---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `ac33a828302b5ea529f61e3734599691`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 29 April 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the life of Army 
Corporal Benjamin Brosh, of the 2nd Battalion, 327th Infantry Regiment, 
1st Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division, out of Fort Campbell, 
KY. Corporal Brosh was killed last week in Balad, Iraq, when a car 
packed with explosives detonated near his position at Forward Operating 
Base Anaconda. He was 22 years old.

Corporal Brosh has roots in Mississippi and Colorado, where his 
mother still lives and where he loved to ski. Those who knew him 
remember his energy, sense of humor, his love for his family, and his 
commitment to the Army and to the soldiers with whom he served.

He entered the Army in 2006, shortly after experiencing and enduring 
the devastation that Hurricane Katrina wrought on his community. The 
storm stirred Benjamin to understand his gift for helping others in 
times of need. Although the storm had badly damaged his own crabbing 
business, which he had built out of his childhood love for fishing, 
Benjamin spent the days and weeks after the storm helping his family 
and friends dig out from the wreckage. ''He just worked like a Trojan, 
and didn't want anything from it,'' recalls a family friend whose home 
Benjamin cleared of mud and debris.

He carried his dreams of helping others into the Army and then to 
Iraq, where, amid the violence of firefights and roadside bombs, he 
remained focused on doing what he could to help ordinary Iraqis rebuild 
their lives. Benjamin's father recalls how much he enjoyed delivering 
soccer balls to Iraqi children and then challenging them to a pickup 
game. In a war zone wrought with confusion and tragedy it is hard to 
imagine a gesture of humanity more powerful than that of an American 
soldier joining with Iraqi kids in a soccer match.

Corporal Brosh's passion for assisting others was matched only by his 
commitment to protecting the soldier next to him. He was a pillar of 
his unit, sustaining his fellow soldiers with his good spirits, 
optimism, and courage. He dispensed advice and encouragement and, 
ultimately, offered his life to protect his unit.

The words we offer to honor Corporal Brosh cannot begin to describe 
the heroism of his daily work or the depth of his character and 
convictions. From his memory, though, we draw a model for service and 
duty to which we can all aspire.

At a 1963 gathering remembering the life of the poet Robert Frost, 
President John F. Kennedy reminded the crowd that, ''A nation reveals 
itself not only by the men it produces, but also by the men it honors, 
the men it remembers.''

Our Nation tends to recognize those men and women of wide acclaim, 
with whose accomplishments we are already familiar. This, however, is a 
time of heroes. Over a million and a half Americans have left their 
families for deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. Benjamin Brosh, a 
young man who learned his power to help others in the wake of Hurricane 
Katrina, gave even more than most. He lent his character, he lent his 
optimism, and he lent his life to his country. If a nation, as 
President Kennedy suggests, reveals itself by the citizens it produces, 
then Corporal Brosh is America at our finest. He is a patriot and a 
hero.

To Benjamin Brosh's parents, James and Barbara, and to all his 
friends and family, our thoughts and prayers are with you. I hope that, 
in time, your grief will be assuaged by the pride you must feel in 
Benjamin's service and by the honor he bestowed upon his country. This 
Nation will never forget him.












 Sergeant David ''DJ'' Stelmat
