# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 1, IMPLEMENTING RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 9/11  COMMISSION ACT OF 2007
## `ac396c85cd5fd933581ecbc7cdeb1daa`
`Mr. GINGREY â€” 27 July 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, as many of my colleagues know, I have been 
working on legislation to temporarily suspend the Visa Waiver Program 
until our ports of entry are secure with the technology outlined and 
required by the 2001 PATRIOT Act and the Visa Entry Reform Act of 2002.

For those who don't know, the Visa Waiver Program was established 
back in 1986 as a temporary program allowing tourists or short-term 
business visitors to enter the United States for 90 days or less 
without obtaining a visa. The program was later made permanent by 
Congress, and it currently includes 27 countries.

The problem with this system is that terrorists are not limited by 
borders, nationality or even ethnicity. A terrorist with a French 
passport can be just as dangerous as one from Iran. In short, we need 
to make sure everyone who enters this country is appropriately 
screened.

This conference report will expand the Visa Waiver Program simply at 
the discretion of the Secretary of State.

Many of us read in the news this summer that the failed London and 
Glasgow bombings are linked to homegrown British terrorists with ties 
to al Qaeda in Iraq. I don't doubt that the United Kingdom is one of 
our closest allies, but this goes to show that even our greatest 
friends can be vulnerable to homegrown terrorists possessing legitimate 
citizenship documentation and authorized legal passports.

Giving terrorists a free pass of any type into our country only 
welcomes more strikes on our homeland, and it strengthens these 
organizations, these terrorist organizations right here in the United 
States. We cannot afford additional visa waiver countries and provide 
more opportunities for terrorists to breach a loophole in our security.

How much time does our Nation have before immigration, customs 
enforcement, our air marshals, the TSA, Transportation Security 
Administration, misses the next Richard Reid.

In closing, this conference report will not secure our Homeland 
Security if it expands the opportunity for terrorists to travel to the 
United States. As a Member of the House Senate Conference Committee, I 
would not sign a report with language expanding this program.

I urge my colleagues, vote down the rule and the underlying 
legislation. Let's send it back to the conference and secure our 
Homeland Security.