# RESTORING AMERICAN FINANCIAL STABILITY ACT OF 2010
## `ac393838b21d549cdc89b7f5a9452887`
`Mr. DODD — 24 May 2010`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, let me begin by saying that Sam Brownback 
and I are good friends. We have a different point of view in this 
matter. But that in no way at all should be reflected in our 
relationship with each other, as we have served together for many 
years. I fundamentally disagree with him about this.

Instructing conferees is an interesting motion in many ways. As we 
will be going to conference with the other body, I will be delighted to 
listen to these various ideas. But this is a matter which does deserve 
to be protected.

First of all, let me say that when it comes to automobile dealers, 
they are no different than community banks or other financial 
institutions; the overwhelming majority are good people and do a good 
job. But we do not pass laws in this country because a majority of the 
people commit crimes. We pass laws for the minority who can abuse their 
relationship with customers or with people. That is no different in 
this particular case at all.

So this is not about whether you like automobile dealers or do not 
like them. The simple question is: The second largest purchase that 
most Americans make is the purchase of an automobile. We do not buy 
stocks. We do not buy fancy institutions and so forth. We buy a home 
and we buy an automobile, and they are expensive undertakings.

So the question is very simply: We have established in our 
legislation, for the first time in the history of our country, a 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that will watch out for the 
average American citizen when it comes to financial practices. We have 
a Consumer Product Safety Commission. We have the Food and Drug 
Administration which protects you against products that you ingest, so 
you have some ability to respond if they do you harm.

If you buy a lawn mower or you buy any other consumer product, we 
have a place you can go to get a recall when that product does injury 
or could do injury to you. Yet we have no place in this country, where 
you can be ruined by a financial product, to get you any redress.

So this legislation, for the first time in our Nation's history, 
establishes a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to watch out for bad 
mortgages, car loans, watch out for other financial activities in which 
the average individual may engage.

As I said, one of the most principal activities that people engage in 
as consumers is the purchase of an automobile. So we are trying to 
protect people. If we are going to say to community banks and to credit 
unions and other financial institutions: You must comply with these 
rules, they will be


enforced at the local level. But you have a community bank on one 
corner, a credit union on the other corner and a car dealer on the 
third corner and all three would like to compete for that business. To 
the credit union and the community bank we say: You have to comply with 
rules that protect consumers. But you, Mr. Auto Dealer over here, you 
do not have to do that. You can go off and do exactly as you want.

That is a mistake and why we have insisted that these provisions 
include automobile dealers. So I rise in opposition to this proposal.

A lot is said in this body about our men and women who serve in 
uniform. We all believe that, just as those heroes stand for us every 
single day, in bodies such as this we ought to stand for them. I wish 
to focus my remarks on what happens to men and women in uniform today 
because it is that constituency alone that ought to be reason to defeat 
this motion.

As we considered financial reform, then, we strove to heed the words 
of groups such as the Military Coalition, a consortium of over 30 
nationally prominent military and veterans organizations, representing 
more than 5.5 million current and former servicemembers and their 
families, including such groups as the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the 
National Guard Association, the Military Officers Association, the 
Military Order of the Purple Heart, and many others.

All these groups have written a letter in which they say, in part: 
The most significant financial obligation for the majority of 
servicemembers is auto financing.

It is also the place where servicemembers are most likely to be taken 
advantage of. Recently, the New York Times reported on one case, that 
of Matthew Garcia, a 25-year-old Army specialist who was recently 
subjected to a trick called yo-yo financing by an unscrupulous car 
dealer, just as he was preparing to deploy for Afghanistan.

According to the story in the press, Specialist Garcia, stationed at 
Fort Hood, TX, bought an automobile at a used car lot, signed up for a 
loan at a 19.9 percent interest rate. That would be bad enough, but 
that is not the worst of it, the high rate of interest. The problem 
came when Specialist Garcia drove the car home.

The dealer called Specialist Garcia several days later to say the 
financing contract had actually fallen through and demanded an 
additional $2,500 in cash from Specialist Garcia. To make sure he paid 
up, the dealer blocked the soldier's car so no one could leave.

That is the way some--a few but some--auto dealers are treating our 
men and women in uniform. It is not enough that I tell you this story 
or one story in the press account. Under Secretary of Defense Stanley--
in fact, my good friend, Senator Brownback, quoted from the letter from 
Clifford Stanley. But listen to the operative sentence in the letter 
from Under Secretary Stanley:




 The Department's position as stated in my letter to 


 Assistant Secretary Barr remains unchanged. The Department of 


 Defense would welcome and encourage the CFPA protections for 


 Servicemembers and their families with regard to unscrupulous 


 automobile sales and financing practices provided such 


 protections would not limit access to legitimate products.


Which they do not at all. So we are hearing from Under Secretary of 
Defense Stanley, in which he says: ''Bait and switch'' financing, 
falsification of loan applications, failure to pay off liens on trade-
in vehicles, ''packing'' loans with items whose price bears little, if 
any, relationship to their real cost, and discriminatory lending are 
the kinds of problems members of our Armed Forces and their families 
face when dealing with financing their cars with car dealers.

In fact, Secretary Stanley reports that 72 percent of military 
counselors and attorneys surveyed had cited problems with auto dealer 
abuses in just the past 6 months alone, 72 percent cited it as a major 
problem. The Department of Defense is telling us that our men and women 
in uniform are at risk of being ripped off, as they are every single 
day.

That is why, of course, we adopted, 98 to 1, by the way, the 
amendment offered by Scott Brown, our colleague from Massachusetts, and 
Jack Reed, our colleague from Rhode Island. That amendment said we must 
have an office of servicemember affairs in the consumer bureau. Why did 
we establish that office there? What is the principal obligation that 
these service men and women get into that causes so much difficulty? It 
is automobiles sales. That is why we put it in.

What an irony it would be that we vote 98 to 1 to say we ought to 
establish that office within the consumer financial bureau and then 
turn around and adopt the Brownback amendment or insist upon it in a 
conference report, which basically exempts every one of these auto 
dealers from having to comply with the consumer protection laws. That 
would be an irony beyond ironies in a way, to on one hand say: We want 
to help you and protect you and then, on the other hand, take away the 
major organizations out there that do the most damage to them.

The Brownback motion would steal away this protection from our Armed 
Forces by creating a loophole for the exact sector of the financial 
services industry in which servicemembers are most vulnerable, and that 
is in auto sales. Let me be clear. All of us have relationships with 
auto dealers. I have a wonderful relationship with the people in my 
State of Connecticut whom I have worked closely with over the years.

All of us support those businesses. As I said at the outset of these 
remarks, the overwhelming majority of them do a good job and do not 
engage in unscrupulous behavior. But the laws are not written for the 
many, they are written for the few out there who do take advantage of 
these young men and women.


As we know from the evidence supplied by our military organizations 
and others who have written, rarely do they ever get involved in a 
matter such as a Banking Committee matter, to have the Under Secretary 
of Defense, the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of the Army, 
the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Order of the Purple Heart, and the 
Officers Association, all of them, 30 organizations saying: Do not do 
this.

Yet we are about to turn around and undo the efforts we have made to 
see to it that these young men and women, whom we all talk about in 
Memorial Day speeches, and so forth--what a great job they do for our 
country, and then turn around, in the one area they get taken to the 
cleaners on day after day, which is in this one particular area, and to 
exempt them entirely from the consideration of the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau.

The community bankers oppose this. The credit unions oppose this as 
well. They want a level playing field. They would like to compete for 
that business. They have to comply with the rules. How can you turn 
around and say to that community bank or that credit union: You have to 
live with these rules, but the guy on the other corner does not have to 
do so. How is that fair when it comes to financing, as I said have 
said, the second largest purchase that anyone would make, that most 
people make in their lives?

So it is unfair, it seems to me, to have two sets of rules for the 
same product. That is what we would be doing if this amendment were 
adopted, and, of course, the conferees were required to insist upon 
supporting language in the House bill. Military leaders such as Michael 
Donley, the Secretary of the Air Force, support this approach because, 
in his words:




 Protection from unprincipled automobile lending enables our 


 Airmen to concentrate on their primary mission--to fly, fight 


 and win in air, space, and cyberspace.


Advocates such as Holly Petraeus, wife of GEN David Petraeus, the 
director of the Better Business program for military families, at a 
press conference, strongly supports the protections we have in this 
bill. They know the hardships military families face and believe it 
should not be compounded by shady lenders.

By the way, it is not just our servicemembers who suffer from lending 
abuse in this sector as well. There is a long and sad history of racial 
discrimination in auto lending. For example, African-American borrowers 
who are charged more than 2.5 times the amount in subjective rate----