---
---

# ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
## `ac4ca519507f4c25ca1bb3e11188a80a`
`Mr. VOINOVICH — 9 November 2009`

---

 Mr. VOINOVICH. Madam President, I wish to recognize the 
promotion of U.S. Army Reserve BG Mark C. Arnold.

On November 14, 2009, Mark Arnold will be promoted to brigadier 
general. He has more than 32 years of military service including time 
served in Afghanistan and Iraq. He was commissioned a distinguished 
military graduate and holds a bachelor of science degree from Ohio 
University, my alma mater, and he also holds a master of business 
administration degree from Cleveland State University.

Brigadier General Arnold began his military career as an infantryman 
and has completed the airborne course, jumpmaster course, pathfinder 
course, air assault course, ranger course, special forces qualification 
course, psychological operations course, civil affairs course, Combined 
Arms Services Staff School, Command and General Staff College, and the 
Army War College where he completed his master of strategic studies.

Brigadier General Arnold is presently assigned as the deputy 
commanding general of the U.S. Army Reserve 81st Regional Support 
Command at Fort Jackson, SC. He is also the president and chief 
executive officer of GSE, which is a $500 million multinational 
manufacturing firm. He has demonstrated that he is a ''Warrior-
Citizen'' who is equally committed to the defense of our great Nation 
and the advancement of his community. I applaud his commitment to 
public service as well as his commitment to his community.

The State of Ohio and all Americans congratulate Brigadier General 
Arnold for his tireless dedicated duty to protect freedom, ensure 
liberty, and defend the principles of the United States. Leaders like 
Brigadier General Arnold will ensure the United States will continue to 
prosper as the world's greatest Nation.

I want to extend congratulations and my sincere regards and best 
wishes to Brigadier General Arnold and his family in honor of his 
promotion.
