---
---

# None
## `ac537c090f6fb8d4f0350df0015eba6f`
`Ms. STABENOW — 16 September 2008`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, I come to the floor, as many of my 
colleagues have on this side of the aisle, to express my outrage and my 
amazement at the continued comments of one of our colleagues, who is 
not here but is running for President, Senator John McCain, when even 
as Wall Street now is crumbling--we have seen the actions of the last 
couple days--he continues to say the fundamentals of the economy are 
strong. No matter what caveats he puts on it, he says the fundamentals 
of the economy are strong. That shows how out of touch he is, as is the 
President whom he works with, George Bush, and those who support this 
view that the fundamentals of the economy are strong.

I remember a while back coming to the floor after comments were made, 
as well, about at that time the chief economic adviser for Senator 
McCain. Even though this person has now stepped down--also a former 
colleague--from that position, we know he is still very close to 
Senator McCain and is involved in his efforts and so on. That is 
Senator Phil Gramm, whom I served with on the Banking Committee. He was 
the chairman of the committee when I was first taking my place in the 
Senate. To hear Senator Phil Gramm, who worked so closely with Senator 
McCain--we assume, based on their long relationship and the positive 
things Senator McCain has said, that he would play a major role in a 
new administration under John McCain, and he has said as well, in 
addition to Senator McCain repeating that the fundamentals of the 
economy are strong, we also remember former Senator Phil Gramm's 
comment that this is just a psychological recession; it is all in our 
minds. He said it is psychological and Americans have become a nation 
of whiners--a nation of whiners.

I am wondering if people made it up or if they were hallucinating 
when they lost their jobs this year; 605,000 Americans have lost good-
paying jobs this year, since this past January. Were they 
hallucinating? Was this a figment of their imagination? Is it a figment 
of their imagination that they cannot make their mortgage payment or 
put food on the table or pay their electric bill or go to the gas pump 
and be able to refuel with outrageously high gas prices? Of course 
not. Of course not.


We have seen the economy unfolding in a way so that only those who 
are very wealthy, who have the ability to take their capital anywhere 
in the world, can succeed under this philosophy that has been in place, 
this Republican philosophy of no accountability, no transparency, no 
one watching in the public interest as people have made decisions that 
have undermined pensions of working people. Heaven forbid, can you 
imagine if Lehman Brothers had been managing Social Security payments 
for millions of senior citizens, which is, by the way, something else 
Senator McCain wishes to see happen, privatizing Social Security.

What we have seen is an undermining of the fundamentals of what has 
been the strength of our economy--good jobs, not just supply, but 
supply and demand, putting money in people's pockets so they can afford 
to take care of their families and keep the economy going.

In addition to 605,000 people who have lost their jobs since the 
beginning of this year, we had 3.5 million manufacturing jobs lost, and 
counting, since 2001, since President Bush came into office. Madam 
President, 3.5 million people were not hallucinating. It was not a 
figment of their imagination that they lost their job and that their 
families have been put into a tailspin as they are now trying to figure 
out where they go from here to try to keep some semblance of the 
American dream.

The fundamentals of the economy are strong, says Senator John McCain. 
We are, in fact, looking at an example of what it means to live under a 
philosophy of President Bush, John McCain, and the Republicans, and 
what actually happens if their philosophy comes into being, in terms of 
actions.

For the first time, in the time I can remember, we saw from 2001 
until 18 months ago a time when the House, the Senate, and the 
Presidency were all in the hands of the same party. We had a chance to 
see what they believe in, what are their values, what are their 
philosophies.

What we have seen is a philosophy that has raised greed to a national 
virtue, that has viewed public regulation and accountability in the 
public interest, to protect public resources or public funds, as 
something to be scoffed at and to be unwound, to deregulate, to make 
sure that the areas of Government that have responsibility, that are 
accountable for our financial systems, our monetary systems, our energy 
resources and other areas, in fact, are not held accountable.

We have seen an administration and a Republican philosophy that 
doesn't work for the majority of Americans. It works for a few. If you 
are one of the folks who is out there trying to make sure you can make 
as much money as possible for yourself and your friends, you may have 
done pretty well. But there has been no willingness to understand the 
consequences for the majority of Americans or to accept any 
responsibility to make sure that the majority of Americans can benefit 
from the resources and opportunities and wealth of this great country.

This culture of greed and corruption, supported by Senator McCain and 
President Bush and others for 6 years running, has led to Enron. I 
remember having people sitting in my office who had everything in their 
company's pension. They worked for Enron. They lost it all. They lost 
it all because of the schemes and the lack of accountability and 
oversight. They lost everything in their pension plans and they sat in 
my office and said: Thank goodness for Social Security because that is 
all I have left.

The same folks who gave us the Enron debacle want to privatize Social 
Security, including John McCain. No-bid contracts, such as Halliburton 
in Iraq; continual tax cuts only for the wealthiest Americans; weak 
oversight of public industries, regulated industries, regulated in the 
public interest; a disregard for the Constitution; and now the latest 
economic crisis we see.

Fundamentally, the question is: Who are we as a country and do we 
want to continue these failed philosophies? That is not by accident. I 
suggest this is the result of a world view, a set of values and 
philosophies that does not put the majority of Americans and our 
country first, but basically puts in place the idea that greed is good 
and you should make it while you can, and we are going to make sure we 
strip away any public protections so your ability is unfettered to do 
what you want to do for yourself as opposed to what needs to be done on 
behalf of the American people.

If we don't have a change in this country, we are going to see the 
same failed blueprint with more of the same failed results, disastrous 
results. That is why I believe so strongly we need a change in 
direction and a change of values to put the American people first.

Again, our colleague, Senator McCain, who has said that the 
fundamentals of the economy are strong, has worked to deregulate 
markets, has called himself a deregulator. Unfortunately, it is those 
policies that have gotten us to where we are today.

This is the most serious financial crisis since the Great Depression. 
And what is the plan at this point? To study the problem. Senator 
McCain has said today we should study the problem.

We don't need another commission. What we need are people who will 
make sure that the accountability, the oversight, the power that is 
here to stop price gouging, to bring oversight to what is going on is 
actually used. It hasn't been used under this administration. For 6 of 
the last 7/1/2/ years there was every effort, in fact, to pull back on 
who was put on boards and commissions, the regulators, the overseers. 
They essentially were made up of people who didn't believe in the 
mission, who didn't believe they were there for the public interest.

Right now we have a situation where there are 84,000 Americans who 
lost their jobs last month, 90,000 Americans who lost their homes last 
month. They don't want another study. They don't want another 
commission. They want leaders who get it. They want leaders who 
understand their role in this Government of ours, this public trust we 
have, not on behalf of just ourselves and our friends but on behalf of 
everybody in this country, to make sure the rules are fair, that they 
are followed,


and that everybody has a chance to make it. That is what it is supposed 
to be about.

I am also reminded that Senator McCain has chaired the Commerce 
Committee and oversaw a massive deregulation scheme that gutted our 
oversight of these markets. Where is the accountability? Instead of 
protecting consumers and preventing abuse, the special interests ruled. 
And Chairman McCain oversaw that effort.

The same economic philosophy of the Bush administration joined by 
Senator McCain for the last 8 years has been to give more and more to 
those who have the most, ignore the ability of others to make sure they 
can have what they have earned--their job, their pension, that Social 
Security is strong, they can afford to put food on the table and pay 
for the gas and be able to have what we all expect as Americans that 
will be available to us if we work hard and follow the rules.


We have had the same philosophy in place, the same philosophy that 
has brought us 8 straight months of job loss, the same economic 
philosophy that has left incomes stagnant while families find 
themselves spending twice as much on the basics of their life.

Real household income is down. Imagine, we were lower in 2007 than in 
the year 2000. Incomes were lower in 2007 than they were in 2000. We 
are in a generation of having real concerns, and rightly so, that our 
children's lives and economic circumstances will not be as good as our 
own.

The same philosophy has led to gasoline inching upwards to $5 a 
gallon, and the same economic philosophy that leaves 47 million people 
without health insurance, leaving them worried about whether their 
children will be cared for when they are sick. The same philosophy has 
been in place since 2001 with this President with 6 years of no balance 
and accountability, just one world view, 18 months of our coming in now 
and slowing the trend down, working hard to bring in some 
accountability, even though there are unprecedented Republican 
filibusters to stop us.

But we have seen a philosophy that has failed. We need to be taking 
actions to stop the fraudulent, risky, and abusive lending practices, 
and that has been proposed over and over again. I commend Chairman Dodd 
of the Banking Committee and Chairman Baucus of the Finance Committee 
and all those who have brought forward proposals that will make a 
difference.

We need to modernize the rules for a 21st century marketplace that 
will protect American investors and consumers. We have been proposing 
those changes. We also know we have in place a series of mechanisms 
that would hold special interests accountable and be able to make sure 
that people's incomes and pensions and the economy in general are 
protected. We just haven't used it.

I stand with another colleague of ours, Senator Barack Obama, who has 
said if you borrow from the Government, you should be regulated. There 
should be public accountability, transparency, if you are borrowing 
from the Government. If we want to stop abuses of the public trust, we 
need to have openness, we need to know what is going on in the markets, 
we need to know what is going on. If we want to protect the American 
people, we need to regulate dangerous practices, such as predatory 
lending.

We know there is so much that we need to do right now. First is to 
address the hole we are in economically, and the next is to stop 
digging, stop making it worse. Stop tax breaks for those who have 
already done so well, even in these terrible circumstances. We need to 
make sure we are focusing on those who have worked so hard all their 
lives, and their families who are looking for the opportunity to be 
successful in America. They want to know they are going to have a fair 
chance to do that, that the rules are going to be fair, they are not 
going to be stacked against them and in the interest of a special few, 
which is what has been happening since 2001 over and over.

Let me go back to my original comment and look at the 3.5 million 
manufacturing jobs lost since 2001. Our colleague, John McCain, says 
the fundamentals of the economy are strong. I beg to differ. The 
fundamentals of the economy for Americans working hard every day making 
a paycheck, trying to make ends meet, worrying about whether they are 
going to have a job, health care, send the kids to college, put food on 
the table, pay for the gas and all the other things, for them the 
economy is not strong.

People are working too hard, making too little, and paying too much 
every day, and we do not need another study or another commission. We 
need leaders who get it, who have the right values, who understand, who 
have the intestinal fortitude to stand up and fight for the American 
people, the middle-class families who are sick and tired of what has 
been going on.

I can tell you, coming from the great State of Michigan, the people 
of Michigan have had enough. We have had enough. We can't take more of 
this. We can't take 4 more years of this. We can't take 4 more days of 
this. We have had enough. But to change it, I believe strongly that we 
need to understand this is not just an accident that we are where we 
are. It is a conscious philosophy. It is actions and inactions that 
have been taken by those in charge--by this President, supported by 
Senator John McCain, supported by Republicans in the House and the 
Senate--that have created the situation that has fostered the 
circumstances in which we find ourselves.

We can't do this anymore. We need to make sure government works for 
real people, real people who have had enough. I can't say it more 
strongly: We have to stop traveling down the road we are on, following 
this philosophy that has run us into extremely dangerous economic 
territory.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.