---
---

# None
## `ac5f32b68cde2f2daa1fa8994f053315`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS — 19 July 2007`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today not only as a Member of this 
body, but particularly as a member of the House Committee on Foreign 
Affairs and as cochair on the Congressional Caucus on Hellenic Issues.

I stand before you today to recall an anniversary that has racked the 
Cypriot and Hellenic communities for the past 33 years. Mr. Speaker, 
even though the tragic events of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus took 
place so long ago, the pain and suffering of this tragic occasion still 
ripples throughout the Greek and Cypriot communities.

This anniversary is a time for America to solemnly remember the 
Turkish military invasion of the Island of Cyprus, to mourn those who 
lost their lives, and to condemn the continued occupation.

On July 20, 1974, in blatant violation of international law, Turkey 
violently invaded Cyprus and captured the northern part of the island. 
As a result of the invasion, approximately 5,000 Cypriots were killed 
and more than 1,400 Greek Cypriots, including four Americans of Cypriot 
descent, are still missing.

Since the invasion, Turkey has established a heavily armed military 
occupation that continues to control nearly 40 percent of Cyprus. 
Forced expulsions of Greek Cypriots on the occupied land have left more 
than 160,000 displaced persons.

Another tragic result of this 33-year occupation is the division of 
the Greek and Turkish Cypriots who since have forcibly left their 
homes. This cracking of the Cypriot Nation is a crime against society 
and the people of Cyprus that can only be resolved by ending this 
occupation.

Since the invasion, international governing bodies and human rights 
groups have condemned Turkey's flagrant abuse of international law and 
violation of Cyprus's national sovereignty.

Mr. Speaker, 33 years is just too long. The international community 
has helped shepherd a peace process and settlement that will unite the 
island, its people, institutions and economy. The United Nations 
Security Council, the European Union and the United States have all 
played key roles in trying to bring a practical and fair resolution of 
this 33-year nightmare.

On the occasion of this anniversary, America needs to take a long and 
hard look at its own commitment toward helping the Turkish Cypriot 
crisis reach a lasting and enduring peace, free from occupation, 
division and oppression.

As a new member of the European Union, the Republic of Cyprus has 
proven a committed and influential partner in Europe. Despite having a 
large portion of its land illegally occupied, Cyprus's successful 
social and economic integration into the European Community is a 
testament to its


focus and dedication to democratic values and regional cooperation.

The Republic of Cyprus has also worked alongside its European 
neighbors to bring about a stronger integration of Turkish and Greek 
Cypriot interests for the good of the island. This has included a 
partial lifting on restriction of movement across the ceasefire line 
that continues to forcibly divide Cyprus. As a result, since April of 
2003, more than 13 million Greek and Turkish Cypriots have crossed 
without incident. Incredible. Additionally, the per capita income of 
Turkish Cypriots has nearly tripled in the last 3 years because of an 
aggressive integration policy by the Republic of Cyprus and its 
European neighbors.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that because of this continued integration 
between Turkish and Greek Cypriots, and the economic and political 
successes that the Republic of Cyprus so readily wants to share with 
its neighbors, it is possible to bring closure to this 33-year 
occupation.

Indeed, on July 8, 2006, the President of the Republic of Cyprus, 
Tassos Papadopoulos, and Turkish Cypriot leader Mehmet Ali Talat agreed 
to formally begin consultations with the ultimate aim of a peaceful 
reunification and an end to Turkey's military occupation.

Despite the early successes of what has since been known as the 
''July 8th Agreement'' and the best efforts of the Cyprus government, 
the Turkish Cypriots have not followed through on their commitment to 
continue this dialogue and a path to peace.

Let's resolve this issue, Mr. Speaker. Thirty-three years is too 
long.

In fact, Mr. Speaker, only last week, President Papadopoulos 
attempted to jumpstart the Island's reunification efforts and resume 
the July 8 Agreement process. Though he initially accepted this 
gesture, Turkish Cypriot leader Talat ended up cancelling the proposed 
meeting.

Mr. Speaker, the United States, and this Congress, should demonstrate 
its commitment and support for the July 8 Agreement as a way toward 
ending the Turkish-Cypriot divide on the Island of Cyprus. I have 
introduced legislation, H. Res. 405, which expresses strong support for 
the implementation of the July 8 Agreement.

I urge all of my colleagues to act and help this body put our own 
stamp of support on the July 8 process by supporting this resolution.

Cyprus has long been a strong and faithful ally of the United States. 
It continues to work with us in the Global War on Terrorism and has 
supported our efforts in both Afghanistan and Iraq.

Aside from providing overflight rights and port access, the 
government of Cyprus has joined only a handful of nations who have 
acted on their commitment to cancel Iraq's outstanding debt.

Mr. Speaker, 33 years is long enough. It is not impossible to 
conceive one-day having a Cyprus that is unified under bizonal, bi-
communal federation with a single sovereignty, single international 
personality and single citizenship with respect for human rights. and 
fundamental freedoms for all Cypriots.

America, a friend of the Cypriot people, owes it to them to do 
everything in their power to support peace and an end to this illegal 
occupation.
