---
---

# None
## `ac710d6b825c5b41f52dac8307a4087b`
`Mr. AUSTRIA — 31 March 2009`

---


Mr. AUSTRIA. I thank the gentleman from Utah. I thank you for the 
great work you are doing for the State of Utah and our country as a 
freshman. Thank you for putting this on today.

I want to thank my other colleague from California. Thank you for 
your service to our country. Thank you for putting things in 
perspective for our military.

And I want to add one thing. We had an opportunity to change some of 
this budget, and another freshman--it seems like the freshmen now are 
taking the lead role on some of this stuff, which is good--Congressman 
Harper from Mississippi and myself cosponsored an amendment in the 
budget that would put the troops' increase, their pay increase where it 
should be at 3.4 percent where it has been lowered and marked down in 
this budget to 2.9, which is the minimal amount required by statute.

When we have troops that are now fighting in two wars, we're 
increasing the number of troops in Afghanistan--I have had an 
opportunity, I represent the largest single site employer in the State 
of Ohio Wright Patterson Air Force Base. I have four military 
facilities in my district. I have had an opportunity to attend a number 
of deployments for men and women in the military. And I have to say, 
they are the greatest people I have had an opportunity to meet, and I 
would go so far as to say it's the next greatest generation that's 
serving our country today.



And when these--we're asking these men and women to serve and the 
deployments are lengthier than what was expected, more often than what 
was expected. There are tremendous sacrifices that are being made by 
their families, by our troops. I think that the least we can do in this 
budget is not cut what was expected as far as their pay but give them 
the increase that they deserve, and in my opinion earned. They are 
doing a spectacular job in protecting us, and we thank them for their 
sacrifices to protect our freedom.

But unfortunately, that amendment was shot down and was voted down in 
Budget by the other side of the aisle. And so we had an opportunity to 
try to fix some of that, and we didn't do that in the Budget Committee, 
and I hope that we can get our priorities straight on that.

Let me build off of my colleague from Utah. Let me talk about Ohio 
because you two are out west and some of the things that you talked 
about--the difficult times that small businesses are going through, 
families are going through out west--we are experiencing these things 
in the midwest.

I represent the State of Ohio, the heart of the midwest. And I can 
tell you we have over 900,000 small businesses in the State of Ohio. 
And within the last few weeks, in particular, our phones in the 
district offices have been ringing. Business have been calling us, 
families have been calling us. They are going through very difficult 
times right now. They are making sacrifices for our country. Small 
businesses are calling us, and they are having difficulty getting the 
financing, the credit that they need to be able to meet their payroll, 
to be able to save the jobs that are out there, much less create new 
jobs and sustain those jobs in the long term.

The Bob Johnsons that you just talked about. We have a lot of Bob 
Johnsons, those types of businesses in Ohio, and they are the economic 
engine of our State and this country. As you mentioned, they create 60 
to 80 percent of the jobs across this country. And I think here in 
Congress we can do better.

As freshmen, we've been in Congress now for less than 100 days, and 
we have been faced with a $700 billion TARP financial market bailout 
that has not worked, in my opinion. It has been a disaster because 
there's been no--there hasn't been the accountability needed, there 
hasn't been the transparency as to how that money has been in place. 
There is no plan in place.

The Treasury Department did not have a plan in place. We had 
Secretary Geithner come into the Budget Committee, and we asked him 
about the financial bailout, the market bailout. And he could not give 
us specific answers as to how the money that has been spent has been 
spent and how their plans on the future dollars on how they were going 
to be spent.

And then we had the stimulus package, $791 billion spending package, 
I call it, $1.1 trillion over the next 10 years of taxpayers' dollars. 
In that stimulus package was a paragraph in there on a bill that not 
one Member of Congress had an opportunity to read completely before we 
voted on that, said, You know what? We can now take your tax dollars, 
we can use it as a bailout, give it to a company like AIG, and they can 
pay out $165 million in bonuses, 73 of those being over $1-million 
bonuses. One lucky guy got a $1.64 million bonus, and twelve of them 
don't even work for the company.

These are hardworking American taxpayers' dollars that are paying out 
these bonuses. As the public begins to understand what is happening 
here in D.C., they are outraged. They are outraged by this stuff, and 
it shouldn't be happening. We can do better than that.

Now we have a $3.9 trillion budget before us. And guess what is in 
this budget? We're now going to tell you how we're going to pay for the 
historical amount of debt that we just built up. We're going to start 
taxing the American people.

In this bill, there is nearly a $2 trillion tax hike over the next 
decade: $2 trillion of taxes. That's going to further weaken America's 
prospects with sustained economic growth and job creation well into the 
future. And let me tell you who's going to be paying for this. It is 
going to be many of our small business owners that are struggling to 
make paycheck to paycheck, that are struggling to not just save jobs 
but create jobs and be able to sustain those jobs. Now they know they 
have a tax increase coming at them. I mean, is that how we're going to 
expand and create new jobs?

American families, 95 to 100 percent of the American families across 
this country, we're now going to hit you with higher costs on energy, 
taxes. This little thing that's stuck in the budget--and I appreciate 
your chart up there because I think it helps put things in perspective 
as to how we're paying for this debt. We're going to stick this 
proposal in there that's cap-and-trade. It sounds harmless. It is not 
harmless. We're talking about $629 billion of tax increases on 
families, families that are making sacrifices right now that are 
struggling to make it paycheck to paycheck.

Anyone who uses natural gas, who turns on your light switch, who uses 
electricity, heats their home, fills up their gasoline tank, you know 
what we're going to do now in this budget we're going to raise the cost 
of energy on you for the average American family of about $1,600 per 
household.

So everybody's electricity rates--anybody that uses any type of 
CO2 or carbon, your energy costs are now going up.

And then this tax is also--this is what worries me in Ohio because we 
have a lot of manufacturing in Ohio. It's the number one industry with 
agriculture. It's going to further erode the job growth in the U.S. 
manufacturing sector. It's going to put American companies at an even 
greater competitive disadvantage with China and other companies--or 
other countries. I apologize. It's late tonight.

And this is what is supposed to be turning our economy around 
creating jobs, this cap-and-trade proposal, which should be called a 
cap-and-tax proposal. We can do better. We should be doing better. And 
let me tell you, the reality is that all of this infusion of spending 
in government and expanding government, the reality is we are serving 
our constituents in our district, and we have constituents that are out 
there that are asking for our help right now. They don't know where to 
go. This is not good for them. They can't get the financing, they can't 
get the credit to help save and create new jobs. And we can do better. 
We should be targeted on our small businesses, on those families that 
are struggling.


And I know both in your States, Utah and California, and across this 
country, they are going through the same thing.

So I thank the gentleman for yielding. I will yield back. I know 
you've been wanting to jump in on this.