---
---

# None
## `ac8e46f8940bc4d64d359786440c6c7a`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, as we take up the issue of Iraq once 
again, the question that should be foremost in our minds is this: Has 
the situation improved since the Petraeus plan was put into place? And 
if so, if the terrorists who have been murdering coalition and Iraqi 
soldiers and civilians there for years are now seriously wounded and on 
the run, as we are told they are, then the obvious followup question is 
this: How do we ensure that the progress not only continues but 
actually lasts?

Our friends on the other side never seem to let the facts get in the 
way of their proposals for securing Iraq. When the President announced 
a new counterinsurgency strategy last year, many of them said it would 
not work. Even the plan's most vocal critics voted to confirm the 
general who would carry it out. The junior Senator from Illinois 
embodied this approach when he predicted: The President's strategy will 
not work, and then cast a vote confirming General Petraeus for the job. 
Then, when General Petraeus returned from Iraq to report that the 
strategy was bearing fruit, some of our friends on the other side 
covered their ears and questioned his integrity.

The junior Senator from New York embodied this view when she said the 
general's report required ''a willing suspension of disbelief,'' then 
voted against a resolution that condemned an ad accusing him of lies. 
And now, after months of positive reports on improved safety and even 
important political progress, some of our friends on the other side 
once again want to cut funding for the troops.

In the words of the first Feingold bill that we might be voting on, 
they want to ''promptly transition the mission.'' They want to tear up 
the Petraeus plan and cut off funds for the very troops who are 
carrying it out.

The second Feingold bill is just as odd. It would require the Bush 
administration, now in its final months, to set out a new global 
strategy for fighting terrorism even as our military fights the 
terrorists neighborhood by neighborhood in Iraq and even as 
congressional Democrats continue to block a bipartisan surveillance 
bill that we know would improve our ability to disrupt terrorist plots. 
The second Feingold bill would also require reducing the pace of 
deployments and an increase in overall military readiness. This would 
mean not only full funding for the Defense Department but also 
directing an even greater share of the Nation's resources to defense--
something the junior Senator from Wisconsin has not been known to 
champion in the past.

In other words, the second Feingold bill claims to advance an 
effective antiterrorist program even though the first one attempts to 
block a counterinsurgency plan that even early critics of the war are 
now calling a success. It calls for a new strategy against al-Qaida 
even while Democrats in the House block one of the most effective tools 
we have in the fight against al-Qaida.

All of which leads me to wonder, what possible deduction of reason 
has prompted our friends on the other side to believe either of these 
bills is a good idea? We already know what will happen to the first 
bill. Last year, we overwhelmingly rejected it--not just once but four 
times. It never achieved more than 29 votes. And that was before the 
success of the Petraeus plan.

But given what has happened since then, the proposal to cut funds, to 
scrap the Petraeus plan, makes even less sense today. Just consider 
what has taken place in Iraq over the last year.

Since the implementation of the Petraeus plan, violence in Iraq has 
fallen dramatically. Over the past year, civilian deaths are one-sixth 
of what they were in November of 2006. High-profile bombings are down 
by two-thirds since June. The discovery and seizure of guns and other 
weapons caches has more than doubled nationally and tripled in Anbar. 
The worst kind of violence is dramatically down. Ethno-sectarian 
conflict--the fighting has fallen from a peak of about 1,100 incidents 
in December of 2006 to about 100 such incidents this past November. 
That is less than 1 year. Locals are energized about fighting back 
against terrorists, with between 70,000 and 100,000 ordinary citizens 
stepping forward to help local police root out terrorists. And the 
terrorists themselves are becoming demoralized, with even those who 
share their religious beliefs driving them into hiding.

This kind of progress is changing minds. One harsh early critic of 
the war, Anthony Cordesman, recently visited Iraq, looked at the new 
data, and came to a different conclusion.

Here is what Anthony Cordesman says now:




 No one can spend 10 days visiting the battlefields in Iraq 


 without seeing major progress in every area. If the U.S. 


 provides sustained support to the Iraqi Government, in 


 security, governance, and development, there is now a very 


 real chance that Iraq will emerge as a secure and stable 


 state.


A very real chance that Iraq will emerge as a secure and stable 
state. These are the words of a man whose judgment our friends on the 
other side were appealing to just last year in arguing for withdrawal. 
Last July, the junior Senator from New Jersey, speaking on the Senate 
floor, cited the opinion of Mr. Cordesman before declaring: Mr. 
President, it is over; your


failed strategy, your ill-conceived war must come to an end before more 
damage is done.

All of this reminds me of something we saw last summer after the New 
York Times ran an op-ed by two early critics of the war who had begun 
to change their views on the Petraeus plan once those views became 
inconsistent with the facts on the ground. About a week after the piece 
appeared in print, the senior Senator from Illinois concurred with its 
central point, after early and outspoken opposition to the Petraeus 
plan.




 More American troops have brought more peace to more parts 


 of Iraq. I think that is a fact.


Yet, since those comments, violence in Iraq has gone down even more, 
and the kind of political progress the authors of that New York Times 
piece were hoping for is finally taking place.

A provincial powers law passed, with elections set to take place 
sometime before October. The Iraqi Parliament passed a partial amnesty 
law for prisoners--a sign of thawing relations between the Sunnis, who 
make up most of the prison population, and the majority Shias. The 
Iraqi Parliament has also approved a national budget that allocated 
Government revenue, most of it from oil, out to the provinces.

To most people, the lesson of the last year is obvious: Coalition 
forces are winning this fight, and they deserve our full support and 
our thanks. The response from most of us has been a mix of pride and 
new confidence, especially now that some concrete political progress is 
being made. For others, however, the lesson to be drawn from success is 
the same as it was when we faced the strongest adversity: Cut the 
funds, withdraw the troops, and leave Iraq to the terrorists. 
Fortunately, most of the Senate will reject this view when we defeat 
the Feingold bills, hopefully for the last time.

I yield the floor.