# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `ac9921a1aee066fb029be1a992405546`
`Mr. AKIN — 4 February 2010`

---


Mr. AKIN. Madam Speaker, in accordance with House Republican 
Conference standards, and Clause 9 of Rule XXI, I submit the following 
member requests for the Record regarding the conference report on H.R. 
3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2010.

Project: Adaptive-Defense HIPPIE (High-speed Internet Protocol Packet 
Inspection Engine) on a Chip.

Account: Department of Defense, Army, RDT&E

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: TechGuard Security, LLC

Address of Requesting Entity: 743 Spirit 40 Park Drive, Chesterfield, 
MO 63005

Description of Request: Provide $1,004,000 to enhance the Army's 
Cyber Security. This project puts the rapid and power-conserving High-
speed Internet Protocol Packet Inspection Engine's (HIPPIE) security 
capability on a silicon chip. This funding will allow for development 
of a Nano-power supply and a nano-memory capability. It will enhance 
the coalition warrior and the U.S. Warfighter's communication security 
and access control through discreet deployment with secure remote-
controlled chip-level destruction in the event a device is compromised. 
This enhanced capability at the chip-level allows for deployment 
directly into the hands of the warfighter engaged in traditional and 
irregular warfare.

Project: Aircrew Body Armor and Load Carriage Vest System

Account: Other Procurement--U.S. Air Force

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Eagle Industries.

Address of Requesting Entity: 1000 Biltmore Drive, Fenton, MO 63026

Description of Request: To provide $2,400,000 to issue the Aircrew 
Body Armor Load Carriage Vest System, an integrated body armor vest 
system, to aircrew personnel. The system provides fire retardancy and 
ballistics protection from a wide array of threats including small arms 
fire, fragmenting shrapnel and spall, while decreasing the heat stress 
and weight burdens faced by airmen. Currently issued aircrew flight 
equipment survival vests are not body armor-compatible due to weight, 
heat, and survivability concerns. Current issue is not fire retardant 
and fails to meet the present needs of the U.S. Air Force. Of the $3 
million, approximately 25 percent is for materials; 25 percent is for 
labor; and 50 percent is for armor and armor integration.

This request is consistent with the intended and authorized purpose 
of the U.S. Air Force--Other Procurement account. If funded in full, 
this is a one-time funding request with the goal of the Air Force using 
internally budgeted funding to continue fielding the system to aircrew 
personnel.

Project: Air Filtrations Systems for Helicopters

Account: Department of Defense, Army, Aircraft Modifications

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Aerospace Filtration Systems, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4 Research Park Dr, Suite 200, St. 
Charles, MO, USA

Description of Request: To provide $800,000 to install barrier 
filtration systems on National Guard aircraft. This request would allow 
the National Guard to obtain dramatic savings by reducing engine 
replacements and thus maintenance, keeping overall engine performance 
from being reduced due to erosion and Foreign Object damage (FOD), and 
increasing readiness rates of the ARNG fleet. The earmark will address 
a portion of the ARNG fleet to include: AH-64A APU Barrier Filter--32 
Aircraft, AH-64D APU Barrier Filter--48 Aircraft, CH-47 APU Barrier 
Filter--80 Aircraft, and OH-58A/C Engine Barrier Filter--50 Aircraft.

AFS Barrier Filtration Systems capture 99 percent of the dirt and 
debris that would otherwise enter the engine or APU and cause a 
significant loss of performance. This prevents engines/APU's from being 
removed from the aircraft for costly maintenance or overhaul. Engine 
overhaul costs could cost as much as $300,000 on one engine. By 
extending the life of the engine/APU up to 11 times, the savings from 
one installation kit could be as high as $6.6M on one AH-64 helicopter 
alone. AFS barrier Filters in use by the U.S. Army in the deserts of 
Iraq and Afghanistan have been proven extremely effective. These kits 
have allowed engines to reach TBO and have been a major part of 
unprecedented readiness rates for the aircraft fleets.

Project: Backpack Medical Oxygen System (BMOS)

Account: Department of Defense, Air Force, RDT&E

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Essex Cryogenics of Missouri Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 8007 Chivvis Drive St. Louis, MO 63123-
2395

Description of Request: To provide $800,000 for improving Air Force 
oxygen generation technology for emergency field medical rescues. With 
modification, the Backpack Medical Oxygen System (BMOS) is the system 
that satisfies the USAF Requirement for a small deployable oxygen 
generator system. This spiral development program for the BMOS system 
will significantly decrease the time and funds required to field 
critical capabilities needed today by our warfighters. The U.S. Air 
Force requirement for oxygen is a minimum of 93 percent pure oxygen at 
6 liters per minute for critically injured personnel and the BMOS 
satisfies that requirement.

Project: Hyperspectral Imaging for Improved Force Protection (HYPER-
IFP)

Account: Department of Defense, Army, RDT&E, (CERDEC, NVESD, Special 
Projects)

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Clean Earth Technologies, LLC.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13378 Lakefront Drive, Earth City, MO, 
USA

Description of Request: To provide $1,600,000 for the Hyper-IFP 
(Hyper spectral Sensor for Improved Force Protection) Program. The 
introduction of a Hyper-IFP in FY08 is allowing the detection and 
recognition of humans (with a near zero false alarm rate) and providing 
indication of other certain physiological triggers that can indicate 
that a person is under extreme stress such as contemplating ''bad'' 
behavior. To date successful development, test and evaluation has been 
done in the lab, though these systems have not been fully optimized for 
theatre operation or for costs. The continued funding of Hyper-IFP will 
operationalize and integrate the knowledge


gain in the lab and apply it in a true-fielded application at an 
affordable cost. The Hyper-IFP system will also be environmentally 
hardened to allow field deployment and allow integration with other FP 
sensors in the last quarter of 2009. Hyper-IFP is focused on the 
missions of Perimeter Security, Suicide Bomb Detection and Urban Route 
Recon. Utility will be demonstrated through an evaluation in both the 
Southwest border and contingency mission in Southwest Asia. This effort 
will require leveraging the current Force Protection sensor suite 
designs for the missions cites to maintain interoperability. In the 
end, this request focuses on both achieving data verification, and the 
delivery of sufficient hardware to validate the Technical Data package 
for re-procurement as well as demonstrate the system's ability to 
deploy to DoD/DHS users for the missions described. The Night Vision 
Electronic Sensors Directorate, Ft. Belvoir Virginia, is very 
supportive of this project.
