# BIPARTISAN COUNTERTERRORISM EFFORTS
## `ac9d75b8c284323e7b87af38b8896f9d`
`Mr. WOLF — 13 January 2010`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, earlier this week, the co-chairs of the 9/11 
Commission, Lee Hamilton and Thomas Kean, in an op-ed for the USA 
Today, wrote that ''national security is too important to become a 
partisan issue.'' And I could not agree more.

That is why I wrote President Obama yesterday with three specific 
actions that I recommended he could take immediately, with strong 
bipartisanship support, to help prevent future terrorist attacks 
against America. First, I recommended that he immediately bring back 
the two co-chairs of the 9/11 Commission for a six-month period to 
conduct a formal review and follow-up to the 9/11 report. Mr. Hamilton 
and Mr. Kean would be charged with evaluating which of the commission's 
original recommendations have been implemented and to what end, and 
which have failed to be implemented and at what cost.

Second, I urged the creation of a Team B concept, separate from the 
review that would be conducted by the 9/11 Commission co-chairs. 
Historically, the phrase Team B refers to a group of outside experts 
brought together to analyze the threats posed by the Soviet Union to 
the United States and counter the positions of intelligence officials 
within the CIA and government, known as Team A. The Team B concept has 
been successful in previous administrations when fresh eyes were needed 
to provide the commander in chief with objective information to make 
informed policy decisions. I believe it can work now.

Third, I urged the President to support the legislation that I 
introduced today to establish a 10-year term of office for the 
administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, TSA, 
similar to what the Congress has done in the past for the appointment 
process for the director of the FBI. Bob Mueller has done an 
outstanding job, and that process has worked well.

Since TSA's creation following 9/11, TSA has had six administrators, 
six, averaging terms of just 1.5 years. The attempted Christmas Day 
bombing of a U.S. airliner points to the need for long-term, strong, 
and capable leadership that is outside of the political process.

In a separate letter to Deputy National Security Adviser John 
Brennan, I posed a series of pointed questions concerning the security 
situation in Yemen and the circumstances surrounding the failed 
Christmas Day attack. Specifically, I asked the administration how it 
plans to deal with the possible radicalization of some 55,000 
Americans, 55,000 Americans that are currently visiting, living, or 
studying in Yemen, pointing out that these individuals can fly back to 
the United States with American passports.

The dangers of radicalization in Yemen are very troubling. The 
alleged Fort Hood terrorist, Major Nidal Hasan was radicalized by 
Yemeni-American cleric Anwar al Aulaqi. The alleged terrorist who 
killed a U.S. Army recruiter in Little Rock, Arkansas, was also 
radicalized by al Aulaqi. And now we have learned that the alleged 
Christmas Day terrorist was reportedly also in contact with al Aulaqi 
in Yemen. Convicted terrorist John walker Lindh was radicalized in 
Yemen while studying Arabic in 1998 and 2000, leading to his 
collaboration with the Taliban in Afghanistan.

Last week, President Obama said, ''Now is not the time for 
partisanship, it is the time for citizenship--a time to come together, 
work together with the seriousness of purpose that our national 
security demands.'' However, working together demands that this 
administration work with Congress, both Republicans and Democrats, in 
good faith to provide information, answer questions, and consider 
solutions, and to develop a strategy to defeat al Qaeda, whenever and 
however we can.

The administration must live up to the President's challenge to 
involve Congress in the active participation on counterterrorism 
matters. This can only happen, however, if the legislative branch, 
Republicans and Democrats, are included in the process.

In closing, I urge my colleagues in the House to support bringing 
back the 9/11 team, Kean and Hamilton, for 6 months, create a Team B to 
consider innovative solutions to disrupt and defeat al Qaeda, and to 
make the TSA administrator position independent and nonpartisan, that 
will go for a long term, similar to what we currently do with regards 
to the FBI. These are good bipartisan steps to protect the homeland, 
and ultimately to defeat al Qaeda.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I thank you for your courtesy, and yield back 
the balance of my time.



















 House of Representatives,

















 Washington, DC, January 12, 2010.


 Hon. Barack H. Obama,


 The President, The White House,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. President: ''National Security is too important to 


 become a partisan issue.'' This sentence was the opening line 


 in a January 11 USA Today op-ed jointly authored by Lee 


 Hamilton and Thomas Kean, co-chairs of the 9/11 Commission. 


 Last week, you, too, said, ''Now is not a time for 


 partisanship, it's a time for citizenship--a time to come 


 together and work together with the seriousness of purpose 


 that our national security demands.'' I could not agree more 


 with this sentiment.



 No nation, including America, can hope to win this long 


 battle against al Qaeda and like foes if the war effort is 


 marked by partisanship. Sadly, not only has partisanship 


 infused the rhetoric surrounding national security 


 discussions, it has actually obstructed the critical role of 


 congressional oversight. Too often in recent months 


 partisanship has resulted in withholding of information, 


 unanswered letters and briefings denied by this 


 administration.



 The stakes are too high and the cost of failure is too 


 great for petty politics to rule the day. The White House has 


 a moral obligation to actively and consistently reach out to 


 the minority party in Congress, to be forthcoming with 


 information and to provide access to all levels of 


 government.



 Hamilton and Kean go on to write, ''We intend to monitor 


 the implementation of the 9/11 Commission's recommendations 


 and report on new national security threats.'' I urge you to 


 encourage this effort by bringing back these two co-chairs 


 for a six-month period to conduct a formal review and 9/11 


 Commission follow-up. They would be charged with evaluating 


 which of the Commission's original recommendations have been 


 implemented and to what end, and which have failed to be 


 implemented and at what cost.



 This past weekend, The Washington Post featured an op-ed by 


 Bruce Hoffman, respected professor of security studies at 


 Georgetown University and a senior fellow at the U.S. 


 Military Academy's Combating Terrorism Center. Hoffman wrote, 


 ''(W)hile al-Qaeda is finding new ways to exploit our 


 weaknesses, we are stuck in a pattern of belated responses, 


 rather than anticipating its moves and developing preemptive 


 strategies. The 'systemic failure' of intelligence analysis 


 and airport security that Obama recently described was not 


 just the product of a compartmentalized bureaucracy or 


 analytical inattention, but a failure to recognize al-Qaeda's 


 new strategy. The national security architecture built in the 


 aftermath of Sept. 11 addresses yesterday's threats--but not 


 today's and certainly not tomorrow's. It is superb at 


 reacting and responding, but not at outsmarting . . . a new 


 approach to counterterrorism is essential.''



 Distinct from temporarily bringing back the two 9/11 


 Commission co-chairs, I also urge the creation of a ''Team 


 B.'' As you may know, historically the phrase ''Team B'' 


 refers to a group of outside experts, commissioned by the 


 Central Intelligence Agency in the 1970's and headed by 


 Richard Pipes, to analyze the threats posed by the Soviet 


 Union to the United States and counter the positions of 


 intelligence officials within the CIA, known as ''Team A.'' 


 In your remarks last week following the review of the 


 attempted Christmas Day terrorist attack, you rightly 


 referred to our enemy as ''nimble.'' Too often our response 


 to the evolving threat posed by al Qaeda, and others 


 sympathetic to their murderous aims, is anything but.





 The Team B concept has been successful in previous 


 administrations when fresh eyes were needed to provide the 


 commander-in-chief with objective information to make 


 informed policy decisions. I believe it can work now, too, 


 and suggest that among the individuals, but not exclusively, 


 whose expertise and forward-thinking would be well-suited to 


 a Team B are: Bruce Hoffman; Andrew McCarthy and Patrick 


 Fitzgerald, both of whom were involved in the prosecution of 


 Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman in the first World Trade Center 


 bombings; Fouad Ajami, professor at the School of Advanced 


 International Studies (SAIS), Johns Hopkins University; Jean 


 Bethke Elshtain, professor of social and political ethics at 


 the University of Chicago; economist Judy Shelton, National 


 Endowment for Democracy board member; foreign policy 


 columnist and author Anne Applebaum; Andrew F. Krepinevich 


 Jr., author of Seven Deadly Scenarios: A Military Futurist 


 Explores War in the 21st Century; Elliot Cohen, professor of 


 Strategic Studies at SAIS; Philip D. Zelikow, diplomat and 


 author who worked as executive director of the 9/11 


 Commission; and Joshua Muravchik, formerly a scholar at the 


 American Enterprise Institute and presently a Foreign Policy 


 Institute fellow at SAIS.



 The 9/11 Commission report was issued nearly six years ago. 


 Even if every recommendation had been implemented, which it 


 has not, our enemy has evolved since that time. Our current 


 intelligence infrastructure is at times overwhelmed by data, 


 information and the urgency of daily events, and as such is 


 unable to dedicate the time and resources necessary to think 


 outside the box and better comprehend this multidimensional 


 threat. ''Team B'' would possess the necessary expertise but 


 would be free from these daily pressures. The team would 


 represent a ''new approach to counterterrorism'' which 


 focuses not just on connecting the dots of intelligence, but 


 which seeks to stay a step ahead in understanding how to 


 break the radicalization and recruitment cycle that sustains 


 our enemy, how to disrupt their network globally and how to 


 strategically isolate them.



 I also believe there is an urgent need to make the 


 Transportation Security Agency (TSA) administrator a long-


 term position. Since TSA's inception following the 9/11 


 attacks, there have been six Transportation Security Agency 


 administrators and acting administrators. For a position of 


 this import to turn over with such frequency and to 


 automatically change hands with each new administration 


 simply does not make sense. I am introducing legislation that 


 mirrors the language used to establish a 10-year term and 


 Senate confirmation for FBI directors. I am hopeful that 


 members of both parties will see the merits of this proposal 


 and I urge your support for this change.



 America is a great nation facing an enemy unlike any other 


 we have ever known. We must steel ourselves for the struggle 


 ahead, frankly assessing the nature and scope of the threat 


 we face and guarding against partisanship at all costs. The 


 people of this country deserve nothing less.





 Sincerely,


























Frank R. Wolf,


 Member of Congress.