# CIVIL WAR IN IRAQ
## `aca3b2a662baa4efd98ed3600b1e0367`
`Mr. McDERMOTT â€” 28 February 2007`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Madam Speaker, finally, grudgingly, the administration 
has agreed to talk to Syria and Iran about the civil war that is raging 
in Iraq. This should have happened at least 2 years ago, so why now?

Has the President finally concluded what many of us have said for a 
long time: That you cannot shoot your way to a peace in Iraq? That 
would be a hopeful sign, but it is doubtful since he continues to 
escalate the U.S. presence in the middle of a civil war.

The apparent movement towards diplomacy comes at a curious time. The 
American people told their government last November to get their 
soldiers out of harm's way when they gave the Democrats a 2-year 
contract on the majority. And it didn't take long for this House to 
make a down payment on rebuilding trust with the American people.

Despite repeated Presidential claims that meant nothing, the 
overwhelming passage of Speaker Pelosi's first step in getting U.S. 
soldiers out of harm's way was the shot heard round the world.

No one wants to move faster than me in getting the soldiers out of 
Iraq. But every journey starts with a single step, and we have done it.

The American people and other nations welcomed the Speaker's 
leadership in getting this country to begin to set a new course in Iraq 
based on a reality, and not based on the same old rhetoric from the 
White House. They continue to bluster; so what else is new?

There are serious mainstream Middle East leaders who believe the U.S. 
policy has more to do with extraction than engagement. By extraction, 
they don't mean U.S. soldiers being extracted out of harm's way, they 
are referring to extracting Iraq's oil.

The Asia Times yesterday published two commentaries that are 
reverberating throughout the Middle East. One is called, ''U.S.'s Iraq 
Oil Grab is a Done Deal.'' And the other is entitled: ''Big Oil In, 
Stability Out Under New Iraqi Law.'' I will include the two articles 
for the Record.

As many articles in recent days have pointed out, the President's 
representatives in Iraq used intense pressure behind the scenes to get 
the Iraq government to take the first step in making production-sharing 
agreements, PSAs, the law of Iraq. There are scenarios in which 
investment and production will be a benefit to the Iraq people, but the 
Iraq people have to be solely in charge. As it stands, and as many 
fear, the


PSA language approved over the weekend could indenture Iraq's oil 
wealth to U.S. oil interests for decades to come.

As passed by the Iraq parliament, a new centralized government agency 
in Iraq, closely tied to the U.S., would have ultimate control over who 
gets access to Iraq's vast oil resources.

The oil industry itself says it costs one single dollar to extract a 
barrel of oil in Iraq, but that barrel brings $60 today on the world 
market. How does big oil, closely aligned to the President and Vice 
President, spell conservation? It is spelled I-R-A-Q.

Here is the U.S.-Iraq equation as seen by people from the Middle 
East: Billions of barrels of oil, billions of dollars in profits, 
dozens of U.S. military bases across Iraq, and thousands of U.S. 
soldiers remaining in Iraq.

The bottom line is this: Is the President hoping Iraq will import 
democracy, or will it export oil under the thumb of U.S. oil interests?

The production-sharing agreements have not yet been enacted into law. 
The outcome is still uncertain. But one thing is certain, production-
sharing agreements that favor the U.S. means the U.S. will be in Iraq 
for decades. The President has expressed a new found interest in 
diplomacy.

Are we going to negotiate with Iran at the same time we push for PSA 
agreements to become law? A lot of people in the Middle East wonder. 
The U.S. needs to state its intentions if there is any hope for a 
diplomatic solution in Iraq.

We not only need to extract U.S. soldiers from Iraq, we also need to 
extract U.S. oil interests from dictating the oil future for the Iraqi 
people. The deeper the U.S. goes in influencing the distribution of 
Iraq oil wealth, the more we inflame the tensions and suspicions about 
why we invaded Iraq in the first place.

Remember weapons of mass destruction and Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda 
and democracy? Now it becomes clear what it is really all about: 
Getting control of Iraq oil.

Madam Speaker, we have got to have the President come clean. Perhaps 
he will do a White House speech on this.










[From the Asia Times, Feb. 27, 2007]










U.S.'s Iraq Oil Grab Is a Done Deal














 (By Pepe Escobar)




 ''By 2010 we will need [a further] 50 million barrels a 


 day. The Middle East, with two-thirds of the oil and the 


 lowest cost, is still where the prize lies.''--U.S. Vice 


 President Dick Cheney, then Halliburton chief executive 


 officer, London, autumn 1999.



 U.S. President George W. Bush and Vice President Dick 


 Cheney might as well declare the Iraq war over and out. As 


 far as they--and the humongous energy interests they defend--


 are concerned, only now is the mission really accomplished. 


 More than half a trillion dollars spent and perhaps half a 


 million Iraqis killed have come down to this.



 On Monday, Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's cabinet in 


 Baghdad approved the draft of the new Iraqi oil law. The 


 government regards it as ''a major national project''. The 


 key point of the law is that Iraq's immense oil wealth (115 


 billion barrels of proven reserves, third in the world after 


 Saudi Arabia and Iran) will be under the iron rule of a fuzzy 


 ''Federal Oil and Gas Council'' boasting ''a panel of oil 


 experts from inside and outside Iraq''. That is, nothing less 


 than predominantly U.S. Big Oil executives.



 The law represents no less than institutionalized raping 


 and pillaging of Iraq's oil wealth. It represents the death 


 knell of nationalized (from 1972 to 1975) Iraqi resources, 


 now replaced by production sharing agreements (PSAs)--which 


 translate into savage privatization and monster profit rates 


 of up to 75% for (basically U.S.) Big Oil. Sixty-five of 


 Iraq's roughly 80 oilfields already known will be offered for 


 Big Oil to exploit. As if this were not enough, the law 


 reduces in practice the role of Baghdad to a minimum. Oil 


 wealth, in theory, will be distributed directly to Kurds in 


 the north, Shi'ites in the south and Sunnis in the center. 


 For all practical purposes, Iraq will be partitioned into 


 three statelets. Most of the country's reserves are in the 


 Shi'ite-dominated south, while the Kurdish north holds the 


 best prospects for future drilling.



 The approval of the draft law by the fractious 275-member 


 Iraqi Parliament, in March, will be a mere formality. Hussain 


 al-Shahristani, Iraq's oil minister, is beaming. So is dodgy 


 Barnham Salih: a Kurd, committed cheerleader of the U.S. 


 invasion and occupation, then deputy prime minister, big PSA 


 fan, and head of a committee that was debating the law.



 But there was not much to be debated. The law was in 


 essence drafted, behind locked doors, by a U.S. consulting 


 firm hired by the Bush administration and then carefully 


 retouched by Big Oil, the International Monetary Fund, former 


 U.S. deputy defense secretary Paul Wolfowitz' World Bank, and 


 the United States Agency for International Development. It's 


 virtually a U.S. law (its original language is English, not 


 Arabic).



 Scandalously, Iraqi public opinion had absolutely no 


 knowledge of it--not to mention the overwhelming majority of 


 Parliament members. Were this to be a truly representative 


 Iraqi government, any change to the legislation concerning 


 the highly sensitive question of oil wealth would have to be 


 approved by a popular referendum.



 In real life, Iraq's vital national interests are in the 


 hands of a small bunch of highly impressionable (or downright 


 corrupt) technocrats. Ministries are no more than 


 political party feuds; the national interest is never 


 considered, only private, ethnic and sectarian interests. 


 Corruption and theft are endemic. Big Oil will profit 


 handsomely--and long-term, 30 years minimum, with fabulous 


 rates of return--from a former developing-world stalwart 


 methodically devastated into failed-state status.



 In these past few weeks, U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad 


 has been crucial in mollifying the Kurds. In the end, in 


 practice, the pro-U.S. Kurds will have all the power to sign 


 oil contracts with whatever companies they want. Sunnis will 


 be more dependent on the Oil Ministry in Baghdad. And 


 Shi'ites will be more or less midway between total 


 independence in the south and Baghdad's dictum (which they 


 control anyway). But the crucial point remains: nobody will 


 sign anything unless the ''advisers'' at the U.S.-manipulated 


 Federal Oil and Gas Council say so.



 Nobody wants to colonial-style PSAs forced down their 


 throat anymore. According to the International Energy Agency, 


 PSAs apply to only 12% of global oil reserves, in cases where 


 costs are very high and nobody knows what will be found 


 (certainly not the Iraqi case). No big Middle Eastern oil 


 producer works with PSAs. Russia and Venezuela are 


 renegotiating all of them. Bolivia nationalized its gas. 


 Algeria and Indonesia have new rules for future contracts. 


 But Iraq, of course, is not a sovereign country.



 Big Oil is obviously ecstatic--not only ExxonMobil, but 


 also ConocoPhillips, Chevron, BP and Shell (which have 


 collected invaluable info on two of Iraq's biggest 


 oilfields), TotalFinaElf, Lukoil from Russia and the Chinese 


 majors. Iraq has as many as 70 undeveloped fields--''small'' 


 ones hold a minimum of a billion barrels. As desert western 


 Iraq has not even been exploited, reserves may reach 300 


 billion barrels--way more than Saudi Arabia. Gargantuan 


 profits under the PSA arrangement are in a class by 


 themselves. Iraqi oil costs only US$1 a barrel to extract. 


 With a barrel worth $60 and up, happy days are here again.



 What revenue the regions do get will be distributed to all 


 18 provinces based on population size--an apparent concession 


 to the Sunnis, whose central areas have relatively few proven 


 reserves.



 The Sunni Arab muqawama (resistance) certainly has other 


 ideas--as in future rolling thunder against pipelines, 


 refineries and Western personnel. Iraq's oil independence 


 will not go down quietly--at least among Sunnis. On the same 


 day the oil law was being approved, a powerful bomb at the 


 Ministry of Municipalities killed at least 12 people and 


 injured 42, including Vice President Adel Abdul Mahdi. Mahdi 


 has always been a feverish supporter of the oil law. He's a 


 top official of the Shi'ite party, the Supreme Council for 


 the Islamic Revolution of Iraq (SCIRI).



 A whole case can be made of SCIRI delivering Iraq's Holy 


 Grail to Bush/Cheney and Big Oil--in exchange for not being 


 chased out of power by the Pentagon. Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, the 


 SCIRI's leader, is much more of a Bush ally than Maliki, who 


 is from the Da'wa Party. No wonder SCIRI's Badr Organization 


 and their death squads were never the target of Washington's 


 wrath--unlike Muqtada al-Sadr's Mehdi Army (Muqtada is 


 fiercely against the oil law). The SCIRI certainly listened 


 to the White House, which has always made it very clear: any 


 more funds to the Iraqi government are tied up with passing 


 the oil law.



 Bush and Cheney got their oily cake--and they will eat it, 


 too (or be drenched in its glory). Mission accomplished: 


 permanent, sprawling military bases on the eastern flank of 


 the Arab nation and control of some of largest, untapped oil 


 wealth on the planet--a key geostrategic goal of the New 


 American Century. Now it's time to move east, bomb Iran, 


 force regime change and--what else?--force PSAs down their 


 Persian throats.