# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3222, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `aca9ecd3cc7376c9a9b2ae20364a03dc`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN â€” 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I rise in 
support of the rule and this conference report.

I want to commend Chairman Murtha and Ranking Member Young for the 
great work they do together each and every year on behalf of our young 
soldiers and their families, and the great staff that works in a 
nonpartisan manner for all of those soldiers and families.

The challenge laid before our subcommittee every year, and this year 
is no exception, is to strike the appropriate balance between present 
and future needs.

Clearly, we must provide the necessary funding to support our 
courageous young warfighters, troops in and out of the current fight, 
and their families and do it as soon as possible.

In this regard, I'm pleased, as others have mentioned, that we fully 
fund a pay raise for our troops. We also provide an additional $2.5 
billion for family support activities, more counselors, teachers, day 
care providers, better housing.

This bill also contains significant increases in many Defense health 
accounts and provides funding to improve military mental health and 
post-traumatic stress syndrome programs.

It includes new efforts on preventative medicine in the Department of 
Defense and extra medical research. It contains $1.9 billion to erase 
the shortfall in the military's TRICARE medical program. It fully funds 
flying hours and home training.

But, Mr. Speaker, our committee has also applied its best judgment as 
to how we look to the future and how our Nation will confront 
adversaries in future conflicts.

This bill provides, as others have said, nearly a billion new dollars 
to upgrade the equipment of our National Guard and Reserves for both 
military and home State civil operations.

This bill fully funds the end strength increases for the Army and the 
Marines.

It moves the F-22 Raptor program forward and retains important 
language that bars its foreign sale.

The bill advances the Joint Strike Fighter program and directs 
production of a second engine.

Mr. Chairman, if I'd written this bill, I might have written some 
sections differently. For example, I wonder if we've gotten it right 
with respect to the future combat systems, the Army's signature 
modernization program. That's the Army's future, and we need greater 
investments in that area.

And lastly, Mr. Speaker, I join with many others in being very 
concerned that this conference report does not include a bridge fund to 
support our deployed warfighters. I understand that the House may bring 
a freestanding bridge fund to the floor next week.

However, I believe it's a mistake to attempt to pass a downsized, 
stand-alone bridge fund wrapped in so much red tape and conditionality 
so as to force the President to veto. While this may serve some ends, 
it slows the process of getting needed support for those who are 
literally on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan.

But all in all, this is an excellent package, worthy of our support. 
Again, I congratulate Chairman Murtha and Mr. Young for all they do 
each and every year, and I support the rule and I support the 
conference report.

