# FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `acaf8434118e55eb6ef11e6f6361fab9`
`Mr. REID — 14 December 2010`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, last night I was at home and received a 
message on my BlackBerry that Ambassador Richard Holbrooke had died. I 
felt very sad about that. He was such a nice man. He was the epitome in 
his dealings with me of a gentleman. Everyone who worked with him knew 
how hard he worked. I join many thousands of people who mourn the 
passing of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, a champion diplomat and my 
personal friend.

Ambassador Holbrooke dedicated his entire life to foreign service, to 
keeping America safe through tough, sensible diplomacy. I will miss 
him, his friendship, his counsel. Our Nation will miss his tireless 
leadership and steady guidance of our foreign policy.

I had the opportunity to work with him closely on a number of 
occasions during my tenure as majority leader. I appreciated our many 
conversations as insights into the central national security issues of 
the day. The world bears the imprints of Ambassador Holbrooke's efforts 
to bring peace and security to places torn by violence and conflict. 
From his early days in the Foreign Service to his leadership 
negotiating the Dayton Accords to latest efforts at stabilizing 
Afghanistan and Pakistan, Ambassador Holbrooke was always at the center 
of the toughest security challenges of a given era.

America is safer and more respected around the world because of 
Richard Holbrooke. Our Nation mourns his passing. I offer my 
condolences to his family and loved ones during this most difficult 
time.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.