# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE
## `accee16ee4fe93e130e2b652cea4ecbe`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 21 October 2009`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, yesterday, the Senate majority leader was 
required to file cloture to end a Republican filibuster against the 
Department of Defense authorization bill. We are in two wars. We are in 
two wars, and we are about to send, from my State of Vermont, 1,500 
members of our National Guard to Afghanistan. We have all kinds of 
things the Defense authorization bill is designed for, including to 
protect Americans serving abroad in harm's way. Yet the Republicans 
have filibustered against the Department of Defense authorization bill. 
The Senate is going to vote on that tomorrow, pursuant to our rules. I 
hope we will have a bipartisan vote proceeding to conclude the debate 
on the conference report which has been adopted by the House. I expect 
the Senate, on both sides of the aisle, will vote to provide the 
authorities necessary for our men and women in uniform.

I wonder what it would be like if you were a soldier, a marine out on 
the front lines in Afghanistan, and you get some news back home that 
one political party is holding up the Department of Defense 
authorization bill--the authorization for your equipment, the 
authorization for your body armor, the authorization for your 
ammunition, the authorization for your going forward. What would you 
think as the bullets are whizzing toward you? I know what I would 
think. I know what I would have thought when my young son was in the 
Marine Corps and got called for service in the Middle East. I know what 
I would have thought of people holding up the authorization for the 
equipment he needed.

Also, as part of that conference report, we are going to be adopting 
the Hate Crimes Prevention Act, including the provision added by the 
ranking Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Sessions, 
to create a new criminal offense for attacks against servicemembers 
because of their service. I would hope we will be moving forward on 
that.

After more than a decade, Congress is finally set to pass the Matthew 
Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009 as an 
amendment to the Defense Authorization Act. I know the President will 
sign this, and I am proud the Congress has come together to show that 
violence against members of any group because of who they are is not 
going to be tolerated in our country. I thank Senator Collins for 
cosponsoring the amendment with me. I commend Senator Levin for working 
so hard to ensure that this provision would go forward as part of the 
conference report, and I congratulate Senate Majority Leader Reid for 
his essential role in this matter.

If I might, as I look over where my dear friend and colleague, 
Senator Kennedy, sat for decades on this floor, I wish to take the 
opportunity to remember Senator Ted Kennedy, who provided steadfast 
leadership on this issue for more than a decade. I wish he could have 
been here to see this bill, about which he was so passionate, finally 
get enacted. I wish he was here in any event, but I am honored to be 
able to see it through to the finish line for him. I know it meant a 
lot to him. I miss him, but I think this is a way we can say to Senator 
Kennedy his good work goes on.

Earlier this month was the 11th anniversary of the brutal murder of 
Matthew Shepard. He was a college student who was beaten to death 
solely because of his sexual orientation. Matthew's parents worked 
courageously and tirelessly for this legislation, which aims to ensure 
this kind of despicable act will never be tolerated in this country.

The bill was named for Matthew as well as for James Byrd, Jr. Mr. 
Byrd was a Black man who was killed in 1998 because of his race--
another awful crime which I will not even describe because it was so 
gruesome--but it galvanized the Nation against hateful violence. We 
appreciate and honor the important contribution of James Byrd's family, 
as they have worked so hard for this legislation.

Unfortunately, the years since these two horrific crimes have made 
clear that hate crimes remain a serious and growing problem. Only a few 
weeks ago, we saw--just a few blocks from this Capitol--a shooting at 
the Holocaust Memorial Museum, a place that should be sacred ground 
because of what it remembers. We saw a vicious hate crime, with a man 
dying trying to defend the Holocaust Memorial Museum. I think this 
bipartisan legislation will help law enforcement respond more 
effectively to this problem. It is a testament to the importance of 
this legislation that the Attorney General of the United States, Eric 
Holder, came to the Judiciary Committee in June to testify in favor of 
it. We have been urged to pass this bill by State and local law 
enforcement organizations and dozens of leaders in the faith and civil 
rights communities. I wish, when I had been a prosecutor in the State 
of Vermont, that we had had such legislation so we could have called on 
it when we needed help.

This historic hate crimes legislation will improve existing law by 
making it easier for Federal authorities to investigate and prosecute 
crimes of racial or ethnic or religious violence. Victims will no 
longer have to engage in a narrow range of activities, such as serving 
as a juror, to be protected under Federal law.

It also focuses the attention and resources of the Federal Government 
on the crimes committed against people because of sexual orientation, 
their gender, their gender identity or their disability, which are much 
needed protections. In addition, the legislation will provide resources 
to State, local, and tribal law enforcement to address hate crimes.

President Obama has worked closely with us to facilitate the quick 
passage of this vital hate crimes legislation. In his first few months 
in office, he has acted to ensure that Federal benefits are awarded 
more equitably, regardless of sexual orientation, and now to ensure 
that this hate crimes legislation becomes law. Unlike previous years, 
this bipartisan hate crimes bill does not face a veto threat. We have a 
President who understands that crimes motivated by bias are 
particularly pernicious crimes and affect more than just the victims 
and the victims' families. They affect all of us. They affect us as a 
society. They weaken us and demean us as a society, and we should all 
be opposed to such crimes. I expect the President to sign this 
legislation without delay.

Hate crimes instill fear in those who have no connection to the 
victim other than a shared characteristic, such as race or sexual 
orientation. For nearly 150 years, we have responded as a nation to 
deter and to punish violent denials of civil rights by enacting Federal 
laws to protect the civil rights of all our citizens. The Matthew 
Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009 
continues that great and honorable tradition--Matthew Shepard, who was 
murdered because of his sexual orientation; James Byrd, who was 
murdered because of his race. In passing this legislation, we can say 
to them and everybody else that at last we in the Senate, the body that 
should be the conscience of the Nation, will show, once again, that 
America values tolerance and protects all its people.