# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `acd05d183621859ac45a4f4b8c25663b`
`Ms. MATSUI — 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from New York for 
yielding me the time and for her outstanding leadership on our 
committee.

Mr. Speaker, this debate is long overdue. There is no issue more 
serious or more urgent. The American people said loud and clear in the 
last election that they consider bringing this war to a close to be the 
singular imperative of their leaders. Yet rather than beginning to 
bring the troops home, the President has proposed escalating this 
conflict.

The American people deserve to know where their elected 
representatives stand on this, the most critical issue at this moment 
in history. This week the people will get their answer.

Mr. Speaker, here is where I stand: I opposed this war from the 
beginning, and I support several responsible proposals to bring this 
war to a close. I believe the President's proposed escalation would be 
a tragic mistake. It will most likely result in an increase in violence 
while only postponing the hard political choices the Iraqi people must 
make. It will also increase the strain on a military that is already 
stretched to the breaking point.

Mr. Speaker, it is critically important to make clear that Iraq has 
spiraled into civil war because of the failure of this country's 
political leadership, not our troops. Our brave men


and women in uniform have done everything that has been asked of them. 
The real tragedy is how ill served they have been by their political 
leadership.

I have heard firsthand from many families in Sacramento the impact 
this has had on their lives. Linda, a concerned mother, told me about 
her son, Nicholas, who serves as an Army sergeant in the 82nd Airborne 
in Germany. Shortly, he will be returning to Iraq for his third tour. 
And there are some 30 soldiers in the Sacramento area who have died in 
this war. I have met several times with members of the National Guard 
and Reserve and their families. Every Member knows what I am talking 
about. We have all done it. We all know the pain.

In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, this administration has failed to meet 
the most basic requirements of responsible leadership. As a result, it 
has abdicated any claim to deference from this Chamber on this war and 
has certainly relinquished the moral authority to send men and women 
into this catastrophe.

Undoubtedly, this Chamber will need to take more forceful action if 
we are to bring this war to a conclusion. But today is an important 
first step.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution and to oppose this 
gravely mistaken proposal to escalate the war.

Mr. Speaker, this debate is long overdue. There is no issue more 
serious . . . or more urgent. The American People sent a message in the 
last election. That message was that they consider bringing this war to 
a close to be the singular imperative of their leaders.

Yet rather than beginning to bring troops home, the President has 
proposed escalating this conflict . . . sending tens of thousands of 
additional troops to Iraq.

Rather than change direction . . . they would instead continue down 
our current, disastrous path . . . only at a faster pace and with more 
human life placed in harm's way.

This week, every Member of the House of Representatives will have an 
opportunity to let their constituents know where they stand on the 
President's proposed escalation. That is only right.

The American people deserve to know where their elective 
representatives stand on this, the most critical issue at this moment 
of our history.

Mr. Speaker, here's where I stand. I opposed this war from the 
beginning, and I support several responsible proposals to bring this 
war to a close.

I believe the President's proposed escalation would be a tragic 
mistake. His stubborn insistence on pursuing the present course has 
been rejected by our military leaders . . . the independent Iraq study 
group . . . and a strong majority of the public. And with good reason.

This escalation will most likely result in an increase in violence 
while only postponing the hard political choices the Iraqi people must 
make.

Escalation of this conflict will also increase the strain on a 
military that is already stretched to the breaking point.

Mr. Speaker, it is critically important to make clear that Iraq has 
spiraled into civil war because of the failure of this country's 
political leadership . . . not our troops.

Our brave men and women in uniform have done everything that has been 
asked of them. They courageously put their lives on the line every day 
for us.

The real tragedy is how ill-served our men and women in uniform have 
been by their political leadership.

I have heard firsthand from many families in Sacramento about the 
impact this has had on their lives.

In 2005, I spoke with a group of women whose husbands were serving in 
the National Guard in Iraq.

One woman told me she bought her husband a Kevlar vest before he 
deployed . . . something all too many families were doing for their 
loved ones because the military wasn't providing it. Imagine the stress 
. . . sending a loved one into danger without the confidence that he 
would be given the needed equipment for protection.

And I have heard countless stories about the hardships being created 
by the multiple tours this conflict has demanded.

Linda, a concerned mother from Sacramento, told me about her son, 
Nicholas, who serves as an Army sergeant in the 82nd Airborne in 
Germany. He lives on-base with his wife and two children, ages four and 
five. Another child is on the way.

Nicholas recently learned that he was going to have to return to Iraq 
for his third tour.

Linda wrote me and said that his family . . . and I'm quoting . . . 
''. . . will be all alone in Germany when he leaves and each time he 
has gone, the children have terrible nightmares and anger issues 
because they do not understand the long separations.''

Another Sacramento couple that wrote me are the proud parents of 
three Army soldiers . . . one is currently serving his second tour in 
Iraq . . . the other two have already completed two tours in Iraq. They 
ask . . . will their sons be asked to go back a third time?

My friend Richard Beach served as a chaplain in the U.S. Army 
Reserves in Iraq. Richard served in Iraq early in the conflict, and 
realized that four years since he went there, many of his fellow 
reservists are still serving there.

Richard shared with me a note he sent to some of his fellow members 
of the 114th. He wrote . . . and I quote . . . ''I remember four years 
ago we were getting ready for our trip to Fort Lewis and then on to 
Iraq. I hope as the fourth anniversary of the war comes up you are all 
in good health and living life to the fullest. I too pray that soon 
this war will end, and we will stop sending our soldiers off to war.''

Four years later . . . and still many of the same soldiers and their 
families are making the same sacrifice. But that is the heartbreaking 
reality here.

There are some 30 soldiers in the Sacramento area who have died in 
this war. I've met several times with members of the National Guard and 
Reserve and their families. Every member knows what I am talking about. 
We've all done it. We all know the pain.

The notion of ''shared sacrifice'' is something that helped make this 
country great.

But with this administration . . . only our soldiers and their 
families share in the sacrifice.

In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, it is important to note that this country 
has tried troop increases before . . . to no avail. Sadly, this 
administration simply lacks credibility when arguing that this proposal 
will work.

As a result of this administration's failure to meet the most basic 
requirements of responsible leadership, it has abdicated any claim to 
deference from this chamber on this war . . . and it has certainly 
relinquished the moral authority to send additional men and women into 
this catastrophe.

Today's step is only a first step. Undoubtedly, this chamber will 
need to take more forceful action if we are to bring this war to a 
conclusion. But it is an important first step.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution . . . and to oppose 
this gravely mistaken proposal to escalate the war.