# TARP REFORM AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2009
## `acd4f39236caf5214a9c7323bf78e142`
`Mr. POE of Texas — 14 January 2009`

---


Mr. POE of Texas. I thank the gentleman for yielding.



I think the ranking member said it best yesterday when there were 
hearings on this that there was a time in this country when the people 
would go to the bank and borrow money from the bank. My grandfather was 
a banker for a good number of years, even back in the thirties, and 
when a person went to the bank, the bank would require sometimes that 
the bank would want to know what the money was going to be spent on, of 
all things, and then forms would be filled out and money would be 
loaned.

Times have changed. Now the people loan money to the bank, to many 
banks, to the very special interest banks, and we know not what they 
are doing with that money, and certainly no background checks or forms 
were filled out by those banks before we gave them the money. Now we 
are being asked to do it again. We certainly don't learn our lessons.

The cost of bailouts by this Congress last year exceeds the amount of 
the total cost of all the wars this country has been in; the American 
Revolution, the War of 1812, the Civil War, World War I, World War II, 
the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the Iraqi War, the Afghanistan War. 
These bailouts that this Congress is spending the taxpayer money on 
costs more than all of the wars put together.

Maybe we ought to decide to do something else than continue to spend 
money that doesn't belong to us, but belongs to the American public.