---
---

# PRESIDENTAL VETO
## `acd59363bc64046edce7f167bfd5f481`
`Mr. HARKIN — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Madam President, earlier today, President Bush vetoed the 
Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill. I 
wish I could say I was surprised but, frankly, few actions by this 
President surprise me anymore. This is a good bill, a bipartisan bill, 
a bill that cleared both Houses with clear, strong majorities. In fact, 
the first one cleared here by 75 votes. It is a bill that reflects the 
critical education, health, job training needs of our country, 
especially for Americans who are at the bottom rungs of the socio-
economic ladder. The bill was endorsed by more than 1,000--actually 
1,075, to be exact--health, education, social service, and labor 
organizations in this country. There are disability groups in this 
letter, disease advocacy groups, school groups, community action 
partnerships, religious groups--millions of people across America are 
represented on this letter. This morning President Bush turned his back 
on all of them.

He seems to have no problem pouring billions of dollars into Iraq for 
schools, hospitals, job programs, health needs, but when it comes to 
those priorities here in America, the President says no. After spending 
all these billions of dollars on schools, hospitals, job programs, and 
health needs in Iraq, it is time to start investing some of that money 
here in America.

The President insists we have to stick to exactly the top number in 
his budget. Frankly, if we did that, we would be cutting programs such 
as the Low Income Heating Energy Assistance Program for the elderly at 
a time when we know fuel prices are going to be extremely high this 
winter.

The President completely zeroed out the social services block grant 
and cut the community services block grant by 50 percent.

Under the President's budget, we would be cutting the National Cancer 
Institute. At a time when we are starting to make some progress in the 
fight against cancer, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and so many other 
things, he cuts funding for the NIH.

Again, we need to put more money into special education to help some 
of our beleaguered property tax payers in our States.

We have a backlog of several hundred thousand cases in Social 
Security. People who have paid in all their lives to Social Security, 
if they have a problem and they have an appeal pending or a case to be 
heard--there are 700,000 backlogged. It is about a year-and-a-half wait 
right now to get Social Security. It is unconscionable. We put money in 
there to reduce the backlog.

We wanted to fund more community health centers as one of the great 
things we have done in this country to help people who are not getting 
their health care needs attended to, to get them at their community 
health care centers. It has done a great job nationally.

We put more money into the Head Start Program. And No Child Left 
Behind--we put more money in there to meet our needs in title I 
schools, teacher training.

These are all provisions that were in our bill. As I noted before, it 
was bipartisan. I worked very closely with Senator Specter, our ranking 
member. There were dozens of provisions and funding increases in the 
bill that were requested specifically by Republicans, those on the 
other side of the aisle who requested that we increase funding in these 
areas. Unfortunately, it seems Mr. Bush is more interested in provoking 
a confrontation than in governing responsibly. He recently dismissed 
the funding in this bill as ''social spending,'' as though somehow it 
pays for ice cream socials or Saturday-night socials or something such 
as that--social spending. I never heard it referred to like that. It is 
out of bounds, it is out of touch, it shows how isolated this President 
has become.

Every dime of additional funding in this bill goes to bedrock 
essential programs and services that have been shortchanged in the last 
few years. I mentioned them: community health centers, Head Start, NIH, 
special education, student aid, social services block grant and 
community services


block grant, Pell grants. These are all things that have been 
shortchanged. The President's budget would cut NIH, LIHEAP, special 
education, and eliminate the community services block grant, job 
training, housing and emergency food assistance for our most needy 
citizens. Apparently, Mr. Bush sees this as frivolous social spending. 
I couldn't disagree more.

We have to keep the President's veto this morning in context. During 
the 6 years Republicans controlled Congress, Mr. Bush did not veto a 
single appropriations bill, including many that went over his budget. 
He never vetoed one of them. Now Democrats are in charge. Yes, we have 
gone over budget in some of the areas I mentioned and not only with the 
support but the encouragement of Republican Members who wanted to add 
more money. I guess because the Democrats run Congress now, the 
President says he will veto them. He did. He vetoed the bill this 
morning, but he never vetoed one in 6 years even though they were above 
his request. It smacks of the most blatant form of partisanship and 
politics. It kind of goes beyond the pale.

A few weeks ago the President sent up a new supplemental spending 
bill. We will be working on that this week. I don't know if we will 
pass it this week or when we come back in December. It is more than 
$196 billion, mostly for Iraq. The Congressional Budget Office now 
estimates that Mr. Bush's war in Iraq will cost a staggering $1.9 
trillion in the next decade. Yet he vetoed this bill, over $12 billion 
in funding for education, health, biomedical research, and other 
domestic priorities.

You ask: $1.9 trillion, $12 billion, what does it mean? Look at it 
this way: Do away with all the zeroes. It means Mr. Bush is asking for 
$1,900 for Iraq. Yet he vetoed this bill because we spent $12 more than 
what he wanted. That shows misplaced priorities: $12 billion a month 
for the war in Iraq, yet he vetoed this bill which is $12 billion for a 
whole year.

What is most disappointing about the President's veto this morning is 
his total unwillingness to compromise. Any time we work out bills, we 
compromise. That is the art of democracy. We compromise. No one around 
here ever gets everything he or she wants, but we make compromises. We 
do it in committee; we do it on the floor of the Senate. We do it 
between the House and the Senate. Then when all is said and done and we 
work in conference, usually the President will work with us to work out 
problems. This is where the White House is. Where do we meet? The 
President never came to our conference--I shouldn't say the President 
didn't, but his people never came to our conference to offer 
compromises, where we might meet halfway.

When the President sent down his veto message, he mentioned two 
things about our bill: One, it had the lifting of his ban on stem cell 
research; two, it spent more money than he wanted. I thought a 
compromise might be: OK, we will take off the stem cell stuff, and you 
agree to the spending priorities we have. We voluntarily, to try to 
meet the President halfway, said: OK, we will take off the stem cell 
issue, even though Senator Specter and I both believe strongly in it. 
It passed the committee with only three dissenting votes. The Senate 
has spoken at least twice in support of an embryonic stem cell bill to 
take off the handcuffs the President has put on scientists. But even 
that wasn't enough.

Then we went to conference. We thought: OK, will the President now 
try to meet us somewhat on the spending part? The answer was no. It was 
his way or the highway. We either agree totally with the President or 
he is going to veto it and the White House will put pressure on the 
House because that is where the bill goes for an override, to keep them 
from overriding his veto.

It is sad the President has taken that position. Under the 
Constitution, Congress does have the power to override a veto. It 
happened last week with the water resources bill. He vetoed it. Both 
the House and Senate voted over two-thirds, as is constitutionally 
required, to override the veto. We could do it on this bill that funds 
education, everything from Head Start, elementary education with title 
I, No Child Left Behind, elementary and secondary education, college 
with Pell grants, student loans, forgiveness of loans if you go into 
certain occupations such as medically underserved areas, legal 
services, or become a prosecuting attorney--the type of occupations 
that don't pay a lot of money but are needed in our country.

On health, especially all the biomedical research that was in that 
bill for NIH, the money for the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention for making sure we get more flu vaccine this year 
stockpiled, not to mention all of the efforts that CDC is doing in 
stockpiling other vaccines in case of a terrorist incident, something 
that might happen--we hope it doesn't, but we have to be prepared for 
it--that is in this bill he vetoed.

I mentioned things such as low-income heating energy assistance for 
low-income elderly. This is all in this bill. Now it is up to the House 
whether they will vote to override the veto. It will be interesting to 
see how many House Members would vote to override the President on the 
water resources bill but would not vote to override a bill that deals 
with health, education, community block grants, NIH, the Centers for 
Disease Control. It will be interesting.

The Water Resources Development Act was an important bill. I was 
strongly supportive of it. It goes basically to meet one of the urgent 
infrastructure needs of the country: waterways, to make sure we upgrade 
our locks and dams and make sure they are adequate to the environmental 
needs and river transportation needs for the next century. It is vital. 
The Education, Health and Human Services, and Labor appropriations bill 
is sort of the counterpart of that in terms of the human 
infrastructure, making sure we have the best educated populace, that we 
meet the health care needs of people, that we invest in cutting edge 
research, that we have good job retraining programs.

We just had a case where a Maytag plant, after all these years, 
closed in Newton, IA. We need job retraining programs. That is in this 
bill the President vetoed. It is human infrastructure needs.

It will be interesting to see how many House Members vote to override 
the President when it comes to the physical infrastructure but now will 
not vote to override the President when it comes to the human 
infrastructure. I hope it is very few. I hope we get the same number of 
votes to override the President's veto on this Education, Health and 
Human Services, and Labor appropriations bill as we got on the water 
resources bill.

It is a sad day that the President would veto this bill. We went out 
of our way to meet him halfway, but he said absolutely not. It is his 
way or nothing else.

That is not the way we do things. The President is not acting 
responsibly, quite frankly, in this area. I don't know what we can do. 
If the House overrides the veto, I am pretty certain we would have the 
votes here to override the veto. We would have to wait for the House to 
act first. I hope they do, and I hope we get it. I hope we vote to 
override the veto. But until then, we have to see what the House is 
going to do.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.