---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ace97c66461dac481e5ce3e03860f1ff`
`Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS — 15 February 2007`

---


Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS. Mr. Speaker, this afternoon we continue here 
on the House floor another chapter in the long and healthy debate on 
promoting freedom and democracy around the world, while maintaining the 
security of our country, of our cities, of our homes and our families.

The resolution before us today appropriately begins with the 
reaffirmation of our vigorous, unwavering commitment to the brave men 
and women now serving our country in uniform. We pledge to give them 
every tool they need to fulfill their assigned missions while providing 
the maximum protection possible. Additionally, we pledge their families 
every means of support when their loved ones are overseas and when they 
return home.

My district in eastern Washington is the proud home to Fairchild Air 
Force Base that houses the 92nd Air Refueling Wing. These men and women 
have been an important part of fighting the global war on terror. Our 
community, like every community around the country, supports our men 
and women in uniform. Together, we have celebrated victory; and, 
together, we have mourned losses.

We unanimously stand by our troops because, almost 5 years ago, this 
Congress asked them to step forward to protect our country and win the 
fight against terrorism.

On October 10, 2002, before many of us were here, including myself, 
296 Members of this body, including 81 Democrats, passed a bipartisan 
bill authorizing the use of military force in Iraq. The next day, 77 
Members of the Senate approved a motion authorizing the same use of 
force.

What Congress realized then was the importance to the security of our 
own country of a free and stable Iraq and a peaceful and secure Middle 
East. Five years ago, Congress was at a crossroads and made a very 
difficult decision. Today, young girls in Iraq can now attend school, 
democratic elections have been held, a fledgling government is in 
place, and Saddam Hussein, a murderer of over 300,000 Iraqis, is no 
longer a threat to his own people or to our national security. In Iraq, 
we have acknowledged victories and successes.

In the past year, we all recognize the condition in Iraq has grown 
more grave. I know a lot has changed since I visited nearly a year ago. 
Al Qaeda operatives, Sunni death squads and Shia militias, propped up 
by the reckless dictatorship of Iran, have fueled violence and 
threatened the hopes and dreams of the Iraqi people.

So Congress is once again at a crossroads. The reality of the 
circumstances in Iraq require a winning strategy. The information 
provided by our reformed intelligence community sends a clear warning 
in the National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq: ''Unless efforts to 
reverse these conditions show measurable progress, the situation will 
continue to deteriorate.'' The solution cannot be in leaving things as 
they are. The NIE continues: ''Coalition capabilities remain an 
essential stabilizing element in Iraq.''

There are three courses of action: leave things as they are; we know 
this is not sufficient. Draw down Armed Forces in Iraq; this will only 
lead to deadly indiscriminate violence, costing the lives of hundreds 
of thousands of innocent people. Or respond by giving our commanders in 
Iraq the resources and the mission options needed for success.

All of us here support our men and women in uniform. We must continue 
to empower them to defeat the enemies of freedom in Iraq.

Congress is now in the midst of making a decision that will 
contribute to the future security of our great country or begin the 
process of chipping away at the core of this resolve. Supporting our 
troops by not supporting the war is not an option. Victory is the only 
real choice. The consequences of failure are unacceptable.

Abandoning Iraq would embolden the militants. It would create a 
humanitarian crisis impacting millions. Instability in the Middle East 
will create more violence and leave the U.S. vulnerable to future 
attacks.



I urge my colleagues to oppose this resolution.