---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ace9979c39e649ac2d9dbd7a58c8d9f5`
`Mr. GINGREY — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of our 
troops who are faithfully serving our Nation in harm's way. Therefore, 
I must oppose this resolution brought to the floor by the Democrats 
because it offers no plan, no strategy, and no hope for victory. In 
fact, it does nothing but risk demoralizing our troops.

Mr. Speaker, let me start by saying that Republicans and Democrats 
alike recognize mistakes have been made in Iraq and neither side of the 
aisle is happy with where we are today. But rather than offering 
solutions to move us forward or engage in a productive debate on 
alternative strategies, the Democrats have decided to propose what 
certainly seems to be a politically motivated resolution.

I ask, Mr. Speaker, what are we really accomplishing with this 
resolution? The answer is nothing. With this shameless stunt, the 
Democrats are locking down this body for 36 hours maybe in hopes of 
scoring political points by criticizing the President. But by using our 
troops as pawns in an attempt to gain political leverage, this 
resolution serves only to weaken troop morale while giving hope and 
comfort to the enemy.



In doing so, Mr. Speaker, the Democrats have done nothing to end the 
war or help our troops achieve victory.

Mr. Speaker, seeing as the Democrats have hijacked the Floor all week 
to debate this resolution, surely they must have an alternative to the 
President's plan. I will bet the American people are as eager as I am 
to hear about this new plan for success, their plan. Certainly my 
constituents in the Eleventh District of Georgia are waiting.

So what is their magic alternative? Mr. Speaker, here it is. It is 
the same on both sides. They don't have one. We have heard from members 
of the Democratic team threaten to cut funding, to cap troop levels or 
to compel a forced withdrawal. But where are those ideas in this 
resolution? I have read through its two brief paragraphs and I can 
assure you they aren't to be found.

Sadly, the Democrats lack the political will to fully engage in a 
meaningful debate on Iraq policy. They have refused to allow a vote on 
funding for the war which would give Members an opportunity to show 
support for our troops with actions and not empty words.

Simply put, Mr. Speaker, the Democratic leadership is afraid to ask 
their Members to put their money where their mouths are and either vote 
yes or no to fund our troops and the mission. Isn't this why they have 
denied Republicans an opportunity to offer an alternative bill, or even 
a motion to recommit? They were for that last Thursday,


before being against it tonight. Sound familiar?

Apparently, Mr. Speaker, calls for funding cuts and troop withdrawals 
are good enough for newspaper headlines, but they are not good enough 
for votes on this House floor. Let me remind my colleagues that sound 
bites for the nightly news will do nothing to win this war against 
terror.

Mr. Speaker, America has a long tradition of standing on the right 
side of this fight for freedom, even when it is a difficult stand to 
make, and the right course of action today is to stand by the Iraqi 
people until their government, their police and military can ensure the 
security of their own nation.

As in any war, there have been setbacks in Iraq. But as in past wars, 
we will move forward with victory as our goal. This Democratic 
resolution is a thinly veiled attempt to sound the retreat. That 
amounts to an unacceptable act of playing politics with our national 
security.

Mr. Speaker, as you have heard over the past 2 days, this is a 
serious debate, with very serious ramifications. It is not simply a 
simple resolution as the Democrats would like to characterize it. But 
on one hand, we have a shot at victory. We have an opportunity to push 
back the cause of radical terrorism. On the other hand, we have a two 
paragraph, nonbinding resolution that is essentially a vote of no 
confidence in the commander in chief.

This is not the time for our majority party to cave in to their anti-
war supporters of the liberal left and play politics with the security 
of the United States. This is a time for bold leadership and bold 
plans. Sadly, Mr. Speaker, neither is on display here today.

I hope for the sake of the American people, our troops and freedom-
loving nations around this world, that this resolution's flimsy words 
are not taken as a substitute for America's long tradition and 
commitment to achieving victory.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I want to point out to my colleagues this 
poster on my left. These brave soldiers, Paul Saylor from Breman, 
Georgia; Justin Johnson from Rome, Georgia; Lieutenant Tyler Brown, a 
Georgia Tech graduate, the president of the student body; and Hayes 
Clayton, III, from Marietta, Georgia, all died for their country.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot turn our backs on them. We cannot say to their 
moms and dads, their brothers and sisters, their wives and their 
children, that we supported sending them into harm's way and they gave 
their lives for their country, and now we are saying it was for naught, 
it was for nothing, it was not worth it. We can't let that happen.

Mr. Speaker, I want my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join 
with me in voting down this meaningless resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of our troops, who are 
faithfully serving our Nation in harm's way. Therefore, I must oppose 
this resolution brought to the floor by the Democrats because it offers 
no plan, no strategy, and no hope for victory. In fact, it does nothing 
but risk demoralizing our troops.

Mr. Speaker, let me start by saying that Republicans and Democrats 
alike recognize mistakes have been made in Iraq, and neither side of 
the aisle is happy with where we are today. But rather than offering 
solutions to move us forward, or engaging in a productive debate on 
alternative strategies, the Democrats have decided to propose what 
certainly seems to be a politically motivated non-binding resolution.

I ask, Mr. Speaker, what are we really accomplishing with this 
resolution? The answer is nothing. The Democrats are locking down this 
body for 36 hours--maybe in hopes of scoring political points by 
criticizing the President. But by using, our troops as pawns in an 
attempt to gain political leverage, this resolution serves only to 
weaken troop morale, while giving hope and comfort to the enemy.

And in doing so, Mr. Speaker, the Democrats have done nothing to end 
the war or to help our troops achieve victory.

Mr. Speaker, since the Democrats have hijacked the floor all week to 
debate this resolution, surely they must have an alternative to the 
President's plan. I'll bet the American people are as eager as I am to 
hear about this new plan for success. Certainly my constituents in the 
11th District of Georgia are.

So what is their magic alternative? As far as I can tell, Mr. 
Speaker, they don't have one.

We've heard members of the Democrat team threaten to cut funding, cap 
troop levels, or compel a forced withdrawal. But where are those ideas 
in this resolution? I've read through its two brief paragraphs, and I 
can assure you--they aren't to be found.

Sadly, the Democrats lack the political will to fully engage in a 
meaningful debate on Iraq policy. They've refused to allow a vote on 
funding for the war, which would give Members an opportunity to show 
support for our troops with actions, not empty words.

Simply put, Mr. Speaker, the Democrat leadership is afraid to ask 
their members to put their money where their mouths are and vote 
''yes'' or ''no'' to fund our troops and their mission.

Isn't this why they've denied Republicans an opportunity to offer an 
alternate bill, or even a motion to recommit with instructions?

They were for that last Thursday before now being against it. Sound 
familiar?

Apparently, Mr. Speaker, calls for funding cuts and troop withdrawal 
are good enough for newspaper headlines, but not for votes on the House 
floor. Let me remind my colleagues that sound bytes for the nightly 
news will do nothing to win this war on terror.

