# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `acf149a9c104cbbcc3fe480e354b00e5`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, a few years ago this body granted a Berry 
waiver on the purchase of rayon fiber made in Austria for the purpose 
of making fire-resistant uniforms of the U.S. Marines, Army, and 
aviators. The Berry requirement is the buy American requirement, 
meaning that you first have to buy American before you go offshore to 
buy a product.

At the beginning of the Iraq war, the U.S. Army and Marines noticed 
immediately we had a tremendous increase, because of the nature of that 
war, in burn injuries. They conducted a survey and looked at the 24 
best alternatives they could find anywhere to make fire-resistant 
uniforms. They finally settled on a para-aramid fire-resistant fiber 
blend of rayon with nylon.

Environmental Protection Agency requirements to make rayon make it 
prohibitive in the United States, and there is no rayon produced in the 
United States. It is produced in Austria.

So the Berry waiver we received a few years ago was to allow them to 
import, through now and 2013, rayon, fire-resistant rayon, which in the 
United States is blended for fabric, cut, sewn, produced, and shipped 
to the U.S. military--10,000 American jobs. The rayon cannot be 
produced in the United States because of the EPA requirements.

The reason to request an exception and postpone the sunset in 2013 is 
because the military procurement in the outyears is now reaching beyond 
that. With the absence of a Berry waiver for those years, they would 
have to zero


out the purchase for those uniforms which, in turn, would mean the 
people who make those uniforms would not have the certainty of the 
Berry waiver because it would be subject to a Berry waiver again. 
Therefore, the investment they would make would be limited to the years 
they knew they could make the guaranteed deliveries.

I have offered this amendment as an extension for that very reason. 
The U.S. Army, the Marine Corps, and the aviators who use the material 
love it because it breathes, it gives them some circulation, it has 
tremendous protection against burns and it has performed very 
satisfactorily and they want to continue to use it and there is no 
American competitor that can meet or exceed it.

Obviously, if there were, that waiver would go away and we could 
compete, but at this time they do not. I ask the Members for their 
consideration on behalf of our military men and women in harm's way in 
Afghanistan and Iraq and wherever they might be for the uniform that 
was chosen for the very battle we are now in because it was the best 
the military could find anywhere in the country.

I yield the floor.