---
---

# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `acf51bda79cae0ab00e9bc63c39887b9`
`Mr. GINGREY — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I want to refer to my colleague from 
Georgia who just spoke. I reference article II, section 2, of the 
Constitution where it says the President shall be Commander in Chief of 
the Army and the Navy of the United States and of a militia of the 
several States.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to this legislation. 
It's rather outrageously being hailed by the Democrats as a readiness 
measure. Unfortunately, I fear this becomes nothing more than another 
attempt by this majority to pander to their liberal base and capitalize 
on public opinion polls by once again, this time a little more 
subtlety, attempting to draw down the troops in Iraq.

This is because the readiness provision within this bill apply only 
to troops returning from Iraq. While a unit which just completed a 15-
month tour in Iraq could not be deployed for 15 months, they could be 
deployed to combat in Afghanistan or, for that matter, Mr. Speaker, 
anywhere else in the world tomorrow without any regard for dwell time 
or readiness.

Inexplicably, while we're engaged in a worldwide campaign against 
terror, this majority is only concerned with the readiness of the 
troops deploying to Iraq.

Further, Mr. Speaker, by legislating the military deployment cycle, 
this bill would hamper the Department of Defense and bar the deployment 
of units that may be needed to reinforce our efforts in Iraq. Any 
constitutional scholar would tell you that these decisions, by their 
very nature, are the job of the Commander in Chief, not 435 would-be 
commanders in chief.

Now, to get around these unfortunate facts, my friends on the other 
side of the aisle included in their bill a Presidential waiver. During 
consideration of the bill in committee, the dangerous implications it 
could have on our ability to fight and win this global war on terror 
were often dismissed by the Democrats, my colleagues on the House Armed 
Services Committee, because of the presence of a waiver in the bill.

In reality, Mr. Speaker, not only will this bill make it more 
difficult to prosecute the global war on terror, the waiver adds 
another layer of bureaucracy that could potentially disrupt the 
deployment preparation cycle.

Mr. Speaker, all of this comes, unfortunately, during a time when we 
are just now starting to see marked progress and the momentum swinging 
in our favor in Iraq. Sadly, what is great news for America and for our 
troops is consequently bad news for the Democratic majority and this 
defeatist attitude.

Just this week, a New York Times editorial authored by Mike O'Hanlon 
and Kenneth Pollack reflected this progress. Make no mistake, Mr. 
Speaker, these two men have steadily criticized the prosecution of the 
war and lack of progress in Iraq over the past 4 years. However, just 
this week they wrote, ''We are finally getting somewhere in Iraq, at 
least in military terms. Today, morale is high. The soldiers and the 
Marines told us they feel that they now have a superb commander in 
General David Petraeus; they are confident in his strategy, they see 
real results, they feel now they have the numbers needed to make a real 
difference.''

And thankfully, U.S. casualties in Iraq are the lowest in 8 months.

Mr. Speaker, I know we are all passionate about this issue, and I 
care deeply about our troops and our Nation, and I know Mrs. Tauscher 
and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle do as well. But now is 
not the time to risk impeding the progress that we are making. Now is 
the time to continue building on the turnaround we


have made in the Anbar Province and the improvement we are seeing in 
Baghdad.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''no.''