---
---

# None
## `ad0a34a54f90f9fa915d4aee6342fa99`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Will the gentleman yield?

The arguments we were hearing today from our friends, two things that 
really struck me as funny, actually, it was so outrageous, one is, we 
are not fiscally responsible, Madam Speaker. That was the first 
argument is that we're not fiscally responsible. This is coming from a 
party who, in the last 6 years, Republican House, Republican Senate, 
Republican White House, borrowed more money from foreign interests than 
every President and Congress before them combined. Now we are going to 
get lectures on fiscal responsibility. Borrowing money from China, 
Japan, OPEC countries, South Korea, the list goes on and on. And we've 
only been in charge 5 months. We haven't even passed a bill yet and now 
they're saying we are fiscally irresponsible. It doesn't hold any 
water.

And then the other comment was that we are not spending the money 
properly. This is coming from the party that has been running the war 
in Iraq, where they are giving more money to Halliburton. Halliburton 
has already been fined for marking up food, trying to basically war 
profiteer off of what's going on in Iraq. The Pentagon lost a trillion 
dollars and nobody even knows where it is. And we're going to get 
lectures on how we are spending our money. Same group of people who 
oversaw Katrina, the disaster where people were dying because of the 
poor investment, poor management, poor execution, poor planning of this 
administration with a Congress that provided zero oversight, we are 
going to get lectures on how to spend money and how to run government. 
Doesn't hold any water.

Now, here's why I think, and I'm going to get out here on a limb here 
a little bit, Mr. Meek. Here is why I think our Republican friends are 
trying to filibuster and distract and throw up red flags and put some 
smoke into the air to try to distract, and mirrors, just to try to get 
everybody thinking differently.



Here is why I think. I want to just briefly review what we have done 
with our budgets out of committee. Some haven't passed yet, but some 
are on their way, and we are going to get these through, because the 
American people deserve it.

Our veterans budget, Mr. Meek, was the largest, and we all know the 
veterans' problems across the country, we don't have to outline them, 
the largest increase in veterans spending in the history of the VA. Our 
veterans who come back home will be taken care of.

Saying that we support our troops is not a punchline for us. It is 
something that we take to heart. Budgets are about priorities and 
values, and in our budgets we have the largest increase for veterans. 
We have programs that are funded in there for brain injuries, for 
posttraumatic stress, to make sure the drug supply stays safe for our 
veterans, and on and on and on. We fixed the Walter Reed problem, 
rehabilitation, prosthetics. Everything that is needed for our 
veterans, they got.

In the last 21 years, there has been a small coalition of veterans 
groups who have their own little budget that they submit to Congress. 
Never before has Congress met what they wanted in their budget, until 
this year. We not only met it, we surpassed it by $230 million. We went 
above and beyond even what the veterans groups were asking for, because 
that is the commitment that we have.

With that coming down the pike, if I was in the minority and been in 
charge for 16 years or 14 years and had a President, a Republican 
President, and didn't deliver on any of that, I wouldn't want to talk 
about the Democrat's success either. I would want to start all kinds of 
other fights and filibusters and do everything else.

That is just the beginning. In the education bill, we increased the 
Pell Grant by $600 or $700. In Ohio, for example, where Governor 
Strickland now passed a budget where there is a zero percent increase 
in Ohio college tuition next year and a zero percent the next year, it 
used to be 9 percent and 9 percent, you take that, if you are a student 
going to school in Ohio, you go from 9 percent increases to zero 
percent increases and a $700 bump on your Pell Grant, that is a tax cut 
for average families.

We have increased Community Health Centers, so poor and middle-class 
people can go to a Community Health Clinic, by $400 million. Thousands 
of people in America who didn't have access to healthcare will now have 
access to it, at least through a clinic.

EvenStart, Head Start, after school programs, all funded with 
increases from the Democratic Congress. We passed the minimum wage, Mr. 
Meek. We passed a $200 million-plus investment in alternative energy 
resources and research.

Now, I am done, but I just want to make the point that with all of 
this positive news going on, Mr. Meek, I wouldn't want to talk about 
our budgets either. I would filibuster anything to prevent the 
Democratic Congress from passing these bills, taking them to the 
American people and campaigning on them next year.