---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `ad1328937608131941b460de2d464a4b`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 12 March 2010`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam Speaker, as the tragic events of September 11, 
2001, demonstrated, the continued existence of the Taliban and 
terrorists in Afghanistan poses a threat to the security of the 
American people. We need to be eliminating those who are organizing to 
strike at the American people.

That is why we can't afford to ''double-down'' on a bad policy that 
infringes on the ability of our troops to successfully execute their 
mission. Using the men and women of our armed forces to secure ground 
subjects them unnecessarily to risks that we should not be taking.

Several of my colleagues have stated that to end this conflict would 
fail to honor those who have fought and died in Afghanistan. Yet, we 
all acknowledge that there isn't a single American soldier who has laid 
down his or her life for this country that isn't a hero.

Instead, I think of families like that of Kyle Coutu. Kyle was 20 
years old and had just graduated from William E. Tolman High School 
last June, when he was killed on February 18, 2010, in the Helmand 
Province during combat operations. How many more mothers like Melissa 
Coutu will have to bury their son or daughter? For how much longer will 
we ask America's youth to risk their lives for the people of 
Afghanistan?

Rather than put our troops in harm's way, the best way to honor them 
is to take care of them when they return home, ending veteran 
homelessness and unemployment, and fully funding veterans' health care, 
particularly for the treatment of mental health and PTSD.

Additionally, with limited resources, we can't afford to continue a 
mission in Afghanistan that doesn't move us forward. There are places 
around the world, like the Horn of Africa, where our commitment and 
resources could be put to a greater good. More importantly, every 
dollar spent in Afghanistan is a dollar that can't be invested here at 
home to invest in our children's education, rebuild our country's 
infrastructure, and create jobs for American workers.
