# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `ad32f81462616e80b78dfb4f4370edc6`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 5 November 2009`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, as the ranking member of the 
Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies 
Subcommittee, I appreciate the opportunity to speak on the bill before 
us. A lot of time and energy has gone into putting this legislation 
together, and I would like to thank Chairman Johnson and his staff for 
working hard to address the needs of our service members and veterans.

This is a bipartisan bill, and I can say with great confidence that 
this subcommittee makes sure that the priorities of all Senators, on 
both sides of the aisle, are evaluated and taken care of to the best of 
our ability.

As Chairman Johnson has pointed out, this Military Construction, 
Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill includes, 
for fiscal year 2010: $76.7 billion in discretionary spending, 
including $23.2 billion for military construction and $53.2 billion for 
our veterans; $55.8 billion in mandatory spending for veterans' 
benefits, and $1.4 billion for military construction projects to assist 
our troops in Afghanistan in their fight against terrorists and 
insurgents.

This legislation provides $23.2 billion for the Defense Department's 
military construction program. I am concerned that the DOD requested 
over $7 billion less for 2010, a 25 percent decrease from the previous 
year, and I hope this trend does not continue. Of all the funds we 
provide for our government, supporting the infrastructure needs of our 
soldiers is one of the most important I can think of.

I am pleased that our bill provides full funding for the Base 
Realignment and Closure actions at almost $7.5 billion. These funds are 
essential to bring our troops home, predominantly from Europe and 
Korea, and basing them in the United States. By fully funding BRAC we 
can help the DOD stay on schedule to achieve this goal by September 
2011.

I wish to point out as well that our legislation contains the 
necessary funds for the Defense Department program specially designed 
to help our service members who are forced to relocate in this harsh 
economic housing environment, the Homeowners Assistance Fund. Chairman 
Johnson has been instrumental in making this program a success.

This bill funds the Guard and Reserve at $264 million above the 
President's request. A significant number of the troops fighting the 
war on terror consist of Guard and Reserve members, so I am very glad 
we were able to provide additional resources for them.

This summer, as our Nation was preparing for its Fourth of July 
celebrations, I had the honor of visiting our troops in Iraq and 
Kuwait. I listened to their concerns and saw first hand how the 
facilities we provide in this bill are instrumental in their ability to 
carry out their mission.

This legislation contains almost $1.4 billion in emergency funding 
for the war in Afghanistan. The policies of this conflict have been 
passionately debated on the Senate floor in recent days. But I am sure 
we can all agree that--independent of our views of the war--we must 
provide the infrastructure needs of our sailors, soldiers, airmen and 
marines. This bill does that.

In addition, I would like to point out that this subcommittee is 
committed to making sure that our NATO allies fund their fair share of 
all joint projects. I can assure my colleagues, and the American 
people, that every MILCON facility shared by allied forces is evaluated 
for NATO reimbursement and that we push hard for cost sharing at every 
possible opportunity.

Our bill provides $109 billion for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, a 14 percent increase above fiscal year 2009. Veterans' 
healthcare is funded at $45 billion, and medical research is funded at 
$580 million. This bill also makes a significant investment in VA 
infrastructure needs, with nearly $5 billion for the maintenance and 
repair of VA medical facilities and $2 billion in new construction 
projects.

The Veterans Benefits Administration is funded at $56 billion to 
administer compensation, pension, and readjustment benefits earned by 
our veterans. We have fully funded the new education benefits provided 
by the post-9/11 educational assistance program, and included funding 
for 1,200 new claims processors to reduce the claims backlog.

This legislation addresses the many demands facing the Department of 
Veterans Affairs. It includes funding over 2009 levels to enhance 
outreach and services for mental health care, combat homelessness, 
further meet the needs of women veterans, and expand access to 
healthcare in rural areas. Finally, we included $48.2 billion in 
advance appropriations for veterans' medical care for fiscal year 2011. 
This funding will allow the Veterans Health Administration to better 
plan and budget for veterans' health care.

Congress has shown its resolve time and again to care for our 
nation's veterans and provide the infrastructure for our men and women 
in uniform. We


owe all of them our gratitude, and we will do our part to take care of 
them. I ask my colleagues to support this bill.

Again, I would like to thank Senators Inouye and Cochran for their 
support putting this bill together, and I would especially like to 
thank Chairman Johnson for his leadership and the hard work of his 
staff: Christina Evans, Chad Schulken, and Andy Vanlandingham.