---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `ad353e89b5e08c36e0b0920439368767`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 31 July 2007`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Madam President, I thank Chairman Baucus for his 
tireless effort here in really portraying what I think is a tremendous 
priority for so many of us in the Senate and certainly in the Finance 
Committee.

As a mother of twin boys--and I know our Presiding Officer is a 
mother of a daughter who is a year older than my boys--I know all too 
well of the importance of reliable health insurance coverage for 
children. My husband and I have experienced the sleepless nights 
looking after a sick child. But we also have the comfort of knowing 
that when dawn comes, we have the opportunity, through health 
insurance, to seek out health care through a pediatrician or, if it 
should be worse, to be able to go to the emergency room and know we are 
covered, to know we can seek that health care for our children when 
they need it the most, with the confidence that with that health 
insurance we can continue to care for their needs.

In situations such as these, health insurance coverage is critical 
not only to the lifelong health of a child but also to a family's peace 
of mind. I think that is what we are about here today--our ability as 
Senators to be able to step outside the box of being a Senator and 
really think about what it means to be a hard-working American, to be a 
parent, and to not just think of what it means to us and our families 
as Federal employees and what we have access to in health care but 
translating that to the needs of all hard-working


Americans and to understand how important it is to them and to their 
children too.

We have to, in this debate, step outside and put ourselves in the 
shoes of the hard-working Americans who need health insurance for their 
children. That peace of mind should not only belong to those families 
who can afford private health insurance; it should also belong to 
working families who are struggling to make ends meet in today's world, 
who are the strength of the fabric of this Nation, those hard-working 
families who are going to jobs day in and day out--and sometimes more 
than one job--to keep the needs of their families, as was listed by the 
Senator from New Jersey, to make sure their families stay whole.

Coming to the bottom of that list and recognizing how expensive 
health care costs are for their children, we need to make sure the 
fabric of this Nation stays strong. We do so by not only supporting 
those working families and their children but by establishing 
priorities in this country. That is why I rise to speak on behalf of 
the State Children's Health Insurance Program, or SCHIP, a Federal-
State partnership which today provides much needed health care coverage 
for more than 6 million children across this great country.

In conjunction with Medicaid, CHIP has been tremendously successful 
in reducing the number of uninsured children in my State and across our 
country. Since the program's inception 10 years ago, the number of 
children without health care coverage has dropped by one-third. That is 
something we can be proud of and that we can build on.

During that time, I am proud that Arkansas has become a national 
leader in reducing its number of uninsured children from over 20 
percent in 1997 to 10 percent today. Now, nearly 65,000 of Arkansas' 
children currently receive coverage through CHIP or, as we know it in 
Arkansas, ARKids First.

Despite this success, an estimated 9 million children remain 
uninsured, nearly two-thirds of whom are already eligible for CHIP or 
for Medicaid nationwide--9 million children, Madam President. Those 
children belong to parents just like us. Their parents care for them 
just as we try to care for our children--yet not having the comfort of 
knowing their health care needs could be and should be covered.

I am certainly proud that the Senate Finance Committee has recently 
taken steps to reach more of these children, and I do wish to commend 
Chairman Baucus and Senators Grassley, Rockefeller, and Hatch, as well 
as their staffs, for their incredible dedication, the vision and 
leadership they have shown on this issue, their tireless energy 
in sticking with coming together to bring about a compromise--a much 
needed compromise--and the extraordinary effort they have put forth 
particularly over the past few months, which has made renewal of CHIP 
much more of a reality for America's families.


The CHIP reauthorization package that was overwhelmingly approved in 
our Finance Committee--by a vote of 17 to 4--applies the lessons of the 
past 10 years and builds upon the success of the program by giving 
States more of the tools they need while preserving their flexibility 
to strengthen their program and ultimately cover more children. In 
doing so, it would provide an additional $35 billion over 5 years that 
will allow States to preserve coverage for the children who are 
currently enrolled, while reaching an additional 3.2 million uninsured 
low-income children.

This proposal would also provide much needed funding to States for 
outreach and enrollment efforts to reach many of those who are 
currently uninsured and yet eligible. It also takes steps to ensure 
that they get a healthy start by providing care for pregnant women and 
establishing pediatric quality measures to improve the level and 
efficiency of the care they do receive. How important that is as we 
have begun in this country to look at the quality measures of health 
care, particularly for our elderly. Why is it not equally important to 
look at the quality measures for the pediatric care that goes to our 
children?

I have long supported improving access to health care coverage for 
pregnant women, not only because it is vital to the health of mothers 
and infants, but it also often reduces future health care costs. What 
an incredible return on our money--to see expectant mothers going full-
term to deliver a child that has a much greater opportunity to perform, 
to be healthy, and to be less costly later in life due to health care 
needs. In fact, it was reported in 2005 that the socioeconomic costs--
medical, educational, and lost productivity--associated with preterm 
birth in the United States was at least $26.2 billion. Every year, more 
than 500,000 infants are born prematurely, an increasing number that 
now affects nearly one out of every eight babies.

This is of particular concern to me because, in recent reports, more 
than 13 percent of births in our State of Arkansas were premature, 
ranking it among the States with the highest incidence of preterm 
babies. So many of us have been faced with those choices. I know when I 
served in the House of Representatives and my husband and I were so 
excited to receive the news that we were expecting twins, I also 
received the news that at my age, and certainly the work environment I 
was in and all of the pressures, I was also at risk for a premature 
delivery. I had the wonderful opportunity to make a decision that I 
would not run for reelection and that I could minimize my job in order 
to do everything within my power to bring those children into this 
world in a safe manner.

I look across this great country, and not all working mothers have 
that opportunity. They don't have those choices to be able to step 
aside and do everything they possibly can with the health care they 
receive to bring their babies into this world in the healthiest 
fashion. One thing we can do is to provide them the prenatal care they 
need and the advice and consultation to be able to do what they can to 
ensure those babies are delivered after a full term.

By taking needed steps to improve access to care for pregnant women, 
I am confident we can make strides to improve health outcomes for them 
and for their children. If, in fact, we don't want to do it for the 
sake of bringing healthy babies into this world, who are going to be 
future leaders of this country, we should do it as an investment. The 
long-term investment of a healthier child being born makes so much more 
sense than the long-term cost of a premature delivery and the health 
care needs that child would have for the rest of his or her life.

The Finance Committee proposal would also provide the Federal 
authority and resources to invest in the development and testing of 
quality measures for children's health care. Of the 146 medical schools 
in this country, every one of them has a department in pediatrics. We 
can make an incredible investment in quality measures that would give 
us not only the outcome we want but also the cost savings in overall 
health care we so much desire.

This provision would help ensure that States and other payers, 
providers, and consumers have the clinical quality measures they need 
to assess and improve the quality and performance of children's health 
care services.

Additionally, the bill would allow some States to use income-
eligibility information from other Federal programs, such as school 
lunch programs, to speed up the enrollment of eligible children into 
CHIP or Medicaid. The Senator from New Mexico has done so much hard 
work on making good common sense out of the mounds and mounds of 
paperwork people already have to fill out, using the knowledge we 
already have and those mounds of paperwork to get those children 
enrolled in the program for which they already qualify. It would 
simplify the administrative process for States and certainly reduce the 
paperwork burdens on our families.


The bill would also provide greater access to much needed dental care 
for lower income children and would ensure that children enrolled in 
CHIP would have access to mental health care that is on par with the 
level of medical and surgical care they are currently provided.

As we look at our children and their growth, understanding the 
unbelievable essentials in dental care, not only so our children can 
get the nutrition they need but they can pay attention in school, they 
can get the education they need, which allows them to grow and be a 
part of this incredible Nation


in a productive way, the success of CHIP over the past 10 years is 
itself a great example of the things we can accomplish when we reach 
out across the aisle, when we work in a bipartisan way, when we come 
together on our priorities and put aside the partisan differences.

This bipartisan proposal we are considering today is another. We 
should all agree that providing health care for our children is 
certainly one area where partisan politics should be placed aside. 
There is no room for partisan politics as we address our children. 
After all, it is a moral issue, an investment in our Nation's most 
precious resource--our children; an investment in a future of our 
country, its leadership, and its productivity. Who can disagree with 
that?

As we move forward together to reauthorize this successful program, I 
am hopeful we can do so in the same bipartisan spirit that was 
demonstrated in the creation of this program, the 10-year 
implementation of this program, and in the recent reauthorization of 
this program in the Finance Committee.

It is unfortunate the President and the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services feel differently. In fact, their proposal to increase the CHIP 
funding by only $5 billion over the next 5 years falls so short of the 
funding needed to simply maintain coverage of those currently enrolled 
in the program. To justify their proposal, the administration actually 
claimed the number of uninsured children in our Nation was only 20 
percent of the estimates calculated by the nonpartisan CBO.

Instead of forcing over a million children--a million children--to be 
dropped from their current health insurance provider, shouldn't we all 
agree that at the very least absolutely no child should lose coverage 
as a result of reauthorization?

The President has been adamant about leaving no child behind when it 
comes to their education, but shouldn't we apply this to their health 
care as well? Shouldn't we recognize the reason, or a part of the 
reason, our No Child Left Behind in education has been less productive 
is because we failed to provide the resources--the much needed 
resources--to implement good policies, basic policies? It is fine to 
talk about these things, but if we don't put our money where our mouth 
is, the health care doesn't get to the children who need it.

Moreover, shouldn't we all move forward in covering as many of the 9 
million uninsured children we possibly can; finding the middle ground, 
as we have done in the Finance Committee? I wholeheartedly believe so, 
and that is why I rise in strong support of this legislation.

Some of my colleagues have raised concerns about our efforts to 
expand this successful program. They have argued the $35 billion 
compromise that was reached in the Finance Committee is too much money. 
You know what. It is going to cost us something to cover more children. 
Let us take a step back and get some perspective on how much money we 
are actually talking about.

Our current proposal to reauthorize CHIP provides a total of $60 
billion over 5 years--$25 billion in the baseline, with an increase of 
$35 billion. In contrast, our operations in Iraq are now estimated to 
cost taxpayers $10 billion per month. So for the amount of money, 
nonbudgeted money, we now spend in Iraq every 6 months, we can cover an 
estimated 10 million lower-income children with much needed health care 
for 5 years--5 years. We are talking about money that is completely 
offset--a program that is completely paid for.

How you spend your money--and this goes for families and for 
Government--tends to reflect your values and your priorities. We all 
have to look at where our priorities are in our own family, and we as 
Senators and stewards of this land and this great country and its 
resources have to set priorities as well, and they should reflect our 
values--our values and our priorities. So I ask my colleagues today: 
What could be a bigger priority than the well-being of our Nation's 
most precious resource, our children?

Look at our families, the families who are the fabric of this 
country. One of the things they need the most is time--time to be a 
family, to sit down to dinner with their children, to be able to go to 
a PTA meeting or a parent-teacher conference, to take a small vacation, 
to care for an aging parent. They need time to do that. It is not easy 
to find that time. If you are a single parent, perhaps a single mom, 
but even if you are a working family, a lower income working family, 
working two or three jobs to be able to hit that budget the Senator 
from New Jersey talks about, to make sure you can hit all those issues 
you have to deal with, whether it is rent or groceries or certainly any 
type of health care you could access, it takes time--time away from our 
families, the time needed to build strong families, to keep their 
children whole and focused on the good values we want our children to 
have.

Minimum wage was a great example. Minimum wage was much needed, with 
over 10 years of not having seen that increase. What an important role 
it plays in providing our families greater time to be a family. At a 
time when more and more Americans are struggling to find affordable 
health care, CHIP has allowed us to make coverage more accessible for 
millions of children, coverage that is critical to the lifelong health 
of a child and to a family's peace of mind. I urge each and every one 
of my colleagues to explore your own conscience, not just thinking 
about your family but thinking about the millions of American families 
out there today who want nothing less for their children than what we 
want for ours.

Let's set aside partisan influences and support this critical effort 
to invest in the health care of our children, not only for the future 
of our Nation but for the well-being of millions of American children 
in working-class, lower income families. They are depending on us, the 
stewards of this body, the stewards of this country, and it is time we 
fulfill our commitment to them. I urge my colleagues to join me in 
supporting legislation to expand health care coverage for children.

I have been proud to work with Chairman Baucus and Senator Grassley 
and others in this effort, and I certainly commend them for their 
leadership and good work. I look to this body to stand up and to show 
who it is we are and what it is we are made of on behalf of America's 
children.

I yield the floor.