---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `ad3fc146dc64531199142f8149c133a6`
`Mr. McMAHON — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. McMAHON. Madam Speaker, I rise as a supporter of our men and 
women in uniform who put their lives on the line every single day to 
strongly oppose H. Con. Res. 248.

Setting aside legitimate procedural objections to H. Con. Res 248, 
this is the wrong time to withdraw our troops from Afghanistan. 
Secretary Gates just wrapped up a visit to Afghanistan and our troops 
have successfully lifted the Taliban flag off of Marja, and are 
preparing to expand security to other Afghan regions.

We are just beginning to implement General McChrystal's strategy to 
drive insurgents, terrorists and narco-traffickers out of Afghanistan, 
where they have comfortably plotted against the U.S. for years. U.S. 
and International Security Assistance Forces are laying the groundwork 
for the next push into the Taliban heartland of Kandahar, as we speak. 
Securing Kandahar will allow us to secure Afghanistan. If we have a 
peaceful Kandahar, we will have a peaceful Afghanistan.

I support our Commander in Chief in his plan to send an additional 
30,000 troops to Afghanistan on December 1, 2009. It is time to give 
this strategy a chance. This Administration has made the elimination of 
Al-Qaeda and the stability of Afghanistan a top priority. In addition, 
many of our coalition partners particulary the United Kingdom, and 
Canada and Muslim allies like Pakistan, have also stepped up their 
engagement and cooperation. They are committed to the fight and we 
should be as well. They know that a stable Afghanistan will bring 
stability and security to Pakistan and all of South Asia.

Our troops now have the leadership and the vision to complete this 
mission. Their success militarily is working hand in hand with American 
and international humanitarian assistance and NGOs which are helping to 
educate women, clean drinking water and provide healthcare.

Obviously sending Americans to war is our most serious obligation as 
Members of Congress. But equally serious is our obligation to care for 
our veterans. In my first year in Congress, working with Members on 
both sides of the aisle, we have already secured a record amount in 
mental health funding for our troops and to expand the number of mental 
health professionals at the DoD. This Administration and Congress is 
committed to making sure that our Veterans receive the highest quality 
of care possible both in the field and at home.

Until then, our troops should be proud to help stabilize the region 
that has fanned the flames of radical hostility and extreme terrorist 
ideology that led to the horrors of September 11th. Afghanistan should 
never again be a launching pad for terrorist activities.

We are the United States, and it is our duty to fight for democracy 
and fight against terror. I urge my colleagues to vote against H. Con. 
Res. 248 today and give the Afghanistan mission the fighting chance to 
succeed.