# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `ad47cb6ad9ce12553e0ad69dca3f629b`
`Mr. OBEY — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, as was pointed out earlier, those who suggest 
that any efforts to add any items to what is called a military 
supplemental are somehow out of line are simply wrong. This legislation 
started out as a disaster relief bill. It went to the Senate, and they 
morphed it into a military supplemental, and we're simply now 
responding to that action.

I want to talk about the problems in Afghanistan. A year ago, I made 
the statement that while I was dubious about the mission in 
Afghanistan, I would give the President a year to see whether his 
policy would bear fruit. But I warned at the time that we could have 
the best possible policy in the world and, if we did not have the tools 
to implement it, it would be a failure. And I would suggest that the 
only two tools that we have available to use in that region of the 
world are the Pakistan Government and the Afghan Government; and I 
think it's safe to say that both of them have been less than a 
spectacular success, to say the least. Since then, I think it's also 
fair to say that events have gone downhill, especially in Afghanistan.

And in addition, since we're now spending $167 billion on these two 
wars, I think it's also obvious that we're having a profoundly negative 
effect on our ability to reinvest in and rebuild our own economy. And I 
think the time has come for new consideration.

Now, last December the President indicated that it was his intention 
to follow a policy which would begin to withdraw our troops from 
Afghanistan beginning in July of 2011. This amendment is meant to 
simply buttress that commitment, and what it says is this: It requires 
that in January, a new intelligence estimate be provided, and that 
after that is provided, the administration, by April 4, must respond to 
it by sending to the Congress an outline of its plans to follow the 
policy which they have announced which would begin to get us out of 
there starting in July of next year.

What this amendment also says is, if the administration decides to 
follow a different policy by, for instance, extending that date, then 
they cannot do that unless the Congress explicitly votes to allow the 
funds to be used for that purpose.

What I'm concerned about is this: What I can see happening is come 
next July, we can be told by the Pentagon, well, things are marginally 
better than we thought they would be and so we're going to need more 
time and that target date will be slipped. On the other hand, they can 
also say things are really going badly and so we obviously can't get 
out at this time. We need to have more time.

I want to know that there is a serious, determined commitment to 
withdraw our troops beginning in June of next year. That is more than 
ample time for the Pakistani Government and the Afghan Government to 
demonstrate whether they are capable of doing this mission or not.

I think it is obvious that we are not going to be able to rebuild our 
own country and make the investments we need here at home so long as 
we're continuing this mission in Afghanistan. And so I think this 
provides an orderly, rational, responsible, thoughtful way by which we 
can reach a conclusion to get out of that country rather than spending 
another 9 years before we finally face up to reality.

I thank the gentleman for the time.













 Disclosure of Earmarks




 The following table lists the congressional earmarks (as 


 defined in clause 9(e) of rule XXI) contained in the House 


 amendment to the Senate amendment to H.R. 4899. The House 


 amendment does not contain any limited tax or tariff benefits 


 as defined in paragraphs (f) or (g) of clause 9 of rule XXI.
