---
---

# INTRODUCING THE HEALTHY TRANSITION ACT OF 2008
## `ad654964f8c1fa42cb88cb10f4860222`
`Mr. STARK — 25 June 2008`

---


Mr. STARK. Madam Speaker, I rise to introduce legislation aimed at 
addressing the unique needs of young people with serious mental illness 
as they transition from adolescence into adulthood. Senator Gordon 
Smith and Senator Chris Dodd are introducing identical legislation in 
the Senate. We have an obligation to provide appropriate and effective 
mental health treatment and supports to young adults so that they can 
transition to healthy and successful adults.

Young adults suffering from mental illness fall through the cracks 
far too often. Senator Smith and I requested that the Government 
Accountability Office, GAO, examine this issue. The GAO recently issued 
their report and the findings should disturb us all. At least 2.4 
million young adults age 18-26 suffer from serious mental illness. 
Another 9.3 million have mild or moderate mental illness. Currently, 
there is no specific federal program aimed at these youth. Instead, we 
are left with a fragmented and ad hoc system that does not meet their 
unique needs. Not surprisingly, many of these youth are adrift without 
services, support, or guidance. They have lower education and 
employment rates than their peers and they are more likely to end up in 
jail or homeless. For youth who are aging out of foster care with no 
family supports the situation is particularly dire. One recent study 
found that these youth suffer from post traumatic stress disorder at 
rates similar to Iraq War veterans.

The GAO has clearly laid out the problem. But it is not enough to 
simply describe the current situation and become angry. Our outrage 
must lead to action. This legislation aims to change the tragic and 
unnecessary status quo and bring real support to millions of young 
people.

Some States are making strides to connect young adults with mental 
illness to systems that can assist them. The GAO documented 4 states--
Maryland, Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Mississippi--that are doing 
good work in this area. My home State of California is using dedicated 
mental health funding to specifically target adolescents and young 
adults with mental illness. I am pleased that states are undertaking 
this important work, but the Federal Government should and must play a 
role. There needs to be improved coordination among the many Federal 
agencies that provide services to these youth. Most critically, there 
needs to be Federal support and assistance to states committed to doing 
the right thing and creating innovative approaches to serve these 
youth. The Healthy Transition Act will to do just that.

This bill builds on the successful Partnership for Youth in 
Transition Demonstration Program. It will provide grant funding to 
states to develop statewide coordination plans to assist adolescents 
and young adults with serious mental health disorders to acquire the 
skills and resources they need to make a healthy transition into 
adulthood. The state must specifically plan for youth who are in the 
juvenile justice system, the child welfare system, and those who have 
an education plan under the Individuals with Disabilities Education 
Act. The bill will also provide grant funding for states to 
successfully implement their plans and create sustainability and 
comprehensive systems of care. Finally, the legislation will create a 
Committee of Federal Partners. The Committee will include 
representatives from all agencies that serve young adults as well as 
representatives from consumer and family advocacy organizations. The 
Federal Partners will evaluate the programs, provide technical 
assistance, and report to Congress on the progress being made.



As a Nation, our children are our greatest and most precious 
resource. We should measure ourselves by how well we equip them to 
succeed and lead healthy and fulfilling lives. For young people with 
mental health disorders, we have an obligation to provide the supports 
and resources they need to make a healthy transition. This bill is a 
crucial step toward fulfilling that obligation.
