---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `ad6e69b6a5c7269f2abd1af74e42afd7`
`Mr. ROCKEFELLER — 30 January 2009`

---


Mr. ROCKEFELLER. Mr. President, I rise today to reintroduce 
legislation designed to fix the personnel laws that


cover the Department of Veterans Affairs health care professionals, 
including registered nurses, physicians, physician assistants, 
dentists, podiatrists, optometrists, and dental assistants. I am proud 
to have the support of my colleagues, Senators Webb, Brown, Mikulski, 
and Sanders.

Whenever I visit VA Medical Centers and meet with veterans, I hear 
wonderful stories about nurses and other VA health care professionals 
who work long and hard to provide care to our veterans. Too often, our 
health care professionals are working under real stress due to lack of 
funds or staff shortages. Almost 22,000 of the registered nurses caring 
for our veterans will be eligible to retire by 2010. Even more stunning 
is that 77 percent of all resignations of nurses occur within the first 
5 years. This is a clear signal that more must be done to retain VA 
nurses and quality health care staff. Anyone involved in health care 
understands the important role that nurses play in the quality of care 
and patient satisfaction.

The goal of this bill is to support the VA health care professionals 
who work hard to provide quality care to our veterans. The bill seeks 
to return to the partnership agreement of the 1990s between VA 
management and workforce. Flexible scheduling and basic fairness from 
management are key issues that must be addressed to recruit and retain 
a strong workforce. Morale is important in every workplace, and 
particularly in a VA Medical Center.

West Virginia has four VA Medical Centers, each with a dedicated team 
of health care professionals. I have met with the nurses and other 
professionals to hear their requests for flexible scheduling. I believe 
that we should restore the management partnership and work hard to 
retain our dedicated team of health professionals for our aging 
veterans, and those newly returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, with 
both physical and mental wounds of war, that deserve experienced VA 
care.
