# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `ad755603744edd03cf7a87a047e4dca3`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 20 May 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Madam President, I thank my friend from South Carolina 
for his kind words, first, but also for working together on this in a 
bipartisan way. Senator Graham serves in the Senate, but he also serves 
in the U.S. Air Force. When we travel with him, he usually remains 
behind to do some time and be of service in the battle zones. That is 
the kind of person he is. He is an extremely skilled lawyer.

We approached this trying to do what was right from a legal point of 
view but also understanding what the President, to his great credit, 
understood and expressed in the decision he has made on these photos. 
These are old photos. They portray, I fear, behavior that is 
unacceptable and, in fact, has been made illegal by the Detainee 
Treatment Act and the Military Commissions Act, which Senator Graham 
played the leading part in drafting. This behavior portrayed in the 
pictures already has also been made illegal by Executive order of 
President Obama. So what purpose is served by putting these pictures 
out now? What good purpose? None. It is a kind of voyeurism, frankly, 
to see the pictures just for the sake of seeing the pictures. Maybe in 
a normal time that would be OK; it probably would be. Disclosure and 
transparency are values our country, our Government, holds high. But 
there is something different now, and this is what President Obama 
recognizes. We are at war. When you are at war, you have to ask the 
question the President asked General Petraeus, General Odierno, and 
others: Will the public release of these pictures endanger America, 
American military personnel, and American Government personnel serving 
overseas?

The answer came back loud and clear: Yes, it will. So the President, 
with strength and decisiveness, stepped onto what I am sure he knew was 
politically controversial ground. He did what he thought was right for 
the country as Commander in Chief. As Senator Graham said, we applaud 
him greatly for that. We are at war, and you don't do the things when 
you are at war that you might do at other times.

This proposal basically codifies into law the process President Obama 
suggested in reaching the decision he made to fight the release of 
these pictures.

Last week, the President made exactly the right decision as Commander 
in Chief that will protect our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan and 
elsewhere and make it easier for them to carry out the missions that we 
have asked them to do.

After consulting with General Petraeus, General Odierno and others, 
the President decided to fight the release of photographs that depict 
the treatment of detainees in U.S. custody. Those photographs are the 
subject of a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit filed by the American 
Civil Liberties Union.

Last fall, the Second Circuit court of appeals ordered the release of 
those photographs. Instead of appealing that decision to the Supreme 
Court, government lawyers agreed to release the images as well as 
others that were part of internal Department of Defense investigations.

I strongly believe that the President's decision to fight the release 
of the photographs was the right one. Today, Senator Graham and I 
introduced this amendment to H.R. 2346, the supplemental appropriations 
bill for Iraq and Afghanistan, that will codify the President's 
decision and establish a procedure to prevent the detainee photos from 
being released.

Before the President decided to fight the Second Circuit decision, 
Senator Graham and I sent a letter to the President making the case 
that the release of the photographs serves no public good.

The behavior depicted in those photographs has been prohibited by 
Congress in the Detainee Treatment Act and the Military Commissions Act 
as well as by Executive orders issued by President Obama. Meanwhile, 
the Department of Defense has investigated the allegations of detainee 
abuse for the purpose of holding those responsible accountable.

We also know that the release of the photographs will make our 
service men and women deployed overseas less safe. There is compelling 
evidence that the images depicting detainee abuse at Abu Ghraib was a 
great spur to the insurgency in Iraq and made it harder for our troops 
to succeed in their mission there.

Now we learned valuable lessons from those pictures. And as I said, 
Congress and this President have taken steps to prevent that abuse from 
ever happening again.

But the same is not true about these pictures. These pictures depict 
past abuses that have already been addressed and we know that the 
release will only empower the propaganda operations of al-Qaida and 
other Islamist terrorist organizations.

Even before 9/11, terrorist groups like al-Qaida recognized the 
immense value of using propaganda to recruit and radicalize followers 
around the world. Since 9/11, the al-Qaida propaganda operation has 
only gotten more sophisticated. Should pictures like these be released, 
we know that they will be circulated immediately on al-Qaida connected 
Web sites and many other Web sites that readily post images just like 
this.

And to be clear, it is not al-Qaida leadership we are worried about--
they are committed to destroying America regardless of what happens 
with these photos. Rather it is the thousands of


young men--and some women--around the world who may not otherwise be 
inclined to sympathize with or support al-Qaida but may change their 
minds after seeing these photos. Those recruits are the ones that keep 
al-Qaida and other Islamist terrorist groups vibrant and capable of 
planning and executing attacks against us.

By introducing this legislation today, we do not condone the behavior 
depicted in the photographs. We expect that those responsible for the 
mistreatment of detainees will be held accountable. And that is exactly 
what the Department of Defense has done with the internal 
investigations it has conducted.

This bill--the Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act--would 
establish a procedure just like the one that led to the President's 
decision not to release the photos.

This legislation would authorize the Secretary of Defense, after 
consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, to certify to the 
President that the disclosure of photographs like the ones at issue in 
the ACLU lawsuit would endanger the lives of our citizens or members of 
the Armed Forces or civilian employees of the U.S. Government deployed 
abroad.

The certification would last 5 years and could be renewed by the 
Secretary of Defense if the threat to American personnel continues. 
Also, the language in the bill is clear that it would apply to the 
current ACLU lawsuit that gave rise to the President's decision last 
week.

Let me state clearly that we cannot become complacent about the stark 
reality that we are still at war with enemies who continue to seek to 
attack America and kill Americans. In the heated partisan environment 
in Washington, we are unfortunately sometimes more engaged in finger 
pointing and recriminations than being focused on defeating the vicious 
determined enemy we face.

I applaud President Obama for the actions he has taken in the past 
week on the photos and the military commissions and I believe that this 
legislation will provide him with an important tool to assist him in 
leading the war on terror.

Bottom line: I hope, again, this can be a bipartisan amendment, which 
it is, but I hope it will be supported by Members across the aisles. 
When we do that, we are all going to be saying we know we are at war 
and that we have no higher responsibility than to protect the security 
of our country and our military personnel, which would be endangered if 
these pictures go out.

For a quick moment, I speak as chairman of the Homeland Security 
Committee, which I am privileged to lead. These pictures will be a 
recruiting device for al-Qaida and the rest of the terrorist ilk. These 
pictures will go up instantaneously on jihadist terrorist recruiting 
Web sites. Not just people elsewhere in the world but people in the 
United States will be drawn to those Web sites and perhaps recruited 
through these pictures into a life of terrorism, where the essential 
target will be America and Americans. There is no reason to let that 
happen, and this amendment will make sure, in an orderly and fair way, 
that it doesn't happen while we are at war.

Again, I thank my friend from South Carolina. I gather we are waiting 
for word on whether we can introduce the amendment soon.