---
---

# None
## `ad8572e055e6cf2d82a7550b4a00565d`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 15 November 2010`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor United States Army 
Sergeant First Class Todd M. Harris, who was killed in action on 
November 3, 2010.

A native of Tucson, Arizona, Todd enlisted in the Army in 1998. A 
decorated combat veteran and graduate of the U.S. Army's Special 
Forces, Airborne, and Air Assault Schools, he was assigned to the 87th 
Infantry Battalion 1st Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division at 
Fort Drum, NY. He was on his fifth deployment which included two tours 
in Iraq and two in Afghanistan, when he was killed by small arms fire 
in Badgdis Province, in northwestern Afghanistan. Among his many 
decorations, he earned the Army Commendation Medal, the Army 
Achievement Medal and the Purple Heart. He was one of our Nation's most 
elite, best and bravest.

We remember Todd and offer our deepest condolences and sincerest 
prayers to his family. My words cannot effectively convey the feeling 
of great loss nor can they offer adequate consolation. However, it is 
my hope that in future days, his family may take some comfort in 
knowing that Todd made a difference in the lives of many others and 
serves as an example of a competent and caring leader and friend that 
will live on in the hearts and minds of all those he touched.

This body and this country owe Todd and his family a debt of 
gratitude, and it is vital that we remember him and his service to his 
country.

Sergeant First Class Todd Harris is survived by his mother, Willa; 
father, Samuel; son, Kai; and daughter, McKenna.
