---
---

# CORPORAL JACOB HENRY TURBETT
## `adc526f9f1ff8c097ff3c34356668694`
`Mr. McCOTTER — 25 February 2010`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. Madam Speaker, today I rise to honor Corporal Jacob 
Henry Turbett, a courageous and noble Marine, who died on February 13 
at the age of 21. Corporal Turbett lost his life while bravely 
supporting combat operations in the Helmand Province, Afghanistan.

 Corporal Turbett was a member of the Second Combat Engineer 
Battalion, Second Marine Division, II Marine Expeditionary Force based 
in Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. He was a 2007 graduate of Canton High 
School and took part in Civil Air Patrol. He came from a celebrated 
military family. His grandfather, cousin and two of his uncles were in 
the Marines. His uncle was in the Navy and his sister, Jaime Turbett, 
started boot camp in the Navy only ten days before her brother was 
killed. Corporal Turbett followed in these proud footsteps by 
completing tours of duty in Bangladesh and Iraq. Additionally, he was 
stationed in Okinawa, Japan. He was a hard worker, a proud and brave 
American, and a loving husband to his wife Crystal, whom he married in 
July 2008. Along with his wife and sister he is survived by his mother, 
Sheila, his father, Richard and his brother, Joe Marsh, who is a 
sheriff's deputy in Humboldt County, California.

 Corporal Turbett sacrificed everything for his country in Operation 
Enduring Freedom. To his fellow soldiers, his family and friends, and 
to everyone who knew and loved him, he was a dedicated member of his 
community who answered the higher calling to serve his country.

 Madam Speaker, during his lifetime, Corporal Turbett enriched the 
lives of everyone around him by employing energy, leadership, and 
courage in everything he set out to do. As we bid farewell to this 
exceptional individual, I ask my colleagues to join me in remembering 
and honoring his contributions and years of devoted service to his 
community and our country.
