---
---

# None
## `adc5f4456916f25c1f5c8c4601ab4c4e`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 23 May 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you. What we are doing, you are 
absolutely right, Mr. Ryan, is creating an incubator for al Qaeda. That 
is exactly what has occurred. In fact, if you recall, we heard a few 
years ago a lot of back and forth from the President about whether he 
did or didn't say that the reason that we actually went into Iraq was 
because of the connection, supposed connection, between Saddam Hussein 
and al Qaeda. Then I know Tony Snow, the White House Communications 
Director, has said no, we never did say there was any connection 
between Saddam Hussein and al Qaeda. Now, yesterday and this morning at 
the Coast Guard Academy graduation, now, finally, how many years into 
it, he can hang his hat on there being a connection between al Qaeda 
and our involvement in Iraq.

Why? Because he created that situation there. Because we created an 
incubator and a hotbed that is an environment for that. Of course, if 
you have a culture like that, and I mean the culture in which bacteria 
will grow, just like a petri dish, if you create a petri dish like that 
and culture it, of course you are going to see the bacteria grow. If 
you create an environment in which bacteria can grow, it is going to 
explode like wildfire.

No wonder. It boggles my mind why he believes that what he is saying 
is not transparent to the American people. It certainly is transparent 
and evident in the polling numbers, because he has literally an 
approval rating in terms of the way he has handled this war that is 
below 30 percent now.

You would think that politically we would delight in that as 
Democrats. But it actually makes me sad, because how can a President be 
effective on any other issues when he clearly won't even be able to get 
the American people to listen to what he is saying because they are so 
soured on the direction that he has taken this country? That makes it 
very difficult for us to even reach out in a bipartisan way and attempt 
to work with him, because he has no credibility at all. He has his own 
party Members who are finding it very difficult to do anything in terms 
of their agenda domestically, and we don't see any outreach. He has 
created an impossible situation, Mr. Meek.