---
---

# HEALTH CARE PRIORITIES
## `add3584c27025a767af237e94b1dff8e`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Madam Speaker, this morning, The Washington Post reports 
that States across this country are forced to start preparing to cut 
hundreds of thousands of children off of children's health care because 
Republicans in this House and President Bush have put children's health 
care on the bottom of their priority list. Unfortunately, we've seen 
this movie before. When States faced shortfalls and health care for 
children was threatened earlier this year, States were forced to take 
steps that would have denied hundreds of thousands of children health 
care. And once again, the administration failed to lead, and only 
Democratic efforts to fund the State children's health care in the 
supplemental appropriations saved us from that catastrophe.

From day one, the administration has adopted a policy of benign 
neglect when it comes to children's health care. In fact, the 
President's current plan would cut 1 million children from health care.

Now Republicans in this House have a chance to change that policy. On 
Thursday, Republicans can join Democrats and Republicans and give 10 
million children the care that they need for the future. In fact, I 
always find it amazing that Republicans will give $480 million to the 
war in Iraq, no questions asked, but when it comes to 10 million kids' 
health care, they have a lot of questions.

The choice is simple, 10 million children in States across the 
country are counting on the House Republicans to make the right choice 
for their future.
