---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT OF 2009
## `adde21f05059f310694b13975dae82d0`
`Mr. COBURN — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. COBURN. The State Department Bureau of Legislative Affairs 
opposes this amendment. It lists a number of programs as reasons to 
support the U.N. and oppose the Coburn amendment. Many of the programs 
and activities the State Department listed have experienced severe 
problems in execution or are taking credit for activities by national 
governments or private entities.

Let's take the recent elections in Afghanistan. The United Nations 
cannot account for tens of millions of dollars provided to the Afghan 
election commission, according to two U.N. audits--these are 
confidential; they weren't released; we just happened to be fortunate 
enough to have people who would give them to us--and interviews with


current and former senior diplomats. The Afghan election commission, 
with over $20 million in U.N. funding and hundreds of millions of 
dollars in U.S. funding, facilitated and helped mass election fraud and 
operated ghost polling places.

Should we keep sending them money for incompetence, waste, and fraud?

''Everybody kept sending money'' to the elections commission, said 
Peter Galbraith, the former deputy chief of the U.N. mission in 
Afghanistan.




 Nobody put the brakes on. U.S. taxpayers spent hundreds of 


 millions of dollars on a fraudulent election.


This is a deputy to the senior U.N. official in Afghanistan. He was 
fired last month. He protested the fraud and he got fired by the U.N., 
that wonderfully competent organization.

As of April 2009, the U.N. had spent $72.4 million supporting the 
electoral commission, with $56.7 million of that money coming from the 
U.S. Agency for International Development. The Special Inspector 
General for Afghanistan Reconstruction states that the United States 
provided at least $263 million in funding for that election.

In one instance, the United Nations Development Programme paid $6.8 
million for transportation costs in areas where no U.N. officials were 
present. We paid transportation costs, but no U.N. officials were 
present. Why did we pay it? Where did that money go? Where is the 
money?

Overall, the audits found that U.N. monitoring of U.S. taxpayer funds 
was ''seriously inadequate.''

In other words, it is there, they send it out, they don't have any 
idea, but you can bet well-connected people at the U.N. are making 
millions off U.S. dollars.

How about the monitoring of nuclear programs in North Korea and Iran? 
In 2002, the North Korean Government used United Nations Development 
Programme money--UNDP money or aid--to purchase--this is aid for them 
for development from the U.N.--they purchased conventional arms and 
ballistic missiles. With money we gave the U.N., the U.N. turns around, 
gives it to North Korea, and they buy missiles and arms. There is a 
real problem at the U.N. We will not face up to it.

It also transferred millions of dollars in cash to the Government of 
North Korea, with no oversight on how the money was spent--no 
oversight, just handed them millions of dollars in cash.

In September 2009, North Korea announced to the United Nations 
Security Council that it was almost complete in weaponizing nuclear 
materials from its nuclear reactor. Last week, North Korea announced 
the processing was complete.

We helped finance it through the United Nations. We helped finance it 
through the United Nations.

As of this morning, Iran had rejected the U.N. offer to send enriched 
uranium out of the country to prevent it from developing nuclear 
weapons.

We don't know how much U.N. money has gone in there yet, but I 
promise I will try to find out. But I can guarantee that millions of 
our dollars have been wasted that could pay for our veterans or we can 
borrow it from our children.

U.N. contribution: Funding 17 U.N. peacekeeping operations, including 
those in Haiti, Liberia, Lebanon, Darfur, and the Democratic Republic 
of Congo.

U.N. peacekeeping operations are plagued by rape and sexual 
exploitation of refugees. From 1994 forward, 68 separate instances of 
rape, prostitution, and pedophilia--68 separate times--and we pay half 
the U.N. peacekeeping costs. We don't manage the money; the U.N. 
manages the money.

What would happen if U.S. troops were doing that? Yet we have no 
control.

In 2006, reported BBC News: Peacekeepers in Haiti and Liberia were 
involved in exploitation of refugees. You can read that in the BBC News 
of November 30, 2006, if you want to look it up.

In 2007, leaked reports indicate the U.N. has caught 200 peacekeepers 
for sex offenses in the past 3 years, ranging from rape to assault on 
minors. Not one of them has been prosecuted, not one.

Just this month, Human Rights Watch reported that Congolese Armed 
Forces, supported by U.N. peacekeepers in the eastern Democratic 
Republic of Congo, have brutally killed hundreds of civilians and 
committed widespread rape in the past 3 months in a military operation 
backed by the United Nations. That is this month. Yet we continue to 
send billions of dollars every year to the United Nations.