# EARMARK DISCLOSURES
## `ade79821a34b4698094f339c18748bdb`
`Mr. LATHAM — 31 July 2009`

---


Mr. LATHAM. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the new House Republican 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information.

Bill Number: H.R. 3288--Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010

Project Name: Alice Road

Amount Provided: $750,000

Account: FHWA TCSP--Transportation & Community & System Preservation

Recipient: Iowa Dept of Transportation

Recipient's Street Address: 800 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50010

Description: This funding would be used for the constructing of a 6-
lane arterial blvd. as part of a north-south economic development 
corridor.

Bill Number: H.R. 3288--Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010

Project Name: Ames Intermodal Facility

Amount Provided: $350,000

Account: FTA--Buses & Bus Facilities

Recipient: Ames Transit Agency



Recipient's Street Address: 1700 University Blvd. Ames, IA 50010

Description: This project would construct an intermodal 
transportation facility that would consolidate three essential 
transportation functions in Ames, IA. within a single, intermodal 
facility (intercity bus operations, public transit and parking law 
enforcement). The funds would accommodate the design phase of this 
project, in support of a multi-modal and ''green'' transportation 
resource. Funding would move the project forward.

Bill Number: H.R. 3288--Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010

Project Name: Ames Transit Facility Expansion

Amount Provided: $500,000

Account: FTA--Buses & Bus Facilities

Recipient: Ames Transit Agency

Recipient's Street Address: 1700 University Blvd. Ames, IA 50010

Description: The current bus storage facility is built for 25 
vehicles; the facility now houses 70 vehicles on the same site, 
crowding both storage and maintenance operations. The new facility 
would be built on the existing site or a satellite site.

Bill Number: H.R. 3288--Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010

Project Name: Earthworks Engineering Research Center--EERC

Amount Provided: $500,000

Account: Transportation Planning, Research, and Development

Recipient: Iowa State University

Recipient's Street Address: 1750 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011

Description: The EERC is an effort that does research in the area of 
geo & construction engineering approaches to U.S. civil infrastructure 
needs. The research initiatives are aimed at finding better ways to 
evaluate those technologies and techniques used in earth moving related 
to new and improved transportation infrastructure. This project is all 
the more relevant as we approach solutions to infrastructure needs.

Bill Number: H.R. 3288--Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010

Project Name: Iowa Highway 92 Reconstruction

Amount Provided: $750,000

Account: FHWA TCSP--Transportation & Community & System Preservation

Recipient: Iowa Dept of Transportation

Recipient's Street Address: 800 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50010

Description: The project would consist of improvements to Iowa 
Highway 92 located in Warren County, Iowa. Project would begin approx. 
1,000' west of Warren County Road R63 and extend east for approximately 
1.3 miles to the city of Indianola. This project is necessary because 
the existing highway no longer meets current roadway design standards, 
and has areas of limited passing and sight distance. The area has an 
above average crash rate.

Bill Number: H.R. 3288--Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010

Project Name: Jefferson, Iowa Streetscape

Amount Provided: $385,000

Account: HUD EDI

Recipient: City of Jefferson

Recipient's Street Address: 220 Chestnut St. Jefferson, IA 50129

Description: This is phase I of a multi-phase streetscape initiative 
that includes underground wiring for signal controls, sidewalk re-
facing and general improvements from the back of curbs to building 
fences in a four-block area around the Greene County Courthouse.

Bill Number: H.R. 3288--Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010

Project Name: Jet Engine Technology Inspection to Support Continued 
Airworthiness--JET

Amount Provided: $700,000

Account: Research (FAA)

Recipient: Iowa State University

Recipient's Street Address: 1750 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011

Description: The JET program at Iowa State Univ. develops advanced 
inspection techniques for jet engine components to enable the use of 
more fuel efficient engine technologies, and to ensure that new 
material & design approaches do not compromise safety. Aviation safety 
is important to the industry, particularly as new materials are driven 
close to margins of safety.

Bill Number: H.R. 3288--Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010

Project Name: Marshalltown Bus Replacement

Amount Provided: $315,000

Account: FTA--Buses & Bus Facilities

Recipient: City of Marshalltown

Recipient's Street Address: 24 N. Center St. Marshalltown, IA 50158

Description: The City of Marshalltown is seeking to replace one 
''low-floor'' bus that is 17 years old. The funding is needed to assist 
in the purchase of a replacement bus for use as part of the city public 
transportation fleet.

Bill Number: H.R. 3288--Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010

Project Name: Roger Snedden Dr. Extension/Grade Separation--Phase 1

Amount Provided: $1,000,000

Account: FHWA TCSP--Transportation & Community & System Preservation

Recipient: Iowa Dept of Transportation

Recipient's Street Address: 800 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50010

Description: This project is oriented toward safety improvement with 
the reconstruction of Industrial Park Road, including the widening of 
this heavily traveled road, and planned construction of a railroad 
overpass. Funding is needed for reconstruction of Industrial Park Rd, 
in anticipation of overpass construction. The overpass grade separation 
will allow safe crossing over a busy railroad switchyard, improving 
safety and environmental impacts.

Bill Number: H.R. 3288--Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010

Project Name: West Grand Avenue Extension

Amount Provided: $750,000

Account: FHWA TCSP--Transportation & Community & System Preservation

Recipient: Iowa Dept of Transportation

Recipient's Street Address: 800 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50010

Description: This project is comprised of three roadway segments that 
will be part of the transportation infrastructure in SE Dallas County, 
IA. The roadway corridor improvements will provide access from I-35 to 
a technology park and, ultimately, connect to I-80 and the SW Beltway 
in Madison County, IA. The funding in the bill is for necessary 
planning and environmental reports.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Project Name: Portable Rapid Bacterial Warfare Detection Unit

Amount Provided: $4,000,000

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

Recipient: Advanced Analytical Technologies, Inc.

Recipient's Street Address: 2901 South Loop Drive, Ames, IA 50010

Description: The project objective is to develop portable 
instrumentation that provides biological warfare identification in 
drinking water samples in hours or minutes instead of days. This 
technology provides the rapid response needed to protect our troops 
from exposure to harmful agents on the battlefield, and could also have 
homeland security applications. For example, early bird flu virus 
identification in remote areas could help avert a pandemic flu 
scenario. This technology would provide for the rapid detection of 
biological warfare agents both domestically and internationally.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Project Name: Shared Vision

Amount Provided: $3,000,000

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation--Army

Recipient: Mechdyne Corporation.

Recipient's Street Address: 11 East Church Street, Marshalltown IA 
50158

Description: The project objective is to develop software and 
hardware to achieve a capability to provide all levels of military 
command with access to real-time, visual information about a battle 
space, for use in mission planning and after action review. The result 
will be a battlefield-ready Army Battle Command System that integrates 
information collected using a wide range of methods (reconnaissance 
imagery, direct surveillance, sensors, etc.) to create virtual 
representations of a given area, providing an operational picture for 
all mission phases. The request will provide funding needed to proceed 
with field-testing and evaluation of the system, the next stage of 
development with the U.S. Army.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Project Name: Wireless Medical Monitoring System (WiMed)

Amount Provided: $3,000,000

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation--Army

Recipient: Athena GTX

Recipient's Street Address: 3630 SW 61st Street, Suite 395

Description: The purpose of the project is to greatly improve 
casualty care in combat situations, where medics are unable to 
effectively monitor injured soldiers' conditions. Current medical 
triage monitors and vital signs data tracking tools are complex, heavy, 
and have numerous wires with bulky connections. Wounded soldiers in 
Iraq will see care within one hour, and in Afghanistan the time may 
exceed four hours. There are often extensive delays in air evacuations 
during fire fights and a definitive lack of medical state monitoring.


 The Wireless Medical Monitoring System ensures that medical triage can 
be performed effectively by medics on the battlefield, and that medical 
information about the casualty is retained to improve treatment 
following evacuation. The system includes a stick-on sensor that 
integrates pulse oximetry, blood pressure, temperature, skin humidity, 
and electrocardiograms into a single unit. Information from these units 
is broadcast to a single monitoring screen used by the medic, using Wi-
Fi technology. The U.S. Army and the National Trauma Institute are 
currently conducting comprehensive clinical trials across numerous 
Level 1 Trauma Centers using this system.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Project Name: HyperAcute Vaccine Development

Amount Provided: $4,500,000

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation--Army

Recipient: BioProtection Systems Corporation

Recipient's Street Address: 2901 S. Loop Drive, Suite 3360, Ames, IA 
50010

Description: The project objective is to develop anti-viral vaccines 
for use against Ebola, Crimean Congo and other biological warfare 
agents. Although millions of dollars have been spent on Biological 
Defense over the past several years, only a handful of vaccines/
medications have been developed to counter known threats. 
Unfortunately, most have proven to be weak and impractical to 
administer because they require multiple doses for protection or 
treatment. Importantly, these vaccines would not protect against 
genetically engineered biological weapons, which are relatively easy to 
produce. The vaccine technology is being developed to (1) enhance 
current vaccines, making them more effective and practical for use, (2) 
generate vaccines for known threats where a vaccine does not exist, and 
(3) develop a vaccine platform that could be adapted for newly 
developed biological agents. This request covers the third year in a 
three-year development plan for this vaccine technology, which was 
selected by the Department of Defense to satisfy existing military 
requirements, and has received funding through the National Institutes 
of Health, and the Defense Threat Reduction Agency.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Project Name: Advanced Live, Virtual, and Constructive (LVC) Training 
Systems

Amount Provided: $3,500,000

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation--Army

Recipient: Iowa State University

Recipient's Street Address: 1750 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2035

Description: The Virtual Reality Applications Center (VRAC) located 
at Iowa State University has a scientific team leading research in the 
development of advanced software prototypes that utilize immersive 
virtual warfighting environments, in collaboration with the U.S. Army. 
Keeping up with the unique demands of urban combat and ever-changing 
environments in counterinsurgency warfare requires flexible and 
adaptive training systems that can be modified rapidly and deployed 
effectively in the field. This project is intended to help the 
Department of Defense meet its training objective to ensure soldiers 
can improvise and adapt to emerging challenges.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Project Name: Multi-Utility Materials for Army Future Combat Systems

Amount Requested: $1,000,000

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation--Army

Recipient: Iowa State University

Recipient's Street Address: 1750 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2035

Description: This initiative is designed to enable Iowa State 
University, in partnership with Florida A&M University and the South 
Dakota School of Mines & Technology, to support the U.S. Army in 
developing and evaluating weapons and protective armor materials, with 
emphasis on survivability. This includes the development of new 
materials and nondestructive techniques to assure that the materials 
have the desired properties to provide the best and most reliable 
physical protection to the soldier.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Project Name: Low Cost GPS Receivers

Amount Provided: $4,000,000

Account: Defense Production Act

Recipient: Rockwell Collins

Recipient's Street Address: 400 Collins Rd., Cedar Rapids, IA, 52498

Description: This initiative is funded under the ''Defense Production 
Act,'' which ensures that certain products are manufactured in 
America--for national security reasons. The primary objective of the 
program is to bring production of the ''substrate'' used to construct 
military GPS microchips back to the U.S. from overseas. The funding 
will also further development of the next generation military GPS 
receiver, which will be smaller, more accurate, more secure, and 
cheaper to produce. Cost savings will allow the purchase of a higher 
number of receivers so that each squad of soldiers could have one. Due 
to the current shortage of military GPS units, soldiers are purchasing 
and using commercial handheld devices that are highly vulnerable to 
electronic interference, jamming, and spoofing.
