# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `adf6ed1f9812fddeed04efc57ea5241e`
`Mr. JOHNSON of Illinois â€” 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. JOHNSON of Illinois. Mr. Speaker and Members of the House, I 
stand in opposition to this rule and in sincere but deep opposition to 
this $63 billion massive spending bill, and particularly the war 
spending component of the bill.

I speak, I believe, on the behalf of the hundreds of thousands of 
brave men and women who serve America in the Middle East with neither a 
defined objective nor the ability to assess victory or defeat; and on 
behalf of families of our military personnel around the world who have 
lost their fathers or their mothers or their sons or their daughters in 
a valiant but shortsighted effort and battle that can never be won; and 
on behalf of the American taxpayers who have seen more than $1 trillion 
poured into an attempt to fight terror, where there is not even a 
remote relationship to the welfare of the American people; and really, 
also, on behalf of the innocent children who have had the misfortune to 
simply be in the ever-changing line of fire and the vicinity of 
terrorists who move effortlessly from Iraq to Somalia to Yemen to 
Paraguay to Afghanistan like the Whack-a-Mole at the county fair in the 
form of unconventional and ill-defined tribal warfare that 2,000 years 
have taught us we simply cannot fight.

I think it was November of 1952, when I was about 6 years old, that 
Charles Schultz and his Peanuts comic strip came out with the annual 
saga where, every year, Charlie Brown comes up to the football, and 
Lucy tells Charlie Brown year after year, ''Just one more time we'll 
let you kick ball.'' And each year, she pulled the football out, only 
to find Charlie Brown on his rear end.

I would suggest to you, Mr. Speaker and Members of the House, in this 
somewhat stretched analogy, that a series of Commanders-in-Chief are 
Lucy, and we're Charlie Brown, and the football is the illusive promise 
of a goal that we simply cannot reach. We cannot force a culture to 
accept our values, and we cannot impose Western democracy on a people 
who don't understand or accept it and whose leadership is corrupt and 
antidemocratic beyond repair. And we cannot continue to spend the 
billions and, arguably, trillions of dollars of the hardworking men and 
women in this country in a venture that has no objective, no end game, 
and no proximate connection to the well-being of our Nation.

In conclusion, Mr. Speaker and Members of the House, we cannot afford 
economically, we cannot afford militarily, and we cannot afford as a 
people to pass this bill. This President who, frankly, won an election 
based on his strong antiwar message, like many of his predecessors, 
asked us one more time to spend a few more billion dollars--in this 
case $38 billion--a few thousand more men and women in an effort to 
kick the football just one more time. It simply isn't doable.

I suggest to you, Mr. Speaker and Members of the House, that this 
rule underlies a bill that the vast majority, I believe, of the 
American people don't want. I represent a district in central Illinois, 
and I think I speak in many ways for middle America. I voted for the 
authorization of force in Iraq and, frankly, Afghanistan; and I 
believe, like many of us, I may have questioned my vote. But I believe 
that we're the greatest nation on Earth, thanks in large part to the 
generations of fighting men and women who have given their lives to 
this great cause and democracy and this great Nation of ours.

As we prepare to celebrate our independence in a few days, I think I 
speak on behalf of the average American citizen who says, For what? 
What is this money being expended for? Why are we doing it? And what's 
the end game? And I would suggest to you, Mr. Speaker and Members of 
the House, that there is no end game, and I would respectfully ask that 
this rule and the underlying bill be defeated.