---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `adf77b82bd6450714f6c502b36678bfe`
`Mr. LEAHY — 19 June 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senators Kennedy, 
Smith, Levin, Hagel, Biden, and Lieberman to introduce this important 
legislation. In January of this year, the Judiciary Committee held a 
hearing to examine the plight of Iraq's refugees, during which we heard 
from the State Department, the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Refugees, nongovernmental organizations and individuals, and Iraqi 
citizens who had been targeted for assisting the United States. This 
hearing brought the enormity of the Iraq refugee situation into sharp 
focus and made clear that we must do more to address this crisis and 
provide assistance especially to those Iraqis who have assisted the 
United States with its mission. If enacted, this bill would help the 
United States fulfill the promises it has made to the people of Iraq.

In February of this year, the Bush administration announced that 
7,000 Iraqi refugees would be permitted to enter the United States in 
2007. Over the last 8 months, however, only 70 Iraqis have been allowed 
into the United States as refugees. Each year there are 20,000 
unallocated slots for refugees that could be applied to Iraq, and an 
additional 5,000 for the Middle East. Yet the Department of Homeland 
Security has admitted approximately 700 Iraqis since the war began in 
2003. We have an obligation to do better than this when an estimated 4 
million Iraqis have been displaced within Iraq or have fled the country 
due to our involvement there. And we have a special obligation to do 
all we can for those Iraqis who have made tremendous sacrifices on 
behalf of the United States and who continue to live under the threat 
of torture and death.

Refugees International has called the Iraq refugee crisis the fastest 
growing refugee crisis in the world. It is estimated that nearly 2 
million Iraqis have been internally displaced, while another 2 million 
have fled the country, with little more than they could carry. With 
this bill, we show our commitment not to repeat the tragic and immoral 
mistake from the Vietnam era and leave friends without refuge and 
subject to violent reprisals.

The United States has an obligation to the people of Iraq, and 
especially to those who have assisted the American military in its 
efforts there. When an Iraqi man or woman makes the choice to help the 
United States--whether as an interpreter or in some other role--and 
puts his or her life on the line, the United States bears a special 
responsibility to do what it can to reciprocate the loyalty that so 
many Iraqis have shown us.

The bill we introduce today will create a new P2 category for 
Refugees of Special Humanitarian Concern. Individuals who have assisted 
the United States, or who have worked for a company, NGO, or other 
entity that has received a grant or contract from the U.S. Government 
would be eligible for status as a refugee of special humanitarian 
concern. In order to implement this new program, the legislation would 
direct the establishment of consular processing facilities in Iraq to 
expedite the resettlement process for those Iraqis and their immediate 
families who qualify under the bill for special relief.

The bill also sets up a special immigrant visa category for 
individuals who have worked as interpreters or translators for the 
United States for an aggregate of 1 year between 2003 and the present. 
This new program would augment current efforts to provide protection 
for those individuals who have assisted the United States by providing 
interpreter or translation services.

The legislation would also direct the Secretary of State to establish 
an office of Minister Counselor in the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. This 
office would be responsible for overseeing the new programs set up 
under this bill, and would be the primary point of contact for eligible 
individuals seeking protection. This official would also have the 
authority to refer individuals directly to the United States Refugee 
Resettlement Program. Additionally, parallel Minister Counselor offices 
would be established in Egypt, Jordan, Syria, and Lebanon to effectuate 
the P2 refugee program.

The Secretary of State would also be required to work with other 
nations currently hosting Iraqi refugees in order to provide support 
and to help ensure the safety and well-being of Iraqis located in 
countries surrounding Iraq. The legislation would also allow Iraqis who 
applied for asylum in the United States after 2003, and who were denied 
based on changed country conditions due to the overthrow of Saddam 
Hussein, to have those denials reviewed due to the continuing violence 
and dangerous conditions in the country. This change will allow our 
laws to reflect the current reality in Iraq.

This legislation will help provide some relief to the brave men and 
women who have assisted the United States in Iraq, and will help renew 
the commitment of the United States to the cause of protecting those 
who turn to us for help. I hope all Senators can join with us in 
support of the bill we introduce today.