# RESOLUTIONS OF DISAPPROVAL
## `ae00b531ec0c1c858f83a20e03cb9ab3`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, let's make no mistake about what is 
happening today. The Republican side is afraid to debate even a 
nonbinding resolution as to whether this Senate supports an escalation. 
Simply put, this is a filibuster so that we cannot debate the war in 
Iraq. Some on the other side will say, well, the word ''filibuster'' 
should not be used. But that is exactly what is going on.

Some on the other side will say, well, Democrats filibustered judges. 
We did. They said that. We were willing to stand by it. Are they 
willing to stand by filibustering the war in Iraq? And let me say 
this--let me say this--the lack of debate on this war in this Senate, 
in this administration, and in this country has led to the muddle, the 
debacle we are now in, where 70 percent of the people do not support 
this war. And most experts you talk to say: What is the strategy? We do 
not seem to have one.

When General Shinseki, 3 years ago, said we needed more troops, there 
was


no debate. When CIA agents and others said there were not weapons of 
mass destruction, they said we do not need debate. When this war 
devolved from fighting terror and removing Saddam Hussein into a war 
that was a civil war, with our young men and women policing the age-old 
hatred between the Shiites and the Sunnis, there was no debate.

That is why we are in the sad state we are right now. I fully support 
the troops. And I understand the need of a President to lead, but 
without debate, debate that has been the hallmark of this country, not 
words but a meeting of ideas, a meeting of disagreements so that the 
best policy might emerge? That is what America is all about. And when 
it comes to war, it should be all about it more than any single other 
issue.

Every one of my colleagues who is willing to block off this debate 
right now, who will vote against cloture, is saying: I don't wish to 
debate whether this escalation is the right thing. You can say the 
commas are in the wrong place or the dots are in the wrong place. 
Senator Reid has offered both resolutions, the one by the Senator from 
Arizona and the one by the Senator from Virginia, both Republican 
resolutions--an equal place under the Sun--yes or no.

The ability to obfuscate, the ability to shade, the ability to hide 
should not be available here. Yes or no. Do you support this so-called 
surge, this escalation, or do you not? I believe the election answered 
that on behalf of the American people. They want their Senate to debate 
it. They would much rather have their Senator vote yes or no than not 
vote at all.

And here we are at this sorry moment. We are on the most important 
issue that has faced this Senate in quite a while. We are saying, at 
least those on the other side of the aisle: No debate, no discussion.

Again, I remind my colleagues it is that lack of debate and that lack 
of discussion that led us into the situation we are in now, where this 
war has dwindling support in this country, in this Senate, and even in 
Iraq itself.

I yield the floor.