---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `ae00008e29762e2518e3e4f82b11340d`
`Mr. SKELTON — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee and compliment him on his efforts in this 
very, very difficult situation.

What is wrong with doing what we are doing? Yesterday in the Armed 
Services Committee, or I should say early this morning in the Armed 
Services Committee, we passed a bill out that had as its pole star the 
readiness of our military. That is what this effort is about. The 
readiness, the funding, more than the White House has requested of us, 
and that is what this is all about. The young men and young women are 
entitled to have the funding come to them, and that is what this does.

I find no fault with having our looking at it as a benchmark for us, 
as a benchmark for those of us who fund the troops. We are not rubber 
stamps; we are a co-equal branch of the government. And as such, our 
voices should be heard and there should be an agreement with what we 
are trying to do: readiness and benchmarks. And that is just what we 
are asking this body to vote upon.

In addition thereto, there is a proposal in this measure I suggested 
some time ago, actually in late 2005, to the President that there be a 
measurement of redeployment for the American troops. I suggested to him 
that for every three brigades of the Iraqi Army brought to level one 
that one American brigade be redeployed. I got an answer back from the 
President, and when I brought it to his attention, he said it was too 
rigid. When truth, in fact, it ought to be, and as it is in this 
legislation, this bill, for every one soldier or battalion or brigade 
that is brought to level one in the Iraqi Army, there would be a 
redeployment of the American soldier, platoon, battalion, brigade at 
any level. It should be soldier for soldier. It is their country. We 
have been there over 4 years, and I think it is time to pass that baton 
on for the security of that country to be taken over by the Iraqis 
themselves. That is what the formula does, one on one. And I strongly 
endorse it.

I urge the passage of this bill.