---
---

# HONORING AND CONGRATULATING COLONEL DANIEL L. RUBINI
## `ae084610722b58ed67b6d08574b932be`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 3 December 2009`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to 
honor and congratulate my friend Colonel Daniel L. Rubini.

Colonel Daniel L. Rubini, or Larry as we all know him, has dedicated 
his life to the rule of law, traveling across the globe to help 
struggling nations, often engulfed in devastating conflicts, establish 
the fundamental elements of a successful democracy. A 40-year Bucks 
County resident, Colonel Rubini has lent his expertise and commitment 
to make life better for veterans and military families across our 
region, always lending a hand when his brothers and sisters of the 
Armed Forces find themselves in need.

It's been my privilege to work alongside Colonel Rubini as we fought 
to fmally bring a Veterans Cemetery to Bucks County, an honor long 
overdue for the veterans of southeastern Pennsylvania. He's been the 
driving force to clean up the unmarked graves at Washington's Crossing 
Park to make sure that those first American soldiers get the 
recognition they deserve. I have been proud to partner with Colonel 
Rubini to help the men and women of Iraq and Afghanistan who have 
risked their lives to assist the American military as translators. 
Those brave souls have no greater advocate than Colonel Rubini, who has 
helped countless men and women find safe haven from those who seek to 
harm them because they stood up for their country and fought for 
democracy. No matter what, Colonel Rubini is always there to make sure 
returning soldiers receive a warm welcome home, as well as a warm meal.

Colonel Rubini will be receiving the William H. Eastburn III Award 
from the Bucks County Bar Association for his contributions to the 
Bucks County judicial system. The award goes to someone who has 
encouraged a greater respect and understanding for the law, and 
challenged others to take personal responsibility as citizens.

Colonel Rubini has done great things, not just for this Nation, but 
for countries throughout the world. He has helped to bring the rule of 
law to places like Kuwait and Haiti, while continuing to fight for 
justice in Pennsylvania. He's a true veteran's advocate and I'm proud 
to call him my friend.



Madam Speaker, I ask that we honor and congratulate Colonel Daniel L. 
Rubini for his contribution to Bucks County but also to the rest of the 
world. He's a true American hero.
