---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ae0ea5cd6ee6997a227c58d331a2e8e6`
`Mr. MITCHELL — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, today, I voted for the U.S. Troop 
Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act because it 
provides our Nation's returning troops and veterans with the care they 
need and deserve, and makes our country more secure by setting forth a 
new, responsible course in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The people of my District have told me that after four years and 
thousands of lives lost, they are looking to Congress to ensure that 
our commitment in Iraq is not open-ended, that there is not a blank 
check on American lives, and that the Iraqi government will be held 
accountable.

While I have serious concerns about some aspects of this legislation, 
and, in general, do not support an absolute, Congressionally-mandated 
timetable in Iraq, I believe that, on balance, this legislation does 
more good than harm. Ideally, I would have preferred a more bipartisan 
approach, especially on an issue of this magnitude.

I am deeply disappointed in my Party's leadership for insisting on a 
timetable instead of working with our colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle. I am also disappointed that leadership saw fit to include 
millions of dollars for unrelated spending projects for shrimp farmers 
and peanut storage facilities. I will be working with my colleagues to 
remove these provisions as this bill goes to conference.

Our sons and daughters are in harm's way, however, and I cannot in 
good conscience withhold the resources they need while we continue what 
is likely to be a lengthy debate in Washington.

I also believe that as the Chairman of the Veterans' Affairs 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation, I have a unique 
responsibility to our veterans.

I am working hard to make caring for our veterans a national 
priority, and this legislation is a good start. It secures a much-
needed $1.7 billion for veterans' health care, including $550 million 
to get rid of the maintenance backlog that will help ensure veterans' 
facilities are clean and well-maintained.

This bill provides $20 million to clean up the mess at the Walter 
Reed Army Medical Center. These funds, combined with the Dignity for 
Wounded Warriors Act of 2007--which I introduced last month--are an 
important first step.

By voting this emergency supplemental down, Congress would send a 
distressing and insulting message to our injured soldiers, veterans and 
their loved ones that its years of neglectful under-funding and failed 
oversight of Walter Reed would go on and on.

This bill also makes our country more secure. It provides our troops 
with the resources they need to fight al Qaeda and other terrorists in 
an increasingly hostile situation in Afghanistan. For too long, the 
situation in Afghanistan has gone under the radar while al Qaeda and 
elements of the Taliban have grown stronger.

In Iraq, we are setting forth a new, responsible course that demands 
that the Iraqis take responsibility for their own security and 
stability. That requires the Iraqi government to meet its own 
benchmarks.

This is precisely the type of plan the bipartisan Iraq Study Group 
outlined just a few months ago. The distinguished members of that 
panel, including James Baker, Lee Hamilton and Arizona's own Sandra Day 
O'Connor, believed, as I do, that benchmarks are an appropriate way to 
chart the Iraqi government's progress, or lack thereof.

Among these benchmarks are quelling sectarian violence, disarming 
sectarian militias and developing a plan to share oil revenues 
equitably among all Iraqis. Holding the Iraqi government accountable is 
imperative because they have not always lived up to their promises.