---
---

# RECOGNIZING NATIONAL HOMEOWNERSHIP MONTH
## `ae18d96d3398573d562e2869fb5805b4`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 24 June 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 
1271, Recognizing National Homeownership Month and the importance of 
homeownership in the United States, introduced by my distinguished 
colleague from California, Representative Gary Miller. This timely 
legislation helps to highlight the importance of ownership by 
recognizing homeowners in the United States.

This legislation recognizes June 2008 as National Homeownership 
Month. We should be very proud that the people of the United States are 
one of the best-housed populations in the world. This phenomenon has 
evolved because we are anchored in the belief that owning a home is a 
fundamental part of the American dream and is the largest personal 
investment many families will ever make. Homeownership provides 
economic security for homeowners by aiding them in building wealth over 
time and strengthens communities through a greater stake among 
homeowners in local schools, civic organizations, and churches. 
Creating affordable homeownership opportunities requires the commitment 
and cooperation of the private, public, and nonprofit sectors, 
including the Federal Government and State and local governments. In 
2007, Texas ranked fourth behind California, Florida, and Illinois in 
pre-foreclosures. Last year, Texas held the top seat for active 
foreclosures.

This is why it is important that we reaffirm that homeownership can 
be sustained through appropriate homeownership education and informed 
borrowers. Affordable homeownership and maintaining the confidence and 
morale of current homeowners will play a vital role in resolving the 
crisis in the United States housing market: Now, therefore, I fully 
support the goals and ideals of National Homeownership Month, and I 
recognize the importance of homeownership in building strong 
communities and families.

H. Res. 1271 recognizes homeowners and only homeowners, not 
speculators or lenders. This legislation reminds us that we cannot 
continue to stand by as the housing market continues to deteriorate. 
U.S. home prices tumbled in April at the fastest rate since a widely-
followed index was begun in 2000 with all 20 metropolitan areas posting 
annual declines for the first time. Texas reported 13,829 properties 
entering some stage of foreclosure in April, a 16 percent increase from 
the previous month and the most foreclosure filings reported by any 
state. The state documented the nation's third highest state combined 
foreclosure rate--one foreclosure filing for every 582 households.

Many homeowners in my district are worried about missing their next 
house payment or their next home equity mortgage, or their interest 
rate going up. These families are under stress and in constant fear of 
loosing their homes.

This bill should not be the last word in housing legislation nor 
should it be restricted to the status of symbolic rhetoric. The 
American people need us to intervene in this housing crisis that is 
leaving many undeserving families homeless. This bill coupled with 
Congresswoman Maxine Waters' bill, H.R. 5818, the Neighborhood 
Stabilization Act, provides a good starting point in providing 
Americans with relief. We must never forget that many of the New Deal 
programs under President Roosevelt were considered bailouts at that 
time. And yet, these programs brought our country out of the 
Depression, rejuvenated our economy, and gave hope as we sought to deal 
with the War overseas.

We are spending billions of dollars on the war in Iraq. I support our 
troops but I am dismayed at how our support for a war that needs to 
become less military and more diplomatic in nature, has disrupted our 
ability to take care of things at home. Thank you Madam Speaker for 
your leadership in this area, I urge my colleagues to support 
recognizing American homeowners by supporting H.R. 1271.