---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ae2709e8715f0d41c1291afdff76b0c3`
`Mr. SHAYS — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Madam Speaker, it is good we are having this debate. As a 
20-year veteran of this place, I am, frankly, impressed with the 
heartfelt and articulate statements from both sides of the aisle. On 
matters of war and peace, it is imperative we do what is right for our 
country, as we see it, and then live personally with the consequences.

Critics of the war in Iraq wanted new leadership at the Department of 
Defense, new military leadership on the ground, and a new plan to 
stabilize Iraq and bring our troops home.

We have a new Defense Secretary, Robert Gates, new Commanding General 
of Multinational Forces, David Petraeus, who everyone acknowledged is 
as perfect a person for this job as we could find, and a new strategy 
to clean up, hold and rebuild the neighborhoods with a short-term 
buildup of our forces.

The Democratic majority in the House has introduced a resolution 
condemning this strategy, expressing disapproval, without offering any 
alternatives. Ironically, they offer a stay the course resolution.

The majority is clear on what it is against, but does not say what it 
is for, leaving us with what exists right now, the status quo.

The resolution sends the wrong message to the President, to our 
troops, and to our enemies. It will not get my vote.

We need a resolution to help resolve this conflict, not a symbolic 
resolution that gives no guidance on how we can help stabilize Iraq and 
bring our troops home.

Working with Congressman Frank Wolf and others, we helped create the 
Iraq Study Group, bipartisan experts led by Jim Baker and Lee Hamilton 
who offered fresh eyes on Iraq and offered specific recommendations.

The Iraq Study Group made three recommendations, transfer 
responsibility for police patrolling the streets from American troops 
to Iraqi security forces; two, encourage Sunnis and Shias to resolve 
their differences or face the consequences, American troops leaving; 
and, three, conduct a robust diplomatic effort with all of Iraq's 
neighbors to engage them in the country's future.

The White House has implemented the first and second of those 
recommendations but, regretfully, not the third.

The Study Group provided a road map resoundingly endorsed by members 
from both political parties. It is a missed opportunity that the 
resolution we are debating this week does not incorporate these three 
recommendations.

I know there are many Americans who are concerned about a short-term 
increase in troops to secure and regain control of Baghdad. I 
understand their concern. Two years ago I believed this strategy had a 
better than even chance to work. Today it is less likely to succeed, 
but it is still the best opportunity we have.



But this strategy will only work if Iraqi troops do their part; Sunni 
and Shia politicians resolve their differences, meeting benchmarks 
against firm timelines like they did in 2005; and the U.S. and Iraq 
engage in a diplomatic surge with all of Iraq's neighbors, including 
Syria and Iran.

We also need to be prepared with plan B if this plan fails. It seems 
to me plan B involves taking our troops out of harm's way, removing 
them from the urban areas, and placing them along the borders so Iraq's 
neighbors, Syria, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Jordan, and Turkey, are 
not tempted to enter Iraq.

And if plan B fails, we will have no choice but to leave, having been 
defeated, having lost to the Islamist terrorists who have made it very 
clear this is just the beginning.

In essence, our troops deserve to know we have a plan to win. If we 
do not have a plan to win, we need a plan to leave. The resolution 
before the House neither helps us succeed nor gives us guidance on when 
and how to leave. It is counterproductive.

It is so counterproductive, for 535 Members of the House of 
Representatives and Senate to micromanage the war. It is the 
responsibility of the administration to conduct the war effort. It is 
Congress's responsibility to conduct tough oversight, hold the 
administration accountable for the implementation of the war.



Having chaired 14 hearings on the operations in Iraq and been to Iraq 
15 times to conduct on-the-ground oversight, I will continue to ask the 
administration the tough questions and to provide, to the best of my 
ability, my observations and recommendations.

Regretfully, too few Members of Congress have fully considered the 
consequence of leaving Iraq prematurely. The Iraq Study Group warned, 
''If the situation in Iraq continues to deteriorate, the consequence 
could be severe for Iraq, the United States, the region, and the 
world.'' This is what members of the Iraq Study Group said on a 
bipartisan basis, Republicans and Democrats united.

The ultimate goal for me is to bring our troops home without leaving 
Iraq in chaos. This is still achievable if Republicans and Democrats, 
the White House and Congress, agree on a bipartisan solution and then 
carry it out with steely resolve. Officially endorsing the 
recommendations of that Iraq Study Group and acting on them is the best 
way to make this happen.

The only way we should leave Iraq is the same way we went in: 
together.