---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `ae274b703cbb6821f3a44936c8477e64`
`Mr. NEUGEBAUER — 11 December 2009`

---


Mr. NEUGEBAUER. Madam Chairman, the Republican alternative actually 
brings real reform to the regulatory process and not big government. 
The first thing that the Republican alternative does is it ends 
bailouts. The American people are tired of bailouts; and particularly 
they are tired of bailouts when they come at their expense. The other 
thing that the Republican substitute does is it gets the government out 
of picking winners and losers. If companies make bad decisions, they 
fail. If they make good decisions, they succeed.

The other part of the Republican plan is we say, you know what, if 
you are taking risky behavior, you are involved in businesses that 
cause more risk to the system, you have to have more capital. The other 
thing that the Republican plan does is it actually protects consumers 
and doesn't limit their choices. I think that is the big difference in 
this piece of legislation; this piece of legislation that the Democrats 
want to do, they want somebody else to make the choices for you. They 
have a credit czar, and that credit czar is going to tell you what kind 
of car loan, what kinds of student loan, and what kind of house loan 
you can get. I have said all along that I think the American people 
have enough sense to make their own decisions.

In fact, I just recently came back from Afghanistan where we have 
young


men and women who are deployed, and they are over there trying to 
protect the American people's ability to make their own choices. I hope 
they are not going to be disappointed when they find out that back here 
in the good old U.S. of A., where they have been defending our freedom 
and liberty, we are over here trying to pass legislation that will 
limit their choices, limit their choices to be able to have the kind of 
house loan or car loan or student loan. Or maybe they want to come back 
from serving this great country and this great Nation after their 
distinguished service, they want a small business loan, only to find 
out that the United States Congress is limiting the ability of banks 
and credit unions to provide new business loans for these men and 
women. I don't think that is what they are fighting for.

I urge Members to vote for the Republican substitute and vote against 
the underlying bill.