# HONORING SPECIALIST WADE SLACK
## `ae3b123b4e8b4fa3e82646db40863f43`
`Mr. MICHAUD — 25 May 2010`

---


Mr. MICHAUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the memory of 
Specialist Wade Slack of Waterville, Maine who was killed while serving 
his country in Afghanistan.

Wade was a beloved member of the Waterville community. He is 
remembered for a kindness, compassion and wisdom that exceeded his 
years. On May 6th, Specialist Slack succumbed to wounds sustained by 
enemy mortar fire in the Wardak Province of Afghanistan. At just 21 
years old, Specialist Slack's youth punctuates an already painful loss.

Wade Slack, a fan of video games and hunting, enlisted while still an 
honors student at Waterville High School. After graduating in 2007, he 
completed his basic training at Ft. Leonard Wood, Mo., and his advanced 
individual training at Redstone Arsenal, Alabama and Englin Air Force 
Base, Florida. He was an E4 specialist with a focus in explosive 
ordnance disposal, serving with the Army's 707th Ordnance Battalion.

Mainers come together during a crisis, and I know that everyone in 
Waterville and the state stand together to support the Slack family. 
Wade is survived by his parents Alan and Mary, his stepmother Rose, six 
bothers and sisters, two step siblings and countless close friends. He 
is mourned by all as a true American hero and a defender of the freedom 
we all hold dear.

Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring the memory of Specialist 
Wade Slack for his patriotism and devotion to his community and his 
country.
