---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ae44c6434bd6d50d60584abc209450f2`
`Mr. SHULER — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SHULER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight in support of this resolution because for 
4 years this administration has driven us down the wrong road in Iraq. 
The administration's newest proposal does nothing more than accelerate 
our pace further and further away from our obligation of stabilizing 
Iraq and getting our troops home.

Our men and women in uniform have performed bravely and done 
everything


asked of them. Yet, 4 years into this conflict, we have our troops 
driving unarmored humvees in enemy territory.

Meanwhile, our government cannot account for roughly $12 billion 
allocated for the war in Iraq. With that $12 billion, we could have 
made the following purchases for our men and women in harm's way: 
80,000 armor kits for humvees; 16,000 armored security vehicles; 20 
million bulletproof vests; 40 million helmets. That money is gone. It 
disappeared in a cloud of waste, fraud and incompetence that has 
engulfed this war from the beginning.

In the words of Three Star General Greg Newbold, ''Members of 
Congress, from both parties, defaulted in fulfilling their 
constitutional responsibility for oversight.''

Now, this administration wants Congress to rubber stamp an escalation 
and continuation of those same failed policies. Well, that time is 
over.

My fellow Blue Dogs and I have made a public commitment to root out 
war profiteering. We demand oversight. We demand accountability. We 
demand transparency. The Blue Dogs and I will do everything in our 
power to make sure when we say we are funding our troops, the money 
actually gets to our troops.

Mr. Speaker, our military defeated a terrible dictator. This is what 
they were asked to do, but for 4 years now, we have asked those same 
troops to rebuild a Nation, and we have asked them to do this without a 
plan.

Now, this administration has asked us to send over 20,000 more 
military troops to continue trying to rebuild Iraq, still with no plan. 
Mr. Speaker, that is wrong.

I believe it is the patriotic responsibility of every Member of 
Congress to ask those tough questions. I promised the people of Western 
North Carolina that I would ask those questions. I have been to the 
White House, I have been to the Pentagon, and I have been to the 
hearings, and I am not satisfied with the answers I am getting.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution we are debating is not a binding 
resolution, but the grief felt by families who have lost loved ones is 
binding. The physical and mental struggles of our returning troops are 
binding. The devastation caused to innocent people by the violence in 
Iraq is binding.

It is a moral outrage to continue sending troops into harm's way 
without a plan for success.

This administration must realize that military might alone is not 
enough to secure Iraq and end the civil war.

Victory in Iraq requires more than bullets and bombs. It requires the 
cooperation of the Iraqi government, increased regional diplomacy, and 
competent leadership at home.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
