# None
## `ae473dcfe230656dffdda9943bf26df1`
`Mr. BROWN — 13 July 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, 35 years ago, thousands of young people 
entered politics for the first time by working on the Presidential 
campaign of George McGovern--a champion for social and economic justice 
and leading progressive.

Senator McGovern's legacy of progressive politics dates back to 
volunteering for Henry Wallace's Presidential campaign in 1948.

At 19, and still in college, I was one of those who volunteered for 
Senator McGovern during a time of great social and political upheaval 
in our Nation.

We looked to Senator McGovern for his leadership on ending the 
Vietnam war; for his vision of a nation defined by equal rights, equal 
opportunity, and unwavering support for those in need.

I remember being struck by the strength of his faith and by his 
patriotism.

When he thought our Nation needed to go to war, he served in 
uniform--earning the Distinguished Flying Cross during World War II.

And when he knew it was a war that was wrong, he spoke out early, and 
often, as was the case with the Vietnam war.

Whether he courageously spoke out against the war from this Chamber 
as a U.S. Senator, or spoke out for social justice on the Presidential 
campaign trail, Senator McGovern gave hope--and purpose--to a 
generation of Americans.

He changed lives and improved a nation.

Senator McGovern's work continues today.

A former U.N. Global Ambassador on World Hunger, Senator McGovern's 
outreach has helped feed literally millions of families around the 
world.

Together with Senator Bob Dole, he founded the George McGovern-Robert 
Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program, 
which helps feed children in developing nations.

And Senator McGovern continues to influence the national debate, 
speaking out on the Iraq war and weighing in on behalf of 
disenfranchised populations in our Nation and throughout the world.

Senator McGovern changed forever political activism and grassroots 
organizing. He opened the door for millions of activists attracted by 
his idealism, many of whom remained in public service their entire 
lives.

More than public servant, Senator McGovern has been a beloved husband 
and father.

The Senator was married to his wife Eleanor for nearly 64 years, 
before her passing earlier this year.

Together, they raised five children, Ann, Terry, Susan, Mary, and 
Steven.

Nearly 35 years after running for President, and marking his 85th 
birthday, Senator McGovern is ready to help lead us all into the next 
progressive era of our Nation.

I am humbled by Senator McGovern's service to our Nation and feel 
privileged to call him my friend.
