# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION
## `ae4f702a8853cd34429005304303f26d`
`Mr. ROCKEFELLER â€” 12 April 2007`

---


Mr. ROCKEFELLER. Mr. President, let me take this opportunity to 
extend my deep appreciation to my good friend, Senator Reid, for his 
very genuine persistence in pursuing this Intelligence authorization 
bill. He has worked hard, both as minority leader and as majority 
leader, to try to make this happen.

I suspect Senator Bond and I will have some fairly strong words to 
say in agreement about this because I think both of us are very 
dismayed that despite the very considerable efforts of Vice Chairman 
Bond and myself--we operate very closely together--to get agreement on 
this bill, there is still an objection to its consideration, as I 
understand.

It is almost inconceivable to me we are forced to come to this point 
of cloture and motions to proceed and all kinds of things on a national 
security bill. I do not understand that, where that comes from, why the 
motivation, how that happens.

In any event, we are talking about the authorization bill of the 
Intelligence Committee for 2007; and this is already the period for the 
2008 authorization bill. It is inexcusable. From 1978 through 2004--
that is a long time, 1978 to 2004--every year, there was an 
authorization bill, like every year there is a military authorization, 
Armed Services authorization bill. It happens in all major committees. 
The Senate had an unbroken 27-year record of having authorization bills 
every single year. This year and the last year--and I think the 
preceding year--we did not.

It is very frustrating to the Senator from Missouri and myself. This 
should be considered, and is considered, must-pass legislation. It is 
in the national interest. We are in the middle of a war on terror. Our 
continued military involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan calls for an 
analysis of what is going on in the intelligence community, putting it 
into authorization form so it can go on to be discussed and debated on 
the floor.

It is a matter of life and death. But we are being blocked again from 
considering a bill that provides the legislative roadmap for America's 
intelligence programs. America is not meant to work that way. Similar 
to the bills I have mentioned, you have to get authorization. It is 
done routinely. It is very puzzling.

Now, there are 16 separate provisions under our 2007 authorization 
bill--we are in the period for the 2008 authorization bill--enhancing 
and clarifying the authority of the Director of National Intelligence. 
These provisions include improvements to the way we approach and manage 
human intelligence, which the vice chairman and I feel very strongly 
about, information sharing, and the ability to manage intelligence 
community resources. Those are words with a great deal behind them.


I, like many of my colleagues, have been increasingly concerned about 
the seemingly endless stream of leaks of classified information. This 
bill includes provisions improving the authority of the Director of 
National Intelligence, whom we put in charge to look at matters such as 
these, and the Director of the CIA to protect intelligence sources and 
methods and a provision to increase the penalties for unauthorized 
disclosure of the identity of a covert agent.

The bill also contains numerous provisions intended to improve 
oversight of the intelligence community. We have not been doing that in 
the sense that we should, and Vice Chairman Bond and I worked very 
closely together on this issue. He is a ferocious pursuer of 
intelligence wherever he can find it, and he usually manages to bring 
it back with him. Section 408 will establish a statutory inspector 
general for the intelligence community. The DNI, the Director of 
National Intelligence, has used his power to create an IG, but the 
power to do so doesn't mean a requirement to do so. So we would 
strengthen that position in this legislation and make it more 
accountable to Congress.

Section 434 of the bill strengthens accountability and oversight of 
the technical intelligence agencies by providing a very important 
matter: that the heads of the National Security Agency, the National 
Reconnaissance Office, and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency 
are to be appointed by the President, as they have been but with the 
advice and consent of the Senate. That has not been the case. This is 
an enormous fountain of intelligence, and we think they ought to be 
responsive to the two Intelligence Committees in the Senate and the 
House.

My colleagues may be surprised that the head of an agency with as 
central a role in the intelligence community as the National Security 
Agency or an agency with the enormous budget of the National 
Reconnaissance Office is not appointed with Senate confirmation. It is 
really shocking. Whether it was an oversight or not, I have no idea, 
but it is wrong. Senator Mikulski pointed this out. This bill would 
correct that.

Section 108, cosponsored in committee last year by Senators Levin and 
Hagel, seeks to improve the timely flow of information to congressional 
intelligence committees. In other words, things can't be put off for a 
year or 2 years, 6 months or whatever. We try to enforce our view that 
we are an oversight group and we intend to be treated as such and we 
will not be treated in a lesser way. Similar language was included in 
the intelligence reform legislation that passed the Senate in 2004 and 
in S. 4, which passed the Senate last month.

There are requirements for the provision of specific information, 
including a report on the implementation of the Detainee Treatment Act 
and a separate report on the operation of clandestine detention 
facilities. These are not trivial matters, as the Presiding Officer 
understands, and they cannot be dealt with trivially by this body, and 
therefore we need this bill.

These provisions are all intended to improve our ability to make 
decisions


leading to better intelligence for the military and policymakers. There 
is no reason the Senate cannot pass the bill and do so quickly so that 
we can conference with the House and do that quickly so that we can 
pass the bill, the authorization bill of 2007, here in April of 2007 
and proceed on.

I will close by saying: I would remind my colleagues that we are at 
war in Iraq and in Afghanistan, and we are at war in scores--or 
potentially at war in scores of countries around the world where al-
Qaida is strong and growing, or groups such as the Taliban or others 
are growing. We can't have delay. This is an important bill. I 
encourage my colleagues to vote for the motion to invoke cloture and 
allow this process to move forward.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.