---
---

# CONTINUING EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `ae51cdce446fc9f85fa6e63d238f753f`
`Mr. REED — 26 March 2010`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I appreciate the Senator's objection. 
Additionally, I appreciate his consideration in allowing me to speak.

Let me conclude. We have a huge debt at the moment. I think if you 
look at the major contributing factors of that debt, they would include 
tax cuts that were unpaid for, supported strongly by the Republicans, 
which went dramatically to the richest Americans, and two wars that 
have been unpaid for. In fact, I think in a few weeks we are going to 
have to consider another supplemental Defense budget which at this 
point I do not believe is paid for and which I do not feel will 
engender any objection by the Republican side. It will include, given 
the nature of counterinsurgency operations, monies that will be used, 
ironically, to help develop productive jobs and build clinics and do 
things our soldiers must do to secure the peace in Afghanistan and 
Iraq. Yet at the same time we can't find that kind of money here 
without on offset to help Americans.

So there is a question of priorities. There is a question of the 
deficit. Again, repeating something my colleague said, I too recall 
when we had a surplus. That was under the leadership of President 
Clinton. There were tough votes by my colleagues and myself. That 
surplus has dissipated. We are now in a severe situation with the 
deficit. The compelling priorities of Americans who need to work and 
can't find it yet are extremely persuasive and should be responded to 
by the success of the bill.

I again thank the Senator from Oklahoma. He is extraordinarily kind.

I yield the floor.