# TRIBUTE TO HANNELORE BROWN
## `ae6378adbe4e2f56e18051956de44924`
`Mr. MOORE of Kansas — 6 March 2008`

---


Mr. MOORE of Kansas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Hannelore 
Brown, my constituent in the Third Congressional District of Kansas. 
Hannelore is an active school volunteer whose children attend Leawood 
Elementary School, Leawood Middle School, and Blue Valley North, in the 
Blue Valley School District.

About 5 years ago, Hannelore organized a campaign to urge Leawood's 
elementary schoolchildren to write Kansas servicemen and women 
stationed overseas in Iraq and Afghanistan. That campaign has since 
expanded into the middle school and the high school, and teachers have 
incorporated the letter writing into their lesson plans. Thousands and 
thousands of letters have been sent, thanks to her efforts. Artwork, 
posters, and Girl Scout cookies have also been mailed. Many, many 
soldiers have written back to the schoolchildren, and have emailed 
photos of themselves with the items sent by the schools. Other soldiers 
have visited the school when they returned home, to thank their new pen 
pals for the mail and caring sent to lonely troops on foreign soil.

Hannelore has also organized an annual patriotic school assembly to 
honor servicemen and women and veterans. Every year, she gathers 
uniforms, memorabilia, and other artifacts, to create museum-style 
exhibits. On Friday, March 28, 2008, the fourth such assembly is set 
for Leawood Elementary School, to be preceded by a breakfast honoring 
servicemen, -women, and their families, again organized by Hannelore 
Brown.

With Hannelore's help, Leawood Middle School has published a book of 
letters sent to and from the soldiers. It comes as no surprise to learn 
that Hannelore Brown has also assisted the school in its annual 
Veterans Day observance every fall.

On behalf of the thousands of lonely troops stationed overseas, I 
want to thank Hannelore for all she has done to help them. In turn, 
these personal connections have instilled a true sense of patriotism in 
all those involved, and have given students, parents, and staff a new 
appreciation for the service and dedication of these soldiers. One 
person can make a difference in the lives of many others, and Hannelore 
Brown is the perfect example.
