# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ae7ed231c22bcb6a8e92ce62d55bc5e8`
`Ms. BORDALLO â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1591, the 
U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. 
This legislation would make emergency supplemental appropriations for 
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007.

H.R. 1591 would provide funding for many purposes. This funding would 
support our military personnel who are fighting our country's enemies. 
This funding also would support our civilian personnel who are trying 
to establish a lasting peace for beleaguered citizens of some of the 
world's most troubled countries. Of particular note, this legislation 
includes much needed funding for healthcare for wounded warriors who 
have returned home, having given all but their lives in service to our 
country.

Debate with respect to this legislation will focus on the war in 
Iraq. Iraq is today's signature issue and it is also one of the most 
divisive and complex ones before this Congress. The choices we make 
regarding Iraq will establish a legacy for the United States that will 
define our policy toward the Middle East region for a generation or 
longer. For that reason, it is my hope that we, as an institution and, 
indeed, as a country can agree upon a policy that protects our national 
interests and those of our allies and supports those servicemembers and 
civilians--and their families--who so bravely serve our country today 
in Iraq and elsewhere around the world.

It is true the government of Iraq must work to better fulfill its 
obligation to govern from moderate positions, with uniformity, and with 
regard to the rule of law. On January 31, 2007, I introduced H.R. 744, 
the Iraq Policy Revitalization and Congressional Oversight Enhancement 
Act. H.R. 744 would take a different approach to the challenge of 
setting metrics to measure progress in Iraq and to define the terms for 
completion of the mission in that country than what is called for in 
H.R. 1591, the legislation that is currently before this body.

I am a member of the Committee on Armed Services and I have traveled 
to Iraq eight times since taking office in 2003. These trips have 
allowed me to observe our operations in Iraq and to personally speak 
with our commanders, servicemembers, and civilian personnel in the 
field. I have also had the opportunity to speak with Iraqi leaders 
during these visits. As a result, I have learned a great deal about the 
accomplishments made in Iraq to date. I have also learned of the many 
challenges that remain there.

I believe that an honest and open exchange of views on the substance 
of what our country and our allies must achieve in Iraq in order to 
complete Operation Iraqi Freedom is needed. Finding an achievable, 
expeditious, and honorable way to complete Operation Iraqi Freedom 
should be a primary goal for all of us. We owe this to those who have 
sacrificed so much for this mission. But the situation in Iraq will not 
yield a solution easily. Nevertheless, we must endeavor to find one. In 
doing so, we will be helping shape in the best way possible the legacy 
future generations of Americans will inherit and the one that we will 
have to defend to history. Like it or not, the United States assumed a 
moral obligation to bring order to Iraq when we, in a pre-emptive 
manner, attacked that country four years ago this month. History will 
judge us harshly if we act in a way that would abandon this obligation.

It is for this reason and others that I strongly support the funding 
called for by this legislation that supports our wounded warriors who 
are embarking on their long but hopeful roads to recovery, that 
supports our servicemembers who continue to pursue our enemies 
worldwide, and that supports our civilian personnel who work to 
stabilize and reconstruct countries that are now home to disturbing 
violence and heartbreaking loss of life. I urge my colleagues to 
support the funding called for by this legislation.