---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2764, THE  DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `ae8fec2db75880c6f0d92528d2356a8b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 17 December 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the distinguished 
gentlelady from New York, the chairwoman of the Rules Committee.

I rise in a somewhat curious posture, and that is, to support the job 
that has to be done on behalf of the American people. So I would call 
this the responsible serving of the American people's spending bill. 
That's what Democrats have attempted to do today.

I remind my colleagues that most of the appropriations bills, I would 
say all


of them, have been passed out of this body, and certainly the 
predicament that we find ourselves in is because of the 
administration's refusal to prioritize on behalf of the needs of 
veterans; the needs of major research institutions; a failing job 
market that needs increased job training dollars; the young people of 
America who want a future and, therefore, college assistance; and then 
recognizing the importance and the crucialness of access to health 
care; a good energy policy; and certainly the needs of repairing the 
transportation system of America.

I'm grateful that we have reprogrammed dollars to include money for 
research, job training, college assistance, access to health care, and 
as well, that we're reminded that we must ensure the safety of this 
Nation, while fighting, of course, to preserve the transportation 
centers of excellence, the letter that I wrote to ensure that funding 
for that would be included.

And though we talk sometimes without understanding about the concept 
''earmark,'' it is for the community of Houston, Texas, and the 18th 
Congressional District more early childhood education, more homeland 
security dollars for a constable's office. It is more dollars for a 
mental health facility, and it is recognition of more technology for 
our local first responders.

So I rise today to express the dilemma, when we have three branches 
of government, to refute any accusations of the postures that Democrats 
are in. Democrats are fighters. It is because of a budget mark and a 
stance by this administration to demand $120 billion for a war that is 
not working that puts us in a position not to be able to service the 
needs of the American people.



So we will continue this fight and we will stand strong and tall for 
those who are in need.

And I look forward to the Military Success Act of 2007 that I have 
authored being debated on this floor to acknowledge that the military 
has finished their work, it's time to bring them home and to reward 
them in honor and medals for what they have done in Iraq and to ensure 
that the people of America receive a spending bill that serves the 
needs of the American people.