---
---

# REPORT ON IRAQ BY GENERAL PETRAEUS
## `ae921dfc20f91188eff5cfe39ac63db1`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. I thank the gentleman for that. Reclaiming my 
time, if it's mine to reclaim, I'm not sure sometimes in these Special 
Orders whose time it is. I think it's the gentleman from Georgia's, but 
I don't want to have my colleagues or Americans believe that General 
Jones or General Petraeus came with nothing but good news. That's not 
the case.

As we discussed earlier, the Jones commission recommended some major 
changes in how the police is trained and equipped and how it functions 
and how it's organized, that they were highly critical of the Ministry 
of the Interior and how they're functioning and, in many cases, failing 
to function. So there are clearly problems, but the Jones report, the 
Jones commission did not come back and say that all is lost and Iraqi 
security forces are all failing.

In fact, that paragraph that I read quoting General Jones talking 
about how he was pleasantly surprised about the terrific progress of 
the Iraqi Army underscores that some good things are happening.

I thought it was interesting in that hearing, as my colleague from 
Georgia no doubt remembers, during the question-and-answer period, the 
former Deputy Secretary John Hamre, former Deputy Secretary of Defense, 
was asked some questions about what we should do in Iraq, should we 
leave or should we leave quickly or were things too bad. And he said in 
part, and again I'm quoting, but we have strategic interests that are 
larger than just Iraq. I mean our continued influence and presence in 
the region, the ability to get continued access to energy resources, 
providing a counterweight to Iran. We have large strategic interests. 
Every one of those interests would be seriously diminished if we had to 
crawl out of Iraq or run out of Iraq.

I think that is significant, Mr. Speaker. He made the point that when 
we leave Iraq, we walk out of Iraq on our terms, having defeated in 
large measure al Qaeda and left an Iraq with a promising future with 
the violence under control and political progress being made.


And so I just think that we have seen some unfortunate, really 
strident partisan statements made in the last week or so, and I guess 
it's unavoidable that people tend to go to sources that match their 
perspective. But I thought that the constant referring to the Jones 
Commission's report as somehow undermining what General Petraeus was 
saying or not consistent with it or indicating that all was lost in 
Iraq was simply not correct. And these quotes were part of many in what 
I thought was a very thorough, complete testimony and thorough hearing 
when we had the members of that commission in before the Armed Services 
Committee.