# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `ae9403c1e4dd774ed2ac1d53cfcd837b`
`Mr. BOYD of Florida â€” 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. BOYD of Florida. Let me thank my chairman, Mr. Edwards, for 
yielding.

Ladies and gentlemen, when our men and women are committed into 
combat, that has very long and costly consequences. Sometimes I think 
people in this town don't recognize this. But I can tell you there are 
some people in this Chamber, particularly Chairman Chet Edwards, 
Ranking Member Zach Wamp, who do understand that commitment into combat 
has very long and costly consequences.

Mr. Chairman, I see a lot of ''Support Our Troops'' slogans around. I 
see a lot of yellow bumper stickers and those great things. I see 
people going to churches and preparing care boxes to send overseas.

But that's not enough. That's not enough. We must make a commitment 
to take care of the families of those who put on the uniform when those 
in uniform are deployed. We must make a solemn commitment to provide 
for the health care and education benefits for those who come home 
after wearing the uniform. Many of them come home injured.

Mr. Chairman, there are some folks in this Chamber that understand 
that. Congressman Dave Obey clearly understands that. Congressman Bill 
Young, whom you just heard from. I saw Congressman Steve Buyer earlier, 
Bob Filner from California. Those are the folks who were involved in 
the writing of this legislation which provides the benefits and the 
commitment that we have made to our men and women.

We have got a whole new generation of veterans who need our support. 
Those are veterans of the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. And, obviously, 
it's our moral duty to provide them with the care and benefits that 
they need.

You've heard in detail about the details of what's in this bill. Mr. 
Wamp and Mr. Edwards have explained that. But it's important that we do 
this, ladies and gentlemen. This is a promise we've made, and it's 
simply the right thing to do.

If not for those who answered the call of duty, we would not be the 
great Nation we are today. For their service and sacrifice, we as 
Americans are eternally grateful, and I encourage this Congress to 
honor them by supporting this bill.

And, again, I want to thank the bipartisan work of Chairman Chet 
Edwards and Ranking Member Zach Wamp, our committee leaders, for what 
they have done.