---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `aea22732e09cb7fb36354620b7edcb6d`
`Mr. SHAYS — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman for 
yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, this closed rule allows only an up-or-down vote on the 
Democrats' proposal regarding needed military spending, but it contains 
an unrealistic timeline for the withdrawal of troops, and it includes 
bloated spending for nonmilitary expenditures.

We all want to do the right thing for our troops in Iraq and the 
Iraqi people. This bill does not give us the opportunity to do either.

I offered three amendments to the Rules Committee, and none were made 
in order because it made no amendment in order. One was to increase 
funding for our community action programs in Iraq, like Mercy Corps, 
who hire Iraqis in their organizations, and then the Iraqis are hired 
to do the work.

A second amendment would have required the President to come in with 
a timeline and to then require the Iraqis to meet it, and needing a 60 
percent vote of support of this timeline or we leave even sooner.

The third was to encourage this Congress to debate the Iraqi Study 
Group recommendations, which both Democrats and Republicans agree with.

We could have done something on a bipartisan basis. We expect Iraqis 
to work out their differences and are critical when the Sunnis and 
Shias are unable to find common ground. Yet we in this Congress, 
Republicans and Democrats, are unable to work out our differences, and 
we don't even have to fear a bomb being blown off or an assassination 
attempt.

We went into Iraq on a bipartisan basis. Two-thirds of the House and 
three-quarters of the Senate voted to go in. It is absolutely 
imperative we get out of Iraq on a bipartisan basis.

I encourage my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to allow us 
to have a bipartisan approach.