---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `aea5db3639c1192fb7be3733a6dac3da`
`Ms. PINGREE of Maine — 1 July 2010`

---


Ms. PINGREE of Maine. I thank my colleague on the Rules Committee for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the $37 billion in this bill for 
the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. I oppose this war funding, and I 
believe that our presence in Afghanistan is not strengthening our 
national security. Instead of spending this money on a war that doesn't 
make us any safer, I believe we should be reducing the deficit and 
investing here at home.

After the events of 9/11, the United States went to Afghanistan to 
capture or kill Osama bin Laden and dismantle al Qaeda, not to occupy 
the country or to build the Afghan government, a government that has 
proven time and time again to be one of the most corrupt in the world.

June was the deadliest month for our U.S. military personnel since 
the war began in 2002. And while the loss of one American servicemember 
is tragic, the loss of over 1,000 brave Americans for a cause that 
doesn't make America any safer is something we cannot tolerate.

Military and intelligence officials have said there are now only 50 
to 100 al Qaeda operatives in Afghanistan, which begs the question, why 
do we need over 100,000 troops over there? Does the United States 
really need 1,000 troops and $1 billion a year to fight each single 
member of al Qaeda?

We are pursuing a failed strategy in that country and have somehow 
confused nation building with fighting the war on terror. We have 
watched too many times as our colleagues here on the other side of the 
aisle and in the Senate vote not to extend unemployment benefits or 
pass funding that would help keep firefighters and teachers on the job 
because they said we can't afford it. Isn't it time to start asking 
whether we can really afford a war that costs $7 billion a month? It is 
time we really need to support our troops and deploy them from 
Afghanistan.

I urge my colleagues to join me in voting to strip out the wasteful 
and unnecessary funding in this bill. The American people and our brave 
servicemembers deserve to know our intentions in Afghanistan. That is 
why we need the administration to develop a timetable for withdrawal 
immediately.

The American people want us to end this war, and it is time for us to 
bring our men and women in uniform safely home.