---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2638, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND  SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `aebc9facd797ab6e5fc35a6dbb145fc9`
`Mr. OBEY â€” 12 June 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I want to say that I think this bill being 
brought forth today is an excellent bill. It will strengthen America's 
security, and every Member interested in doing that ought to vote for 
it.

The four security-related appropriation bills which we will bring to 
the floor, Military Construction, Homeland Security, State/Foreign 
Operations and Defense, will come in at a level about $2 billion above 
the President's request. This is a key bill in doing that.

I do want to make a few comments about what I understand was said 
while I was off the floor a few minutes ago with respect to earmarks. 
Let us trace what the facts are. The last time the Democrats controlled 
the appropriations process, I was chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee. In those days, earmarking was focused on about four 
subcommittees. There were no earmarks whatsoever in the Labor-Health-
Education bill the year that I was chairman. Two years ago, there were 
over 3,000 when the Republicans were running the show.

When we took over the Congress last year, the Republicans had not 
passed a single appropriation bill on the domestic side of the ledger. 
So we had to complete their work for them. And one of the ways we did 
that was to put a moratorium on all earmarks for the year. We promised 
at the time that we would try to resurrect the process, provided that 
we had a process that was more transparent.

Now, I understand someone from the other side claimed that we were 
going to airdrop these earmarks into the conference with no notice. Not 
so. What we plan to do is the following. And let me say, we didn't not 
preclude earmarks by choice. The simple fact is that because we had to 
deal with last year's Republican budget, because we had to deal with 
the Iraq controversy which consumed the next 3 months of staff time, 
because we were under subpoena by the San Diego U.S. Attorney to turn 
over papers related to Republican shenanigans that occurred last year, 
we did not have the staff time to focus on the substance of the bills 
for this year or earmarks. And we finally decided that we need to keep 
the bills moving, even if that meant that we would have to play catchup 
later with the earmarks.

So what we are going to do is as soon as the staff can prepare them, 
and we estimate it will take at least 4 to 5 weeks to screen all of 
those earmarks, we will submit and put in the Congressional Record a 
description of virtually every earmark that we intend to try to include 
in conference reports. We will then ask every Member to review those 
projects. If they have questions, raise questions about them, we will 
then ask the sponsor of the earmark to respond in writing, so that the 
person responsible for the request is the person who has to explain to 
the House what is going on. And then we will use our judgment about 
what makes sense. If the House thinks that we have got projects in 
there that shouldn't be in there, they can vote against the bill.

But let me point out there is a big difference between what we are 
doing


and the existing Republican process. It took 2 years after the fact to 
find out what Duke Cunningham was asking for. The fact is under our 
process, you will know 30 days ahead of time. It took us more than a 
year to find out about the Florida road that was evidently inserted in 
the highway bill by a Republican Member of this House from another 
State.



That can't happen in our process. Under our process, you will have 30 
days to review what they request. That is a sweeping reform in 
comparison to the absolute, behind-the-scenes operation that existed 
when the Republicans controlled this House.