---
---

# AFGHANISTAN-PAKISTAN STUDY GROUP
## `aee74b4676020281a9254e37429ef056`
`Mr. WOLF — 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share with my colleagues the 
text of a letter I sent today to President Obama, Secretary Gates, 
Admiral Mullen, and all other parties in the administration charged 
with executing the war effort. I will enclose in my correspondence to 
the administration a copy of a letter from a constituent who is a 
mother of six children, all of whom are currently serving or have 
served in the U.S. military.

I submit for the Record a copy of my original letter to the President 
as well as a copy of the letter from my constituent.

My letter today to the administration will read, in part, ''I implore 
you to consider my constituent's views--the views of an 'American 
mother with children glad to serve our country,' and to move swiftly to 
establish an Afghanistan-Pakistan Study Group, modeled after the Iraq 
Study Group, to bring 'fresh eyes' to the war effort in Afghanistan.

''The group would be comprised of nationally known and respected 
individuals who love their country more than their political party and 
would serve to provide much-needed clarity to a policy that 
increasingly appears adrift.

''Candidly, after reading yesterday's Washington Post piece adapted 
from Bob Woodward's Obama's Wars, I have serious concerns that the 
needed clarity about our aim in Afghanistan ever existed within the 
administration. Woodward writes, 'Even at the end of the process, the 
President's team wrestled with the most basic questions about the war, 
then entering its ninth year: What is the mission? What are we trying 
to do? What will work?'

''These are sobering questions--but they are questions that must be 
answered, and the Afghanistan-Pakistan Study Group is just the means to 
arrive at these answers in a way that honors our men and women in 
uniform.

''In the halls of Congress or the White House, at Foggy Bottom or the 
Pentagon, public discussions can at times be detached from the actual 
lives that are most directly impacted by the decisions being made. This 
couldn't be further from the case for this mother. She doesn't have 
that luxury when it comes to the war in Afghanistan. And we mustn't 
either.

''This is not a matter of politics--or at least it ought not be--for 
it is always in our national interest to openly assess the challenges 
before us and to chart a clear course to victory. Frankly, I've been 
deeply troubled by Woodward's reporting which indicates that 
discussions of the war strategy were infused with political 
calculations. An Afghanistan-Pakistan Study Group could help redeem 
what was clearly a deeply flawed process.''

I close with a line from my constituent. She said, ''The casualties 
suffered aren't just numbers to me. Each name, each face, represents a 
family who is paying the ultimate price--the loss of a son or a 
daughter, brother or sister, father or mother; a family that will never 
be the same. Therefore, I wholeheartedly support the formation of an 
Afghanistan-Pakistan Study Group in the hope that it will help to turn 
the tide of this war and lessen the number of casualties as well.''

I hope the President and his advisers will heed the eloquent words of 
this military mother who has six children serving and another child is 
married to a marine. And many have served in both Afghanistan and Iraq.



















Congress of the United States,




















 House of Representatives,


























 August 4, 2010.


 Hon. Barack H. Obama,


 The President,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr, President: On September 14, 2001, following the 


 catastrophic and deliberate terrorist attack on our country, 


 I voted to go to war in Afghanistan. I stand by




 that decision and have the utmost confidence in General 


 Petraeus's proven leadership. I also remain unequivocally 


 committed to the success of our mission there and to the more 


 than 100,000 American troops sacrificing toward that end. In 


 fact, it is this commitment which has led me to write to you. 


 While I have been a consistent supporter of the war effort in 


 both Afghanistan and Iraq, I believe that with this support 


 comes a responsibility. This was true during a Republican 


 administration in the midst of the wars, and it remains true 


 today.



 In 2005, I returned from my third trip to Iraq where I saw 


 firsthand the deteriorating security situation. I was deeply 


 concerned that Congress was failing to exercise the necessary 


 oversight of the war effort. Against this backdrop I authored 


 the legislation that created the Iraq Study Group (ISG). The 


 ISG was a 10-member bipartisan group of well-respected, 


 nationally known figures who were brought together with the 


 help of four reputable organizations--the U.S. Institute for 


 Peace, the Center for the Study of the Presidency, the Center 


 for Strategic and International Studies, and the Baker 


 Institute for Public Policy at Rice University--and charged 


 with undertaking a comprehensive review of U.S. efforts 


 there. This panel was intended to serve as ''fresh eyes on 


 the target''--the target being success in Iraq.



 While reticent at first, to their credit President Bush, 


 State Secretary Rice and Defense Secretary Rumsfeld came to 


 support the ISG, ably led by bipartisan co-chairs, former 


 Secretary of State James Baker and former Congressman Lee 


 Hamilton. Two members of your national security team, 


 Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and CIA Director Leon 


 Panetta, saw the merit of the ISG and, in fact, served on the 


 panel. Vice President Biden, too, then serving in the Senate, 


 was supportive and saw it as a means to unite the Congress at 


 a critical time. A number of the ISG's recommendations and 


 ideas were adopted. Retired General Jack Keane, senior 


 military adviser to the ISG, was a lead proponent of ''the 


 surge,'' and the ISG referenced the possibility on page 73. 


 Aside from the specific policy recommendations of the panel, 


 the ISG helped force a moment of truth in our national 


 conversation about the war effort.



 I believe our nation is again facing such a moment in the 


 Afghanistan war effort, and that a similar model is needed. 


 In recent days I have spoken with a number of knowledgeable 


 individuals including former senior diplomats, public policy 


 experts and retired and active military. Many believe our 


 Afghanistan policy is adrift, and all agreed that there is an 


 urgent need for what I call an Afghanistan-Pakistan Study 


 Group (APSG). We must examine our efforts in the region 


 holistically, given Pakistan's strategic significance to our 


 efforts in Afghanistan and the Taliban's presence in that 


 country as well, especially in the border areas.



 This likely will not come as a surprise to you as commander 


 in chief. You are well acquainted with the sobering 


 statistics of the past several weeks--notably that July 


 surpassed June as the deadliest month for U.S. troops. There 


 is a palpable shift in the nation's mood and in the halls of 


 Congress. A July 2010 CBS news poll found that 62 percent of 


 Americans say the war is going badly in Afghanistan, up from 


 49 percent in May. Further, last week, 102 Democrats voted 


 against the war spending bill, which is 70 more than last 


 year; and they were joined by 12 members of my own party. 


 Senator Lindsay Graham, speaking last Sunday on CNN's ''State 


 of the Union,'' candidly expressed concern about an ''unholy 


 alliance'' emerging of anti-war Democrats and Republicans.



 I have heard it said that Vietnam was not lost in Saigon; 


 rather, it was lost in Washington. While the Vietnam and 


 Afghanistan parallels are imperfect at best, the shadow of 


 history looms large. Eroding political will has 


 consequences--and in the case of Afghanistan, the stakes 


 could not be higher. A year ago, speaking before the Veterans 


 of Foreign War National Convention, you rightly said, ''Those 


 who attacked America on 9/11 are plotting to do so again. If 


 left unchecked, the Taliban insurgency will mean an even 


 larger safe haven from which al Qaeda would plot to kill more 


 Americans. So this is not only a war worth fighting . . . 


 this is fundamental to the defense of our people.'' Indeed it 


 is fundamental. We must soberly consider the implications of 


 failure in Afghanistan. Those that we know for certain are 


 chilling--namely an emboldened al-Qaeda, a reconstituted 


 Taliban with an open staging ground for future worldwide 


 attacks, and a destabilized, nuclear-armed Pakistan.



 Given these realities and wavering public and political 


 support, I urge you to act immediately, through executive 


 order, to convene an Afghanistan-Pakistan Study Group modeled 


 after the Iraq Study Group. The participation of nationally 


 known and respected individuals is of paramount importance. 


 Among the names that surfaced in my discussions with others, 


 all of whom more than meet the criteria described above, are 


 ISG co-chairs Baker and Hamilton; former Senators Chuck Robb, 


 Bob Kerrey and Sam Nunn; former Congressman Duncan Hunter; 


 former U.S. ambassador Ryan. Crocker; former Secretary of 


 Defense James Schlesinger, and General Keane. These names are 


 simply suggestions among a cadre of capable men and women, as 


 evidenced by the make-up of the ISG, who would be more than 


 up to the task.



 I firmly believe that an Afghanistan-Pakistan Study Group 


 could reinvigorate national confidence in how America can be 


 successful and move toward a shared mission in Afghanistan. 


 This is a crucial task. On the Sunday morning news shows this 


 past weekend, it was unsettling to hear conflicting 


 statements from within the leadership of the administration 


 that revealed a lack of clarity about the end game in 


 Afghanistan. How much more so is this true for the rest of 


 the country? An APSG is necessary for precisely that reason. 


 We are nine years into our nation's longest running war and 


 the American people and their elected representatives do not 


 have a clear sense of what we are aiming to achieve, why it 


 is necessary and how far we are from attaining that goal. 


 Further, an APSG could strengthen many of our NATO allies in 


 Afghanistan who are also facing dwindling public support, as 


 evidenced by the recent Dutch troop withdrawal, and would 


 give them a tangible vision to which to commit.



 Just as was true at the time of the Iraq Study Group, I 


 believe that Americans of all political viewpoints, liberals 


 and conservatives alike, and varied opinions on the war will 


 embrace this ''fresh eyes'' approach. Like the previous 


 administration's support of the Iraq Study Group, which 


 involved taking the group's members to Iraq and providing 


 high-level access to policy and decision makers, I urge you 


 to embrace an Afghanistan-Pakistan Study Group. It is always 


 in our national interest to openly assess the challenges 


 before us and to chart a clear course to success.



 As you know, the full Congress comes back in session in 


 mid-September--days after Americans around the country will 


 once again pause and remember that horrific morning nine 


 years ago when passenger airlines became weapons, when the 


 skyline of one of America's greatest cities was forever 


 changed, when a symbol of America's military might was left 


 with a gaping hole. The experts with whom I have spoken in 


 recent days believe that time is of the essence in moving 


 forward with a study panel, and waiting for Congress to 


 reconvene is too long to wait. As such, I am hopeful you will 


 use an executive order and the power of the bully pulpit to 


 convene this group in short order, and explain to the 


 American people why it is both necessary and timely. Should 


 you choose not to take this path, respectfully, I intend to 


 offer an amendment by whatever vehicle necessary to mandate 


 the group's creation at the earliest possible opportunity.



 The ISG's report opened with a letter from the co-chairs 


 that read, ''There is no magic. formula to solve the problems 


 of Iraq. However, there are actions that can be taken to 


 improve the situation and protect American interests.'' The 


 same can be said of Afghanistan.



 I understand that you are a great admirer of Abraham 


 Lincoln. He, too, governed during a time of war, albeit a war 


 that pitted brother against brother, and father against son. 


 In the midst of that epic struggle, he relied on a cabinet 


 with strong, often times opposing viewpoints. Historians 


 assert this served to develop his thinking on complex 


 matters. Similarly, while total agreement may not emerge from 


 a study group for Afghanistan and Pakistan, I believe that 


 vigorous, thoughtful and principled debate and discussion 


 among some of our nation's greatest minds on these matters 


 will only serve the national interest. The biblical 


 admonition that iron sharpens iron rings true.



 Best wishes.


 P.S. We as a nation must be successful in Afghanistan. We owe 


 this to our men and women in the military serving in harm's 


 way and to the American people.