---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `aeedccca5ecd522121943a3045dfb2a6`
`Mr. BLUNT — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. BLUNT. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information for 
publication in the Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received 
as part of H.R. 2638.

Requesting Member: Congressman Roy Blunt.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Army--RDT&E, Medical Advanced Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Missouri State University and 
Crosslink.

Address of Requesting Entity: 524 N. Booneville Ave, Springfield, MO 
65806.

Description of Request: $6 million is included in this bill to 
develop a localized drug delivery system for use on amputee and burn 
victims who are wounded in combat. Effective localized controlled drug 
delivery will provide amputees and burn victims the needed pain and 
healing therapeutics while minimizing the required dosage because the 
drug will be delivered locally and not systemically. This will aid in 
reducing chances of developing drug resistance and dependency both of 
which increase healing time and reduce quality of life. The use of 
taxpayer funds is justified because there are an estimated 20,000 
injuries in Iraq and many amputees are not wearing their prosthetic 
device due to discomfort resulting from inflammation and infection.

Requesting Member: Congressman Roy Blunt.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Conventional Weapons Technology Research, Development, Test 
And Evaluation, Air Force.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: EaglePicher Technologies.

Address of Requesting Entity: C and Porter Streets, Joplin, Missouri 
64802.

Description of Request: $2.4 million is included in this bill for 
energetic device quality


and reliability improvements using computer aided process control. 
Virtually every weapon and safety system used by the DoD relies on some 
type of Energetic Device to function properly. These devices are 
described as single point failure potentials--which means that if they 
don't function, then the system fails. Because of the criticality of 
these functions, the benefit of higher reliability translates into 
increased mission success and increased safety to the warfighter. In 
addition, the activities proposed above will lead to decreased 
manufacturing costs and increased manufacturing productivity for these 
devices. This will allow for increased throughput in order to support 
potential surge scenarios. EaglePicher Technologies (EPT) has been 
manufacturing Energetic Devices since the early 1980's and is proud of 
the reliability record demonstrated by the use of their devices. EPT 
seeks to partner with Eglin AFB to raise the reliability of these 
devices to the next level. EaglePicher proposes to demonstrate 
unprecedented levels of quality and reliability to this neglected, but 
critical segment of the defense industry. ustry.
