---
---

# None
## `af0fb732e822bc8830fd93db5ef92858`
`Mr. McCAIN — 13 July 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. I thank Senator Levin for his eloquent statement and 
comments concerning this amendment. I thank him for his leadership on 
it.



I have been for many years engaged in the Senate consideration of the 
Defense authorization bill. This is probably one of the most 
interesting--I think my colleague will agree--because we are beginning 
with a measure that, if not passed, will result in a veto by the 
President of the United States of America.

I appreciate this letter the President of the United States sent to 
Senator Levin and to me and to the entire Senate. I appreciate the 
President's courage because right now the votes are not there. Right 
now I think my friend from Michigan would agree the votes are not there 
to pass this amendment.

What the President has said, not only do we need to stop the 
production of the F-22, of which we have already constructed 187, but 
we need to do business differently. We need to have a change in the way 
we do business in order to save the taxpayers billions of dollars spent 
unnecessarily. So this will be kind of an interesting moment in the 
history of a new Presidency and a new administration and, frankly, an 
old Secretary of Defense. I say ''old'' in the respect that he 
obviously covers both administrations. I do not know of a Secretary of 
Defense who has had more appreciation and admiration from both sides of 
the aisle than Secretary Gates. I appreciate very much Secretary Gates' 
letter, also, where he describes in some detail, as does the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs, why we need to have this amendment passed to 
remove the additional F-22s. I want to emphasize ''additional.''

I wish to pay special appreciation to President Obama for taking a 
very courageous step in making it very clear, as he says:




 As Secretary Gates and the military leadership have 


 determined, we do not need these planes. That is why I will 


 veto any acquisition of F-22s beyond the 187 already funded 


 by Congress.


The statement is very clear. I appreciate it. I hope it has a 
significant impact on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle.

Again, my appreciation to President Obama and my appreciation to the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as well as the Secretary of 
Defense, who lay out in more detail why it is that we need to eliminate 
this unneeded $1.75 billion for seven additional F-22s.

I emphasize to my colleagues that these funds will go to the 
acquisition of the F-35, the Joint Strike Fighter, which when produced 
will provide a careful balance between the air superiority provided by 
the F-22 and the other capabilities of the Joint Strike Fighter, which 
is also badly needed. This argument is not about the capability of the 
F-22, although that will be brought to the floor and I intend to talk a 
little bit about many of the difficulties the F-22 has had. But I would 
also like to point out that the F-22 has never flown in Iraq or 
Afghanistan. That is a remarkable statement. It has been in production 
since December 2005. We are in July of 2009, and the F-22 has yet to 
fly in combat in the two wars in which we are engaged. It has been 
plagued with some significant maintenance problems, not to mention 
dramatic cost overruns.

This is not an argument about whether the F-22 is an important 
capability for our Nation's defense. It is. The question is, When do we 
stop buying them?

I quote from the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff letter:




 It is important to note that the F-35 is a half generation 


 newer aircraft than the F-22, and more capable in a number of 


 areas such as electronic warfare and combating enemy air 


 defenses. To sustain U.S. overall air dominance, the 


 Department's plan is to buy roughly 500 F-35s over the next 


 five years and more than 2,400 over the life of the program.


So I think arguments that may be made on the floor that somehow we 
are curtailing or inhibiting the ability of the U.S. Air Force to carry 
out its responsibilities to defend this Nation are contradicted at 
least by the views of the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and 
literally every other individual or position that is involved in this 
debate.

The Secretary of Defense goes on to say:




 Furthermore, under this plan the United States by 2020 is 


 projected to have some 2,500 manned fighter aircraft. Almost 


 1,100 of them will be fifth generation F-35s and F-22s.


There is going to be a lot of debate and discussion about China and 
its emerging capabilities.

The Secretary of Defense goes on to say:




 China, by contrast, is expected to have only slightly more 


 than half as many manned fighter aircraft by 2020, none of 


 them fifth generation.


I am concerned about the rising military capabilities of China. They 
are increasing their naval and maritime capabilities. They are 
increasing the efficiency of their army and their entire overall 
inventories, and it is of great concern. But with the combination of 
the F-35 and the F-22, we will clearly have a significant advantage 
over the Chinese for some period of time. That is not to in any way 
denigrate the long-term aspect of the Chinese military buildup. But in 
the short term, this is the best way to make sure we maintain complete 
superiority with a mixture of the F-35 and the F-22.

The Secretary goes on to say:




 The F-22 program proposed in the President's budget 


 reflects the judgment of two different Presidents, two 


 different Secretaries of Defense, three chairmen of the Joint 


 Chiefs of Staff, and the current secretary and chief of staff 


 of the Air Force.


My colleagues are going to come to the floor and say the Chairman of 
the Air National Guard says we need additional F-22s. We do not 
disregard that opinion, but we do weigh that opinion as opposed to the 
opinion and judgment of the individuals whom I just cited.




 If the Air Force is forced to buy additional F-22s beyond 


 what has been requested, it will come at the expense of other 


 Air Force and Department of Defense priorities--and require 


 deferring capabilities in areas we believe are much more 


 critical for our Nation's defense.


There is no free lunch. There is no free $1.75 billion. There is no 
free money. Here we are with a projected $1.8 trillion deficit, a 
decrease overall in some defense areas that is coming sooner or later, 
and we cannot afford a $1.75 billion procurement that is not absolutely 
needed.

Again, I wish to state very clearly, F-22 is a good airplane. The 
fact that it has not flown in Iraq or Afghanistan is telling, and some 
of the issues I will mention later on are telling. But this is not an 
attack on the F-22. What it is is an assessment of the Nation's 
national security needs and what we need in its inventory to maintain 
our superiority over all other nations and meet various threats ranging 
from radical Islamic extremism to the conventional capabilities of a 
rising power in the east.

Again, I wish to say thanks for the great leadership of our Secretary 
of Defense and Admiral Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, and the importance they place on this amendment.

I would like to refer my colleagues to an article that appeared last 
Friday in the Washington Post. It was entitled ''Premier U.S. Fighter 
Jet Has Major Shortcomings.''

I ask unanimous consent to have this article printed in the Record.