# THE BUDGET
## `af18013a28fe06f20f0a52232feba3ea`
`Mr. CONRAD — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Madam President, I am delighted that our colleague talks 
about our fiscal record and theirs. He talks about circling back to the 
policies when the Democrats controlled the White House. He is right 
that there is a difference. The difference is that when the Democrats 
last controlled the White House, we had record surpluses, and we were 
paying down the debt. Under the current President, we have record 
deficits and record debt.

I am delighted to talk about the record because here is their record: 
In each of the last 3 years of the Clinton administration, we had 
achieved a budget surplus, we were paying down the debt, and the CBO 
was projecting that the budget would remain in surplus for years to 
come. By the time the Bush administration came into power, we had 
achieved three consecutive years of surplus and were expecting more. 
But, the Bush administration squandered every dime. By the time this 
President is done with his responsibility, they will have run up the 
debt from $5.8 trillion to over $10 trillion. That is the difference in 
the record. Under the last Democratic administration, we ran surpluses 
and paid down the debt. Since then, under the Bush administration, the 
Nation has been beset by record deficits and record levels of debt. 
That is a fact.

Now, my favorite quote of my colleague on the other side--first, let 
me say I have respect for the ranking member. I have affection for him, 
and we are friends. But we have a big divide when it comes to fiscal 
policy. I think the policies of this administration have been reckless. 
I think they have dug an enormously deep hole for this country.



I think the factual record is very clear on the differences between 
our two parties. Under President Clinton, we achieved record surpluses, 
and we were paying down the debt. Under President Bush, the Nation was 
plunged right back into record deficits and debt. That is a fact.

But the thing I enjoy most about my colleague's speech is how similar 
it was to the speech he gave last year. This is what he said last year:




 It includes, at a minimum, a $736 billion tax hike on 


 American families and businesses over the next 5 years--the 


 largest in U.S. history.


The only difference is that now he is saying this budget is the 
largest tax increase in the history of the world. We can now go back 
and look at the factual record about what our budget did that was put 
into place last year.

Did it increase taxes? Did it increase them by the largest in U.S. 
history, as he asserted last year? Well, let's look. Here is the 
record--not a speech but the factual record. We had Democrats 
controlling the House and the Senate, and the assertion last year by 
the Senator from the opposite party was that there would be the largest 
increase in the history of the United States. But what happened? Was 
there the largest tax increase in the history of the United States? No. 
Was there a tax increase? No. Was there a tax reduction? Yes. Here it 
is: Tax cuts enacted, $194 billion; offsets and closing loopholes, $7 
billion; net tax reduction, $187 billion.

Now, that is the fact. So much for speeches and for hyperbole. Let's 
deal with facts.

Debt: The President's budget has $83 billion more of debt than the 
budget we have offered from our side. The Senator questions the Baucus 
amendment, which is included in this budget, that extends key middle-
class tax cuts. That is included in the conference report. We provide 
$340 billion of tax cuts in this budget.

What is he talking about, the biggest tax increase? There is no tax 
increase in this budget. None. Zero. There are $340 billion of tax 
reductions for the middle class in this country who deserve it.

The Senator says: Why haven't they presented a bill, because they had 
the Baucus middle-class tax cut extension in last year? Why haven't we? 
Because, as the Senator well knows, those tax cuts are in place until 
2010. We didn't need to take action last year. We don't need to take 
action this year. Those tax cuts are in place now. But in this 5-year 
budget, we have provided for their extension because we know they run 
out in 2010. But there is absolutely no need to have taken the action 
to extend them last year or this year because they are already in 
place.

Let's deal with facts. The Senator talks about Barack Obama's budget. 
Barack Obama doesn't have a budget. Barack Obama is not the President 
of the United States. He is asserting he has $300 billion of spending 
increases. I notice he didn't say anything about the McCain budget 
because while John McCain is not the President, either, he has proposed 
$3 trillion--not $300 billion but $3 trillion--of additional tax cuts, 
and we already can't pay our bills. We already are borrowing hundreds 
of billions from China and Japan. So apparently the McCain plan is to 
borrow some more money from China and Japan. That is what the party of 
the other side has become, a party of borrow and spend--they've spent 
$600 billion so far in Iraq with no end in sight, and they've borrowed 
so much that the debt will have increased from $5.8 trillion to $10.4 
trillion by the time this President is done.

Then there is one other item to which I need to respond, and that is 
on the question of the pay-go. The Senator says that pay-go is 
meaningless. What is it? It requires that if there is new mandatory 
spending or new tax cuts, they must be offset. That is pay-go.

The Senator used to support pay-go. This is what he said in 2002:




 The second budget discipline, which is pay-go, essentially 


 says if you are going to add a new entitlement program or you 


 are going to cut taxes during a period, especially of 


 deficits, you must offset that event so that it becomes a 


 budget-neutral event. . . . If we do not do this, if we do 


 not put back in place caps and pay-go mechanisms, we will 


 have no budget discipline in this Congress and, as a result, 


 we will dramatically aggravate the deficit which, of course, 


 impacts a lot of important issues, but especially impacts 


 Social Security.


The Senator was right in 2002, and, in fact, his prediction came true 
because his party abandoned pay-go, drove up deficits, drove up debt, 
and we are the worse for it as a nation.

If you wonder about pay-go, here is the record. We had strong pay-go 
in effect between 1993 and 2000. The deficit was reduced each and every 
year between 1993 and 1997 and, by 1998, we actually got into 
surpluses, as I indicated before, which rose in each year through 2000. 
Then our friends on the other side took charge of the White House. They 
immediately weakened pay-go, and we plunged right back into deficit. We 
put pay-go back into effect, and we are starting to dig out of the very 
deep hole they have dug.

On the issue of pay-go being waived, pay-go has been raised 16 times; 
pay-go has been waived once--once.

The Senator says pay-go is not working. I disagree. Excluding the 
alternative minimum tax provisions that were put in place last year to 
prevent the alternative minimum tax from costing 20 million people more 
taxes, instead of offsetting that, the alternative minimum tax was 
prevented from being expanded without paying for it. If you leave out 
that one item, the Senate pay-go has a scorecard with a positive 
balance of over $1.5 billion over 11 years.

Every bill sent to the President, other than the alternative minimum 
tax and the stimulus, which, of course, could not be offset if it was 
to have a stimulative effect--that was totally bipartisan, both those 
were totally bipartisan--every bill sent to the President other than 
those two has been paid for or more than paid for.

Pay-go also has a significant deterrent effect, preventing many 
costly bills from being offered.

With respect to the specifics of my colleague's criticism, I will 
enter into the Record every one of the items he referenced: immigration 
reform, the Energy bill, mental health parity, prescription drug user-
fee amendments, minimum wage, Water Resources Development Act. Every 
one of them is paid for. CHIP reauthorization, the farm bill--he just 
talked about the farm bill. The farm bill, which we will vote on 
sometime later today or tomorrow to overturn the President's veto, is 
totally pay-go compliant. It is paid for and without tax increases. 
Higher education, the reconciliation bill, the 2007 supplemental--every 
one of them in terms of the bill that actually went to the President is 
paid for.

When the Senator from New Hampshire calls pay-go ''swiss cheese-go,'' 
I call their budget approach ''easy cheese'' because they have faked 
fiscal responsibility around here long enough, and we are calling them 
on it because now we have their record, and their record is record 
deficits, record debt, record borrowing from abroad. That is their 
fiscal record. It is a fact. It can be checked. They are going to have 
a hard time running away from their record as we go into an election 
year.

Madam President, I see my colleague, Senator Murray, is here. How 
much time does the Senator wish?