---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1433, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE  VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007
## `af1ba19e7548114fd9f4ed6d273b44ee`
`Ms. NORTON — 22 March 2007`

---


Ms. NORTON. I thank the gentleman. And the gentleman has clarified 
something further concerning the right to vote in the people's House.

The reason I come is not, frankly, to engage early in the discussion 
we will be having on the bill itself; but because the discussion has 
been such an abstraction. I have come because that discussion has been 
as if the Framers set up a place, not a city with real people. It is as 
if you can discuss these rights without referring to whom these rights 
would belong.

Members have come to the floor with the hubris to believe that the 
Framers intended their constituents to have full rights under the 
Constitution, but not my constituents because we happen to live in the 
Capital of the United States created by the Framers.

I do want to let you know who you are talking about so that this 
discussion will not be all about constitutional and legal abstractions 
that can only be settled by the courts of the United States. You are 
talking about Kathryn Ray, who lives here and is a mom and a librarian 
and a PTA president. You are talking about Larry Chapman, who is a D.C. 
firefighter, putting his life on the line for emergency response here 
and throughout the city. You are talking about Liz Allen, an attorney 
who has had her first child and has decided to raise this son here in 
the District of Columbia even though her family is denied a vote.



You are talking about Wade Henderson, like me a native Washingtonian, 
president of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, who has fought 
every day for civil rights around the world but has never had a vote in 
Congress. Like me, he is an African American who grew up in this city 
when it was a segregated city. Like me, he understood that the 
composition of this city then and for centuries has had much to do with 
the denial of voting rights in this city. And so, like me, he has 
argued in these Halls that all citizens of the District of Columbia, of 
every background, finally have the rights that all other Americans now 
take for granted.

This bill is about Evelyn Curtis, a nurse at one of our hospitals, 
who would love to have a say on health care issues. She can talk to me, 
but I can't talk to you about what she believes by voting.

This bill is ultimately about 650,000 American citizens. When you are 
asked to vote on this bill in the middle of a war, when our citizens 
are among the troops on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan, remember 
that you will be voting not for my vote but for the votes of the people 
who live in the District of Columbia and especially for the votes of 
those Washingtonians who as I speak are serving in Iraq, Afghanistan 
and throughout the world in service to the United States of America.