---
---

# IN HONOR OF NAVY SEAL SPECIAL WARFARE OPERATOR FIRST CLASS JEREMY WISE
## `af211b969d5371ae946a2ffd1214b334`
`Mr. ROSS — 13 January 2010`

---


Mr. ROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a true American hero. 
On December 30, 2009, our state and nation lost a great patriot when 
former Navy SEAL Special Warfare Operator First Class Jeremy Wise, aged 
35, died in an attack on a CIA outpost near Khost, Afghanistan. He died 
when a terrorist detonated a bomb at the facility killing seven 
Americans in the attack.

Petty Officer Wise was raised in Arkansas by his loving parents, Dr. 
Jean and Mary Wise, and graduated from Hendrix College in Conway, 
Arkansas. Although I never had the honor to meet Petty Officer Wise, I 
extend my deepest condolences on behalf of all Arkansans to his family, 
friends, colleagues and acquaintances for this devastating loss.

Petty Officer Wise joined the U.S. Navy in 2001 where he rose to the 
rank of Special Warfare Operator First Class as a Navy SEAL, joining an 
elite group of service men and women. Petty Officer Wise served with 
the U.S. Navy until September 2009. After his Naval service, he headed 
to the front lines in Afghanistan as a security contractor doing the 
important work over there that needs to be done to secure our nation 
here at home. Throughout his extended period of service to our nation, 
Petty Officer Wise was an exemplary serviceman who embodied the true 
patriot.

My deepest thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Dana; son, Ethan; 
parents, Jean and Mary; and the rest of his family during this 
extraordinarily difficult time.

Today, I ask all members of Congress to join me as we honor the life 
of Navy SEAL Special Warfare Operator First Class Jeremy Wise and his 
legacy, as well as each man and woman in our armed forces, and those in 
harm's way supporting their efforts, who give the ultimate sacrifice in 
service to our great country.
