---
---

# MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO PROVISION GRANTING SPECIAL IMMIGRANT  STATUS FOR CERTAIN IRAQIS
## `af310c17a6f09f8894f12a0278d200e9`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 19 May 2008`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Now I must oppose this legislation, Mr. Speaker. It amends flawed 
legislation enacted this year that unjustifiably bypassed the normal 
committee process.



The National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2008 contained 
an expansive new refugee program that could result in well over 100,000 
refugee admissions to the United States over the next 5 years. This 
provision was never considered, let alone approved, by the Judiciary 
Committee or on the House floor.

It's simply irresponsible for this Congress to hand out over 100,000 
green cards without allowing for the normal deliberative review 
process. The provision grants 5,000 ''special immigrant'' green cards a 
year for the next 5 years to Iraqi nationals who meet the following 
criteria: They are citizens or nationals of Iraq; they were employed by 
or on behalf of the United States Government in Iraq on or after March 
20, 2003, and they were employed for not less than a year; they 
provided faithful and valuable service to the United States Government; 
and they have experienced or are experiencing an ongoing serious threat 
as a consequence of their employment by the U.S. Government.

Now, I would say, Mr. Speaker, that our military that served in the 
line of fire has experienced a threat as a consequence of their 
employment of the U.S. Government, so has most everyone who has served 
any duty in that country. And this is a wide-open definition that 
allows the State Department to make a determination based upon a broad 
definition that says if they've experienced an ongoing serious threat 
as a consequence of their employment, and ''ongoing'' is not defined.

This provision is well-intentioned, however, it is problematic for a 
number of reasons. First, the State Department estimates that each of 
the 5,000 beneficiaries will bring an average of four family members 
with them who will not count against the cap. Therefore, the provision 
would result in, according to State Department estimates, upwards of 
25,000 green cards being granted per year for 5 years. My math on that 
is 125,000, Mr. Speaker. Given that legal immigration now regularly 
exceeds 1 million persons a year, and the American people, by 
overwhelming margins, do not want to see further increases at least 
until we enforce the law and get operational control of the border, 
these numbers today are irresponsible.

Second, the provision will produce a drain for pro-U.S. and pro-
democracy Iraqis actually living in Iraq. This potential exodus may 
prove devastating to efforts to rebuild that country.

Third, the provision grants refugee status to aliens who do not meet 
the long-standing statutory definition of a refugee--a person who is 
persecuted or who has a well-founded fear of persecution on account of 
race, religion, nationality, membership in a social group, or political 
opinion. That's the definition that exists today that the State 
Department could act under, Mr. Speaker. But we should not be setting 
such precedent without very careful deliberation.

Fourth, terrorists could easily infiltrate this program and not only 
gain access to the U.S., but attain the benefits of legal permanent 
residence and then U.S. citizenship. These benefits include the ability 
to travel the world over with the knowledge that one can easily return 
to the U.S., leaving us more vulnerable.

The inclusion of this refugee program in the Department of Defense 
authorization bill without adequate deliberation was a mistake, and in 
this follow-on bill it also is a mistake. Therefore, I cannot support 
today's legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I would reserve the balance of my time.