# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `af455f58ce898bc615b778f9d693ba3c`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Mr. Speaker, let me thank my colleague from California 
for yielding and thank all of the Members for what has really been a 
very serious debate about our efforts in Iraq.

When we think about what we went through this past spring, the fight 
over funding our troops that went on for about 112 days here in the 
House, I had thought that we had come to some resolution. Forty-eight 
days ago we sent to the President of the United States a bill passed by 
this House, passed by the Senate and signed into law that would fund 
our troops through the end of September.



That same bill, we asked General Petraeus to report back to the 
Congress on July 15 his interim report and asked him to give a more 
complete report by September 15 of this year. And here we are some 48 
days later saying, we give up.

One can only imagine why this bill is on the floor today. If Members 
were serious about this bill, we would have seen it come through 
committee, come through the Rules Committee. No, no, this bill showed 
up Tuesday night about 9 o'clock out of thin air that we were going to 
have this debate this week. One can only look at what is happening on 
the floor of the House and describe it as a partisan political stunt, 
because that is exactly what it is.

This House voted to support our troops, to fund our troops, and to 
fund our effort in Afghanistan and in Iraq. And here we are, once 
again, back here posing for holy pictures, as our good friend from 
Wisconsin would say.

This bill that we have before us makes our troops pawns in a partisan 
political battle. I don't think that is what anyone wants. I think this 
bill on the floor today undermines General Petraeus and undermines the 
mission that he has to help make Iraq and America safe.

So what we have here is not leadership; it is negligence. My 
colleague, the majority leader, my friend from Maryland, and the 
Speaker of the House both say we want to fight the terrorists; we want 
to fight them where they are. Well, who is our biggest enemy in


Iraq today? Who is the biggest fight that we have in Iraq today? It is 
al Qaeda. Al Qaeda is losing, and that is why we see the bigger bombs 
going off and the bigger demonstrations and the bigger casualties, 
because they are losing and trying to influence public opinion here in 
the United States.

But what surprises me about what we are doing here today is the 
willful ignoring of the consequences of failure in Iraq. If we fail in 
Iraq, we know what happens, we make America less safe. We know that we 
will provide a safe haven for al Qaeda to operate around the world out 
of their new safe haven that they will have in Iraq. We will 
destabilize the Middle East, we will endanger Israel. We will embolden 
the Iranians even more than they have already been emboldened, and we 
will allow al Qaeda to be stronger and to be able to recruit more 
people to kill Americans and our allies around the world. These are 
serious consequences for the American people and our allies around the 
world, and we can't shrink from our responsibility here.

General Petraeus is making progress. Not as much progress as we would 
all like for him to make, but he is making progress on the ground, as 
he reported in the report that came out today. The Iraqi government has 
made some progress. Not nearly enough, but to just pull the rug out 
from under General Petraeus, to pull the rug out from under our troops 
that are in Iraq fighting for our freedom and fighting for the freedom 
of the Iraqi people at this moment is absolutely the most negligent 
action that I have seen this House take yet on this issue.

Why can't we sit back and allow General Petraeus's plan to have a 
chance to succeed? Why can't we wait until September 15, as we had all 
agreed, for his final report to come forward and to assess the progress 
that is being made and what, if any, new direction ought to be taken?

I believe, and I think the American people believe, that we ought to 
allow the generals on the ground in Iraq to make those suggestions to 
us and not sit back and let politicians here in Washington make 
decisions about our future and about our safety.

But while we are sitting here debating this meaningless bill that we 
have before us, we could be acting on serious legislation to help make 
America safer. There is a giant loophole in the terrorist surveillance 
program that means that activity between terrorists overseas cannot be 
acted upon and cannot be listened to by this government. There is 
information that would help make America safe, that would bring more 
terrorists to justice; information that is being left on the table 
because of partisan political games in this House. Why don't we bring 
the FISA modernization bill to this floor? Why don't we give the NSA 
the terrorist surveillance program and other agencies the ability to 
track these terrorist activities and these terrorist phone calls and 
information movement that we know today that we can't touch and we 
can't use?

We all know through reports over the last couple of days that al 
Qaeda has increased in its strength. We also know from news reports 
over the last couple of days that there has been increasing chatter 
among terrorists around the world. And yet here we are debating a 
meaningless bill that undermines our troops, ignoring the fact that 
there is information that could help keep America safer that we can't 
touch because this House will not act. I think that is negligent, and I 
think it is irresponsible.

I would urge my colleagues to let's let General Petraeus and the 
troops have a chance to succeed. Let's help them in their mission to 
help make Iraq safer and to make America safer, and the way we do that 
is to take this bill that we have before us and defeat it.