---
---

# IRAQ
## `af907dab9a5a18c248665c407d087606`
`Mr. GINGREY — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. I thank the gentleman, my good friend from Texas.

It is indeed an honor to be a part of this special leadership hour to 
share a little time with my colleagues, of course, Judge Carter leading 
the hour; Chris Shays, the gentleman from Connecticut, 18 trips to the 
Middle East, to some extent in harm's way.

I saw a couple of years ago, maybe it was 3 years ago, just happened 
to be channel surfing, watching C-SPAN. I guess I am an insomniac. 
There was Chris Shays having a town hall meeting talking to his 
constituents from Connecticut and taking some tough, the tough 
questions about this situation in the Middle East and why it was 
important and why he supported it. He outlined tonight the fact that he 
doesn't look at these things through rose-colored glasses. He 
understands that mistakes were made. We all do, but the mission is the 
mission.

He went on and talked about this surge and why it's so important that 
every Member on both sides of the aisle give it a chance to work. Judge 
Carter said the same thing, pointed out that this surge of 30,000 
troops wasn't even complete until the beginning of July. Yet, many of 
our colleagues, unfortunately, it seemed like most of them on the other 
side of the aisle, wanted to declare that the new way forward was a 
failure before it even started, before it had even begun.

I remember back when I first came, I had the honor to come to this 
body with some of my colleagues that are here tonight on the floor, and 
people saying, well, you know, this mistake, the big mistake is we 
didn't put enough troops on the ground. I guess that's what General 
Shinseki had recommended. My Democrat colleagues kept pounding away, 
well, we didn't have enough troops.

Then when the President, based really on the report of the Iraq Study 
Group, two of the most distinguished public servants in the Federal 
Government that any of us know, James Baker, Lee Hamilton, a Republican 
and a Democrat, came and said, you know, we need a surge of troops, 
that's exactly what the President did. And then my colleagues on the 
Democrat side of the aisle, most of them, not all, said, too little, 
too late.

How do you satisfy some folks? I listened very carefully, of course, 
to my good friend and colleague, a freshman, but he seemed so much more 
experienced, the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. David Davis), talking 
about if we lose, they win. He is absolutely right. That just is so 
simple but yet so profound, and I really compliment the gentleman from 
Tennessee making his first trip and having that insight, that wisdom we 
all pray for. That's what we need for us to win.

Indeed, this is tough; it's not easy. But I heard some of my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle during the 5-minute remarks 
tonight, I heard the gentlelady from California say it was 
unconscionable that the President is playing politics with the war in 
Iraq;


yet she, as a cofounder of the Out of Iraq Caucus, and many of her 
colleagues voted in favor before the August recess of every one of 
these, let's see if we can tie General Petraeus' hands behind his back.

So, surely they don't want us to do poorly in Iraq. Surely not. I 
don't suggest that. But I just remind them that this Commander in 
Chief, I may not agree with him on every single thing. I think the 
issue of stem cell research is something I support him on. Some of my 
colleagues on this side of the aisle do not. His thoughts about a 
comprehensive immigration reform that includes what I think is amnesty, 
I don't support him on. Some of my colleagues on this side of the aisle 
do. But I can I think in the final analysis, this President, it may 
take 25 years, it may take 50 years, but I believe people will look 
back and say thank God that this man was in this place at this time 
after 9/11 and had the courage to stand up to finally say, you know, 
double-dog daring and triple-dog daring doesn't work.

Mr. Davis talked about the marine barracks and the USS Cole and the 
hostages in Iran for the 400 and something days, the 52 hostages. This 
President, this Commander in Chief had the courage to stand strong.

Now, my colleague just mentioned I had gotten back from Iraq, my 
fourth trip. I will probably never catch Mr. Shays. But each and every 
trip, honestly, I think I learn more and more. I want my colleagues to 
understand that. These trips, I hope the American people will listen. 
These trips are bipartisan. We go and, you know, we hear the facts. And 
the old saying, you are entitled to your own opinion, but you are not 
entitled to your own facts.

But I feel very strongly that General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker 
are going to come back and come to us as required by law, which we 
insisted on September 15, at least by that date, maybe a little bit 
before that date, and give us an accurate, fair, balanced report.

They are not going to try to paint this picture too bright. They are 
going to be accurate. I have said all along, we need to wait for that 
report before we all try to become 535 commanders in chief, many of us, 
including myself, who are not even veterans.

So I was very encouraged, I said to my colleague, Representative 
Carter, on my trip, I think the troops are strong, absolutely. As 
Representative Shays said, they get weary, the families get weary. The 
American public is a little impatient. I understand that. War fatigue 
does set in. But this is not the time to give up. This is the time to 
be tough, stand strong and give victory a chance, because Mr. Davis 
said, if we don't, they win. The consequences of that are unfathomable.

As I conclude my remarks, I also want to say to a group of marines 
from my district, NAS Atlanta, deployed this morning, some of them for 
the third time. This is the ''Red Dogs'' HMLA-773, a squadron of 255 
marines. They are helicopter guys, Mr. Speaker, and they are light 
attack helicopters. They are going to be in a situation there at the al 
Assad Air Base. The President just made the trip over Labor Day weekend 
to meet with the troops. That's where they are going.

I saw them with their families, with their wives, with their little 
infant children. In one case, a little baby 2 weeks old was there in 
his mother's arms. There were cousins, there were aunts, there were 
uncles, and there were brothers and sisters and grandparents. It 
humbled me to stand among these heroes as I talked with them and told 
them how much, how deeply I think Members on both sides of the aisle 
appreciate their dedicated service to this country.

I wish them Godspeed and hope they will come back safe and sound to 
their loved ones.


But not one of them wavered, even though this may have been their 
second or third deployment. They are still strong, and that's the same 
thing that I saw when I went to Iraq on this recent trip.

God bless them. Let's hang in there for a little while longer. Then 
we are going to hear from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker on 
September 15, and it will be an encouraging bit of news.