---
---

# IN HONOR OF GENERAL T. MICHAEL MOSELEY
## `af9449fbebfd61455d01ed942d425785`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 26 June 2008`

---

 Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, as cochair of the 
Senate Air Force Caucus, I have been afforded a unique opportunity to 
get to know GEN T. Michael Moseley, former Air Force Chief of Staff. I 
believe he is best defined by three distinct traits: a commitment to 
excellence, compassion for those with whom he serves, and a deep 
appreciation for history.

Whether reviewing his time in the cockpit, eventually commanding the 
prestigious F-15 division of the Air Force's Fighter Weapons School; 
his service as a professor at the illustrious National War College; his 
command of distinguished units, such as the 33rd Operations Group and 
57th Wing; his pivotal role in executing the air wars over Afghanistan 
and Iraq as head of


the 9th Air Force; or his service as Air Force Chief of Staff, it is 
obvious that General Moseley has applied himself with incredible 
dedication and commitment. He truly understands the capabilities 
afforded through air, space, and cyberspace and has worked tirelessly 
to ensure that the Air Force excels in these critical domains.

In addition, General Moseley is deeply aware that it takes a team to 
launch a jet in the air and that every pilot needs a wingman; and he 
has, therefore, consistently sought to support the Air Force family. 
Most recently, these efforts have manifested themselves through 
ensuring predictable deployment schedules for Air Force personnel and 
their families, strengthening family wellness programs, upgrading 
family housing, increasing educational opportunities, and reaching out 
directly to Airmen through a variety of mediums to help promote an 
exchange of ideas.

It is also important to recognize that throughout his nearly four 
decades of service, General Moseley has displayed a deep appreciation 
for history and lessons learned from past events. This historical 
insight and perspective is critical as the U.S. Air Force looks to 
succeed in today's missions while simultaneously cultivating a force 
which will excel in the future. General Moseley worked to ensure that 
this informed approach will continue to flourish in the Service through 
the creation of the Analysis, Assessment, and Lessons-Learned 
Directorate on the Air Staff.

These achievements represent just a fraction of General Moseley's 
accomplishments; but one thing is clear--he has shown a tremendous 
commitment to his country. I would like to thank GEN T. Michael 
''Buzz'' Moseley for his dedication to duty over these past 36 years, 
and I wish him all the best in his future endeavors.
