---
---

# OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `af9e2102cfcde37e6dfa57689328535d`
`Mr. PENCE — 23 July 2007`

---


Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, at the outset I'd like to express my 
admiration to our distinguished chairman; our ranking member, Ms. Ros-
Lehtinen, as well as Mr. Sherman, for crafting this important 
legislation and for bringing it to the careful thought and 
consideration that colleagues and those looking on today would see 
easily in evidence in the gentleman from California's remarks, and I am 
grateful for his leadership.

Mr. Speaker, we all understand that from time to time the Overseas 
Private Investment Corporation has been the subject of controversy. On 
the other hand, it is accurate to say that it is significant that every 
President since 1971 has believed that OPIC is an important tool for 
advancing international development in U.S. foreign policy by 
stimulating private capital investment.

In recent years, OPIC appears to have better focused its resources 
and efforts, bringing economic development to underserved markets in 
Central America, Africa, Afghanistan, and now in Iraq.

OPIC has also reached out to U.S. small businesses and minority- and 
women-owned enterprises. For example, more than 80 percent of all OPIC 
projects approved in fiscal year 2006 involved U.S. small- and medium-
sized enterprises.

OPIC has also sought to enhance transparency and fight corruption, 
thereby leveling the playing field for U.S. businesses as they compete 
in international markets.

It's also worth noting that OPIC is embarking on new efforts to 
encourage investments that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote 
the use of clean energy; and by charging market-based fees for its 
products, OPIC continues to operate as a self-sustaining agency, which 
I applaud, effectively operating at no net cost to taxpayers and 
returning net income every year of operation, with reserves now 
totaling more than $5 billion.

On balance, then, despite controversy, I believe OPIC continues to 
serve foreign policy interests of the United States, and I urge support 
of this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.