# None
## `afa7220c6ce04dabd335cb35135669f8`
`Mr. WEBB — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I first express my thanks to the Senator 
from Delaware for his service and also for his comments on this 
amendment.

I come to the floor because I heard the other side of the aisle may 
be deciding to filibuster this amendment. I wish to, first of all, 
express my surprise that this filibuster might occur which, as the 
Chair knows, would increase the requirement of 60 votes in order for 
the amendment to proceed.

This is a very simple and very fair amendment. I would like to 
express my opinions about some of the comments that have been made, as 
I was outside listening to different people from the media telling me 
what some of the reservations from the other side have been on this 
amendment. The comments that have been made are not accurate.

There are people who are saying this amendment is unconstitutional in 
the sense that only the Commander in Chief should be able to make 
decisions regarding the deployment of troops during a war.

First of all, article I, section 8 of our Constitution is very clear 
on this point. It states that ''The Congress shall have the Power . . . 
To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval 
Forces. . . .''

This is well within the Constitution. In fact, there is much 
precedent when people who are opposed to this amendment discuss that it 
might be tying the President's hands unnecessarily. We can go back to 
the dark days of the Korean war, where because of the national 
emergency that was caused from the invasion of South Korea by the 
North, we didn't have enough troops available, and the administration 
at the time started sending soldiers into Korea who had not been fully 
trained and the Congress acted within its constitutional purview and 
passed a law that said no individual who is brought into the U.S. 
military can be sent overseas unless they have been in the military for 
120 days.

The reason the Congress acted was to protect the well-being of those 
who served, and that is exactly what we are proposing to do today. We 
are saying that whatever your beliefs are about this war, whether you 
want it to end in 5 weeks or whether you want it to go on for the next 
10 years, we have to come to some common agreement among the leadership 
of the United States that we are going to protect the well-being of our 
troops, the people who step forward to serve in these times.

The minimum we can do is to set a floor that basically says: However 
long you are deployed, you can have that much time back at home. Or if 
you are in the National Guard or Reserve, if you have been deployed, 
you deserve to have three times that much time at home.

The historical standard is if you have been deployed overseas or if 
you have been deployed on a deployment, you should have twice as much 
time at home. The Commandant of the Marine Corps earlier this year, 
when he undertook the duties of being Commandant, said that his goal 
was to bring in a 2-to-1 rotational cycle for the Marine Corps. Given 
the requirements of Iraq, 2 to 1. We are now at 1 to 1, with a good 
portion of that time back home being spent in workups for these units 
and for these individuals to go back.

The Army, as a result of this surge, now has a policy where they are 
saying you go to Iraq for 15 months, and we will guarantee you 12 
months at home. That is not even 1 to 1.

Our amendment establishes a floor. It is reasonable. It doesn't have 
anything to do with political objectives of the war downstream. That 
can be sorted out later. We are simply saying, if you have been gone 
for a year, you deserve to be back for a year. If you have been gone 
for 7 months, you deserve to


be back for 7 months, unless you want to go back. If you want to go 
back, fine. You can volunteer to go back. Our amendment does not stop 
that. Or if there is an operational emergency where the President 
certifies there is a requirement, then the President can waive this 
amendment. We are trying to set a policy of stability so military 
families can predict what their cycle is going to be and have enough 
time to truly become involved with their families again, have some 
downtime, then refurbish, retrain, and go back.

I suggest to the other side that if they believe this is an amendment 
that is incompatible with military service, they might want to consider 
a letter I received today from the Military Officers Association of 
America. This is the largest and most influential association of 
military officers in the country. It is composed of 360,000 members 
from every branch of the military. They wrote me today. I will read 
portions of this letter:




 On behalf of the 368,000 members of the Military Officers 


 Association, I am writing to express our support for your 


 amendment. The MOAA is very concerned that steps must be 


 taken to protect our most precious military asset--the all-


 volunteer force--from having to bear such a disproportionate 


 share of national wartime sacrifice. If we are not better 


 stewards of our troops--


This is the president of the MOAA, VADM Norbert Ryan, U.S. Navy 
retired, saying this--




 If we are not better stewards of our troops and their 


 families in the future than we have been in the recent past, 


 we believe strongly that we will be putting the all-volunteer 


 force at unacceptable risk.


I submit to the President and this body, this is not the kind of 
statement that would be made from a group of 368,000 military officers 
unless they believed in the constitutionality and the propriety of what 
we are attempting to do.

I say to my colleagues, and particularly to my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle, I am very disappointed in the notion that an 
amendment with this simplicity that goes to the well-being of our 
troops might even be considered as a filibuster. I say to my colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle that the American people are watching us 
today, and they are watching closely, with the expectation that we 
finally can take some sort of positive action that might stabilize the 
operational environment in which our troops are being sent again and 
again. The American people are tired of the posturing that is giving 
the Congress such a bad reputation. They are tired of the procedural 
strategies designed to protect politicians' accountability and to 
protect this administration from judgment. They are looking for 
concrete action that will protect the well-being of our men and women 
in uniform.


The question on this amendment is not whether one supports the war or 
whether they do not. It is not whether someone wants to wait until mid-
July or September to see where one particular set of benchmarks or 
summary might be taking us. The situation is simply this: More than 4 
years into the ground operation in Iraq, we owe stability and a 
reasonable cycle of deployment to the men and women who are carrying 
our Nation's burdens. That is the question.