---
---

# None
## `afb717f943aa28707b53ecf484601bd0`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I also want to 
thank the chairman and ranking member for including this amendment in 
the en bloc.

Mr. Chairman, McGovern-Jones-Welch is a straightforward, bipartisan 
amendment. It requires the President to certify that the Afghanistan 
Independent Election Commission and the Afghan Electoral Complaints 
Commission have the professional capacity, legal authority and 
independence to carry out and oversee free, fair and honest elections, 
absent the fraud that characterized the 2009 presidential elections, 
before U.S. taxpayer dollars can support the next round of elections. I 
don't think that that's too much to ask.

I was in Afghanistan just after the 2009 elections. I didn't meet 
anyone who thought that those elections were honest. The Embassy told 
me they were a fraud. The U.N. said they were a fraud. The Afghan 
people knew they were a fraud. Even President Karzai conceded that they 
were massively fraudulent. And $200 million of U.S. taxpayer money went 
into those elections. Just think about it, $200 million. I don't want 
to see history repeat itself. I don't want the American taxpayer ripped 
off again.

More is at stake than the waste of money. The U.S. military strategy 
depends on an honest, competent Afghan government that can win the 
loyalty of the people. If September's parliamentary elections are also 
fraudulent, the result could be even greater local and regional 
turmoil.

No matter where you stand on our policy on Afghanistan, let's make 
sure that the September elections are free, fair and honest. This 
amendment strengthens our leverage. Our uniformed men and women are 
fighting and dying in Afghanistan. The least we can ask is that the 
Afghan government carries out free, fair and honest elections.








 [From the Los Angeles Times, May 10, 2010]













U.S. Lost in Afghan Vote













(By Peter W. Galbraith)




 Will we ever learn? In 2009, Afghan President Hamid Karzai, 


 who will meet with President Obama in Washington this week, 


 ripped off American taxpayers for about $200 million. This is 


 what the United States contributed to support presidential 


 elections that Karzai himself admits were massively 


 fraudulent. Now, the United Nations and the Obama 


 administration propose to fund Afghanistan's parliamentary 


 elections in September, even though new rules pushed through 


 by Karzai--over the opposition of parliament--make fraud even 


 more likely this time.



 Afghanistan's Independent Election Commission, or IEC, a 


 body appointed by Karzai and subservient to his wishes, was 


 deeply implicated in the 2009 fraud. The commission and its 


 staff either produced the phony tallies--which gave Karzai 


 more than 1 million of his 3 million votes--or collaborated 


 with those who did. In many instances, the commission 


 reported pro-Karzai results from polling centers that never 


 existed.



 Fortunately, Afghanistan also had in place a truly 


 independent body, the Electoral Complaints Commission, which 


 was empowered to investigate fraud. Three members of that 


 commission were appointed by the United Nations, and none of 


 its members was chosen by Karzai. After investigating the 


 election, the group tossed out enough phony Karzai votes to 


 force the president into a runoff with the second-highest 


 vote-getter, Abdullah Abdullah. In the end, that second 


 election wasn't held because Abdullah withdrew after the IEC 


 adopted procedures that made fraud even more likely in the 


 runoff.



 The fact that Karzai retained the presidency didn't mollify 


 him. Angered by the complaint commission's actions after the 


 first round of last year's vote, and determined to gain full 


 control over Afghanistan's election machinery, Karzai issued 


 a decree in February giving himself the authority to appoint 


 all five members of the Electoral Complaints Commission. He 


 also stripped the group of its power to initiate reviews of 


 suspicious ballots on its own. In the parliamentary 


 elections, the group will be allowed to act only on 


 complaints referred to it by members of the provincial 


 election commissions, all of whom are appointed by Karzai.



 The United Nations, which is supposed to help the Afghans 


 hold honest elections, and the United States, which will pick 


 up most of the tab for them, have responded far too meekly to 


 Karzai's power grab. Staffan de Mistura, the new head of the 


 U.N. mission in Afghanistan, negotiated a deal with Karzai 


 under which two U.N.-nominated international election experts 


 were appointed to the complaints commission, and one of them 


 will have veto power. Because of this compromise, De Mistura 


 is recommending that Western donors proceed with funding the 


 election. The Obama administration, wishing to move beyond a 


 recent harsh exchange of words with Karzai (during which 


 Karzai bizarrely alleged that foreigners, including the U.S. 


 and the U.N., were responsible for fraud in the last 


 election), seems inclined to agree.



 But the proposed compromise is a sham. Karzai's three 


 appointees can outvote the two U.N. choices, and the 


 compromise does not restore the Electoral Complaints 


 Commission's power to initiate independently reviews of 


 suspicious votes.



 There is only one positive note I've seen in the whole 


 mess, and that is that Karzai unexpectedly appointed Fazel 


 Ahmad Manawi as the new head of the IEC, replacing a chairman 


 deeply implicated in the fraud. This was a pleasant surprise. 


 I met Manawi, a respected Islamic scholar from the Panjshir 


 Valley, an opposition stronghold, when I was deputy head of 


 the U.N. mission in 2009. At the time, he was one of seven 


 members of the IEC, and he was clearly a person of integrity, 


 casting the sole vote against the decision to ratify Karzai's 


 fraudulent election. But Manawi remains only one vote on a 


 commission stacked with Karzai loyalists, and the leading 


 candidate for the position of chief electoral officer is 


 Zekria Barakzai, a smooth-talking IEC official who was a 


 public apologist for the fraud.



 Much more is at stake in Afghanistan's elections than the 


 waste of millions more U.S. dollars. Our counterinsurgency 


 strategy depends on an honest and competent Afghan government 


 that can win the loyalty of the population. During eight 


 years in office, the Karzai administration has been 


 ineffective and corrupt. Since Karzai's disputed reelection, 


 many Afghans also question his legitimacy.



 If September's parliamentary elections are fraudulent, it 


 could lead to an ethnically based civil war. Afghanistan's 


 opposition dominates the parliament and has come out strongly 


 against the new electoral procedures. The parliament is the 


 one national institution that effectively represents 


 Afghanistan's non-Pashtun minorities; the speaker of the 


 lower house is an ethnic Tajik who was the runner-up to 


 Karzai in the 2004 elections.



 The Obama administration, now that it has tenuously patched 


 up relations with Karzai after his anti-American tirades last 


 month, is reluctant to confront the Afghan president over 


 electoral procedures. This reluctance is shortsighted. 


 Insisting on procedures for honest elections now will be far 


 less costly, both in lives and money, than having another 


 crooked election that ends up with U.S. troops mired in even 


 greater chaos and a broadening civil war. The Taliban will be 


 the only true winner of yet another phony election in 


 Afghanistan.



 Peter W. Galbraith was deputy special representative of the 


 secretary-general of the United Nations to Afghanistan from 


 June to September 2009.
