---
---

# IRAQ
## `afc5ece29036a2939ef4e3cc7166b6b8`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise this morning, first of all, to 
congratulate my colleagues. Senator Alexander has worked tirelessly 
with us in putting together the legislation on the implementation of 
the Iraq Study Group recommendations. He has been a key leader in 
trying to pull a group of us together to try to develop a new direction 
going forward in Iraq. I thank him for his leadership.

I also wish to thank both Senator Pryor and Senator Casey for joining 
us as cosponsors of this legislation. They are people who are trying to 
search for a solution on the Democratic side, and I very much 
appreciate their efforts. As for Senator Gregg and Senator Bennett, I 
appreciate also their statements, their cosponsorship of this 
legislation, and their desire to come forward to a solution that might 
unite us in the Senate on a way forward.

Let me say at the outset that when we think about what it is we are 
trying to do with respect to Iraq at this point in time, we have a lot 
of people who are looking backward and saying there are lots of 
problems, lots of failures that have happened--from prewar 
intelligence, to decisions going into Iraq, to the prosecution of the 
war, et cetera--but the fact is we are there now. The fact is, we have 
140,000 American troops on the ground in Iraq today. So the real 
question for us ought to be, as the Congress, how it is we are going to 
move forward together.

I think in the broadest sense there is not a disagreement on what it 
is we want. What is the end stake for us in Iraq? We want to bring our 
troops home. I think we all would like to have our troops back home, 
reunited with their families and out of harm's way. That is the goal we 
want to get to. The second goal we want to get to is a stable Iraq and 
a stable Middle East. The fact is, Iraq does not stand alone. It is in 
a sea of very difficult political turmoil at this point in time. So we 
want us to have success in Iraq.

There has been a lot of debate about what it is we ought to have been 
doing in Iraq over the last several years. But the only group that has 
taken a significant amount of time and thought through the best way 
forward in Iraq was the Iraq Study Group. It was this bipartisan group 
of leaders, led by former Secretary of State James Baker and 
Congressman Hamilton, as cochairs of a bipartisan commission of elder 
states men and women, that came up with the most thoughtful, 
comprehensive approach on the way forward.

The essence of what that report said is that the Iraqi Government has 
a responsibility to move forward and to meet the milestones that are 
set forth for success in that report. It says: If you do that, Iraqi 
Government, we, the United States, are going to be there to help you. 
On the other hand, if you don't do that, we, the United States, are 
going to reduce our help to you. It is an effort to put pressure on the 
Iraqi Government and the Iraqi people to


deal with the sectarian violence they have in place and to move forward 
in a fashion that will create stability in Iraq.

I am hopeful, as we move forward from this day, and by the time we 
come back from the Memorial Day break, that besides the six Senators 
who have joined as cosponsors of this legislation, we will have 
additional cosponsors. At the end of the day, it seems to me that we, 
as the Congress, have a responsibility to the men and women who are on 
the ground in Iraq to try to find a common way forward.

On the issue of war and peace, there should not be a Republican and 
Democratic divide. What we ought to be doing is trying to find a common 
way forward where we can bring Democrats and Republicans together to an 
understanding of how we will ultimately achieve success in Iraq and 
bring our troops home.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I thank my colleague from 
Tennessee, Senator Alexander.