---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2965, DON'T  ASK, DON'T TELL REPEAL ACT OF 2010
## `afd109c620b8048a2ab84007d2a5cda8`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 15 December 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. It is moving to hear so many members of the 
United States military who have served to come to the floor and honor 
the flag and the Constitution. I am not that fortunate to have served 
in the military, but I have been fortunate enough to travel amongst 
them, from Kosovo to Bosnia to Albania to Iraq and Afghanistan and 
places within those nations.

If I have observed anything, I've observed men and women who 
understand the Constitution and take great pride to be on the front 
lines to be able to say I live in a country of the land of the free and 
the brave. So I ask today for my colleagues to be brave and to be free, 
to unshackle themselves of stereotypes and to repeal the Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell and vote for the rule and the underlying bill. Do it in the 
name of my constituent, a young man by the name of Seaman Provost, who 
had the unfortunate circumstances, I believe, of being considered 
someone who should not be in the United States Navy.

So I would call upon those who believe in the Constitution, who 
understand the values of the human rights campaign of which I had the 
privilege of receiving notice from, that we all are created equal. It 
is time now to bust this unholy alliance that suggests that men and 
women whose lifestyles may be different do not have a heart of gold and 
love the red, white, and blue. It is time now for America to be 
America.

Let us vote for this rule and the underlying bill. Let us vote for 
freedom, stand for all those who are brave, and stand behind the men 
and women who fight for us every single day of their lives. God bless 
all of them.