---
---

# None
## `afdf0fde3ab2a35285e95d979bf98952`
`Mr. DREIER — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume, 
and I look forward to yielding to my friend from Worcester if he would 
like to engage in a colloquy with me on this issue.

Now, my friend has basically stood here basically buttressing the 
entire argument I made in my opening statement. Who is it that's a 
proponent of corruption? My friend has argued, Madam Speaker, that if 
you are opposed to corruption, you have no choice but to support this 
resolution.

Here's the thing that concerns me greatly, and I'd be happy to yield 
to my friend if he would like to challenge me on this at all. Here's 
the thing that troubles me greatly, Madam Speaker.

As we stand here at this moment, we regularly have Members of the 
other side of the aisle accusing this administration of not coming 
forward with all the facts. And what is it that this resolution does? 
This resolution actually ignores the facts, and I will go through again 
the quotes from Judge Radhi Hamza al-Radhi who, in fact, said time and 
time again that the issue of our support for the effort of rooting out 
corruption in Iraq is one that must continue, and unfortunately, all 
we're doing is pointing a finger of blame here.

I would say to my friend that, as we look at this issue, why not 
seize the opportunity that the State Department has offered to make 
sure that you can have a full classified briefing and then make the 
determination as to whether or not something should or should not be 
classified? That's the way it should be handled, rather than this broad 
brush, sweeping approach saying that if you, Madam Speaker, are somehow 
opposed to corruption you have no choice but to support this 
resolution.

Of course we support the effort to ensure that we don't have 
corruption, but to see this ploy trying to paint people in a corner 
with just a little bit of the facts is, I think, a great disservice to 
our quest to root out corruption. And I believe very strongly, Madam 
Speaker, that it is essential for us, on behalf of the American people 
and on behalf of the model that we are trying to provide that 
corruption is bad, to make sure that this resolution provides all of 
the facts as we move forward.