---
---

# CONDEMNING THE ONGOING PALESTINIAN ROCKET ATTACKS ON ISRAELI CIVILIANS
## `afe4cab41a91b953a440dae43c0b1735`
`Mr. PAUL — 6 March 2008`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H. Res. 951, a 
resolution to condemn Palestinian rocket attacks on Israeli civilians. 
As one who is consistently against war and violence, I obviously do not 
support the firing of rockets indiscriminately into civilian 
populations. I believe it is appalling that Palestinians are firing 
rockets that harm innocent Israelis, just as I believe it is appalling 
that Israel fires missiles into Palestinian areas where children and 
other non-combatants are killed and injured.

Unfortunately, legislation such as this is more likely to perpetuate 
violence in the Middle East than contribute to its abatement. It is our 
continued involvement and intervention--particularly when it appears to 
be one-sided--that reduces the incentive for opposing sides to reach a 
lasting peace agreement.

Additionally, this bill will continue the march toward war with Iran 
and Syria, as it contains provocative language targeting these 
countries. The legislation oversimplifies the Israel/Palestine conflict 
and the larger unrest in the Middle East by simply pointing the finger 
at Iran and Syria. This is another piece in a steady series of 
legislation passed in the House that intensifies enmity between the 
United States and Iran and Syria. My colleagues will recall that we saw 
a similar steady stream of provocative legislation against Iraq in the 
years before the U.S. attack on that country.

I strongly believe that we must cease making proclamations involving 
conflicts that have nothing to do with the United States. We incur the 
wrath of those who feel slighted while doing very little to slow or 
stop the violence.
