# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 VETO MESSAGE FROM  THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `aff20429b53216379c8a56524b24845a`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 14 March 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, it is not often that I agree with the 
President and although I oppose overriding the President's veto of this 
bill, I still don't agree with him. I am opposed to the override 
because I am opposed to H.R. 2082, the Intelligence Authorization Act. 
However, I reject the President's reasons for vetoing this legislation.

I want to thank all of those who served in gathering intelligence to 
protect the American people. However, I voted against the veto override 
because I do not support the underlying bill. Through the emergence of 
several high-profile classified leaks to the media it has become 
apparent that our intelligence agencies need to be reformed.

From these media leaks, we became aware of the efforts to manipulate 
intelligence, to falsify a cause for war against Iraq. We became aware 
of the illegal NSA domestic wiretapping program without a court order. 
We became aware of the rumored CIA detention centers in Eastern Europe, 
and the CIA's extraordinary rendition program, used to transport 
suspects to other nations with less restrictive torture policies. It is 
regrettable that intelligence is often reshaped to fit doctrine instead 
of doctrine being reshaped in the face of the facts of intelligence.

The President's opposition to H.R. 2082 was focused on his objection 
to a provision in the bill that would have required adherence to the 
Army Field Manual (AFM) on Interrogations by all 16 U.S. intelligence 
agencies, including the CIA. This provision would specifically prohibit 
acts of torture and abuse. The President's veto of the bill 
demonstrates a disconcerting disregard for human rights.

I fully support banning the use of interrogation techniques that are 
not authorized by the Army Field Manual on Interrogation. This 
provision in the Intelligence Authorization shows a commitment by the 
United States and this body to end torture that is sponsored by the 
U.S. and restore the rule of law.

This body and the President have a responsibility to take action to 
end all U.S. sponsored torture, cruel, inhumane and degrading 
treatment. Our constitution, federal criminal statutes and Senate-
ratified treaties compel us to meet this goal. Both the laws and values 
of America demand an end to the abhorrent practice of torture.

Requiring our intelligence agencies to abide by the proven 
interrogation methods of the Army Field Manual on Interrogation is a 
first step to restoring public confidence at home and abroad.
