# TRIBUTE TO ARMY CORPORAL DUNCAN CHARLES CROOKSTON
## `affc1557ac61b416b95c9fb667983179`
`Ms. DeGETTE — 28 February 2008`

---


Ms. DeGETTE. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor the courageous life and 
the ultimate sacrifice of Army CPL Duncan Charles Crookston. This 
exceptional soldier merits our recognition and esteem as his character 
and devotion to duty decreed that he put the needs of others before his 
own. Corporal Crookston possessed the virtues that define an honorable 
life.

Tragically, Corporal Crookston was taken from us as a result of 
complications arising from severe injuries received in an attack and 
roadside blast along one of Baghdad's deadliest roads. Three of his 
comrades were killed and one other was wounded when an explosively 
formed penetrator blasted through their vehicle. Corporal Crookston 
died on Friday, January 25, 2008, at Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort 
Sam Houston in San Antonio, Texas. This fine young man was only 20 
years old and while many of us have been blessed to live a longer life, 
I believe that few of us will have lived one of such consequence in 
service of our Nation's cause.

Corporal Crookston was the son of Christopher and Lee Crookston. He 
enlisted in the United States Army after graduating from West High 
School in Denver, Colorado. He became an airborne infantryman and was 
assigned to the 1st Infantry Division out of Fort Riley, Kansas. Prior 
to his deployment to Iraq, he married his high school sweetheart, 
Meaghun. Comrades in arms noted that he was very intelligent and ''able 
to complete a Rubik's cube in under 56 seconds.'' He became his unit's 
resident expert in computers and other electronic devices. He is 
remembered as someone who ''helped everyone out whenever they needed 
him'' . . . (a person who was) ''full of life'' . . . ''a kind guy 
(who) was very loving and selfless, one in a million . . . (a man) who 
was willing to give up his life for other people.''

I never had the honor of meeting Corporal Crookston but it is clearly 
evident that he was raised by a good family to be a decent, responsible 
and honorable person. He loved our country and volunteered to take his 
place among those who put themselves in harms way because of a singular 
and abiding devotion to this nation. Corporal Crookston understood his 
obligations and, in the words of Abraham Lincoln on the battlefield at 
Gettysburg, he gave ''his last full measure of devotion'' . . . so that 
others may live a better life. All Americans are in his debt. His 
devotion to duty in the war against terrorism and his uncommon valor in 
the face of mortal danger leave us with a legacy of courage and honor 
to which very few can aspire. Among other awards including the Army 
Commendation Medal and the Purple Heart, the United States Army awarded 
Corporal Crookston the Bronze Star.

Please join me in paying tribute to the life and sacrifice of United 
States Army CPL Duncan Charles Crookston, a distinguished soldier. His 
life was exemplary and his contributions are rich in consequence. On 
behalf of the citizens of the 1st Congressional District of


Colorado, I wish to extend our admiration and profound gratitude for 
this most honorable American. Our thoughts and prayers are with his 
widow, Meaghan, his parents, Christopher and Lee, and his five 
brothers.
