# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `b009354ba5c1f4d66337ca1cb2019433`
`Ms. SNOWE â€” 22 March 2007`

---


Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of an 
amendment that my friend and colleague from Arkansas, Senator Lincoln, 
and myself have offered to the budget resolution, which will help to 
ensure that our Nation's courageous veterans receive the benefits and 
compensation that they have earned in a timely and efficient manner 
from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).

Every year, hundreds of thousands of America's finest look to the 
Veterans


Benefits Administration (VBA) to process their claims for disability 
compensation, pensions and other entitlements due them as a result of 
their unselfish and steadfast service to our Nation. However, according 
to a VBA Workload Report in 2006, the total number of pending 
compensation and pension claims increased nearly 17 percent over 2006, 
from 517,574 to 604,308 cases--and as of last week, the backlog had 
grown to 647,405 cases. On top of this, our country's aging veterans' 
population and influx of service men and women who will enter the VA 
system after returning from Iraq and Afghanistan will inexorably lead 
to an increase in the VBA's workload.

The lengthy delay that many veterans endure to receive their benefits 
from the VA is simply unacceptable. Therefore, I believe it is vital 
for the Department of Veterans Affairs to have the resources necessary 
to promptly deliver benefits to veterans by adjudicating and processing 
their claims in a timely and accurate fashion. Given the critical 
financial importance of disability payments for veterans and their 
families, the VA has an undeniable responsibility to maintain an 
effective delivery system and to take decisive and appropriate action 
to correct deficiencies as soon as they become evident.

On March 7, 2007, the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs received 
testimony from Rick Surratt, the Deputy National Legislative Director 
of the Disabled America Veterans, who highlighted the staffing 
shortages that have hindered the VA's ability to process claims. 
Surratt stated:




 Past Reductions in staffing levels degraded VA's ability to 


 process and decide disability claims in a correct and timely 


 manner. After falling behind, it never fully recovered. With 


 continued growth in the volume and complexity of claims for 


 disability benefits, VA has not requested the resources 


 necessary to overcome the existing backlog and stay abreast 


 of that growth. . . .


On December 4, 2006, Senator Lincoln and I joined with 33 of our 
colleagues to send a letter to the President, respectfully requesting 
that his fiscal year 2008 budget submission to Congress includes 
adequate funding for additional staff and resources necessary to 
address the growing backlog of pending claims at the VBA. According to 
the President's fiscal year 2008 budget, the average length of time to 
process a veteran's disability claim has dropped to 177 days, and the 
President's new budget will lower that processing time to 145 days. 
Although Senator Lincoln and I applaud the President's recent efforts 
to improve the veterans' claims process, we still feel that our 
Nation's veterans deserve much better.

Therefore, our amendment will directly address the staff and resource 
shortages at the VBA by providing $64.5 million in order to hire an 
additional 600 disability claims processors. Additionally, the Board of 
Veterans Appeals, whose workload has increased by 82.5 percent since 
2001--to an estimated 40,000 cases by the end of 2007--has seen 
decreases in staff levels during the same period. As a result, a GAO 
report found that it took an average of 657 days to resolve these 
appeals. Our amendment will provide the Board of Veterans Appeals with 
$4.1 million to hire an additional 32 processors in order to expedite 
the adjudication process to acceptable levels.

I also believe that comprehensive training and skill certification 
programs must be implemented in order to reduce the claims backlog and 
ensure that processing personnel make accurate decisions. The 
prevalence of new and complex disability claims resulting from 
posttraumatic stress disorder, PTSD, and traumatic brain injury, TBI, 
provide further evidence of the VA's need for a larger and more 
advanced processing staff. Thus, our amendment will provide a 1-year 
cost for increased training resources and quality measures with 
$400,000 for training and performance support systems and $400,000 for 
skills certification.

I have nothing but the utmost respect for those brave Americans who 
served in uniform with honor, courage, and distinction. The obligation 
our Nation holds for its veterans is enormous, and it is an obligation 
that must be fulfilled every day. At a time when over 600,000 
courageous men and women have returned from combat in both Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and over 24,000 servicemembers have been wounded since the 
onset of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, 
Congress must now do everything in its power to answer our veterans' 
call, to ensure that they receive the benefits that they rightly earned 
and rightly deserve. I strongly urge my colleagues to support this 
amendment. Our veterans deserve nothing less.