# IRAQ SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING
## `b016d8aaa33bf3243857d323aec3709c`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 1 May 2007`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President, I come to the floor today to express 
my deep disappointment and the disappointment of so many people in my 
State with the President's expected decision to veto the supplemental 
funding bill delivered to him by the bipartisan majority in Congress. 
This bill provided our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan with all the 
equipment and the resources they need to continue the duties they have 
been so bravely performing for more than 4 years. The amount 
appropriated by Congress rose well above the amount the President 
requested to give our soldiers on the battlefield. Let it be clear: 
Congress has given our soldiers on the battlefield all the funding they 
need. It is the President who will now be blocking it.

A few weeks ago, I was driving in Minnesota. It was a beautiful 
spring day outside of Ortonville, MN, and as has happened too many 
times in my short time as a Senator, I called one of the mothers of the 
Minnesota soldiers who died in this war. Of the 22,000 troops the 
President has included in this surge, 3,000 of them are Minnesota Guard 
and Reserves who were expected to come home in January and February and 
now have been extended. Now the moms I am calling are the moms of these 
soldiers who would have been home in January or February.

I asked this mother: How are you doing?

She said: You know, people keep asking me that, and I don't really 
know what to say. Do you have any ideas about what I should say?

I thought, and I told her: Well, I can tell you what all the other 
mothers have been saying. They have been saying that they wake up every 
morning and they try hard to hang together for their family, and then 
something happens. They see a picture or they remember something, and 
they are never the same for the rest of the day. They have their good 
moments, but their lives will never be the same.

I told her that her son stood tall, and that now is the time for 
people in Washington to stand tall.

After 4 years of extensive American military involvement in Iraq, the 
President refuses to accept the prudent change of course recommended by 
the bipartisan Iraq Study Group and supported by a clear majority of 
the American people. By passing this bill, we in Congress fulfilled our 
constitutional duties to, first, continue funding for America's Armed 
Forces in harm's way and, second, to ensure that our Government pursues 
policies in the best interests of our soldiers and of our Nation.

As we work with the President in the days and weeks and months to 
come, we must continue to advocate for the necessary changes in our 
strategy in Iraq. It is with this spirit that we in Congress continue 
to reach out to the President for a responsible change of course in 
Iraq.

Last month, I visited Baghdad and Fallujah. I saw firsthand the 
bravery and commitment of our troops. The very best thing we can do for 
these young men and women is not only give them the equipment they 
deserve but to get this policy right. This means sending a clear 
message to the Iraqi Government that we are not staying there 
indefinitely. This means, as recommended by the bipartisan Iraq Study 
Group, that we begin the process of redeploying our troops, with the 
goal of withdrawing combat forces by next year, while acknowledging 
that some troops may remain to train the Iraqi police and special 
forces to provide security for those who remain and to conduct special 
operations. This means not a surge in troops but a surge in diplomacy 
and economy and Iraqi responsibility.

When I was over in Baghdad and Fallujah, I saw many things, including 
the bravery of our troops. I was struck a few weeks later when another 
delegation of people from Congress went there, and one of the 
Congressmen returned and said he had been visiting a market there. He 
said it reminded him of a farmers market in Indiana.

Those are not the enduring memories of my trip to Iraq. My most 
enduring memory is standing on the tarmac in the Baghdad Airport with 
nine firefighters from the Duluth National Guard, who called me over to 
stand with them while they saluted as six caskets draped in the 
American flag were loaded onto a plane. As every casket was loaded on, 
they saluted. They were standing tall for their fallen soldiers that 
day. Now is our time for Congress to stand tall. Our troops have done 
everything they have been asked to do. They have deposed an evil 
dictator, and they gave the Iraqi people the opportunity to vote and 
establish a new government. It is now the Iraqi Government's 
responsibility to govern.

But stability and progress in Iraq depend on the political reforms 
Iraqi leaders have promised many times yet failed to deliver. After 4 
years, despite many promises, Iraq has yet to approve a provincial 
election law. After 4 years, despite many promises, Iraq has yet to 
approve a law to share oil revenues. After 4 years, despite many 
promises, Iraq has yet to approve a debaathification law to promote 
reconciliation. After 4 years, despite many promises, Iraq has yet to 
approve a law reining in the militia. Our men and women in uniform 
cannot deliver these kinds of reforms to Iraq. This is up to the Iraqis 
themselves.

As the bipartisan Iraq Study Group recommended, Iraqi leaders must 
pay a price if they continue to fail to make good on key reforms they 
have promised the Iraqi people. After 4 years, what have we gotten? 
Benchmarks


without progress, promises without results, claims of accountability 
without any consequences. Why should we expect the Iraqi leaders to do 
any better when they know the President continues to accept their 
excuses for inaction and fails to impose any penalties for their lack 
of progress.

That is why the bipartisan Iraq Study Group made clear that ''if the 
Iraqi government does not make substantial progress toward the 
achievement of milestones on national reconciliation, security, and 
governance, the United States should reduce its political, military, or 
economic support for the Iraqi government.'' That report was issued 5 
months ago. Meanwhile, the President has simply stayed the course he 
has continued to pursue for the past 4 years and, not surprisingly, 
little progress has been achieved in Iraq. The Iraqi Government will 
understand and finally take responsibility only when it is crystal 
clear to them that our combat presence is not indefinite and that 
American combat troops are going to leave. That is the responsible 
change of course we in Congress are seeking. The American people are 
looking to their leaders in Washington at both ends of Pennsylvania 
Avenue to work together to get this policy right.

Two weeks ago, I went to the White House and met with the President, 
along with three other Senators, including two Republicans. I 
appreciated the time he took to honestly discuss our points of 
agreement and disagreement on the war. I told him that now is the time 
to forge cooperation with our Democrats in Congress. But the President 
has chosen instead to veto this bill.

As we move forward on the funding of this war, we in Congress will do 
nothing that threatens the safety of American soldiers in the field. 
But we must continue to fulfill our constitutional duty to exercise 
oversight of American policies in Iraq. A critical part of this 
oversight must be demanding accountability for the way in which funds 
are spent on the reconstruction projects in Iraq.

For the past 4 years, the administration has demanded--and received--
a blank check to spend in Iraq. Now we are seeing the consequences of 
this lack of planning, management, and responsibility.

On Monday, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction 
released a report that details widespread failures in the most basic 
reconstruction projects. The report finds that, in many cases, Iraq's 
infrastructure and utility systems are worse off than they were before 
the war.

On closer inspection, it turns out that even projects which were 
declared ''success stories'' were considerably less than that. In fact, 
seven out of eight of these projects which were called success stories 
were not operating properly due to plumbing and electrical failures, 
improper maintenance, possible looting, and the fact that expensive 
equipment was available but never used.

Prior to the 2003 invasion, Iraq's power system produced 4,500 
megawatts a day. Today, the same system produces 3,832 megawatts a day. 
In Baghdad, the city enjoys an average of 6.5 hours of electricity a 
day. A year ago, Baghdad received 8 hours of electricity a day. Before 
the war, the city received an average of 16 to 24 hours a day.

Congress has provided $4.2 billion for reconstruction of Iraq's power 
system, and the result has been a more than 50 percent decrease in the 
length of time the citizens of Baghdad have access to electricity on 
any given day.

Congress has provided nearly $2 billion to provide clean drinking 
water and repair sewer systems. But according to the World Health 
Organization, 70 percent of Iraqis lack access to clean drinking water.

The Defense Department has estimated that the unemployment rate in 
Iraq is anywhere between 13.6 percent to 60 percent. In a recent 
survey, only 16 percent of Iraqis said their current incomes met their 
basic needs.

So after 4 years, we are facing a security situation that continues 
to deteriorate, an economic situation that continues to stagnate, and a 
reconstruction effort that cannot provide even the most basic services.

My colleagues and I have been asking the difficult questions and 
demanding answers from this administration. The supplemental bill 
demonstrates that Congress is reclaiming its rightful role in setting 
Iraq policy and, more broadly, in our system of government. The 
President's veto only strengthens our resolve.

Madam President, I also wish to speak briefly in support of a few 
other provisions in this bill that I believe respond to critical 
challenges our Nation faces and that the administration has deemed 
unnecessary.

The White House and many of my friends on the other side of the aisle 
have argued that this bill should not contain funding for anything 
other than the current war. If we were sacrificing funding for our 
troops in order to meet domestic priorities, I would agree. But having 
given our troops all they need and continuing to ignore crises at home 
would be irresponsible.

Veterans funding is one of the key parts of this bill. This bill adds 
an increase in veterans funding that was long overdue. In the last 2 
years in my State, veterans would come up to me--particularly from the 
Iraq and Afghanistan wars--and they would tell me about how they had 
difficulty getting treatment. They clearly had mental health issues. I 
didn't know if there was truth to this. I wasn't sure, because of the 
state of their minds, whether this was true. Then I got here, and I 
started looking at the numbers.

In 2005, the Department of Defense estimated that about 24,000 
soldiers coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan would need health care. 
The actual number is four times that amount. Last year, they were 
87,000 soldiers short in their estimate of how many soldiers would need 
help coming back from this war. Now I know why those people were 
wandering around asking for help. It is because they weren't getting 
the help they deserve.

Another critical problem that has been ignored by this 
administration--and one that is particularly important to the people of 
my State--has been the tremendous damage recent national disasters have 
been inflicting on our farmers and ranchers. The supplemental spending 
bill was a combination of a 2-year effort to secure disaster assistance 
for America's farmers. Minnesota farmers have been hit with heavy 
losses for 2 consecutive years--storms and flooding in 2005 and, again, 
drought in 2006. All told, they lost more than $700 million in crop and 
livestock losses.

The supplemental funding would have provided $3.5 billion to 
compensate farmers for a portion of their crop and livestock losses 
over the past 2 years. Our farmers have waited too long for this 
disaster relief. I am deeply disappointed that the President has turned 
his back on the urgent need for their assistance.

The bill we sent to the President of the United States provided the 
resources and support our soldiers need on the battlefield and after 
they return home. A few months ago, I attended a funeral of one of the 
brave men who was killed in the line of duty. The priest stood up, and 
he said to the thousand people in the cathedral: You know, this was a 
good kid. He was 6 feet 2 inches tall, but he was still our child.

When we send our kids to war and they are 6 feet tall, they are still 
our kids and they are standing tall. We need to stand tall.

The traumatic brain injury victims I have seen at the veterans 
hospital in Minnesota, even in their wheelchairs, are standing tall.

Those moms whom I talked to on the phone, as they struggle every day 
just to get out of bed to deal with the loss of their kids who were 
killed in this war, are standing tall.

Now it is time for the President of the United States to stand tall.

Madam President, I yield the floor.