---
---

# IRAQ
## `b0170ce9d9708215b3aba504810a3ce4`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, there have been some in the leadership of 
the majority, a few months ago, who declared the war in Iraq was lost. 
There have been others who have been invested in two significant 
debates we have had over withdrawing precipitously without any 
consideration for the consequences. I have steadfastly supported our 
effort in the global war on terror and, in particular, our effort in 
Iraq, cautious to understand we have had difficulties and we have made 
mistakes. But today I rise to ask those who have, in the past, declared 
defeat or withdrawal to consider the alternative should America win.

Yesterday, in the New York Times, Kenneth Pollack and Michael 
O'Hanlon wrote a significant editorial--neither one an advocate, per 
se, of the war and the surge--that said this is a war we might win. 
News that comes today from the Christian Science Monitor declares a 
precipitous decline in the number of deaths of U.S. soldiers and 
casualties and a tremendous decrease in IEDs.

On Monday night, the people of Iraq in every city, hamlet, and town 
turned out in the streets, and without a single injury, they celebrated 
the victory of the Iraqi soccer team in the Asian soccer games.

We must ask the question: What do we say if, in fact, the tide has 
turned and we are winning? I think there may be some who will try and 
redescribe what victory is, and for that purpose, I wish to describe 
and remind everybody of what we already declared victory would be.

When President Bush asked all of us, and I supported going into Iraq 
to enforce Resolution 1441 of the United Nations with 29 other 
partners, we declared three goals: One, to find the weapons of mass 
destruction and to depose Saddam Hussein; two, to allow the Iraqis the 
chance to hold free elections and write a constitution; and, three, to 
train the Iraqi military so it was capable of defending the people of 
Iraq.

Saddam Hussein is gone, tried by his people and gone from this 
planet. Weapons of mass destruction--no smoking gun was found, but all 
the components were Scud missiles buried in the sand, elements of sarin 
gas in the Euphrates River, some of the biological mobile laboratories 
we thought were there were found, and 400,000 bodies in 8 mass graves 
near Baghdad in Iraq. So that was accomplished.

Second, the Iraqis held three elections, wrote a constitution, and 
now meet in a parliamentary form of government. It may not be 
everything we like, but it is their Government and their progress, and 
America gave them the opportunity to do it.

Now today in Iraq on the ground, Shiites who fought against us have 
joined with us against al-Qaida. Sunnis who fought against us have 
joined us in fighting against al-Qaida. In Ramadi, the streets are 
clear. The people in Baghdad are happy the American soldiers are there 
and afraid American soldiers may leave precipitously.

We are on the cusp of meeting the third goal. Iraqi troops--it is 
being recognized now--Iraqi battalions have, in some cases--not all, in 
some cases--demonstrated the capability of holding the areas Americans 
have secured. America's soldiers are in the same camps with Sunni, 
Shia, and Kurdish soldiers of the Iraqi military.

This war is not over, but two-thirds of the goals we established are 
accomplished, and the third goal is within our reach. When we look in 
the next 6 weeks toward September 15--and I don't know what General 
Petraeus is going to say, but I know what the New York Times is saying, 
I know what the Christian Science Monitor is saying, I know what the 
Georgia soldiers I talk with or get e-mails from on the ground are 
saying, I know what the attitude and morale of the American soldiers is 
and the hopes and aspirations of the American people. Today I ask that 
as we get ready to break, as we wait for the report on September 15, we 
need to be prepared for victory, not invested in defeat.

This has been a tough battle. Some of my friends in Georgia have lost 
their children. They have fought for a dream Americans have fought for 
since this great Republic was founded, and that is the right to self-
determine your future.

I hope the Government of al-Maliki will accomplish some 
reconciliation. I hope they will accomplish a hydrocarbon deal. I hope 
debaathification can work. But I hope we would not declare failure 
when, in fact, we have the opportunity it looks like to succeed. A lot 
of brave young men and women in America have invested their lives in 
the chance to win a victory, not for ourselves but for mankind, for 
civility, for peace, for democracy, and for all the principles upon 
which this country was founded.

So I hope for those who have been invested in the possibility that we 
will fail, that they will get equally invested in the probability or 
possibility that we will succeed and that together, as a Congress, we 
can reward those who fought so valiantly and see to it that one more 
democracy is born in the Middle East of this world.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that an article that appeared 
this morning in the Christian Science Monitor and yesterday's article 
of Michael O'Hanlon and Kenneth Pollack in the New York Times be 
printed in the Record.