# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `b02e054293c4ef7bd367f39459a9a954`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 9 May 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. I am really glad that you touched on that, 
because you read my mind. I am obviously from a State where the 
National Guard and its readiness is imperative. We are approaching June 
1st, which is the beginning of hurricane season. It runs all the way 
through to the end of November. I know from conversations that I have 
had with our Guard leadership in Florida that a good amount of our 
equipment is over in Iraq still. And to make matters worse is that the 
equipment that has come back is in such horrendous shape that it is 
almost unusable.

When I had a meeting in my district office with the head of our 
National Guard, with the commander, this was over a year ago, he 
expressed that concern to me over a year ago. We can't deal with the 
lack of readiness in Kansas but certainly not in a State like Florida 
where we are in the middle of hurricane alley. And we have already had 
the first main storm today, three weeks before the hurricane season 
even begins.

So we are not just talking about the foreign policy impact, the 
perception of our Nation across the world or the impact on our troops. 
There is a domestic impact, a significant detrimental domestic impact 
to our inability to address where we are in this war and when it is 
going to end.

We have got to make sure that the Iraqi government and the Iraqi 
troops are in a position to stand on their own so that we can bring our 
troops home and deal with the domestic needs that we have in this 
country.