# PETE GEREN
## `b037316c604a42368513e1d1431bbcb9`
`Mr. CARPER — 20 July 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I hoped to speak earlier this week when we 
were engaged in debate on the Defense authorization bill. That was a 
night, I am sure our Acting President pro tempore recalls, when folks 
didn't get much sleep around here. A lot of my colleagues decided as 
they spoke they wanted to speak for a long time. As a result, I suspect 
fewer than half of us got to speak, and I had just a few thoughts I 
wanted to share with respect to not just the Defense authorization bill 
but the war in which we find ourselves in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Before I do that, I wish to mention that I think it was last Friday 
at the end of the regular business session--maybe it was Thursday--we 
went through the Executive Calendar. As the Senator from Ohio knows, on 
the Executive Calendar we actually take up nominations submitted by the 
committee that need confirmation by the Senate and we deal with those. 
Oftentimes, if they are not controversial, we deal with them by 
unanimous consent.

One of the nominations that came before us last week, under unanimous 
consent, was that of Pete Geren, who had been nominated to be Secretary 
of the Army. Our Acting President pro tempore spent a number of years 
in the House of Representatives. I was there 10 years. I think he was 
there for about as long, maybe even longer.

One of the finest people I ever served with in the House of 
Representatives was a Democratic Congressman from Texas who actually 
succeeded Jim Wright. Jim Wright stepped down as our Speaker, resigned 
from the Congress, there was a special election, and who ended up 
getting elected but Pete Geren. He became a Congressman for four terms 
and was admired by Democrats and Republicans alike. Before that, he had 
served as an aid to a legendary Senator from Texas, a fellow named 
Lloyd Bentsen, who was also our party's nominee for Vice President.

Pete went to Georgia Tech and the University of Texas. He got a law 
degree from the University of Texas, married well, had three kids, and 
ended up here in the Congress with all of us. He resigned after his 
fourth term and went back to Texas to become a businessperson and to 
practice law. He did that for I think about 5 years, and lo and behold, 
he got a call from a Republican administration to ask him to serve in 
the Department of Defense, where he was a senior aid in the Secretary's 
office, a role he played for I think about 3 or 4 years.

Subsequent to that, Pete Geren was asked to serve in a variety of 
roles. He has been our Acting Secretary of the Air Force, he has been 
the Under Secretary of the Army, the Interim Secretary of the Army, and 
for the last week or so now, he has been the Secretary of the Army.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record his statement 
before the Armed Services Committee, his confirmation hearing 
statement.