# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `b03cc98d252ec6ace16196bb8b61d7d1`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Madam Speaker, I submit the following:

Requesting Member: Congressman C.W. Bill Young.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009

Account: Military Construction, Army National Guard.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Florida Army National Guard.

Address of Requesting Entity: 400 S. Monroe Street, Tallahassee, 
Florida 32399.

Description of Request: Provides $20,907,000 for construction of 
Phase IV of the Regional Training Institute (RTI), Project Number 
120191, located at Camp Blanding, Starke, Florida 32091. It is my 
understanding that the Florida Army National Guard (FLARNG) and Army 
National Guard readiness will be affected if the school cannot educate 
and train soldiers. This final phase will finish construction of the 
remaining 65,000 square feet of billeting, all remaining 
infrastructure, supporting facilities, and all necessary work not 
completed in the prior phases to support and house students attending 
the courses at the training institute.

Requesting Member: Congressman C.W. Bill Young.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: Navy Aircraft Procurement.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Alliant Techsystems (ATK), Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13133 34th Street North, Clearwater FL 
33762.

Description of Request: Provides $3,200,000 for an AAR-47 Missile 
Advance Warning System. The AAR-47 is an extremely effective, low cost, 
missile warning system that provides significant timely warning of 
missile and laser threats to U.S. aircraft. This program will provide 
upgrades for new requirements based on emerging threats in the Global 
War on Terrorism, and it will address long-term performance 
improvements for emerging threats. This system is currently fielded in 
a wide variety of fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft currently being 
used in Iraq and Afghanistan. The lessons learned from years of combat 
operations and subsequent upgrades to this system will enhance the 
ability of aircraft to avoid being shot down.

Account: Army RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Enser Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 5430 70th Avenue North, Pinellas Park 
FL 33781.

Description of Request: Provides $2,300,000 for Advanced Battery 
Technology (ABT). This program is intended to establish a U.S. owned 
thermal battery capability to support advanced weapons systems to meet 
production requirements of next generation weapon systems for strategic 
defense and advanced guided munitions, smart bombs and missiles.

Account: Army RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Eclipse Energy Systems Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2345 Anvil St. North, St. Petersburg FL 
33710.

Description of Request: Provides $3,500,000 for the Advanced 
Conductivity Program (ACP). This program is designed to meet an urgent 
need for manufacture of patented advanced nanotechnology films that 
offer enhancements over current film systems in order to reduce solar 
loading of vehicles, and provide greater multi-functionality in 
transparent armor.

Account: Air Force RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Alaka'i Consulting & Engineering, 
Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 7887 Bryan Dairy Rd, Suite 220, Largo 
FL 33777.

Description of Request: Provides $2,400,000 for Advanced Detection of 
Explosives (ADE). ADE will improve current counter-IED technology and 
detect improvised explosives devices (IEDs) at safe standoff distance.

Account: Army Aircraft Procurement.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Conax Florida Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2801 75th Street North, St. Petersburg 
FL 33710.

Description of Request: Provides $2,400,000 for the Air Warrior--
Joint Service Vacuum Packed Life Raft (AW-JSVPLR) which will provide 
the Army with a small, compact, maintenance free raft for helicopter 
crews in the event of an emergency egress. The Air Warrior Block I 
ensemble specification includes a requirement for an Over-Water-Gear 
Container (OWGC) and vacuum packed, low profile life raft for over-
water missions and for personnel safety/survival in the event of a 
water landing or eject.

Account: Navy ONR RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of South Florida.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4202 East Fowler Avenue, Tampa FL 
33620.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for Autonomous Marine 
Sensors and Networks for Rapid Littoral Assessment. This program 
continues development of advanced underwater sensing systems and 
associated networks that provide rapid assessment of near shore ocean 
environments.

Account: Army Reserve Operation & Maintenance.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: U.S. Army Reserve.

Address of Requesting Entity: St. Petersburg-Clearwater International 
Airport, Clearwater FL 33762.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 to address the immediate 
military need for aviation facilities supporting the United States Army 
Transformation and rapid fielding of the new USAR Air Ambulance Company 
in Clearwater, FL. The USAR Air Ambulance Company is the first in a 
series of unit activations required to implement the Army's directive 
to increase the air ambulance structure in the modular force and 
mitigate the critical medical evacuation shortfall with the OIF/OEF 
rotational requirements.

Account: Air Force RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Honeywell.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13350 U.S. Highway 19 North, Clearwater 
FL 33764-7290.

Description of Request: Provides $2,400,000 for Ballistic Missile 
Technology. This project will help develop and mature the current 
Minuteman III program, the Navy's Trident D-5 Life Extension and Prompt 
Global Strike mission.

Account: Navy/Marine Corps RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: SAIC.

Address of Requesting Entity: Central Avenue, Suite 1370, St. 
Petersburg FL 33701.

Description of Request: Provides $2,400,000 for Battlefield Sensor 
Netting (BSN). BSN will provide the warfighter with unparalleled access 
to mission critical, real-time sensor data. Although tremendous 
progress has been made in the advancement of sensors, there has not 
been a corresponding advancement in data link network technologies that 
can effectively disseminate, display and exploit the tremendous amounts 
of


data generated by modern sensor systems. The Battlefield Sensor Netting 
program bridges the sensor to shooter gap. It would provide a high 
bandwidth data network that combines the advantages of low cost, highly 
capable commercial wireless technologies with the extended range, 
jamming resistance and security provided by phased array antennas, 
military encryption systems and network software.

Account: Navy RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DRS Technologies.

Address of Requesting Entity: 6200 118th Avenue North, Largo FL 
33773.

Description of Request: Provides $4,000,000 for C-Band Radar 
Replacement Development. The C-Band active array radar is capable of 
replacing several in-service ship radars facing obsolescence and 
escalating maintenance costs. This program is intended to be the Air 
Traffic Control/Marshalling radar for amphibious ships. It will replace 
the obsolete and difficult to maintain SPS-67. At half the cost of 
similar radars, CBAAR will provide surface search, air traffic control, 
anti-ship missile defense and navigation.

Account: Air Force RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Honeywell.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13350 U.S. Highway 19 North, Clearwater 
FL 33764-7290.

Description of Request: Provides $2,400,000 for a Chip Scale Atomic 
Clock project. Atomic clocks allow for accurate time reference for 
communications and navigation systems. However, most atomic clocks are 
very heavy (100 lbs or more), too large for handheld or compact 
electronic systems and also too costly. This project will miniaturize 
the atomic clocks for inclusion on the battlefield, help prevent IED 
jammers from interfering with each other and will provide position 
accuracy even in areas where GPS is unavailable or denied.

Account: Army RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Cure Search.

Address of Requesting Entity: 440 E. Huntington Drive, Suite 400 
Arcadia, CA 91006-3776.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for the Children's 
Oncology Group (COG) treats 90 percent of children in the U.S. 
diagnosed with cancer, including hundreds of children of the men and 
women serving in our armed forces. In order to meet the needs of 
military families who have children with cancer, the COG developed the 
Uniformed Services Oncology Consortium (USOC). The USOC is a group of 
military institutions within the COG. Because of the COG network, 
children are able to receive state of the art care in COG institutions 
throughout the country and are often treated at institutions other than 
those on a military base because of the increased availability of care. 
This funding will expand on ongoing research by COG with the Department 
of Defense and improve investigations of the genetic, epigenetic and 
signal transduction pathways.

Account: Navy RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DRS Technologies.

Address of Requesting Entity: 6200 118th Avenue North, Largo FL 
33773.

Description of Request: Provides $3,200,000 for a Common Below Decks 
Architecture. Legacy shipboard surveillance radars operating at various 
frequencies cannot sustain operational effectiveness or realize their 
full performance potential without a marked improvement in below decks 
signal/data processing. This program is intended to provide a common 
architectural approach to unique below decks signal/data processing 
requirements which can benefit 120 radars installed on 74 ships.

Account: Army RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Custom Manufacturing and 
Engineering.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2904 44th Avenue North, St. Petersburg 
FL 33714.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for a Compact MVCC 
Soldier Cooling System. This project will combat heat stress in troops 
by using a unique miniature refrigeration system and cooling garment to 
regulate their body temperature while wearing body armor and other 
protective gear. This project will greatly reduce heat stress and heat 
injury in our troops, especially those serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Account: Defense Wide RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: SRI International.

Address of Requesting Entity: 140 7th Avenue South, St. Petersburg FL 
33701.

Description of Request: Provides $4,500,000 for a Comprehensive 
Maritime Domain Awareness. This funding would continue an ongoing 
successful program to detect, deter or prevent terrorist attacks 
against our ports as well as support a broad group of local and 
regional law enforcement agencies, national and defense assets tasked 
with protecting ports, waterways, and the general maritime commerce. 
The program is developing a comprehensive, networked, waterside and 
landside port and maritime domain awareness system. The initiative 
applies the latest available technology and develops new capabilities 
to fill deficiencies in existing systems. Technology used to support 
the effort takes advantage of the latest advances in micro-systems and 
nano-materials for sensors and communications.


Account: Defense Wide RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Constellation Technology 
Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 7887 Bryan Dairy Road, Suite 100, 
Largo, FL 33777.

Description of Request: Provides $800,000 for Continuation of 
Advanced Materials (Mercuric Iodide) Research for Nuclear Detection, 
Counter-Proliferation and Imaging for Special Operations. This project 
will enable the development of radiation detection equipment with 
significantly improved resolution and detection efficiency which 
provides improved ability to find and identify radiological threats. 
Mercuric Iodide continues to demonstrate great promise in meeting the 
Defense Threat Reduction Agency's mission and that of the various 
intelligence gathering organizations to quantify the impact of CBRNE 
threats.

Account: Defense Wide RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Constellation Technology 
Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 7887 Bryan Dairy Road, Suite 100, 
Largo, FL 33777.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for Continuation of 
Industry Based Research into Biological Agent Identifiers without Wet 
Reagents. This project will greatly reduce consumable costs and 
logistical footprint associated with transport, storage, and use of 
''wet'' reagents in a battlefield environment.

Account: Navy RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Raytheon.

Address of Requesting Entity: 7401 22nd Avenue North Building D, St. 
Petersburg, FL 33710.

Description of Request: Provides $4,800,000 for the Cooperative 
Engagement Capability (CEC). CEC is a high priority, anti-air warfare 
program for the Navy that forms real-time networking among land, ship 
and airborne sensors and sends target information to every CEC-equipped 
platform. It combines all sensor data into a high-resolution, fire-
control quality, composite track air picture. CEC is currently deployed 
on over 95 ships and aircraft, and is a transformational program 
identified in the Joint Forces Command ''Joint Battle Management 
Command and Control road map.''

Account: Defense Wide RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of South Florida.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4202 East Fowler Avenue, Tampa, FL 
33620.

Description of Request: Provides $2,400,000 for Countermeasures to 
Chemical Biological Threats. Prior to the anthrax laden letters of late 
2001, USF and the other 10 institutions which comprise the State 
University System of Florida were working on preparing the United 
States for an unannounced bioterrorist attack. Until then, basic 
microbiologic research had not been widely transferred from the 
laboratory to actual application in the field. It is in this 
environment that the State University System of Florida with the USF 
College of Public Health as the lead and coordinator was awarded 
Congressional project funds.

Account: Defense Wide RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: CTC Tampa Bay Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 7887 Bryan Dairy Road, Suite 220, 
Largo, FL 33777.

Description of Request: Provides $2,400,000 for Combating Terrorism 
Technical Support Office (CTTSO) and STAR-TEC Partnership. Disruptive 
technologies for potential solutions in combating terrorism are 
frequently created by small, fragile start up enterprises with highly 
unique skills. Historically, 80 percent of these emerging technology 
companies fail before their fifth birthday due to an unbalanced focus 
on product development and insufficient attention to fiscal operational 
management. Statistically, 87 percent of small companies mentored by 
professional business incubators succeed. This project seeks to meld 
STAR-TEC's business incubation and acceleration expertise with CTTSO's 
mission to rapidly field new combating terrorism technology solutions 
to ensure the fiscal health of the domestic, small business partners 
selected by CTTSO for technology acceleration.

Account: Defense Wide RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Raytheon.

Address of Requesting Entity: 7401 22nd Avenue North, Building D, St. 
Petersburg, FL 33710.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for CV-22 Helmet Mounted 
Display. This program will replace the current Helmet Mounted Display 
(HMD) and night vision goggles with an integrated, panoramic, HMD/night 
vision daylight readable capability. This will allow our CV-22 aviators 
to more safely operate this new aircraft. Since most


helicopter flights in Iraq and Afghanistan happen during darkness, it 
is vital that our pilots have this new capability for these wars and 
also in training.

Account: Defense Wide Procurement.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: National Forensic Science Technology 
Center.

Address of Requesting Entity: 7881 114th Avenue North, Largo, FL 
33773.

Description of Request: Provides $3,200,000 for Expansion of the 
Mobile Forensic Labs and Technical Assistance and Training Support in 
Largo, Florida. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency developed and 
fielded one mobile forensics laboratory to be used in the U.S. for 
weapons of mass destruction and explosives. FY 2009 funds are needed to 
provide additional systems for international deployment. These state of 
the art modular laboratories provide rapid analysis and exploitation of 
forensic evidence recovered during missions thereby enhancing 
intelligence for ongoing operations as well as evidence.

Account: Air Force RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Honeywell.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13350 U.S. Highway 19 North, 
Clearwater, FL 33764-7290.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for Florida National 
Guard Missile Range Safety Technology (MRST). MRST funding supports the 
114th Range Operations Squadron of the Florida Air National Guard. This 
unit provides Command and Control of local and down-range assets in 
support of Air Force space launch operations as well as providing a 
wartime surge capability for the 45th Operations Group, 45th Space Wing 
at Patrick AFB, Florida. MRST is GPS-based mobile range safety system 
which offers an advanced capability, increased flexibility and cost 
savings to support range operations. For instance, the 114th ROS 
provides a mobile range tracking and command truck that can track and 
if necessary destroy errant ballistic missiles on firing range 
facilities. Providing this mobile capability will reduce costs by 
replacing the need to build permanent fixed sights at each missile 
range.

Account: Army RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of South Florida.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4202 East Fowler Avenue, Tampa, FL 
33620.

Description of Request: Provides $2,500,000 for Health Informatics. 
Health informatics deals with the resources, devices, and methods 
required to optimize the acquisition, storage, retrieval, and use of 
information in health and biomedicine. This project continues research 
and development of new software applications that will be applied to 
advanced health informatics training programs. This will help the DOD 
better manage its healthcare systems and expand post-doctoral training 
of future researchers.

Account: Defense Production Act Purchases.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Enser Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 5430 70th Avenue North, Pinellas Park, 
FL 33781.

Description of Request: Provides $3,000,000 for a High Performance 
Thermal Battery Infrastructure Project. Thermal batteries provide high 
technology power used for current and next generation strategic weapons 
systems as well as USAF tactical missiles. This project's goal is to 
scale up and optimize manufacturing processes to increase the 
production rate while taking advantage of economies of scale to 
facilitate operations as a viable business supporting the DOD.

Account: Army Procurement.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: CONAX Florida Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2801 75th Street North, St. Petersburg, 
FL 33710.

Description of Request: Provides $3,200,000 for a HMMWV Restraint 
System. This program will procure and install upgrade kits for 
restraint systems on Army HMMWV and other tactical vehicle fleets. 
Furthermore, it will incorporate a ''no snag'' design for rapid vehicle 
egress while making it much easier for troops to fasten and unfasten 
safety belts while in full combat protective gear.

Account: Defense Wide RDT&E.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Information Manufacturing LLC.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 11300 Dr. M.L. King Jr. Street, Suite 
315, St. Petersburg FL 33716.

 Description of Request: Provides $2,400,000 for Improved Information 
Transfer for SOCOM. This program will fulfill an urgent need to apply 
real-time knowledge management tools using new and emerging 
technologies that allow for the indexing and correlation of data from 
non-formatted data and divergent sources. This technology supports both 
written and spoken language translation covering multiple Arabic 
language dialects, with the capability to add additional languages over 
time. It will have the capability to apply artificial intelligence to 
automatically select and distribute information based on user needs as 
well as automatically discover un-seen relationships between data 
entries. With these advances, the system will collect, store, and index 
multi-media data, and perform meta-data searches.

 Account: Army RDT&E.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of South Florida.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 4202 East Fowler Avenue, Tampa FL 
33620.

 Description of Request: Provides $800,000 for an Integrated 
Functional Materials Project. This project focuses on the synthesis and 
characterization of new materials and devices, optimizing and 
integrating their functionality, and theoretical modeling for military 
and commercial applications. It will allow troops easy and immediate 
access to superior body armor, power generators, self-medication, 
communication devices, and reconnaissance tools while reducing bulky 
and redundant equipment.

 Account: Air Force RDT&E.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Pinellas County Sheriff Office.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 10750 Ulmerton Road, Largo FL 33778.

 Description of Request: Provides $2,400,000 for a Law Enforcement 
Counterterrorism Test Bed. Civilian law enforcement professionals have 
unique skills in investigations, crime scene forensics and evidence 
gathering that are hard to find in the DOD. The test bed program allows 
DOD to increase an operational unit's ability to conduct 11 
counterinsurgency and counterterrorism missions through interaction and 
training with the law enforcement community.

 Account: Navy RDT&E.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: SAIC.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 360 Central Avenue, Suite 1370, St. 
Petersburg FL 33701.

 Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for a Layered 
Surveillance/Sensing project. This program links advanced Navy and 
Marine Corps sensors, providing a layered network of real-time fire 
control quality data together with on-demand situational awareness 
information distributed across near real-time subnets. This will 
enhance the Marine Corps' ability to perform real-time battle 
surveillance as well as battle damage assessments.

 Account: Navy RDT&E.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of South Florida.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 4202 East Fowler Avenue, Tampa FL 
33620.

 Description of Request: Provides $800,000 for a Lean Management 
System Research Initiative. This program helps military managers and 
leaders improve efficiency in business systems and practices by 
removing non-value activities to improve system performance. Cost 
savings will be realized by further lean systems research and 
implementation by US Air Force business leaders.

 Account: Air Force Procurement.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: SRI.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 140 7th Avenue South, St. Petersburg 
FL 33701.

 Description of Request: Provides $1,000,000 for a MacDill AFB 
Waterside Security System. This project seeks to develop a new 
networked, waterside surveillance and reporting system to provide 
waterside security for MacDill AFB. This will directly assist MacDill 
AFB in executing its anti-terrorism and force protection 
responsibilities in providing security for two vital combatant commands 
and two component commands directly involved in executing the Global 
War On Terrorism (GWOT).

 Account: Army RDT&E.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: SRI International.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 140 7th Avenue South, St. Petersburg 
FL 33701.

 Description of Request: Provides $800,000 for a Micro-systems 
Nanotechnology for Advanced Technology Development project. 
Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) are small integrated devices or 
systems that combine electrical and mechanical components. This will 
continue funding research into new leading-edge microelectromechanical 
system (MEMS), microsensor and nanotechnologies that support warfighter 
needs. This initiative supports research, development and production of 
highly advanced microsystems and advanced materials for harsh 
environments in defense and homeland security applications.

 Account: Navy Operation and Maintenance.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of West Florida.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 11000 University Parkway, Pensacola FL 
32514.

 Description of Request: Provides $800,000 for a Mobile Distance 
Learning for Military Personnel project. This program will provide 
alternative instructional systems, course, and certificates to enable 
deployed service members the same educational opportunities afforded 
while deployed or at home. This will help military personnel continue 
their education while deployed by providing mobile language learning 
initiatives.



 Account: Army RDT&E.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Custom Manufacturing and 
Engineering.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 2904 44th Avenue North, St. Petersburg 
FL 33714.

 Description of Request: Provides $2,400,000 for Modular Universal 
Tactical Operations Center (TOC) Packages for Vehicles and Shelters. 
This project provides enabling design approaches to new ways of 
modularizing mission equipment into small reconfigurable and plug play 
packages that can be cost effectively installed in host Tactical 
Operations Center (TOC) platforms. This project develops, integrates, 
and demonstrates modular, reconfigurable TOC mission and support 
equipment into flexible host platforms so commanders can maintain pace 
with their forces and various platforms. 13

 Account: Defense Wide Procurement.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Raytheon.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 7401 22nd Avenue North Building D, St. 
Petersburg FL 33710.

 Description of Request: Provides $2,000,000 for Multi-Band Multi-
Mission Radio (MBMMR) which are the special operations standard man-
portable tactical UHF frequency satellite communications terminal. It 
is the primary mission radio used by SOCOM units, providing worldwide 
and tactical connectivity. This program will procure an additional 400 
MBMMR radios for U.S. Special Forces.

 Account: Drugs Counter-Drugs And Drug Interdiction.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: St. Petersburg College.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 6021 142nd Avenue North, Largo FL 
33760.

 Description of Request: Provides $3,000,000 for Multi-Jurisdictional 
Counter-Drug Task Force Training (MCTFT). This program is a federally 
funded partnership with the Department of Defense's National Guard 
Bureau, the Florida National Guard and St. Petersburg College. This 
program offers in-depth courses covering aspects of counter-drug law 
enforcement using conventional classroom and scenario models as well as 
distance learning technologies.

 Account: Army RDT&E.

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Moffitt Cancer Center.

 Address of Requesting Entity: 12902 Magnolia Drive Tampa, FL 33612.

 Description of Request: Provides $6,000,000 for The National 
Functional Genomics Center. This new funding would establish a tissue 
bank and related bio-informatics database that will become the national 
standard for storing, retrieving, and updating tumor data, validating 
new molecular signatures, focusing on colon cancer, and promote 
academic, governmental and corporate collaborations.

Account: Navy RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: St. Petersburg College.

Address of Requesting Entity: 6021 142nd Avenue North, Largo FL 
33760.

Description of Request: Provides $3,000,000 for the National 
Terrorism Preparedness Institute Anti-Terrorism/Counter-Terrorism 
Technology Development and Training project. This project provides the 
DOD with technology and training development in the four pillars of 
combating terrorism: intelligence support, counter-terrorism, anti-
terrorism, and consequence management. The National Terrorism 
Preparedness Institute (NPTI) will continue to provide training to the 
DOD, emergency responders, and policy makers. This program will 
continue research and development of technology and training.

Account: Defense Wide RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Revenge Advanced Composites.

Address of Requesting Entity: 12705 Clearwater Drive, Clearwater FL 
33762.

Description of Request: Provides $2,400,000 for a Next Generation 
Scalable Lean Initiative. This program will expand the U.S. defense 
industrial base to manufacture large light weight monolithic structures 
(e.g., light weight, heat resistant flight decks) to satisfy the needs 
of USSOCOM and the U.S. Navy. SOCOM would like to partner with the 
private sector to do applied research and development to support 
scalable engineering and manufacturing capabilities for SOF platforms.

Account: Defense Wide RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Coda Octopus.

Address of Requesting Entity: 100 14th Avenue S, St. Petersburg FL 
33701.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for a Port and Hull 
Security 3D, Real Time Sonar System--Echoscope. This project will allow 
for 3D surveillance of ports and hulls to detect potential seaborne 
threats in the Global War on Terrorism. The Echoscope provides 
significant protection of fixed assets such as bridges, piers, harbors, 
underwater installations as well as vessels.

Account: Air Force RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: General Electric.

Address of Requesting Entity: 14200 Roosevelt Blvd, Clearwater FL 
33762.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for Precision Image 
Tracking and Registration. Acquiring, tracking and striking multiple 
moving targets is an expressly stated operational requirement of U.S. 
Combatant Commanders. This program will continue to develop and 
operationally validate a highly reliable precision locating system with 
the capability to accurately track multiple moving targets of 
opportunity.

Account: Navy RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Honeywell.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13350 U.S. Highway 19 North, Clearwater 
FL 33764.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for Precision Terrain 
Aided Navigation. The PTAN gives the tomahawk missile a redundant 
navigation capability in the event of GPS disruption. This project will 
provide on-missile mission planning and better navigation precision for 
the Tomahawk missile.

Account: Army RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of South Florida.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4202 East Fowler Avenue, Tampa FL 
33620.

Description of Request: Provides $800,000 for Rehabilitation and 
Assistive Technologies to Enhance Life of Individuals with 
Disabilities. This program pursues research and development into 
advanced innovative assistive and rehabilitation technologies relating 
to traumatic battlefield injuries. Its goal is to develop technology 
for military veterans and civilian employees requiring prosthetic, 
orthotic or robotic services. This will improve the quality of life, 
increase functional independence, and community integration for our 
severely injured veterans.

Account: Navy RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of South Florida.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4202 East Fowler Avenue, Tampa FL 
33620.

Description of Request: Provides $800,000 for Reparative Core 
Medicine. This program creates and expands a core laboratory with 
related support devoted to developing regenerative and cellular 
therapeutics to treat devastating diseases and injury from armed 
conflict. This will provide needed medical research relative to combat 
and civilian related injuries and the availability of red blood cell 
transfusions.

Account: Army National Guard.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Florida National Guard.

Address of Requesting Entity: 400 South Monroe St, Tallahassee FL 
32399.

Description of Request: Provides $4,200,000 for a Second Civil 
Support Team for the State of Florida. This program would continue 
funding for a second Civil Support Team in Florida, and provide an 
increased response capability to match the potential terrorist and 
natural disaster threats in the state of Florida.

Account: Defense Wide RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Concurrent Technologies Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 7995 114th Avenue, Largo FL 33773.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for SOF Mission Training 
and Preparation Systems Interoperability. This project will enable 
conventional and special operations warfighters around the world to 
conduct real-time, virtual and interactive pre-combat rehearsals. SOF 
Mission Training and Preparation Systems includes all training, 
planning, preview, and rehearsal systems used by SOF regardless of 
whether they are used during mission execution, conduct of command and 
control, mission rehearsal or training.

Account: Defense Wide Operation & Maintenance.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Information Manufacturing LLC.

Address of Requesting Entity: 11300 Dr. M.L. King Jr. Street, Suite 
315, St. Petersburg FL 33716.

Description of Request: Provides $800,000 for a SOCOM Enterprise Wide 
Data and Knowledge Management System. This program would address an 
urgent need to link SOCOM active legacy date repositories into a modern 
knowledge management system. Its goal is to build a robust and modern 
knowledge management system for SOCOM to better support information 
sharing.

Account: Army RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: General Dynamics.

Address of Requesting Entity: 11399 16th Court North, St. Petersburg 
FL 33716.

Description of Request: Provides $4,500,000 for the Super High 
Accuracy Range Kit (SHARK). This program has the potential to improve 
the accuracy of the 105mm artillery projectiles from the existing 200 
meter circular error probable (CEP) to less than 10 meters. This 
technology incorporates proven GPS technology with a gun hardened 
Control


Actuator System (CAS) that has been successfully demonstrated on the 
155mm Excalibur program.

Account: Defense Wide RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Global Technical Services.

Address of Requesting Entity: 6901 Bryan Dairy Road, Largo FL 33777.

Description of Request: Provides $1,600,000 for an X-Band/W-Band 
Solid State Power Amplifier. This program will design, develop and test 
a solid state power amplifier at X-Band/W-Band to replace the current 
Traveling Wave Tubes (TWT), in order to provide a higher mean time 
before replacement.

Requesting Member: Congressman C.W. Bill Young.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

Account: FEMA.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Pinellas County Board of County 
Commissioners.

Address of Requesting Entity: 315 Court Street, Clearwater FL 33756.

Description of Request: Provides $1,000,000 for infrastructure 
hardening of the Pinellas County facility housing its Emergency Medical 
Services operations, which in times of emergency serves as the 
countywide base-of-operations.
