---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b03f7418e642ff3877386447a201d1a8`
`Ms. ESHOO — 15 May 2008`

---


Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to continued war 
funding for Iraq.

I voted against the war and have never wavered in my opposition to 
the Administration's misguided policies in Iraq.

It has been a long and painful 5 year journey for the people of our 
country since the Administration acted preemptively and unilaterally to 
invade and occupy Iraq.

Military leaders, the best minds in foreign and economic policy, and 
the vast majority of the American people have been resoundingly clear: 
The Administration's war-without-end policy is not a strategy for 
success.

As retired General William Odom, former Director of the National 
Security Agency under President Reagan and member of the National 
Security Council under President Carter stated, ''Getting out of Iraq 
is the pre-condition for creating new strategic options.''

I cannot support war funding without a clear exit strategy in sight. 
It is bad for our troops, our country, and our standing in the world.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of today's second amendment that 
includes a clear path out of Iraq, a plan that my constituents and the 
vast majority of Americans are demanding.

More than 5 years ago the President proclaimed ''Mission 
Accomplished'' in Iraq. Paradoxically, he insists on a permanent U.S. 
presence there. And what exactly has this Administration 
''accomplished'' in Iraq?

More than 4,000 U.S. soldiers have been killed and almost 30,000 
injured; tens of thousands Iraqi civilian deaths; an emboldened Iran 
and new threats from Al Qaeda in the region; $519 billion taxpayer 
dollars spent and a future expenditure of some $3 trillion; a hobbled 
Iraqi government unable to provide clean water, medical care, jobs for 
its people, or pass critical oil sharing legislation; a U.S. military 
on the verge of collapse and unable to press vigorously the critical 
fight in Afghanistan or respond to other crises in the world; and still 
no exit strategy.

With no end game in sight, the Administration and its supporters in 
Congress are complicit in a continuation of a failed policy which they 
insist on extending with a blank check policy to accompany it.

The President owes it to our brave men and women in Iraq and their 
families, he owes it to the American people, and he owes it to the 
citizens of Iraq not to leave this mess for the next President to 
finish.

This bill establishes a clear path out of Iraq. The language requires 
the Administration to begin redeployment 30 days after enactment and 
requires Secretary Gates to submit to Congress within 90 days a report 
detailing plans to reduce and redeploy troops from Iraq. It prohibits 
sending troops to Iraq that are not assessed as ''fully mission 
capable'' of performing their assigned mission, and outlaws the 
presence of a permanent U.S. base there. Additionally, this provision 
requires the Iraqi government to match every U.S. dollar spent for 
training and infrastructure construction and repair. Finally, it 
prohibits the intelligence community from subjecting detainees to 
interrogation techniques not authorized by the U.S. Army Field Manual. 
This will essentially abolish the use of water torture and begin to 
restore America's standing in the world community.

As a member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence it is 
vital that we extend the ban on torture to the Intelligence agencies. 
The President has said he will veto any ban on torture, clearly 
demonstrating his desire to reserve for himself the right to subject 
detainees to these horrendous techniques. Congress has an obligation to 
make it clear that the American people do not believe in torture and 
will not allow it to continue.

This amendment sets a decisive course out of Iraq and begins to shift 
responsibilities to the Iraqi government. I urge my colleagues to heed 
the demands of the American people and support this strategy.

Mr. Speaker, I'm very pleased that the Appropriations Committee 
included two important provisions in today's third amendment. First, it 
includes critical funding for Iraqi Christians and second, it 
modernizes and improves the G.I. bill.

I'm pleased that the amendment contains $10 million for vulnerable 
Iraqi minorities, including Christians. The needs of Assyrians in Iraq 
could not be greater. A report produced by the Department of State on 
U.S. assistance to the Nineveh Plains in Iraq concluded that Christian 
minorities have experienced serious human rights abuses in the Nineveh 
Plains. The report also states that the region has absorbed a 
significant number of Christian internally displaced persons (IDPs) 
moving from the south, placing an economic burden in the area.

They are fleeing because they are being threatened and murdered in 
their home communities. Their priests are being executed, their 
churches burned, and their nuns threatened. In February of this year, 
Archbishop Paulos Rahho was abducted and murdered in Mosul.

While Assyrians only represented 5 percent of the total Iraqi 
population before the war, according to the United Nations today they 
comprise as much as 40 percent of the growing Iraqi refugees who have 
fled for their lives to Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey.

These families desperately need security, housing, jobs, schools and 
the chance to live in a sustainable community where they can openly 
practice their faith. This funding is essential to their survival.

Also included in this amendment is a modernization of the G.I. bill. 
The G.I. bill has been heralded as one of the most successful 
government programs in the history of our Nation. It gave millions of 
G.I.s the chance to go to college, many of whom were the first to 
receive a college education in their families. But the G.I. bill is 
over 54 years old and has not kept up with rising tuition costs.

According to a recent Department of Veterans Affairs (V.A.) survey, 
18 percent of the veterans recently back from tours of duty are 
unemployed. Of those employed since leaving the military, 25 percent 
earn less than $21,840 a year. The survey also demonstrated that only 
48.4 percent of the respondents took advantage of the G.I. bill and 
concluded that receiving the benefits of the current G.I. bill was not 
a strong predictor of successful employment outcomes.

This survey clearly demonstrates the need for this new G.I. bill. The 
amendment provides veterans with a maximum educational benefit equal to 
the highest tuition rate of a public college or university in their 
State, as well as a monthly stipend for housing. It also establishes a 
new program in which private educational institutions would make 
financial contributions toward veterans' tuition, and the federal 
government would match those contributions.

When our veterans return from the battlefield, they should have every 
opportunity to enter the classroom and ultimately the civilian 
workforce. Our Nation needs these brave men and women to contribute to 
the growth and health of our economy and this new G.I. bill 
accomplishes this.

From development funding for Iraqi Christians to the creation of a 
new G.I. bill, this amendment addresses specific urgent needs for our 
Nation and world. The amendment is well crafted and I urge my 
colleagues to support its passage.