---
---

# None
## `b045555dbd3f5ae4d9d5525ffb0cd198`
`Mr. STEVENS — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I do not support the Levin amendment. I 
rise in strong support of the amendment offered by our leader, Senator 
McConnell, and the Senator from Connecticut, Mr. Lieberman. That 
amendment will provide the Department of Defense and our deployed 
military personnel the resources they need to continue the mission they 
have been assigned. It will also eliminate the distinction proposed by 
the House to fund only those troops that are assigned to Afghanistan. 
In my view, it is unconscionable for Congress to send the message to 
our troops that they will only get what they need if they are lucky 
enough to be assigned to fight the war in Afghanistan. What if they 
were assigned to Iraq? Should they go without funds?

I believe it is our duty as Senators to support the troops in the 
field and provide them all the resources they need to complete the 
mission they have been assigned. Unlike us, they do not get to choose 
which battle they fight. They go where duty calls, without hesitation.

Senator Inouye and I were in Iraq during the Thanksgiving recess, and 
I can tell the Senate that the troops are watching what is going on 
right here. They will get the message over there, and if the House 
amendment is approved, it will be a real blow to the morale of our 
forces. This particularly concerns me, that some of my colleagues would 
consider cutting off funds in Iraq at a time when we are starting to 
see real progress and reconciliation.

I listened to the comments made by the Senator from Arizona, Mr. 
McCain. I am really pleased to see his strong approval of the funding 
of our troops that are deployed in harm's way.

In March, Ambassador Crocker and General Petraeus will be testifying 
before Congress to give us their assessment of the situation in Iraq. 
We know General Petraeus's plans are working. To withhold funding now 
would only invite defeat and step back from the progress that has been 
hard fought and won over the last few months.

I have urged Congress for quite some time to approve this funding and 
allow progress to continue until we hear from our leaders on the ground 
in Iraq. The funds that are sent--the President sent us the request for 
these funds 10 months ago. For the past 3 years, the Committee on 
Appropriations has included bridge funding as part of the annual 
appropriations bill to cover the cost of war, until a supplemental bill 
was passed in the following year. This amendment would continue what 
Congress has done in prior years by providing funds to cover the cost 
of continued operations, including special pay and subsistence to our 
troops, fuel, transportation, supplies, and equipment reset and 
procurement.

The amendment is intended to cover half-year costs for keeping troops 
in the field. It also provides resources to provide critical force 
protection equipment, including body armor, helmets, armor plate for 
vehicles, and aircraft survivability equipment.

There is also other equipment procurement funding to reset our forces 
returning from theater. This includes buying down shortfalls for the 
National Guard and Reserve units. Specifically, the McConnell-Lieberman 
amendment would provide $1.1 billion military pay and benefits to 
include support for our wounded warriors and death gratuities; $50.2 
billion for operation and maintenance activities to include fuel, spare 
parts, transportation, and equipment maintenance, including $500 
million for the commander's Emergency Response Program, $1.4 billion 
for body armor and personal protection equipment, and $9 billion for 
depot maintenance funding to reset equipment and maintain force 
readiness.


This amendment also provides funds to continue our efforts to train 
and equip the Iraqi and Afghan security forces. That funding is 
critical so that the elected governments in those countries can 
effectively provide for their own security and our troops can come 
home.

There is also $4.3 billion for the Joint Improvised Explosive Devise 
Defeat Fund which will help our troops detect and defeat the No. 1 
killer of our troops in Iraq--the IEDs, the improvised explosive 
devices we have heard so much about.

Mr. President, $6.1 billion is included for the procurement of 
equipment, ammunition, vehicles, missiles and aircraft, including $946 
million for Army aircraft, $3.46 billion for Army vehicles and 
equipment, $703 million for Marine Corps vehicles and equipment, and 
$266 million for special operations forces equipment.

The amendment also includes $1 billion for the Defense Working 
Capital Fund, which includes $587 million to reset prepositioned stocks 
stationed around the world, which greatly enhances our Nation's ability 
to respond to contingencies, and we have forces in 141 different--I ask 
for 1 more minute.