---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `b04ed9c40e571e0d9330862a7f68013e`
`Mr. LEVIN — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, first of all, let me say I very much join 
Senator McCain's comment about General McChrystal. I spoke about his 
heroics yesterday, his integrity yesterday at the Armed Services 
Committee in my statement, and I reiterate them today. General 
McChrystal is someone who has the deep respect of all who know him. And 
while fate took a strange bounce in his life, he has the strength and 
integrity of character that he is going to be able to deal with it very 
well.

We all want success in Afghanistan, and setting a date, as the 
President has done and General Petraeus supports, to begin reductions 
of our forces is critical to that success, because it is the Afghans 
who must succeed, with our support. It is the Afghan Army that must 
grow and get stronger because it is that way where the people will be 
supportive of this effort, where they will take the risks if they know 
the Afghan Army is large. They know already it is on their side. They 
will take the risks to tell that army where the bad guys are, where the 
insurgents are, and not be afraid.

General Petraeus was asked yesterday whether he backs the President's 
approach with respect to a deadline, and his answer was clear: ''Not 
only did I say that I supported it, I said that I agree with it.''

President Obama has made a decision. General Petraeus is very much a 
part of that decision. He agrees with that decision that we need to 
begin reductions in July of 2011 of our troops as a way of sending a 
powerful message to the Afghan leadership about their responsibility to 
provide security for their own country. And when they do take the 
lead--whether it is in operations in Kandahar or elsewhere--that is the 
way the people will rally behind the government, will rally against the 
hated Taliban.

The Taliban has no love among the people of Afghanistan. The Afghan 
Army does, and it is that army which must take the lead for the sake of 
success in Afghanistan. That is what setting this date is all about. 
That is why General Petraeus supports setting that date, not for 
withdrawal of all of our troops but for the beginning of reductions of 
our troops, as that powerful signal about what is at stake here and 
what the Government of Afghanistan must do to achieve success for them 
and for us.

A few final words about the July 2011 date set by the President for 
the beginning of reductions in our combat presence in Afghanistan. That 
decision also made clear that the pace of those reductions would be 
dependent on circumstances at the time, and that the United States 
would continue a strong strategic commitment to Afghanistan.

That July 2011 date imparts a necessary sense of urgency to Afghan 
leaders about the need to take on principal responsibility for their 
country's security. We saw in Iraq the importance of setting dates as a 
way of spurring action. President Bush in November 2008 decided to move 
all U.S. forces out of Iraqi cities and towns by June 2009 and to 
withdraw all U.S. forces from Iraq by the end of December 2011. That 
decision helped focus the Iraqi Government and military on the need to 
take principal responsibility for the security of their country. The 
Afghans' success, and ours, depends on that happening in Afghanistan as 
well.

We have already seen a positive effect of setting the July 2011 date 
to begin reductions of our troops. Lieutenant General Caldwell, who 
commands our training efforts in Afghanistan, told us that when 
President Obama announced the date, the Afghan leadership made a 
greater effort to reach out to the local leaders and elders, resulting 
in a surge in recruits for the Afghan army.

General Petraeus has said he agrees with the President's policy 
setting that July 2011 date, and told me that if he ceases to agree he 
will so advise his Commander in Chief, which he, of course, has a 
responsibility to do as a military commander.

Mr. President, I yield back the remainder of my time.