# None
## `b05c38918c746adf84db75d9ab43f2b0`
`Mr. BROUN of Georgia â€” 10 December 2009`

---


Mr. BROUN of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend the 
soldiers, civilians, and military families stationed at Fort Gordon for 
their service and dedication to the United States, and to honor the 
lineage of Fort Gordon as an indispensable communications installation 
and training center in our Nation's history.

Fort Gordon was originally conceived as Camp Gordon on October 18, 
1941, as an answer to America's fight in WWII Europe. Camp Gordon was 
home to three Army Divisions--the 4th Infantry Division, the 26th 
Infantry Division, and the 10th Armor Division. All served with 
distinction in the liberation of Europe from the Nazi tyranny. It was 
not until March 21, 1956, that Camp Gordon was given permanent status 
and renamed Fort Gordon.

Since that time, Fort Gordon's soldiers and civilians have 
continuously served with distinction in Vietnam, Operations Desert 
Shield and Desert Storm, and in current operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. All the while, the military family members were providing 
support while dealing with the hardship of long and often times 
multiple deployment separations.

In June 1986, the United States Army Signal Regiment was established 
and Fort Gordon was designated as the home base for the regiment. Fort 
Gordon is home not only to the Army's premier signal training center, 
but it is also home to deploying active and reserve Army units. The 
soldiers in these units take the lessons learned from the battlefield 
in order to incorporate the lessons into the signal training curriculum 
and in research and development. This functional and technical analysis 
has lead to the development of mobile subscriber equipment, the Army's 
communication architecture and information mission area, which include 
integration of automation, communications, and visual information.

Fort Gordon's role as a communications leader was not achieved 
through individuality but through a combined effort of the Army and the 
citizens of Augusta who together have fostered a strong community. 
Margret Mead said it best when referring to the strength of a 
community, ''never doubt that a small, group of thoughtful, committed 
citizens can change the world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever 
has.'' These committed Augusta citizens were and are an essential part 
of Fort Gordon's history that has led to a safer and secure America.
