---
---

# U.S. RELATIONS WITH ISRAEL
## `b05ddea283369768b034c79c791517e4`
`Mr. BOREN — 19 March 2010`

---


Mr. BOREN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to insert my views into the 
Record regarding the importance of the relationship between the United 
States and Israel.

Vice President Biden's visit last week to Israel and subsequent 
public statements made by U.S. and Israeli officials have given rise to 
a storm of speculation about the strength and durability of the 
alliance between our two nations.

The Obama administration in recent days has expressed frustration 
over an announcement made by the Israeli government during the Vice 
President's visit that it intends to build 1,600 additional housing 
units in East Jerusalem.

The administration contends such plans place in jeopardy its 
initiative to resume peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians, and 
has publically rebuked Israel for last week's announcement, an act 
seldom seen from U.S. Government officials.

These events deeply concern me, and I find the administration's 
rhetoric troubling. Now is the time for greater solidarity between the 
United States and Israel, not less.

We cannot forget that the United States faces considerable challenges 
in the Middle


East. Iran is quickly advancing its nuclear and ballistic missile 
capabilities to threaten the United States and our allies in the Middle 
East and Europe. Our significant political and military gains in Iraq 
and Afghanistan remain fragile and reversible. Moreover, the Middle 
East remains the epicenter of violent extremism, serving as a base for 
terrorist groups who continue to plan and launch attacks against 
America.

The United States cannot confront these threats alone. Israel has 
been our most critical partner in the Middle East, helping us to 
protect our national security. The ability of the United States to 
defeat our adversaries depends on Israeli support.

Bringing my remarks to conclusion, the relationship between the 
United States and Israel rests firmly upon the foundation of more than 
half a century of history. It is grounded in mutual respect, supported 
by shared values, and guided by our common long-term interests. 
Therefore, our alliance remains strong and, despite what some may 
speculate, it will not succumb to the shifting politics of the day or 
to petty disagreements.

Madam Speaker, for these reasons I call upon the President, members 
of his administration, and my fellow members of Congress, to remain 
steadfast in their unwavering commitment to the relationship between 
the United States and Israel.
