---
---

# TAX BURDEN IN AMERICA
## `b068ed9c13c530928dce0ddb42edad06`
`Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey. I appreciate that and thank the gentleman 
from Texas for your work on this issue.

I also commend the gentleman from Pennsylvania because I know he has 
been championing this issue and cause for a number of years. And I 
believe during his remarks he mentioned the piece of legislation he has 
had in this House for some time as well.

In his usual, understated way, the gentleman from Pennsylvania ended 
his remarks by saying this will begin a philosophical discussion, and 
the gentleman from Texas picked up on that as well. Indeed it is a 
great philosophical discussion to point out the disparity between the 
two parties. The Democrat Party, which is now in control of the House 
and the Senate, we can see from their actions during the past 11 months 
that they have been in control that families should be compelled to 
keep their house in order but Congress does not have to be forced to 
live within its means. They do that every time they come to the floor 
with another tax increase, which we will see shortly when their AMT 
bill comes, that Congress does not have to live within their means. The 
focus should be, instead, on the family budget, as we have always said 
on this floor in the past.

Before I came to the floor, I want to do a little aside, I was 
reading this current issue of Human Events, the week of November 5. It 
is a front-page story by Andrew Boylan: ''Rangel tax reform riddled 
with tax hikes.'' He has an expression in here, and I think it points 
out what Charlie Rangel and the Democrat majority are trying to do in 
the House. It says, ''Chairman Rangel's plan isn't just robbing Peter 
to pay Paul; it is robbing Peter and Paul while convincing both of them 
that the other guy is the one paying the higher taxes.'' That really 
puts it in a nutshell.

What you will hear from the other side of the aisle when they begin 
to explain this is no, we are just trying to set things straight. We 
are just trying to rectify a problem from the old AMT. But at the same 
time they really, in reality, are shifting it. No, they are robbing 
from all of us, the entire American population, and they will be trying 
to convince all of us through the spin and the rhetoric that we hear 
that the other guy is paying it. That is not the case at all.

You know, the word ''AMT,'' for those who don't follow this issue 
very closely, has a good name, alternative minimum tax. At first blush 
that sounds like something that you would want to pay instead of what 
you are currently paying.

''Alternative'' makes it sound like it is voluntary. ''Minimum''; I, 
too, would like to pay the minimum amount of taxes. But those words are 
deceiving just as the Democrat plan is deceiving. It is not alternative 
in the sense that it is voluntary. It is mandatory. You are compelled 
to pay the higher of the tax. And it is not minimum in any sense of the 
word. It is a maximum tax. That will be exactly what we get when the 
Democrats give us Charlie Rangel's bill of an alternative minimum tax 
fix.

Now the gentleman from Pennsylvania talked about a piece of 
legislation that he has worked on, which I have cosponsored as well, 
that tries to address this by simply repealing the entire AMT. It 
repeals the entire alternative minimum tax so that citizens of this 
country will not have to pay that higher tax.



I've cosponsored that legislation, and I support it, but let me just 
digress for 30 seconds here and just say that I also have sponsored a 
piece of legislation to address the AMT in this session of Congress. It 
does not go so far as to totally repeal the bill, but what it does is 
to try to do, let's say, a compromise measure, if you will, if we can't 
get that far because the other side of the aisle will not go so far as 
to giving American taxpayers that total relief. And what it does is it 
meets it halfway.

From my perspective, it gets halfway and says let's put a COLA in 
that bill, a cost of living adjustment into it, so that the AMT could 
do what it was actually intended to do several decades ago, target 
those very, very, very, very few. Back then, there were was only 150 of 
those taxpayers out of 200 million people, those taxpayers who were not 
paying any taxes, and put a COLA into it so that it would be just 
adjusted just as the rest of the tax breaks. So when your income goes 
up each year due to inflation and what have you, you would not find 
yourself falling into it.

So if the Democrats can't go so far as some of us, as Congressman 
English and others of us believe that we would like to see here, and 
that is to totally repeal, take away that burden on all American 
taxpayers, I would hope that they would see instead some sense to 
reaching halfway at the very least and saying let's make sure that it 
does not swallow up so many of the individuals in this country. If we 
don't do anything shortly, 22 million Americans will see their taxes go 
up dramatically.

Now, I come to the floor, as the gentleman from Texas says, from the 
great State of New Jersey, and I speak with some experience as to the 
fact that sometimes the other side of the aisle, both on a Federal 
level and on a State level, will try to deceive us on some of these 
things as to who they're really going after.

Here, if you read and listen to the rhetoric from the Democrats on 
this issue, they're saying, well, we're just trying to go after the 
rich people in this country. In New Jersey, a few years ago, there was 
Governor McGreevey at the time. They said the same thing. They said 
we're going to go with a millionaire's tax, and of course, the average 
citizen said, hey, that's fine, they're not coming after me; they're 
going after the other guy; in effect robbing Peter to pay Paul and 
convince them it's the other taxpayer that's going to pay the bill.

But you know what happened there. That millionaire's tax in New 
Jersey started at $1 million, and then suddenly it went down to 
$900,000, then $800,000, $700,000, and it kept on going down lower and 
lower and lower until eventually it covered just about everybody. 
Anybody who had a household where the husband and wife worked, you had 
a husband maybe a policeman and the wife might be a school teacher or a 
nurse or something like that, they became covered by that so-called 
millionaire tax in New Jersey.

It was the so-called tax that started out as a rifle shot at just a 
select few and instead turned into a shotgun approach and encompassed 
everyone. Same thing that's happening right here with the AMT so-called 
relief that we're getting from the Democrats, so-called going after the 
millionaires; but it's going to cover all of us with higher taxes.

When I say higher taxes, one of the things I say on the floor just 
about every time I come to the floor, I say this. We are now in 
November, the eleventh month of the year, which means we're on the 
eleventh of Democrat control of this House, and we should always ask 
ourselves, what has 11 months of control by the Democrats wrought for 
this House and the country.

It has initially brought us the largest tax increase in U.S. history. 
It has brought us the creation of slush funds in the various 
appropriation and budget bills that they gave us at the beginning of 
the year, and it has gotten rid of any hint of transparency in the 
earmark rules of this House, some things that they campaigned on.

The issue of tax increases continues here tonight, and if I have just 
another minute, they gave us the largest tax


increase initially when they gave us the budget at the very beginning 
of the year. Since that time, in just about every piece of major 
legislation that the Democrats have brought before this House, you have 
seen a tax increase. In bills that you would never even imagine would 
have tax increases, they have it. And let me just take a moment just to 
run through a list, and I don't have a chart to put up behind me so 
I'll have to give it to you this way.

The CLEAN Energy Act, we're all in favor of clean energy, I suppose, 
but it includes a $7.7 billion tax increase over 10 years. The Small 
Business and Work Opportunity Tax Act, $1.38 billion. Katrina Housing 
Tax Relief, tax relief, it sounds as though they're giving us tax 
relief. No, it's raising taxes by $241 million. Taxpayer Protection 
Act, $23 million increase. To amend the Internal Revenue Code, well, we 
all want to do that, but who knows. When they did it, they raised taxes 
by $14 million.

U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery and Iraq 
Accountability Appropriations Act. Gosh, by the name of that, they're 
all great things, U.S. troop readiness, Katrina recovery, but you know 
what, they tucked in a tax increase there. How much? $4.4 billion. 
Second bill, same name, H.R. 2206, $4.8 billion.

The Andean Trade Preferences Act, $105 million tax increase. Farm 
Nutrition and Bioenergy Act, $7.4 billion Democrat tax increase. The 
Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act, get this one, $54.8 
billion Democrat tax increase.

Just three more. The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Act, 
what does that have to do with taxes? Well, for the Democrats, it's $15 
billion in tax increases.

The Airport and Airway Trust Fund Financing Act, trying to make our 
airports better. Well, how do they do it? They do it by raising our 
taxes by $1.8 billion.

And, finally, the Mortgage Forgiveness Debt Relief Act. Who could be 
against mortgage forgiveness and debt relief? Well, the debt is going 
to be on our shoulders because they're raising taxes by $2.005 billion.

You add up that whole list, and this is even before we come to the 
bill that's before us tomorrow, that comes to $106 billion tax increase 
over 10 years, on top of the largest tax increase as I mentioned in the 
budget at the beginning of the year.

Let me just conclude. I see our time is coming down. These numbers 
are for me, and I think most Americans, hard to put your arms around 
when you are talking about such high tax increases. The bottom line, 
though, is put them in large absolute numbers when you're talking about 
$106 billion or the $70 billion in permanent tax increases as the 
gentleman talked about, or as a Member from the other side of the aisle 
admitted, 130 percent tax increase, whether it's percentages or 
absolute numbers, put them down in day-to-day numbers. It's around 
$2,400 on the largest tax increase to the average American household 
that you will be seeing.

The question we have to ask is the one I started with and the one 
that the gentleman from Pennsylvania ended with. It's a philosophical 
discussion. Are we going to put the focus on the American budget or the 
family budget? I suggest, and this side of the aisle suggests, the 
focus should be on the American family's budget to allow the American 
taxpayer to keep as much of his money as possible and not see another 
tax increase on that family budget.