# COMMENDING THE 1ST BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM/34TH INFANTRY DIVISION OF THE  MINNESOTA NATIONAL GUARD
## `b06b2bb8e4e721b0579f8a3a5203244b`
`Mrs. BACHMANN — 1 October 2007`

---


Mrs. BACHMANN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in proud support of this 
legislation which commends Minnesota's First Brigade Combat Team of the 
34th Infantry Division for their completion of the longest continuous 
deployment of any United States military unit during Operation Iraqi 
Freedom.

This extraordinary group of men and women, also known as the Red 
Bulls, is comprised of about 3,700 dedicated Minnesotans and some 1,300 
more soldiers from other Midwestern States. Recently, more than 1,000 
of our courageous Red Bulls returned home from a 22-month deployment to 
Iraq.

During their time in the Middle East, the First Brigade Combat Team 
protected lives and helped to preserve the blessings of liberty here at 
home. They discovered 462 improvised explosive devices, IEDs, before 
they were able to wreak havoc on the innocent. By finding these IEDs 
prior to detonation, the First Brigade Combat Team surely saved the 
lives of countless fellow soldiers and Iraqi citizens. They also 
captured over 400 suspected insurgents and completed 137 reconstruction 
projects. In addition, the First Brigade Combat Team successfully 
processed over 1.5 million vehicles and 400,000 Iraqis into entry 
control points without any insurgent penetrations.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to honor the First Brigade Combat Team, 
whose bravery and commitment to serving our country is as apparent 
today as it has been in wars long past. These soldiers have returned 
with an outstanding record of achievement and have earned hundreds of 
awards including: one Silver Star, 151 Bronze Stars, 32 Purple Hearts, 
771 Army Commendation Medals, 136 Combat Infantry Badges, 302 Combat 
Action Badges and 14 Combat Medical Badges.

The important measure before us today recognizes the service of our 
Red Bull soldiers, and reminds us of the price of our freedom, and 
those who have freely chosen to honor it.

To our Red Bulls, and all of the men and women that defend this 
Nation, my colleagues and I continue to stand in awe of you.

Thank you, and may God bless you and your families.