---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `b06df09a4e86a6c36884772311ac5ef4`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I want to associate my remarks with my ranking member, 
Mr. Lewis.

Following the time-honored tradition of our Defense Appropriations 
Subcommittee, Chairman Dicks and Mr. Young have put together, in a 
collegial manner, a solid product. The funding for defense operations 
and maintenance, for the Afghan and Iraq Security Forces, for Army base 
operations, M-RAPs, National Guard and Reserve equipment, and the other 
portions of the defense and of the military construction portion of the 
bill are worthy of our support.

If that's where the story ended, we would be fine, but as Ronald 
Reagan famously said, ''There they go again.''

This legislation contains over $72 billion in discretionary and 
mandatory spending. Less than half of that total, $35 billion, is 
related to the ongoing fight against the Taliban and al Qaeda in 
Afghanistan or our withdrawal from Iraq and the State Department 
funding related to the war on terror. The rest is earmarked for 
nondefense programs, new bailouts, and pet projects to benefit the 
majority's political allies.

I share the views of Mr. Lewis on the extraneous spending in this 
bill: the $10 billion State bailout fund, the $5 billion Pell Grant 
infusion, the $500 million to ''forward-fund'' accounts in the fiscal 
year 2011 appropriations bills, thereby freeing up money to spend on 
other activities in fiscal year 2011, the $245 million to allow the IRS 
to ramp up its enforcement activities.

My colleagues in the majority just don't get it. This is Washington 
''business as usual'' as this Congress uses funding for our deployed 
warfighters, many of them in harm's way as we speak, to provide for 
more unnecessary social spending.

My colleagues, I urge the adoption of a clean supplemental 
appropriation as quickly as possible so our men and women in uniform 
can continue to do their important work on our behalf.