---
---

# RECOGNIZING CLOSE U.S.-U.K. RELATIONSHIP
## `b07f378c898e342ee81decd9cb5185c2`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 12 May 2010`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

I am so pleased to rise in enthusiastic support of this important 
resolution, authored by my Florida colleague, the gentleman, 
Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart. This resolution recognizes the 
unsurpassed friendship and abiding special relationship between the 
United States and the United Kingdom.

Throughout the history of our alliance and our friendship, we have 
stood by each other with a level of military, economic and diplomatic 
commitment and coordination of such an unparalleled extent that it has 
even been referred to as the ''special relationship.'' The United 
Kingdom has been a true friend of the United States even to the 
extraordinary measures of sharing and even jointly operating military 
bases overseas and being one of the few NATO allies in Afghanistan 
without restrictions on its troops' ability to engage in combat 
operations.

The United Kingdom has also been a significant partner in efforts to 
prevent an Iranian nuclear weapons capability and has led efforts to 
convince the EU to adopt strong sanctions against the Iranian regime. 
Further, our economic bilateral relationship is without comparison as 
our nations' common sense of entrepreneurship and strong belief in free 
market principles has fostered extraordinary levels of trade and 
resulted in each country being the largest investor in the other's 
economy.

In recent years, there has been some debate about the state of this 
special relationship and whether it is as solid today as it was in the 
days of President Franklin Roosevelt and Prime Minister Winston 
Churchill or in the days of President Ronald Reagan and Prime Minister 
Margaret Thatcher. I am, indeed, concerned that some members in each of 
the three major British political parties have asserted a need to 
reevaluate our special relationship, siting their perception that the 
United States has already begun to back away from its close 
relationship toward the United Kingdom.

I believe, however, Mr. Speaker, that the special nature of our 
relationship is not solely dependent upon the level of camaraderie 
between our political leaders at any given time. It is, instead, based 
on the bedrock ideals of democracy, of economic liberty, and respect 
for the rule of law that we both share.

As with all close allies, it is incumbent upon both parties to 
continually work to improve and to strengthen the relationship, but I 
think that there is something of substance in our two countries' 
relationship, something based on those shared principles and cultural 
connections that endures.

With passage of this resolution, Mr. Speaker, the House of 
Representatives will send a strong message of our commitment to that 
special relationship with our closest ally across the Atlantic, the 
United Kingdom. I, therefore, urge my colleagues to join me in 
supporting this important resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I am now very pleased to yield such time as he may 
consume to my good friend, the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Lincoln 
Diaz-Balart), the ranking member on the Rules Subcommittee on 
Legislative and Budget Process and the author of the resolution before 
us.