---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `b08f55100fa513c1b268f44799e384c7`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today to honor Army SPC 
Eric M. Holke, of Riverside, CA.

Specialist Holke's father describes him as an avid outdoorsman, a 
committed student of history, and someone with a keen eye for the arts. 
From a young age, Specialist Holke pursued his hobbies with zeal. His 
passion for the outdoors was matched only by his passion for film, 
which he discovered after he took a class on sports photography at Rim 
of the World High School in Lake Arrowhead, CA, where he was a 
graduate. After high school, he continued his studies in film and 
photography, and also worked at radio and television stations at San 
Bernadino Valley College.

Ready for a new challenge, Specialist Holke left San Bernadino Valley 
College to join the California Conservation Corps, where he spent the 
next 2 years backpacking through the wilderness of California. When he 
returned from this service, he became active in Renaissance fairs, 
where his specialty was demonstrating how the German military lived in 
the 1400s through 1600s, according to Pat Long, a cousin and producer 
of Renaissance fairs. Those who watched his performances remembered 
them for his passion and his enthusiasm.

Specialist Holke enlisted in the Army in 2000 in order to learn new 
skills as well as to save money to return to school. He served with the 
82nd Airborne, like one of his grandfathers, a much-decorated World War 
II veteran. He went to Afghanistan, then to Iraq before being honorably 
discharged from the Army in 2005. He returned to Riverside, CA, where 
he became active again with the San Bernadino Valley College, 
performing re-enactments as well as studying film and business there. 
He also enlisted in the California National Guard at this time.

Specialist Holke and his wife Cassidhe were married in January of 
2007. He was eager to earn his degree in business so he could start a 
new life in the film industry with his wife and their 16-year-old son, 
Steven.

In June of 2007, Specialist Holke began serving his second tour of 
duty in Iraq. He was serving with the 1st Battalion, 160th Infantry, 
California Army National Guard stationed in Kuwait. On July 15, 2007, 
Specialist Holke passed away in a noncombat-related incident in Talil. 
At his funeral, he was posthumously awarded five medals, including the 
Bronze Star. He was 31 years old.

In addition to his wife Cassidhe and son Steven, both of Riverside, 
CA, he is survived by his mother Monika Holke of Lincoln, NE, and 
father Jack Holke, of Las Vegas, NV. Today, I join all Americans in 
mourning the loss of a talented soldier, an active outdoorsman, and a 
loving husband, father, and son. He made the ultimate sacrifice through 
his service to our country. He will be remembered for his hunger for 
adventure. His memory will be honored by future generations of soldiers 
and civilians alike.






Explosive Ordinance Disposalman 1st Class Jeffrey Chaney


Mr. President, I also rise today to honor Navy Explosive Ordinance 
Disposalman First Class Jeffrey Chaney of Omaha.

Petty Officer Chaney was a 1990 graduate from Bellevue West High 
School. In 1993, he joined the Navy. His first ambition was to be a 
Navy SEAL; however, due to eyesight problems, he worked instead as a 
recruiter for the Navy. His success as a recruiter was a direct result 
of his enthusiasm and his dedication to his work, evidenced also by his 
brother Jim, whom he helped recruit. His sister April describes 
commitment to his work: ''[He] loved the Navy; he just loved everything 
about his job. He was always talking about it,'' she said.

Before his tour in Iraq, Chaney served in the Secret Service, where 
he had the opportunity to meet President George H.W. Bush, as well as 
Mikhail Gorbachev while he was on security detail at the President's 
80th birthday party. His sister recalls that while that was a momentous 
occasion in his life, his proudest moment was the birth of his daughter 
Brianna, now 14.

Chaney was assigned to Explosive Ordinance Disposal Mobile Unit 11, 
stationed in Whidbey Island, WA. On July 17, 2007, after serving in 
Iraq for about 2 months, ED01 Chaney passed away during combat 
operations in Salahuddin Province. He was 35 years old.

In addition to his brother and sister, he is survived by his daughter 
Brianna Chaney, 14, of Omaha; his mother Connie Chaney also of Omaha, 
his father Jim Eckert of Oakland, IA and another brother Jim Eckert, 
also of Oakland. Today, I join all Americans in mourning the loss of a 
truly great sailor, proud father, and loving son. His service and his 
sacrifice will be remembered for generations to come.













 Sergeant Jacob Schmuecker


Mr. President, I rise today to honor Nebraska Army National Guard 
Sergeant Jacob Schmuecker of Atkinson, NE.

Sergeant Schmuecker was a 1999 graduate of West Holt High School in 
Atkinson, NE, and attended Northeast Community College in Norfolk. He 
joined the Nebraska Army National Guard in 2001, after serving the city 
of Atkinson as a police officer.

He and his wife Lisa were married for more than 4 years, and lived in 
Norfolk with their three children; Dylan, 4, Kierstan, 3, and Bryce, 19 
months. Lisa describes her husband as someone who was deeply committed 
to his service, and someone who volunteered for a mission to make the 
world a safer place for his children. She knows her children will 
remember their father for being a loving husband to her, a dedicated 
father, and an outstanding soldier.

A member of the 755th chemical company based out of O'Neill, NE, 
Sergeant Schmuecker had proudly served in the Army National Guard for 6 
years. Having previously served in Afghanistan, he was 10 months into 
his first tour in Iraq when he passed away in Balad, after an 
improvised explosive device detonated near his armored vehicle. He was 
27 years old.

In addition to his wife, Sergeant Schmuecker is survived by his 
parents Rodney and Patricia of Atkinson, and his brother Chris Shepperd 
of Norfolk. Today, I mourn the loss of a true American patriot, a 
devoted husband, and a loving father of three. He and his family have 
made the ultimate sacrifice to make our country a safer place to live.













 Corporal Ryan A. Woodward
