---
---

# None
## `b09172accfd168746c890ad27b40b23b`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. I thank the Chair.

Since the Senator is running for President, we are glad to 
accommodate him for what time he needs. He is serious and very 
emotional about this issue, and he should be. We all should be. I 
commend the Senator from Connecticut for spending a good bit of time on 
talking about this issue. I commend the Senator from New York for 
bringing this issue to the forefront. We are in a war unlike any war we 
have ever been in before. We are in different times today with respect 
to military conflicts, and the inclusion of our wounded warriors in the 
Family and Medical Leave Act is certainly well deserved and something 
that I hope we get passed before we leave.

I rise to commend the President's Commission on Care for America's 
Returning Wounded Warriors for their hard, high-quality work in 
analyzing and recommending improvements for our Nation's treatment of 
wounded warriors. The Dole-Shalala Commission has boldly addressed one 
of the most important issues facing our military today and has created 
a simple roadmap that will help make monumental improvements to the 
military health care system. I am pleased the Commission's 
recommendations span agencies, cross services, and take into 
consideration the needs of both veterans as well as their families.

During their review, they visited 23 health care facilities, 
including military and VA hospitals and treatment centers nationwide, 
held 7 public meetings, heard testimony from military health care 
experts, and communicated directly with servicemembers, their families, 
and health care professionals. This dialog is greatly needed and must 
continue. I provided my own input directly to the Commission regarding 
one of Georgia's own success stories in providing care to wounded 
warriors through a partnership between the Eisenhower Army Medical 
Center at Fort Gordon, GA, and the Augusta VA hospital. This Commission 
untangled a web of complex issues and provided six recommendations 
based on their findings. Former Senator Dole and Secretary Shalala did 
what others have been trying to do since World War II. Their joint 
statement succinctly describes the culmination of these efforts.

The face of our military has changed, as have their needs. Some 
returning servicemembers, injured in the line of duty, have complex and 
often multiple injuries placing greater challenges on the DOD and VA as 
well as family members. Well-meaning attempts over the years to reform 
health care in the military and VA have produced many positive results 
that have also made the system more complex and confusing in some 
areas. In these cases, it is difficult for servicemembers, their 
families, and caregivers to understand how to navigate the system. The 
events that brought us to this point were inexcusable and could have 
been prevented. However, I would be remiss if I did not mention a 
letter I received from a constituent whose son was a patient at Walter 
Reed Medical Center, after being evacuated from Iraq due to injuries he 
sustained in an IED attack. The letter said to the commander and staff 
at Walter Reed:




 You and your staff are a remarkable team that has the 


 welfare of our soldiers and families foremost in mind as you 


 execute your critically important duties. My family and I owe 


 you and your team our heartfelt thanks and debt of gratitude 


 we can never repay.


This kind of feedback tells me the Army's improvements are taking 
hold. Through the Commission and recent legislation, these improvements 
will continue. I applaud the Commission's work and am equally pleased 
that much of it parallels the initiatives set forth by the Senate's 
Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act. The President's Commission 
recommended that seriously wounded servicemembers receive a patient-
centered recovery plan developed by a cadre of highly skilled recovery 
coordinators. Such a plan can only increase the level of support given 
to our wounded warriors.

Along these same lines, the Wounded Warrior bill requires development 
of a unified and comprehensive policy between the VA and the Department 
of Defense that addresses personnel strength, training, access, 
standards, family counseling, and creation of a DOD-wide ombudsman. Of 
central importance, the Commission recommends a complete restructure of 
the disability and compensation systems. We have all heard case after 
case of lost paperwork, endless waste, bureaucratic delays, and 
confusing redundant processes. Both the Commission and the Wounded 
Warrior bill provide guidance to consolidate systems and streamline 
this process.

One of the most important recommendations made by the Commission, 
also addressed in the Wounded Warrior bill, concerns increased support 
to the families of our Wounded Warriors. Although the Commission did 
not visit Georgia, I have spent time at Fort Stewart and Fort Benning 
with family members of deployed troops, and I have spent as much time 
with the troops themselves in my five visits to Iraq. I can tell you 
that when it comes to taking care of our servicemembers, the well-being 
of their families is of paramount, if not greater, importance to them 
than their own well-being. These troops can count on their families. 
The more we support the families, the better we are taking care of our 
troops.

Among other things, the Dole-Shalala report recommends extending 
privileges under the Family and Medical Leave Act from 12 weeks to 6 
months, which will allow family members to take up to 6 months of leave 
to care for a wounded servicemember. I am proud to be a cosponsor of 
this bill that introduces legislation that enacts this recommendation.

The bill Senator Pryor and I cosponsored on this subject, the Wounded


Warrior Assistance Act, S. 1283, also contains provisions along these 
lines, such as advocating counseling and job placement services for 
family members, as well as the creation of an ombudsman's office which 
will provide support to members and their families.

So, once again, I commend Senator Clinton for her initiative in 
getting this bill on the Family Medical Leave Act introduced and I 
concur again with the Senator from Connecticut. I hope this legislation 
is completed before we leave here in the next couple of days.

The global war on terror has brought recognition of the enormous 
impact of two previously silent and little-noticed conditions to the 
forefront: post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury. 
Accordingly, both the Commission and the Wounded Warrior bill address 
these issues. The Dole-Shalala report advocates the most aggressive 
treatment for both conditions by the DOD and the VA, and also 
recommends private-sector involvement to capitalize on the most recent 
and valuable findings and treatments.

Similarly, the Wounded Warrior bill provides comprehensive and 
coordinated policies between DOD and the VA on PTSD and TBI. The 
Wounded Warrior bill creates a level of accountability for the DOD and 
VA by requiring an annual report on PTSD and TBI expenditures and 
reports assessing progress in the overall treatment of these 
conditions.

The bill also includes a provision I proposed that builds upon a 
study at Emory University for TBI treatment and the use of progesterone 
and directs collaboration between DOD and other Federal agencies in 
TBI-related research and clinical trials.

The approach taken by the Commission and in the Wounded Warrior Act 
capitalizes on cooperation among Federal agencies, as well as between 
the Federal Government and private sector. As part of the fiscal year 
2008 National Defense Authorization Act, I proposed a sense-of-the-
Senate amendment that DOD continue to encourage collaboration between 
the Army and the VA in the treatment of wounded warriors.

A prime example of this type of collaboration is in Augusta, GA, 
between the only Active-Duty rehabilitation unit, located at the 
Augusta Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, and the 
behavioral health care services program at the Eisenhower Army Medical 
Center at Fort Gordon, GA. This unique, unprecedented collaboration 
between the Augusta VA and the Eisenhower Army Medical Center has been 
growing since its inception in 2004, assisted by GEN Eric Schoomaker, 
now the head of Walter Reed and former commander of the Eisenhower Army 
Medical Center. Our wounded warriors deserve the best possible care. 
The recommendations of the President's Commission and the requirements 
set forth in the Dignity for Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act pave a 
clear path for the type of medical treatment and support the people 
defending our Nation deserve.

I am proud to be a cosponsor of the Wounded Warrior Act, unanimously 
approved by the Senate. I am pleased with the comprehensive 
recommendations provided by Senator Dole and Secretary Shalala. I 
especially thank the servicemembers and their families who have shared 
openly and bravely about their experiences to this body as well as to 
the Commission. Their stories made the need for this reform real to all 
of us, and their experiences can help us transform the quality of 
military health care. Doing so will be one small way of saying thank 
you to the men and women in the U.S. military for their service and 
their sacrifice.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I have 2 additional 
minutes to address the bill before the Senator from New York is 
recognized.