---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b09d20dcee794471532e7336f0ab78f5`
`Mr. McCOTTER — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. Madam Speaker, President Lincoln warned, ''A house 
divided against itself cannot stand. I believe this government cannot 
endure permanently half slave and half free. It will become all one 
thing or all the other.''

Today, our House is divided; tomorrow, it will become all one thing 
or all the other. What are the possibilities?

In our divided House, one side believes we must win in Iraq to avoid 
a catastrophe; another side assumes we can lose in Iraq without 
consequence.

One side believes we must support our troops in harm's way and 
continue their funding; another side claims we can support our troops 
in harm's way and cut their funding.

One side assumes we must defeat al Qaeda in Iraq; another side 
asserts we can retreat from al Qaeda in Iraq.

And one side believes the American people voted to change course in 
Iraq to win; another side feels the American people voted to change 
course in Iraq to lose.

Shortly, we will see how divided we are. One side will vote to 
support the President's plan to win in Iraq by reinforcing our troops, 
and then pray to God we are right; one side will vote against the 
President's plan. And in this question rests the answer to the future 
of our divided House.

My friends, many of you are about to put yourselves in a precarious 
position, for no one knows what the future holds. While we may feel 
sure of our decisions in the evanescent present, the unfathomable 
vagaries of fate have yet to fully play upon the stage of human 
history. As a result, many supporters of this resolution made an 
ominous omission while urging its adoption: In denouncing the 
President's plan, too few of you have openly hoped our troops' new 
mission would win the day and prove you wrong.

Being your colleague, I know you share this hope in your hearts. But 
your fellow Americans in fields abroad and constituencies at home must 
now wonder, will you cut our troops funding to prove yourselves right?

Sooner than you imagine, this nonbinding resolution will instigate 
binding legislation to commence a ''slow bleed'' of funding cuts while 
our troops battle against the enemy. Again, because I serve beside you 
every day, I know you abhor the thought of American soldiers being 
harmed by such an abject betrayal of their trust during combat, but it 
is upon this crucible of conscience you will be judged by all. And when 
the time comes to confront the consequences of today's expediency, I 
pray you make the right decision. If, however, you make the wrong 
decision, you will not only betray our citizen soldiers' trust, you 
will disastrously unite this House in a callow contentment with our own 
liberty and a calloused apathy to others' enslavement.

Could there be any more dishonorable epitaph for our free Republic's 
revolutionary experiment in democracy? True, some allege I exaggerate 
the danger, but they have turned a blind eye to the epitaphs of liberty 
etched above the ruins of nations once gloried, now dead: the Athenian 
city-state, the Roman Republic, the Weimar Republic.

Thus, even as we today divide in our own House, we remain compelled 
to unite behind the cause of our free Republic in this dangerous age of 
globalization, wherein humanity's destiny is daily entwined across the 
disparate reaches of Earth.

Our cause is this: Our world cannot permanently endure half slave and 
half free. It will become all one thing or all the other, as it has 
before in the darkest ages of human existence.

My friends, at this crossroads of our Republic, we must heed the 
better angels of our nature. We must unite our divided House behind the 
self-evident truth that all human beings are endowed by their Creator, 
with the inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of 
happiness.

We must extend freedom to the Iraqis and, in so doing, enhance the 
liberty of ourselves and all free peoples and inspire our fellow human 
beings caged in


tyranny's embrace. And emulating our nation's greatest generations, we 
must let hope to flow from God's heart to our humble hands so we may, 
where He allows, emancipate humanity into a new birth of freedom for 
ourselves and generations unborn.

Madam Speaker, we must reject this resolution, unite behind our 
heroic troops and, God willing, win our country and humanity's mortal 
struggle to be free.