---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `b0a1530b7725f9aac0f8a88a66c8a734`
`Mr. CARDIN — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, on May 16, 2007, I attended SSG Jay Edward 
Martin's funeral. A soldier born and raised in Baltimore, MD, Sergeant 
Martin lost his life in service to our country. He was 29 years old. I 
rise today to pay tribute to his life and his sacrifice.

Sergeant Martin and two others were killed Sunday, April 29, when an 
improvised explosive device detonated near their vehicle during combat 
operations in Baghdad.

Sergeant Martin was not new to the military. After joining the Army 
in November 1997, he served for nearly 2 years in Germany and Bosnia. 
He was then stationed at Fort Irwin in California as an Army recruiter. 
But as a recruiter, Sergeant Martin grew restless and chose to go to 
Baghdad. A childhood friend remembers Jay's explanation: ''I'm supposed 
to be fighting for my country; I can't sit in an office.'' An 
experienced soldier, Sergeant Martin knew the risks and challenges he 
would face, and this knowledge makes his decision to serve all the more 
admirable.

Sergeant Martin had been scheduled for a 2-week break from Iraq in 
April. But in a selfless move--one that Jay's family describes as 
typical of his generous spirit--he allowed a fellow soldier whose wife 
just had a baby to take his place.

Jay is remembered by those who knew him for his determination, 
bravery, and devotion to service. Jay displayed remarkable leadership, 
focus, and determination even as he suffered setbacks in his young 
life. Jay's mother died when he was only 8 years old, but Jay remained 
focused on his dream of becoming a pilot and joining the military. An 
aunt, Lori Martin-Graham, recalls that he would talk about military 
service for hours with her husband, who had served in the Navy.

Sergeant Martin spoke fervently about the importance of college and 
attended Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, FL. He


left after a year when he realized his poor vision would prevent him 
from becoming a pilot. Jay moved forward and joined the Army. ''Jay was 
always . . . positive, ambitious,'' remembered a friend. ''He was 
always your good conscience.''

As one of Sergeant Martin's sisters, Lark Adams, put it, ''He was 
just a shining star. He followed the rules. He did what he was supposed 
to. He was an example to everyone.''

After his death, Jay's fiance Maria Padilla, explained that he would 
have wanted to see those close to him ''laughing because he left us 
doing what he loved. He left us being the soldier he was so proud of 
being.''

I hope his family and all who loved Jay will find comfort in that 
image of the proud and selfless soldier who won several awards 
including the Army Commendation Medal and the Army Good Conduct Medal. 
But I also hope they find joy in their memories of the young man who 
devised hide-and-seek strategy with his friends, who was a swim and 
track star at Forest Park High School, who took such great pride in his 
Dodge Stratus RT, who played video games in his grandmother's kitchen, 
and who debated the future of the F-14 with his uncle.

My thoughts and prayers go out to Jay's father Dwight Martin and 
stepmother Penny Martin; his grandfather Harry Martin; his four 
sisters, Lark, Dove, Raven and Shannon; his fiance Maria, and all the 
other relatives and friends who are bereaved. We honor him as a hero 
and together mourn his loss.
