# None
## `b0a214277f8444fb534060179d5830be`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. It is just about the choices that you 
make. Who do you want to subsidize? Do you want to subsidize the oil 
companies and the big energy companies? Or do you want to subsidize 
people who are investing in renewable energy, in the energy of the next 
decade, the next century? That is a choice we made here in the energy 
bill we passed. Do you want to subsidize the banks who are doing pretty 
well these days? Or do you want to subsidize the students? We made the 
choice here in this Congress to subsidize the students instead. We are 
faced with a simple choice now. Do you want to continue to subsidize 
the military-industrial complex? Do you want to continue putting money 
into a war that is making this country less safe every day rather than 
more safe? More money into a civil, religious conflict between 
sectarian groups in Iraq? Or do you want to do health care for kids who 
have no other resources in which to get that health care.

My folks back home, to my neighbors, to my family, to the people that 
I get to represent here in my first term in Congress, these are real 
easy choices. Students over banks. Renewable energy over oil companies. 
Kids over a war that is going nowhere but backwards. It seems to me 
that we are getting more and more people on the Republican side to join 
us. We are getting more and more of the public. We have a list here, 
Mr. Ryan, Mr. Meek and Mrs. Tubbs Jones, we have a list 270 pages long 
of every single potential group you can think of, 270 different groups, 
the Consumers Union, Denver Area Labor Federation, the Easter Seals, 
the Forum for Youth Investment, Greater Hartford Legal Aid, you just go 
down the list. Everybody out there gets this, that this is the choice 
you're supposed to make. But what we get here is a lot of rhetoric.



Because, Mr. Ryan, you said at the beginning, this is more than about 
kids, for folks on the other side of the aisle, this is about ideology. 
They are having a political fight on the floor of the House of 
Representatives, and the kids, the 4 million kids who are going to go 
without health care if this bill doesn't get passed and signed, are the 
victims of that political choice.

I was in the Government Oversight Committee that I get to serve on 
the other day and we had Blackwater in front of us. We are giving them 
about $1 billion a year to basically form a private military in Iraq. 
The CEO who was before us wouldn't tell us how much he made, but he 
could at least tell us that it was well over $1 million. It was about 
seven times as much as the commanding general in Iraq gets to preside 
over 160,000 troops.

One of the Republicans came out and said, you know, this is unfair. 
The Democrats are picking on these contractors. All of a sudden the 
Democrats seem to care about the money that we are spending in Iraq.

Well, you better believe we do. Somebody has to.