# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `b0a6cf68047ce388c811901017bdb69f`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, before we vote on this bill, we 
need to remind ourselves one more time, the jihadist terrorism is what 
this debate is all about.

Brink Lindsey put it in such succinct terms when he said, ''Here is 
the grim truth: We are only one act of madness away from a social 
cataclysm unlike anything our country has ever known. After a handful 
of such acts, who knows what kind of civilization breakdown might be in 
store?''

Mr. Speaker, as we anticipate future actions of jihadists and our 
place in Iraq, we would do well to consider their words very carefully. 
Al Qaeda's al-Zawahiri said this: ''The jihad movement is growing and 
rising. It reached its peak with the two blessed raids on New York and 
Washington. And now it is waging a great heroic battle in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, Palestine, and even within the crusaders' own homes.''

Osama bin Laden himself said: ''The most important and serious issue 
today for the whole world is this third world war. It is raging in the 
land of the two rivers,'' Iraq. ''The world's millstone and pillar is 
in Baghdad, the capital of the caliphate.''

Mr. Speaker, if Democrats are correct that the struggle in Iraq is 
not crucial to winning the war against jihadism, then for God's sake, I 
wish they would explain that to the terrorists. Instead, we hear the 
most senior Democrat in this House quoted as saying, ''I don't take 
sides for or against Hezbollah, or for or against Israel.''

Mr. Speaker, a blind relativism that deliberatively ignores all truth 
and equates merciless terrorism with free nations defending themselves 
and their innocent citizens is more dangerous to humanity than 
terrorism itself, and it is proof that liberals completely 
misunderstand the enemy that we face.

Because of this kind of relativist neutrality, jihadists now believe 
they have a crucial advantage over the free world and its people. They 
believe their will is far stronger than ours, and that they need only 
to persevere to prevail.

Mr. Speaker, the passage of this bill will only encourage them in 
that belief. And if liberals in this body are willing to see freedom 
defeated in Iraq, they must also be willing to take responsibility for 
almost certainly what will follow.

Mr. Speaker, finally, we can have peace with jihadists tomorrow if we 
are willing to surrender today. And that kind of surrender will be on 
their terms, and it will ultimately bring a nuclear jihad to our 
children. Future American generations will despise this one.

Mr. Speaker, there is still time to defeat this bill. Let us not take 
this ominous step in this direction.