---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `b0b897cd2493d51645491f2a32a22510`
`Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this 
legislation.

The American people are not happy with the conflict in Iraq; I am not 
pleased either. Every day, my constituents tell me their concerns with 
Iraq, and I can understand their desire to put this behind us.

The reality is, however, that we cannot snap our fingers and make 
things all better; it's not simply going to go away.

My friends on the other side of the aisle have argued for years that 
we rushed headlong into Iraq without seriously considering the long-
term consequences. Yet with this legislation they are repeating the 
very same mistake, only in reverse.

Staying the course is not a viable option, but neither is the fallacy 
of the orderly, phased withdrawal proposed by this legislation. You 
cannot gradually blow up a dam; once we begin to leave, chaos will 
immediately ensue. So I ask my colleagues, what do you propose to do 
after you order our troops away? What's your plan? Where's your 
responsible and workable strategy and vision?

Unfortunately, such a scenario may prove inevitable. But my 
colleagues hold forth this legislation as a plan: it's not. It's 
political pabulum. It might give politicians cover, but it exposes our 
servicemen to danger even greater than they already face. Ethnic, 
tribal, and religious killings will increase by an order of magnitude. 
The current refugee situation, already a disaster for Iraq's neighbors, 
will be dwarfed by the exodus to come. Our own men and women in uniform 
will be standing in front of a tsunami of violence.

What is required is a thoughtful, deliberative plan to make the best 
of an undeniably bad situation. Such a plan is embodied in the 
recommendations of the Iraq Study Group--the product of a concerted, 
bipartisan and sincere effort on the part of some of our brightest 
citizens.

I have long advocated we seriously follow--or at least debate--the 
recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. Foreign policy and diplomatic 
issues are usually complicated, nuanced and multi-leveled; the 
situation in Iraq is no different. Yet all we have been given to 
consider are all-or-nothing propositions.



I would welcome a bona fide discussion regarding how to move forward 
in Iraq and in the Middle East generally--that is what we owe the 
American people. What we have today is nothing but four hours cooing to 
the other side's base. This is not leadership. No amendments were made 
in order. There was no reaching out to Republicans like myself who felt 
the surge was a mistake and are looking for another direction. What we 
have is a framed ''take it or leave it,'' ''my way or the highway'' 
approach. That approach got us where we are--a healthy dialogue with 
options is needed to appropriately disengage.

Two months remain until General Petraeus will be summoned before 
Congress. He will give us--as we have charged him to do--an honest 
assessment on where this ''surge'' has lead our troops and the Iraqi 
people. I hope at that time, whether his testimony reveals success or 
failure, this body will have the wherewithal to have a serious, open 
debate on what options we have left.