---
---

# IRAQ
## `b0b81def990e6bd060a27a0d1d5a8f00`
`Mr. CARDIN — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Thank you, Madam President.

Madam President, as a new Member of this body, I must tell you that I 
am frustrated and disappointed. I am disappointed that the Republicans 
are blocking a vote on whether we support or oppose the President's 
plan to add additional troops to Iraq. I can tell you that is the issue 
of the day. That is what my constituents are asking of us, and I think 
they have a right to expect that the Members of this body are willing 
to go on record either for or against the President's plan to add 
additional troops to Iraq.

I have listened to my colleagues. I have listened to my colleagues in 
committee, and I have listened to my colleagues on this floor, and I 
think the majority of us want to go on record opposing the surge. Both 
Democrats and Republicans oppose it. I think there is a bipartisan 
group that can provide the consensus in this body to go on record 
against the surge.

Several months ago, the President said we were going to have a new 
plan in Iraq. Shortly after that, the Iraq Study Group came out with 
its report. To me, this has been the best analysis of the situation 
that we have before us. The study group is composed of distinguished 
members, and it was a creation of the Congress. Secretary Baker, who 
cochaired the group, served in three administrations and has broad 
experience in government. Mr. Hamilton, who served in the other body on 
the Foreign Relations Committee, the Committee on International 
Relations it is called over there, has served with great distinction 
both as chairman and ranking member. The other members of the 
committee--they said we cannot win in Iraq through our military 
efforts. That is not going to bring success in Iraq. The Iraqis must 
step forward and defend their own country and we must move forward with 
new diplomatic efforts. We need ''a new diplomatic offensive'' is what 
they called it, and they said: We need to start that before December 
31, 2006. The ability of the United States to influence events within 
Iraq is diminishing. We still have not seen that new offensive 
diplomatic effort.


GEN George Casey said, ''It has always been my view that heavy and 
sustained American military presence was not going to solve the 
problems in Iraq over the long term.''

We got the President's plan and the President's plan was more of the 
same, stay the course but with more U.S. military presence. We had 3 
weeks of hearings before the Foreign Relations Committee. Military 
expert after military expert, foreign policy expert after foreign 
policy expert, told us that there is a deterioration in Iraq and our 
policies are not working and we need to move in a new direction. We 
need to come to grips with the fact that the Iraqis must stand up and 
defend their own country and we must engage the international community 
much more aggressively.

I congratulate Senator Warner and Senator Levin for coming forward 
with a compromise resolution that allows us to go on record opposed to 
the increased American military presence in Iraq. I do not agree with 
everything that is in that resolution, but I do think it clearly puts 
the Senate on record against the increased surge of American troops in 
Iraq, and that is our responsibility. That is what we should be doing. 
We should not hide behind procedural roadblocks to avoid voting on that 
issue. That is the most important issue facing this Nation today, and 
we should be willing to vote on that issue. It is not about the 
President of the United States. It is about this body carrying out its 
responsibility. That is what each of us has a responsibility to do.

Why am I so much against the increase in the U.S. military presence 
in Iraq? Let me first start with the numbers. The President said the 
surge would involve 21,500 additional American troops in Iraq. That is 
not the case. Michael Gilmore, the Assistant Director for National 
Security at the Congressional Budget Office, testified yesterday before 
our Budget Committee, and he said it is not going to be 21,500, it is 
going to be closer to 48,000 additional American troops because the 
21,500 are the frontline combat troops. You need the support staff in 
order to support the 21,500.

The budget the President submitted to us said that is going to cost 
about $5.6 billion, but CBO now says it is going to be closer to $20 to 
$27 billion of additional cost, just with the surge, in addition to 
what we are already spending. The President claims his budget is to 
balance in 5 years, but he has no cost for the Iraq war beyond 2008.

The numbers speak for themselves. The President is asking us to go 
along with stay the course but at a higher cost, both in American 
military presence and the costs to American taxpayers in this country.

The situation in Iraq is deteriorating. Every person who has come 
before us who is an expert in this area has acknowledged that. There is 
a civil war in Iraq, and Americans have paid a very heavy price for our 
commitment


in Iraq--over 3,000 dead and many more with life-changing injuries. 
There have been hundreds of billions of dollars spent. That represents 
missed opportunities in America--money we need to strengthen our 
military and national defense. We have used our National Guard and 
reservists. We should be supporting them, improving the quality of life 
for our soldiers and for our veterans. Our soldiers have served with 
great distinction and valor. We owe it to them to get it right. We owe 
it to them to do everything we can for a successful outcome in Iraq. 
That is why it is our responsibility, on behalf of our soldiers, to 
take up this issue.

We have lost our focus in the war against terror, we have weakened 
U.S. influence internationally, and, yes, we have lost other 
opportunities beyond defense because those hundreds of billions of 
dollars we spent could have been spent to balance our budget, could 
have been spent to increase our commitment to national priorities such 
as education and health care and the environment. But we have lost 
those issues.

The first order of business for us should be to go on record against 
increasing the American military presence in Iraq. That should be our 
first order of business. But then we need to do more. I opposed the war 
from the beginning. I voted against it in the other body. I have been a 
critic of the President in the management of the war, in his failure to 
properly engage the international community both before and after going 
into Iraq, and the decision made by someone in the White House to take 
out the Iraqi security forces when we went in, that was a mistake. I 
have been pretty consistent against the President, but we need to do 
more than pass this resolution. I think we should take up this 
resolution first. This is the first order of business. But then we need 
to do more.

The Iraqis have a responsibility to take care of their own security 
needs in the midst of a civil war. We need to engage the international 
community with a diplomatic and political initiative so the Government 
of Iraq has the confidence of the ethnic communities. This is sectarian 
violence. We need to change the way the Iraqis are doing business and 
help them through diplomatic efforts. We need to engage the 
international community. We need more assistance in training Iraqi 
security forces. You can't do it all by Americans; we need the 
international community. We need the international community to help us 
with the humanitarian crisis that is in Iraq. The number of refugees, 
displaced individuals, is in the millions. We need the help of the 
international community to deal with the humanitarian crisis. You are 
not going to have peace in Iraq until you deal with that.

We need the help of the international community on the infrastructure 
improvements, the economy of Iraq. The American taxpayers cannot do it 
alone, and we have wasted a lot of our taxpayer dollars in Iraq. We 
need the international community to help us. In short, we need a new 
direction, a plan that includes bringing some of our combat troops 
home, to make it clear to the Iraqis we are not going to be there 
indefinitely, to make it clear to the international community we expect 
the Iraqis to take care of their own security needs. That is what we 
need.

But first things first. Let's take a vote on the President's plan. 
Let's get that done. Let's stop using procedural roadblocks to prevent 
a vote in this body but to vote for or against the President's plan to 
bring more troops to Iraq.


Then we should consider additional options to make it clear it is our 
responsibility to help bring about a new direction for American 
involvement in Iraq.

I yield the floor.