# None
## `b0c117f73b61d60100ae269ceb746b05`
`Mr. HARKIN â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Madam President, I have listened to most of the comments 
made by my friend from Oklahoma, and I think he asked some good 
questions, things we all have to consider about what will happen when 
we leave.

The Senator talked about the moral obligations, what moral 
obligations we have. I wonder what moral obligation we had back in the 
1980s when Donald Rumsfeld went to visit with Saddam Hussein? What 
moral responsibility did we have in the Reagan administration when we 
supported Saddam Hussein, gave him weapons, and gave him information in 
his war against Iran? What was our moral obligation at that time?

We hear about what will happen when we leave, all this talk about a 
bloodbath and everything. Well, Madam President, I can remember 
Vietnam. I can remember the same things: Oh, if we leave Vietnam--we 
either fight them there or we fight them here. We have to stop the 
Communists in Vietnam or it will be the Philippines next and then 
Japan. We have to stop them there. And if we leave, there will be a 
bloodbath in Vietnam. All of the people who supported us will be 
slaughtered in the streets.

Well, it didn't happen. Here today, with Vietnam, we have diplomatic 
relations. I think we just had the new Ambassador or President come 
over and meet with President Bush in the White House. Cruise ships, 
these big cruise ships now dock over in Saigon and people get off and 
go into Saigon. Americans take cruise ships over there in Vietnam and 
go to the beaches. You look back and you think about those 50,000-plus 
Americans who died over there, and you wonder, what was that all about? 
What was that moral obligation all about?


So, again, we haven't learned from the past. The specter is always 
raised that calamities will happen if we don't follow what the 
President wants. Well, the President is not always right. This 
President and his colleagues here couldn't be more wrong about our 
course in Iraq.

So I have come to the floor this evening on behalf of many Iowans who 
have been calling and e-mailing my office. The overwhelming majority of 
people in my State have turned against the war in Iraq, as have the 
overwhelming majority of Americans elsewhere. According to a USA Today/
Gallup poll released last week, 71 percent of Americans favor removing 
all U.S. troops from Iraq by April 1 of next year.

The American people are sick of seeing our brave men and women killed 
and maimed in what has become a vicious civil war in Iraq. They want to 
chart a new course in Iraq, a course out of that civil war. They simply 
can't believe President Bush and his allies in this body have responded 
to their wishes with a strategy of obstruction, filibuster, and veto 
threats. They can't believe Republican Senators here are blocking votes 
on the No. 1 issue before our Nation, the No. 1 issue on the minds of 
the American people.

All we are asking of our Republican colleagues is let us vote. Let us 
vote up or down on whether we want to extricate ourselves from Iraq and 
bring the troops home. In a nutshell, people have been calling my 
office saying that Republican Senators certainly have a right to 
support President Bush's war in Iraq, they have a right to advocate 
that we stay the course, but our Republican colleagues should not claim 
a right to block simple up-or-down votes on amendments calling for a 
new course in Iraq.



The President and his allies are demanding we wait until September 
before we act, but this is the same game of obstruction and delay they 
have been playing for years now. Time and again, the President has 
announced a new plan, a new strategy for victory in Iraq. Time and 
again, the President has asked for patience. Time and again, he has 
cited progress and suggested that success is just around the corner. 
Sounds just like Vietnam. Meanwhile, with each new plan, with every new 
strategy, the United States gets dragged deeper and deeper into the 
quagmire in Iraq. More Americans get killed and maimed, more innocent 
Iraqi men, women, and children are killed and wounded, and Iraq spirals 
deeper into chaos and sectarian division. Sounds just like Vietnam.

The President's spokesmen insult our intelligence, saying that the 
surge is only a couple weeks old, that we should give it a chance. As 
we all know, it was announced in January, more than 6 months ago. I 
remember very well because 1 day after the President announced his 
surge, 640 soldiers from the 133rd Infantry of the Iowa National Guard 
were told they would not be coming home from Anbar Province as planned. 
Instead, their combat tour would be extended to 16 months--nearly a 
year and a half in the middle of the most deadly combat in Iraq.

Since the surge began back in January, 615 more U.S. troops have died 
in Iraq. Many thousands more have been injured. Since the surge was 
announced, eight more soldiers from Iowa have been killed in Iraq, 
including a second soldier from the small town of Tipton, IA. Think 
about that, a small community of 3,100 people in rural Iowa has lost 
two of its sons in Iraq.

On Sunday, the Washington Post published a story about Tipton, IA, 
and its growing disillusionment with the war in Iraq. The story noted 
that in the first 6 months of this year--since the surge began--125 
troops from 10 Midwestern States have died in Iraq, the bloodiest 
stretch of the war so far.

Mr. President, as more and more Iowans and other Americans turn 
against this war, as more and more of our young men and women are 
killed and wounded, the administration asks us to be patient. But 
patience is not a virtue in the face of a manifestly failed policy, and 
there is no virtue in staying the course when the course you are on is 
dragging you deeper and deeper into a geopolitical disaster.

Just last week, the administration issued the required progress 
report on benchmarks for Iraq. As expected, the report shows that the 
Government in Baghdad has failed to meet any of the benchmarks for 
political and economic reform. The Iraqis have failed to make progress 
in passing a law governing the sharing of oil revenues. They have 
failed to make progress in allowing former Baath party members to 
return to their jobs. They have failed to make progress in disarming 
militias. They have failed to make progress in organizing new 
provincial elections. Failure after failure after failure. Indeed, the 
only thing the Sunni, Shiites and the Kurds in Parliament have agreed 
on is that they will go on vacation in the month of August.

The American people refuse to be patient in the face of this 
monumental failure. And I agree wholeheartedly with Senator Lugar's 
remarks on this floor to the effect that we cannot and should not wait 
until September to begin to chart a new course. The war has been 
spiraling downward for 52 months. What possible difference could 2 
months make?

Indeed, I can predict right now what will happen when we get General 
Petraeus's report in mid-September. Against all evidence to the 
contrary, the President will cherry-pick the report to claim positive 
military results from the surge, and he will say those results justify 
staying the course until the end of the year or into next spring or for 
another year. Indeed, yesterday, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff said the surge could well be followed by a request for even more 
troops. I was told today that about 50 percent of our troops in Iraq 
are now National Guard and reservists.

Well, it is abundantly clear to me that this President has no 
intention whatsoever of changing course or reducing the number of 
troops in Iraq through the end of his term on January 20, 2009. He will 
only change course when and if he is compelled to do so by the 
Congress, and that is exactly what a clear majority of the Senate is 
attempting to do with amendments to this Defense authorization bill.

The Levin-Reed amendment was basically passed by the House. But now, 
Republican Senators here will not allow us to vote on it. All we are 
asking is to let us vote up or down on the Levin-Reed amendment. The 
President and his allies are responding with a furious campaign of 
obstruction, filibuster, and veto threats. They refuse to listen. They 
refuse to learn. They refuse to consider a new direction. All we are 
asking is, let us vote. Let us vote.

I personally know many Iowans serving in our Armed Forces. Whether 
Active Duty or the Guard or Reserve, they are disciplined professionals 
who love their country. Even those who profoundly disagree with the war 
and the surge will continue to do their duty. They deserve our profound 
respect and admiration. But we need to listen to them. We need to 
listen to their families.

So I have come to the floor tonight to read just a few of the e-mails 
and letters I have received in recent days. One of them is from Peggy--
I won't use her last name--from Council Bluffs, IA, whose son is 
serving in Iraq, and here is what she writes:




 My 19-year-old son is in Iraq with the United States Army. 


 Please, please get us out of this horrific nightmare and 


 bring them all home. I can't go a day without crying, as I 


 worry about him. Every single member of our brave military 


 that dies in this quagmire is a waste, a tragic waste of 


 life. If my son were to be killed over there, I could never 


 reconcile to it due to the fact that we should not be over 


 there in the first place. We invaded a country based on lies 


 and have caused the death and suffering of untold thousands 


 of Iraqi people. Please vote to withdraw the troops.


Peggy, all I can tell you is that is what we are trying to do. We are 
trying to get a vote up or down to get your son and the troops out of 
Iraq and bring them home. But our Republican colleagues will not allow 
us to have that vote.

I received the following letter from Regina--again, I will not use 
her last name--from Bloomfield, IA. She writes:




 While reading some articles yesterday, I ran across several 


 stating the possibility of extending even more the tours of 


 duty of our soldiers in Iraq. Is there anybody thinking about 


 these soldiers other than how many live in a day and how many 


 die? Do they understand how hard this is on these soldiers, 


 and costly to our Government? And more important, the 


 tremendous pain and agony on the families of these troops? 


 Have you ever been in a war zone for an extended time, or 


 members of your family--in Vietnam, Kuwait or Iraq? . . . If 


 you sense frustration here, it is. [I feel it] every time we 


 lose a soldier over there for something we can never win. . . 


 . I have never taken as much to heart, and fear for my 


 grandchildren. . . . Where is the common sense of our 


 country?


Regina, we are here, pleading with our Republican colleagues for 
common sense. Let us vote up or down on the Levin-Reed amendment, that 
is all we ask. That is what all these letters are asking, basically.

Let me read portions of a letter from Barbara of Waverly.




 I sit here to write this letter, not knowing why, since I'm 


 feeling like no one cares anymore or will be able to do 


 anything about it. I am a 41-year-old woman, a military wife 


 of 23 years and a mother of 3. My husband's unit is currently 


 serving in Iraq and has been gone for 16 months so far on 


 this mission. The soldiers and the families were finally 


 feeling like we were seeing the light at the end of the 


 tunnel. As the new year began, we started our countdown for 


 our reunions expected in April. Our worlds came crashing down 


 once again as we learned that our loved ones would not be 


 coming home in April but were being extended until August, 


 thus being deployed for almost 2 years by the time they 


 return. I am angry, I am devastated. How could this happen? I 


 have lost all hope and faith in our Government. I don't 


 understand politics, so my biggest question is, if so many 


 people are against this war and the increase in troops being 


 sent over, then why is the President not listening? Doesn't 


 he care? I voted for him and believed in him and he has let 


 me down. . . .Please think about the effects this is having 


 on our soldiers and their families. We have all given so much 


 and though we are proud to have been part of serving our 


 country, it is time for our soldiers to come home. Please, 


 bring them home.


Barbara, all I can say is that is what we are trying to do. All we 
are asking is that we be allowed to vote up or down on the Levin-Reed 
amendment.

Let me read excerpts from one more letter. That is why I am reading 
these.


There are probably a lot of things I can say about this issue, but I 
think it is more poignant to read the letters from Iowans, people who 
have been tragically touched by this war. This one is from a mother in 
Dows, IA.




 I have a 19-year-old son, my only child, who is fighting in 


 Iraq. He is a smart, strong and brave infantry soldier. He 


 has always wanted to be a soldier and is proud to serve in 


 the United States Army. He is our pride and joy. Heaven 


 forbid if anything happens to him in Iraq, my husband and I 


 will be crushed beyond measure. . . . My point in telling you 


 all this is that we are talking about young lives that have a 


 bright future. This is not some political game. Why should 


 our Government put our soldiers' lives at risk for a civil 


 war in Iraq? Like it or not, that's what it is, a civil war, 


 and our precious soldiers are smack dab in the middle of it. 


 . . . Why should our soldiers be losing limbs and even dying 


 for a group of people who can't get along and will probably 


 never get along? Iraq did not attack us. . . . Things are 


 going from bad to worse in Iraq. . . . Unless you have a 


 loved one fighting in Iraq, you can't begin to understand how 


 difficult it is. It is time to get the troops back home and 


 back to their families. Every one of these soldiers who have 


 died meant ''everything'' to someone. They were a husband, 


 wife, son, daughter, grandchild or close friend to someone. . 


 . .I am neither a Republican nor Democrat, I am just an 


 American mother who wants this violent war stopped and to get 


 our soldiers home safe.


I can say to this mother, that is what we are trying to do. We are 
trying to get a vote. Let us vote. Let us vote up or down on a deadline 
for getting our troops out of Iraq. What are the Republicans so afraid 
of? Why are they so afraid to let the Senate express its will?

I want all of our colleagues to listen especially closely to the 
final words from this soldier's mother. This is from Dows, IA. She 
writes:




 With the overwhelming majority of the American people 


 wanting to bring our soldiers home and stop the war, don't 


 you think, since you actually work for the American people 


 and are elected by the American people, that you should 


 seriously consider our views and hear our voices? Someone 


 told me I was wasting my time writing this letter, but I 


 believe otherwise. I want my voice heard and isn't this what 


 democracy and freedom are all about? I plead with you with 


 all my heart that you will consider this and do what is best 


 for our troops, their families, and the United States.


That is the end of that letter. Yes, you are right, we actually work 
for the American people. Your voices should be heard. That is what 
democracy and freedom is all about. Yet we are not being allowed to 
have your voices heard here on the Senate floor in terms of a vote. 
Because of the Republican filibuster, we can't. Once again, all we are 
asking is a very simple request from our Republican colleagues: Let us 
vote up or down. Why are you so afraid of that?

The letters and e-mails coming to my office are heartbreaking. They 
tell the story of lives disrupted, lives put at risk, lives in a war 
that the overwhelming majority of Americans believe was a tragic 
mistake. Now 6 months into a surge that has failed to significantly 
reduce the violence in Iraq, 6 months into a surge that has utterly 
failed to bring about any progress or reconciliation within the Iraqi 
Government, Republicans in the Senate are pulling out the stops to 
block a simple up-or-down vote on charting a new course in Iraq.

Once again, I plead, I ask, let us vote. Let us vote. All we are 
asking is just that opportunity, a simple up-or-down vote. Let us have 
the vote.

Frankly, I was shocked last week when Republicans on the other side 
of the aisle filibustered Senator Webb's amendment which was even 
supported by the ranking Republican on the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, Senator Warner. The amendment would only have required that 
active-duty troops receive as much time at home recuperating and 
training as they spend deployed in combat. The amendment even allowed 
for a Presidential waiver if the troops were needed for an emergency. 
This ought to have been an amendment to have drawn strong bipartisan 
support. After all, many troops in Iraq are now in their third or even 
fourth deployment. The Army Chief of Staff has warned Congress that the 
current pace of combat deployment threatens to ''break'' the Army.

The Webb amendment would have passed if we had been allowed a simple 
up-or-down vote, a majority vote. Isn't that what we believe in? We 
believe in a majority vote. Majority votes elect the President. 
Majority votes here pass bills. There was a majority here to pass the 
Webb amendment, but because the Republicans filibustered it, we needed 
60 votes. We couldn't get an up-or-down vote on that amendment.

The wives and mothers and family members who have written to me and 
whose words I placed here in the Record tonight have their own idea of 
what it means to support the troops. They believe it means allowing the 
Senate to have a straight up-or-down vote on these amendments to ensure 
decent treatment of our troops. They believe it means allowing a 
straight up-or-down vote on whether we need to have a new direction in 
Iraq. But they are being denied this by a willful, obstructionist 
minority here in the Senate, a minority that believes, frankly, they 
know better than the American people; a minority that insists on 
endlessly prolonging a war that the American people want to bring to a 
close.

The American people are not only angry about this war, they are angry 
the way our brave men and women in uniform have been misused and 
mistreated. The President rushed our troops into combat without proper 
equipment and in insufficient numbers. He has insisted on staying the 
course of that failed policy for more than 4 miserable years. He has 
sent troops back to Iraq for a third and even fourth rotation, with 
insufficient time to retrain and regroup.

In January he decided to roll the dice one more time by throwing 
another 30,000 troops into the middle of this sectarian civil war in 
Baghdad. Now the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is suggesting 
that come September the President may decide to send even more troops 
to Iraq. At this point, the single best way to support the troops is to 
tell President Bush more than 4 years of bungling, bad judgment, and 
bullheadedness is enough. We have complete and total confidence in our 
troops, but we have no confidence in your leadership or in pursuing 
this war any further.

This evening we have reached an extraordinary juncture. We have a 
surge in Iraq now 6 months old which was designed to give the Iraqi 
Government breathing space for reconciliation.

As I said, the only thing the Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds in 
Parliament have agreed on is that they will go on vacation in August. 
Meanwhile, here in Washington we have a President refusing to listen to 
the American people, supported by a Republican minority in Congress 
that is determined to obstruct any legislation charting a new course. 
If they prevail, if the President and his Republican obstructionists in 
the Senate prevail, our military units will be deployed again and again 
and again until they finally break and the United States will stay 
bogged down and bleeding in Iraq, creating terrorists around the world 
faster than we could ever hope to kill them.

It has reached the point, frankly, where you are either on the side 
of the President and his failed policies or you side with the American 
people and our military commanders who have concluded there is no 
military solution to the mess in Iraq. You either support this endless, 
pointless war or you support a smarter, more focused campaign against 
the terrorists who truly threaten us. It is unconscionable that the 
Republican leader, at the behest of President Bush, is refusing to 
allow the Senate to vote on changing our course in Iraq. At long last 
it is time for them to listen to the American people, to the families 
of our troops in the field. The Senate should be allowed to vote on the 
No. 1 issue facing this country.

It is time the Republicans stop their obstruction to allow the Senate 
to work its will. It is time for Republicans to let us vote, up or 
down, simply up or down on the Levin-Reed amendment to chart a new 
course in Iraq.

I yield the floor.