# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `b0cda38f9869e3297e6aa91c44f3d51d`
`Mr. HUNTER — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might consume.

To my great friend, Ike Skelton, and all my colleagues on the Armed 
Services Committee, it is an undeserved honor, but I want to thank you 
for the wonderful job that you have all done in putting this bill 
together.

This bill would not be, with all of the exigencies that we have had, 
and all of the difficulties in the other body to get their bill up, 
this bill would not be before this body now if it wasn't for the 
leadership of Ike Skelton.

There are a lot of military institutions in Missouri and around this 
country which teach members of the uniformed services leadership, but 
there is another institution which exhibits leadership every day, as 
chairman of this committee, and that's our chairman, Ike Skelton.



Ike worked this thing through a difficult period of time, with the 
emergencies that are emanating right now in the Capitol and the major 
economic emergency which is distracting lots of folks who otherwise 
could be working on this bill. Time schedules have been extremely 
difficult, and Ike Skelton, in his quiet way with his quiet leadership 
and his corporate understanding, he is the main body of history for the 
Armed Services Committee. He is the guy who remembers not only what 
happened in this committee 10 and 20 and 30 and 40 years ago, but also 
what happened in the wars that this Nation fought and what happened in 
that institution across the river known as the Pentagon. And being able 
to recall that history at important times in our deliberative processes 
is a great, great asset to this Nation. Ike, I want to congratulate 
you. This is your bill. It may have my name on it, but this is your 
bill. You brought this thing through to the House floor in the most 
difficult circumstances. Not only that, it is a wonderful bill.

The chairman has talked a lot about the details of the bill. This is 
an authorization of $531.4 billion. It does authorize a $68.6 billion 
bridge fund; a bridge fund, I might add, that was an initiative of the 
Armed Services Committee several years ago.

We looked at our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq and said they are 
going to have to have the equipment and the resources during the later 
months in the calendar year before that spring supplemental arrives, 
and we came up with the bridge fund. The President followed our lead. 
The appropriators have followed our lead, and it has been an excellent 
vehicle allowing us to maintain in these warfighting theaters while we 
are waiting for the next funding vehicle. My congratulations to Ike for 
that.

We do have a good pay raise for the members of the armed services, a 
3.9 percent pay raise. You know, this bill does several other things, 
and I will speak generally about them. It leverages American strengths. 
It leverages American strengths by continuing to keep the line warm, 
for example, on F-22 which is a key weapon system because it is a 
weapon system with the capability to penetrate air defenses that are 
here today and which may be here tomorrow. It leverages two great 
American innovations: stealth and precision weapons.

I would urge all of my colleagues as we go into this very difficult, 
very dangerous era for the United States, to continue to put pressure 
on and to produce American leverage. And stealth and precision 
technology are two of those items of technology, as is undersea 
technology. And we are moving toward an acceleration of the submarine 
program in this bill. That is very critical.

One disappointment I have is we are not doing enough in space. I 
would just say to my colleagues that the shooting down of a satellite 
by China this last year heralded a new era of military competition in 
space with China whether we like it or not. When you are in a military 
competition, there is only one alternative and that is to win. So I 
would urge this committee to continue in the years ahead to build a 
capability in space to make sure that we maintain all of the 
institutions and the apparatus that we need there to make sure that our 
military operates effectively here and that our economy operates 
effectively here.

Also in the area of missile defense, we are moving ahead to try to 
establish a missile defense capability in Europe that would handle 
through that throat of approach out of an Iranian missile launch that 
might take place 5 years or 10 years or 15 years from now, or perhaps 
even earlier. That is an important item because that brings the 
partnership, the NATO-plus partnership of the newly freed captive 
nations, but also the NATO membership, along with us in what is 
sometimes a difficult path, an expensive path, but nonetheless a 
necessary path to defend the world in this new era of missiles.

Mr. Speaker, there are a lot of excellent items in this bill. In the 
end they all go down to and reflect on and focus on the most important 
warfighting leverage that the United States have, and that is the men 
and women of this country who wear the uniform of the United States.

I just want to commend my colleagues for the wonderful job that they 
have done in making sure that the men and women of the United States 
have the right equipment and the right incentives and good pay and good 
quality of life for their families such that when I was in a recruiting 
office the other day, and no I wasn't signing up, but when I was in one 
of the old Army recruiting offices in good old San Diego, the one 
shortage that they had, the one specialty, military occupational 
specialty that they had which was not available because too many people 
had subscribed for it and too many people had signed up for it was 
infantry.

And I thought in these dangerous theaters of Iraq and Afghanistan, 
the idea that we have more people than we need signing up for the 
United States infantry is a reflection largely on this committee.

We have two Members who are retiring, the great Mr. Everett of 
Alabama and the great Mr. Saxton of New Jersey. Mr. Udall is moving on 
to another race, and we wish him well in his endeavors. But those two 
gentlemen are retiring.

Terry Everett has done more good for this country behind closed doors 
than a lot of folks have done with lots of press conferences and lots 
of pronouncements. The quiet man. I know that Mrs. Tauscher held a nice 
going-away party for Mr. Everett that I thought was well-deserved. He 
is a quiet man who has done so much for


this country behind closed doors and is such a valuable asset to the 
United States.

And Mr. Saxton, who years before the war against terror started was 
the chairman of the Task Force on Terrorism here in the House who did 
lots of research and did lots of prediction that this would be the 
conflict and the challenge of this new era.

Jimmy Saxton is owed a debt of gratitude by everybody who wears those 
special forces uniforms around the world. Whether they are Seals or 
Army Rangers or Green Berets, Jimmy Saxton has devoted many years to 
making sure that they have gotten what they need. What a wonderful 
member of this committee he has been.

It is with a little touch of sadness that I am here on this last bill 
that I am going to be involved in with this undeserved honor of having 
my name on this bill, which is a case of more generosity than was 
deserved by the chairman and the members, but it has been an honor to 
serve on this committee. It is a wonderful bipartisan committee, 
probably the most bipartisan in the House of Representatives, always 
with our focus on the security of the United States, even in difficult 
economic times like these. This committee has a very excellent focus on 
what is important to keep that number one requirement, that number one 
Constitutional mandate on government, and that is our first obligation 
is to protect our people. This committee does a great job.

I reserve the balance of my time.