# None
## `b0cd71fb15f6e4e30545fffcfaeabdfe`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 18 November 2010`

---


Mr. WARNER. Before I get to my remarks, Madam President, I want to 
commend my friend, the Senator from Oklahoma, for his comments. I don't 
always agree with him, but I have had the opportunity to sit in the 
Presiding Officer chair and listen to his views over the last 2 years, 
and let me make sure I make clear that his characterization of some of 
those folks with those cameras, I would not fall into that category.

I also want to wish the Senator a very happy birthday. I understand 
it was yesterday, and I wish him all the best. Our offices are next to 
each other and we are good neighbors.













Tribute To Federal Employees


Madam President, I rise today to continue a recent tradition of the 
Senate--the tradition of honoring exemplary Federal employees--my 
friend Senator Ted Kaufman began last year. Senator Kaufman believes, 
as I do, that our Federal employees deserve recognition for their 
admirable patriotism which drives them in their daily work as civil 
servants.

Senator Kaufman highlighted 100 Federal employees in his close to 2 
years of service--100 Federal employees with significant 
accomplishments in the fields of medicine, science, technology, 
diplomacy, and defense. Today I will start to continue that tradition. 
I am very proud that the first Federal employee I am going to have a 
chance to honor is currently a resident of Virginia who combined his 
engineering expertise with his past experiences in the Navy to help 
save 33 Chilean miners after they had been trapped 2000 feet 
underground for 69 days. This was an incident that captured the 
attention of the world, as we all watched the rescue of those miners. 
Again, I will only take a couple of moments to describe this employee 
and how he contributed to that remarkable worldwide success story.

Clint Cragg served in the Navy for 26 years. He, as I mentioned, is 
currently a resident of Virginia. His lifetime of service to our 
country led him to many exciting opportunities, including serving as 
the Chief of Current Operations, U.S. European Command. While in 
Europe, he participated in a number of operations, including the wars 
in Kosovo, Afghanistan, and Iraq. Today, Cragg is principal engineer 
for NASA's Engineering and Safety Center, a center which NASA 
established after the 2003 Columbia Space Shuttle tragedy. Clint has 
given a lifetime of service to his country since his graduation from 
the Naval Academy in 1978, and his service was never more important 
than it was when he took part in the worldwide effort to save the 
Chilean miners.

Clint and his colleagues were asked by the Chilean Government to 
assist in rescuing their 33 countrymen trapped underground in a 
collapsed copper and gold mine. Clint rose to the challenge and flew to 
Chile with three fellow NASA employees to examine the scene. Using his 
experience as a commanding officer of a submarine in the Navy, Clint 
provided valuable insight to the miners on how to cope with the 
underground existence they were in for a sustained period of time. 
Clint and his team also met with Chilean officials to discuss the 
development of a rescue squad capsule that at that time was a 
completely untested idea.

Upon his arrival home, Clint received a message from the Chilean 
Health Minister in which the Minister asked for NASA's help in thinking 
of specific features that would make the rescue capsule idea a reality. 
Clint assembled a team of 20 engineers, 10 from NASA Langley and 10 
from around the country. They commenced brainstorming innovative ideas 
for a capsule design. This was thinking whole cloth. The only 
information the team had available was the capsule's maximum length and 
the diameter of the rescue shaft through which the capsule was required 
to fit. Seventy-two hours later, the team had a written, comprehensive 
report that included 75 proposals for the rescue capsule. The paper 
concluded that the rescue capsule should include a harness inside the 
capsule that can hold a miner in case the miner fell unconscious during 
ascent.

I think we all remember those images on CNN as they kind of drew up 
the capsule. I didn't know, but that capsule was designed by a Federal 
employee and his team we honor today.

As the 33 men rose from beneath the Earth, Clint could take pride in 
his work for NASA and in the knowledge that he and his colleagues had 
made the reunion between these men and their families possible.

I was privileged to meet Clint Cragg and his family and other members 
of the rescue team during a visit to NASA Langley last week and present 
them with a framed American flag that had flown at the U.S. Capitol in 
honor of their contributions. The successful rescue of the miners was a 
testament to the American spirit of cooperation and ingenuity, a spirit 
exemplified by the NASA team.

I hope my colleagues will join me in honoring Clint for his service 
and his leadership team at NASA as this


week's example of a great Federal employee.

I yield the floor.