---
---

# CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b0ee274322fdbff60613b02bc43668e3`
`Mr. REID — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, the manager of this bill is going to be the 
chair of the Foreign Operations Subcommittee. Senator Byrd has 
designated Senator Leahy to manage this bill. During the hour that is 
prior to this cloture vote, we have a few people who want to speak; 
maybe not all the time will be used. I hope during the evening people 
will be considerate of talking when they have to. These issues are 
fairly well pronounced now. We know what they are. We have a domestic 
spending bill that has been worked out through the House and the 
Senate, Democrats and Republicans. We have the White House which has 
been involved in that. That part should be fairly easy. It may not be 
everything we want, it may be more than what some want, but it should 
not take a lot of time.

We have three amendments relating to the debate on the war funding. 
One is the McConnell amendment which will try to increase war funding 
up to $70 billion out of the $196 billion the President has asked for. 
We also are going to have an amendment offered by Senator Feingold that 
will deal with a matter we brought before the Senate on other occasions 
which calls for our troops to be back by the middle of May of this next 
year, leaving troops to take care of counterterrorism, force 
protection, and training the Iraqis to a limited extent. Then we have 
an amendment which will be offered by Senators Levin and Reed that will 
call for additional funding for Iraq, but in addition to that, it will 
have some accountability that is now not in existence.

Mr. President, as the majority leader, I designate Senator Leahy as 
the controller of our time during the debate on this matter.