# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3288, CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `b0f1f9037b7be2fff8e4733c9d8179db`
`Mrs. LOWEY â€” 10 December 2009`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. I thank the chairman for his important work on this bill.

I am very pleased to present Division F of the fiscal year 2010 
omnibus, which includes $48.764 billion in appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs. At 
$1.235 billion, or 2 percent below fiscal year 2009 enacted levels 
including supplemental appropriations, and $3.28 billion below the 
President's fiscal year 2010 request, these funds support the U.S. 
diplomatic and development priorities, a cornerstone of U.S. national 
security.

To address security imperatives, it includes $4.5 billion to help 
stabilize, strengthen, and rebuild Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq; in 
conjunction with funding in the 2009 supplemental, full funding for our 
commitments to allies and partners in the Middle East, including a 
total of $2.775 billion in FMF for Israel, $1.3 billion for Egypt, $300 
billion for Jordan; a provision to prevent the Export-Import Bank from 
entering into any deals with foreign companies that significantly 
contribute to Iran's refined petroleum industry and gives the Secretary 
of State authority to exempt countries cooperating closely with the 
United States to stop Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons; $873.6 
million for counternarcotics and alternate development programs in 
Latin America.

This bill continues the congressional commitment to increase 
diplomatic and development capacity with resources to hire, train, 
support, and protect 700 new Department of State personnel and 300 new 
USAID personnel.

The bill increases funding for key long-term development priorities, 
including $7.7 billion for global health activities including $5.7 
billion for global HIV/AIDS; $1.1 billion to improve access to quality 
basic and higher education; $1.1 billion for food security and 
agricultural development; over $1.25 billion in bilateral and 
multilateral assistance for clean energy, biodiversity, and climate 
change initiatives; and $315 million to expand access to safe water and 
sanitation; and $2.57 billion for refugee and disaster assistance.

Finally, to improve accountability and oversight, the bill provides 
$149 million for the Inspectors General of the Department of State and 
USAID and the Special Inspectors General for Iraq and Afghanistan 
Reconstruction.