# None
## `b0f4e01373311ee278967821b75a3ef3`
`Mr. LYNCH — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman from California 
for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is important that the American people 
understand what exactly is going on here. This is not about the Clinton 
administration. It is not about Blackwater.

I just want to touch on a few facts here. Number one, $450 billion 
has already been committed by this President and his administration 
toward the war in Iraq. Recently, the President has come back to us 
with a request for an additional $150 billion also to be spent in Iraq 
on, among other things, schools, roads, bridges, power plants, water 
treatment facilities, not in the United States, but in Iraq.

Now, Congress, our responsibility here, we have the power of the 
purse. The power of the purse is not simply the power to open the 
purse, but it also includes the duty and the obligation to inspect 
appropriations and to inquire whether or not this country, this 
government, who has had the benefit of, if the bill goes through, it 
will be $600 billion, we have the duty to inquire whether that 
government is corrupt.

We received several reports, one from the Special Inspector General 
for Iraq Reconstruction, Mr. Stuart Bowen, who indicates there is 
widespread corruption. There is a commission headed by General James 
Jones, United States Marine Corps, indicating there is widespread 
corruption in Iraq among the government, and again by Comptroller 
General David Walker, who indicated, again, there is widespread 
corruption in Iraq.

We have requested, in response to these reports, testimony and 
documents from the State Department. They have said ''no.'' They have 
said, no, they would not testify; they would not give us documents. 
Chairman Waxman had to join with the committee and we issued four 
subpoenas. They were joined in by my respected colleague from Virginia 
(Mr. Davis) who agreed that he would support the subpoenas, as well. 
However, they did not give us all the documents. The witnesses came 
forward, but refused to testify as to the level of corruption in Iraq. 
They have denied Congress the access to the information we need.

There's a strong irony here; it is inescapable to me. The State 
Department has retroactively classified two reports by its own 
officials regarding Iraqi corruption. Do you know, it is ironic, the 
name of the office inside the U.S. Embassy that wrote those reports? It 
is the Office of Accountability and Transparency. They have refused to 
give us information. They are the ones who are supposed to be teaching 
the Iraqi Government how to be more transparent, how to be more 
accountable to their own government.

What about the other report the State Department classified, 
basically has hidden from the American people? Who issued that one? The 
Government Accountability Office. The statement retroactively 
classified that one, too. If this were not so serious, it would be 
laughable. These offices were set up with the express mission of 
calling the government to account, not only the Government of Iraq but 
also the Government of the United States. This effort to classify this 
information has been done for the express purpose of saving the Maliki 
government from embarrassment because of the allegations of corruption 
regarding their officials.

So here we are supposed to be exporting democracy, but what we are 
doing here now is covering up for a corrupt government at the expense 
of the American people. And the irony runs deep. The Bush 
administration says we are in Iraq to spread democracy and the rule of 
law; but, instead, it appears that we are, indeed, complicit with the 
corruption that is going on in the Maliki government.

I question how it makes America look not only to Iraqis but to our 
own citizens. I believe it does render us complicit. It harms our core 
mission. It does not win the hearts and minds of the Iraqis. It loses 
them. America must lead by action and by example, not by suppressing 
public discussing of corruption in government.

