# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `b0f731892d8498c99f19c05db6d7a55e`
`Mr. DORGAN — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I wish to say a word this morning about a 
column that was printed in the Washington Post this morning on the op-
ed page that was taking the majority leader of the Senate to task, and 
doing so, I think, unfairly and certainly inaccurately.

The column criticizes the majority leader for saying the Senate's 
time was ''too precious'' to expend on what would have been unlimited 
debate on an unlimited number of Republican amendments to the 
immigration bill.


The intent of this column in the newspaper is to say that the majority 
leader was responsible for failing to allow consideration of the 
immigration bill.

I don't know what Mr. Will, who wrote this column, was watching last 
week. I know Paris Hilton was being taken back and forth between her 
house and the sheriff's office and court and jail, apparently, and the 
country must have been riveted on that story. But C-SPAN would have 
availed a columnist of a pretty good look at what the Senate was doing, 
and not just for last week but for 2 weeks the Senate dealt with the 
subject of immigration.

I happen to come to a different conclusion on that subject than the 
majority leader. I know who supports that legislation, and he has 
supported that legislation. I watched the last day of consideration 
when the majority leader came to the floor and offered a proposal where 
each side would get four amendments. That was objected to. He then 
proposed that each side would get three amendments. That was objected 
to. Each side would get two amendments. That was objected to.

I don't have the foggiest idea why Mr. Will would write a column 
suggesting somehow the majority leader was responsible for that not 
going forward after 2 full weeks of debate and being blocked in every 
circumstance of having additional amendments considered.

But what brought me to the Senate floor is not my support of 
consideration or further consideration of the immigration bill, but the 
charge that the majority leader was somehow responsible for scuttling 
it. That is not the case, No. 1. And, No. 2, Mr. Will says in his 
column that, in fact, it was taken off the floor in order to bring up 
legislation that would quintuple the mandated use of corn-based 
ethanol, apparently upset about the fact that we have an energy bill on 
the floor at this point that would dramatically increase the use of 
biofuels, corn-based ethanol and also cellulosic and other approaches 
because we believe we need to find somehow, some way, some point, 
someday to become less dependent on foreign sources of oil.

Over 60 percent of the oil we use in this country we obtain from 
troubled parts of the world overseas--60 percent of it and it is 
growing: the Saudis, the Kuwaitis, Venezuela, Iraq, and the list goes 
on. If tomorrow, God forbid, somehow that source of oil would be shut 
off to our economy, this economy, this American economy would be flat 
on its back. We need to become less dependent on foreign sources of 
oil. We use 70 percent of the oil we bring into this country in our 
vehicles. We run them through the carburetors and fuel injectors of our 
vehicles.

We are doing a lot with this legislation. We haven't had an increase 
in the efficiency standards for vehicles for 25 years, and the auto 
companies, I know, object to that. They objected to seatbelts. They 
objected to airbags. They have given us better cupholders. They have 
given us better music systems. They have given us keyless entry. But 
they haven't in 25 years given us greater efficiency, and they should. 
That is in the bill.

We also increase the supply of alternative energy with renewable 
fuels called the biofuels, ethanol, corn-based ethanol; yes, cellulosic 
ethanol, yes. If Mr. Will and others think that is irrelevant, they 
miss the point. This country doesn't have a choice. We must find a 
route to be less dependent on foreign sources of oil.

One approach, in my judgment, is to make the vehicles more efficient. 
Another approach is to produce renewable fuels. I was the author of the 
only standard that exists for renewable fuels, a 7.5-billion-gallon-a-
year standard. We did that 2 years ago. I think we are at 7.5 billion 
gallons already. We were hoping to get there by 2012. Now we have a 
bill that will take us to 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels. As a 
measurement, we use 145 billion gallons of fuel a year. We want to go 
to 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels that we can grow in our farm 
fields, among other things.


It is easy to write a column, I guess. If the ink is inexpensive, you 
can say anything you want. This is not an accurate reflection of two 
things. No. 1, it is not an accurate reflection of the immigration 
bill, and it is not an accurate reflection, in my judgment, of the 
merits of biofuels to extend America's energy supply.

While I am up, I want to make one more point. There are others who 
talked about the amendment I offered to the immigration bill suggesting 
that somehow it would have been responsible for killing the bill. I 
want to describe it very briefly.

The immigration bill was put together in a room by a group of people 
who said: Here is what we think we should do to deal with immigration. 
The proposal was put together in a room by some 14 Senators, which 
meant that 86 others were not involved. So the product was brought to 
the floor of the Senate, and we were told: If you have a different 
idea, the group of 14 are going to oppose it. That group of 14, or 
whatever it was, creating a grand compromise, they had a responsibility 
to oppose anything that the rest of the 86 Members of the Senate 
believed could add to or improve the bill.

Among other things, the bill provided a temporary worker provision 
which said there are millions of people outside this country--400,000 a 
year originally, 2 years on, 1 year back to their home country, 2 years 
back, 1 year back to their home country, 2 years back a third time. My 
colleague from New Mexico reduced that to 200,000 a year. But it was 
ultimately the same circumstance. It would have been a massive number 
of new people who don't now live here who would have come in and taken 
jobs in this country. I did not support that guest worker program. I 
believe at least we should sunset it after 5 years to evaluate the 
consequences, what impact it has had on our country. Has it had an 
impact of downward pressure on wages, which I think it will have, which 
I don't support? Has it had an impact of bringing in a lot of 
immigrants who will not leave afterward and, therefore, be here without 
legal authorization? If so, should we consider that issue and how to 
deal with it?

I think these are very complicated issues, and the guest worker 
program should be sunsetted after 5 years. My amendment won by one 
vote, and then it was as if the sky was falling. This is going to kill 
the bill, they say. I don't agree with that at all. I just don't agree.

As I have indicated many times, they brought that out here suggesting 
that anything that was done that would change it would kill the bill. 
Again, it is the argument we hear all the time: the lose thread on the 
cheap sweater; pull the thread, the arms fall off.

I come back to this point that I think the column today is unfair to 
the majority leader. It unfairly suggests that he is the responsible 
party for not moving forward on immigration. We spent 2 full weeks on 
immigration. It wasn't incomplete because of anything the majority 
leader did. He is the one who brought it to the floor in the first 
place.

Second, it is unfortunate--certainly well within the columnist's 
right, but unfortunate--to suggest that somehow renewable fuels cannot 
play a significant part in this country's energy future. That is a 
significant part of this bill. Senator Bingaman, Senator Domenici, 
myself, and many others have worked on renewable fuels for a long 
while. We set a standard that I think is going to be very exciting for 
this country to meet, and I think it will reduce our dependence on 
foreign sources of oil, will make us much less dependent than we are 
now, and I think it will advance this country's security and energy 
interests.

I am pleased to be a part of that effort and support it and felt 
especially that I ought to say a word in response to this column that I 
think unfairly treats the issue of biofuels.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.