---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `b100b3ebd99ec8f684b7bbcc7f3887d7`
`Mr. SKELTON — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support for the Responsible 
Redeployment from Iraq Act.

Mr. Speaker, out of all of this Iraq business, there's one star, and 
that star, as every American should know and appreciate, is the young 
American in uniform. That is the purpose of this legislation, and I 
take this opportunity to compliment those who serve our country 
wherever they may be, those in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere in the 
world or here within our United States. I'm proud of them. And they are 
our stars.

Mr. Speaker, we have been engaged in Iraq since March of 2003. And in 
hearing discussion on the rule, it's obvious that some people wish to 
confuse the effort in Afghanistan with the effort in Iraq. They are 
separate and distinct.

The war in Afghanistan is something that we needed to do. The Taliban 
government gave sanctuary to the al Qaeda terrorists in that country of 
Afghanistan, and we did the right thing by going in there.

The war in Iraq is one of choice. There have been discussions and 
difficulty and debate over how we got there, but we are there. But 
people should know that the insurgency in Iraq and the subsequent 
sectarian violence between the Shiite and Sunni is a different and 
distinct war from that in Afghanistan.

You know, in history, we learn from the past. Strategic mistakes have 
been made, and we're supposed to learn from that. And we have to go to 
our revolution in 1776, when the British General Howell did not follow 
up his victories against George Washington's troops on Long Island. 
Consequently, George Washington's troops were able to encamp at Valley 
Forge and later attack successfully Trenton and New Jersey. That was a 
strategic mistake that allowed our revolution to be successful.

Lee's invasion of the north, the battles of Antietam and Gettysburg, 
were strategic mistakes of the Confederacy.

And, Mr. Speaker, sadly, we have seen not only strategic mistakes in 
Iraq, we have seen irretrievable strategic mistakes; no plan for the 
aftermath, the initial victory, the number of troops was not as General 
Shinseki recommended, far too few; the unguarded caches of weapons and 
ammunition, allowing the insurgency to have free access to them; the 
dismissal of the Iraqi Army, rather than giving them a pay check and a 
shovel, the closing of the Iraqi industries, the deBaathification, 
which put thousands of people out of work, including thousands of 
school teachers. These irretrievable mistakes made it very difficult 
for us to have any sort of positive success in that country.

We hear the call, well, wait until September. There'll be another 
report. Well, we have been in Iraq for four Septembers. There is the 
old song that those of us with a little gray in our hair remember as 
the September song. And one line from that song of yesteryear, ''we 
haven't got time for the waiting game.'' That's where we are now. We 
don't have time for the waiting game.

The purpose of this is a matter of readiness. It's a matter of 
national security. It's a matter that we must face now, or else the 
strain and stretch on our ground forces, particularly the Army and, of 
course, the Marines, will be beyond repair for many, many years.

It's a matter of strategic importance that we redeploy from Iraq in a 
responsible manner, and that's what this bill does. And we are able to 
keep our forces strong.

We never know what's going to happen. The last 30 years, we've had 12 
military contingencies in which our Armed Forces have been engaged, 
four


of which have been major in size; none of them predictable. We don't 
know what the future holds. But for national security interests, we 
need to have a ready force, particularly our ground forces, which are 
being strained so very much now.

Further, it is important that we pass the security of Iraq over to 
the Iraqi government and to the security forces of that country. We 
cannot hold their hand forever. They must step up to the plate and take 
over their own security. It's important that that happen.

This bill, Mr. Speaker, initially sets forth a sense of Congress that 
the authorization for use of military force against Iraq was enacted 
into law in October of 2002, and that the government of Iraq that was 
in power at that time has been removed and it's leader tried, convicted 
and executed by a freely elected government of Iraq; and further, that 
the government of Iraq, the current government of Iraq does not pose a 
threat to the United States, and for more than 4 years, the efforts of 
our Armed Forces have been valiant in their work and in their combat in 
that country.

We need a responsible redeployment. This legislation gives it to us. 
It states that the Secretary of Defense shall commence the reduction of 
the number of armed forces in that country beginning not later than 120 
days after the date of enactment. It also states that such redeployment 
shall be complete to a limited presence which is spelled out in the 
bill, not later than April 1, 2008.

The question before us, are we, as a country, any safer now than we 
were when we went into Iraq in March of 2003? What has it done for the 
security of our country?

We see the sectarian violence, on top of the insurgency, the 
insurgency being aided by foreign fighters, many of them al Qaeda, and 
consequently, we know that the end must be done by the Iraqi security 
forces. That's what we are trying to do in this legislation; 
responsible redeployment of the American forces, cause the Iraqi troops 
and forces to take over their own security, and restore the readiness 
to our ground forces here in the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

