---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `b1054e24ecc36f98ae7c3542648b887b`
`Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS — 16 May 2007`

---


Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS. Madam Speaker, I was absent from the House of 
Representatives last week due to the birth of my son, I would like to 
state how I would have voted on the following pieces of legislation if 
I had been able to be present:

H.R. 1873, to reauthorize the programs and activities of the Small 
Business Administration relating to procurement, and for other 
purposes, rollcall No. 319, ''yea''; rollcall No. 320, ''yea''; 
rollcall No. 321, ''yea''; rollcall No. 322, ''yea''; rollcall No. 323, 
''yea'';

H.R. 1684 To authorize appropriations for the Department of Homeland 
Security for fiscal year 2008, and for other purposes, rollcall No. 
314, ''nay''; rollcall No. 315, ''nay''; rollcall No. 316, ''nay''; 
rollcall No. 317, ''yea''; rollcall No. 318, ''yea.''

Ordering the Previous Question for H.R. 2082, Intelligence 
Authorization Act, rollcall No. 324, ''nay.''

Providing for the consideration of H.R. 2082, Intelligence 
Authorization Act, rollcall No. 325, ''nay.''

Providing for the consideration of H.R. 2237, H.R. 2206, and H.R. 
2207, on ordering the previous question, rollcall No. 326, ''nay.''

Providing for the consideration of H.R. 2237, H.R. 2206, and H.R. 
2207, on agreeing to the resolution rollcall No. 327, ''nay''; on 
holding a secret session rollcall No. 328, ''yea.''

H.R. 2237, to provide for the redeployment of United States Armed 
Forces and defense contractors from Iraq, motion to recommit, rollcall 
No. 329, ''yea''; on passage, rollcall No. 330, ''nay''; on holding a 
secret session rollcall No. 331, ''yea.''

H.R. 2206, making emergency supplemental appropriations for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, and for other purposes, rollcall 
No. 332, ''yea''; rollcall No. 333, ''nay''; on motion to table the 
motion to hold a secret session, rollcall No. 334, ''nay.''

H.R. 2207, making supplemental appropriations for agricultural and 
other emergency assistance for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2007, on motion to recommit with instructions, rollcall No. 335, 
''nay''; on passage rollcall No. 336, ''yea.''

H.R. 2082, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2008 for 
intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States 
Government, the Community Management Account, and the Central 
Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other 
purposes, rollcall No. 337, ''yea''; rollcall No. 338, ''yea''; 
rollcall No. 339, ''nay''; motion to recommit, rollcall No. 340, 
''yea''; final passage, rollcall No. 341, ''nay.''
