# IMMIGRATION REFORM
## `b1096b36b4e17baefb57ff3a647ac063`
`Mr. BURR — 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I have the deepest respect for the Senator 
from Massachusetts, and this is one Senator who makes no accusations 
that this is payback. I proudly say the Senator from Massachusetts 
believed before that this is the right thing, he believes it today, and 
he will believe it tomorrow; and no one could convince me he could 
change his mind. It is refreshing in this institution to find somebody 
who is so entrenched that the press, public opinion, or anything cannot 
move him.

But acknowledging that about Senator Kennedy, I have to express my 
strong disagreement from the standpoint that he says this is easy to 
do. I hope it is not easy to do. I hope it is not easy in America, in a 
democracy, to do away with the private ballot. I believe it is 
something we cherish, something we protect, something we understand is 
part of the tenets of democracy.

I think it is important that we look back. We have heard a lot about 
where we are. But how did we get to the point that we have a system 
where if 30 percent of the employees sign a sheet to have an election--
30 percent, not 50 percent--in fact, they get that right. It


was in 1947 when they changed the National Labor Relations Act. Why did 
they change it? Because through the 1930s and 1940s, there was 
widespread intimidation by the labor unions on workers and on 
employers. Rather than to have that intimidation that mobilized one's 
commitment to unionize a business, they rewrote the law and they 
provided the right of a private ballot in this infant democracy--what 
we did for elections we adopted for employees, a secret way for every 
employee not to be bullied or intimidated as to how they wanted to be 
represented by their employer or by a union.

Employee Free Choice Act. That sounds easy, and I think that is why 
he suggested it is. The reality is Americans will give up the private 
ballot. But the Employee Free Choice Act violates that tenet of our 
democracy because it would prevent every worker's vote from counting. I 
will say that again. It would prevent every worker's vote from 
counting. We have had battles over the last 10 years in this country 
about every vote counting. Not only would it prevent every vote from 
being counted, it would deny the right to vote to some employees, 
because now just with 50 percent plus one additional worker there would 
be no need for a vote. He is right. You would enter into a 10-day 
process that would accelerate, in all likelihood, to mediation because 
you have a union that shot for the stars and an employer that can only 
pay X. The history of the country is that we split the difference and 
the employer decides if they can even stay in business.

Under current law, the most frequent form of union organizing is a 
private ballot, with 30 percent of the employees signing their name on 
a dotted line, which initiates an election process where employees will 
decide by private ballot as to whether the union represents them. I 
cannot think of anything more fair than 30 percent initiating and 50 
plus 1 making the final decision. In Winston-Salem in the past year and 
a half, I had a good friend whose company was forced to have a ballot--
or at least they pushed it as far as they could. You see, at the end of 
the day, I am not sure they had 30 percent of the employees sign. But 
if you had seen what happened in that community, if you had seen the 
posters that were put on telephone poles about the owner of this 
business, the fliers mailed to his neighbors--it had nothing to do with 
his business or employees. It was a character assassination on the 
individual who owned the business because the labor unions thought if 
they could break his character, he would give in to a vote and they 
would have a chance of organizing his business.

The great news out of that story is he didn't break; he fought them 
and he won. In fact, they didn't have 30 percent who signed. They 
didn't have an election because the employees decided they didn't want 
to be represented by the union. I can tell you that in the town I live 
in, they make pretty good money. They may not make as much as they 
would like to, but they make as much as the industry they represent can 
bear and that the town they live in can afford to pay.

When we talk about intimidation, I assure you that there is 
intimidation against the employer. It is happening every day in 
communities across this country. If there are any examples of what I 
saw as to what would happen if we did away with the private ballot, I 
would hate to see what would happen to employees in this country if 
unions had the ability to bully and intimidate them into agreeing to 
sign on because there was no longer the secrecy of a private ballot.

In the last 10 years, we have seen increased effort by unions to seek 
union recognition outside of the secret ballot process already--the so-
called use of card check. It has become a critical component of big 
labor's organizing strategy. Card check circumvents workers' rights to 
private ballot to union certification elections. The legislation would 
instead force workers into a union once union organizers have obtained 
those 50 percent plus 1 signature.

This invites worker intimidation and character assassination by the 
union. I believe all votes should be counted. Under card check, that 
would not happen. Many individuals will be denied access to vote. Many 
votes will go uncounted because no votes would take place.

Do you find it odd that in 2001, the authors of this bill demanded 
private ballots in Mexico? As recently as 2001, the cosponsors of card 
check legislation urged Mexico to guarantee secret ballots to their 
workers voting in union-recognized campaigns. So they will propose 
private ballots in Mexico, but they won't support their continued 
existence in the United States. Unions know private ballots prevent 
coercion when it comes to making a choice about unions. Even the AFL-
CIO has called the secret ballot the surest means for avoiding 
decisions that are the result of group pressure and not individual 
decisions. That statement was made in a legal brief regarding union 
decertification elections.

The Employee Free Choice Act is, quite frankly, antiworker 
legislation. Unions should not be enhancing their power by weakening 
workers' rights. I cannot think of a more important right than the 
right to vote, the right to a secret ballot, the right to make sure 
that your vote is cast, that it is counted, and that it counts. The 
authors of this bill suggest that we throw that away.

I will end with this story. We all had the opportunity--''all'' 
meaning the entire world--to see the first free elections in Iraq in a 
number of decades. We saw people with purple fingers acknowledging the 
fact that they had risked their lives to travel to a polling place to 
cast a private ballot for a slate of candidates to elect their 
representatives.

In my office today is a ballot from one of those polling places in 
Iraq. It is framed next to a flag that a pilot, who patrolled over that 
polling site protecting those Iraqi people, brought back and was told 
by the Iraqis: Give this to a Member of the U.S. Senate who represents 
you and tell them how much it means to us.

If this is, in fact, how we see democracies emerge and the importance 
of an individual's right to vote, to elect their representatives, to 
decide their future, and yet we, the strongest democracy in the world, 
throw out private ballots, disregard this important piece of democracy 
because it is easy, if we neglect history and we forget what happened 
in 1930 and 1940 and why we changed it in 1947, and we fall prey to 
what seems easy, then what example do we set for the rest of the world? 
How hard will people fight in the future for democracy and freedom? 
Will people be willing to risk their lives when they see the ability to 
weigh in on who represents them? I seriously doubt it.

I think the worst example we can send to the world is that there is a 
piece of American democracy where private ballots are no longer needed, 
where we just disregard that part of the rights of the American people.

I am hopeful that tomorrow we will vote not to proceed, that this 
legislation will not be considered, and we can assure the American 
people we have protected their rights with the private ballots and not 
accept what is easy, and that is to throw it away.

I yield the floor.