---
---

# None
## `b110d0c067faddf8a319720d0fde58b2`
`Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor the life and 
service of Maj. L. Eduardo Caraveo, who was among the 13


killed in the tragic shootings at Fort Hood, Texas, earlier this month.

Maj. Caraveo, a resident of Woodbridge, Va., was a Medical Service 
Corps Officer in the U.S. Army Reserves who had arrived at Fort Hood 
just one day prior to the shootings. He was preparing to deploy to 
Afghanistan, where he was to provide stress counseling to deployed 
service members.

He was active in his adopted home of Prince William County, where he 
spent time counseling prison inmates. He also offered his services for 
anger management training and couples therapy.

A native of Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, Maj. Caraveo came to the United 
States as a teenager and became the first in his family to graduate 
from college. He received his undergraduate degree from the University 
of Texas at El Paso and earned a doctorate in psychology from the 
University of Arizona.

According to local news accounts, he was a generous, giving friend 
and father who enjoyed spending time playing in the yard with his 
children.

Maj. Caraveo is survived by his wife, Angela Rivera; their son and 
her two daughters; three children from a previous marriage and six 
siblings.

Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring the 
remarkable life and service of Maj. Caraveo and the lives of the twelve 
others killed on that tragic day at Fort Hood. Their brave service, and 
that of their families, will never be forgotten and we extend our 
sympathies to them.
