# PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `b111b5a3eda0846f4de91aa2928f5299`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I would like to remind my 
colleagues who are so hell bent to get the training troops that we 
have, 230 U.S. troops, helping with the training in Pakistan, out of 
Pakistan, I'd like to remind them that on 9/11 we were attacked by al 
Qaeda terrorists, whose head was Osama bin Laden. And Osama bin Laden 
has been going back and forth across the Afghani/Pakistani border. And 
there has been training going on with terrorists there, and in Yemen, 
to try to foment more terrorism and to try to get them to move toward 
more attacks on the United States of America.

This is a war that we're fighting to protect America, as well as make 
sure the entire region over there is stable.

Pakistan is a nuclear power. If the Taliban and al Qaeda are 
successful in taking over that country, can you imagine what the rest 
of the world would have to deal with with them having the nuclear 
capability that they would have? That's one of the things we have to 
talk about.

And without the training, I'd like to point this out, without the 
training of our troops that are in Pakistan as trainers, the 230 of 
them, the money that we're using to fight this war against the Taliban 
and al Qaeda would not be used as effectively and as efficiently 
because those people have to be trained to use the technology that 
we're giving them. And you have to have somebody over there that can 
train them and teach them about what this equipment can and will do.

Now, let me just make a couple of points. First of all, if we cut 
military ties to Pakistan, it's crazy. The border between Pakistan and 
Afghanistan just goes all over the place. Nobody can really tell you 
when you cross the border and go back and forth. So you're going to 
have some mistakes made in going after the Taliban or al Qaeda 
terrorists in that region.

And for us to cut aid and assistance to Pakistan at a time when we're 
trying to win the war and stop terrorism in Afghanistan would be, in my 
opinion, insane. We need to continue to work with Pakistan, not only 
for the stability of that country, but to make sure we stop the 
terrorist training that's taking place.

Now, there's no question we have some differences, some policy 
differences with the Pakistani Government, but we have differences with 
a lot of our friends. But we still support them, especially when it's 
in our national interest to do so. And we are working with them, and 
helping with the training is extremely important, as I stated a moment 
ago.

And as I said before, the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan has 
mountains and valleys, and it's extremely difficult to know where those 
borders are. And we must not allow the enemy to have sanctuary. That's 
why it's important for us to train their troops to be able to go after 
the Taliban and al Qaeda, because if Osama bin Laden can go into 
Pakistan with impunity, if the terrorists can go in there with 
impunity, if they can go back and forth across that border, we can 
never win the war.

To say they can have sanctuary in Pakistan is like saying to a 
football team, win the game, but don't go beyond the 50-yard line. You 
cannot let


the enemy have sanctuary. If we didn't learn anything from Vietnam, we 
should have learned that.

This is an entire breeding ground for terrorism, that border between 
Pakistan and Afghanistan, part of Pakistan and all of Afghanistan. And 
because we've been putting so much heat on the Taliban and al Qaeda, 
they have been moving their training grounds outside of Afghanistan 
into Yemen and into Pakistan, and that's why we must not allow them to 
have sanctuary.

And another thing I would like to talk about that has not been 
mentioned is the rules of engagement. When I was coming in today, I 
heard on the radio an Afghanistan American soldier who had just gotten 
back from Afghanistan. And he said, the rules of engagement are crazy. 
He said, he'll go into a combat situation and he'll have an enemy 
target, and they'll say, you can't fire on that target unless you get 
approval from your commanding officer. And he says many times the 
soldiers who are put in that position will get killed before they get 
the approval to fire on their targets.


We need to change those rules of engagement so we can go after the 
enemy, where they are and get the job done. Why should we handcuff our 
troops when they're in a combat situation? It makes absolutely no 
sense. That's a recipe for disaster.

So if I were talking to the President or General Petraeus I would 
say, let the troops do their job. Don't give sanctuary to the enemy. 
Help the Pakistanis fight them, train the Pakistanis over there. And 
give our troops the ability, when they hit a target, to be able to go 
after that target, to knock that target out, and not wait for orders 
that might endanger their very lives. That's a good way to get all of 
our troops killed.

We are in a war, not only in that area that's going to decide what's 
going to go on in the entire Middle East with Iran and Afghanistan and 
Pakistan, but we're in a war that may very well come back to the United 
States and hurt us a great deal.

We cannot let the terrorists have the ability, with impunity, to be 
trained and be ready to attack the United States again or any of our 
allies. And that's why we, and our allies, must work together to make 
sure we stop the terrorists from having the ability to feel safe in 
their training practices in Pakistan, in Afghanistan, Yemen or wherever 
they are.

This is a war. And it's a war for the survival of many parts of the 
world and, I believe, including the United States. And so we must do 
whatever is necessary to win that war.