# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES AND CONDEMNING RUSH LIMBAUGH'S ATTACK ON
## `b113d1ab82ca86dd86fd414a11597887`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Madam Speaker, today I am introducing a 
resolution to affirm that our soldiers have the freedom to speak about 
the war in Iraq. As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I 
believe it is important to express opposition to the view that American 
soldiers who do not embrace the policies of the Bush Administration 
lack the skills to do the job of protecting their country or lack the 
willingness to make the ultimate sacrifice in service of their country.

Madam Speaker, as a general principle it should not be the business 
of Congress to condemn or applaud the publicly expressed views of 
private citizens. If we took note of every stupid, ignorant or asinine 
utterance in the public square we would have little time to focus on 
the important issues facing this nation.

Moreover, I believe firmly in the right of every American to speak 
his or her mind freely. Even the most outrageous and offensive speech 
is, and should be, protected by the first amendment of our 
constitution. Our citizens should be free to express their political 
views without expecting Congress to act as a kind of imperious censor 
or arbiter of what is acceptable, intelligent or in good taste. Instead 
of passing resolutions condemning the political views of others, I 
think the preferred approach for Congress as an institution is to stay 
above the partisan fray and let individual Members express their 
personal, as opposed to institutional, views about the free speech of 
others.

There are times, however, when I believe this body should speak 
collectively--and that is in those rare circumstances when the speech 
of prominent Americans, media personalities or political organizations 
is so outrageous and divisive that it commands the attention of every 
Member. We can respect the first amendment rights of others without 
giving up our own right to speak out freely and collectively in this 
body.

In this regard, I believe remarks by a prominent conservative talk-
show personality, Mr. Rush Limbaugh, deserve a rebuke from the 
Congress. Democrats and Republicans alike should find his attack on our 
men and women in uniform both offensive and deplorable.

Specifically, Mr. Limbaugh suggested that soldiers who oppose the 
Bush Administration's policy in Iraq are ''phony soldiers.'' The clear 
implication of his remarks leaves no doubt. Mr. Limbaugh used his 
syndicated radio program to impugn the character of those American 
servicemen and women who have spoken out against the policies of the 
Bush Administration.

I believe that Congress should make clear that our soldiers, whatever 
their rank and whatever their views, deserve to be honored for their 
service. I believe Congress should make clear that Mr. Limbaugh's use 
of the term ''phony soldiers'' is beneath contempt. I believe Congress 
should remind Mr. Limbaugh that the men and women who serve in our


military do so, not as Republicans, conservatives, Democrats or 
liberals, but as Americans.

Madam Speaker, it is not my intention to advance a partisan message 
with this resolution. Nor is it my intention that Congress waste time 
and effort in exposing partisan hypocrisy, however tempting that goal 
may be.

It is my intention, however, to make clear to the men and women 
serving in uniform, many of whom are risking their lives on foreign 
soil to defend our civil liberties, that it is not acceptable for 
anyone to accuse them of being ''phony'' or false patriots because 
their political views may differ from those of their commander-in-
chief.

To suggest that a soldier's sacrifice is somehow made less worthy by 
expressing his or her opinion betrays a view of military service so 
cramped as to be unrecognizable to most Americans--Republicans or 
Democrats. I can say with full confidence that that is not the opinion 
held by those of us who serve on the Armed Services Committee. Congress 
should make clear that it rejects this narrow view as well.

That is the underlying purpose of this resolution, and I ask my 
colleagues to join me in embracing the underlying message.
