# DWELL TIME
## `b11e22cc16673ef36ce94bfbdf73fb42`
`Mr. DURBIN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I rise in support of the Webb amendment. 
What is the Senator from Virginia, a Marine Corps veteran from Vietnam, 
trying to do? It is actually easy to state. He wants to make sure that 
when our troops are deployed, they have at least as much time home 
between deployments as they do the length of the deployment. If they 
are deployed for a year, they will have a year at home before they are 
deployed again. If they are deployed 15 months, they will have 15 
months at home before they are deployed again.

Madam President, you have been to Iraq and I have been there, too--
three times. I do not profess to be an expert on the military. That is 
not a field of my training or expertise, but I talk to those who are. 
The last time I visited Iraq, I went to Patrol Base Murray, south of 
Baghdad 12 miles, part of the surge, the Third Infantry Division, Fort 
Stewart, GA, and saw the Illinois soldiers and others. I had a little 
lunch with them.

As I was starting to leave, one of the officers came over to me and 
spoke to me privately. Do you know what he told me? He said: Senator, 
15 months is too long. These troops have to be on guard every moment of 
every day for roadside bombs and snipers and other dangers.

He said: After 12 months, I work so hard to keep them on their toes 
so they come home safe and protect the soldiers who are with them. 
Fifteen months is too long. He told me: I am a career soldier. My wife 
knew what we were getting into long ago. So I leave, but it is tough on 
my family.

He said: When I left Fort Stewart, GA, my daughter was in the sixth 
grade. When I get back home, she will be in the eighth grade. I will 
have missed a year in her life. That is the price we pay.

He said: These young soldiers with babies at home, they are e-mailing 
their wives every single day. They are hearing how the babies are 
growing up and the problems the family is having. At the end of the 
year, they can't wait to go home, and we tell them: Give us 3 more 
months.

I said: What about the 12 months in between deployments?

He said: It is not enough; 12 months is not enough time to 
reconstitute our unit, retrain them, equip them, give them time with 
their families so they can get their lives back together. Twelve months 
is not enough.

I said: How much time do you need?

He said: Twice that. Give us 2 years. That is what it takes.

That is the reality of this war on the ground. So when we hear the 
arguments being made by Senators that somehow we should not, as a 
Senate, be sticking our nose into the business of how they manage the 
military overseas, I am sorry, but that is part of our constitutional 
obligation. We do not just declare the war and send the money; we have 
responsibilities that reach far beyond that.

Over the years, Congress has spoken to the number of troops our 
country will have. It has spoken to whether those troops can be 
deployed overseas. It has passed laws restricting Presidents from 
sending troops overseas


without at least 4 months or 6 months of training. We have restricted 
the roll of women in the military. Time and again, Congress has spoken 
under its constitutional authority to make certain our military is 
treated properly. That is part of my responsibility as a Senator. It is 
part of every Senator's responsibility.

Calling this micromanagement is unfair to our troops. Our soldiers 
and their families are making more sacrifices than any of us serving in 
this Chamber today. They are risking their lives at this very moment. 
All they ask for is a little more time to be with their families, a 
little more time to get their unit combat ready before it is sent out 
again.

Senator Webb knows this story because he lived it in Vietnam as a 
marine. He knows it as a father of a soldier who is in Iraq today. We 
should know it too, and we should understand something as well. It is 
true, as someone once said, war is hell, but politicians should not 
make it any worse, and we are making it worse when we push these 
soldiers to the limit.

Look at the numbers coming back to us: Divorce rates among our 
soldiers now reaching record highs, suicide rates higher than any time 
since Vietnam, cash incentives to bring people into the military and 
keep them at a record level of $10,000 and $20,000, waiving the 
requirements so we can fill the ranks with people who have not 
graduated from high school or have some criminal records. These are the 
realities of the Army today.

For the President to stand and boldly say, ''I am sending the troops 
into battle'' is to ignore the reality. Many of our warriors are weary. 
Having fought the good fight and stood up for this country, they 
deserve for this Senate to stand up for them and adopt the Webb 
amendment.