---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `b124a39032eb4c24bf242950b345ebc1`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 18 May 2009`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2346, the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009.

The FY 2009 Supplemental Appropriations bill implements President 
Obama's plans for winding down the number of troops in Iraq and 
refocusing our fight against al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan--a 
plan I strongly support. The bill includes funds to train Afghan 
security forces and police, and help with economic development in this 
struggling nation. This investment in Afghanistan will also strengthen 
governance and expand the rule of law there.

It provides our troops who are in harm's way with the equipment they 
need while they work tirelessly to implement the strategy set forth by 
President Obama. For those soldiers who have suffered the hardship of 
stop-loss, which keeps them on active duty longer than planned, it 
provides long overdue compensation.

For Maryland, the Supplemental means $208.3 million in funding for 
the relocation of Walter Reed Hospital National Military Medical Center 
to Bethesda. This money will support our wounded warriors and provide 
world-class care for these brave men and women. In addition, at our 
request, the President's budget includes separate funding to address 
the traffic congestion challenges that the Center will bring.

Additionally, in an effort to protect our country from global health 
risks, the Supplemental provides $2 billion for pandemic flu response. 
This money will be used to expand the federal stockpiles of anti-viral 
drugs, and develop and purchase vaccines. It also assists state and 
local responses and supports global efforts to track and contain the 
spread of a pandemic. The recent outbreak of H1N1 flu is a clear 
example of why this funding is vital to our health and safety.

When President Obama was elected, he made a pledge to end the war in 
Iraq. With this Supplemental, we take another step in fulfilling the 
President's plan to remove all combat troops by August 2010 in a way 
that makes our country safer and our armed forces stronger.
