---
---

# None
## `b12e0f480c9f1727dc08fc7bf66ffa54`
`Mr. CORNYN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I yield myself 10 minutes.

I rise to discuss my amendment which lays out the consequences of a 
failed state in Iraq. As every parent of a teenager knows, one of the 
things you have to impress upon your teenager is the consequences of 
their actions. I think we need to have an adult conversation and talk 
about the consequences of our actions in Iraq.

The one thing we all agree on is that we want to bring our troops 
home. We want to bring them home as soon as we can. The line of 
division between us seems to be between those who want to do so based 
upon an arbitrary political timetable and those who want to do so based 
on conditions on the ground. So I think it is important to have--as any 
adult would say to their child--a conversation about the consequences 
of your actions because I think these are the birds that are going to 
come home to roost should the Levin amendment be adopted.

As we know from the Iraq Study Group as well as the National 
Intelligence Estimate, the consequences of a failed state in Iraq are 
numerous, but they are significant and highly dangerous to the United 
States.

First of all, Iraq would become a safe haven for Islamic radicals, 
including al-Qaida and Hezbollah, who are determined to attack the 
United States and U.S. allies. The Iraq Study Group found that a 
chaotic Iraq would provide a still stronger base of operation for 
terrorists who seek to act regionally or even globally. That is not me 
talking; that is the Iraq Study Group. The Iraq Study Group also noted 
that al-Qaida will portray any failure by the United States in Iraq as 
a significant victory that will be featured prominently as they recruit 
for their cause in the region and around the world.

The National Intelligence Estimate presented by the intelligence 
community, which consists of the best and the brightest America has to 
offer, concluded that the consequences of a premature withdrawal from 
Iraq would be


that al-Qaida would attempt to use Anbar Province for further attacks 
outside of Iraq, neighboring countries would consider actively 
intervening in Iraq, and sectarian violence would significantly 
increase in Iraq, accompanied by massive civilian casualties and 
displacement. The Iraq Study Group found that a premature American 
withdrawal from Iraq would almost certainly produce greater sectarian 
violence and further deterioration of conditions. The near-term results 
would be a significant power vacuum, greater human suffering, regional 
destabilization, and a threat to the global economy. Al-Qaida would 
depict our withdrawal as a historic victory, much as they did when the 
Soviet Union was run out of Afghanistan.

A failed state in Iraq could lead to a broader regional conflict 
involving Syria, Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey. The Iraq Study Group 
noted that Turkey could send troops into northern Iraq to prevent 
Kurdistan from declaring independence. The Iraq Study Group noted that 
Iran could send troops to restore stability to southern Iraq and 
perhaps gain control of oilfields. The regional influence of Iran could 
arise at a time when that country is on a path to producing a nuclear 
weapon, as we know they are all about.

A failed state in Iraq would lead to massive humanitarian suffering. 
I know we are all concerned about what we see as the genocide in the 
Darfur region of Sudan, but those of us who are concerned about that 
huge humanitarian crisis there must also be concerned about the 
humanitarian crisis in Iraq should we prematurely withdrawal our troops 
and that country descend into massive ethnic cleansing and genocide and 
massive dislocation of refugees to other areas of the Middle East.

A recent editorial in the New York Times said Americans must be clear 
that Iraq and the region around it could be even bloodier and more 
chaotic after Americans leave. There could be reprisals against those 
who work with American forces, further ethnic cleansing, and even 
genocide. Potentially destabilizing refugee flows could hit Jordan, 
Syria, and Iran and Turkey could be tempted to make a power grab. The 
Iraq Study Group found that if we leave and Iraq descends into chaos, 
the long-range consequences could eventually require the United States 
to return.

My amendment commits the Senate to take no action that would lead to 
a failed state in Iraq that would invariably, in the opinion of the 
Iraq Study Group, a bipartisan group of experts, as well as the 
National Intelligence Estimate, lead to consequences that would not 
only be devastating for the Iraqis, it would be destabilizing in that 
region and would lead to greater loss of life and greater insecurity in 
the United States.

So I hope all of my colleagues will vote in favor of this amendment 
at 2:45 when that vote is scheduled. I can't imagine any possible 
objection to this sense of the Senate on the consequences of a failed 
state in Iraq.

Finally, I would say this is an important part of the overall debate 
where we talk about not only what our preferred policy is but what the 
consequences of a failure would be. I think part of a responsible adult 
debate is talking about what the consequences would be as we commit 
ourselves to take no action that would lend an increased likelihood to 
that failed state.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my 
time.