---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `b137a03c7acb762a455092d8c2b61eb5`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 24 June 2009`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. I do rise in support of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. As the ranking member of the 
Terrorism and Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, I 
think we have put together a good and an excellent mark. And I'd like 
to thank the chairman of the subcommittee for all of his cooperation in 
putting this together.

The members of the subcommittee have worked hard to address the many 
issues that face special operations, information technology, and 
science and technology investments, just to name a few of the areas 
that our subcommittee has handled.

We have provided important support to the Department's effort to 
enhance NATO capabilities so that our forces do not bear the entire 
burden of the efforts in Afghanistan and elsewhere around the globe.

I believe we should support additional efforts to increase NATO's 
ability to contribute, especially at a time when irregular threats are 
only increasing and partnerships will prove of the utmost importance.

Our bill also addresses the needs of our special operators by 
increasing the budget request to address the command's unfunded 
requirements. These forces are at the tip of the spear in our 
military's efforts to counter terrorism and to bring stability to 
regions on the brink of chaos.

The bill includes measures to strengthen the Department's ability to 
operate in cyberspace and to address vulnerabilities to our information 
technology systems. The bill directs the establishment of a joint 
program office to better coordinate the acquisition of cyber 
capabilities across the Department and continues to push the Department 
to establish processes for the timely acquisition of needed information 
technology systems.

Finally, this bill continues our previous support of science and 
technology programs. Sustained investment in this area is very 
important for our military forces to maintain their warfighting 
capability not just now, but well into the future.

I would say that we need to continue to work on strategic 
communications, combating the potential use of weapons of mass 
destruction, and ensuring our national defense strategy addresses 
appropriately the range of threats found in our security environment 
today.

We must not lose sight of the importance of these issues and to 
ensure our forces have the resources, the authorities, and the 
equipment needed to provide for our Nation's defense.

Before finishing, I'd like to thank our former ranking member, Mr. 
John McHugh, for all of his help, confidence, and advice. We wish him 
Godspeed. With that, I ask for my colleagues to support this bill.