---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b141d08c05200fe258849de50d12f1dd`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, the economy has been one of the 
casualties of the Iraq war. And this administration has consistently 
refused to be interested in dealing with the problems of the 
unemployed.

We tried to get this introduced when we had the stimulus package some 
months ago. The administration didn't want to do anything with the 
unemployed. Long-term unemployment in this country is up to 17.9 
percent. Now, you would think they would care, but they still aren't 
asking for it.

They have never changed their tune from 1935. They never thought we 
should have unemployment insurance in the Social Security Act of 1935 
because they said if you give people unemployment insurance, they won't 
want to go to work, they will just want to sit home and get a check. 
That comes from people who have never been unemployed. That comes from 
people who don't know anybody who has ever been unemployed. It is 
simply nonsense.

We need to put the money into the economy. We need to give it to the 
workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. And 
this administration still sits there and says, no, we're not going to 
extend unemployment benefits.

There are 26 weeks in here; 13 for everybody, and 13 weeks for those 
States that are over 6 percent.

Mr. Speaker, the U.S. economy is one of the casualties of the Iraq 
war, and passing an extension of unemployment benefits is nothing less 
than battlefield triage for innocent American workers who have lost 
their jobs through no fault of their own.

When I first introduced legislation several months ago to extend 
unemployment benefits, I had hoped the White House would declare a 
cease fire so that we could act quickly and on a bipartisan basis to 
help the American people and U.S. economy.

Instead, months went by while the administration pretended the 
gathering economic storm was nothing to worry about. And matters just 
kept getting worse.

Long-term unemployment--the percentage of unemployed workers who have 
not been able to find a job for at least 6 months--now stands at 17.8 
percent. That is something to worry about. And act on.

My bipartisan unemployment extension bill will extend benefits in 
every State for an additional 13 weeks, and in States where the overall 
unemployment rate exceeds 6 percent, there is another 13-week 
extension.

We are going to help the American people weather this storm. And at 
the same time, we're going to lessen the economic blow to the U.S. 
economy.

We know people spend their unemployment benefits quickly, and we know 
a dollar in benefits yields $1.73 in positive economic impact as the 
money ripples through the economy.

Governors, mayors, State legislators, economists, advocates for 
working families, and the faith community are all asking for this 
extension of unemployment benefits.

Only those on the far right are opposed.

They say that unemployment benefits keep people from going out and 
looking for a job, but they are both out of line and out of touch.

Across America the average unemployment benefit is less than $300 a 
week--below the poverty-level for an American family.

What we're doing today is throwing a lifeline to the American people. 
Enough damage has already been done to the U.S. economy because of all 
the money spent on the endless Iraq war.

It's time for Congress to tend to the economic casualties at home.

Vote for extending unemployment benefits because it is a vote for 
helping the American people.











National Governors Association,




















Washington, DC, May 1, 2008.


 Hon. Max Baucus,


 Chairman, Committee on Finance, U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.


 Hon. Charles Grassley,


 Ranking Member, Committee on Finance, U.S. Senate, 




 Washington, DC.


 Hon. Charles B. Rangel,


 Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means, House of 




 Representatives, Washington, DC.


 Hon. Jim McCrery,


 Ranking Member, Committee on Ways and Means, House of 




 Representatives, Washington, DC.



 Dear Chairman Baucus, Senator Grassley, Chairman Rangel and 


 Representative McCrery: On behalf of the nation's governors, 


 we write to express our support for an extension of 


 unemployment benefits and to request federal assistance for 


 states to serve a growing number of jobless individuals.



 In the last month, 36 states experienced an increase in the 


 unemployment rate. The national unemployment rate increased 


 to 5.1 percent in March 2008. Most notable, however, is the 


 significant number of individuals that are unemployed for 27 


 weeks or longer, thus exhausting all unemployment benefits. 


 Today, approximately 16.7 percent of jobless individuals are 


 experiencing long-term unemployment compared to approximately 


 11 percent at the beginning of the last recession.



 Beginning in 1935, a federal-state partnership was formed 


 to create an unemployment program that would provide a core 


 stabilizing function during economic downturns through short-


 term income support for jobless individuals, In prior 


 recessions including the economic downturn that began in 


 2001, Congress and the Administration utilized the program to 


 extend unemployment benefits to jobless individuals.



 At the same time, any proposal to extend unemployment 


 benefits must also address the reality that states need 


 additional resources to administer unemployment claims for a 


 larger number of individuals for a longer period of time. 


 This year alone, states may have to administer an average of 


 nearly 400,000 unemployment insurance claims without federal 


 funding. Federal support is needed by state employment and 


 workforce agencies to administer increased initial 


 unemployment claims, to support weekly unemployment benefits, 


 and to provide employment and training services.



 Given the current economic indicators and historical 


 precedent, governors believe it is prudent and appropriate 


 for Congress and the Administration to enact a temporary 


 federally funded extension of unemployment insurance benefits 


 and to provide a sufficient increase in funding for states to 


 assist jobless individuals during this period of economic 


 slowdown.



 We stand ready to work with you and thank you for your 


 leadership on this issue of national importance.





 Sincerely,


 Donald L. Carcieri,



 Governor, Chair, Education, Early Childhood and Workforce 


 Committee.


 Brad Henry,



 Governor, Vice Chair, Education, Early Childhood and 


 Workforce Committee.