# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b14499c031ae85f8b51f7d76e922c9ee`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, this amendment, the Alexander-Collins-
Voinovich-Warner amendment, has to do with the law we call REAL ID.

I will describe REAL ID in a moment, but fundamentally what the 
amendment proposes is to offer $300 million in funding to the States to 
implement REAL ID. The offset would be a 0.8-percent across-the-board 
cut in the rest of the bill. The total bill is $37 billion, more or 
less. I know that offset is not one the chairman and ranking member of 
the committee are likely to approve of, but during our committee 
discussions I offered other offsets which weren't approved of, and I 
feel strongly that if the Congress requires the States to adopt REAL ID 
or something similar to REAL ID, then the Congress ought to pay for 
it--hence the $300 million amendment.

Someone once said about me last year--and I haven't been here very 
long, this is my fifth year as a Senator, but I have been around a 
while--they said the problem with Lamar is he hasn't gotten over being 
Governor, which I was privileged to be in my home State of Tennessee 
for several years.

I hope when I get over being Governor, the people of Tennessee send 
me home because I think one of the contributions I can make is to 
remind the Congress and remind the country that our country's strengths 
begin with strong communities and strong counties and strong cities and 
strong States and that the central government, according to our 
traditions and our Constitution, is for the rest of the things that 
States, communities, cities and counties can't do. According to the 
10th amendment and its spirit, if we require it of the State and local 
governments from here, we should fund it from here.

Nothing used to make me more angry as a Governor than for some 
Senator or Congressman to pass a bill with a big-sounding idea in 
Washington, DC, hold a press conference, take credit for it, and then 
send the bill to me to pay. Then that same Senator or Congressman more 
than likely would be back in Tennessee within the next few weeks making 
a big speech at the Lincoln Day or Jackson Day dinner about local 
control.


This is such an important issue that the 1994 elections turned on it, 
to a great extent. I remember dozens of Republican Congressmen and 
candidates standing with Newt Gingrich on the Capitol steps, saying:




 No more unfunded Federal mandates. If we break our promise, 


 send us home.


That may be one of the reasons the Republican Congress got sent home 
last year, because we hadn't paid enough attention to that promise. I 
can remember Senator Dole, when he was the majority leader in the 
Senate in 1995. He was campaigning for President, campaigning around 
the country and I was often at the same events. He would hold up his 
copy of the Constitution and talk about the 10th amendment. That is the 
spirit I wish to talk about today.

The REAL ID Act began in a good way. The 9/11 Commission recommended, 
in some fairly vague language, that we needed to improve our 
identification documents in the United States. The Commission found 
that:




 [a]ll but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of 


 U.S. identification document, some by fraud. Acquisition of 


 these documents would have assisted them in boarding 


 commercial flights, renting cars, and other necessary 


 activities.


So said the 9/11 Commission. The Commission added that the Federal 
Government should:




 . . . set standards for the issuance of . . . sources of 


 identification, such as drivers' licenses. Fraud in 


 identification documents is no longer just a problem of 


 theft.


The Congress began to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 
Commission soon thereafter, and in December of 2004 the Senate passed 
the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 which 
called for States to create secure driver's licenses and ID cards under 
section 7212 of the bill.

It established a negotiated rulemaking process that included State 
government officials, which was a direct effort to deal with the 
problem I discussed. Through that, standards would be promulgated that 
would make it more difficult to create and obtain fraudulent driver's 
licenses.

The purpose of the negotiated rulemaking process was so that as 
Congress said that our national needs called for more secure documents, 
the State and local governments could say let us talk with you about 
the realities at home, about what we use driver's licenses for, about 
how many there are, about what the cost would be of implementing new 
standards, and about how long it might take. In addition, we might have 
some other ideas about a different kind of secure document that might 
be better than a driver's license for this purpose. And there are some 
privacy standards we are worried about.

In addition to that, the experience with national identification 
cards around the world hasn't been all that promising. In Nazi Germany 
it wasn't a good story. Those who remember the more recent history of 
South Africa, when every citizen had a card to carry around which would 
decree what their race is and whether they were of mixed blood, that 
sort of ''Big Brother'' attitude is of great concern in the land of 
liberty, the United States of America. So the negotiated rulemaking 
process was to take into account all of that.

Then came along the REAL ID Act of 2005 in the midst of all this 
careful consideration. It was attached to the emergency supplemental 
appropriations bill of 2005. In other words, it was stuck in, by the 
House of Representatives, on the troop funding bill and it was signed 
into law by the President in May. We had no choice but to pass it. We 
had our men and women in Afghanistan and Iraq. We had to pay the bills 
for their service. This was just stuck in there. We had to vote it up 
or down and REAL ID became law. The Senate didn't hold any hearings. It 
was swept through Congress.



The REAL ID Act superseded that negotiated rulemaking process 
included in the Intelligence Reform bill, in which the States and the 
Federal Government were working back and forth to set minimum standards 
for State driver's licenses in an effort to deter terrorists. REAL ID 
established a de facto national ID card by setting Federal standards 
for State driver's licenses and making the States create and issue 
them.

One might say the States don't have to do it. They don't have to do 
it unless they want their citizens to be unable to fly on airplanes or 
obtain other necessary Federal services. It is a Hobson's choice. So, 
in effect, the REAL ID law, with no hearings, no consideration of 
whether there might be some other kind of card or set of different 
cards that would be more appropriate, became law. The States had to 
comply with that and that meant 245 million U.S. driver's licenses or 
ID holders would have to get new identification.

The Department of Homeland Security has not yet issued final 
regulations of this massive act, even though the States are supposed to 
be ready to comply with these new standards and measures by May 11 of 
next year, 2008. Final regulations are expected to be released in the 
early fall, and this will give States just months to reach the May 2008 
deadline.

It is true that, thanks to Senator Collins and others, and our 
willingness to forgo an amendment earlier this year, the Department of 
Homeland Security agreed to grant waivers to States to delay 
implementation. But, still, under the present route, 245 million people 
in America will need to get new ID cards by May of 2013.

REAL ID is a massive unfunded mandate on the States to begin with. 
Last fall the National Governors Association and others released a 
study putting the cost of REAL ID at $11 billion over 5 years. The 
Department of Homeland Security itself said the cost may reach $20 
billion over 10 years. To date, the Federal Government has appropriated 
$40 million for the States to comply with REAL ID, and only $6 million 
of the $40 million has actually been given to the States.

Here we go again. After a lot of promises from Washington, DC, on 
this side of the aisle and on that side of the aisle--we say no more 
unfunded mandates, but we have a real big idea, we announce it, take 
credit for it and send the bill to the Governors and the legislatures. 
We let them worry about whether to raise college tuitions, raise 
property taxes, or cut services over here--worry how do we pay for this 
new mandate?

No wonder 17 States now have passed legislation opposing the REAL ID 
Act, including Tennessee, which became the 16th State on June 11 of 
this year.

To get an idea of what REAL ID would require, first, you have to 
prove the applicant's identity, which would take a passport, birth 
certificate, a consular report--there are a number of other documents 
that could be used. Then you have to prove your date of birth. That 
might mean you have to bring in two documents. Then you have to prove 
your Social Security number. That might mean you have to go find your 
Social Security card. I wonder how many people have their Social 
Security card today. You are up to three documents. You need the 
address of your principal residence--you have to prove that. Then you 
have to prove you are lawfully here. That is not just for someone who 
is becoming a citizen or someone coming here, this is for every single 
person who drives a car or gets an ID; he or she has to prove they are 
lawfully here under REAL ID. In all the States, that is 245 million 
people.

In Tennessee last year, there were 1,711,000 new or renewed driver's 
licenses. I renewed mine by mail; 154,000 renewed theirs online. There 
will be no mail renewals, there will be no online renewals in Tennessee 
or Maryland or Mississippi or Washington State. Everybody will get to 
go to the driver's license office. There are 53 of those in Tennessee, 
and 1.7 million of us will show up at those 53 offices, not just at one 
time, not just in 1 week, but just in 1 month, scrambling around, 
trying to figure out what documents we need to have. I can imagine 
there are going to be phone calls coming into our offices that make the 
phone calls on immigration look like a Sunday school class.

We need only look at the recent passport backlog to imagine what 
might happen with the REAL ID backlog. We remember that the passport 
quagmire in which we have been in the last few months was triggered by 
a very well intentioned policy change designed to thwart terrorists. 
Specifically, new rules were implemented in January of 2007 requiring 
Americans to have passports for travel between the United States and 
Canada, Mexico and most of the islands of the Caribbean. This caused a 
massive surge in passport applications. There were 12 million passports 
issued in 2006. The State Department expects to issue 17 million this 
year--a 42-percent increase. Prior to the passport regulations, 
applications were increasing at a rate of 1 to 2 million a year. We are 
expecting an increase of 5 million applications from 2006 to 2007.

In March of this year, there was a backlog of 3 million passports. 
The current backlog is 2.3 million passports. Prior to the new 
regulations, turnaround time was 6 weeks on regular service and 2 weeks 
on expedited service. At the worst part of this year, they were running 
12 to 14 weeks on regular service and 4 to 6 weeks on expedited 
service. This massive backlog destroyed summer vacations, ruined 
wedding and honeymoon plans, disrupted business meetings and 
educational trips, caused people to lose days of work waiting in line, 
and caused people to lose money for nonrefundable travel and hotel 
deposits and reservations.

My office has worked with the passport office over the last few 
months. I would compliment them for the dedication of the employees and 
how they were trying to deal with this massive surge, but we imposed 
upon them a burden they simply could not handle.

What do we say to the people of Tennessee: Show up at our 53 driver's 
license offices with the correct documentation; otherwise, you may wait 
for 2 hours, you get up to the window, and then they tell you've 
forgotten your Social Security card and you must come back again. If 
they show up over 1 month, this is going to make the passport 
application surge look like a small problem.

I believe we have a choice in Congress. I think insofar as REAL ID 
goes, we should either fund it or we should repeal it. Fund it or 
repeal it.

It may be that we need to have a national identification card. I have 
always been opposed to that, but we live in a different era now. But I 
would much prefer to have seen the Senate debate this in the usual way 
and let us consider, for example, whether a secure work card, such as 
the kind Senator Schumer and Senator Graham have proposed and Senator 
Cornyn and I have talked about, might not be a better form of ID card.

Most of our immigration problems, for example, are related to work. 
Maybe a secure identification card would be better, a secure Social 
Security card would be better, or maybe, because of privacy concerns 
and our memory of Nazi Germany and our memory of South Africa, we want 
to be very careful about having anything that is actually called a 
national ID card or even a de facto ID card. So maybe we can work over 
a period of years and help to create several cards: maybe a travel card 
that some can use on airplanes or other forms of travel; maybe a work 
card; maybe some States would want to use the driver's license as that 
form of ID card. But the point would be that there would be three or 
four choices which could be used for ID which would be secure and would 
help with the terrorism threat we face.

I regret very much that we did not have a chance to take this 
problem, this recommendation of the 9/11 Commission, properly through 
the Senate and consider it. I was glad to see the legislation that 
created the negotiated rulemaking process that at least involved the 
States in what is going on.

We have an obligation in this body to recognize the fact that if we 
are going to have something called REAL ID--and according to our own 
Department of Homeland Security, it is going to cost $20 billion over 
10 years--then we have a responsibility to appropriate that money or 
most of that money to pay for it. Today, we are at $40 million. That is 
why Senator Collins and Senator Warner and Senator Voinovich and I 
intend to offer this amendment to the appropriations bill to provide 
$300 million in funding to the States to


implement REAL ID. In the meantime, I am going to work with other 
Senators to either reestablish the negotiated rulemaking process or to 
repeal REAL ID and let us move ahead with a different way of developing 
a secure identification card.

I yield the floor.