---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `b145e6c579e838b9abb7fbce97ff8803`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 12 March 2008`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. I would also note that we had 25 Senators who joined us 
in a letter to the Budget Committee recently requesting this as a 
priority in the budget, and I would encourage my colleagues to take a 
look at this amendment and join us because it is truly the right thing 
to do. This amendment would provide an additional $50 million for the 
Veterans Benefits Administration.


In the scheme of things, and how we talk about things in Washington, 
$50 million is not a great deal. It is not a huge amount in the overall 
scheme of the dollars we talk about in our Nation's budget. But we 
believe it can truly make a difference in providing the Veterans 
Benefits Administration with the additional resources it desperately 
needs to more effectively meet its increasing workload and its 
unacceptability in terms of the large backlog of pending claims.

In recent years, Congress has taken the lead in tackling the claims 
backlog and improving the management of the VBA. In last year's budget, 
much needed resources were provided to increase the number of claims 
processing staff essential to reducing the pending claims backlog and 
improving the timeliness of that claims process.

There is not a Member in this body, I am sure, who has not dealt 
with, in their constituent services and their casework, the issues of 
veterans' benefits that have been backlogged, the time it takes to get 
these veterans the benefits they deserve. They have fought hard for 
this country and need and deserve those benefits.

The leadership and guidance of Chairman Akaka and Chairman Conrad and 
their staffs certainly made all of this possible. Today we seek to 
invest further in the commitment we already made in last year's budget 
and what we were pushing forward and were successful in, in terms of 
additional funding for the VBA dealing with that backlog of cases.

According to the Veterans Benefits Administration's Workload Report 
from March 8, 2008, the total number of pending compensation and 
pension claims was 666,710. That was up from 627,429 this time last 
year. So we are seeing an increase in our caseload while all the while 
we still have a backlog in those cases that are pending.

The amount that has been pending for more than 180 days is nearly 27 
percent. Additionally, claims requiring a disability rating 
determination, which are the most time consuming and resource intensive 
to the process, have increased more than 50 percent since 2003.

This is inexcusable--veterans who return home from Iraq and 
Afghanistan, veterans who are out there with disability claims from 
other circumstances, who have been put into these backlogs. It is 
continuing to grow. We are only asking for $50 million to be able to 
improve upon that situation for these veterans.

Between the fiscal year 2000 and fiscal year 2007, the number of 
filed claims increased 45 percent, from almost 579,000 to 838,000. For 
fiscal year 2009, the VA, which has consistently underestimated its 
workload in the past, projects the number to increase to approximately 
872,000. These numbers are increasing and we have to get a handle on it 
so we can stop those overloads and certainly the workloads that are 
backlogged.

Further, the VA cautions that ongoing hostilities in Iraq and 
Afghanistan could increase its workload even further. So we know 
unfortunately there is not going to be a lessening. There is only, more 
than likely, going to be an increase. We have to make sure we have the 
resources there.

In light of all these mounting challenges, this amendment would 
provide an additional $50 million to the VBA's general administration 
account so it would have the flexibility to explore pilot programs and 
invest more in training or technology initiatives to help tackle the 
claims backlog. This is not a process that is going to go away if we do 
not address it. It is simply not fair to our veterans.

It complements the recommendations that are provided in the Budget 
Views and Estimates from both the House and Senate Committees on 
Veterans' Affairs. As discussed in those documents----

(Disturbance in the Visitors' Gallery.)