---
---

# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `b150d114be8bd59149def42d6ed110c1`
`Ms. WATERS — 10 May 2007`

---


Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker and Members, I take this opportunity to thank 
the leadership for honoring the work and the request of the 
progressives of this House to place a bill before this body that we 
could feel good about supporting.

Some of us have been against this war. We have come to the floor. We 
have done interviews. We have worked the floor. We have done everything 
that we possibly can to communicate what we believe are the feelings of 
the American public about this war. The November vote indicated to us, 
and should have to others, that Americans are sick and tired of this 
war. They want to bring our soldiers home. They want to stop the loss 
of lives. They want to stop the money that is being spent, over $400 
billion on Iraq and Afghanistan; 3,200 or more lives that have been 
lost; over 25,000 soldiers who have been seriously injured.



Some of us are not willing to spend other another dime on this war. 
And this bill that is before us, thanks to Barbara Lee and Mr. McGovern 
and to Lynn Woolsey and I, we have this bill that represents the 
thinking of the progressives of this House that simply says, we will 
give no more money to continue fighting this war, but rather, any money 
that is expended would simply be funds to help wind down this war and 
to bring our soldiers out; no permanent bases left in Iraq; and 
basically that no money would be spent on a surge. This surge that the 
President has initiated is placing our soldiers at


great risk. As a matter of fact, there is no safety in the Green Zone. 
As a matter of fact, we do not have friends in Iraq. The Sunnis are 
against us. The Shias are against us. The Kurds are against us. And 
those Iraqi soldiers that are embedded are undermining our soldiers. I 
would ask for an ''aye'' vote on this very progressive piece of 
legislation.