---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b1513b8eac7fbf6e87397a987d2c070f`
`Mr. KELLER of Florida — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. KELLER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, the Iraq war is the central issue 
of our time. We are spending $2 billion a week and we are losing 100 
American lives a month. Under these conditions, I feel I owe my 
constituents my best judgment.

Interjecting more young American troops into the cross-hairs of an 
Iraqi civil war is simply not the right approach. If the President 
sends these troops anyway, I will support their funding 100 percent so 
they have the bullets and equipment they need to defend themselves.

I approach this decision with a great deal of angst and humility. I 
am not trying to micromanage this war. I am just a Member of Congress, 
not a four-star general. But I have listened to what our country's most 
well-respected four-star generals have to say about this matter, and 
Generals Abizaid, McCaffrey and Colin Powell have all said that sending 
more troops into Baghdad now is not the answer.

Some people will say, if you are not for surging more American troops 
into Baghdad now, what are you for? What is your plan?

I am for a different kind of surge. I am for a surge of Iraqi troops 
to take out al-Sadr and his militia, especially since the Iraqi 
security forces outnumber the Sadr militia by a ratio of 5 to 1. That 
is 325,000 versus 60,000. I am for a surge of political process by the 
Iraqi Government to finally reach a deal on sharing oil revenue. I am 
for a surge of action in implementing the Iraq Study Group 
recommendations, which were adopted in a bipartisan, unanimous fashion. 
I am for a surge of gratitude by the Iraqi people, 61 percent of whom 
think it is okay to kill American troops and 79 percent have a mostly 
negative view of the United States.

Some people argue that we should support President Bush's decision. I 
like and respect President Bush. I want him to be successful. Three 
years ago I could have voted for this surge. But the situation on the 
ground in Iraq today is very different than it was 3 years ago.

Three years ago, Iraq was not in a civil war. Now it is. Three years 
ago, Iraq did not have 325,000 of its own security forces to defend 
itself. Now it does. Three years ago, we didn't know whether surging 
more American troops into Baghdad would give us a long-lasting impact. 
Now we know the answer, because we tried the same thing last summer. 
The benefits were temporary. The body bags were permanent.

We are now told we should trust the Maliki government. I have been 
down that road before. I personally went to Baghdad and met with the 
Maliki government officials last summer. I was told by December of 2006 
they would have enough security forces that they would need to defend 
themselves and we would then be in a position to start bringing our 
troops home. Now they say, give us another year.

We were told when America sent 15,000 of its own troops to surge in 
Baghdad last summer that the Iraqi troops would be right there beside 
them. Well, Iraqi troops didn't show up. The benefits of the surge were 
only temporary.

Mr. Speaker, I voted to authorize the use of force in 2002 because I 
did not want Saddam Hussein to give weapons of mass destruction to al 
Qaeda. Now Saddam is dead and there are no weapons of mass destruction 
in Iraq.

We have remained in Iraq for 4 years because we want a unified and 
secure Iraq, so it doesn't become a haven for terrorists. 
Unfortunately, it seems the Americans want a unified and secure Iraq 
more than the Iraqis do.



Let me give you an analogy. Imagine your next-door neighbor refuses 
to mow his lawn and the weeds are all the way up to his waist. You 
decide you are going to mow his lawn for him every single week. The 
neighbor never says thank you, he hates you, and sometimes he takes out 
a gun and shoots at you. Under these circumstances, do you keep mowing 
his lawn forever? Do you send even more of your family members over to 
mow his lawn? Or do you say to that neighbor, you better step it up and 
mow your own lawn, or there are going to be serious consequences for 
you.

Mr. Speaker, sending more young American troops now into the middle 
of Iraqi civil war violence is not the answer. I will support the 
troops 100 percent. But we are not going to solve an Iraqi political 
problem with an American military solution. And that is my best 
judgment.

May God bless our troops, our President and our country.