---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `b1549095913d3c4bef8c5678d54a7dfa`
`Mr. CASEY — 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise at this late afternoon hour to talk 
about what has transpired over the last 24 hours. As the Presiding 
Officer knows, we had a vote at 1 a.m. this morning. To say that is 
unusual is an understatement; to have the Senate voting at that hour is 
most unusual. What that vote symbolized--what happened here pursuant to 
that vote was I think an exercise in Washington game playing.

We have now a health care bill that the American people have been 
debating for months--the bill in front of the Senate right now, a bill 
we have been debating intensively over the last couple of weeks, and we 
want to get to a vote on it. In order to prevent a vote on health care, 
the Republican side of the aisle decided they would use any tactic 
necessary to stop the bill, so they came out in full force at 1 a.m. 
and voted against the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for 
2010.

It is hard to understand why. I can understand opposition to a health 
care bill, and we can debate that, but it is hard to understand why any 
political party--even one that is intent on killing a health care 
bill--would use the Department of Defense Appropriations Act to do 
that, but that is what they did. It is another example of what makes 
people angry about what happens or doesn't happen in Washington.

We have seen over the last couple of months a real debate about what 
our policy will be in Afghanistan. We have had a debate for years about 
what has been happening in Iraq, in those two conflicts, and what our 
fighting men and women are doing around the world serving their 
country. We know now that there are more than 34,000--almost 35,000--
Americans deployed in Afghanistan.

When I consider my home State of Pennsylvania, when you look at the 
number of Pennsylvanians overseas--Afghanistan, Iraq, as well as other 
places around the world where they are serving, where they are 
deployed--10,430 Pennsylvanians are serving around the world. There are 
6,431 active duty and 3,999 Guard and Reserve Pennsylvanians. Many 
other States could point to similar numbers. So we have tens of 
thousands of Americans serving around the world, especially those who 
are serving in Afghanistan and in Iraq right now, and yet we have the 
Senate, on the Republican side of the aisle, using a Defense 
appropriations bill to slow down the health care debate and to stop the 
bill. It is beyond insulting to the American people that they would use 
this tactic.

What is the bill all about? Well, I won't go through all of it, but 
here is what the Department of Defense Appropriations Act entails. 
First of all, military personnel: Funding for more than 2.2 million 
Americans who are serving our country. More than 1.4 million are active 
duty and over 844,000 for the Reserve component.

Military pay: The bill provides for a 3.4-percent military pay 
increase above the requested amount.

Operations and maintenance, readiness and training: The bill includes 
$154 billion for Defense operations and maintenance.

Procurement, research, development, testing and evaluation, a whole 
series of expenditures that our fighting men and women need to have in 
place to help them around the world, and a whole list of vehicles and 
other equipment that are paid for by this bill.

It goes on from there, a long, important list of what our fighting 
men and women need. What they don't need is a group of Washington, DC 
politicians using the Defense appropriations bill to play a game on 
health care. If the Republicans want to slow down health care or stop 
it, they have every right to do that, and they have every right to use 
lots and lots of tactics and procedures. What they should never do--
there may not be a rule against this per se, but one would think as 
Americans who are supposed to be supporting our fighting men and women 
in Afghanistan and in Iraq and other places around the world, one would 
think they would draw the line and not cross the line of using the 
Defense Appropriations Act to enforce their will as it relates to 
health care.

What our fighting men and women expect of us is they expect us to 
give them the resources they need to fight those battles and not to 
play petty, insulting political games in the midst of that, but that is 
what we have had. We had Republican Senators come down to this floor at 
1 o'clock in the morning last night and vote one after another after 
another against moving the Department of Defense Appropriations Act 
forward.

I will note that in the midst of all that, the Secretary of Defense, 
Secretary Gates, who we know served several Republican Presidents--he 
served


now former President Bush and President Reagan and served under the 
first President Bush as well--recently wrote that delay of this bill, 
delay of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, would result in 
a ''serious disruption'' in the military's ability to pay troops. The 
Secretary of Defense continued:




 It is inconceivable to me that such a situation would be 


 permitted to occur with U.S. forces actively deployed in 


 combat.


I couldn't say it better myself. It is inconceivable. We know 
political parties fight and both parties have battled and they carry it 
too far once in a while, but I don't know of an example where a 
political party, in order to stop a domestic bill that deals with 
domestic issues--in this case health care--to stop that from moving 
forward would use the Department of Defense appropriations bill as its 
vehicle.

As it stands now, we know the vehicle that keeps our government 
moving and paying for government programs--the so-called CR, which is 
an acronym for continuing resolution--which, to get out of the 
Washington-speak for a moment, means the way we are paying for 
government to operate over a limited period of time, we know that 
resolution, the funding in that resolution as it relates to Pentagon 
operations runs out at midnight. I recognize there is some flexibility 
that will allow operations to move forward, but it is outrageous and 
insulting when a political party feels the need to unreasonably delay 
funding for the troops because they want to put something in the way of 
having health care move forward. There are lots of ways to obstruct. 
There are lots of ways to slow things down.

Under the Senate rules, the minority party--in this case the 
Republicans in the Senate--have rights to do that. But one would think 
when we have people on the battlefield they would draw the line at 
this, but they haven't. They have crossed this line, and I think the 
American people know what is going on here. It is a game. It is a big 
Washington game. The only problem here, the fundamental problem here is 
that it is in direct conflict with our obligation to make sure that we 
move legislation as it relates to our military as fast as we can. This 
isn't something that people have been working on for a couple of days. 
There have been hearings that are the undergirding or the foundation of 
this appropriations act. There have been debates about what the 
spending increases should be. All of that took place over many months, 
and now we want to move a Defense Appropriations Act forward, and what 
are the Republicans doing? They are using that vehicle to stop the 
health care bill.

So, even as I said before, to say it is insulting or outrageous 
doesn't begin to capture it, but I think the American people know what 
we are talking about. They understand a game when they see it, and they 
are seeing it with this shell game that has been played over the last 
couple of hours.

We are going to continue to make sure that we do everything possible 
to move this legislation forward, and then, after we get this 
legislation moved forward, then we are going to get back to health care 
and pass a health care bill before Christmas.

With that, I yield the floor.

I note the absence of a quorum.