# OPPOSING ANY ENDORSEMENT OR FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF REPORT OF THE  UNITED NATIONS FACT FINDING MISSION ON THE GAZA CONFLICT
## `b157aed719a829e2e938394891662bf1`
`Mr. BERMAN — 3 November 2009`

---


Mr. BERMAN. The question is raised by several of the opposing 
speakers: Why are we doing this now? What's the rush? And the only 
rush, because I would prefer we have more time, I prefer we have more 
discussion, is that tomorrow the General Assembly, in its rush to adopt 
a resolution to send this matter to the Security Council and to the 
international criminal courts if there is not an investigation within 
90 days, is speeding to a judgment, and I personally think it is very 
important for us to act on this matter before the General Assembly 
meets, debates, and votes.

Secondly, there have been glowing tributes, and I am sure they are 
deserved, to the record, the resume, the judgment, the reputation of 
Justice Goldstone. Several of my favorite Supreme Court justices voted 
in a decision called Korematsu to pick up Japanese Americans who 
resided in different parts of the United States and put them into 
detention camps. They are still my favorite justices, but they made a 
mistake. A wonderful jurist can issue a flawed report, and I would 
suggest this is such a situation.

Next, let's talk about the Human Rights Commission. The U.N. Human 
Rights Council is obsessed with Israel. They have had 24 negative 
resolutions on Israel in its 3 years of existence, which totals more 
than every other resolution on any other country regardless of their 
human rights record. Total, 24 on Israel; less on all of the other 
countries of the world. It is the only country which is on the 
permanent agenda of the Human Rights Council, and it is discussed every 
year automatically. The only country.

Now, we corrected what I think were some inaccuracies in the initial 
language regarding the mandate, and we recognize the efforts. Never, as 
my ranking member points, to formally change the mandate, but for 
Justice Goldstone to operate. But I would not rest my opposition, my 
support for this resolution, and my disagreement with the opponents 
simply based on the reputation and conduct of the Human Rights Council. 
The fact is I too believe the report is flawed.

I am going to take a couple of moments to quote from this coming 
week's New Republic an article by Moshe Halbertal. I want to quote two 
paragraphs which I think reflect better than I can say on my own the 
problem here and ask my colleagues to come to grips with this.

He writes, ''The commission that wrote the report,'' that is the 
Goldstone Report, ''could have performed a great service if it had 
concentrated on gathering the testimonies from Gaza and assessing them 
critically, while acknowledging (as the Goldstone Report failed to do) 
that they are partial and incomplete.''

By definition, they did not talk, for reasons that we all know, they 
did not talk to the Israeli forces that were involved in the crimes 
this commission found them to have committed.

''This would have forced Israel to investigate various matters, 
provide answers, and take appropriate measures.''

Continuing, ''But instead, the commission opted to add to its 
findings


three unnecessary elements: the context of the history that led to the 
war; its assessments of Israel's strategic goals; and long sections on 
Israel's occupation of the West Bank. Why should a committee with a 
mandate to inquire into the operation in Gaza deal with the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict at large?

''The honest reader of these sections,'' and I have read those 
sections, ''cannot avoid the impression that their objective is to 
prepare a general indictment of Israel as a predatory state that is 
geared toward violating human rights all the time. It will naturally 
follow from such a premise that the Gaza operation was yet another 
instance of Israel's general wicked behavior. These long sections are 
the weakest, the most biased, and the most outrageous in this long 
document. They are nothing if not political. In Goldstone's account of 
the history that led to the war, for example, Hamas is basically 
described as a legitimate party that had the bad luck to clash with 
Israel. The bloody history of the movement--which, since the beginning 
of the Oslo accords, was determined to do everything in its power, 
including the massacre of civilians, to defeat the peace process--is 
not mentioned.''

We are in a very strange situation. Israel has conducted numerous 
investigations on this issue. I would like to see Israel conduct a 
formal inquiry on this particular issue. But until we in this Congress 
come here and recommend that some outside commission recognize the U.S. 
military because a number of civilians died in the asymmetrical war or 
when we dealt with Taliban forces in Afghanistan, or other issues that 
come in an asymmetrical war where the soldiers wear no uniforms and 
there is no front, don't start telling us that democratic allies like 
Israel have to have these investigations. Their process will produce 
the right result, I truly believe.

I urge an ''aye'' vote for the resolution.