---
---

# ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION
## `b1609a54919625d6da4559db7df11cdf`
`Mr. CARTER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. I thank my friend from California for recognizing me on 
this very important issue to the people of the United States of 
America, the opening of our borders and the pouring in of somewhere 
between 12- to 20 million people who have broken the laws of the United 
States of America.

I want to talk a little tonight about what's going on in my district 
and what's going on in Texas and what's going on in the country. But, 
first, I would like to respond to some talk that took place in the last 
hour, just for a second.

When we talk about gasoline prices, you know, all this talk about 
gasoline prices, I saw in this last hour, they kept trying to say all 
this was President Bush's fault. The Democrats are in charge of 
Congress. They have told us tomorrow that they are an equal branch of 
government, and that they are, in fact, in charge of this Nation at 
this time, and they are responsible for these gas prices. It's time to 
be responsible to go along with your rights. The Democrat majority has 
something they can do about gas prices, but, of course, let's look at 
what they have done.

The first thing they did in Six for '06 was take away the incentives 
to encourage domestic drilling and, in fact, place a tax on gas 
production, and, thus, decrease the availability of American petroleum 
to replace our burden on foreign petroleum. They proposed a cut-and-run 
theory on dealing with the issue in Iraq, which, if we cut and run, 
would turn over the second largest oil reserve in the world to Islamic 
terrorists.

They propose now, out of the Senate, to open our borders to the 
illegal aliens that are already here and to put together a policy which 
would encourage more illegal aliens to come across our borders and 
consume 20 million people's worth of oil and gas in this country. These 
are the things that they are criticizing the Republican minority for 
causing the gas prices to go up?

But that all just gives you a picture of where we are going right 
now. Now the Democrats have come out of the Senate, remember, they are 
the majority in the Senate, too, and they have come out with a proposal 
to, they say, solve our immigration crisis.

I want to say, and I have told this to the White House, and I have 
told it to my colleagues here in Congress, and I tell them again, the 
American people want a solution to the illegal immigrant problem. 
That's where they see and know the crisis is, and they are saying you 
have the tools and have had the tools to do something about this 
problem for a long time, over 20 years, and nothing has been done. The 
American people see this as a crisis, and they are right.

You know, for 20 years I sat on the bench as a district judge in 
Texas. When people broke the law, the people of our country, in 
Williamson County, Texas, they wanted the laws enforced. They called 
upon our sheriffs and our law enforcement officers to enforce the law, 
and they called upon our courts and our juries to enforce the law. I am 
proud to say we did.

This issue is a law enforcement issue as much as any other issue. 
There are between 12- and 20 million people in this country, we are 
told by some, came here to start a new life. You don't start a new life 
by breaking the law, and the American people know that. The American 
people want something done about it.

The American people want us to defend our sovereign borders of the 
United States and to tell these people, you cannot break the laws of 
the United States and then expect to come into this country and get the 
benefits and the privileges of being a United States citizen. They are 
unhappy.

When the Senate bill was announced, I believe it was last Friday, 
before the end of the day and into Monday, we had over 1,000 phone 
calls, an estimation. I know we had over 400, I think it was, right 
here in D.C. Then our other two offices were overwhelmed with phone 
calls, all from citizens who we, you know, who are people of our 
community, who live and work in our community, and every one of them 
said this is an outrage. Do not support this concept of amnesty for 
people who have broken our laws. They have to be responsible for their 
own behavior. We raise our children to be responsible for their 
behavior, and we expect them to be.

We tell the American citizens, we set up a series of laws, we call it 
the rule of law. It is a basic principle of the Republic of the United 
States that the people respect the rule of law. Without it, democracy 
and the Republic cannot function. Yet we have proposed a bill that will 
waive the rule of law for up to 20 million or possibly more than 20 
million people that are in this country illegally.

That's just not right, that's just basically old country boy not 
right to the folks back in Texas and to the folks, I believe, across 
this Nation. They get up


every day, and they abide by the laws of the United States. They pay 
their taxes. They do the right thing for the right reasons because 
that's what Americans do. That's the kind of people we want in the 
country, people who abide by the law.

To just say that it's a good way to start a new part of our 
population by letting them break the law to become part of our Nation, 
it just flies in the face of everything America thinks is right. We 
hear the argument, we are sure they are good people. I am sure they are 
good people. They are hard-working people. I have lived in Texas all my 
life, and I have seen this phenomena all my life.

These are hard-working people. I have visited with many of them in my 
limited Spanish and find them to be people looking for a job and who 
are hard-working. But it doesn't change the fact that they are starting 
their life in the United States of America illegally. This is wrong, 
and the American people know it's wrong.