---
---

# AIRLINE FLIGHT CREW TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS ACT
## `b171606165e888b7fea824e90a4a8b7a`
`Mr. BISHOP of New York — 19 May 2008`

---


Mr. BISHOP of New York. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Let me begin, Mr. Speaker, by thanking Chairman Miller and Ranking 
Member McKeon for supporting this bill and helping to bring it to the 
floor so quickly. I have been proud to be the primary sponsor of this 
bill. I also want to thank Mr. McCotter of Michigan, who was the 
primary cosponsor of the bill on the Republican side.

The Family Medical Leave Act has been a great program for working 
families in this country since it was passed in 1993. No one can 
question the benefit it has provided for working women and men by being 
able to take time off from work to care for themselves or family 
members.

The original intent of the law was to provide for 12 weeks of unpaid 
leave if an employee has worked 60 percent of a full time schedule over 
the past year, which is about 1,250 hours. So in order to qualify for 
FMLA coverage, an employee has to have logged in 1,250 hours over 12 
months to be eligible.



While 1,250 hours adequately reflects 60 percent of a full-time 
schedule for the vast majority of employees in this country, that 
equation does not work for flight attendants and pilots. Flight 
attendants and pilots work under the Railway Labor Act, rather than the 
Fair Labor Standards Act, which covers most nine to five workers. Time 
between flights, whether during the day or on overnights and layovers, 
is based on company scheduling requirements


and needs, but does not count towards crew member time at work. Flight 
attendants and pilots can spend up to four to five days a week away 
from home and family due to the nature of their job. However, all of 
those hours will not count towards qualification.

The courts have strictly interpreted the law and insisted that crew 
members must abide by the 1,250 hours for qualification, even though 
the intent of the law was 60 percent of a full-time schedule. Airline 
flight crews have been left out of what was intended to cover them. 
Therefore, a technical correction is needed to ensure that FMLA 
benefits are extended to these employees. This legislation seeks to 
clarify the intent of the law.

This legislation simply states that an airline crew member will be 
eligible for FMLA benefits if they have been paid for or completed 60 
percent of their company's monthly hour or trip guarantee and have 
worked 504 hours. This brings these transportation workers in line with 
the intent of the original legislation and as promised when the law was 
passed.

Last month in our Education Committee we heard from Jennifer Hunt, a 
flight attendant for US Airways. Jennifer was denied FMLA coverage when 
she applied to take time off to care for her ill husband, an Iraq war 
vet. Jennifer, like many other flight attendants and pilots as well, 
unfortunately did not meet the hourly requirement. This bill corrects 
that oversight.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for his support and for bringing 
this legislation to the floor, and I urge my colleagues to adopt this 
legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.