# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `b17ad548da3c6c524bd47bf739fb64b3`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Washington for her 
leadership and floor management.

The Cochran amendment would strike the heart of the provision 
relating to Iraq from this supplemental appropriations bill. The main 
point of our provision is a requirement that the President commence a 
reduction of U.S. forces from Iraq not later than 120 days after 
enactment. Not included in the reduction would be those forces that are 
essential for force protection, training and equipping Iraqi forces, 
and conducting targeted counterterrorism operations.

This language is essential because nothing else has been successful 
in convincing the Iraqis that they have to take responsibility for 
their own country and that they must make the political compromises 
that are necessary to end the sectarian violence and defeat the 
insurgency in Iraq. Only when the Iraqis realize the mission of U.S. 
forces is going to change and that we are going to reduce the number of 
U.S. forces in Iraq will they realize we cannot save them from 
themselves, and that they need to act to meet the commitments they made 
to themselves and to us.

Commitments are only words unless they are fulfilled. Last month, 
during our debate on Iraq, I put in the Record Secretary Rice's letter 
to me of January 2007 which had an enclosure of the listing of the 
political commitments and the timelines the Iraqis themselves had 
established. Virtually none of those commitments has been met, despite 
the fact most of them were to have been fulfilled last year, and all 
but one were to have been accomplished prior to this month. They 
committed themselves to approve a provincial elections law and they set 
a date for a provincial elections law by October of 2006. They set a 
date to approve militias and other armed formations by December 2006. 
They set a date for the constitutional review committee to complete its 
work by January 2007. They made a commitment to conduct a referendum on 
constitutional amendments which was to have been accomplished by this 
month. They violated every single one of those commitments.

We need to retain this language. We need to retain the language that 
we begin to reduce the number of American forces in Iraq beginning in 4 
months because that reduction is the action-forcing mechanism--the sign 
to the Iraqi leaders we cannot save them from themselves, and their 
future is in their hands, not our hands.

The most graphic demonstration of the importance of our provision is 
the fact that even our senior leaders in this administration, while 
opposing our position, have used the growing support for our position 
to try to impress upon the Iraqi leaders they have to move promptly to 
settle their differences and to meet their commitments.

Last month while in Baghdad, Secretary Rice used the restiveness in 
Washington to emphasize to the Iraqi leaders the growth of American 
frustration with the absence of a political settlement in Iraq. She 
said she had ''made clear that some of the debate in Washington is 
indicative of the concerns that the American people have about the 
prospects for success'' if Iraq's leaders do not quickly take the steps 
needed to ensure longer-term stability.

Ambassador Khalilzad, in a television interview on March 9, said the 
debate in Congress:




 Sends a message to the Iraqis that the patience of the 


 American people is running out. And--


He said, Ambassador Khalilzad said--



 that is helpful to my diplomacy.


The Iraqi Study Group said:




 The open-ended commitment of American forces does not 


 provide the Iraqi government with the incentive that it needs 


 to take political actions that give Iraq the best chance of 


 quelling sectarian violence. In the absence of such an 


 incentive--


The Iraq Study Group said--



 in the absence of ending the open-ended commitment that has 


 been made to Iraq, the Iraqi government might continue to 


 delay taking those difficult actions.


I think perhaps General Casey said it best:




 The longer U.S. forces continue to bear the main burden of 


 Iraq's security, it lengthens the time that the government of 


 Iraq has to take the hard decisions about reconciliation in 


 dealing with the militias.


General Casey had it right. Let us not sustain the Cochran amendment. 
Let's keep this critically important action-forcing mechanism in the 
bill where it will do some good to force those Iraqi leaders to finally 
recognize their future is in their hands, not ours.