---
---

# THE PRESIDENT'S VETO OF BIPARTISAN CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE BILL
## `b181579e349103f10fae8a1ebbcb4fae`
`Ms. LEE — 15 October 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, first let me thank the Chair of the 
Congressional Black Caucus, Congresswoman Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick, 
for her leadership and for her vision in making sure that really the 
conscience of America is heard on these Monday nights. And also let me 
thank Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones for her leadership and for 
her vigilance and also, as a member of the Ways and Means Committee, 
for her strong voice on behalf of our country's children.

I rise tonight in strong support for overriding the President's 
misguided veto on the State Children's Health Insurance Program.

Does the President want to relegate parents of sick children to 
frantic calls to 911, late night visits to emergency rooms, and tragic 
and preventable deaths due to undiagnosed illnesses? The Congress must 
say no and override his veto Thursday so that our children have access 
to regular checkups, preventative care, and a primary physician.

We must stand with the American people who overwhelmingly support 
increasing access to children's health care. We must stand with nearly 
every single health organization, every single children's organization 
in America, like the American Medical Association, the American Academy 
of Pediatrics, the Children's Defense Fund, Easter Seals, the March of 
Dimes, and countless others who support their bill because they all 
understand the devastating impact of being uninsured.

We must stand with the largest health insurance trade association in 
the country, America's Health Insurance Plans, who praised expanding 
the State Children's Health Insurance Program as a vital step in 
ensuring the health security of millions of America's children.

Sadly, I believe, like many of us believe, that the President is 
totally disconnected from the reality of our children's lives. He has 
asked Congress for another $190 billion, $190 billion, to fund his 
occupation of Iraq, while he has vetoed a fraction of that amount for 
our children. This is a shortsighted assault on our Nation's children, 
and we cannot stand for it.



This program is one of the most successful programs in the Nation, 
and it should be reauthorized and it should be expanded.

When I was a State Senator in California, I helped write the 
California State program called Healthy Families, and now Healthy 
Families provides low-cost access to health care for over 800,000 
children, more than any other State. The flexibility built into SCHIP 
has allowed California to provide access to health, dental, and vision 
coverage for children. And, also, let me just say that if this doesn't 
get overridden, we don't know what is going to happen in California, 
like in other States; so this needs to continue.

Comprehensive health coverage for children is also a very vital step 
towards eliminating the continuing health disparities that plague 
minority populations, including 800,000 Asian Pacific Americans, 1.4 
million African Americans, and 3.4 million Hispanics.

Providing health care coverage for our children is one of the most 
cost-effective investments that America can make. Children are the 
least costly to provide coverage for, and giving children access to 
adequate primary health care will create a generation of healthier, 
better educated and, in the end, more productive adults.

It's mind-boggling that President Bush vetoed a children's health 
bill. It is a shame and disgrace that our children are not his 
priority. So the House must stand with America's 10 million children 
and vote ''yes'' to override his veto on Thursday. This is the right 
thing to do. Voting to override the President's veto is the moral and 
it is the ethical vote to cast. Our children deserve nothing less.

Let me thank my colleague again from Ohio, Congresswoman Stephanie 
Tubbs Jones, for making sure that the voice of children are heard once 
again on this floor.