---
---

# IN HONOR OF TECHNICAL SERGEANT ADAM K. GINETT
## `b18fad4d755afc4a67f5ad38afe8536d`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 27 January 2010`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Air Force 
Technical Sergeant Adam K. Ginett, a 29-year-old from Knightdale, NC, 
who was killed on Tuesday, January 19 near Kandahar Air Field, 
Afghanistan, of wounds suffered from an improvised explosive device. 
Ginett was assigned to the 31st Civil Engineer Squadron at Aviano Air 
Base, Italy. It was his second tour of duty in Operation Enduring 
Freedom. Ginett received a Bronze Star for his role in a firefight on 
his first tour in Afghanistan. He also served two tours in Operation 
Iraqi Freedom.

According to his grandfather, Jim Haslam, Sergeant Ginett's unit was 
walking toward a location where a cache of IEDs was thought to be 
hidden. Another servicemember was killed in the incident and three were 
wounded.

In brave service to our Nation, Ginett opted for explosive ordnance 
duty after he graduated from boot camp. According to Ginett's mom, 
Christina Kazakavage of Coats, NC, he chose this dangerous work because 
it would mean that he would be able to directly save American lives by 
searching for and defusing bombs that were meant to take someone else's 
life. Sadly, last week that calling led to his own death from an IED in 
a field that he was working to make safe for others.

Though he had planned for a career in the military since he was in 
high school, Ginett had other interests, including artistic pursuits. 
He interned for four summers during high school with cartoonists at 
Walt Disney World in Florida, and he worked in a pottery studio in 
Knightdale during his last year at East Wake High School.

Ginett's body returned to North Carolina yesterday. A funeral mass 
will be held Friday, January 29 at St. Bernadette Catholic Church in 
Fuquay-Varina and Ginett will be buried with military honors in Raleigh 
Memorial Park. He is survived by his parents, James and Christina 
Kazakavage, and sister, Sarah Kazakavage, of Coats; paternal 
grandfather, Joe Kazakavage of Port St. Lucie, FL.; and maternal 
grandparents, James and Mary Haslam of Cary.

Madam Speaker, Adam Ginett is a true American hero whose selfless 
devotion to his fellow soldiers should be remembered. I hope that my 
colleagues will join me in saluting this brave young soldier for his 
sacrifice on behalf of our Nation. I would like to extend my deepest 
condolence to Sergeant Ginett's family and to all who knew him. Our 
Nation lost a true hero and he will be missed.
