---
---

# SBA VETERANS' PROGRAMS ACT OF 2007
## `b1b9a693ad313c1b67e50c713ea946e0`
`Ms. VELAZQUEZ — 18 June 2007`

---


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

There is no question our Nation's veterans have made great sacrifices 
for this country. Many traveled long distances, spent lengthy amounts 
of time away from their families, and have been in harm's way to ensure 
our safety.

To date, more than 135,000 troops have come home from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. These men and women are increasingly turning toward small 
business ownership. Congressman Buchanan's legislation, the Small 
Business Administration Veterans Programs Act of 2007, ensures that 
service men and women will not only have the opportunity to pursue 
entrepreneurship but to succeed at starting their own firms.

While many have the American dream of owning a business, veterans 
face unique challenges when working to start or maintain their firms. 
For this sector of the population to be successful in their small 
business endeavors, there needs to be assistance available in local 
communities. They cannot be expected to return home knowing all of the 
necessary and available tools to start a business. Outreach efforts to 
these aspiring entrepreneurs need to be increased and information must 
be accessible. The Small Business Administration Veterans Programs Act 
of 2007 makes these resources available.

Service men and women contributing to economic growth is not a new 
trend. After World War II, the GI bill provided the opportunity of a 
college education to this Nation's veterans. By 1956 there were 7.8 
million World War II veterans that had participated in an education or 
training program. The impact that that single piece of legislation had 
on this Nation's economy was great.

Much like ensuring the right to a college education, as the GI bill 
did, H.R. 2366 expands business ownership. It provides specific 
assistance for aspiring business owners. Starting a business after 
leaving military service provides an opportunity for returning veterans 
to not only begin a new career but to secure their livelihood. Enabling 
this to be a viable option for some of the most dedicated individuals 
in our country spurs economic development in local economies, 
demonstrates our commitment to their aspirations of entrepreneurship, 
and represents true patriotism.

I strongly urge support of this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.