# ISRAEL'S 60TH ANNIVERSARY
## `b1c74d02857b5369aa0bdd0d4b3ffcae`
`Mr. SESTAK — 14 May 2008`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate and honor 
Israel on the 60th anniversary of its founding--May 14, 1948. Over the 
past 60 years, the United States and Israel have developed a close 
friendship based on our common democratic values and security 
interests. I strongly believe that it is in our Nation's best interest 
to further strengthen our relations with Israel and create a peaceful 
Middle East.

There are over 3,500 Holocaust survivors living in the Greater 
Philadelphia region, and many are in my district. These men and women 
serve as a constant reminder to me to the history and birth of this 
nation. I have been to Israel numerous times in the Navy, and I 
recently met with Israeli Ambassador to the United States, Salai 
Mender, and Commander-in-Chief for the Israeli Navy, Eli Marom, to 
discuss how our countries' relationship can be developed further.

Our conversation touched on our nations' economic relationship: the 
United States is Israel's top trading partners and American companies 
have significant investments in Israel's economy. I believe Congress 
has vested interest in continuing this economic relationship.

Furthermore, we discussed the state of Israeli's military as well as 
foreign affairs, from Iraq and the Global War on Terrorism to the close 
relationship between Israel and the United States and their militaries. 
I firmly believe our economies would mutually benefit including the 
potential of a joint venture between the United States and Israel, such 
as the development of Littoral Combat Ships.

Joint ventures would result in great mutual benefit by providing not 
only greater interoperability between American and Israeli militaries--
while also driving down costs for procurement by working together--but 
would also greatly enhance the already strong relationship between 
these two countries.

More than our common bond of trade and security, however, our people 
share the common belief of Theodore Herzl, who once said ''if you will 
it, it is no dream.'' A safe and secure Israel is necessary not only 
for the people of Israel, but for the future of the democratic world. I 
stand here to affirm my commitment to enhancing the relationship 
between our nations and to congratulate Israel on its 60th anniversary.
