---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `b1dabdbe8c2c8aa566c291182d1f8de0`
`Mr. MARKEY — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this 
compromise legislation which will provide healthcare for 10 million 
low-income American children.

This bill will give 4 million currently uninsured children a healthy 
start in life.

Yet in a confirmation of the White House's pitiless priorities, 
President Bush is threatening to veto this bill if we spend any more 
than $5 billion dollars over 5 years to help poor American children get 
health care.

This year alone, the President requested 40 times that amount--$200 
billion dollars--for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, yet he has 
threatened to veto SCHIP on the basis that it spends too much money on 
American children.

The President constantly chooses Corporations over Children, spending 
billions on tax cuts for millionaires and subsidies for his friends in 
big oil without batting an eyelash. But when it comes to giving our 
country's poor children health care, he can't find the heart to come up 
with the money.

Today's debate is a major moment in the history of health care, and a 
veto will place the President firmly on the wrong side of history.

By vetoing this bill, President Bush will expose himself as a 
Compassionless Conservative.

By vetoing SCHIP, the President will dash hopes of millions of 
working families who dreamed that they would be able to provide health 
care for their sick children.

I urge you to stand with those working families and help their 
children get the health care they need. Vote yes on this critical 
legislation.