# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `b1ded2ee800e9faf76f3783976d70740`
`Mr. OBEY — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, there are two sets of issues before us, the President's 
request for almost $100 billion to finance the cost of the war in Iraq 
for the remainder of this fiscal year, which ends October 1.

There is a second set of issues which relate to urgent needs for this 
year, additional funding for State Children's Health Insurance Program 
to prevent many thousands of poor children and some of their parents 
from losing health coverage; gulf coast recovery after Katrina; drought 
relief for farmers and the 70 percent of the U.S. counties that the 
President named as disaster areas; and other areas where we believe we 
must do more than the President wants to do; defense health, such as 
efforts to provide more help to veterans with traumatic rain injury; 
veterans' health, to help veterans overcome ridiculous backlogs; 
homeland security, to strengthen our ports, our borders and our cargo 
inspection systems; full funding for BRAC, the base realignment 
requirements; additional funding for military housing needs; and 
greater resources to wage the effort to root out al Qaeda in 
Afghanistan.

Dealing with these issues is complicated by the fact that this 
country and this Congress are deeply divided on our involvement in the 
Iraqi civil war, which has dragged on now for more than 4 years.

Several weeks ago, House Democrats tried to use the President's 
funding request to establish a process to responsibly end our 
involvement in that Iraqi civil war. To that end, we passed and sent to 
the President a plan that spent almost $4 billion more than the 
President wanted on the health and safety of our troops. It established 
limits on how much sacrifice could be asked of U.S. military units when 
no one else, except for military families, are appreciably sacrificing 
anything in this so-called war effort. It also sets standards for 
judging the success or failure of the administration's policy.

Now, why did we do that? Because we agree with virtually every 
general who has said that this civil war will not be resolved 
militarily. It will be resolved only politically and diplomatically by 
Iraqi factions making the compromises necessary to bring that civil war 
to a conclusion.

The President vetoed that proposal. To override the veto, we needed 
two-thirds of the House and the Senate to concur. We didn't get it for 
a simple reason, that Democrats did not have two-thirds of the seats in 
Congress.

Next we tried to send another proposition to the President and gave 
the President a limited amount of money and tried to set another more 
flexible set of standards for proceeding with this war. That failed in 
the Senate.

At that point, like it or not, we ran out of options for using this 
fiscal year 2007 supplemental to force a change in administration 
policy.

On Friday we met with the administration and offered to drop all 
domestic items if the administration would accept meaningful benchmarks 
and timelines for ending our involvement in that civil war. They flatly 
refused. That leaves us with the Senate-passed plan, which sets a much 
weaker set of benchmarks than those passed by the House.

It is clear we do not have the 60 votes necessary to end debate in 
the Senate and force a policy change on the administration by using the 
fiscal year 2007 supplemental. Because there are only months left in 
the fiscal year, no serious person can expect that it is possible to 
redeploy our troops during that time.

So the question becomes, how do we continue to press for an end to 
our involvement in that war on a reasonable time frame? The proposition 
now before us shifts the debate to the President's budget request for 
the next fiscal year, which begins on October 1.

Weak as it is, the Senate-adopted Warner amendment, with its 18 new 
benchmarks, at least does end the totally blank check that previous 
Congresses have provided. Weak as it is, it does at least give Members 
of Congress whose feet are not firmly planted in the status quo another 
opportunity to review the futile administration policy by establishing 
a requirement for two reports to the Congress, one in July and one in 
September.

The proposal before us will mean that, in September, using the 
required reports, the Congress will have an opportunity to decide what 
course of action to take on this war. That decision will be just 4 
months away.

Meanwhile, we also insist that the President accept the fact that 
there are other pressing needs, to which we have an obligation to 
respond.



This proposal contains a long overdue increase in the minimum wage 
for America's lowest-paid workers, a wage which may not bother many 
people in this Chamber but a wage which unconscionably has been frozen 
for a decade. It will contain $17 billion that the President did not 
want for added defense and veterans' health care, for BRAC, for 
military housing, for Homeland Security, for Katrina, drought relief 
and State Children's Health Insurance Program. Some items it should 
contain, it does not.

For example, low-income heating, home energy assistance and funding 
for the pandemic flu.



This proposition falls far short of containing everything that it 
should on both the Iraqi war and on our own domestic needs. But I take 
some comfort in the knowledge that even Babe Ruth struck out more than 
1,300 times. But weak as it is, this proposition does provide a 
structure and a process to continue the fight, and it recognizes 
reality.

I intend to vote against the first proposition that contains the 
President's military request and the Warner benchmarks because I 
believe they are far too weak, and I believe it is important to 
maximize the pressure on Iraqi politicians to compromise by having as 
many votes as possible for a stronger proposition. I expect to vote for 
the second proposition, which contains the minimum wage increase, and 
$17 billion of the $21 billion that we sought to respond to crucial 
national needs.

This proposition will transfer the Iraqi fight to September on the 
President's fiscal 2008 defense supplemental request, and it will 
require a vote on a proposition that would require the funds 
appropriated to be used to redeploy troops on a responsible time 
schedule. I am sure we will also address the issue on Mr. Murtha's 
defense appropriation bill, on the regular bill that will come at us as 
we return from the Memorial Day recess.

This proposition is apparently the best that we can achieve given the 
votes that we have. It is my hope that, when these votes occur in 
September, a firm majority in both Houses will see through the 
smokescreens being produced by the administration and send an 
unequivocal message to both the administration and Iraqi political 
leaders that our patience is over.

Now, some news stories have said that Democrats have ''given up on 
the time line.'' That is patent nonsense. There has never been a chance 
of a snowball in Hades that Congress would cut off funding for troops 
in the field.

Now, some people say to us, why don't you do what you did in Vietnam 
and simply cut off the funds even while the troops are in the field? 
Well, I've got news for you, that is not what the Congress did in 
Vietnam. I know; I was here. When Congress passed the Addabbo 
amendment, there were less than 500 American troops left in Vietnam. 
What the Addabbo amendment did was to cut off American aid to the South 
Vietnamese Government.

Even if the Congress were to cut off aid to troops in the field, the 
President undoubtedly would not abide by that. He would simply assert 
his Commander in Chief authority to manage the troops any way he 
wanted, and we would be tied up challenging that in the court for 
months, long past the time period covered by the fiscal year 2007 
supplemental which this legislation addresses.

The last proposal we sent to the Senate attempted to limit the amount 
of money available to the President to 2 months' operating expenses, 
fencing the rest to try to force a policy change.

All we are doing by this arrangement is to slip the timetable an 
additional 2 months from that proposal, shifting the debate from the 
2007 supplemental to the 2008 supplemental. That means our Republican 
friends who continue to support the President on this misbegotten war 
will have to face votes in July and in September on the same issue.

We are not giving up. We are simply recognizing that no one believes 
that it is possible, given the Senate's inability to produce 60 votes 
to shut down debate, to change course during the remainder of this 
fiscal year. That may not be a pleasant fact, but it is a reality. 
Opponents of the war need to face this fact just as the President and 
his allies need to face the fact that they are following a dead-end 
policy which we will continue to make every possible effort to change.