# AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY CRISIS
## `b1edd148275f87c7c600c3f8244a88a5`
`Ms. STABENOW — 11 December 2008`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, there are those who think they can play 
games with this and there are no consequences. This is not, tonight, 
about Democrats and Republicans. It is not about auto executives versus 
workers. This is about the economy of this country. We are in serious 
trouble, ladies and gentlemen. If one of our auto companies goes down, 
we are going to pick up the paper and begin to see the suppliers of 
this country go down. And they supply not only the folks in my State, 
they supply Toyota, Nissan, and Honda. They supply the Army. The same 
folks who make the axles for the trucks that our brave men and women 
are driving in Iraq and Afghanistan today make the axles put on our 
trucks and our cars.

The reality is, our national defense and our economy and the middle 
class of this country are hanging in the balance by this vote. Shame on 
us if we walk away cavalierly thinking that we can do this another 
time. Now is the time. People are watching, not just in Michigan but 
all across the country, businesses large and small, families in their 
homes, retirees who have done nothing but work hard their whole lives 
and now want to know their pensions or their health care, as part of 
something they worked for all of their lives, is protected. This is 
about whether we are going to make a commitment to the middle class and 
a commitment to American manufacturing. You cannot walk away from the 
American auto industry and not affect every part of manufacturing in 
this country.

It is not too late. I know we assume the votes are not there, but the 
votes can be there. There are enough votes in this room. There are 
enough votes in this room to give them the chance, just the chance to 
restructure. And if folks do not believe in the end that what they have 
come up with, 3 months from now, is good enough, then that is it. But 
don't 2.5 million people and the major auto presence and manufacturing 
in this country deserve 3 months, 3 months of time to be able to 
restructure, for advanced manufacturing in the future? If we do not do 
that, we are going to change our dependence on foreign oil for a 
dependence on foreign automobiles. We will be asking other countries to 
send us their tanks, send us their automobiles, send us their trucks 
for our defense. That


makes no sense. People of good will know better.

I would ask my colleagues to join with us in voting for the future 
and the economy of this country.
