---
---

# HABEAS CORPUS
## `b1fc8dcb7330b6d06c57220d98324496`
`Mr. VOINOVICH — 12 June 2008`

---


Mr. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, I rise today to comment on the need for 
fiscal responsibility and to call attention to our ever-increasing 
national debt. Building on a speech I gave in March, I hope to 
regularly provide my colleagues and the American people with updates on 
our growing national debt.



I recently voted against the budget bill that would have allowed the 
national debt to increase to $11.8 trillion over the next couple of 
years. We need to be reminded of the fiscal realities in which we find 
ourselves. We cannot continue to live in the United States of Denial.

Behind me is a chart that shows the accumulated national debt today. 
As of 2007, the national debt stood at almost $9 trillion. Today it is 
at $9.4 trillion, with each American owing some $31,000; that is, every 
man, woman, and child in the country owes $31,000. And the deficit for 
2008 will be added to that number, including an average $273 billion a 
year in interest payments on that debt.

If interest rates increase, the interest payments could be much more, 
eating up revenues that could be used for other purposes. In January, 
the Congressional Budget Office projected a $219 billion deficit for 
2008, but they did not include the $152 billion economic stimulus 
package that President Bush later signed into law in February.

With the addition of the economic stimulus bill and other recent 
changes in the baseline, CBO's updated deficit projection for 2008 is 
$357 billion. The Congressional Budget Office number also does not 
include borrowing from the Social Security trust fund and other trust 
funds to the tune of almost $200 billion.

We only talk about the public debt, but we do not talk about the 
debt, the money that we are borrowing from our own Government. In 
addition to all of this, soon we are going to be considering a 
supplemental appropriations bill to the tune of $193 billion which, 
again, will be added to the national debt.

So if we are really honest with the American people, the projected 
real debt for 2008 is $746 billion--$746 billion. That is more than 
three times the $219 billion deficit projected at the start of 2008.

Now, to get an idea of how much that is, $746 billion is more than we 
spent on the war on terror, including Iraq and Afghanistan and 
elsewhere, during the last 5 years. And we borrowed every penny of it.

The Treasury Department in April reported that the deficit through 
the first 6 months of the budget year to date was $311.4 billion, up 20 
percent from the same period a year ago. That was the largest deficit 
for the first half of a budget year on record, surpassing the old 6-
month mark of $302 billion that was set back in 2006.

The Federal deficit through the first half of fiscal year 2008 is an 
all-time high, underscoring the pressure the budget is coming under as, 
overall, our economy slumps, spending is higher, tax revenues are 
lower.

But the deficit only describes the annual difference between revenues 
and outlays. And that is not what is really threatening our future. We 
do not talk about it. It is the cumulative ongoing increase in our 
national debt that really matters, with too many people in Washington 
pretending this debt does not even exist.

When was the last time you heard the President of the United States 
talk about the national debt? I cannot remember. And he happens to be a 
Republican. One of the reasons I am a Republican is that I have always 
believed in balancing budgets and paying down debt. But we do not even 
talk about it. It is not even there. It is like it has evaporated. When 
have we heard the Presidential candidates talk about the national debt 
and what they are going to be doing about it?

Recently, USA Today reported that the Federal Government's 
accumulated long-term financial obligations grew by $2.5 trillion last 
year--$2.5 trillion--as a result of the increase in the cost of 
Medicare and Social Security benefits as more baby boomers retire.

I think $2.5 trillion is about what we spend on everything in the 
Federal Government each year. Taxpayers are on the hook for a record 
$57 trillion in Federal liabilities to cover the lifetime benefits of 
everyone eligible for Medicare, Social Security, and other Government 
programs.

If you figure it out by households, that is $500,000 per household in 
this country. When people come to me and ask me to spend money on a 
special program that they want me to spend money on, I explain our $9.4 
trillion national debt and the fact that each of us owes $31,000. Then 
I ask them if what they want is important enough to borrow the money 
and put the cost, including interest, on the back of our children and 
grandchildren.


It is an interesting question that I pose to people. And they think 
about it. After a moment, the smiles on their faces vanish, and their 
answer is no. Unfortunately, however, our political leaders in 
Washington hide the real budget numbers from the public and fail to 
even mention the rising national debt.

Most Americans are clueless as to how fiscally irresponsible Congress 
and the administration have been. The U.S. Government is the biggest 
credit card abuser in the world. We talk to our kids and others: You 
have to watch credit. We are the worst example of a credit card abuser 
in the world.

You know what. The rest of the world gets it, which is why they are 
covering their bets on the U.S. dollar. So why do we refuse to see the 
warning signs? A decade ago who would ever have imagined that the 
Canadian dollar would be worth just as much as the U.S. dollar? I 
remember when it was two to one. Now the dollar's value has fallen by 
half.

A few years ago, one Euro was worth barely 80 cents; now it is worth 
more than $1.50. I think the President remembers when we were in Rome 
together that the dollar that we had bought 60 cents of a Euro. It is 
hard to believe. Then, to top it off, because of our deficits, we are 
forced to borrow money from other countries.

As a matter of fact, 51 percent of the privately owned national debt 
is held by foreign creditors. It is supposed to be held by the United 
States; that is public debt. But they have come in and they have 51 
percent of it. That is up from 37 percent 6 years ago.

Foreign creditors provide more than 70 percent of the funds the 
United States has borrowed since 2001, according to the Department of 
Treasury. Think about it. And who are those foreign creditors? 
According to the Treasury Department, the three largest foreign holders 
of U.S. debt are China, Japan, and the oil-exporting countries known as 
OPEC.

As you know, we are sending them a lot of money because of the high 
cost of gasoline. So we send them the money and then they come back and 
they are now buying our companies and they are buying more of our debt. 
If these foreign investors were to lose confidence and pull out of U.S. 
Treasurys, ''Katey, bar the door.''

Borrowing hundreds of billions of dollars from China and OPEC puts 
not only our future economy but also our national economy at risk. It 
is critical that we ensure that the countries that control our debt, 
the countries that control our debt, do not control the future of this 
country.

To try to avert this train wreck, I have introduced the Securing 
Americas Economic Future--it is a commission--legislation that would 
create a bipartisan commission to look at our Nation's tax and 
entitlement systems and recommend reforms to put us back on a fiscally 
sustainable course and ensure the solvency of entitlement programs for 
future generations. My colleague, Senator Isakson, has cosponsored 
that.

Over in the House, Democratic Congressman Jim Copper of Tennessee and 
a Republican Congressman, Frank Wolf of Virginia, have introduced a 
bipartisan version of the same commission. In the House they have 93 
cosponsors from both parties. This bicameral group has support from 
corporate executives, religious leaders, think tanks across the 
political spectrum from the Heritage Foundation to the Brookings 
Institution. Brookings is real liberal; Heritage is real conservative. 
They all agree we have to do something and we have to do it fast.

Building on that legislation, two of my colleagues in the Senate, the 
Budget Committee chairman from North Dakota and the ranking member from 
New Hampshire, introduced a bipartisan bill that would create a tax and 
entitlement reform task force very similar to the same commission. We 
call it the Bipartisan Task Force for Responsible Fiscal Action. There 
are 19 cosponsors of the Conrad-Gregg proposal. I have a commitment 
from Senator Gregg and Senator Conrad that they were going to bring 
this bill to the floor so we could get the commission created. It is a 
16-member commission: 14 members made up of the


House and Senate, and then two of the other members would be the 
Secretary of Treasury and also the head of the Office of Management and 
Budget. And the vision is that we would get that legislation passed 
this year.

By the way, the way it works is that if 75 percent of the people make 
a suggestion as to tax reform, entitlement reform, it gets an expedited 
procedure here, and we have an up-or-down vote like the BRAC process. 
You can't have our colleagues spend a lot of time doing this hard work 
and not guarantee them that if most agree about it, they are going to 
get a vote and it is not going to get stalled like so much other stuff 
that we would like to see and never do.

The thing that disappoints me--and I have greatest respect for the 
chairman of the Budget Committee, Senator Conrad. We have worked 
together over the years on all kinds of things. He said he doesn't 
think we are going to get it out. He said that the Democratic, at that 
time, Presidential candidates, the last time I talked to him about it, 
decided that ''People don't want to do something extraordinary unless 
they are absolutely persuaded.'' I think we need to persuade our 
colleagues and the American people that entitlement and tax reform 
cannot be put off for another day. Wouldn't it be just great if we got 
this done? The new President comes in, puts in the head of the OPM and 
the Secretary-Treasurer, and they go to work. It would probably take 
them almost a year, but they would be able to come back and do 
something about tax reform.

When I tell people, they are shocked: $240 billion we all pay to 
someone to do our taxes. It is unbelievable. I am a lawyer. I used to 
do my own return. I used to do returns for my clients. I wouldn't touch 
my tax return with a 10-foot pole.

In fact, a couple weeks ago, my wife looked at our return and said: I 
don't understand it.

I said: I don't understand it either. We have to go see our 
accountant and have him explain what this is about.

She said: No, you don't. He will charge us $200 an hour.

I have to believe there are many Americans out there who have no idea 
what this is all about. We have had 15,000 changes in the code. It is 
overdue that we do this. Tax reform is a no-brainer. We have to do it. 
Even if we save half the $240 billion, think of the savings to 
Americans. By the way, that is a real tax reduction, and it doesn't 
cost the Treasury one nickel. I am hoping we can continue to push this 
with everything we have.

Recently, David Walker, former Comptroller General, accepted a new 
challenge by joining Pete Peterson's new foundation to address the 
undeniable fiscal challenges our country must face. I have known Pete 
Peterson for a long time. He is head of the Blackstone Group. He 
stated, in creating the foundation, he ''cannot think of anything more 
important than trying in this way to preserve the possibilities of the 
American Dream for my children and grandchildren's generations and 
generations to come.''

I would like to say a few words about Pete Peterson and David Walker. 
Pete is chairman of the Peterson Foundation. He was President Nixon's 
Secretary of Commerce. He was born in Kearney, NE, to Greek immigrant 
parents, received an undergraduate degree from Northwestern, and 
graduated summa cum laude. He then received an MBA from the University 
of Chicago and is now senior chairman and cofounder of the Blackstone 
Group. He is also chairman emeritus of the Council on Foreign 
Relations, chairman of the council's international advisory board, 
founding chairman of the Peterson Institute for International 
Economics, and founding president of the Concord Coalition, which I 
have worked with for the last number of years. Here is the son of an 
immigrant who has made a pile of money, and he is so worried about his 
children and grandchildren. I suspect he has a little money over the 
years, and his grandchildren and children are probably going to be a 
little better off than mine, most Americans. But here is somebody who 
is worried about the rest of us and our families.

The other is David Walker. David Walker is the president and CEO of 
Peterson. He is charged with leading the foundation's effort to enhance 
public understanding of the sustainability challenge that threatens 
America's future. If David Walker were here, he would have given a far 
more eloquent speech than I have to explain to my colleagues and to the 
American people where we are. The purpose of the foundation is to 
propose sensible and workable solutions to address these challenges and 
build public and political will to do something about them. Prior to 
joining the foundation, he served over 9 years as the seventh 
Comptroller General of the United States and head of the U.S. 
Government Accountability Office.

Here is a man who had a job, a good job, a high-paying job, and he is 
leaving it with 6 years left because he is so concerned about where we 
are. Everywhere he goes, he talks about this. I have been with him on 
several occasions. Somehow, we keep banging away, banging away, banging 
away, trying to get people to pay attention.

I have sent letters off to both the Presidential candidates. They are 
both Members of the Senate. Why don't they sign on to Kent Conrad and 
to Judd Gregg's legislation, sign on, talk about the debt. Let the 
American people know we have a problem out there and they are going to 
do something about it. When people hear both candidates talking about 
this program and that program and now they are counting up how much 
money they are going to cost, at the same time they are talking about 
the programs, they ought to be talking about the debt. What are you 
going to do about tax reform? We have to ask these questions. We are 
running out of time.

I wish Pete Peterson and David Walker the best of luck in this 
endeavor. I look forward to working with them.

The time to act is now. When you look at the numbers, it is self-
evident that we must confront our swelling national debt. We must make 
a concerted bipartisan effort to reform our Tax Code. Nothing works 
here unless it is bipartisan. That ought to be the flag we fly under 
the rest of this year. Working together, like the Presiding Officer and 
I are working on a couple pieces of legislation, is the only way to get 
something done around here.

It is a moral issue. When I first introduced the legislation that 
talked about it, I got a call from Frank Wolf, a terrific guy. He said: 
You know, George, I want to join you. I haven't paid much attention, 
but this is a moral obligation. It is a moral obligation to our 
children and grandchildren.

I think most of us down here are worried about the legacy we are 
going to leave to the next generation. We have a lot to say about it. 
These are challenging times. I am confident that with the inspiration 
of the Holy Spirit, maybe we will get it and get on with some of these 
things that are long overdue so that we can get back on our feet again 
financially.

I yield the floor.