# None
## `b1fd71e33119411e67f2891d8fbef352`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mr. Ryan.

The real issue here is, gentlemen, even before I have an opportunity 
to get a copy of the President's speech, Mr. Speaker, and even before 
our great Sergeant at Arms stands there and says, Madam Speaker, for 
the first time in the history of the country, the President of the 
United States, even before that happens, I guarantee you, gentlemen, 
that this health care proposal that the President has is going to end 
up being to the American middle-class taxpayer, a person that wants 
health care, money out of this pocket, taking money out of this pocket 
and putting it hopefully in the other, with some coming out to pay for 
it.

There will be no real program that will benefit the middle class in 
achieving health care. It would have to almost be, Mr. Speaker, an 
atmosphere to where for a person to get a true benefit, they would 
probably have to go out and get a tax attorney to understand their 
opportunities, their lucky-ducky opportunities that we hear so much 
about here on Capitol Hill.

I think it is important, Members, that we break this thing down 
before we leave Washington this week to make sure the American people 
know exactly the direction that the administration wants this Congress 
to move in, because there has to be a discussion. And it has to be 
open-ended, Mr. Murphy. He needs to say, Listen, I have this health 
care initiative; I would love to have a discussion with the Congress on 
how we can make this possible for the American people.

Now, I can tell you right now, the superwealthy have an advocate in 
the administration in making their tax cuts permanent; I am talking 
about the superwealthy. I am talking about the folks who are not 
worried about if they are going to be able to get health care. They 
already have it.

We are talking about those 47 million Americans that are stuck right 
now, and the thousands of small businesses that once provided a level 
of health care; but let's not make it so technical so that only a few 
can benefit. Some of the earned income tax credits are not taken 
advantage of, Members, because when you are punching in and punching 
out every day and you have to go pick up your kids, and if you have got 
to take them to the doctor, you are making a career decision, that is 
the reason why the emergency room is so convenient because the boss 
person doesn't want to let that working parent or parents off to be 
able to take care of his health care needs.

So this is a huge issue. But at the same time, I think it is 
important, Members, that we keep in the frame here this issue of Iraq. 
It has to continue to surface; we have to deal with it; and the 
American people are counting on us to provide leadership.

I yield to the gentleman from Connecticut.