---
---

# SCHIP
## `b206bb0de3db2f925289fbe1ead8dd57`
`Mr. KAGEN — 9 October 2007`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Mr. Speaker, what kind of Nation are we, and is anyone 
really listening? We have over 47 million citizens in this country 
going without health care coverage; 47 million citizens have zero, and 
they've been left behind. Why? They don't have the money. They simply 
don't have the money to be able to afford the impossible cost of health 
care today. People cannot afford to pay for their pills; they cannot 
afford to pay their doctor bills or their hospital tests or their 
cancer treatments. These treatments now are out of their reach. And 
why? It's simple. They don't have the money.

And what kind of Nation are we when, in my home State of Wisconsin, 
in Shawano County, 19 out of 20 families filing for bankruptcy recently 
did so only because they couldn't afford their health care bills. We 
need a uniquely American solution to this crisis, and we need it now 
because my patients and my constituents cannot hold their breath any 
longer.

Mr. Speaker, what kind of Nation are we? Let's agree right here and 
right now that we need to come together in a bipartisan way and help to 
begin to solve this national disgrace. My constituents are listening 
tonight, and so are yours. Let's end this national nightmare and 
guarantee access to affordable care for every citizen.

Now, we're very fortunate to have a Democratic majority in the United 
States today. We're fortunate because we have the SCHIP bill that will 
be coming back to the House floor on the 18th of this month, that's one 
week from this Thursday. We're hoping to get enough votes to override 
President Bush's recent veto of this essential piece of health care 
legislation.

The SCHIP bill is a State-run program. There have been a great number 
of misrepresentations about what it really is, and tonight for a few 
moments I would like to review with you what the SCHIP bill really is 
all about. It's a State-run, private program. It's aimed and focused at 
the poorest working families. It will cost $3.50 every day to ensure a 
child, $3.50 a day. Compare that to the millions and millions and 
billions of dollars we're spending in the sands of Iraq, $3 billion per 
week, nearly $400 million a day, and $3.50 to guarantee access for a 
child to see their pediatrician or their family practitioner. What kind 
of a Nation are we to say no to that?

The eligible people will be those who are in the low-income group. 
Low-income is three times the Federal poverty level. People who earn 
$50,000 or $55,000 a year simply don't have the money to spend on 
health insurance policies, which are now averaging $12,000 to $14,000 
every year.

It will cover up to 10.8 million children in our country. But don't 
take my word for it about health care. These are cards I've received 
from my constituents in Wisconsin. Joe from Hazelhurst writes, ''I am 
more likely to die because I can't afford the medical care needed than 
I am in danger of being killed by terrorists. Fix this, please.'' He's 
not a child, but he needs our help today.

Megan and Eric from Appleton, Wisconsin, ''We are a young family with 
four kids, 6, 3 and twins age 5 months. Our insurance is out of 
control. Our family earns about $38,000 a year, and we pay $520-plus 
each month to have health insurance. Our country needs to make 
affordable health care a priority.''

And what about Pat from Green Bay, Wisconsin. ''Health care issues 
are critical. We need to develop a plan to help the elderly and the 
uninsurable.'' For too long, insurance companies have been allowed to 
discriminate against citizens. Why? For their own personal and 
individual corporate profits. For too long, our insurance companies 
have been able to deny people access to affordable care because of a 
preexisting condition. We haven't addressed that yet, but we will and 
we must. Allan from Green Bay writes, ''Universal health care. I need 
affordable medical insurance.'' Rhonda, from Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin, 
''Our middle-class income cannot support the increase in medical 
premiums, copays and deductibles. What will be done for the middle 
class?''

The SCHIP bill is a great start. It's aimed at ensuring the children 
of our Nation, those who are most at risk of going without, become 
healthy once again.

What kind of Nation are we if we don't care for our own children? Our 
children, after all, we are dependent on their future. I thank you for 
listening.
