---
---

# SUPPORTING CONTINUED POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN UKRAINE
## `b2221839854f258bc59b404fca986a29`
`Mrs. MILLER of Michigan — 13 January 2010`

---


Mrs. MILLER of Michigan. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong 
support of H. Res. 981, supporting continued political and economic 
development in Ukraine.

It has been 18 years since Ukraine joined the family of free and 
independent nations, much of that due to the commitment shown by the 
people of Ukrainian heritage living throughout the world including 
those in Southeast Michigan.

 And today, Ukraine is a great friend and ally of the United States 
and a model for nations who made the transformation from tyranny to 
freedom. They have been stalwart partners in the War on Terror--sending 
troops to support International Security Assistance Force in 
Afghanistan and Iraq.

The U.S.-based human rights watchdog Freedom House designated Ukraine 
as a free country for the fourth consecutive year in its 2010 Freedom 
in the World survey. It is all the more encouraging because according 
to Freedom House, 2009 marked the fourth consecutive year in which 
global freedom suffered a decline.

It is time that we gave the people of Ukraine the recognition they 
deserve for their exemplary economic progress and continued democratic 
ambitions, especially as their presidential elections approach next 
week.

The Ukrainian people bravely demonstrated their desire for a free, 
democratic, and prosperous country through nonviolent protest during 
the 2004 Orange Revolution and this year's election is a testament to 
the enduring strength of the Ukrainian democracy. It is my sincere hope 
that the elections are conducted in a fair, free and transparent 
manner.

The Ukrainian population in Southeast Michigan is one of the 
largest--if not the largest, in the nation. These Ukrainian Americans 
are great citizens and great Patriots, and for years Ukrainians fought 
against Soviet oppression on behalf of freedom, so it is my honor to 
serve the 10th Congressional District and the Ukrainian-Americans who 
live there; and this Nation is proud to call Ukraine and her people 
friends and allies.

A strong, sovereign, independent, democratic, and economically 
prosperous Ukraine is important to the interests of the United States 
and to achieving peace, prosperity and stability in Europe, so I urge 
my colleagues to support this bill.