---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `b22b413b837a8450e053ff0dc5770ebf`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, 5 weeks ago, President Bush stood 
before the American people and acknowledged--acknowledged--the lack of 
progress in Iraq. He outlined a new military strategy that was devised 
after consultation with military commanders, national security leaders, 
and Members of Congress from both parties. He told us he had committed 
more than 20,000 additional troops to Iraq to clear and secure the city 
of Baghdad and to protect its population.

As we meet today, the first of five waves of soldiers are carrying 
out this plan on the streets and in the alleys of Baghdad; the second 
is preparing to leave. These reinforcements have already given us 
reasons for hope. Soon after the President's announcement, U.S. Iraqi 
forces began to route key elements of the Mahdi army, the militia's 
leader fled his stronghold, and this week U.S. Iraqi forces have 
conducted sweeps through once violent Sunni neighborhoods with little 
resistance.

It is too early to say whether the surge will achieve its objective, 
but General Petraeus and President Bush ask us to give the plan a 
chance to work, to support our troops in the field and those on their 
way. Until now, we have done that. Today--today--we are being asked to 
do something entirely different.

The majority party in the Senate wants to vote on a resolution that 
condemns the President's plan and which disagrees with General Petraeus 
who said before he left for Iraq that additional troops are an 
essential part of achieving our goal. They are doing this 3 weeks after 
voting, without dissent, to send General Petraeus on this mission. And 
they are doing it in the form of a nonbinding resolution that will have 
no practical effect on the conduct of the war.

Americans have a right to demand why the Senate has not yet taken a 
clear stand on what most of us believe to be our last best chance at 
success. So let us be clear at the outset of this debate about what is 
going on today and about what Republicans are fighting for today.

Republicans are fighting for the right of the American people to know 
where we stand. If you support the war, say so. If you don't, say so. 
But you cannot say you are registering a vote in favor of our troops 
unless you pledge to support them with the funds they need to carry out 
their mission. Yet this is precisely--precisely--what the Democratic 
majority would have us do today.

They demand Republicans cast a vote in favor of a nonsensical 
proposition that says we disapprove of the President's plan to deploy 
more troops to Iraq, but we support the members of the Armed Forces who 
are serving there. A vote in support of the troops that is silent on 
the question of funds is an attempt to have it both ways. So 
Republicans are asking for an honest and open debate, and we are being 
blocked at every turn.

The majority party in the House has a stronger hand in determining 
what comes up for a vote. So yesterday they forced a vote on the same 
stay-the-course resolution that Democrats are now trying to put before 
the Senate. Democrats have been clear about the strategy behind this 
resolution. They describe it as a slow bleed, a way of tying the hands 
of the Commander in Chief. The House said yesterday that it supports 
the troops. Yet its leadership is preparing to deny the reinforcements 
that those troops will need in the weeks and months ahead.

The Senate was created to block that kind of dealing, and today it 
stops at the doors of this Chamber. Even opponents of the war denounce 
the tactics of the Democratic leadership.

In an editorial today, the New York Times, amazingly enough, called 
yesterday's House vote a ''clever maneuver to dress up a reduction in 
troop


strength as a 'support the troops' measure.'' Adding, ''It takes no 
courage or creativity,'' said the New York Times, ''for a politician to 
express continuing support for the troops and opposition to a vastly 
unpopular and unpromising military escalation.''

The Washington Post was rightly appalled in an editorial this morning 
by the slow-bleed strategy, calling it ''a crude hamstringing of the 
military commanders and their ability to deploy troops.'' The Post 
exposed the details of Mr. Murtha's plan to add language to a war-
funding bill that would strangle the President's ability to get 
reinforcements to soldiers in the field all under the guise of having 
them better prepared.

''Why,'' the Post asks, ''doesn't Mr. Murtha strip the money out of 
the appropriations bill? Something he is clearly free to do.'' Good 
question. And the astonishing answer comes from Mr. Murtha's own lips. 
''What we are saying,'' Congressman Murtha says, ''will be very hard to 
find fault with.''

There is no place for this kind of chicanery at a time of war. Even 
some of the President's most strident opponents know that. They know 
the only vote that truly matters is a vote on whether to fund the 
troops. That is the vote House Republicans were denied yesterday. That 
is the vote Senate Republicans and a growing number of clear-eyed 
observers on both sides of this issue are demanding today. Let those of 
us who support the President's plan to win in Iraq say so. Let those 
who oppose it also say so.


We will not be forced to vote for a resolution that says we support 
the troops but does not ask us to seal that pledge with a promise to 
help them carry out their mission in the only way they can, which is by 
funding their mission.

Madam President, has my time expired?