# ENDING THE IRAQ WAR
## `b2446bdd26673bfa0b5bb268203c049e`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, the President has isolated himself from 
all the evidence, military advice, members of his own party, and the 
American people. He is not staying the course in Iraq. The President is 
making matters even worse by escalating the war.

He has ordered at least 21,500 more U.S. soldiers into the middle of 
a bloody and violent civil war. This President has stepped backward in 
history. He is making the same tragic mistakes of Vietnam all over 
again.

The President's speeches won't stop a bullet, and they won't protect 
soldiers from the tsunami of violence inundating Iraq. Our soldiers 
don't have enough equipment or support. Soldiers know it, but the White 
House ignores it.

Some of the best newspapers and magazines in the Nation are reporting 
the facts, and they are not just repeating the President's spin.

From the McClatchy newspapers, here is a recent headline: ''Soldiers 
in Iraq view troop surge as a lost cause.''

From the San Francisco Chronicle: ''Corners cut in rush to add 
troops; shorter training time, lack of equipment hurt readiness, 
experts say.''

And the latest issue of Business Week said: ''Military equipment: 
Missing in action.''

I will enter these stories into the Record.














[From BusinessWeek]









 Military Equipment: Missing in Action



A new Defense audit says the Pentagon has failed to properly equip 
soldiers in Iraq--just as the President struggles to find support for a 














 troop increase














 (By Dawn Kopecki)




 The Inspector General for the Defense Dept. is concerned 


 that the U.S. military has failed to adequately equip 


 soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan, especially for 


 nontraditional duties such as training Iraqi security




 forces and handling detainees, according to a summary of a 


 new audit obtained by BusinessWeek.



 The findings come as the Pentagon prepares to send another 


 21,500 troops to Iraq and as Democratic leaders levy threats 


 to restrict funding for a war that's already cost about $500 


 billion. The Army alone expects to spend an extra $70 billion 


 on an additional 65,000 permanent troops from fiscal year 


 2009 through 2013. According to Army officials, $18 billion 


 of that will be spent on equipment.



 The Inspector General found that the Pentagon hasn't been 


 able to properly equip the soldiers it already has. Many have 


 gone without enough guns, ammunition, and other necessary 


 supplies to ''effectively complete their missions'' and have 


 had to cancel or postpone some assignments while waiting for 


 the proper gear, according to the report from auditors with 


 the Defense Dept. Inspector General's office. Soldiers have 


 also found themselves short on body armor, armored vehicles, 


 and communications equipment, among other things, auditors 


 found.



 ''As a result, service members performed missions without 


 the proper equipment, used informal procedures to obtain 


 equipment and sustainment support, and canceled or postponed 


 missions while waiting to receive equipment,'' reads the 


 executive summary dated Jan. 25. Service members often 


 borrowed or traded with each other to get the needed 


 supplies, according to the summary.



 Pentagon officials did not immediately return phone calls 


 seeking comment.



 The audit supports news reports and other evidence that 


 U.S. troops have been stretched too thin or have performed 


 tasks for which they were ill-prepared. It is likely to add 


 fuel to the opposition to President George W. Bush's decision 


 to send more troops to Iraq in an effort to quell the 


 violence there.



 Already, support for the troop increase is tepid in the 


 Senate, where Democrats are preparing to vote on a nonbinding 


 statement against the President's plan. While lawmakers have 


 threatened to reduce funding for the war, few have publicly 


 committed to using the ''power of the purse'' to block 


 funding for the troop surge. ''The thing we're going to do 


 now is very important, to show the American people that the 


 United States Senate, on a bipartisan basis, does not support 


 an escalation,'' says Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.). 


 ''Even the Republicans are very timid in their support for 


 the President at this stage.''



 In the summary of the Inspector General's audit, the 


 equipment shortages were attributed to basic management 


 failures among military commanders in Iraq and Afghanistan. 


 U.S. Central Command lacked standard policies for requesting 


 and tracking equipment requirements or for equipping units to 


 perform nontraditional duties. Auditors surveyed 1,100 


 service members stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan from all 


 four military branches, the National Guard, and Reserves.



 The Inspector General recommended that the Pentagon 


 establish new internal controls and policies to address the 


 funding, equipping, and sustaining forces performing 


 nontraditional duties.