# None
## `b2491b18d0a6434144d570a71b6c61d3`
`Mr. DURBIN — 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 authorizes almost $680 billion for the Department of 
Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy.

The bill provides pay and health care to servicemembers and their 
families; funds troops with the equipment and resources they need to 
fight and provide security; strengthens our ability to train foreign 
militaries and protect against IEDs and rogue nuclear threats; and 
terminates questionable weapons programs.

It also includes legislation to complete the James A. Lovell Federal 
Health Care Center in Illinois.

It gives the VA and the Navy the authority they need to finalize a 
model partnership between the North Chicago VA Medical Center and the 
Naval Health Clinic Great Lakes.

This is a model that the Departments hope can be replicated around 
the country.

Combining separate Federal hospitals will provide better care for our 
servicemembers and veterans while saving valuable taxpayer dollars.

Given the conflicts we face abroad, this bill provides the right 
amount to spend in support of our troops. Today, the United States is 
the world's leader in defense spending. Last year, U.S. military 
spending accounted for almost half of the world's total military 
spending. We spend more than the next 46 countries combined. U.S. 
military spending, combined with that of our close allies, makes up 72 
percent of all military spending in the world. Our defense budget is 
six times larger than China's and 100 times larger than Iran's.

These funds make good on a promise to our men and women in our 
military. Our troops continue to do everything we ask of them in the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. These conflicts have taken an 
extraordinary toll on servicemembers and their families that we cannot 
forget.

The Armed Forces, particularly the Army and the Marine Corps, will 
continue to be heavily stressed, even as we start to redeploy our 
forces from Iraq. Servicemembers still do not have enough dwell time 
between deployments and the Army has seen a troubling rise in the 
number of suicides. These are indications of the strain that multiple 
and continued deployments are taking on the force. The President 
requested increasing the size of the Army to 547,400 soldiers and 
increasing the Marine Corps to 202,100 Marines, while preventing cuts 
in Navy and Air Force personnel. This bill supports the President's 
request. It also authorizes an additional 30,000 soldiers in 2011 and 
2012, should the Secretary of Defense believe such troops are 
necessary. Additional soldiers and marines will help ease the burdens 
caused by multiple deployments.

More personnel will give each service more breathing room to care for 
its wounded warriors. Others can continue the fight while injured and 
ill servicemembers can recover in wounded transition units.

This legislation creates a task force to assess the policies and 
programs that support the care and transition of recovering wounded and 
seriously ill members of the Armed Forces. The task force will consider 
whether servicemembers have sufficient access to care for posttraumatic 
stress disorder and traumatic brain injury, the signature injury of the 
wars. It will look at how well we help injured warriors transition from 
the Department of Defense to the Department of Veterans Affairs.

The task force will also review the support available to family 
caregivers as they care for recovering injured and seriously ill 
members of the Armed Forces. For every servicemember successfully 
recovering from a serious injury or illness, there is often a family 
member who has put the brakes on his or her life to care for that 
person.

Last week, my office received a call from the family of Jordan Hoyt, 
a soldier from Barry, IL. He was seriously injured in Afghanistan and 
is receiving care at Walter Reed Army Medical Center here in 
Washington. His wife Haley has moved to Washington to be near Jordan 
while he goes through months of surgery and rehabilitation. She has 
brought with her their infant child, who was born while Jordan was away 
serving his country. Haley is from Quincy. She has left her family 
behind to help Jordan recover from his injury. She has also delayed her 
educational plans to study criminal justice. Haley is 19 years old. 
After Jordan leaves Walter Reed, the couple will return to Quincy to 
live with her mother, who has already provided them with incredible 
support. While taking care of wounded servicemembers is our basic 
responsibility, we also need to support the families whose lives have 
been up-ended by the wars. I commend the committee for including this 
task force to look at the needs of family caregivers.

This President inherited many challenges at home and abroad, 
including two wars and a challenging situation in


Pakistan. This bill supports President Obama's new direction in 
addressing these priorities. In June, our military redeployed from 
Iraq's cities under the Status of Forces Agreement concluded by the 
government of Iraq and the previous administration. The Iraqis must 
continue to take responsibility for their own future.

I commend the President's increased focus on defense and development 
in Afghanistan; preventing the reemergence of the Taliban and al-Qaida; 
and strengthening economic, agricultural, educational, and democratic 
development. These goals are important to development in Afghanistan, 
but they are essential to our military's strategy. I support the 
National Defense Authorization Act and commend Chairman Levin and 
Senator McCain for their leadership.

Almost 3,000 soldiers from the Illinois Army National Guard are 
currently deployed to Afghanistan. Members of the Illinois Guard's 33rd 
Infantry Brigade Combat Team are helping train the Afghan National 
Police and providing force protection at military bases. It has been a 
difficult deployment, with many casualties. Gen William Enyart, the 
Adjutant General of Illinois, has had to attend the funerals of too 
many of his soldiers. He sent me an article he had written this spring. 
Why do the young soldiers serve, he asked? This is what he wrote. They 
serve because:




 They are our kids, they are our protectors. They are what 


 stand between us and chaos. They don't have to be asked to 


 serve. They don't have to be asked to go into danger. They do 


 it, not out of hate, not out of vengeance, but out of love. 


 Love of family, love of community, love of fellow soldier.


I think he is right. Members of the Armed Forces and their families 
make these sacrifices to keep our country safe. We owe them much in 
return. This bill takes one step by providing them the resources they 
need. I ask my colleagues to support this legislation and to send it to 
the President for his signature.
