---
---

# None
## `b24e0bb327fea60ed9c4b08b1cbbe1ee`
`Mr. BYRD â€” 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, last week the Senate voted on an amendment 
to the Defense authorization bill that designated a portion of the 
Iranian Armed Forces as a terrorist organization. I joined 21 of my 
illustrious colleagues in voting against that amendment. It was a 
dangerous, unnecessary provocation that is escalating the 
confrontational rhetoric between the United States and Iran.

In response to the passage of that amendment, the Iranian Parliament 
on Saturday designated the U.S. Armed Forces and the Central 
Intelligence Agency as terrorist organizations. Would someone please 
explain to me what has been achieved by this exchange of international 
verbal spitballs? It is deeply troubling to see the Senate joining the 
chest pounding and saber rattling of the Bush administration. I am no 
apologist for the Iranian regime, anymore than I was for Saddam 
Hussein, but I fear we may become entangled in another bloody quagmire.

We have been down this path before. We have seen all too clearly 
where it leads. Four and a half years ago, Secretary of State Colin 
Powell made a speech before the United Nations Security Council 
claiming to have evidence that proved Saddam Hussein had weapons of 
mass destruction and was an imminent threat to U.S. and international 
security. Others in the administration made the rounds of Washington 
news programs to pound the drums of war, scaring the public with 
visions of mushroom clouds and mobile chemical weapons labs. The 
proponents of war compared Saddam Hussein to Adolf Hitler, warning 
ominously of the dangers of Chamberlain-like appeasement. That is a 
seductive analogy, but it is a dangerously specious one.

Every foreign adversary is not the devil incarnate. We know now that 
Saddam Hussein was militarily a paper tiger. The intelligence that 
suggested he was an imminent threat was flat wrong. Saddam Hussein had 
no weapons of mass destruction. Saddam Hussein had not attacked our 
country. Saddam Hussein was a ruthless tyrant, but he was not an 
imminent threat to U.S. national security. Now we hear the same scare 
tactics and several analogies trotted out again, this time with Iran. 
Analogies can be dangerous. They risk oversimplifying complicated 
situations and can lead to erroneous conclusions. While there may be 
some superficial similarities between Hitler and Ahmadi-Nejad, it does 
not mean our only option is to start world war III.

We are now more than 4 years into a war that was launched by false 
fears and scary hyperbole, and here we are again being led down a path 
by chest-pounding rhetoric, without a clear idea where that path is 
taking us.

As the philosopher George Santayana once said:




 Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat 


 it.


Are we condemned to repeat the colossal blunder that is the Iraq war 
or has the Senate learned the lessons of history?

Every day it seems the confrontational rhetoric between the United 
States and Iran escalates. We hear shadowy claims about Iran's 
destabilizing actions in Iraq, with little direct evidence offered to 
back it up. The President telegraphs his desire to designate a large 
segment of the Iranian Army as a terrorist organization--and instead of 
counseling prudence, the Senate rushes ahead to do it for him. I hope 
we can stop this war of words before it becomes a war of bombs.

We have seen the results when the Senate gives this administration 
the benefit of the doubt: a war that has now directly cost the American 
people $600 billion, more than 3,800 American deaths, and more than 
27,000 American casualties; a war that has stretched our military to 
the breaking point; a war that the commander of our forces in Iraq, 
just 3 weeks ago, could not say had made America safer.

I daresay many--perhaps most--in this Chamber wish we had never gone 
into Iraq. Are we willing to sleep-walk into yet another disastrous 
military confrontation with a Middle East tyrant?

We need to talk directly to the Government of Iran without 
preconditions or artificial restrictions and indicate that regime 
change is not our goal. Unfortunately, the President seems unwilling to 
take that step. We have held only two talks at a relatively low level, 
and those have focused solely on Iraq.

Direct talks with North Korea about the issue we were most concerned 
with--North Korea's nuclear program--resulted in the first progress 
toward a denuclearized Korean peninsula in years. And yet with Iran we 
continue to refuse to discuss the issue we are most concerned about: 
insisting that they must first renounce their nuclear program. That is 
not negotiation; that is dictating ultimatums.

I agree that no option should be taken off the table when considering 
how to deal with any threat posed by Iran. But if the President 
concludes, after serious diplomacy has failed, that an attack is 
necessary, he must make the case to the Congress and the American 
people. Under article I, section 8 of the U.S. Constitution, only the 
Congress--the elected representatives of the people--have the power to 
declare war, not the President.

The President has stated his belief that previously enacted 
congressional authorizations to use force give him all the authority he 
requires to start a new war. I respectfully disagree. It is incumbent 
upon us--it is incumbent upon us--to reassert the powers granted to the 
people's branch in the Constitution. That is the best way to prevent 
another colossal blunder in the Middle East. It is the people of this 
country who pay the price of such Presidential misadventures. We, as 
their representatives in the Congress, must not fail in our No. 1 duty: 
to protect their interests.



I yield the floor.