---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `b26a5c86b22a83daeb6ad41cb511bb97`
`Mr. DURBIN — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, it is time to address some serious 
problems that have plagued the LOGCAP contract that the Army uses to 
supply our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.

For years, this work has been managed by the former subsidiary of 
Halliburton, KBR.

The controversies surrounding these two companies are many. Senator 
Casey and I have offered an amendment to help deal with some of the 
worst failures and protect the safety of our troops and others.

The amendment would prevent the Army from spending funds on a LOGCAP 
contract unless the Army Secretary determines that the contract 
explicitly requires the contractor to ensure safe electrical work, 
ensure safe and sanitary water, and establish and enforce strict sexual 
assault prevention policies.

It also allows the Secretary an opportunity to waive the restriction, 
if that is necessary to the provision of essential services.

In 2001, the Army awarded a sole-source contract to Halliburton-KBR 
to provide housing, meals, water, trash collection, and other support 
services for American troops abroad.

By the start of this year, the Army had paid KBR more than $31 
billion under the contract, known as LOGCAP.

KBR has had tremendous difficulty executing government contracts 
properly. One of the many failures of this company has led to the death 
of U.S. troops.

With our constituents' taxes, our Nation has paid billions of dollars 
to KBR to provide support to our troops deployed in harm's way. Some of 
the funds were designated to provide a safe place for our troops as 
they go about their daily business--to provide them the safe food and 
shelter they need as they put their lives on the line for us.

We, and all taxpayers, have a right to expect that this company would 
use those hard-earned tax dollars for the safest and best support we 
can provide.

What we didn't expect is for KBR, through its negligence, to provide 
conditions that would injure or kill our troops in their showers. But 
that is what has happened.

Since March 2003, at least 16 service members and 3 contractors have 
been killed by electrocution in our own facilities in Iraq.

It wasn't a problem that was hidden for years and then suddenly 
emerged as a surprise. As early as 2004, Army experts warned that 
negligent electrical work created potentially hazardous conditions for 
American personnel.



While we don't whether every single one of those deaths was the fault 
of KBR, we do know that KBR has been given major contracts involving 
wiring facilities for our troops in Iraq.

We know that in 2008, 94 troops stationed in Iraq, Afghanistan or 
other Central Command countries sought medical treatment for electric 
shock, according to Defense Department health data.

And we know from military records that KBR's database lists 231 
electric shock incidents in the facilities the company runs in Iraq.

So we know that our soldiers are being injured and sometimes killed 
as a direct result of KBR's shoddy electrical work in our facilities.

This is clearly a problem that needs some tough questions answered. 
How does it come to pass that we put our personnel in unnecessary 
harm's way so often?

The DOD inspector general sought to answer this question and looked 
at a particular case I would like to share with my colleagues. The case 
is that of SSG Ryan Maseth, and it demonstrates the level of KBR's 
negligence.

In January 2008, Sergeant Maseth was killed in Iraq. This decorated 
service member was not killed by the bullets or bombs of Iraqi 
insurgents. He became another victim of contractor negligence when he 
was electrocuted in a shower at a U.S. base in Baghdad that once was 
one of Saddam Hussein's palaces.

On July 24 of this year, the DOD inspector general released a 
scathing report describing the negligence of KBR that contributed to 
Sergeant Maseth's senseless death. The IG catalogued a distressing 
litany of KBR negligence and malfeasance. It found that ''KBR did not 
ground equipment during installation or report improperly grounded 
equipment identified during routine maintenance''; ''KBR did not have 
standard operating procedures for the technical inspection of 
facilities''; KBR personnel ''had inadequate electrical training and 
expertise''; and ''Operations and maintenance contractor facility 
maintenance records were incomplete and lacked specificity, precluding 
the identification and correction of systemic maintenance problems.''

We have paid KBR billions and billions of dollars, and this is what 
they have given us in return.

It is tragic. It is wrong. And it has to stop.

In March of this year, DOD launched an emergency effort to examine 
every facility in Iraq to determine the scope of the problem.

The results of those inspections are disturbing. According to Task 
Force Safety Actions for Fire and Electricity, SAFE, of the 20,340 
facilities maintained by KBR and inspected immediately, 6,935 failed 
the government inspection and required major electrical repairs.

Think about that for a moment. For years, KBR has been making money 
hand over fist in Iraq, providing maintenance and support for what grew 
to a portfolio of almost 90,000 facilities. Yet nearly one-third of the 
facilities included in this emergency inspection failed the inspection.

So for years our brave service members have used these facilities, 
expecting that they were safe, expecting that the billions of dollars 
we were spending on war support was devoted to their safety. Little did 
they know that--thanks to KBR's callous carelessness--what they were 
really doing was playing ''Russian roulette'' every time they stepped 
into a shower.

You don't have to take my word for the level of incompetence 
demonstrated by KBR. Listen to the experts.

Listen to Jim Childs, a master electrician hired by the Army to 
review KBR's electrical work with Task Force SAFE. He called KBR's work 
''the most hazardous, worst quality work'' he'd ever seen.

Mr. Childs found that even when KBR tried to fix problems, they 
couldn't--that the rewiring work done in buildings that were previously 
safe resulted in the electrical system becoming unsafe.

Or listen to Eric Peters, a master electrician who worked for KBR in 
Iraq as recently as this year. Mr. Peters testified that 50 percent of 
the KBR-managed buildings he saw were not properly wired. Mr. Peters 
estimated that at least half the electricians hired by KBR would not 
have been hired to work in the United States because they were not 
trained to meet U.S. or U.K. electrical standards.

He characterized KBR managers as ''completely unqualified.''

American soldiers--and their loved ones back home--placed 
themselves--placed their loved ones--in the hands of what was then a 
subsidiary of Halliburton known by the acronym KBR, and this is what 
they received.

Shock. Electrocution. And in some cases death.

Why? Because of a careless disregard for the safety of our troops.

We must stop the negligence and ensure that U.S. contracts keep our 
soldiers safe.

The story is not much better when it comes to the water KBR has 
provided to our troops.

Here in America, we tend to take clean water for granted. We turn on 
the tap and, with rare exceptions, clean water flows out.

It is not that simple in a war zone.

The Federal Government entrusted to Halliburton subsidiary KBR the 
job of providing our troops with clean, safe drinking water.

What the company supplied to our troops, instead, was unsafe, 
unhealthy, and potentially dangerous water.

A basic necessity of life, a critical commodity in the desert heat of 
the Middle East, and KBR failed to get it right, even though we were 
paying them top dollar for the privilege of serving our troops in 
harm's way.

According to a Department of Defense inspector general report, dozens 
of soldiers fell sick between January 2004 and February 2006 due to 
''unmonitored and potentially unsafe'' water supplied by Halliburton-
KBR to fulfill its contract with the Department of Defense.

Water used for washing, bathing, shaving, and cleaning did not meet 
minimum safety standards set forth in military regulations.

KBR reportedly failed to perform quality control tests, resulting in 
the use of unsafe water by our troops.

DOD noted that KBR's failure to do its job may have resulted in 
soldiers suffering skin abscesses, cellulitis, skin infections, 
diarrhea, and other illnesses.

I do not understand how a company could demonstrate such a callous 
disregard for the health and welfare of our troops in Iraq. But that is 
what they did, time and time again.

If it weren't for a whistleblower, we might not know about 
Halliburton-KBR's mishandling of the water contract. But Ben Carter, a 
former Halliburton employee and water purification specialist, blew the 
whistle on KBR's malfeasance.

In January 2006, Mr. Carter testified about his experiences working 
at Camp Ar Ramdi, home to 5,000 to 7,000 U.S. troops.

Mr. Carter was appalled by what he found there. According to Mr. 
Carter's testimony:




 KBR [had] exposed the entire camp to water twice as 


 contaminated as raw water from the Euphrates River. KBR was 


 apparently taking the waste water . . . which should have 


 been dumped back in to the river, and using that as the non-


 potable water supply. Such problems had been happening for 


 more than a year . . . No trained specialist could claim that 


 the water was fit for human consumption.


KBR's response to Mr. Carter's discovery of this substandard, 
potentially life-threatening situation? Employees of KBR instructed Mr. 
Carter to keep it quiet. Thank goodness he didn't.

This dirty water problem was not limited to Camp Ar Ramdi. Another 
whistleblower, Wil Granger, KBR's overall water quality manager for 
Iraq, reported that there were deficiencies in providing safe water in 
camps across Iraq.

For example, Granger reported that water used for showering was not 
being disinfected. According to Mr. Granger, ''This caused an unknown 
population to be exposed to potentially harmful water for an 
undetermined amount of time.''

Mr. Carter says it best:




 Our men and women overseas deserve the best our taxpayer 


 dollars can buy, and it saddens me to report that we're 


 falling short on something as simple and essential as 


 providing them with clean, safe water.


If only KBR had seen it that way. But our troops did not receive the 
clean water supplies they deserved, even though KBR made its profits.

Rape has long been outlawed as an instrument of warfare. But for 
Halliburton subsidiary KBR, it has become


an all too common occurrence. Too often, KBR employees have been the 
accused perpetrators, while the victims have been pressured to keep 
silent.

Dawn Leamon is one of my constituents. She is a 42-year-old paramedic 
who hails from Lena, IL. She has two sons who have served as soldiers 
in war zones.

On February 3, 2008, she was working for Service Employees 
International, Inc., a foreign subsidiary of KBR. She was assigned to 
Camp Harper, a remote military base near Basra, Iraq. That night she 
was brutally raped and sodomized by a U.S. soldier and a KBR colleague.

After she reported the attack to KBR employees, she was discouraged 
from reporting it to the authorities. She was told to keep quiet.

Later, when she spoke out, KBR asked her to sign a nondisclosure 
agreement.

She bravely testified at a Senate hearing in April of last year, 
telling the story of this awful incident and the terrible treatment she 
suffered at the hands of KBR after the attack.

Dawn testified at the hearing:




 I hope that by telling my story here today, I can keep what 


 happened to me from happening to anyone else.


Mary Beth Keniston testified at that same hearing in April 2008. Ms. 
Keniston worked as a truck driver for KBR, also in Iraq. She testified 
about being raped in the cab of her truck by a coworker who was the 
driver of a vehicle that was parked behind her tanker as they waited 
one night to fill up with water from the Tigris River.

Ms. Keniston reported the attack immediately. But no one at KBR 
suggested an investigation, referred her for medical treatment, or even 
offered to escort her back through the dark to her quarters that night.

As Ms. Keniston testified at the hearing:




 I am in a war zone--and, I have to worry about being 


 attacked by my coworkers.


When Jamie Leigh Jones went to Iraq in 2005, she surely did not 
expect that the most serious threat she would face would come from 
Halliburton-KBR coworkers. But that is exactly the threat she faced in 
Iraq in July 2005.

This young woman from Texas was drugged and then brutally gang raped 
by KBR employees while she was unconscious.

Rather than support her after she reported the attack, KBR put her 
under guard in a shipping container with a bed, and warned her that if 
she left Iraq for medical treatment, she would be out of a job.

Ms. Jones has formed a nonprofit organization to support the many 
other women with similar stories. She reports that she has spoken to 
more than 40 women like herself, like Mary Beth Keniston, like Dawn 
Leamon. She says:




 Part of the reason I am going forward with this case is to 


 change the system. Who knows how many of us rape victims are 


 out there?


Certainly the perpetrators of these violent crimes should be held 
accountable for their criminal actions. These women deserve justice.

But KBR should not escape accountability for its actions. These women 
were brutally violated by KBR employees--by people whom KBR placed in 
their orbit.

Rather than taking some measure of responsibility to help prosecute 
the crimes and comfort the women who had been attacked, it looks like 
KBR attempted to hide the offenses and punish the women for wanting to 
report them. Instead of being a champion for its employees, KBR 
perpetuated the nightmare for each one of these women.

It is time to hold this contractor accountable and demand reforms to 
ensure employees are protected.

That is why Senator Casey and I offered this amendment. I urge the 
Senate to adopt it.