---
---

# IN MEMORY OF CONGRESSWOMAN STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES
## `b274fc609e97d54128320c9857dae9c3`
`Ms. LEE — 15 September 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, it is with a heavy heart that I rise to pay 
tribute to the life and legacy of a great woman, my friend and 
colleague, Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones.

First, I would like to offer my deepest condolences to Stephanie's 
entire family, her son Merv and her sister Barbara. I also want to 
offer my condolences to the constituents of Ohio's 11th Congressional 
District, to all of Stephanie's many friends and colleagues, and, of 
course, to her staff here in Washington, DC and in Ohio.

On August 20th, the people of Cleveland, this Nation and the world 
lost a giant in the fight for equality and justice when we lost our 
beloved Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones. When I walked on to the 
floor tonight, I looked for Stephanie. She wasn't in the Speaker's 
Chair presiding. She wasn't on the floor moving around, energizing and 
inspiring our deliberations. It is hard to accept the fact and to 
believe that her physical presence won't be with us anymore.

So many knew Stephanie Tubbs Jones for her exceptional work on behalf 
of her constituents and for the many barriers she broke and trails she 
blazed as the first African American woman elected to Congress from 
Ohio, as the first African American woman to serve on the Ways and 
Means Committee, and the first to chair the House Ethics Committee.

Congresswoman Tubbs Jones and I came to Congress about the same time. 
We worked closely together for a decade, and she was one of the most 
remarkable persons I have ever known. Whether it was standing up for 
Ohio voters and fighting for election reform, or fighting to end the 
unjust war and occupation of Iraq, she was always on the right side of 
history. And, like for many, Stephanie Tubbs Jones was a very, very 
good friend.

Friendship means different things to different people. Stephanie's 
friendship for me meant trust. She was my confidante. Stephanie's 
friendship for me meant support. Stephanie Tubbs Jones' friendship 
meant spending girl time, shopping, eating, traveling, talking about 
matters of the heart, like her man-child son Merv, who was her heart 
and her soul. Stephanie's friendship to me meant being for real in 
discussions about political and legislative issues. And Stephanie's 
friendship for me meant a lot of love.

I always remember last year when my father passed away, the love and 
concern for me and my family that she displayed. With the loss of her 
husband, her mother, her father and her sister, she assured me that I 
needed to grieve, and she called me day and night to make sure I wasn't 
planning on coming right back to work after the funeral. And, oh, how 
right she was.

From attending events together, to just grabbing dinner or an 
occasional down moment, we spent a great deal of time together 
throughout the years. Stephanie was my traveling partner. We shared 
magnificent experiences in Israel and in Cuba. I will always cherish 
those times and memories.

It was during some of our travel together and our work together for 
the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation that I got the chance to know 
her husband, Mervyn Jones, whom she loved dearly and tragically lost in 
October of 2003. In the wake of his death, Stephanie created two very 
successful Golf and Bid Whist Tournaments in his memory through the 
Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. And she insisted that her 
friends and her colleagues participate with her.

She loved young people, and made sure that these annual events helped 
raise money for countless scholarships. I know she would be pleased 
that a scholarship now has been established in her memory.

Some have spoken of Stephanie's culinary experiences and skills. She 
would bring some of her fabulous chili here to share with us, and 
always loved to it share her recipes, especially her mustard-based 
fried catfish and her mother's fried corn recipe.

I can remember calling her on her cell one day. She was in a meeting 
in Cleveland while I was preparing her fried corn recipe. Of course, I 
didn't quite get it right, so she stepped out of this meeting and she 
walked me through this recipe, step by step.

We all have so many Stephanie stories. She was a woman for all 
seasons, a devoted mother, a devoted sister, a brilliant legislator, a 
dedicated representative of Ohio's 11th Congressional District, and she 
was a history maker, as the first African American woman to break many 
glass ceilings. And, yes, she was my trusted friend, a true friend, and 
a fabulous woman whose smile lifted us all up and forced us to be 
positive, even on days when we were down. Stephanie was my gym partner, 
as we both tried to get our physical fitness regimen back on track.

Yes, the Honorable, and that she was, Mr. Speaker, the Honorable 
Stephanie Tubbs Jones, was a great con-
gressperson, and she never lost the common touch. She would help people 
find their seats on the airplane, she mentored young people, and she 
would constantly remind us to be strong advocates for working men and 
women. Recalling her father's work as a skycap, she never forgot who 
she was, and she used her positions to help those shut out and those 
underrepresented.

So, yes, we owe Stephanie Tubbs Jones a debt of gratitude. I thank 
her son Mervyn and her sister Barbara and her entire family for sharing 
this brilliant and beautiful woman with us. Her spirit is smiling 
tonight on us. It continues to move around this floor, nudging us to do 
the right thing.

May God's grace and His love undergird her family during these 
difficult days, and may we redouble our efforts in Stephanie's memory, 
our efforts for justice and peace and equality and to make this a 
better world for all.
