# RECOGNIZING HOMES FOR OUR TROOPS
## `b27b1ff43e2eb73af0e23e3cd5fb6669`
`Mr. KNOLLENBERG — 8 May 2008`

---


Mr. KNOLLENBERG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize Home for 
Our Troops as it holds its fifth annual event in my district in Troy, 
Michigan, on May 10, 2008.

Homes for Our Troops is a nonprofit organization that provides 
specially adapted homes for our severely injured servicemembers. The 
organization is able to provide assistance at no cost to the veterans 
that they serve through a growing network of monetary contributions, 
donations from building contractors, suppliers, corporate supporters, 
and local volunteers.

John Gonsalves started Homes for Our Troops in 2004 after watching a 
news report of a severely injured servicemember who had returned from 
Iraq. He thought to himself, ''What happens to our severely injured 
veterans once they return?'' Mr. Gonsalves searched for an organization 
where he could donate his building expertise for a few weeks, but when 
he found out that none existed, he quit his contractor job and started 
Homes for Our Troops. Since its founding, Homes for Our Troops has 
provided 25 veterans and their families with homes suited to meet the 
physical challenges they face after returning with life-altering 
injuries.

The continued efforts of Homes for Our Troops has gained national 
recognition. In fact, the American Institute of Philanthropy has named 
them as one of their Top-Rated Charities of 2007. They have the honor 
of being one of only five veterans charities included in the top-rated 
category. This honor not only displays the breadth of their efforts, 
but also the speed and efficiency of their delivery.

Madam Speaker, I salute Homes for Our Troops for their tireless 
efforts on behalf of our courageous men and women in the armed 
services. Theirs is a shining example of the altruism that embodies the 
American spirit.
