---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `b27c447ca3ebb6f77732834db9bcd796`
`Mr. PENCE — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. PENCE. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I always find the majority leader's comments compelling 
and moving. He is among the best communicators I think in this 
generation of leaders in this House. And let me say as a conservative 
Member of this House who was in Baghdad one month ago, I believe that 
it is imperative that we express to the Iraqi Government an urgency 
about performing on all the issues that the majority leader just 
addressed.

But the reason why I rise in opposition to this bill is because under 
the Constitution of the United States, Congress can declare war, 
Congress can choose to fund or not to fund war, but Congress cannot 
conduct war. And the latest Democratic plan to micromanage our war in 
Iraq is ''war on the installment plan,'' and it should be rejected on 
the basis of proof on the ground and common sense and history.

The proof on the ground is this: Baghdad is not safe, but it is safer 
as I saw a month ago. Due to more than two dozen U.S. and Iraqi 
installations set up throughout the city, insurgent violence is down. 
Thanks to the fact that 20 of 22 tribal leaders have stepped forward to 
support U.S. and Iraqi governmental forces, violence in the al-Anbar 
province is coming down.

Now is not the time for us to say we will do war on the installment 
plan and come back in 60 days and evaluate.

My Democrat colleagues heard General Petraeus on the Hill 10 days 
ago. He said by late summer we will have a better idea whether the 
surge is taking hold. He pledged to report to this Congress in 
September. So why this? Why do we come here tonight with a 60-day 
timetable for another vote?

As our troops do their duty on the ground in Iraq, our duty is clear. 
Let's set aside the politics of the moment. Let's find a common ground 
and build legislation that is constitutionally sound and fiscally 
responsible. Let's give our soldiers the resources they need to get the 
job done and then come home safe.

