# HIGHER EDUCATION AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `b27e76623a024541c5a1f1e3ef11b6f1`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 23 July 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Massachusetts 
and the Senator from Wyoming. Another example of what I would call the 
propensity to federalize education is to regulate the transfer of 
credit policy that individual institutions have. If we are going to 
have a marketplace, and if students are going to have choice, then it 
is the job of the students to find out from the colleges and 
universities what their rules are. Otherwise, we go to a European 
system or a Chinese system, or a system like our K-12 system where we, 
knowing all, tell everybody what to do, what the transfer of credit 
policies might be.

So I strongly resist saying that the Federal Government ought not to 
have anything to say about whether the Nashville Auto Diesel College 
ought to be required to accept a transfer of credit from the Harvard 
classics department. I am not sure that a graduate or student in 
Harvard classics would know anything about a Nissan engine in 
Nashville, and vice versa. I am pretty sure we don't need to interfere 
with that, particularly if so much of the excellence in our system 
comes from this competition, and these autonomous institutions and this 
marketplace that allows students, followed by Government money, to 
choose and allows researchers to compete to see who deserves the money.

So my hope is that as time goes on we can have a serious discussion 
in the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and in the 
Education and Labor Committee in the House about deregulation of higher 
education. We all have good ideas about what to do. Some will be voted 
on as amendments tomorrow. If we all impose our good ideas from here, 
then they add up to another stack like this, and our higher education 
system begins to be smothered.

I have had the privilege of working at several levels in higher 
education. When I was president of the University of Tennessee, I had a 
lot of oversight. The Governor was chairman of the board. The 
legislature approved the largest share of money that I received. I had 
a board of trustees to which I had to respond. There was a faculty 
council to which I paid a lot of attention. In terms of student 
accountability, the professors graded students on a regular basis. The 
dean graded the professors. The trustees, the president, the provost, 
the Tennessee Higher Education Commission, the Governor, and the 
legislature all had their say. There is plenty of supervision of higher 
education based on my experience. So we need to be careful. We have 
been wise since World War II with our loans and grants that half of 
Americans use to go to college to say here is the money.

If the college is accredited, a student can take their choice. You 
may go to Notre Dame or to the community college down the street. You 
may go to the University of Tennessee or to Rhode Island. That is your 
choice, as long as it is accredited. Of course, some mistakes are made. 
I am sure that at the fringes some colleges are teaching goofy courses. 
Some schools are better than others.

Overall, we don't have any enterprise in America that today has 
consistently outperformed the rest of the world as well as our system 
of higher education--not our automobile business, not our aluminum 
business, and not our K-12 system. Even the Senate rarely raises above 
the level of the Baghdad Parliament when it comes to getting consensus 
on the war in Iraq. But the system of higher education, with all its 
sometimes stuffiness and its disagreeable political correctness, and 
even with the lengthy vacations and even with more tenure than probably 
is deserved, as a whole, is by far the finest in the world; and more 
regulation, as a whole, will make it worse, not more excellent.

There is one other provision I want to mention. I am glad the 
committee included this. It is a statement about the protection of free 
speech.

Willie Morris, who wrote the ''North Toward Home'' about his days in 
Mississippi and the University of Texas and New York, wrote an eloquent 
statement about how the American Association of University Presidents 
rose up about the political correctness at the time he was a student. 
That was in the 1950s--I guess early 1960s. At that time, the political 
correctness in part of Texas, or all of Texas, was segregationist, very 
conservative, and oppressive to those who had different points of view.

Today, the shoe is often on the other foot. Some deny that, but we 
know that is true. There are not many conservative speakers at college 
graduation ceremonies.