---
---

# A TRIBUTE TO CRAIG HANNEMAN
## `b291ec62fb9e2102fbc87d7f221e5d5c`
`Mr. WALDEN of Oregon — 28 September 2008`

---


Mr. WALDEN of Oregon. Madam Speaker, I rise today to draw the 
attention of our colleagues in Congress to a special leader in Oregon 
who for many years has been a tremendous public servant, citizen, and 
champion of the forest products industry, Mr. Craig Hanneman. Craig is 
currently the President of the Oregon Forest Industries Council (OFIC) 
and has announced his plans to retire early in 2009. Before this 
Congress adjourns for the year, I wanted to share some thoughts about 
what a special individual Craig is and the positive impact he has made 
on so many Oregonians.

Craig Hanneman was born and raised in Salem, the capital city of 
Oregon. He graduated from South Salem High School in 1967 and Oregon 
State University in 1972. Craig was a phenomenal All-American defensive 
end on OSU's football team, where he played under legendary coach Dee 
Andros, was team captain, and later inducted into OSU's Hall of Fame. 
This success led to Craig realizing every player's dream of being 
drafted into and then achieving success in the National Football League 
where he played for the Pittsburgh Steelers and New England Patriots. 
After years of devout training and extreme physical and mental 
endurance on the gridiron, Craig Hanneman didn't exactly coast into the 
next chapter of his professional life when his football career 
concluded.

Craig owned and managed a 200 acre farm and forest operation in Polk 
County, Oregon for seven years after his NFL career, where he honed his 
expertise in the agricultural and natural resource arena. Craig was 
elected County Commissioner of Polk County in 1985, and his 
determination and inclusive ways were instrumental in eliminating an 
inherited county budget deficit and establishing a $1 million reserve 
fund without levying new taxes. Many Oregonians took notice of Craig's 
talents and effectiveness during his tenure as Commissioner, and this 
led in 1989 to Craig becoming the first Administrator of the new Oregon 
Sweet Cherry Commission. Agriculture and Natural Resources are the 
backbone of Oregon's vast rural areas, and during this time Craig 
became widely known and highly respected for his leadership skills and 
integrity. In 1990, Craig accepted the position of Government Affairs 
Manager at Willamette Industries, a historic, global forest products 
company founded in Dallas, Oregon in 1906. I was a member of the Oregon 
legislature and first began to work on issues with Craig then, and I am 
very fortunate that a great friendship followed.

Throughout 12 years at Willamette Industries, 2 years at the 
Weyerhaeuser Company (which bought Willamette Industries in 2002), and 
5 years at OFIC, Craig has achieved a tremendous list of 
accomplishments and established a sterling reputation throughout Oregon 
and his industry nationally as a highly effective and inspiring leader 
of great integrity. Craig is the forest products industry's chief 
policy leader and political moral compass in Oregon, and his leadership 
has guided many very important and complex policy decisions. He always 
champions science over politics, and has a keen sense of when to hold 
firm. Craig's successes and personal attributes are simply too numerous 
to list so I thought sharing a few reflections I solicited from some of 
Craig's industry colleagues would best reveal the outstanding 
individual he is.

Paulette Pyle of Oregonians for Food & Shelter says ''Craig Hanneman 
is the glue that holds the natural resource industry in Oregon 
together. He approaches every challenge with extensive and sincere 
thought, and is upright and honorable in every respect. He is the 
ultimate gentleman professional.'' Rick Sohn of Lone Rock Timber 
Management Company says ''Craig is a peacemaker and is inclusive of 
other interests in forestry. He knows who his friends and allies are 
and brings us all together, and has created so many alliances that 
serve us well. He also knows his professional adversaries and does not 
cross the line with them.'' Allan Foutch of Miami Corporation Tree Farm 
says ''Craig has always been a man of his word, and whatever he does, 
he makes sure it is the right thing to do.'' Dave Ivanoff of Hampton 
Affiliates says ''Craig's business know-how, keen intellect, uncanny 
political instincts and incredible effectiveness in dealing with 
elected officials from both sIdes of the political spectrum have 
greatly contributed to OFIC's reputation as being one of the most 
effective trade associations in the nation.''

Madam Speaker, as you can see, Craig Hanneman is a special leader. I 
would be remiss, however, if I didn't note that Craig is also a great 
family man. Craig and his wife, Kathy, an educator, have been married 
for 34 years. Together they have raised three outstanding and 
successful children. Molly is a public servant here in our nation's 
capital, Paul is an Army Staff Sergeant serving his second tour in 
Iraq, and Annie is a junior at Oregon State University. They are as 
proud of their husband and father as he is of them.

My colleagues, please join me in thanking Craig Hanneman for all he 
has done for his community, state and nation. When Craig retires from 
full-time leadership in the forest products industry, he will be sorely 
missed. But I can say with confidence he will continue for many years 
to dedicate himself to his community and state as he always has, and I 
look forward to as many years of continued great friendship with him.
