---
---

# DISCONTINUING BUSINESS AS USUAL
## `b293b4ff42970d71cd7f8644a4901b37`
`Mr. CORNYN — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, as the letter makes clear, while the 
Department of Defense has the ability to fund the troops in the field 
until mid-February--around March for the Marine Corps--this comes at 
great expense to those in the Department of Defense, both in and out of 
uniform. The only reason the Department of Defense can basically rob 
Peter to pay Paul in terms of paying its bills is because other 
activities will not be funded, to include training, repair of 
equipment, and salaries. This letter makes clear that under the current 
law, furlough notices must soon be issued, potentially right around the 
time Christmas hits.

This is not any way to run the business of our Nation. Unfortunately, 
because of the way our colleagues have led the Senate, we have 
squandered a tremendous opportunity to solve the problems the American 
people sent us here to solve.

We have had 66 votes on cloture motions--in other words, efforts to 
force legislation down the throat of the minority without an 
opportunity for debate or amendment. That is a guaranteed recipe for 
failure. As everyone in this body knows, under the rules of the Senate, 
neither the majority nor the minority can have their own way without 
bipartisan cooperation. That is the way to get things done. But, rather 
than get things done for the American people, what we have seen is a 
''my way or the highway'' approach on the part of the leadership on the 
other side of the aisle. That is the reason we have had 63 votes, 63 
votes so far this session, on the war in Iraq, with various attempts on 
the other side of the aisle either to attach strings to that money or 
to impose arbitrary deadlines on our commanders in the field or what I 
would submit is basically to insist on surrender dates.

These are the same folks who called the surge a failure before it 
even started. They have said they supported the troops but yet, when it 
comes time to show their support by making sure they have the funding 
for the equipment and the training, to pay salaries, and to maintain a 
decent quality of life for their loved ones who are left behind, 
instead of acting on that stated support for the troops, have failed to 
act.

I know the other side of the aisle has given us a copy of various 
unanimous consent requests to give us fair notice of their intention to 
ask for unanimous consent, and we have done the same.

On behalf of this side of the aisle, I would ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. 2363, 
which is funding for military construction and veterans affairs.

I further ask unanimous consent that the bill be read a third time 
and passed and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table and that 
any statements relating to the bill be printed in the Record.