---
---

# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `b2955de32556714b2777b794fbf0847e`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and a special thank 
you to my colleague, the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Boswell) for 
introducing this important piece of legislation in honor of Joshua 
Omvig and his family and the heroics and sacrifice they made for our 
country, and for bringing it to the attention of this body and this 
Nation, this painful problem of suicide amongst our veterans.

Mr. Speaker, you have heard a lot of statistics today already. Ten 
percent of the population in America are veterans, yet one in five 
people who commit suicide is a veteran. Since May of 2003, 93 of our 
brave soldiers and warriors from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have 
taken their own lives. Beyond that, 35 percent of returning Iraqi 
veterans are seeking counseling within 1 year. Over 73,000 have been 
diagnosed as a risk factor, and 39,000 have been diagnosed with post-
traumatic stress disorder. Despite all of this, 100 local VA clinics 
offered no mental health care as recently as last year.

But these are far more than numbers. These affect individuals. These 
are our children. These are our soldiers. These are our marines. These 
are the patriots that answered the call of duty for this Nation. And 
when they return home, we need to provide them with everything this 
Nation can provide.

Suicide amongst veterans, and mental health issues as a whole, 
require our urgent and immediate attention. H.R. 327 will direct the 
Department of Veterans Affairs to start screening and monitoring for 
the exact problems, provide education to all staff, contractors, and 
medical personnel, and make available 24-hour mental health care for 
veterans found to be at risk.

Just last week, I saw a unique teleconferencing technology at the 
Rochester, Minnesota, VA clinic. It allowed veterans in remote rural 
locations to speak with mental health professionals any time of the 
day. This technology is innovative and unique. H.R. 327 is a crucial 
step to ensure that this type of technology is not unique but it is 
available at any time for our veterans.

I urge my colleagues to support this important piece of legislation. 
America's servicemembers make a profound sacrifice when they go to war. 
We owe them nothing less.

But, Mr. Speaker, we must not stop here. In Minnesota, 2,600 National 
Guard soldiers have had their deployment extended, probably until late 
2007. They will come back facing these same issues. We must prepare for 
them.

