---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES SERGEANT JOSHUA KIRK
## `b29711f1d166db34c08b35d3b894ee61`
`Mr. HATCH — 15 October 2009`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to U.S. Army 
SSG Kurt R. Curtiss of Utah who made the ultimate sacrifice for his 
country on August 26, 2009. The staff sergeant died from injuries 
sustained from enemy small arms fire in Paktika Province, Afghanistan. 
Staff Sergeant Curtiss was leading his unit into a hospital trying to 
rescue patients trapped inside when the attack occurred.

Staff Sergeant Curtiss was assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters 
Company, 1st Battalion, 501st Parachute Infantry Regiment, 25th 
Infantry Division, Fort Richardson, AK, in support of Operation 
Enduring Freedom.

On the day after the September 11 attacks, Kurt Curtiss enlisted in 
the Army. He wanted to protect his country and make the world a better 
place. This call to service led to two tours in Iraq and a final tour 
in Afghanistan. The sense of patriotism exhibited by his actions 
provides a striking example to us all.

Early in his youth, Staff Sergeant Curtiss learned of selflessness 
and acceptance as he grew up in a home where his mother cared for over 
60 foster children. He will be remembered for his love, devotion, 
compassion, and humor. Curtiss loved life. He was a caring man who 
always placed others before himself, a characteristic exemplified by 
his final moments.

Staff Sergeant Curtiss left behind a wife and two young children who 
I hope can find solace in the immense gratitude that our Nation owes 
for his selfless service to his countrymen. We are forever in his and 
his family's debt.

Therefore I know that I am joined by all of my colleagues in the 
Senate in mourning the loss of SSG Kurt R. Curtiss, our protector and 
hero.
