---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `b29f56e47b449862c281dce03138315b`
`Mr. WILSON of Ohio — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of Ohio. I thank the gentleman from Georgia. I appreciate 
this opportunity.

Madam Speaker, when we sent cash over to Iraq on a pallet with no 
accountability, no understanding, and those hundreds of millions of 
dollars just disappeared into the desert air, we know that we need 
accountability. We need accountability in this war for the financial 
money that we have sent there. We also need accountability for the body 
armor and the proper rest for our soldiers, the proper training for our 
soldiers. We need to be able to show that we are showing 
accountability.

I am so proud to be a new Member of this Congress that is willing to 
stand up for our soldiers and for the right things to do for America. 
When more than $400 billion have been poured into Iraq with little 
oversight on how that money is spent, we have to ask ourselves, we 
can't wait any longer for the accountability that needs to be done.

I am proud to be a member of the Blue Dog Coalition to be able to 
stand up and say what the national debt is. If we could see the money 
that we spend every month, and month after month and year after year on 
the interest debt of our Nation, almost $9 trillion now, it is just 
hard to believe that we can continue down this lane of not making the 
proper decisions and not having accountability.

House Resolution 97 goes straight to the heart of the matter. It sets 
up the issue and the framework of how we are going to consider having 
the proper accountability so that we can know where we are going, where 
the money is going. These are hard-earned tax dollars, and many of 
these dollars are being spent that are not being spent on education and 
are not being spent on health care for our seniors.

These dollars are being funneled into foreign countries that were 
borrowing money to help pay this debt. It is not the right direction.

House Resolution 97 does call for regular reports to the Congress 
that outline how military and reconstruction funds are spent from now 
on. It also says the accounts for the terms and contracts that are 
awarded by our government, how long are the contracts? What is the 
accountability of them? Are they all no-bid contracts, and, if so, how 
long are they in place for?

We need to have that kind of accountability, and House Resolution 97 
does that. It details how future taxpayer money will be spent. That is 
the kind of accountability that we need. The costs just keep climbing 
in Iraq, and we must get a true handle to know where these costs are.

The American taxpayer deserves to know the truth. They deserve to 
know what is going on, and this is what House Resolution 97 does. It 
shines the light of day on the process that is going on in Iraq. I am 
hopeful, if we can lean forward and move forward on this legislation, 
we will be able to have accountability that people will feel that we 
are doing the right things.

Our soldiers will know that they are having the right kind of 
support, and we, as Members of Congress, are providing the service and 
the change in direction to get America back on the right track.