---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b2a2d773db61813059e68190beaee888`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. Absolutely. I certainly would. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, 
for this time tonight.

I am opposed to this nonbinding resolution. This is a vehicle that 
the majority is using to bring us to this debate tonight. The 
resolution is pretty


simple in its language. It simply says that Congress disapproves of the 
decision President George W. Bush announced on January 10, 2007, to 
deploy more than 20,000 additional troops, U.S. combat troops to Iraq. 
It says this twice, in the preamble and then once again in the 
resolved.

It also says once that Congress and the American people will continue 
to support and protect the members of the United States Armed Forces 
who are serving or who have bravely and honorably served in Iraq. We 
must assume, of course, that, because it is not stated, that Congress 
and the American people will also support and protect those additional 
troops that are headed into harm's way who will serve in Iraq, even 
though the resolution disapproves of the decision that sends those 
young men and women into harm's way.

The majority knows that this resolution will pass. They would not 
have brought it to the floor if their leadership had not be assured 
that they had the minimum 218 votes needed to pass this resolution. 
Since passage is assured, we have to ask, why this language? Why 
something so like this, that simply says what they are against, as 
opposed to something that is perhaps more meaningful, like what you are 
for.

It allows those who would vote in favor of this, and like I said I am 
quite confident it will pass, to set themselves up in that very 
enviable position to say I told you so if things do not go exactly as 
planned. And no plan in war has ever done that. So our colleagues who 
vote in favor of this resolution will be in that position to be able to 
say I told you so across a variety of circumstances.

I do not believe that either side of the aisle believes that it is 
the role of this or any other Congress to tell the President how not to 
deploy 20,000 troops. I believe there is another reason for this 
language. One explanation may be that it sets the stage for something 
that will really have an impact on the War in Iraq, the way that war is 
being fought, and I think that has to do with the power of the purse.

In spite of the language that says we will continue to support and 
protect our troops, I believe we will see in the not too distant future 
attempts by the majority to cut off funding for this war. I think we 
got a preview of this tactic last week when we passed the continuing 
resolution which cut $3.1 billion in spending for military quality of 
life projects and infrastructure that is needed to support the various 
BRAC decisions.

A lot has been made as to whether or not this debate will have an 
impact on the morale of our troops. Last week in a hearing with the 
Armed Services Committee, General Pace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff told us, as well as Bob Gates, that this debate in and of itself 
will not directly hurt or harm the morale of the young men and women 
who are fighting this fight.

I think that is generous. But what Pace did tell us was that if this 
Congress begins to cut funding, cut financial support, begin to go back 
on the promises made to those young men and woman, that that will in 
fact have a deleterious impact on the troops' morale and their families 
who serve here. I think that the debate tonight and the next 4 days 
will have a direct impact on the families who support these young men 
and women, who allow them to do what they do on behalf of this country.

And that is certainly is regrettable, if that support is hurt and 
harmed, and that hurt and harm is then transmitted to our young men and 
women who are fighting this fight every single day.

I also do not believe it is the role of 535 independent contractors 
that make up the House and Senate to become five-star generals and make 
decisions on how to fight this fight or any other war. I do believe it 
is our job to look as far into the future as we can, and make decisions 
and then pass laws that lead this Nation.

I do not know of anyone who believes that a failure in Iraq is in our 
national interest. Both sides have been saying this. There are no good 
results for such a failure. General Petraeus has listed out a couple of 
the possibilities that he talks about. One is that sectarian groups 
would begin to stake out turf. This would generally involve ethnic 
cleansing. The humanitarian suffering that would go on while that was 
happening is totally unacceptable

He also mentions that international terrorist organizations might 
gain control of Iraq, and therefore use their bases in Iraq to further 
their interests.

The disruption to the oil markets and the impact that that will have 
not only on our economy but economies around the world would certainly 
occur if we have a failure in Iraq.

None of these guesses as to what would happen for failure in Iraq, 
that failure would almost automatically happen with an untimely 
withdrawal of our troops, none of them are positive, none of these 
scenarios make Iraq a safer place, none of them make the Middle East a 
safer place, and they certainly do not make America and the United 
States safer.

There are no guarantees, of course, that any plan will work. But 
telling the President what not to do is clearly not in the interest 
interests of moving this debate forward. My personal view of that 
future that I spoke about is that the effort in Iraq is a major part of 
the overall global war against Islamic Jihadists. Other Members have 
eloquently stated tonight that this war will last for decades.

I take very seriously the threats that the Islamic Jihadists have 
made and are making to kill Americans and to hurt American interests. I 
do not understand why they take these positions, but I certainly 
believe them when they tell us they are coming to hurt us.

This fight, this global war against Islamic Jihadists is really a 
fight for the heart of Islam. We must begin imploring moderate Muslims 
to stand against those few who seek to hijack the religion, and who are 
prosecuting this fight.

Let me preface my next remarks by saying that I am a Christian, and I 
believe that God is always in the business of changing men's hearts, 
and that the hearts of these Islamist Jihadists can be changed by the 
God I serve. But short of that, I believe we have only two choices, 
either we lock these people up forever or we kill them.

That is pretty harsh for a Christian to say, but those are our only 
options. I don't believe we can compromise with them and I don't 
believe they will compromise with us. I don't believe that they will 
alter their beliefs to peacefully coexist with us.

So we are in a fight that will last for years and for decades. There 
is no guarantee as to how this fight is being prosecuted and how we win 
this fight, I just know that we cannot lose it. And this resolution 
tonight does not move that process forward in a positive way.

We are in a long and hard struggle to protect freedom and liberty 
here and around the world. We are blessed by men and women who are 
willing to risk everything to defend you and me every minute of every 
day.

This resolution does not help in that struggle. And I urge my 
colleagues to vote against it.