---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2011
## `b2a5f28d2ba4467fa6d76533dcc5c0b5`
`Mr. HOLT — 28 July 2010`

---


Mr. HOLT. Madam Chair, I want to thank the Rules Committee for making 
this amendment in order and for the strong support and encouragement I 
have received in this effort from the chairman of the Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs subcommittee. The gentleman from 
Texas' leadership of the subcommittee and his concern and compassion 
and advocacy for the needs of veterans is truly an inspiration.

Madam Chair, we have few responsibilities as solemn and as important 
as ensuring that our veterans receive the care that we have promised 
them as a Nation. To that end, my amendment directs the Department of 
Veterans Affairs to allocate $20 million for direct advertising, the 
use of online social media and other media for suicide prevention 
outreach. Let me take a moment to tell you why this issue means so much 
to me, and I would like to tell you about one very remarkable family 
from my central New Jersey congressional district.

A little over a week ago, on July 14, I had the privilege of 
introducing Mrs. Linda Bean of East Brunswick, New Jersey, to the House 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs. Linda was appearing before the 
Oversight and Investigations subcommittee to tell the story of how her 
son, Coleman, came to take his own life in September 2008. Linda made 
it clear why she had traveled to Washington to, I would say, 
courageously share her family's painful story: ''I owe a duty to my son 
and our debt to the men with whom Coleman served.''

You see, Coleman was a two-tour veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
Like so many of our troops who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
Coleman developed post-traumatic stress disorder. In between and after 
those tours, he sought treatment for his PTSD. Because Sergeant Bean 
was a member of the Individual Ready Reserve, the so-called IRR--a pool 
of reserve soldiers not assigned to any unit but available for 
mobilization if needed--he could not get treatment for his condition 
because the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs refused to take 
ownership of Sergeant Bean and the thousands like him. A few weeks 
after Coleman took his life, the VA called to confirm his next 
appointment.

As Linda closed her testimony before the House Veterans' Affairs 
Committee, she relayed how one VA official had told her, ''If they 
won't walk through the door, we can't help them.'' Linda's response 
must be our response: ''Of course we can help them. It is our duty to 
figure out how, not theirs.''

Earlier this year, I secured the inclusion of a suicide prevention 
provision in the annual defense authorization bill that would require 
the Secretary of Defense to conduct periodic telephone or in-person 
outreach and counseling calls to reservists like Coleman. The idea is 
to check on the IRR member's mental, emotional and professional well-
being and to identify and treat any IRR


members who are deemed to be at risk of harming themselves.

Because the other body has thus far failed to act on the fiscal year 
2011 authorization, I have sent a letter to Secretaries Gates and 
Shinseki asking that they take whatever administrative action is 
necessary to reach out and monitor this very large pool of at-risk 
reservists. I have also asked that they meet with Greg and Linda Bean 
and explain in detail what those departments intend to do to prevent 
other Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans from suffering Coleman's fate.

Our commitment to reducing suicides among our veterans must be 
comprehensive and unwavering. This amendment today is designed to give 
the VA the resources and the direction to get appropriate and broad-
based outreach under way as soon as President Obama signs this bill. I 
hope this amendment will be supported on a bipartisan basis, because, 
as Linda Bean says, ''It's not their job to figure out how, it's 
ours.''

I yield to the gentleman from Texas.