# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS THAT THE UNITED STATES HAS A MORAL  RESPONSIBILITY TO MEET THE NEEDS OF THOSE PERSONS, GROUPS AND  COMMUNITIES THAT ARE IMPOVERISHED, DISADVANTAGED OR OTHERWISE IN  POVERTY
## `b2b45d303f1640f2c4f2e6ef513e99ea`
`Mr. STARK â€” 22 January 2008`

---


Mr. STARK. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of resolving 
to cut poverty in half over the next 10 years. America is the richest 
country in the history of the world, yet 37 million Americans languish 
in poverty. The poverty rate is an inexcusable 17 percent for all 
children and 33 percent for black children. As a body, Congress has a 
moral obligation to alleviate poverty and provide all people with 
opportunities to lead healthy and independent lives.

The resolution, H. Con. Res. 198, before us is simple: it puts 
Congress and the Nation on the clock and acknowledges our collective 
responsibility to the impoverished and disadvantaged. As a country, we 
spend more than all other countries combined on our military and 
ongoing wars. Yet, our poverty rate is dead last among developed 
nations. Clearly, we have the financial ability to drastically reduce 
the number of people living in poverty. The question is do we have the 
political will.

I believe the answer is yes. During the 1960s the poverty rate fell 
from over 22.2 percent to 12.6 percent. These gains were brought about 
by the creation and expansion of a strong safety net supported by 
programs such as Medicaid, food stamps, and AFDC. Now, the safety net 
is frayed and under constant attack from those who don't blink when 
approving the $500 billion to fight the Iraq war, but would like to see 
crucial entitlement programs ''wither on the vine.'' This resolution 
rejects the failed ideology that has brought us the manmade disaster in 
New Orleans and the shame of an additional 5 million people living in 
poverty since 2000.

As we celebrate Martin Luther King's birthday, we must redouble our 
efforts to fight poverty. Congress has to expand SCHIP and continue 
moving toward universal health care. We need to ensure that all 
families can afford childcare, decent housing, nutritious meals, and a 
good education. These are basic human rights. As a society, our 
obligation is to lift those who are disadvantaged and provide 
opportunities. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution and 
rededicate ourselves to eradicating poverty.