---
---

# None
## `b2b55ebe84498185481412f7af139500`
`Mr. DURBIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Texas for 
explaining his amendment. But when I hear him describe the Levin-Reed 
amendment, I am afraid I don't recognize it because, unfortunately, the 
Senator from Texas has failed to include some of the most important 
elements of this Levin-Reed amendment.

This is the only amendment the Senate will consider during debate on 
this bill which will change the policy of the war in Iraq. It is the 
only amendment which establishes a timetable to bring this war to a 
responsible end. It is the only amendment which in law will require 
American troops to start to come home, the Levin-Reed amendment.

The amendment offered by the Senator from Texas is a sense-of-the-
Senate resolution. A sense-of-the-Senate resolution is done on a 
regular basis on the floor of the Senate. It does not have the power 
and impact of law. It is an observation made by the Senate. That is 
all. It is not binding on the President. It won't change the policy. 
There is no suggestion that it even could.

What the Senator from Texas brings to us is the possibility that 
things could get worse in Iraq than they are today, and that is a 
possibility. But let's be very honest about the state of Iraq today. It 
is a nation in chaos. It is a nation that is engulfed by its own civil 
war. It is struggling to decide which faction within its nation will 
govern. Frankkly, some question whether it will be a nation. I think 
the Kurds, for example, given their way, would be independent of Iraq 
as we know it today. This struggle to define Iraq is part of the chaos 
and consternation we find in that country.

Finally, of course, this civil war is driven by so many elements--
criminal elements, al-Qaida elements, Ba'athist elements, Iranian 
elements, and, yes, a civil war generated by a division within Islam 
that has gone on for more than 14 centuries. It is into this crucible 
of hate and killing that we have sent 170,000 American troops who each 
morning get up, strap on their armor, and go out and pray to God they 
will live for another day. Is that what we bargained for when President 
Bush said we had to rid ourselves of Saddam Hussein and weapons of mass 
destruction?

The Senator from Texas makes the argument that if we leave, things 
could get worse. It is possible. But I will tell you this: 
Stabilization will occur on Iraqi terms whenever the American military 
departs, and it is likely to be chaotic. We have to acknowledge that. 
Whether we leave in 10 months or 10 years, the Iraqis have to decide 
their own future.

The elements of the Levin-Reed amendment which the Senator from Texas 
does not acknowledge are absolutely essential. He will find, when he 
reads the Levin-Reed amendment, on page 3, paragraph 3, we will still 
have troops engaged in targeted counterterrorism operations against al-
Qaida and al-Qaida-affiliated organizations and other international 
terrorist organizations.

The Senator from Texas suggests that we will leave and walk away from 
the scene and hope for the best. That is not true. Under Levin-Reed, we 
will continue to fight al-Qaida, the fight which we should have been 
dedicated to from 9/11 forward and a fight which by this time should 
have brought us Osama bin Laden and his major lieutenants.

Secondly, the argument made by the Senator from Texas is that the 
Levin-Reed amendment is going to lead to a broader regional conflict as 
American troops start to come home. I recommend for reading by the 
Senator from Texas page 2 of the amendment, which goes into graphic 
detail about our hope that as we start to withdraw, as our troops start 
to withdraw from Iraq, we will initiate a comprehensive, diplomatic, 
political, and economic strategy that includes sustained engagement 
with Iraq's neighbors and the international community for working out 
collective stability in that country.

I would say to my friend from Texas, what he has suggested as part 
and parcel of the result of Levin-Reed is already taken care of. We 
want to start bringing American troops home. Losing 100 American 
soldiers every month, 1,000 seriously wounded, $12 billion in 
taxpayers' money, put into a situation which is nothing short of a 
civil war, is unacceptable.

The future of Iraq is in the hands of the Iraqis. They have to stand 
up and defend their own country. They have to decide their own future. 
Is it likely to be smooth sailing as we leave? No. But it is a process 
which will take place whether we leave within a few months or a year or 
wait much longer.

I encourage my colleagues to look honestly at this Cornyn amendment. 
As I reflect on it, I don't think it offers any serious challenge. None 
of us want to see a failed Iraq. But let's remember that the bottom 
line is the only


amendment which will change the policy in Iraq is the amendment by 
Senators Levin and Reed which we will vote on, after an all-night 
session, first thing tomorrow morning.

I yield the floor.