---
---

# None
## `b2b60991f36f574b6d685f5ad68ad004`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 27 January 2010`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the service of 
the Rhode Island Air National Guard members who deployed to Haiti on 
Friday, January 22nd, to assist in the critical aid and evacuation 
effort taking place after the devastating earthquake that hit the 
country two weeks ago. Immediately after the earthquake struck, members 
of the U.S. armed services, first responders and relief agencies began 
their work to help the people of Haiti recover from this tragedy. With 
an alarming death toll of over one hundred thousand and the number of 
displaced Haitians reaching one million, the national and the 
international community must do all it can to support and help rebuild 
this shattered nation.

I am especially proud that the 143rd Airlift Wing, based out of 
Quonset Point Air National Guard Station, is helping in this recovery 
effort with transport and medical evacuation assistance. They will 
provide critical assets to the relief operation and will help deliver 
aid and supplies expeditiously to the Haitian people. During the past 
several years, the 143rd has answered their call to duty with the 
courage and bravery our Nation has come to rely on from our National 
Guard. The 143rd provided assistance to the citizens of New Orleans 
after Hurricane Katrina, made numerous tours to Iraq and have recently 
deployed again to Afghanistan. Both our state and our nation are 
incredibly grateful for their service and the service of all our men 
and women in uniform serving at home and abroad. I hope all our Rhode 
Island National Guard members return home safely and soon.
