---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `b2c3a432b4e530e182ae868a9f0cd973`
`Mr. ROBERTS — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, I want to take a moment to honor those 
veterans who have served their Nation as quiet heroes. These quiet 
heroes, otherwise known as Atomic Veterans, were exposed unknowingly to 
ionizing radiation resulting from atomic testing conducted between 
1945-1963.

Sacrifice in the service of your country can take many different 
forms. We see it everyday in our military efforts in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. We see it in the hospital beds of Walter Reed and VA 
hospitals nationwide. It is our duty as Americans, to honor the 
sacrifice made by our Nation's servicemembers.

In the case of the Atomic Veterans, sacrifice was not necessarily 
something that happened on the battlefield, nor on the navel fleet. The 
price that many Atomic Veterans paid came due after their years of 
military service, when enduring mysterious cancers and other medical 
conditions related to their exposure to ionizing radiation. Their fight 
continues and the time is long overdue to recognize what, for some, has 
become the ultimate sacrifice.

In recognition of the silent sacrifices made by these American 
heroes, I am introducing the Atomic Veterans Medal Act. It is the 
Senate companion to H.R. 3471, offered by my colleague, Congressman 
Todd Tiahrt, in the House. We owe a debt of gratitude to brave 
Americans who have worn the uniform. It is my hope that this measure 
helps to show the respect and honor these Atomic Veterans deserve.