---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `b2c68cd2670d60f9b0a5816a5fb365d0`
`Ms. PELOSI — 13 March 2008`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

May I begin by thanking the gentleman from South Carolina, Mr. 
Spratt, the chairman of the Budget Committee, for his masterly work in 
bringing this budget before us. It is fiscally sound. It is a 
responsible blueprint to build our economy, moving us forward and 
strengthening our national security. The Democratic budget, which is 
the budget for our country, puts the future first. It is about future 
generations, and it moves us to surplus by 2012.

Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the fiscal soundness of this budget.

While being fiscally sound, the budget is also a plan again to get 
our country moving. It is a budget for the future by putting family 
budgets first, helping make affordable everything from energy to 
groceries to college education, helping families avoid foreclosures, 
and lowering, lowering, taxes. It provides for us to have middle-income 
tax cuts. This is about America's families and their economic security.

It invests in the future by investing in renewable energy to make 
America more energy independent and secure and to create green jobs. It 
is a blueprint for a green revolution in our country.

It creates a new generation of innovators by investing in math, 
science, engineering and technology, to keep good-paying jobs here in 
America. In total, we provide $7.1 billion more than last year for 
education and job training.

It rebuilds America's crumbling infrastructure, which again is an 
engine of job creation, and makes health care more affordable for 
families and veterans. VA health care will receive a $3.6 billion 
increase to care for the men and women who have defended America.

I read this list of provisions in the bill to show that this budget 
is really a statement of our values. It shows to the American people 
that we indeed care about them and the budget that we write is relevant 
to their lives. These are priorities that leading economic experts have 
said will put our Nation on solid economic footing.

Our budget is also a plan for a stronger America that begins to 
restore military readiness and better protect Americans against 
terrorism. Many of you know that the distinguished chairman of the 
Budget Committee is also the second-highest ranking Democrat on the 
Armed Services Committee, so he brings to this budget process a full 
knowledge of our national security needs, a full commitment to our 
military and their families, and dedication to our veterans which has 
been unsurpassed.

In this bill in terms of national security, ours is a plan to make 
Americans safer and stands in stark contrast to the President's 
priorities in Iraq. That misguided war has badly strained our military, 
distracted us from the fight against terrorism, and damaged our 
reputation in the world. In fact, the funds committed to that war, some 
say $3 trillion, huge amounts of money, not only are an opportunity 
cost for investments here at home in our own education and 
reconstruction and military readiness, but the deep debt that we are 
incurring because of the war in Iraq is damaging to our economy. We 
cannot continue to borrow to pay for the war in Iraq and not see it 
have an impact on our economy, and that is in addition to the rising 
cost of oil prices that are related to the war in Iraq as well.



We begin in our national security to reestablish America's strength 
by rebuilding our military, investing in equipment and training that 
our military requires, and making caring for our troops, veterans, and 
military families a top priority.

Our plan stands in stark contrast to the President's priorities and 
the Republican budget, which would undermine health care for seniors 
and working families by cutting Medicare and Medicaid over half a 
trillion dollars over the next 10 years and charge veterans and 
military retirees more than $18 billion in new fees over 5 years. Our 
budget does not do that. The Republican budget puts the burden of 
additional fees on our veterans.

The Republican budget eliminates essential funding for State and 
local law enforcement and cuts EPA grants that would help protect our 
planet and our health.



On inauguration day 2009, President Bush will move out of the White 
House. But, unfortunately, his fiscal legacy will remain unless we can 
reverse that.

The Bush administration turned a projected $5.6 trillion surplus, I 
heard our distinguished majority leader talking about this earlier, 
into a $3.2 trillion deficit. That is historic, that is a historic 
fiscal turnaround of epic proportions, nearly a $10 trillion swing in 
fiscal soundness. The President leaves a record of breathtaking fiscal 
recklessness.

Budgets are more than just accounting documents. Budgets, our Federal 
budget, I believe, should be a statement of our national values. What 
we believe in our Nation should be reflected in the allocation of our 
resources, in our budget.

With this budget, the New Direction Congress and under the leadership 
of Chairman Spratt is saying that we value families and their economic 
future, we will fight to insure their hard work is rewarded, and that 
the American Dream is renewed.

With this statement of our values, we are saying that we do value our 
valiant men and women in uniform. We will insist that they receive the 
tools and training they need to perform their mission, and that when 
they return home, they will come to high quality health care.

And we were saying in this statement that we value our children. We 
will invest in their education, their health care, and their future, 
and do this without leaving them a legacy of debt.

My colleagues, we must make clear that the American values are the 
values of this House. We should have a statement of the values of the 
American people in the budget that we put forth, and we do today, to 
invest in our children's health and education and strengthening 
families, to provide for the national security of our country by 
rebuilding our military and respecting our responsibility to our 
veterans, by investing in the future and innovation and new energy 
technologies and the education that goes with it. We must make clear 
that this is a budget plan for a stronger America, for stronger 
families, for a stronger economy, and a stronger military.

I urge my colleagues to support with great pride the budget put forth 
by Mr. Spratt in the Budget Committee this evening.