# None
## `b2dc263a9b6804f1a5c60262a59eea5d`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 26 March 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you, Mr. Meek and Mr. Murphy, it is 
great to be here again.



I had an opportunity to engage in some dialogue with the caucus 
chairman on the Republican side, the gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
Putnam). I fully expected to be engaged in a point-counterpoint 
discussion on the U.S. Attorney General and the U.S. Attorney scandal, 
and that he would be defensive, as many of his colleagues have been. 
But knowing Mr. Putnam as we do, he was very frustrated. He expressed 
deep concern. He was beyond comprehension how the administration could 
have dealt with this problem in the way that they did.

I was asked how I felt about it as a member of the Judiciary 
Committee. Quite honestly, under normal circumstances the President 
does have the right to appoint and unappoint and ask for the 
resignation of U.S. Attorneys that serve at his pleasure. Had it been a 
matter of him just saying, yes, I asked for their resignation, we have 
some other needs, we are moving in a different direction, whatever he 
said, just be straight with the American people. Just be straight with 
the Congress. If he had said, yes, I asked for their resignation, I can 
do that, I am the President. Fine.

But, instead, it is fabrication, it is distortion, it is no, it was 
not him, it was the guy behind the tree. It was his mother. Just own up 
to what you did.

Now, if the problem is what you did, you asked for their resignation 
because they were too good at their job and they were pursuing public 
corruption cases against Republicans, and we have colleagues that 
picked up the phone and put some pressure on these U.S. Attorneys whose 
resignation ultimately was asked for, that is a horse of a different 
color.

But this would have never exploded to the level it has if they had 
just said, yes, we did. What I pointed out in my conversion with Mr. 
Putnam, in past years, and I was happy to see he was frustrated and 
concerned and there is bipartisan concern about the action that this 
administration has taken repeatedly on the war in Iraq, on the U.S. 
Attorney firings, and on the handling of the Valerie Plame issue, and 
the list goes on and on.

Had there not been Democrats in charge of the Congress, this would 
have been another thing that would have been swept aside. They would 
have moved on or waited it out. They would have squeezed their eyes 
tight shut and hoped that this, too, would pass.