---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE OF FALLEN ARMY RANGER CORPORAL MICHAEL  JANKIEWICZ
## `b2df1897425bc589e6043b9e81b6c217`
`Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey — 15 April 2010`

---


Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey. Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor of 
Corporal Michael Jankiewicz, a recently fallen Army Ranger. Only 23 
years old, this young man was killed in Afghanistan on April 9 when his 
Osprey helicopter crashed in Zabul province, just about 200 miles 
southwest of Kabul.

Michael grew up in my district. After graduating from Ramsey High 
School in 2006, he pursued his childhood dream and enlisted in the U.S. 
Army. You know, his father recalled that, even at 3 years old, Michael 
was talking about becoming a U.S. soldier. While pursuing his dream, he 
became a true hero, serving two tours in Iraq and two additional tours 
in Afghanistan with the 75th Ranger Regiment stationed out of Fort 
Benning, Georgia.

As an active Army Ranger, he saw some of the most dangerous action, 
but when Michael talked about his service to his family, his father 
says he would typically just say, ''I just can't wait to get back to my 
platoon.''

This young corporal was part of our Nation's premier light infantry 
force. Every day that he wore his uniform, he dedicated his best to 
this great country. He was among some of the best soldiers in the world 
because of the careful screening process and arduous training the 
Rangers must endure.

Michael is survived by his mother, Serena; by his father and 
stepmother, Anthony and Carmen; by his grandfather, Abraham Friedman; 
by his sister, Michelle; by his stepsister, Noemi Cagley; and by his 
stepbrother, Hector Emmanuelli.

His dedication to his country and to his fellow soldiers represents 
his tremendous sense of loyalty and selflessness. Corporal Michael 
Jankiewicz is a true American hero. His country will never forget him. 
He will never be forgotten by his friends, by his family, or by this 
country for whom he fought.
