# TRIBUTE TO LTC JOHN H. BURSON III, MD
## `b2e345a7d981b95ddb67dfb25a996067`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 21 May 2009`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for yielding and also 
rise in recognition of Lieutenant Colonel Burson and his incredible 
life story. Lieutenant Colonel Burson volunteered for reserve duty in 
Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom at the age of 70 
in order to relieve active-duty doctors so they could carry out other 
duties. To this end, he searched nationwide for military units in need 
of a medical doctor and even delayed the celebration of his 50th 
wedding anniversary for his upcoming deployment with the medical unit 
of the Indiana National Guard.

Lieutenant Colonel Burson was assigned as medical officer for the 
U.S. Embassy in Iraq from November 2005 to March 2006 and served as one 
of the doctors overseeing treatment of former Iraqi President Saddam 
Hussein. During this time, he was part of the team that successfully 
convinced Hussein to end his hunger strike. He did this while also 
performing surgery and treating patients at a nearby trauma/emergency 
care unit. Lieutenant Colonel Burson was 71 by the time he completed 
this deployment.

At such a point in life, many men and women are well into their 
retirements. However, after his first deployment to Iraq, Lieutenant 
Colonel Burson instead renewed his search for a combat arms unit in 
need of a doctor during the 2007 troop surge in Iraq. He served an 
additional deployment with an Army Reserve military police battalion 
from Raleigh, NC, from August 2007 to November 2007 at age 73.

Today, as we stand before you on this floor, this extraordinary 
American will have just returned home after his third combat 
deployment. At 75 years of age, he has just completed another full 
tour, this time in Afghanistan.

MR. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for his kind 
observations regarding Dr. Burson's service. Lieutenant Colonel Burson 
illustrates the selflessness, commitment to excellence, and courage 
that exemplifies American character. We applaud the altruistic manner 
with which he has undertaken and completed each mission. Three combat 
tours can wear on the best of men, but Lieutenant Colonel Burson has 
met these challenges head on and succeeded. As long as this great 
Nation has men like Colonel Burson, who hold true to the values that 
reveal the best in us, we will remain a world leader.



