---
---

# None
## `b2e431b39a4ea849d8aefe9d208e6e45`
`Mr. GILCHREST — 14 May 2008`

---


Mr. GILCHREST. Madam Speaker, I rise today to submit a poem penned by 
Albert Caswell of The United States Capitol Guide Service, in honor of 
a real American hero, Army Specialist Armer Nathan Burkart, on the eve 
of the 2nd anniversary of his gallant life and most tragic death in 
Baghdad, Iraq, on May 11, 2006. A Rockville native who gave that last 
full measure for all of us. Remember him this coming Memorial Day.
















 Armer All



 Armer All . . .


 Strength in honor, an American Hero who heard the call!


 Who so marched off to war like all of his fine forefathers 





 have done so before!



 A man of character, and faith . . .


 A brave heart, who but to his country 'tis of thee so gave 





 and gave!


 But All . . . But, his fine life . . . he who so sacrificed, 





 showing us all how to behave!



 A soul,


 One's being, so deep down inside one's heart which holds!


 The Armer, The Mantle of Gold . . . to go and do, to shine in 





 the light of a hero's glow!



 To march forward, with clenched fists!


 To stare straight into that the darkest of all faces, that of 





 death!


 To give all until none lies left, to the future . . . our 





 most precious sons and daughters bless!



 A Maryland Man,


 Who so showed us all what a warm heart of Armer and faith so 





 can!


 But, only the very few . . . can and have so done, as Heaven 





 won . . . our fine son . . . Armer you!



 A leader of men,


 An Angel on Earth, who our Lord would so send!


 And now, as your short time is done . . . to Heaven rise my 





 son . . .as your new battle begins!



 As an Angel in the Army of our Lord,


 As on Earth you brought your light, from heaven now you 





 continue the fight . . . evermore!


 For yours, your life Burkart . . . was but our Lord's work of 





 art . . . for what you so stood for!



 Armer . . . You!


 You, so lived and died for What Is Real . . . For What Is 





 True!


 Can you but hear our tears? All for you, and your fine life . 





 . . and all of your lost years!
