# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `b2eb6dca7593bfd9905bd1f131cbf7d2`
`Mr. BECERRA — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. BECERRA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1591, the U.S. 
Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act. Today, 
Madam Speaker, we have a chance to take our country in a new direction 
to bring coherence and accountability to America's Iraq war policy.

As we enter our fifth year in the Iraq war, Americans have paid a 
high price for our involvement. Over 3,200 U.S. troops have died, 
approximately 25,000 U.S. troops have been wounded, and President Bush 
has squandered more than $350 billion of taxpayer dollars with his 
misadventure. Our troops have been fighting and dying in Iraq longer 
than American soldiers did in World War II, World War I, the Korean 
war, or the Civil War. This important legislation imposes long overdue 
accountability on the administration's war policy and will bring an end 
to President Bush's commitment to an open-ended war.

Specifically, the benchmarks and timelines contained in this 
legislation will hold both the president and the Iraqi Government 
accountable in how they conduct the war and the transition to a self-
sufficient, democratic Iraq. This bill has taken into account both the 
administration's and experts' advice on how to proceed in Iraq. Many of 
the benchmarks are similar to provisions that President Bush has 
publicly supported. The bipartisan Iraq Study Group recommended many of 
the goals and target dates in H.R. 1591.

Importantly, this bill protects our troops deployed in Iraq and 
Afghanistan and the troops and veterans returning home. H.R. 1591 
provides sufficient funding to ensure that our troops have the 
equipment to protect themselves from harm while they defend many of the 
innocent citizens of Iraq. We should all agree that never again will 
America send its troops into battle without the best equipment to 
accomplish their mission.

For our troops returning home, this legislation reverses years of 
neglect and moves us toward a comprehensive effort to address their 
needs. There is an extra $1.7 billion for military health care to be 
spent on military hospitals and a provision that prevents the closing 
of Walter Reed hospital--the first stop for so many of our wounded 
troops returning home. The bill also appropriates $1.7 billion 
additional funding for veterans' health care, $2.5 billion for 
improving the readiness of our stateside troops and $1.4 billion more 
for military housing allowances.

Mr. Speaker, when an Iraqi Shiite soldier is ready to defend an Iraqi 
Sunni civilian and an Iraqi Sunni soldier is ready to defend an Iraqi 
Shiite civilian, then perhaps we will know that the people of Iraq are 
ready to live in peace with security. But until such time, our troops 
have no business sitting in the crosshairs of a bloody civil war. By 
creating benchmarks and timelines for U.S. troop involvement in Iraq, 
this bill sends a message to Iraqis that they need to resolve their 
conflicts at the negotiation table and not through violence. We can 
help, but they must first prove that they are willing and prepared to 
help themselves.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1591 and start the process of 
bringing our troops home. Our men and women in uniform have done all we 
have asked of them. They won the war against Saddam Hussein and fought 
valiantly and timelessly to secure the peace in Iraq. Now, it is time 
for us to do our job: remove our soldiers from the insanity of the Iraq 
civil war and return them home. Only then can we rededicate ourselves 
and refocus our efforts to fight against the threat of terrorism.