# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `b301518bfdf14679c95abaccdedf7070`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader for his 
statement. Frankly, it was not great interruption. He had major 
procedural business to bring before the floor of the Senate and I very 
much understand.

The budget authority for the Air Force is equally robust, putting 
additional money behind some of our key space and missile defense 
programs. Many of our communications, intelligence, and missile 
detection satellites--a large number of which are flown by the 50th 
Space Wing out of Buckley--are reaching the end of their lifespan. 
Every day, though, they grow more and more central to troops on the 
ground.

The bill provides important investments in our space assets, 
including $126.7 million for the Space-Based Infrared Satellite System 
to replace outdated missile detection satellites, and another $300 
million to improve our space situational awareness, to help address 
concerns raised as a result of the Chinese antisatellite test earlier 
this year. Ask the space professionals, as I have at Schriever, 
Buckley, or Peterson Air Force Base, and they will tell you how much 
these investments are needed.

Beyond the funding for equipment and facilities in the bill, however, 
there are several key quality-of-life provisions in this legislation 
that the Armed Services Committee has brought before us. Supporting our 
troops, after all, means we support them in the field and we support 
them at home. We should help them be successful not just as soldiers 
but as mothers, fathers, sons, daughters, husbands, and wives. Part of 
our support includes passing the Dignified Treatment for Wounded 
Warriors Act, which we passed last week. The bill requires the 
Secretaries of Defense and Veterans Affairs to create a comprehensive 
policy for servicemembers who are transitioning from the DOD health 
system to the VA system. As evidenced by Walter Reed, the current 
system is not up to the standards that any of us would want for our men 
and women who have served our country so proudly.

I am also pleased that the underlying bill includes a 3/1/2/ percent 
pay raise for our military personnel, it rejects the administration's 
proposal to raise TRICARE fees, and requires the DOD to develop a plan 
to address the findings of an internal assessment of the well-being of 
soldiers and marines in Iraq. These steps are all important for the 
quality of life and health of the servicemembers of our Armed Forces.

Mr. President, I again thank Chairman Levin, Ranking Member
McCain, 
Senator Reid, Senator Nelson, and others who have been involved in 
taking such a large step forward for our Nation's defenses, and which 
provides so much common ground from which we can work. It is a solid 
bill. It is a solid bill which I hope will be further strengthened by 
the time it passes this Chamber.

I want to very briefly speak about four amendments that I have filed. 
First, I have filed an amendment with Senator Alexander to implement 
the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, and I look forward to the 
debate on that amendment in more detail later this week. We need to 
find common ground on how we move forward with the United States policy 
in Iraq.

Second, Senator McConnell, Senator Allard, Senator Bunning, and I 
have filed an amendment, amendment No. 2061, to set 2017 as a hard 
deadline for chemical weapons destruction and to increase funding for 
the weapons destruction programs at Pueblo, CO, and in Bluegrass, KY. 
Our amendment adds $44 million for MilCon, military construction, 
funding at these sites.

Third, amendment No. 2110; that will help the Department of Defense 
protect military installations against encroaching development. My 
amendment builds on recently released DOD and RAND Corporation reports 
and pushes the Department to allocate additional resources, provide 
additional staff, and more aggressively implement the authorities 
Congress provided to confront the encroachment challenges at many of 
our bases. Fort Carson, in my State of Colorado, is a prime example of 
how an effective DOD encroachment program can make sure the military 
training at the facility is not compromised by development. At other 
places and other bases in my State--Buckley Air Force Base, Schriever, 
and Peterson--the Air Force and we in the Congress have a lot more to 
do to make sure we don't compromise the military training mission of 
those facilities.

Finally, Senator Sessions and I have filed an amendment to provide 
better support for the Paralympic programs that serve our 
servicemembers and veterans. My amendment will allow the Office of 
Special Events at the Department of Defense to provide transportation, 
logistical support or funding for the Paralympic Military Program and 
for certain national and international Paralympic competitions. The 
Paralympic program is invaluable to wounded warriors who are recovering 
from injuries, and DOD should be allowed to assist with the program 
when it benefits our servicemembers and veterans.

Again, I thank the leadership of the Armed Services Committee and all 
its members for bringing forward a bill that is truly a very solid, 
excellent bill.

I thank my colleague, Senator Reed, for his indulgence in letting me 
precede him.

I yield the floor.