---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b301daa2d216d5f3629555c21c345fb6`
`Mr. SHAYS — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and again, Mrs. Lowey, 
thank you for a well-drafted bill, but this is an area in which I have 
some concern.

Mr. Chairman, my amendment would designate $50 million in Economic 
Support Funds for the Community Action Programs, also known as CAP in 
Iraq. The CAP program directly engages Iraqis in reconstructing their 
own communities while building a nationwide grassroots constituency for 
democracy. Typical CAP projects use both U.S. and Iraqi funds and 
resources to rebuild schools, repair water and sewage lines, build 
health clinics, as well as a host of other infrastructure and 
development projects.



The CAP agencies are Mercy Corps; IRD, International Relief and 
Development; CHF International; ACDI/VOCA Counterpart; and in the past, 
Save the Children. Since 2003, six of USAID's NGO partners have 
implemented this program in all 18 governorates of Iraq. In order to 
maintain the security of staff and win the trust of Iraqi communities, 
the implementers and USAID have largely run the program under the 
radar. As a result, not enough people are aware of the remarkable 
success story that CAP represents.

Here are just a few highlights: CAP has successfully managed more 
than 6,000 reconstruction and development projects and created more 
than 2.7 million days of employment and 34,000 long-term jobs with 43 
percent of those jobs going to women, Iraqi women.

A January 2005 audit report from the USAID regional inspector 
general, Baghdad, stated: ''Based on tests performed on 89 
statistically selected sample projects, the CAP achieved 98 percent of 
its intended outputs.''

I am going to read that again: ''Based on tests performed on 89 
statistically selected sample projects, the CAP achieved 98 percent of 
its intended outputs.''

Communities are contributing between 15 and 25 percent of the value 
of each project. That is Iraqis contributing. This contribution is 
often in the form of labor, in-kind materials, or other provisions.

In my travels to Iraq, I have seen firsthand how the CAP program 
improves the lives of Iraqis and most importantly how it helps us 
accomplish our mission of creating a secure environment for the Iraqi 
people so democracy can prosper.

It would be a terrible waste to turn our backs on such a great 
investment. In fact, this is exactly the time to nurture and build on 
the relationships CAP partners have forged with communities. 
Furthermore, CAP provides the foundation and the constituency at the 
community level that will help ensure the success of other State 
Department civil society programs.

The CAP program has enjoyed strong support from the Appropriations 
Committee, Republicans and Democrats alike, in the past. An amendment 
we offered during last year's supplemental appropriations act to 
increase CAP funding by $10 million was accepted by the committee.

The committee noted in its report last year that ''CAP provides a 
vehicle for empowering communities, building community cohesion and 
providing evidence that the U.S. is committed to improving the lives of 
Iraqis.''

We are asking for $50 million to be designated within Economic 
Support Funds to ensure the agencies can expand and improve the 
valuable projects they've been implementing for the last several years.

Mr. Chairman, I urge all my colleagues to support this amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.