# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `b3043e48a194bd636ebbae861c4a25f8`
`Mr. FLAKE â€” 30 July 2009`

---


Mr. FLAKE. Let me just state, since the gentleman wouldn't yield time 
at the end of his statement for me to ask, with the last earmark 
amendment I had, the only information we have from the committee says 
that the money is to go to Mexico for a program in Mexico, for radios 
for Mexico. Afghanistan was never mentioned. If it is covered, we don't 
know that.

But when the Appropriations Committee takes 18 minutes to mark up the 
bill and then brings it to the floor and then the chairman of the 
subcommittee won't answer a question about it, to just say, Well, it's 
for Afghanistan as well, that doesn't help with this process at all. 
And I think that will be the pattern today, whether to simply reserve 
time and then not yield any so we can have any kind of colloquy to find 
out what really is at the heart of these earmarks or what these are 
really for.

So I hope that changes. I hope we have a real discussion here because 
we didn't get it in the Appropriations Committee. Remember, 18 minutes 
to approve a bill unanimously, with more than 1,000 earmarks in it that 
nobody in the full body had seen, and we only got a copy of days before 
the bill came out. Eighteen minutes.

Anyway, this amendment would prohibit $5 million from going to fund 
Enhanced Navy Shore Readiness Integration. The earmark is going to 
Concurrent Technologies. Now, most people who have been following this 
process will know that name and know it well because Concurrent has 
drawn considerable attention due to its proclivity for earmarks. 
According to Taxpayers for Common Sense, Concurrent received more than 
$200 million in earmarks between 2001 and 2006.

Concurrent technically is a nonprofit organization, with revenues in 
the hundreds of millions of dollars. And it is receiving earmark after 
earmark after earmark after earmark, although questions are raised all 
over the place. According to the Center for Responsive Politics, 
Concurrent Technologies' employees have donated more than $113,000 to 
current members of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee since 
1998.

Let me just use a chart here. This chart kind of explains the 
phenomenon that we will see over and over and over again. And with 
every earmark amendment I am offering today, this pattern exists where 
Members of Congress will earmark dollars; the earmark spending goes to 
the earmark recipient; the earmark recipient will then turn around; and 
lobbying firms representing the earmark recipient, PACs there, 
executives from the lobbying firm, executives from the company itself, 
contribute handsomely to Members of Congress, and it recycles again and 
again and again. Circular fund-raising, that's what we're talking about 
here.

Now, I will point out that when Members of Congress request an 
earmark, they are forced to sign a certification letter saying that 
they have no financial interest. This kind of circular fund-raising is 
not illegal, and that's not what I'm alleging at all. But is it right? 
And should we, as Members of Congress, tolerate it again and again and 
again when these companies like Concurrent Technologies are in the news 
for having problems explaining what they've done with the earmark money 
that they've received again and again? And here we go saying, Now we 
have transparency and accountability, and we've changed the earmark 
process, and yet here we are again appropriating more money through an 
earmark to Concurrent Technologies.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.