---
---

# INDIA AND HONDURAS
## `b3049a58a92376660f421627346bfacb`
`Mr. CORNYN — 9 July 2009`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, today I would like to address America's 
policies toward two nations. Each of these nations has strong 
democratic institutions. Each of these nations is a key trading partner 
of the United States. And each of these nations offers even more 
potential for cooperation in the future--if the administration makes 
the right choices going forward. These two nations are India and 
Honduras.

First, I would like to discuss America's relationship with India. 
India is the world's largest democracy--and one of the world's largest 
and most dynamic economies. During this decade, India and the United 
States have cooperated more closely than ever before. America is now 
India's largest trading and investment partner. Last year Congress 
authorized a new era in civil nuclear cooperation between our two 
countries--which I was proud to support. India has joined the United 
States and many nations in supporting the people of Afghanistan. India 
has committed more than $1.2 billion to reconstruction efforts there. 
Our nations work closely together to fight terrorists--especially since 
the devastating attacks in Mumbai last year. And since 2004, India and 
the United States have built a strategic partnership--based on our 
common values--and committed to expanding opportunities in education, 
energy, and beyond.

As cochairman of the Senate's India Caucus, I strongly support closer 
ties with our strategic partner in South Asia. Yesterday, several of my 
colleagues and I had breakfast with Secretary Clinton at the State 
Department. I am pleased that she sees India as a top priority for our 
Nation's diplomatic engagement. I appreciate her determination to 
strengthen our strategic partnership with India in security, trade, and 
many other issues. I wished her well in her visit to India in the 
coming weeks.

I also took the opportunity to bend the Secretary's ear on the 
subject of Honduras. Honduras and the United States have been good 
friends and neighbors for many years. We are trade partners through the 
Central American Free Trade Agreement. Our two peoples cherish our 
independence and liberty--and have helped others claim their freedom. 
Honduras joined the United States as one of the first contributors to 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. Most of all, the people of Honduras and the 
United States respect the democratic institutions we have built--and we 
honor the rule of law.

Honoring the rule of law means that no one is above the law--
including the President. In Honduras, the President is limited to a 
single term in office. Their Constitution--like the U.S. Constitution--
places strict limits on the executive power. These limits are important 
to the Honduran people because of the history of authoritarian rule in 
their country--including periods of military dictatorship.

Unfortunately, President Zelaya was not happy with the limits to his 
power--so he tried to get the Constitution changed. First he tried to 
do so legally. Then he tried to do so illegally. Eventually he tried to 
order the military to help him get his way. In short, President Zelaya 
saw himself as the Honduran Hugo Chavez. And he has relied on Chavez's 
political and material support--including Venezuelan-owned media--in 
his quest for more power.

President Zelaya's attempts to subvert the Constitution became too 
much for the people of Honduras. It was too much for their supreme 
court, for their Congress, and for their military--all of whom agreed 
that President Zelaya had acted way beyond the powers of his office. So 
the other branches of government acted and removed Mel Zelaya from 
office on June 28.

I met with representatives of the Honduran people yesterday. They 
included two former Presidents of Honduras, several Honduran 
Congressmen, and two leaders who helped draft their Constitution in 
1982. They all agreed that the legislative and judicial branches of 
government acted properly. They acted justly. They acted 
constitutionally. I believe the United States should stand with the 
Honduran people and with the Constitution they wrote.

Unfortunately, the Obama administration has loudly taken the wrong 
view on Honduras. From day one, the White House and the State 
Department have issued strong statements in defense of Mel Zelaya and 
offered no support to all the other constitutional officers in 
Honduras.

Just this week in Moscow, President Obama again called for the return 
of Mel Zelaya to power--just as Hugo Chavez, Raul Castro, and Daniel 
Ortega are doing.

The United States should not be standing with the dictators and 
demagogues of our region--we should be standing with the people of 
Honduras and all who wish to live in freedom and under the rule of law.

So I told Secretary Clinton yesterday that she should rethink the 
administration's approach to Honduras. I said I shared her hope that 
mediation by President Arias of Costa Rica would be successful. Yet I 
also made clear that America's priority should be to nurture freedom 
and support the rule of law and not excuse or enable the ambitions of 
tyrants.
