# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b3085b03d785c95c1b62f1168725032f`
`Mr. PUTNAM — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. PUTNAM. I thank my friend from Florida for the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose this resolution because, 
unfortunately, it is anything but resolute. In one legislative breath 
it offers support for our troops, but then expresses disdain for the 
mission they have been asked to carry out. And then, I must admit I am 
surprised, after all the tough talk we heard from the other side, this 
is a rather toothless 97 words. The resolution does nothing to help win 
the war, but it doesn't do anything to help stop it either, which 
allows the majority to offer its support and withdraw it too.

Now, the majority has surely studied its constitutional law, and 
knows that the most direct way that it can affect current strategy is 
to cut off the funds necessary for winning this war. So why are we not 
having this week a real vote, a real up-or-down vote on funding our men 
and women in harm's way? Actually, the Congress has had one up-or-down 
vote, it was up only, when the Senate unanimously confirmed General 
David Petraeus as our commanding officer in Iraq. General Petraeus, who 
took over just last Saturday, literally wrote the book for the Army on 
counterinsurgency strategies. And now, after unanimous Senate approval 
and just days into his command, the House is prepared to pull the rug 
out from under him. If that is not a mixed message, then what is it, 
Mr. Speaker?

Indeed, it is a shame that the majority has brought to the floor such 
a narrow, nonbinding resolution that misses the bigger picture, because 
this is so much larger than what is going on in any given neighborhood 
in Baghdad.

It is easy enough to go back and list all the disappointments we have 
had in Iraq; it is easy enough to wring our hands about any one 
particular tactic. But it is like focusing on one jungle, on one atoll 
on the march to Tokyo over 60 years ago. The very nature of our enemy 
requires us to look at the bigger picture. The harsh reality we have 
encountered in 5/1/2/ years since militants attacked us on American 
soil is that its intricate web of terror is utterly global.

Today, al Qaeda operates in over 60 countries, with members in the 
hundreds and supporters in the hundreds of thousands and perhaps even 
millions. This is the case even after the tangible successes that we 
have had.

More than three-quarters of al Qaeda's known pre-9/11 leaders have 
been captured or killed, more than 4,000 suspected al Qaeda members 
arrested, and more than $140 million of its assets seized from over 
1,400 different bank accounts worldwide. And after having accomplished 
all that, the majority would have us consider a resolution that puts us 
one day closer to handing militant Islamists a safe haven the size of 
California. And when ideological militants achieve their objectives, 
history tells us that they don't settle, that they only attempt to 
expand their reach even further. And that means following us home.

The consequences of failure in Iraq read like a far-fetched war game, 
but I assure you they are quite real: the inevitable incursion of 
Iranian and Syrian combatants into the country, the threat to peaceful 
Arab states, and the further emboldening of Hamas and Hezbollah.

So we have arrived at one of those muddy historical crossroads. Will 
we continue to take the fight to the enemy, or will we fall back and 
hope that the enemy does not follow us home? That question is one that 
we must continue to ask ourselves, even if it is much larger than the 
narrow scope of this resolution, this resolution that was born of what 
has become an overly politicized debate.

Time was, politics stopped at the water's edge; but no longer, it 
seems. A discussion of this nature should be about more than political 
labels and single tactical issues. It should be about the consequences 
for future generations.

The history of free peoples divides itself as neatly as it can into 
generations for a reason: because it aspires to celebrate the 
contributions made by that group of people who consciously join 
together to vanquish a common enemy. If we do not join together now to 
defeat this insidious foe, then it will almost certainly fall to our 
posterity do so. And they will have a much larger concern than any one 
troop deployment in any one city. They will be tasked with rebuilding 
the lasting damage that was done to America's resolve this week. They 
will look back upon this discussion and seek to understand what we were 
thinking when, with just 97 words, we considered shrinking from this 
critical moment.

The poet Robert Frost once wrote that, ''The best way out is always


through.'' We doggedly seek the way through. Success in Iraq, security 
for our allies, and everlasting victory for freedom. This week's 
discussion should be about the way through, not the way back