# None
## `b31ea2d79e402ec0afd466e53f5407f1`
`Mr. YARMUTH â€” 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. I appreciate him mentioning the field of education 
because you can have, as I mentioned earlier, two forms of expenditure 
in government. You can have expenditures that are nonproductive, and 
one of those, I think, is the war in Iraq. Interest on the debt is 
another one, because there is no long-term payback to those 
expenditures. Education, investment in infrastructure, as Mr. Walz was 
discussing, those are the types of things that over the long run do 
produce increased revenues for society productivity, and they are the 
type of investments we need to be focusing on.

And when we look at this budget, the field of education, and I'm on 
the Education and Labor Committee and we are dealing with trying to 
decide whether to reauthorize the No Child Left Behind Act which is 
already $55 billion below its authorized levels in funding. And the 
President, once again, has no increases in funding for education in 
this budget, which means we fall further and further behind.

So while he called his act No Child Left Behind, where, in fact, we 
are leaving more and more children behind because we are not meeting 
our obligations to make the kind of investments in people and in an 
infrastructure that really will pay off over the long run.

And I know this is something that is an entire range of topics that 
Mr. Klein has dealt with and has had to set priorities in his own 
legislature in Florida, and I would like to yield to him to advance the 
discussion.