---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b31efc37d6ae63fef4a3a918e1c92e0a`
`Mr. CORNYN — 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I wish to express my gratitude to Senator


Graham for his strong leadership on this issue. I know Senator Pryor, 
on the other side of the aisle, is the principal Democratic cosponsor.

I concur with what Senator Graham said. The necessity for this 
particular amendment is occasioned by the neglect of the Federal 
Government over the last 20 years at meeting its commitment to do 
whatever is necessary to keep the American people safe.

This has become, of course, a national focus in a post-9/11 world, 
when we have to know who is coming across our borders and what their 
intentions are. We cannot any longer assume people are coming across 
for benign reasons or are simply economic migrants because we know the 
same broken borders that allow a person to come across who wants to 
work in the United States can be exploited by human smugglers or drug 
traffickers and potentially even those who want to come here and commit 
acts of terrorism in the United States.

Yesterday, I made a part of the Congressional Record, by unanimous 
consent, the first of a four-part article written in the San Antonio 
Express News, documenting the movement of what are called special 
interest aliens; that is, individuals who are coming to America, from 
countries where terrorism is flourishing, through our broken southern 
border.

The particular story that is documented talks about a young Iraqi who 
traveled from Damascus, Syria, to Moscow, to Havana and then to 
Guatemala and then up through the southern border, our southern border 
with Mexico, into the United States. Thank goodness this individual did 
not appear to be committed to a life of terrorism, but it demonstrates 
the kind of vulnerability we have in this country, and it is important 
we do everything possible to protect it.

I am pleased with the majority leader's agreement to now allow us to 
include the use of these funds for interior enforcement because we know 
45 percent of the illegal immigration in this country occurs not from 
people who violate the border but people who enter legally, then 
overstay and then go underground. So I am grateful to the majority 
leader and am pleased to support this amendment.

I yield the floor.