# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b32bf18ce14e190c3d9469dbb841aa61`
`Mr. VISCLOSKY — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this 
resolution and express my profound disapproval of President Bush's 
decision to increase our troop levels in Iraq.

Late last year the President had an opportunity to create a new 
strategy. The voice of the American people was heard at this past 
election. The voice of the Iraq Study Group gave the President a 
bipartisan plan to draw down our troops. New leadership at the Pentagon 
also could have been a voice of change of strategy. But President Bush 
did not listen to any of these voices. He decided to escalate our troop 
levels in Iraq. No time frame, no measurable benchmarks, no end.

Mr. Speaker, if President Bush chooses an erroneous path, then it is 
our constitutional responsibility to show the way.

I have the deepest respect and gratitude for our women and men in 
uniform. I honor their commitment, their courage and their sacrifice.



Our troops have done everything we have asked them to do. They 
overwhelmed the old Iraqi Government and captured Saddam Hussein. They 
provided security while Iraq formed its provisional government, 
approved a constitution, and elected a permanent government.

Nine individuals from the First Congressional District of Indiana 
have already given their lives and made the supreme sacrifice for our 
Nation. These brave men and women will always be remembered: Sergeant 
Jeanette Winters; Specialist Gregory Sanders; Sergeant Duane Rios; 
Specialist Roy Buckley; Private First Class John Amos, II; Private Luis 
Perez; Private First Class Nathan Stahl; Corporal Bryan Wilson; Private 
First Class Steven Sirko; Specialist Nicholas Idalski; Specialist Adam 
Harting; and Staff Sergeant Jonathan Rojas.

I am so proud of the dedication and service of the people of my State 
in the United States military. We owe them a commitment equal to their 
courage. We owe them the courage to act on our conviction.

With the passage of 4 years and the loss of over 3,000 brave 
Americans and countless others who have been permanently injured, I 
regret to recall that we were told we needed to invade Iraq because 
Saddam Hussein possessed materials for weapons of mass destruction. 
None could be found. I regret that


the President felt compelled to justify the invasion by claiming a 
connection between al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein when the 9/11 Commission 
found this was simply not true.

Our situation in Iraq has redirected our Nation from its true 
mission. The war in Iraq has diverted our attention from the global war 
on terror. We need to reconstitute our Armed Forces. We also need a 
strategic redeployment of our forces that will give us the ability to 
focus our efforts directly on the global terror networks that target 
innocent people around the world.

I voted against the authorization of the Iraq invasion in 2003. There 
was no plan or exit strategy then, and there are clearly no good 
options now. Yet the Iraq Study Group provided a bipartisan perspective 
on some changes in strategy. They called for a drawdown of troops and 
for intensive diplomatic efforts to resolve the sectarian violence 
there. We need to listen to their recommendations.

Mr. Speaker, it is not too late to change our strategy, and the first 
step along the new way is to prevent the President's escalation of this 
war. It is time to obligate the Iraqi Government to assume the full 
burden and consequences of governing their country. We need to listen 
to the majority of the American people. We need to listen to reasoned 
voices such as the Iraq Study Group. The time to pursue a new course is 
now. I support our troops, and that is why I support this resolution.