# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `b33184c9e61ed30e3de93eb2bb3e69a3`
`Mr. REID — 3 June 2009`

---


Mr. REID. Mr President, I rise today to introduce legislation to help 
reduce the financial burden placed on our Reserve and National Guard 
troops and their families. More than a quarter of a million have 
deployed in support of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we must 
make it a priority to honor their service at home.

Nevada alone has more than three thousand Guards men and women, and a 
thousand Reservists--many of whom work full-time jobs when they are not 
on active duty. Since September 11th, our National Guard and Reserve 
Troops have significantly increased their deployments beyond what had 
been forecasted, advertised or expected. They have continued their 
engagements around the globe while still responding to historic 
callouts in support of disaster relief.

In our Democracy, we enjoy the luxury of an all-volunteer military 
force. Yet in volunteering, many of our Citizen-Soldiers are 
financially penalized for their service. Far too frequently, when a 
Service Member is mobilized in service to their state or our nation, 
they suffer a financial burden in the reduced pay received while 
mobilized. A National Guard medic might earn much less while he or she 
is deployed in Afghanistan than they did working a full-time job in a 
Nevada hospital. This legislation gives American taxpayers the option 
of contributing money to help our military families to make up for 
wages lost during a deployment.

The bill I am introducing today allows Americans to designate all or 
a portion of their income tax refunds to the Reserve Income Replacement 
Program. The Program is a compensation that must be paid to all 
eligible Service Members when they incur a loss in monthly income as a 
result of a mobilization. The funds that volunteers donate will be 
transferred from the Treasury Department to this program, which was 
developed specifically to provide payments to eligible members of the 
National Guard and Reserve who are involuntary serving on active-duty 
and who are experiencing a monthly active-duty income differential of 
more than $50. In 2007, the IRS issued 106 million refunds that totaled 
$246 billion with the average refund coming in at $2,342. Even a small 
percentage of this amount could make a significant difference in the 
lives of these reservist and National Guard families.

The financial stress of deployments during a recession has placed 
enormous pressures on our National Guard and Reserve Service Members 
and their families. Many of these members are returning from war only 
to find their businesses facing extreme difficulty. This bill would not 
only assist the Guard with monetary resources, but it would also 
rightfully focus more attention on the financial struggles that our 
brave and dedicated citizen Soldiers and Airmen undertake in defense of 
our country. With this legislation, we can show them that their service 
is not taken for granted.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.