---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b3369208d8d1788f559fea8bdf21b2f1`
`Mr. OBEY — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, we've heard a lot of comments tonight about what there 
should or should not be in this legislation, and I agree with many of 
those comments. And honestly, just once, acting as chairman of a 
committee, I would like to put together a bill which reflects my 
priorities. But that is not usually what chairmen have to do in this 
place.

What we have to do is try to find a consensus that will gather 218 
votes and be sustained over time. And on this bill, there are some 
peculiar problems because, very frankly, we have a very different 
constituency in this House for continuing the war in Iraq than we have 
for most of the other items in the bill and, therefore, we had to find 
a way to allow each and every Member of the House to express his or her 
opinion. We had to try to find a way to allow each and every Member to 
vote their convictions in a way which would not keep the House tied up 
in knots for another 6 months.

Now, the way we did that was to adopt a procedure under which we took 
a conference report pending between the Senate and the House, and used 
that as the device by which each House would express their preferences, 
and we would work our way to a solution.

Our committee is often criticized because we wind up producing 
omnibus appropriations in which everything is thrown into one package, 
and people are forced to vote up or down on the entire package. What we 
tried to do this time was to do just the opposite, to disaggregate 
these issues so that people would have a chance to vote separately on 
the major propositions in the legislation.

And that is why the House sent to the Senate originally three 
amendments. We sent one amendment that would fund the operations for 
Iraq and Afghanistan. We sent a second amendment which stipulated the 
conditions under which the first amendment money could be expended. And 
then we had a third amendment which laid out, basically, other domestic 
priorities or associated military priorities that we thought were 
important. And we sent it to the Senate, and it included a number of 
items about which questions have been raised tonight.

In addition to the expanded GI benefits for veterans and unemployment 
compensation, we tried to protect the Medicaid safety net by having a 
moratorium on seven Medicaid regulations.



We also had a number of restrictions on Iraq policy, one requiring 
that any money that is expended for reconstruction by the State 
Department or USAID be matched dollar for dollar by the Iraqi 
Government so that they


would begin to pick up a fair share of the cost of redeveloping their 
own country.

We also had language with respect to trying to assure that there 
would be no permanent bases in Iraq. We had funding $2.2 billion above 
the President's level for military construction and veterans' 
hospitals, and we fully funded BRAC.

Someone asked earlier on the floor today why did we have $178 million 
in this war supplemental for the Bureau of Prisons. Very simple. 
Because the executive agency asked for the money because if we don't, 
there are going to be prison guards laid off because there has been a 
heavier than expected Federal prison population. And that may not be an 
emergency to Members of Congress, but if you're one of those prison 
guards who's working shorthanded under dangerous situations, you don't 
want to have people laid off in those Federal prisons.

And so we sent that package over to the Senate, and the Senate added 
roughly 37 additional items which cost $10 billion and which the House 
felt, in many instances, did not accurately reflect emergency 
expenditure funds.

So the Senate sent those amendments back to us, and among other 
things, they stripped out totally the conditions on the war. That is 
why I will personally vote against amendment No. 1 because I would vote 
for that amendment provided that we had a set of reasonable conditions 
in defining what our national policy is in Iraq. Absent those 
conditions, I don't intend to vote for that amendment.

But I do intend to vote for the second amendment, and I want to take 
just a moment to explain what was in it. Primarily, we do three 
important things: We, first of all, create a new program to provide 
greatly expanded education benefits for American veterans under the GI 
Bill. We have some Members of this House who are unhappy about the fact 
that that is not paid for. I am among them. But I would point out that 
the entire war is not being paid for. Mr. Murtha and I and Mr. McGovern 
tried to offer the House an opportunity to vote to pay for the entire 
war. We did not, frankly, find much enthusiasm for that on either side 
of the political aisle.

But we stipulated that we felt that if that war was going to be 
fought, even though I personally think it's the most misguided war 
since the War of 1812, nonetheless, we felt if the war was going to be 
fought, at least we ought to pay for it so we didn't pass the cost down 
to our grandkids.

That has not happened.

My point is simply that if we aren't going to pay for the war, then I 
feel no particular guilt about saying to the GIs who have fought the 
war that we aren't going to provide you with the equivalent of a 4-year 
college education because we have had no sense of self-sacrifice in 
this country except on the part of military families. They've been 
asked to sacrifice again and again and again while the rest of us have 
been asked to go shopping or swallow a tax cut. And I think that's 
illegitimate.

We lost the argument on funding the war, and it just seems to me that 
it is a peculiar view of proportion if people get exercised about not 
paying for the GI Bill expansion but don't get exercised about not 
paying for the war. It would take over 50 years of paying benefits 
under this new expanded GI Bill. It would take more than 50 years to 
spend as much money on veterans as will be spent in a 2-year period in 
Iraq.

And so I make no apology. While I would prefer that it be paid for, I 
make no apology for the fact that, in the end, it wasn't. This is the 
only way that we could get the United States Senate and the 
administration to accept the expanded GI Bill. And I think we owe it to 
those veterans to provide it no matter what the budgetary niceties are.

Secondly, with respect to unemployment compensation. We wound up 
essentially--and I want to thank Mr. Rangel especially for the work he 
did in conference yesterday. The House initially sent over a package 
which provided 13 weeks of expanded unemployment benefits for every 
State in the country and then provided an additional 13 weeks on top of 
that for States with high unemployment rates.

The administration, as you know, Mr. Speaker, did not want that. They 
objected to it. So we looked for various ways to try to salvage as much 
of that as we could.

In the end, we adopted changes which bring the cost of that down from 
about $10 billion to $8 billion. So we have retained 80 percent of the 
original unemployment compensation provision.

We've made two changes. We have agreed with the administration's 
request to require 20 weeks of work history if a person is going to be 
eligible for that, and we also dropped the second step, the targeting 
of those benefits. We will have to deal with that issue on another bill 
in another venue.

The third issue that was causing great controversy was the fact that 
we were trying to place a moratorium on seven Medicaid regulations that 
the administration was trying to impose that would cut services to 
seniors, families, and those with disabilities. In the end, we got six 
of those seven in the package. I think that's doing pretty well.

Because of the new disasters that we have had around the country, 
certainly most visible in Iowa recently, the administration agreed to 
$1.8 billion in disaster funding. This bill comes in considerably 
higher than that at $2.65 billion.

That's basically the outline of what we have done. And there are 
several other items in the bill. One that Members should be aware of, 
if we do not get our appropriation bills done by the end of the fiscal 
year--that has been known to happen from time to time around here--if 
that doesn't happen, then if we were to proceed for a short time on a 
continuing resolution, Israel would wind up receiving $170 million less 
than the President's budget. We did not want that to happen. And so we 
are including in this bill a provision which guarantees that as of 
October 1, that even if we were to pass a continuing resolution at last 
year's level, Israel would not be accidentally shortchanged by that 
action and they would get that additional $170 million.

There are a number of other provisions in the bill, but I think most 
Members are familiar with them. Most of these items have been around 
for quite a while.

And so with that, Mr. Speaker, I would like to reserve the balance of 
my time.