# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY
## `b33b0651d5b33f4150768433bff7e301`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Ms. Moore. And I can 
tell you anytime we get a chance to come to the floor and honor our 
patriots is always a day that the Congress should yield and pay respect 
to not only that individual but also the family.

Madam Speaker, I think it's important we start to look at what the 
Congress is facing right now and the American people are facing right 
now as it relates to the economy. The news has been for the last 5 to 
10 days the economy, stimulating the economy, and it is very important 
that we do so. And as you know, many news accounts have shown the 
President, also the Speaker of the House, and the Democratic leader in 
the Senate meeting. You have also seen meetings with the Republican 
leadership and Democratic leadership here in the Congress. The American 
people are counting on us working in a bipartisan way, and I just want 
to make sure that all Members know that this is nothing new for the 
Democratic House of Representatives, especially the majority of 
Democrats that are here, because we came in saying we wanted to work in 
a bipartisan way. As a matter of fact, Madam Speaker, I went back and 
pulled out a chart because so many times here in the 30-something 
Working Group it's important that we share with the Members what we 
have already done and what we can do. And I will use this chart all the 
way up to today.

Many of these acts took place in the first session of the 110th 
Congress, and it was the first time, with your help,


Madam Speaker, we were able to take the majority of the House:

Implementation of the 9/11 Commission recommendations, H.R. 1, passed 
with 299 Democratic votes with 68 Republican votes. Raising the minimum 
wage, H.R. 2, passed 315 with 82 Republican votes. The funding for 
enhanced stem cell research passed 253 with 37 Republican votes. Making 
prescription drugs more affordable, H.R. 4, passed 255 with 24 
Republican votes. And cutting student loan interest rates in half, H.R. 
5, passed this House of course with Democratic votes, all the 
Democratic votes, 356 with 124 Republicans voting with Democrats on 
that bill in a bipartisan way. And also creating long-term energy 
initiatives, H.R. 6, which passed 264 votes with 36 of those votes 
being Republican votes.

That's bipartisanship. Those are major pieces of legislation, Madam 
Speaker. This is nothing new to the Democratic majority.

I think it's also important to point to just today here on this floor 
maybe about 2 hours ago, Democrats and Republicans voted to override 
the President's veto, and that vote was a bipartisan vote, not enough 
to stop the President from stopping us from doing what the American 
people wanted us to do. A bipartisan vote, 265, and that vote was a 
very important vote. We had 43 Republicans voting with us on that.

I think it's important, Madam Speaker, as we start to move forth on 
this whole economic stimulus discussion that we continue to work in a 
bipartisan way, but we're going to need more bipartisanship. Democrats 
are there at the line ready to do it. And I have a document here that's 
very easy for any Member to get a copy of that was prepared by the 
office of the majority leader on June 5 of 2007: ''House Democrats' 
bipartisanship leads to progress.'' And I also would ask all of my 
Republican colleagues to grab a copy of it. But I think that it's 
important that we reflect back on this document to really pay attention 
to what we have already done and what we can do. But we don't want to 
end up getting ourselves in a situation where we start deal breaking. 
When I say ''deal breaking,'' we know that the President and we know 
that the majority leader has met and we know that the Speaker has met 
at the White House just recently, just yesterday, and they have been 
meeting and talking on the telephone. As you know, we try to break this 
down as much as we can. We also know that in the House, we have had a 
Democratic economic forum, which was December 7, closing out last year. 
This whole economic stimulus discussion and effort did not start when 
it started hitting headlines. We were already out there on these 
issues. Ongoing discussion between House leaders and Secretary Paulson, 
who is the Secretary of the Department of Treasury, that has been going 
on. So many dates, too many to note here on this chart. A Democratic 
leadership letter to the President dated the 11th of this month. Also 
the Speaker has met with the Federal Reserve Chairman on January 14 and 
also the Democratic leadership meeting with Republican leaders on 
January 16. And those discussions continue to go on, some that are 
documented, some that are undocumented. A Democratic leadership meeting 
with Republican leaders again the following day. We also had a 
Democratic and Republican leadership meeting with the Treasury 
Secretary that took place on January 22, just a day ago. Also a 
Democratic and Republican leadership meeting with the President that I 
mentioned a little earlier.

We're going to continue to pay attention to this bipartisanship, and 
when I say ''we,'' I mean those of us in the 30-something Working 
Group, because I think it should be encouraged. We have always talk 
about it. I, being a creature of two previous Congresses, always said 
that bipartisanship can only be achieved when the majority allows it to 
happen. We have a Democratic majority now that is allowing it to 
happen. If we start talking and going back and forth on retail 
politics, the only people that are going to lose are the American 
people, and I'm not in the business of seeing that happen.

I think it's important also to know that there will be statements 
made and we have to make sure that we clear those statements up so that 
we don't have misunderstandings and we start going off into another 
direction on this whole effort of bipartisanship. I'm saying that and I 
came to the floor with that theme here today because it's important. If 
folks want to prove the differences between the two parties, find 
another way to do it, not necessarily on this economic stimulus package 
because so many Americans, Democrat, Republican, independent, those 
that can't even vote yet, those individuals that are dealing with the 
muddiness of life, that don't have what they need to make ends meet, 
and our economy is not in the posture for us to play games for several 
months to come going back and forth. So as much as we can as Members of 
the House, we need to meet. We need to understand one another. When we 
misunderstand one another, we need to meet again to make sure that we 
can work together, something that everyone talks about during the 
election season that they want to go to Washington, D.C. and work in a 
bipartisan way. I don't care where you are, if your district is 89 
percent Republican or 89 percent Democrat or what have you, 
independent, Green Party, you name it. You don't want to run on the 
platform that I'm going to Washington, D.C. to be a partisan. You don't 
run on that platform. You run on the platform that you're going to 
bring people together, that you're going to work across the aisle to 
get the job done for your constituents.



So I think it is very, very important, Madam Speaker, to put those 
words into action.

And what I am seeing here and what I have seen, Madam Speaker, of the 
last 4 to 5 days have been what one may see in a piece of campaign 
literature or what one may see when someone speaks on television about 
how they are going to do things better if they get an opportunity to do 
it. You have that opportunity. Don't let that opportunity slip through 
your fingers when others try to derail the process.

Today, I can say that what took place was an effort, and we tried to 
override the President on the children's health insurance bill, we may 
say the State Children's Health Insurance program. I think it is 
important with the 42 Republicans that voted along with Democrats, 218 
Democrats voted in affirmative, it wasn't enough to override the 
President, but it was a part of trying to take some of the burden off 
American families, because those families that are hurting right now, 
we know that health care cost is a huge issue when you start looking at 
how we are going to move this ball forward and how we are going to help 
American families.

There are a number of organizations that are in support of the State 
insurance plan, what we call SCHIP, that are in support of this great 
piece of legislation. You have the AARP. You have the American Medical 
Association. You have Catholic Health Association, and Families U.S.A., 
along with a host of other organizations that I could spend 30 minutes 
on the floor reading every last one of them off. But that is not going 
to make a difference right now for this debate or the action that we 
were going to take, that hopefully we wanted to take place a couple of 
hours ago, to be able to allow children that are in need of health care 
insurance. We were denied that opportunity, and I can't say that the 
Republicans stopped us. I can say that 42 Republicans did what they had 
to do to be able to stimulate this, not only this economy, putting more 
dollars into the pockets, very few dollars into the pockets of 
Americans so that they don't have to spend those dollars in providing 
health care to kids that happen to be born into financially challenged 
families, and that would have been a way to assist them. But there were 
a number of Republicans that voted against the legislation that denied 
us from having that opportunity.

But I have hope, Madam Speaker, that before this 110th Congress is 
out we will be able to provide that level of health care. We talked 
about universal health care. Starting with our children first is very, 
very imperative for us to be able to head in that direction.

As we start dealing with the issues, when we move to the Senate, we 
have rule 22, that you have to have 60 Senators to be able to bring 
anything to the floor in an appropriate way or to be


able to procedurally get it there. I think it is important because I am 
trying to look down the road because I have been down this road before. 
We get that warm and fuzzy feeling in our heart and start believing 
what we are reading and start saying, Wow, this is unbelievable. People 
are working together and we are actually going to move something 
through the process. Republicans are happy. Democrats are happy. And 
then we run into a handful of Senators, and the Senate may very well 
say, Well, we are not happy. And the reason why we are not happy is 
that I want to make sure that I can make some of the tax cuts that have 
been put out there now that are not right put into the moment, because 
that is what this is about.

This stimulus package is not about stimulating the economy 8 months 
from now. It is about stimulating the economy right now. And it's 
important that we get it to the target audience that is going to help 
us do that. And so I think that any other great ideas that may come out 
of, independently of the bipartisan discussion that has been going on 
for almost double-digit days now will be counterproductive to us moving 
this piece of legislation forward. We know that when we come to final 
rest on this legislation, we know a lot of things are on the table that 
are going to create right-now jobs, that are going to create right-now 
investment, and it is going to be able to get into the hands of 
Americans that are going to spend those dollars to be able to jump-
start our economy, to be able to bring it out of the, quote, unquote, I 
don't want to use the ''R'' word, but the recession that folks are 
talking about and that economic indicators some feel we are in, some 
feel we are not. We have some individuals saying technically we may be 
in one.


The bottom line is the economy is not what it needs to be to be able 
to continue the United States of being in the position that we are in 
right now, well, in a better position, a position we have been in the 
past, of being not only the largest economy in the world as it relates 
to a nation but also being very strong and very vibrant.

We know that we can get in these very high altitude conversations of 
saying that it is important for us to be able to have trade, it is 
important for us to see small business start-ups, it is important for 
American people to be able to buy things at an affordable cost. But it 
is also important for us to pass this economic stimulus package within 
days, not weeks, not months. So I want to make sure, speaking to all of 
my colleagues here in the House, that we move with the spirit of saying 
that we are going to deal with the target audience that we are trying 
to reach right now, and that we are going to do it in a way that is 
bipartisan and that we won't have any last-minute legislative Hail 
Marys or amendments or procedural maneuvers that will stop us from 
achieving the goal of carrying out at least one major act at a time of 
urgency on behalf of the American people. We have done it before with 
other major pieces of legislation, but this economic stimulus 
legislation is very, very, very important.

Now, Madam Speaker, I think that as we start to look at this, because 
I want to make sure the Members are able to communicate not only with 
the 30-Something Working Group but also with me independently, or any 
staff or what have you that wish to do so, can be reached at 
30somethingdems@mail.house.gov. The reason why I give that Web site 
out, Madam Speaker, we have to call it out when we see it. It is almost 
like we are in the football season right now, and there is a lot of 
replays, and some of the replays are called within the last 2 minutes 
from the officials' box in what you may call the sweet area in a 
football stadium. And I think it is important that if you see this kind 
of activity that will derail this bipartisan spirit that we have right 
now, we need to call it out. We need to be able to say that that is 
going to be counterproductive. We already know that the agenda in 
trying to continue the tax cuts that were brought about under President 
Bush, and I believe the President is in the position of saying we don't 
need that part of tax legislation to be a part of this stimulus 
package, that is for another date, that is for us to deal with, that is 
for us to hash through in the Ways and Means Committee, which I am 
proud to be a member of, that is another day's debate. It is not a 
debate on this economic stimulus package that we are going to hopefully 
bring to the floor within days. I want to be able to head that off so 
that we don't have to waste the American people's time to really get 
into this issue of another debate as it relates to the tax issue. So I 
think it is important as we continue to move through this process that 
Members communicate with Members because a lot of folks say, well, it 
is just a lack of communication of the reason why we are not able to be 
successful in pushing some of these issues forward.

I can also shed light on another issue, Madam Speaker, and that issue 
is the fact that we have a number of different tracks that are taking 
place here in the House and also in this Congress. The campaign spirit 
that is out there right now amongst the Presidential candidates, 
Democrat and Republican, and what we do here, that spirit, the spirit 
that we have here in the House may very well be broken based on what 
someone may say, and many of those individuals are Members of Congress, 
may say as it relates to their plans. Making those political statements 
here on the floor through legislation or trying to push into an 
economic stimulus package because someone said it on the campaign trail 
and for them to be able to say, well, that was just introduced, you 
know, in the, in this discussion, may be counterproductive if it is not 
within the spirit of what we are trying to do here.

I also would like to share a statement that was made a little earlier 
today as we start talking about that spirit, and the Republican leader 
said, I hope that Democrats are not looking to give nontaxpayers 
rebates or what have you or incentives. I want to just clear it up. I 
am assuming that he is not speaking of those individuals that are 
paying payroll taxes, because they are. So many individuals, they don't 
have to pay because they pay so much in payroll tax, and we do have 
that. And also when we talk about a targeted audience, that targeted 
audience is the audience that will put the money into the economy 
versus saying, Well, I have received this rebate check, or, I have 
received some sort of incentive that will change my economic attitude 
towards spending, so I am going to go put it over here and invest it to 
deal with it at another time and another day. That won't be the kind of 
investment that will help us move this economy forward. I think it is 
important for us to pay attention to that, and just because someone is 
what I define as financially challenged, means that they cannot 
participate in what we are trying to do in stimulating this economy 
because we need them and we need them to keep this economy moving.


I am glad to see that the spirit of the majority, of Chairman Rangel, 
who put out a statement today, the economic stimulus package, must help 
lower and middle-income families, I don't think there is anything wrong 
with that statement, and I think that it is within the spirit of what 
we are talking about here. Mr. Rangel goes on to say that the intent of 
the economic stimulus package has not yet been written, but everything 
remains on the table; however, I would like to respond to suggestions 
that various Republican leaders have made to prevent the stimulus 
package from reaching hardworking families. I think that it is also 
important that as we look at that, as we look at that statement there, 
again, we are looking at responding, and we are looking at working 
within the spirit of this legislation that we are communicating.

Many times things are said, like I mentioned here earlier, like the 
Republican leader mentioned that he was concerned about that it is 
important to put it in black and white so that everyone can understand. 
I know, I know my Republican colleagues want to make sure these tax 
cuts meet lower and middle-class families. I hope that I am not proven 
wrong as it relates to any vote that may happen in committee or any 
vote that may happen here on this floor. But it is important that we 
put these statements out there and for it to be able to reach these 
hardworking families who work from paycheck to paycheck and make 
contributions to Social Security and Medicare, as Mr. Rangel goes on to 
say, or who may have recently lost their jobs, any argument on this 
issue that will be equally


met with vigorous discussion as it relates to tax incentives to 
businesses.

Now, here is another piece as we start to look at this very issue, 
dealing with businesses and dealing with individuals. The backbone of 
our economy are small businesses, and I guarantee you that small 
businesses will be a part of this economic stimulus package. But at the 
same time, let's not leave back in the dust those Americans that we 
know that will pump dollars into the economy and we know that have been 
paying payroll taxes and we know that have been paying into Social 
Security. So when we look at that, let's make sure that we work in a 
bipartisan way and that we understand each other.

Madam Speaker, I encourage rapid response. I encourage Members to 
say, Well, if this is the way I feel, I am going to say the way I feel, 
but at the same time, be able to receive that answer or, at the same 
time, continue to meet.

This chart I pulled out earlier, Madam Speaker, twice on this chart, 
and we will have it every time we come to the floor in the 30-Something 
Working Group, Democratic leadership meeting with Republican leaders, 
1/16 of this month, Democratic leaders meeting with Republican leaders, 
1/17. If they met in the a.m. and p.m., I would like to even put that 
down because I think it is important that we have that. Goodness 
gracious, if we were able to pull together this package in a way that 
American people will see that folks are actually talking daily in a 
meaningful talk, not just shooting shots over the bow of the ship, 
meaningful talk, hopefully we will be able to resolve issues like the 
impasse that we have had on the issue of health care, the impasse that 
we have had on the issue of Iraq and other various important issues 
that have come before this Congress.



This should be encouraged. I'm a Democrat. I enjoy being in the 
majority. And I hope that we are in the majority for as long as the sun 
rises in the East and sets in the West. I hope that happens.

But as long as we are in the majority, it doesn't mean that we can't 
also have that same spirit towards bipartisanship, and that's 
important. Because I have been in the minority before, and I know how 
it feels. I know how it feels when you can't get a bill agendaed in a 
certainty; you can't get a bill agendaed in the committee or you can't 
get your amendment heard on the floor. I know how that feels.

But I think it's very, very important that as we look at these very 
important issues that are facing our Nation, that we use that 
bipartisanship in a way that we haven't used it in the past. And we 
have passed bills in a bipartisan way, as I said a little earlier in 
the hour, but do it in a way that it will be a jaw drop for the 
American people. They'll say, wow, this is interesting how they came 
together and made this happen without trying to make a political stand.

I think that from what I'm reading and what I'm seeing, it seems like 
the President is on board. It seems like the Speaker is on board, seems 
like the majority leader is on board. It even seems like the minority 
leaders in both chambers are on board.

So as we look at rule XXII over in the Senate and we look at the 60 
vote, the procedural piece that has to happen before you get to bring 
in any bill before the Senate, that that spirit lives within those 
Republican Members that will help us get to that 60.

When I say ''us,'' it's only 51 Democrats in the Senate, but let's 
continue to pay very close attention to it.

Mr. Ryan, I'm so glad to see you all the way from Niles, Ohio. We 
know the Republicans will be going to a retreat this week. So we have 
an opportunity to work off line and do some work and get back to the 
district and do some great things. But this whole issue about economic 
stimulus, I tell my friends, when I come to the floor, even when you're 
not here, I make reference to what I have seen in your district, what 
is happening in your district and how important this bill is for Ohio 
just as important as it is for Florida.

I yield.