---
---

# FISA MODERNIZATION
## `b33f5801f23014a41c13822817f374bd`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, 3 weeks ago, I began a series of 
speeches on the price America is paying for the failed war in Iraq, and 
I wish to continue today. The number of American service men and women 
killed in action has risen to 3,855, and with every death of a husband 
or wife, a son or daughter, a mom or dad, the suffering of a family 
soars to that place where numbers do not matter, to that place where 
pain is beyond infinite.

I have spoken about what the war has cost us financially. Since the 
war began more than 4 long years ago, we have spent over $455 billion. 
Over the long run, it will cost almost $2 trillion. Again, those are 
not just numbers, those were cargo scanners that could have been 
installed at our ports, safer bridges that could have been built, 
lifesaving cancer research that could have been done, children who 
could have been educated, lives that could have been saved--a world of 
possibilities that passed by us all. I have tried to help us all 
imagine what we are giving up by failing to awaken ourselves from the 
living nightmare that is the war in Iraq.

Today, I wish to talk about the people who have given so much, people 
who will be paying for this war for the rest of their lives--our 
veterans and their families.

On Sunday, we celebrated Veterans Day. I wish to talk about how much 
we could do for those who have served with the amount of money we have 
used to send them into harm's way.

Mr. President, 28,451 troops have come back from Iraq with horrible 
wounds. Some wounds are physical. Some have had their legs or arms 
blown off by bombs. Some are blind from shrapnel in their eyes.

And some wounds are mental. Denying that war can wound a brain along 
with the rest of the body is denying so many veterans' nightmares, 
flashbacks, shocks or changes in personality so radical--so radical--
that loved ones can no longer recognize the person they once knew.

Today, Army researchers are releasing a study showing that the full 
psychological impact of the war tends to hit soldiers even harder 6 
months after they have returned from the war. So the ranks of those 
suffering are about to grow by many thousands.

Beyond the human cost of these injuries, the financial costs to our 
society are tremendous. A report released by Physicians for Social 
Responsibility puts the cost of medical care and disability benefits 
for veterans returning from Iraq at over $660 billion. So in a very 
direct sense, the war has been more than twice as financially expensive 
as we might think just looking at the combat costs.

The human and financial costs don't end with just health care. Here 
is a shocking statistic, Mr. President: Veterans make up one in four 
homeless people in this country. That means almost 200,000 veterans 
don't have a home to go back to tonight. Experts say the rates of 
homelessness are spiraling up faster than they did after the war in 
Vietnam.

Mr. President, that is a moral outrage. These people put their lives 
on the line for our country, no questions asked. It is a shame our men 
and women in uniform would be sent to patrol the streets of Baghdad 
only to have to come back and sleep on the streets of their own 
hometowns.

That is why Democrats in Congress are working to give veterans the 
support they deserve. The Senate recently passed a bill that contains 
the largest increase in funding for our veterans in history. We are 
reinvigorating our Veterans Affairs Department with a record $87 
billion, which is several billion dollars more than President Bush said 
he was willing to spend on our veterans, with $37 billion for veterans 
health care. Billions of dollars are headed to expand medical services 
and beef up the administrative side so vets spend less time waiting to 
get their benefits.

Now, compare this to the costs of combat. Let's compare the 
investment in the men and women who serve in the uniform of the United 
States to the costs of combat. We could pay for the entire Veterans 
Health Administration budget--the entire Veterans Health Administration 
budget, all $37 billion--with what we spend in less than 4 months of 
combat in Iraq. Take care of every veteran, in terms of the veterans 
health care system. We could pay for that entire budget, $37 billion, 
with what we spend in less than 4 months of combat in Iraq. And some 
say it is too much? Where are their priorities?

Just as important as making sure vets have excellent health care is 
making sure they have an opportunity to get an excellent education. I 
am proud to be a cosponsor of a bill offered by Senator Webb that would 
be the biggest boost to veterans education since World War II. 
Preparing thousands of veterans to enter the civilian workforce with a 
first-rate education would cost about $5.4 billion next year--$5.4 
billion--for, in essence, a new GI education bill. In other words, it 
would cost what it takes to fund combat in Iraq for roughly 2 weeks to 
make sure thousands of veterans can enter the civilian workforce when 
they come back.

Here is one of our challenges. Many of our vets come back and find 
the jobs they once had are no longer there. They find themselves, after 
serving their Nation, unemployed. The type of first-rate education we 
could give them would clearly create an opportunity to ensure they 
would have greater skills, greater employability, and that would take 
roughly 2 weeks of funding for the war in Iraq.

Democrats in Congress are also working to end the pandemic of 
homelessness. I joined with Senator Obama to support a bill called 
Homes for Heroes. The bill would establish permanent housing and 
services for low-income veterans and their families. It would make more 
rental assistance available to help providers of veteran housing and 
services, and focus more attention on vets who are homeless. Of course, 
the more soldiers who go off to war, the more necessary this bill 
becomes.

The portion of the bill that helps community and nonprofit 
organizations offer housing to low-income veterans would require about 
$225 million to fund. We grind up enough money to house thousands of 
veterans in 16 hours in Iraq--not even a day. The costs of combat 
compared to the opportunity to providing a year of expanded housing for 
homeless veterans would cost the same as 16 hours of the amount we 
spend in Iraq. Some say too much. Where are your values? What are your 
priorities? How is it that you choose?

Of course, the price we pay in dollars can never compare to the price 
our wounded warriors and their families pay in lost limbs, in haunted 
dreams, and in lives changed forever. That is a price not one more 
soldier should be asked to pay for a pointless war. In the meantime, we 
need to act fast to get returning vets the help they need. Veterans got 
their wounds following their


Government's orders. Those wounds can only heal if the Government 
reorders its priorities.

Democrats wanted to send the bill increasing funding for veterans to 
the President before Veterans Day, but President Bush is trying to use 
veterans funding as an excuse to veto other programs on which America 
depends. The President has also said funding a new GI bill for 
veterans' education is too expensive. Too expensive. Never have calls 
for fiscal responsibility been so morally irresponsible.

First and foremost, we can never forget the price tag our veterans 
have ultimately paid with their service, and the price tag for veterans 
services wouldn't be so high if this administration didn't recklessly 
send them into harm's way to begin with. The President seems to think 
we can't afford to spend on both veterans health and children's health. 
He seems to think we can't afford to treat the wounds our soldiers 
suffer and fund cancer research to save civilians from that brutal 
killer. He seems to think we can't afford to ensure the safety of our 
returning soldiers and make sure all Americans find safety in the 
workplace. But he did seem to think we could afford to chase Osama bin 
Laden in Afghanistan--as we should have--and then invade Iraq, even 
though both situations today are major challenges. He did seem to think 
we could fight a $2 trillion war in Iraq and give a massive tax cut to 
millionaires and billionaires, even though the economy hovers near 
recession and most American families are no better off now than they 
were at the beginning of this administration. He did seem to think he 
could sign every bill--every bill--the Republican-controlled Congress 
sent him, running up a debt to the tune of $3 trillion, borrowing money 
from foreign countries to pay for a war that makes no sense, ignoring 
pressing national priorities, underfunding care for veterans, leaving 
our ports vulnerable, leaving our educational systems underfunded, 
leaving the massive crisis in global climate change completely ignored, 
leaving children in this country without health care--because we have 
wanted to expand the number of uninsured children who have no health 
care coverage to those who would have health care coverage under our 
bill--leaving 47 million Americans with no health insurance whatsoever, 
and he thought that he could get away with all of it.


Well, Mr. President, now is the time for us to stand up and say: 
Sometimes you can't have it both ways. When it comes to children's 
health, when it comes to education and homeland security and veterans 
care, we had better be getting all the support we need.

On Sunday, our Nation devoted a day to those who devoted themselves 
to the Nation for military service. We took that day to celebrate how 
lucky we are--how lucky we are--and how unbelievably blessed we are as 
a nation to have such brave men and women rise again and again to offer 
their service when they hear the call. I hope we took that day to offer 
not just words but deeds of thanks.

A grateful nation not only goes to a Veterans Day observance or 
marches in a Memorial Day parade, as we should, but a grateful nation 
shows their gratitude by how we treat veterans in terms of getting them 
the health care they need, how we treat them in terms of taking care of 
their disabilities, and how we take care of the survivors of those who 
have made the ultimate sacrifice. That is the true measure of a 
grateful nation.

We took that day to remember the duty we have to them because of the 
devotion they have shown to us. Veterans Day is about a fundamental 
principle. When soldiers are shipped off to war, if we can look them in 
the eye and tell them there is a good reason we are waving goodbye, we 
better be able to look them in the eye when they come back and tell 
them we mean it when we say: Welcome home.

With 171,000 troops still in Iraq, I hope America's message on Sunday 
was: We look forward to the soonest possible year when you will 
celebrate Veterans Day here with all of us. We welcome you back, and we 
honor you by how we take care of you in your health care, for those who 
have disabilities, and how we have taken care of the families of those 
who have made the ultimate sacrifice. That will be the true measure of 
whether we are a grateful nation.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.