---
---

# PROGRESS IN IRAQ
## `b341ee2f90fec4daa3a83a6ce4f20474`
`Mr. KYL — 12 March 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, for weeks, I have been coming to the floor to 
discuss the signs of progress we are beginning to see as the military 
implements our new strategy in Iraq. Recent developments are 
encouraging. They include the following:

First of all, the Iraqi Cabinet approved a national oil compact, 
which is the beginning of a resolution of what to do with the revenues 
that are produced from the oil that is produced in Iraq. It is a vital 
step in ensuring a united Iraq, and Prime Minister Maliki called it a 
''gift to all of the Iraqi people.'' This is expected to be approved by 
the Iraqi legislature this spring.

Next is the capture recently of Abu Omar al-Baghdadi, the leader of 
al-Qaida in Iraq, the successor to al-Zarqawi, in the western outskirts 
of Baghdad. This represents a continuing increase in the number of 
terrorist chiefs who have been killed or captured.

Just last week, the Iraqi neighbors meeting was held. It generated a 
lot of press because both U.S. and Iranian representatives were 
present. It involved all 16 nations involved in the conflict. It was 
the neighbors of Iraq, as well as countries such as Great Britain and 
the United States. It was the largest meeting of foreign countries in 
Iraq since the summit meeting of the Arab League members in March of 
1990. There were working groups established to work on various problems 
all the countries had--for example, refugees from Iraq who have gone 
into Syria or Jordan. A special working group was created to try to 
deal with that issue.

This represents a step forward, all of which illustrates the fact 
that not only is the new strategy being implemented a military one but 
it involves diplomatic and economic and political factors as well.



It was interesting that the Prime Minister toured Baghdad to 
illustrate the security part of the new strategy that is beginning to 
work. He had been largely confined to the relatively safe Green Zone, 
as it is called, but on Sunday, he was able to go outside the wire to 
tour a power station, visit with police, and shake hands with ordinary 
Baghdad citizens. He attributed his newfound freedom of movement to the 
success of the Baghdad security plan, and he committed to redouble his 
efforts, saying: This operation will be accelerated at all levels in 
numbers and weaponry; we will not back down.

You have also seen successes in places such as Sadr City, where it is 
pretty clear that the Shiite militias have decided to stand down and 
not contest the Iraqi and American forces.

In fact, at the conclusion of my remarks, I will have printed in the 
Record two newspaper articles. One was written for the Washington Post 
on March 11, called ''The 'Surge' is Succeeding,'' by Robert Kagan. 
While the leaders in Iraq are not yet willing to publicly say the surge 
is succeeding, clearly evidence of that is on the ground, and at least 
the media--journalists--are entitled to conclude from what is happening 
that it is succeeding.

I was in Iraq a couple of weeks ago and was briefed by General 
Odierno and General Petraeus, as well as others. They all were 
cautiously optimistic that things were looking better on the ground. 
They just wanted to caution that there would be good days and bad; that 
the enemy has a say in this and they will strike back, certainly, all 
they can. And if the administration were to claim too much in the way 
of success too early and there was some kind of event that resulted in 
a lot of violence, there might be a suggestion that the administration 
was trying to put too nice a gloss on it. So the administration is 
trying to downplay the successes. But the reality is that there is news 
of success.

I think that makes all the more distressing and puzzling the effort 
by a lot of our colleagues not only to downplay the potential for 
success there but to develop strategies to undercut that success with 
resolutions that would micromanage the war from the Senate and, indeed, 
bind the hands of our commanders and our military as they begin to 
implement this program.

It is hard for me to fathom the amount of time and energy that has 
been put into the development of these various resolutions--at last 
count, some 17 different resolutions--that would, in one way or 
another, criticize the President's plan or try to find some way to stop 
it from occurring.

What is further puzzling and distressing is the degree to which this 
appears to be resulting from political considerations. Another one of 
the pieces I am going to ask to print in the Record is an article from 
March 12--that is today's Roll Call magazine--in which leaders on the 
Democratic side are quoted as referring to the political aspects of 
this strategy to try to get resolutions adopted.

The article talks about the Democratic leader's ''abandoning efforts 
at crafting a bipartisan deal'' and ''instead look to directly tie 
Republicans to the unpopular conflict. . . .''

The articles goes on to talk about ''the decision to ratchet up their 
partisan rhetoric''--''their'' meaning Democratic partisan rhetoric--by 
a resolution that sets ''specific dates for a mass redeployment of 
troops in Iraq and creating new restrictions on the war effort,'' and, 
indeed, that is what the latest resolution of the majority leader would 
do.

But the article goes on to talk about this ''more aggressive push to 
tar vulnerable Republicans up for re-election in 2008.'' That is not 
what we should be all about in debating the war in Iraq and designing 
solutions to ensure that war can be resolved successfully. It should 
not be about trying to tar vulnerable Members of the opposition party 
to diminish their reelection prospects in the year 2008.

The chairman of the Democratic Campaign Committee, the distinguished 
senior Senator from New York, has, according to this Roll Call article, 
''warned that Democrats would use the issue as a bludgeon on 
Republicans up for reelection next year,'' and they quote him as 
saying:




 The heat on these Republican Senators that are up in '08 is 


 tremendous.


Adding:




. . . this is a campaign . . . we are going to keep at [it].


To me, that is an illustration of something very wrong with the 
Democratic Party's approach to this war. Reasonable people can differ 
about whether we should be there and how we should conduct the 
operations once there. But we ought to be able to agree that our 
responsibility is to provide the funding or to cut it off. The 
President's responsibility as Commander in Chief is to do his best to 
see that the mission is achieved. That is what we are sending the 
troops over there to do. That is what General Petraeus was sent there 
to do. He was confirmed unanimously by this body a month or so ago.

When I was in Iraq, General Petraeus told us: Please see to it that 
we have what we need to fulfill our mission. Pass the supplemental 
appropriations bill to fund our effort and don't tie our hands with 
micromanagement from the Senate.

This is the message from the person we sent over to do the job. It 
seems to me this would be the wrong time to pull the rug out from under 
him and pull the rug out from under the troops just as there are signs 
of success, as I discussed earlier.

It is interesting, too, that there seem to be so many different 
approaches to this effort to criticize the President and his plan. I 
mentioned that at last count there are some 17 different resolutions. 
Somebody called it the ''Goldilocks'' strategy, with the Democratic 
leader searching for a solution that is neither too hot nor too cold. 
The real question is: In the House of Representatives, are they going 
to lose people on the left or the right or did they get it just right, 
with sufficient numbers of projects in the supplemental appropriations 
bill to appeal to those who may not like the end result with respect to 
the Iraq part of the resolution?

Some have labeled it a ''slow bleed'' because it appears to be a 
solution that doesn't cut off all the funding for the troops at this 
moment but, rather, over time makes it impossible for us to succeed.

The resolution, as I understand it, says we have to begin withdrawing 
our troops by a specific date and complete the withdrawal by another 
specific date. In the past, there has been a fairly good bipartisan 
consensus for the proposition that is the worst of all worlds, that you 
don't want to set a timetable for withdrawal because it gives the enemy 
precisely what they need to calibrate how long they have to hang in 
there until you are gone and then they can move in and take over and 
fill the vacuum. So it is a bad proposition, even apart from the 
political motivation behind it.

It is worth, taking a look at some of the iterations.

We started with S. 2, a nonbinding resolution, that it wasn't in the 
national interest of the United States to proceed. That was criticized 
as being nonbinding.

Then we move on to S. Con. Res. 7 that expressed disagreement with 
the plan. That didn't have sufficient support, so that was replaced by 
S. 470, the Levin bill. It expressed disagreement with the strategy but 
in a form the President would be forced to veto.

Then we moved on to the Reid-Pelosi proposal, S. 574. Not 
surprisingly, this approach had no more support than the others, and so 
we then moved on to the Biden-Levin proposal. That bill never even saw 
the light of day. It wasn't even debated.

Now we are down to S. J. Res. 9, a nonbinding resolution encouraging 
the President to redeploy all, or almost all, of the troops by the end 
of 2008. This has been described as a goal, and yet the resolution 
itself provides that it is much more than that; that the troops would, 
in fact, have to begin being redeployed and be fully redeployed by the 
end of March of 2008. I don't think this resolution will pass either 
because, as I said, most people agree setting a timetable for 
withdrawal is absolutely the worst thing you want to do, even if you 
don't agree with the troops being there in the first place.

As I said earlier, the amount of time and effort consumed in trying 
to craft the perfect Iraq resolution is difficult to square with all 
the other important business we have to do. The majority


leader, the chairmen of the Armed Services and Foreign Relations 
Committees, and other important Members of this body have devoted hours 
and hours to making grammatical edits to this legislation, even though 
none of it is going to pass.


Frankly, it is a good illustration of why wars should not be 
micromanaged by Congress. We are not good at conducting wars. That is 
why we have a Commander in Chief, that is why we have a Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, that is why we have our military commanders, such as General 
Petraeus, in whom we have placed a great deal of confidence, who have 
the experience to conduct these kinds of operations.

I daresay, there are not many of us who have the experience of the 
distinguished Presiding Officer, and it is important for us not to be 
armchair quarterbacks when lives are on the line.

Iraq is perhaps the most critical issue facing our country at the 
moment, and my comments are not meant to suggest that Iraq deserves 
anything less than a full and fair debate on the floor. It is one 
thing, however, to have a debate and let each side make its position 
known and then vote on competing proposals. It is quite another to 
devote this kind of energy to attempts which appear to be purely 
political attempts to undercut the President and undercut the mission 
in Iraq.

I believe the President has chosen a course that has the potential 
for success. That is why I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks 
some of the events which have been reported in the media that 
demonstrate early success. I, frankly, urge my colleagues to turn their 
energies to find ways to amplify these successes rather than to 
undercut them.

It is interesting that Lee Hamilton, the chairman of the Baker-
Hamilton commission, who has been cited many times by Members on both 
sides of the aisle, in testimony before the Congress has been insistent 
that now that the President has laid out a plan, that strategy should 
have a chance to succeed, that we should give it a chance to succeed.

By the way, even though the President at the time did not indicate 
what he would be doing specifically, since that report has come out, 
several of the recommendations have, in fact, been a part of what the 
administration strategy is following. For example, the strategy of 
meeting with people in the neighborhood is a followup on one of the 
Baker-Hamilton recommendations.

I agree with cochairman Lee Hamilton that we should give the strategy 
in Iraq a chance to succeed and not undercut it at the very moment it 
appears there are early signs of success with a resolution which, as I 
said, there had been a bipartisan consensus for that we shouldn't be 
setting a timetable for withdrawal since that simply plays into enemy 
hands.

The final document I will ask unanimous consent to be printed in the 
Record when I conclude is a piece from the L.A. Times, dated today, 
March 12. Headline: ''Do we really need a Gen. Pelosi?'' It refers, of 
course, to the distinguished Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
who is supporting the plan that has been put forth in the House of 
Representatives by the Democratic leadership there. To quote from this 
L.A. Times.com piece:




 After weeks of internal strife, House Democrats have 


 brought forth their proposal for forcing President Bush to 


 withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq by 2008. The plan is an unruly 


 mess: Bad public policy, bad precedent and bad politics. If 


 the legislation passes, Bush says he'll veto it, as well he 


 should.


This comes from the Los Angeles Times, no particular friend of this 
administration. The Times goes on to say that this kind of 
micromanagement ''is the worst kind of congressional meddling in 
military strategy.''

They go on to say:




 By interfering with the discretion of the commander in 


 chief and military leaders in order to fulfill domestic 


 political needs, Congress undermines whatever prospects 


 remain of a successful outcome.


Then they go on to criticize the Speaker and others for trying ''to 
micromanage the conflict . . . with arbitrary timetables and 
benchmarks.''

Concluding:




 Congress should not hinder Bush's ability to seek the best 


 possible endgame to this very bad war.


So a paper that does not like the war or support the administration 
generally, nevertheless, recognizes it should not be micromanaged from 
the Congress; that if there are any possibilities for it to succeed, we 
should be following those possibilities.

To sum it up, I simply say this: There is a chance for this strategy 
to succeed. We should give it a chance to succeed. Early signs are 
positive. We should not try to micromanage the war from the Congress. 
Therefore, when these resolutions come before us, we should reject them 
and allow our military commanders the opportunity that we have asked 
them to engage in to bring a successful conclusion to this war.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the articles to which I 
referred be printed in the Record.