# FAMILY SMOKING PREVENTION AND TOBACCO CONTROL ACT
## `b3411f6dcbace2cf49621bfd6be6875b`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, yesterday I reintroduced the Credit Card 
Fair Fee Act. This legislation will provide fairness and transparency 
in the setting of credit card interchange fees.

Several weeks ago, the Senate passed legislation that will crack down 
on abusive fees and practices that credit card providers impose on 
consumers and cardholders. It is landmark legislation. It was 20 years 
in the making. I was pleased to support it and glad it passed.

We also need to take a hard look at the fees and the restrictions 
credit card providers impose on retailers. Retailers such as the 
restaurant down on the corner, the grocery store, the shop, these have 
to be looked at as well.

Currently, banks and credit card companies impose a system of fees 
and restrictions on retailers that accept their cards as a form of 
payment. There is a growing recognition that many of these fees and 
restrictions are anticompetitive and unfair to businesses and 
consumers.

Many people assume credit cards make their money off the customers 
who use them in direct payment, interest charges, and penalties. It 
turns out there is a whole level of fees that is imposed on retailers 
which, obviously, is passed on to consumers but have a direct impact on 
sales in America. If we do not address flaws in the system, many 
businesses will find it hard to make a profit, and the credit card fees 
cause consumer prices to go up as well. The most flawed element of the 
current system of merchant fees is the interchange fee. It is a fee 
merchants pay to card issuing banks on each debit or credit card 
transaction.


Under the current system, card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard, 
unilaterally set the rates for these interchange fees. These fees vary 
from card to card, but they average about 2 percent of the transaction 
they cover. Card companies don't let their member banks negotiate with 
merchants over the fee rates, and they prevent merchants from 
encouraging customers to use cards that carry lower fees.

Yesterday, the Secretary of the Treasury was in before my 
appropriations subcommittee. It turns out, we accept credit cards for 
some 200 different agencies in the Federal Government. I asked the 
Secretary how much we pay in interchange fees to these credit card 
companies--as we accept credit card payments for everything from taxes 
to purchases at the Government Printing Office. It turns out it is well 
over $200 million a year. The GAO did a study in which it was asked 
whether, in fact, the Federal Government bargains for lower interchange 
fees because of the volume of business we do. It turns out there is 
virtually no bargaining allowed, not even with the Federal Government.

If merchants want to accept credit cards, those merchants simply have 
to abide by the rates, just like the Federal Government, that the card 
networks set, even when the rates are increased.

In fact, card companies regularly increase their interchange rates. A 
report by the Federal Reserve Bank in Kansas City found that between 
1996 and 2006 Visa and MasterCard interchange rates increased from 
approximately $1.30 per $100 transaction to $1.80. That is about a 40-
percent increase over that 10-year period of time. The rates have gone 
up even further for cards that have rewards programs. The total amount 
of interchange fees collected last year was $48 billion, according to 
estimates of the National Retail Federation. It is a huge increase from 
2001, when the figure was $16.6 billion.

Despite these rising fees, many merchants have no real choice but to 
accept these cards as a form of payment. Consumers use their credit and 
debt cards for over 40 percent of all transactions. Interchange fees 
cut into retailer profits and force many merchants to raise consumer 
prices or go out of business.

As you think about it, what does it mean for the profitability of a 
company if the business is required to pay the credit card company 2 
percent of the sale price on every sale? Well, for some companies that 
operate on a very tight margin, it can be significant. Best Buy, the 
large and successful electronics retailer, has a net profit margin of 
only 2.2 percent. Whole Foods, a well-known grocery store, has a profit 
margin of 1.4 percent. The food and drugstore retail sector has a 
profit margin of only 1.5 percent, according to Fortune magazine.

How can these companies continue to be profitable if rising 
interchange fees paid to credit card companies cut into their already 
small operating margins? In 2007, the National Association of 
Convenience Stores reported the entire convenience store industry had 
profits of $3.4 billion dollars; however, they paid credit card 
interchange fees of $7.6 billion. Over twice the amount of industry 
profit was paid to credit card providers.

Of course, it has an impact on smaller businesses. Rich Niemann, a 
friend of mine, who is coming by my office this afternoon in 
Washington, runs Niemann Foods, a chain of 65 grocery stores based in 
Quincy, IL. Every year I meet with him, and every year he asks me for 
help with interchange fees. Last year, Niemann Foods made $6 million in 
profits but paid $3 million in interchange fees. Those fee payments are 
going up every year. He has no ability to negotiate any change in those 
fee amounts. It is a growing expense he can't control.

Rising interchange fees cause many merchants to raise the price of 
their goods to cover these interchange fees. I don't want to drive 
small grocery stores out of business or small convenience stores. We 
don't want prices to go up for consumers across the board because of 
nonnegotiable credit card fees. The Credit Card Fair Fee Act will help 
restore fairness. The goal is simple. It incentivizes companies that 
provide credit cards and the merchants that accept them to sit down 
together and negotiate fees and terms both sides can live with.

The bill establishes a framework for negotiations and gives both 
sides a legitimate voice at the table. Under the bill, merchants would 
receive limited antitrust immunity to negotiate collectively with the 
providers of card systems over the fees and terms for access to the 
system. The bill then motivates the merchants and card providers to 
work out voluntary agreements. It establishes a mandatory period for 
negotiations.

If they fail to reach a voluntary agreement, the matter would then go 
to an arbitration-style proceeding before a panel of judges appointed 
by the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission. The judges 
would collect and disclose full information about credit card fees and 
costs and then order a mandatory settlement conference to attempt to 
facilitate a deal. If that fails, the judges would conduct a hearing 
where the merchants and card providers would each propose what they 
think is a fair set of fees and terms. The judges then would select the 
proposal that most closely represents what would be fairly negotiated 
in a competitive market. This set of fees and terms would govern access 
to the card system by merchants for a period of 3 years.

The bill contains safeguards to ensure the judges can only select a 
set of proposed fees and terms that is fair and pro-consumer. But the 
ultimate goal is to reach a deal before the process gets to the point 
where the judges would need to issue a ruling.

This is an archaic element of commerce in America that has a direct 
impact on consumers, the money we pay


for goods and services, as well as the profit margins of a lot of 
businesses that are struggling. The credit card companies have been 
unable to justify their interchange fees in terms of the actual cost of 
processing credit card payments. It is a profit margin on their side 
for which they are not accountable.

My legislation is supported by the Merchants Payments Coalition, a 
coalition of retailers, supermarkets, convenience stores, drugstores, 
fuel stations, online merchants and other businesses. The coalition's 
member associations collectively represent about 2.7 million stores 
nationwide, with approximately 50 million employees.

I ask my fellow colleagues in the Senate to take a look at the 
legislation. I warn them in advance, if they are interested in looking 
at this issue of credit cards and interchange fees, be prepared. You 
are going to hear from every bank that issues a credit card, and they 
are going to tell you the Durbin legislation is the end of the world. 
But I hope you will also listen to the merchants and retailers in the 
States you represent. They will tell you this system is unconscionable 
and unsustainable.

To have the credit card companies dictate these fees to their 
retailers all across America is fundamentally unfair. We should have 
arm's length negotiation. We should also have at the Federal Government 
level a negotiation to determine what is the best arrangement for 
taxpayers when it comes to paying these credit card fees to the 
companies that provide credit cards for transactions with the Federal 
Government. It is not an unreasonable approach.

I hope my colleagues will take a look at this issue, and I hope they 
will listen to their merchants and retailers back in their States.

















 Guantanamo


Mr. President, I wish to commend the Obama administration for the 
progress they have made to date on closing the detention facility at 
Guantanamo Bay. According to media reports today, the Obama 
administration has reached a historic agreement with the Government of 
Palau to transfer 17 Guantanamo detainees to this Pacific island. These 
17 detainees are Uighurs from China.

The Bush administration determined that all 17 are not enemy 
combatants and do not pose any risk to U.S. national security. The Bush 
administration had determined the Uighurs couldn't be legally returned 
to China, for fear they would be imprisoned and tortured. A Federal 
Court looked at all the classified evidence against these 17 Uighurs 
and found there was no legitimate reason to hold them and ordered them 
released. The President, this administration, is going to follow that 
court and follow the law.

I commend President Obama and those working with him for finding a 
solution to what has been a vexing problem by convincing the Government 
of Palau to accept Uighur detainees. This is the kind of diplomacy we 
need to achieve a better standing in the world and a more peaceful and 
secure situation for the United States.

Something else happened yesterday as well. There was an important 
development. The administration transferred Ahmed Ghailani to the 
United States to be prosecuted for his involvement in the 1998 bombings 
of our Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. Those bombings killed 224 
people, including 12 Americans. I have been to Kenya. I saw the bombed 
building. It was devastating. It is hard to imagine what happened 
inside that building and nearby when those bombs were detonated. We 
know 224 people died, including 12 of our own.

I wish to commend President Obama for his determination to hold Ahmed 
Ghailani accountable for his alleged crimes. For 7 long years, the Bush 
administration had failed to convict any of the terrorists who planned 
the 9/11 terrorist attacks. For 7 long years, only three individuals 
were convicted by military commissions at Guantanamo. Two of those 
individuals, incidentally, have been released. President Obama has been 
clear, it is a priority for his administration to bring to justice the 
planners of 9/11 and other terrorists who have attacked our country, 
such as Ahmed Ghailani.

Unfortunately, this issue has become very political and very 
complicated over the last several months. Some of my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle have expressed some things on the Senate floor 
which I don't think are consistent with the security of the United 
States. Senator McConnell, the distinguished minority leader, and 
Senator Kyl, the distinguished assistant minority leader, have argued 
we should not transfer suspected terrorists from Guantanamo to the 
United States in order to bring them to justice. They have argued we 
cannot safely hold any of these detainees in prison in the United 
States, even--one of their arguments--during the course of the trial.

When you look at the failed track record of prosecuting terrorists at 
Guantanamo, it is pretty clear if Ahmed Ghailani isn't prosecuted in 
the U.S. courts, there is a good chance he will never be punished for 
his crimes. President Obama made it clear when he said:




 Preventing this detainee from coming to our shores would 


 prevent his trial and conviction. And after over a decade, it 


 is time to finally see that justice is served, and that is 


 what we intend to do.


Even Senator Kyl appears to have softened his position. On the floor 
of the Senate yesterday, he spoke about Ahmed Ghailani and said:




 Everybody acknowledges that there are some people who need 


 to be tried for serious crimes, in effect, like war crimes, 


 and they should be tried in the United States.


I commend Senator Kyl for this statement. I think it is a sensible, 
reasonable position. But let us acknowledge the obvious: If we are 
going to try these Guantanamo detainees in the United States, we are 
going to incarcerate them while we try them. There is no other 
reasonable alternative. If they are found guilty and face imprisonment, 
what will we do with them? I am glad Senator Kyl acknowledged the 
obvious. Of course, we have to bring these terrorists to justice, and 
an American court is the best place to do it.

The U.S. Government frequently brings extremely dangerous individuals 
to the United States for prosecution. Ramzi Yousef--the mastermind of 
the 1993 World Trade Center bombings, captured in Pakistan--was brought 
to trial in the United States, convicted, and is now being held in a 
Federal supermaximum security prison, a convicted terrorist.

Some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle continue to 
argue we should not prosecute Guantanamo detainees in U.S. courts 
because no prison in America is safe to hold them. Ramzi Yousef was 
held in the Metropolitan Corrections Center in New York during the 
course of his trial for over 2 years--safely. My colleagues seem to 
think American corrections officers are not capable of safely holding 
terrorists. Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, who is a military 
lawyer, said:




 The idea that we cannot find a place to securely house 250-


 plus detainees within the United States is not rational.


What is the record? Today, our Federal prisons--and this is the most 
updated number from the Justice Department--hold 355 convicted 
terrorists, including al-Qaida leaders such as Ramzi Yousef, who 
masterminded the World Trade Center bombing in 1993. No prisoner has 
ever escaped from a Federal supermaximum security facility. Clearly, we 
know how to hold these terrorists safely and securely so no one in 
America is at risk.

Unfortunately, some on the other side of the aisle continue to argue 
that we should keep Guantanamo open at all costs. I disagree. I 
believe, President Obama believes, and I think many Americans believe 
that closing Guantanamo is an important national security priority. But 
it isn't just the President--and President Bush, for example--who want 
to close Guantanamo. Among those military and security leaders calling 
for the closing of Guantanamo are: GEN Colin Powell, the former 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and former Secretary of State; 
Republican Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham; former Republican 
Secretaries of State James Baker and Henry Kissinger and Condoleezza 
Rice; Defense Secretary Robert Gates, first appointed by President 
Bush; ADM Mike Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and 
GEN David Petraeus.

Yesterday, Senator Kyl made a statement taking issue with some of


my earlier comments about Guantanamo.

Senator Kyl asked: ''What is wrong with the prison at Guantanamo?''

Let me respond to Senator Kyl's question. What is wrong with 
Guantanamo is that it is a recruiting tool for al-Qaeda and other 
terrorists.

That is not just my opinion. That is the opinion of our military 
leaders, based on their experiences fighting the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mike Mullen said:




 The concern I've had about Guantanamo is it has been a 


 recruiting symbol for those extremists and jihadists who 


 would fight us. That's the heart of the concern for 


 Guantanamo's continued existence.


General David Petraeus said Guantanamo is, ''a symbol that is used by 
our enemies to our disadvantage. We're beat around the head and 
shoulders with it.''

And Defense Secretary Robert Gates said:




 Closing Guantanamo is essential to national security. It 


 has become a rallying cry and recruitment tool for our 


 enemies--endangering the lives of our soldiers in the field, 


 diminishing the willingness of American allies to help wage 


 the fight against al-Qaida and undermining the moral 


 authority of the country.


Of course, Senator Kyl is entitled to his point of view and I respect 
him and count him as a friend. But he offers no evidence to support his 
view, certainly no evidence that compares with those I have quoted 
here, starting with Gen. Colin Powell.

Not only is Guantanamo a recruiting tool for terrorists in the Middle 
East. There is evidence that al-Qaida is actually recruiting terrorists 
in Guantanamo itself. McClatchy Newspapers conducted an extensive 
investigation and concluded:




 Instead of confining terorists, Guantanamo often produced 


 more of them by rounding up common criminals, conscripts, 


 low-level foot soldiers and men with no allegiance to radical 


 Islam . . . and then housing them in cells next to radical 


 Islamists.


McClatchy found that, ''Guantanamo became a school for jihad'' and 
''an American madrassa.''

Rear Admiral Mark Buzby, the former commander of Guantanamo's 
detention facility, said, ''I must make the assumption that there's a 
fully functioning Al-Qaeda cell here at Guantanamo.''

Senator Kyl also continues to claim that no one was abused at 
Guantanamo and that there is no connection between the abuses at Abu 
Ghraib and Guantanamo. I commend him for his reading of the Senate 
Armed Services Committee Report.

But the Senate Armed Services Committee issued a bipartisan report 
that reached a different conclusion. Senator Levin, the chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee, and Senator McCain, the ranking member of the 
committee, found, ''Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld's 
authorization of aggressive interrogation techniques for use at 
Guantanamo Bay was a direct cause of detainee abuse there.''

Senators Levin and McCain also concluded, on a bipartisan basis, that 
there was a connection between the abuses at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo. 
They said:




 The abuse of detainees at Abu Ghraib in late 2003 was not 


 simply the result of a few soldiers acting on their own. 


 Interrogation techniques such as stripping detainees of their 


 clothes, placing them in stress positions, and using military 


 working dogs to intimidate them appeared in Iraq only after 


 they had been approved for use in Afghanistan and at GITMO.


And, as I said yesterday, Susan Crawford, a top Bush administration 
official, concluded that Mohammad Al-Qahtani, the so-called 20th 
hijacker, could not be prosecuted for his role in the 9/11 attacks 
because he was tortured at Guantanamo Bay.

For many years, President Bush said that he wanted to close the 
Guantanamo detention facility, and there were few, if no complaints 
from the Republican side. But the President never followed through on 
his commitment.

Now that President Obama has made that same call, we hear this chorus 
of opposition. I think President Obama has accepted the challenge--the 
challenge to make certain that these detainees are treated in a 
responsible way; that those who should stand trial will stand trial for 
their crimes and war crimes; that those who cannot be brought to 
article 3 courts in America should be tried before reformed military 
tribunals that have rules of evidence and procedure more consistent 
with our values and laws; that some will be returned, like the Uighurs, 
if they pose no threat, to places where they cannot threaten the United 
States and that some will be kept in detention because they continue to 
be a threat to our Nation. That is a responsible course of conduct. It 
deserves bipartisan support.

I yield the floor.