# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `b35aec0a45bbdc2324d6e6af29e413c5`
`Ms. STABENOW — 20 March 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, the comment I have, when we look at what 
the Senator from Alabama is talking about, he is basically saying that 
the tax cuts that were passed, first of all, were a good idea for most 
Americans and that he wants to make it as difficult as possible to 
change that. So when we look at what happened this last year, if you 
have more than $1 million that you earned in some way--unearned income 
or earned income--more than $1 million, you received $118,477 from the 
President's tax cuts last year. So what this amendment would do is say 
basically that they like this ratio. The less you made last year, the 
less you got. In fact, less than $100,000 in income, a family making 
less than $100,000 got $692. If you were willing to run that out even 
further, you had a lot of folks who maybe got $30, $40, $50 from this 
tax cut. So this locks in this kind of a tax cut.

We don't think this is fair. This budget resolution changes the way 
we look at tax cuts going forward and basically says we want tax cuts 
going to middle-class Americans. We want tax cuts going to the majority 
of Americans who are working hard every day, worried about their kids, 
who want to be able to send them to college, want to be able to have 
health care for them, and want a job, a good-paying job in America. 
These are the folks we are focusing on in this budget.



There is no question about it. This budget resolution is a new 
direction. It is a new day. It is a new set of values and priorities. 
The idea of saying, as this amendment does, that we should make it 
harder to change this, harder to rearrange things here or to maybe move 
some of those dollars over into making sure kids can go to college or 
making sure they have health care or their folks have health care or 
making sure we keep our promises to our veterans--those are the 
priorities in our budget.

Essentially, this amendment would say, if we need to address our 
veterans through adding dollars to make sure they have the health care 
they need, if we need to do more as we investigate and see what is 
unfolding with Walter Reed and other parts of the VA system and so on, 
that it would take more votes, it would take 60 votes to do something 
that would help our veterans but it would only take 50 votes to be able 
to continue this kind of a tax cut, this kind of a structure.

We reject that. We reject that set of values and priorities. They 
have been in place for 6 years, and I believe the American people have 
rejected those priorities with the changes in majority and the change 
in leadership that was made and that has begun as of January. What we 
have is a different approach.

First of all, as our distinguished budget chairman has said, we do 
want to say for new spending--whether it is tax cuts or other kinds of 
spending--we do want, overall, to make it a little tougher by having a 
60-vote requirement because we want to make sure we are paying 
attention to lowering the deficit and moving in the other direction, to 
stop this spending using Social Security that has been going on for 
years and years.

But also in our budget, within that context, we have changed the 
priorities on the spending. We have said let's be fiscally responsible 
on any new mandatory spending, any new tax cuts, and require that 
people come together in a bipartisan way. It is a conscious choice, a 
supermajority vote. But we have also said we are going to increase the 
budget in education.

Earlier we heard from colleagues talking about all the new money that 
has been put into education under this President. The fact is that if 
you include this President's budget for next year, the Leave No Child 
Behind legislation is underfunded by over $70 billion. We put more 
dollars into education because we know it is about opportunity for our 
kids, it is about economic competitiveness, it is about creating 
opportunity--to dream big dreams and go as far as you can in the 
greatest country in the world--and that we have to focus on education.

Our budget does that. Our budget also says that part of what we need 
to do is invest in children's health care. For working families, those 
folks whose minimum wage we raised who do not have health insurance 
with their job, who are working one job, two jobs, three jobs, to try 
to make ends meet, we think they ought not have to go to bed worried 
about whether their kids are going to get sick; with a prayer at night 
saying: Please, God, don't let my kids get sick.

The SCHIP program is about making sure we support those working 
families, and we made a commitment in this budget to say we want every 
child from that working family--every child who does not have insurance 
to be able to receive insurance. This budget keeps its commitment to 
its veterans. This budget provides real middle-class tax cuts.

Not what is on this chart. I am not interested in adding. Can you 
imagine, $118,000-plus is the tax cut for last year? That is more than 
the average person in Michigan or anywhere in this country makes in a 
year. That is more than they make in a year.

We say we need a different kind of tax cut. For the folks who are 
making less than $118,000 a year, for the folks who are working hard 
every day, we want to change this picture. This amendment would 
basically say: The current tax cuts that are in place are great, we 
want to make it harder to change them. They keep in place something 
that frankly has been so unfair to middle-class Americans.

All over Michigan, when you talk to folks about tax cuts, most people 
say to me: What tax cuts? What are you talking about? I did not get a 
tax cut. You mean that tax cut that went into place in 2001?

You don't remember getting that big tax cut? Most people never saw 
that tax cut. That is why if you earned more than half a million 
dollars last year, you saw it, $21,000 worth. If you earned more than 
$1 million last year, you got over $118,000 in tax cuts.

We need a new direction. That is what this budget resolution is 
about, a new direction for the country that says: It is about 
everybody. It is about everybody who works hard every day, who gets up 
in the morning, does their best knowing they are going to be able to 
share in tax cuts.

But they are also going to be able to share in a community, in an 
educational system that works for the kids, being able to send them to 
college; that they are going to be able to share in the great health 
care we have in this country. We have got the greatest health care in 
the world. We have got 50 million people with no health insurance.

We spend twice as much money as any other country in the Western 
Hemisphere on our health care coverage. We are saying: We can do this 
better. We can do this differently so that American families reap the 
benefit of working hard and know that the future of this country is 
available to them for the great things about this country, the health 
care system, access to college, good schools are available to them.

Then we go further and we say: We want to make sure you have enough 
police officers on the streets and firefighters and that local 
communities can take care of water and sewer needs and other issues and 
protect the environment; in Michigan, it is the Great Lakes and our 
air, to be able to breathe the air, and on and on.

There is a set of things that we are committed to doing. The good 
thing is all that domestic spending we have talked about, that $18 
billion in increased spending, 17 percent of the entire budget, only 17 
percent of the entire budget, our investments that we are talking about 
for the people of this country.

Let me also say again, when we talk about differences and where 
dollars go, $10 billion, $10 billion a year is needed to make sure 
every kid in this country has health care. That is what we are spending 
in 1 month in Iraq--1 month in Iraq worth of funding to fund every 
child in America with health care coverage.

We believe we need to be doing that. In fact, the entire increase in 
investments in the future for this country's health care, science, 
education, protecting the environment, law enforcement, all of it adds 
up to less than 2 months' spending in Iraq.

What this amendment would say is we are going to make it very hard to 
do any other kind of investments for the American people, American 
families, but we are going to make it easy to extend this kind of tax 
cut for people earning over $1 million a year.

I hope we will say no. I hope we will say yes to the budget 
resolution. We are bringing back fiscal responsibility and stopping 
digging so the hole does not get any bigger and we can get out of it. 
We are redirecting the priorities of this country to reflect what the 
majority of Americans want to see happen for the future of this country 
and for the future of kids.