---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b35fa4165988fc5ce72b8554a61f0f6b`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this 
bipartisan resolution that expresses disapproval of the President's 
escalation of troops in Iraq. In October of 2002, I stood on this floor 
in this House and voted against giving the President authority to wage 
war in Iraq. And I did so because I strongly believed that Congress 
should not abdicate its war powers and hand over to the President a 
blank check on the war.

I also recognized, having served on the Armed Services Committee and 
on the Terrorist Task Force prior to 9/11, that the evidence was not 
there. I may not agree with how this war has been handled, but I, along 
with everyone here and all of my colleagues on both sides, firmly stand 
by our troops. It is our servicemen and -women who are making a great 
sacrifice on the battlefield on behalf of all of us here in this 
Chamber and everyone across the United States.

And they, the troops, all deserve our unequivocal support. This war 
is creating a new generation of veterans and a new generation of needs 
for them. Today, over 25,000 both dead and wounded have been reported, 
while this body continues to appropriate billions of dollars to the 
administration for this war.

Let us remember our veterans and the cost to fulfill the promise that 
we have made to them for medical care. Today, the issue is not whether 
we were right or wrong to grant the President such broad authority in 
regards to this war in Iraq, but instead how he has exercised that 
power, what the results have been, and what his plans are for the 
future.

We have now entered the fifth year of this war. And I ask you, what 
progress have we made? What is our exit strategy? It is not a new 
question. It was a question that was raised from the very beginning 
when we went into this war, and when we raised it in the Armed Services 
Committee. This war and the reckless strategy behind it have cost us 
Americans some $532 billion, and over 3,100 American lives, as well as 
over 3,000 serious injuries.

It has resulted in increased sectarian violence and an uncertain 
future in Iraq. Madam Speaker, I think most of us here know that we 
need a new direction, and a new direction is justified. I can assure 
you that the American people want a new direction.

But what the President has offered to them is more of the same. The 
President is now asking for a massive escalation of over 20,000 troops. 
The escalation plan will not work, just like the previous troop surges 
that we have had have not worked. Madam Speaker, the American people 
have asked and have had enough. And with an up-and-down vote on this 
resolution, this Congress will not only send a message to the President 
regarding his misguided policy, but also send a message to the American 
people that their Congress is listening, it is here, and it is calling 
for a new direction.

I oppose this escalation plan because more troops in combat means 
more casualties and more loss of American lives. I have been to Walter 
Reed Medical Center, and I have seen our injured young men and women 
coming back from the battlefield. I have seen the sacrifice of what 
this war has done to our families and our loved ones.

Earlier this week, my office was visited by Mr. Jim Goodnow. He is a 
veteran from my district and an active member of the Veterans for 
Peace. Mr. Goodnow has traveled all over the country from his home base 
in Terlinqua, Texas, aboard his bus dubbed the Yellow Rose. He has been 
spreading the message of peace for many years.

Mr. Goodnow is not alone. And with this resolution we want to make it 
clear that this Congress and America and the American people have had 
enough. No more blank checks, no more violence, and no more escalation.



Madam Speaker, it is time that we stand by our country and stand up 
for our troops. I strongly urge my colleagues to support this 
bipartisan resolution.