---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `b379a05a466a2900db7e5fcef45e4061`
`Mr. DODD — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, first, I thank my colleague from Michigan. I 
commend him, along with Senator Biden, my chairman of the Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee, and our majority leader, Senator Reid, and 
others for the tremendous effort they have put into these matters over 
the last number of weeks. I haven't always agreed with my leaders in 
the majority on the course of action, but I have respect for their 
efforts to try and build consensus. I admire that. I always doubted 
whether consensus is something we ought to try and get on an issue such 
as this. Clarity, accountability, real proposals that require up-or-
down votes that result in action I think in the long term may be 
necessary here. I respect immensely the efforts they have made to bring 
as many people as is possible under the same umbrella in dealing with 
this issue.

Once again, we find ourselves debating the same basic issue with 
respect to United States policy in Iraq, namely, when is the President 
going to admit his policy is a failure? From how many different places 
do you have to hear that--from the Baker-Hamilton report, to the 
analysis by military leaders. Over and over, the conclusion has been 
the same. This is not a conclusion I have arrived at myself, it is one 
that has been arrived at by almost every group of people or individuals 
who know anything about this matter. This policy must be fundamentally 
changed. The course must be changed to empower the Iraqis to take 
responsibility for their collective future. If they do that, there is a 
chance that stability and a better future for them can emerge. If they 
don't, there is not a treasury deep enough or an army big enough to do 
that for them.

How many debates, how many reports, how many more of our young men 
and women are going to be killed or wounded until the President and his 
advisers acknowledge the President's policy has been a failure, 
unfortunately, from almost the outset?



How long will it be before the administration begins a true 
diplomatic offensive to help the Iraqis and their neighbors secure a 
political solution that everyone has concluded is the only possible way 
this matter can have an outcome that offers some hope to the people of 
that country?

How many times can the administration and some of our colleagues here 
claim that any debate, any dissent, any action that departs one iota 
from the President's policy is somehow unpatriotic, words we have heard 
too often in this Chamber and elsewhere to describe those who have a 
different point of view--I emphasize ''a point of view''--that has been 
embraced by people without any adherence to a political party or 
ideology who have reached the same conclusion that this policy is not 
working at all.

Jingoism and facile claims about ''support the troops,'' about ''good 
versus evil,'' about ''victory versus defeat'' can no longer, I think, 
be tolerated--in fact, they should never have been tolerated in the 
first place.

Let's stop invoking the inverted logic, as our colleague from 
Virginia, Senator Webb, so aptly described it, of claiming that because 
there are troops are in harm's way, we, therefore, have to stay the 
course.

We all know we have troops in the field. We all honor the sacrifices 
they have made. They are a remarkable group of people. Like many of my 
colleagues, I have been there on several occasions over the past couple 
of years. Regardless of one's view on policy, the admiration for the 
job these individuals are doing ought to be very high. In my case, it 
is. It is rather remarkable the service they are providing. It is the 
policy that needs changing.

No one is suggesting our troops don't deserve all the support they 
can get, but supporting our troops and opposing a policy ought not to 
require the kind of gymnastics that some of our colleagues who oppose 
any changes suggest.

Having troops deployed overseas should not prevent us from debating 
critically important issues relating to the wisdom of staying the 
failed course the President has charted. In fact, we do a grave 
disservice to our troops by not having a public debate to shed light on 
the many questions and concerns that arise from our current involvement 
in Iraq.

I have publicly stated many times over recent months that this body 
should urgently take strong, binding action to force the President to 
change his Iraq policy. While this resolution before us does not 
represent as forceful an approach to accomplishing that goal as I would 
propose, it does take the United States one step closer to ending U.S. 
combat involvement in Iraq, and for that reason I am going to support 
it as a first step in what I think is the right direction.

This resolution goes beyond simply expressing disagreement with the 
President, which is the problem I had with earlier resolutions. It puts 
this Congress on record as authorizing a ''prompt commencement of 
phased redeployment of United States forces from Iraq.'' It spells out 
the transition of the mission for the limited forces that would remain 
after the phased redeployment of combat forces have been completed.

This resolution unequivocally states that the United States should 
begin a phased redeployment of U.S. combat forces from Iraq. It states 
that the American forces remaining in Iraq should have a very different 
and more restricted mission: training, equipping Iraqi security forces, 
force protection, and targeted counterterrorism operations.

Crucially, this resolution also states that the redeployment of U.S. 
forces shall be part of a comprehensive, diplomatic, political, and 
economic strategy, and it requires the President to develop such a 
strategy, a strategy that has been seemingly nonexistent and that is 
critical to the stabilization of Iraq.

I am concerned, however, that the resolution allows for as many as 
120 days from the date of enactment to pass before the President must 
commence the redeployment of U.S. combat forces. I firmly believe this 
redeployment can and must begin far sooner, and that we should set a 
hard target date for the completion of this phased redeployment rather 
than a soft goal of the end of March 2008, as stated in the resolution.

We face a region-wide crisis of credibility, a crisis that was caused 
by very bad policy choices rather than fate, as some would suggest. 
While the United States may still remain an enormous military power, 
and we are, our power to influence has been greatly diminished, 
unfortunately. It is this power to influence that is critical, I think, 
to America's interest in the region and to the future of Iraq and its 
neighbors.

It is my strong hope that the passage of this resolution will bring 
the United States one step closer to ending our intervention in Iraq's 
civil war and one step closer to developing and employing critical, 
comprehensive, diplomatic, political, and economic strategies in Iraq 
and in the wider region.

Based on past experience, however, I have no confidence whatsoever 
that this President will pay any attention to this resolution or this 
congressional debate. That has been the history of the administration 
over the past many months. So I say to my colleagues, if you are truly 
sincere in your support, as I believe you are, for the policies 
expressed in this legislation, then I think we must be prepared to do 
far more in the coming days, I hope in the short days, to bring an end 
to this destructive and futile policy, including the exercise of the 
congressional powers of the purse. We need to stop financing the 
administration's reckless strategy and put critical resources into 
rebuilding our military. Our troops deserve no less from this Congress.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.