---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `b37b0917deb18739caeb5ee8e05c09fd`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 26 April 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of this 
supplemental appropriations conference report, and let me begin by 
thanking Senator Byrd, the chairman of our Appropriations Committee, 
who has worked diligently throughout the process to bring us to this 
point today where we are addressing the critical infrastructure needs 
of this country as well as moving forward and changing course in Iraq.

I also thank and commend our majority leader, Senator Reid, for his 
courage and his diligence in speaking out to get us to a point where we 
will be sending a message to the President and to the country that we 
are willing to be courageous and change course in Iraq.

The agreement before us takes us on a responsible path on many of the 
most pressing issues of the day--the war in Iraq, as we have talked 
about and I spoke about on the floor yesterday, moving forward with the 
needs of our veterans and our injured servicemembers, homeland 
security, and the needs of our hard-hit communities here at home.

I realize my colleagues across the aisle would prefer that Congress 
obediently approve the President's request, but we are not. Instead, we 
are providing a funding bill that meets the needs of the American 
people and those bravely serving for us overseas and all of those here 
at home.

Last November, on November 7, the American people called for an end 
to the rubberstamp Congress, and today we are here to deliver. This is 
not, as some have tried to say, simply a war-funding bill. Instead, it 
provides funding for critical needs here at home in addition to the 
$100 billion in funding that is directed to our troops who are serving 
us so honorably overseas.

In recent weeks, there has been a lot of heated rhetoric and plenty 
of mischaracterizations about this important bill. Much of that has 
focused on the critically necessary language that is included in this 
bill that will transition our mission in Iraq and begin to redeploy our 
troops.

As Senator Byrd stated, there is much more in this bill. We need to 
pass this legislation because we need a new direction in Iraq, but we 
also need to pass this bill because it provides everything our troops 
need to complete their mission. It provides billions of dollars more to 
take care of them when they come home, and it will, finally, help 
American communities recover and rebuild.

In addition to funding for the troops overseas, this conference 
agreement provides more than $5 billion to ensure that our returning 
troops and veterans get the critically important healthcare they have 
earned and deserve and which we now so vividly see is needed.

It provides $6.9 million for the victims of Hurricane Katrina and 
Hurricane Rita. Senator Landrieu has been on the floor many times to 
talk about those families who have been forgotten on the gulf coast. We 
have not forgotten them in this bill, and this must get to the 
President and be signed to take care of those families.

We provide $2.25 billion in homeland security investments, including 
funds for port security and mass-transit security, for explosives 
detection equipment at our airports, and for initiatives in the 9/11 
bill that recently passed here in the Senate. These are needs which we 
cannot forget, and we include them in this bill.

We provide $3/1/2/ billion to provide relief for our farmers and our 
ranchers across the country. There are many families who are struggling 
and who have suffered from drought and agricultural disasters. For too 
long, we have forgotten them in this country or ignored them or blocked 
their needs. The Senate today is saying we have not forgotten.

Finally, this conference agreement includes emergency funding for 
forest firefighting, a critical need throughout the West; low-income 
energy assistance, drastically needed in many of our communities; and 
pandemic flu preparations that all of us know we cannot forget.

I was on the floor yesterday to talk about much of the funding, but 
critically important is the funding for our troops and our veterans 
when they come home. We all vividly saw the Walter Reed scandal just a 
few weeks ago. We provide the funding to make sure our soldiers, 
whether they are at Walter Reed or any of our facilities across the 
country, get the best of care, from traumatic brain injury to post-
traumatic stress syndrome.

Of course, again, we do have the Iraq language, which is so critical. 
I hope our colleagues, as we move this bill to the President, will 
remind him and the country that this bill is essential for our troops, 
for those of us here at home, and for the future of this country. We 
urge him to read the bill and to sign it.