---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `b37bd79dbd3da88088840de40227416e`
`Mr. CARDIN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, we are here today--after more than 5 
years, 4,000 American lives lost, 30,000 wounded, and nearly $600 
billion spent--to discuss funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I have always believed invading Iraq was a mistake. I voted against 
granting our President that authority in 2002. I have opposed, from the 
beginning the way this administration carried out that effort once 
begun. Last year, when the 2007 emergency supplemental appropriations 
bill came before the Senate, I, along with a majority of my colleagues, 
passed a bill that would have brought our troops home. The President 
chose to veto that bill. If he had signed it, most of our troops would 
be home today.

Instead, we now have more troops in Iraq than we did more than 5 
years ago when President Bush declared our mission accomplished. The 
grave costs of his aimless strategy continue to plague us both at home 
and abroad.

Former President John F. Kennedy said, ''To govern is to choose.'' 
President Bush has repeatedly chosen to pursue his war in Iraq, despite 
its costs to our nation. After voters sent an overwhelming message that 
they wanted a different direction, President Bush charged full steam 
ahead. In his ''New Way Forward'' speech on January 10, 2007, President 
Bush announced his decision to place more troops in Iraq.

But even the President recognized, and I quote, ''A successful 
strategy for Iraq goes beyond military operations. Ordinary Iraqi 
citizens must see that military operations are accompanied by visible 
improvements in their neighborhoods and communities. So America will 
hold the Iraqi government to the benchmarks it has announced.'' 
''America's commitment,'' he said, ''is not open-ended.''

As General Petraeus stated in a March Washington Post interview, ''no 
one'' in the U.S. and Iraqi Governments ''feels that there has been 
sufficient progress by any means in the area of national 
reconciliation,'' or in the provision of basic public services. And, in 
fact, only 3 of the 18 benchmarks the Iraqi Government and our 
Government agreed were important have been fully accomplished.

President Bush, however, has not held the Iraqi Government 
accountable for its failures as he promised. Instead, he has asked for 
over $170 billion to stay the present course: arming opposing militias, 
meddling in intra-Shi'a violence, and tinkering around the edges of the 
growing refugee crisis. The President wants money for his war, but says 
he will veto any conditions on those funds or any additional funds this 
Congress offers for the other urgent needs that face our Nation's 
troops, our Nation's families, and our Nation's economy.

To govern is to choose. I believe it is past time for a more 
comprehensive strategy in Iraq under which our current, unsustainable 
military presence evolves into a longer term diplomatic role. I believe 
it is past time to hold President Bush to his promise that American 
support to the Iraqi Government is not open ended.

So I will vote against providing any additional funds for this war 
until we have a new mission for our Armed Forces. I will also vote 
against a provision that merely suggests a new mission for United 
States forces in Iraq. The time for suggestions, pleas, and protests 
has passed. The President has demonstrated that these fall on deaf 
ears.

Because our troops remain mired in an Iraqi civil war, we as a nation 
remain distracted from efforts to combat terrorists and extremists in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan where they pose the greatest threat. We have 
stretched our military too thin. We have pushed our troops too far. 
Beyond the priceless cost in life and limb, the nearly $600 billion and 
counting we have spent in Iraq has kept us from rebuilding the gulf 
coast, improving our infrastructure, fixing our schools, and providing 
quality health care for all.

So far, Maryland has paid over $10 billion for the war in Iraq. With 
just that share of the cost of the war we could have:

Provided over 2 million people with health care;

Powered over 9 million homes with energy from renewable sources;

Put over 200,000 new public safety officers on the street;



Given over 1 million students scholarships to university; or

Allowed over 1 million children a brighter beginning in Head Start.

To govern is to choose. I am proud to vote for provisions, above and 
beyond the President's request, that will provide additional funds for 
barracks improvements, restore $1.2 billion in BRAC military 
construction funding, and provide nearly $440 million to construct 
world class VA polytrauma centers.

I am especially pleased to vote to provide veterans returning from 
Iraq and Afghanistan with a new level of educational benefits that will 
cover the full costs of an education at a State institution. President 
Bush and some of my colleagues say the benefit is too generous. But 
this country provided our troops a similar opportunity after World War 
II. That investment created a generation of great leaders and an 
economic boom that transformed our country.

A new GI bill allows a new generation of brave men and women to 
fulfill their dreams and adjust to civilian life. That is an 
opportunity we owe veterans who this administration has asked to serve 
extended and repeated combat tours. A new GI bill is also a wise 
investment; it allows our economy to fully benefit from these veterans' 
talent, leadership, and experience.

I believe that the Iraqi refugee crisis, international disasters in 
China and Myanmar as well as an international food crisis require bold 
action by our government. I am proud to support significant additional 
aid to Jordan who has accepted hundreds of thousands of Iraqi refugees, 
as well as disaster assistance and global food aid above and beyond the 
President's request.

We have an obligation to respond to the growing economic crisis and 
the needs it has created for American families. People are losing their 
homes and their jobs, and along with those jobs, their health care. 
Since March 2007, the number of unemployed has increased by 1.1 million 
workers. I find it unbelievable that the President would threaten to 
veto emergency assistance for Americans in crisis.

So I am happy that this Senate has ignored the President's veto 
threats and I support provisions that extend unemployment benefits by 
13 weeks for all the nation's workers and by an additional 13 weeks in 
those States with the highest unemployment rates. Extending 
unemployment benefits helps families. That is critically important. But 
it will also help our economy. Economists estimate that every dollar 
spent on benefits leads to $1.64 in economic growth.

The bill extends a freeze on seven Medicaid rules issued by the 
administration that would have put a tremendous burden on State and 
local budgets already under pressure and affected access to services 
for Marylanders and Americans all around the country. This bill also 
makes critical investments in our infrastructure including roads, dams, 
and levees; increases energy assistance by $1 billion to low-income 
Americans facing skyrocketing fuel prices; and provides commercial 
fishery disaster assistance that could help Maryland's watermen.

These are only a few of the critical investments this bill makes in 
our Nation. With this emergency supplemental legislation, we chose to 
address many of the most pressing issues of our time.