---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `b384e0a81a8f3456af339c5a431220a1`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 25 June 2009`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Chairman, this amendment would ban the use of 
open-air burn pits overseas after 12 months. Such a dangerous waste 
disposal method should only be used temporarily while a permanent and 
safe alternative is developed. The amendment specifically prohibits the 
burning of medical and hazardous waste or solid waste containing 
plastic in open-air pits. The burning of such wastes produces chemicals 
that have proven toxic to humans and represents an unacceptable health 
risk.



The U.S. military has been disposing of hundreds of tons of war zone 
waste through burn pits. All who live and work on these bases are 
routinely exposed to the smoke from these pits, which includes waste 
from medical facilities, dining facilities, maintenance facilities, as 
well as trash. To imagine the scale of these burn pits, the one at 
Balad Air Base in Iraq has increased from 2 tons per day early on to 
several hundred tons per day.

We simply must protect our troops who have had repeated exposure to 
this. We do not wish to see an Agent Orange situation develop here. And 
so I ask that we set some limits on the burning of these pits.

These pits pose a very serious health risk to our troops. Of the 
nearly 2 million servicemembers who have deployed, a significant 
portion has been exposed to the fumes and smoke from such burn pits. Up 
to now, we have continued to dispose of solid wastes this way. But 6 
years in Iraq and 8 years in Afghanistan is far longer than anyone can 
possibly justify as an emergency measure. I understand that sometimes 
they may have to do this for 3 or 6 or even 12 months, but it has been 
8 years!

In the past, we've been to slow to acknowledge the health effects of 
Agent Orange and Gulf War Illness. We cannot let that happen to our 
servicemembers again. For decades, it was impossible for them to access 
the VA medical services they needed and deserved because there was no 
recognition of the damage Agent Orange had done. We saw this again, 
after the Gulf war. In 2008, a study by the National Academy of 
Sciences validated what veterans of the Gulf War already knew--that 
Persian Gulf War illness is very real.

There is a good reason why it is illegal to have open-air burn pits 
for disposal of medical and hazardous wastes in our country: they 
pollute and degrade the environment, and harm people's health. If we 
wanted to burn those chemicals here in America and expose people here, 
the EPA would swoop down, and we'd be penalized because you can't do 
that. And why can't you do it--because it's dangerous to our health.

If we support the troops, don't we also support their health? Don't 
we have the same concerns about their health when they're supporting 
our country and fighting overseas as we do when they live here in our 
communities? When they deploy, our servicemembers put their lives at 
risk to fight for us, and do not deserve to suffer this added, 
unjustifiable risk. Preventable environmental hazards must not result 
in ruined health or lost lives.

This amendment takes a critically important step toward addressing 
the health risks that burn pits pose to our troops. It has been 
endorsed by the American Legion, DAV, IAVA, MOAA, the National Guard 
Association, Veterans and Military Families for Progress, and the VFW. 
And I thank my friend, Mr. Bishop, for being a leader on this issue and 
standing up for our troops.