---
---

# REMEMBRANCE OF NAVY PETTY OFFICER ZARIAN WOOD
## `b3895841a3460ad1f2e68aac8d84e2ca`
`Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas — 26 May 2010`

---


Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to extend my 
deepest sympathies to the family and friends of Navy PO Zarian Wood, 
who died May 16 while serving in Helmand Province, Afghanistan, 
according to the Department of Defense.

Petty Officer Wood of Houston was a 1999 graduate of South Houston 
High School who had served as a youth minister and tutor before 
enlisting in the Navy. Known to friends and family as a giving young 
man, he followed his father's footsteps in service to his country.

Petty Officer Wood was deployed to Iraq as a hospital corpsman from 
2007-2008 and upon returning home he volunteered for a second combat 
tour in Afghanistan. He was assigned to India Company, as a hospital 
corpsman in the Third Battalion, First Marine Regiment, First Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force.

On May 14, 3/1/2/ weeks into deployment, Petty Officer Wood sustained 
wounds when an improvised explosive device detonated during foot patrol 
in the Helmand Province.

I know his father, family and friends are devastated by this loss, 
but they should be proud of the great man Zarian Wood had become and 
that he died a hero while serving his country.

His loss will be felt by all of Houston, our state, and our nation, 
and I ask that you remember the family in your thoughts and prayers.

I would like to submit for the record this article on Officer Wood 
that appeared in the Houston Chronicle on May 18.








 [From the Houston Chronicle, May 18, 2010]







Sailor Served as ''Doc,'' Volunteered for Combat














 (By Lindsay Wise)




 Volunteer: Petty Officer Zarian Wood died Sunday of wounds 


 suffered in Afghanistan.



 Before he deployed to Afghanistan last month, Zarian Wood 


 visited his father and brother for a week at their home in 


 south Houston. The three men played video games, dined on 


 steak and shrimp and lounged on camping chairs in the 


 driveway. It was like a mini family reunion, recalled his 


 father, Daniel Wood.



 ''Just before he left, he told me, 'Dad, take care of 


 yourself and everything, and I'll be back,' '' he said.



 The 29-year-old Navy petty officer third class from Houston 


 died Sunday of wounds inflicted by a bomb blast during a foot 


 patrol in Helmand Province. He had only been in Afghanistan 


 about 3/1/2/ weeks.



 ''He was a good honest Christian man,'' said his father, a 


 63-year-old Vietnam veteran. ''He thought he went over there 


 to help children and help the country better itself, and 


 wham.''



 The father took a shaking breath, still stunned by the 


 news.



 ''Ah well, he's with the good Lord, you know,'' he said.



 Nicknamed ''Z,'' Zarian graduated in 1999 from South 


 Houston High School, where he'd competed on the wrestling 


 team.















Youth pastor, tutor




 He worked as a youth pastor and tutor for troubled kids on 


 Houston's northeast side and a merchandiser for Coca-Cola 


 before enlisting in 2006. His decision to undergo rigorous 


 training to become a hospital corpsman was very much in 


 character for him, his relatives say.



 ''He was a very giving young man and my mother taught all 


 of us that when you have nothing to give you have yourself to 


 give,'' said his sister, Teresa Robertson.



 Zarian deployed to Iraq from 2007-2008. His relatives said 


 he volunteered for his second combat tour, this time a seven-


 month stint in Afghanistan, where he served as ''Doc'' on the 


 front lines alongside Marine infantrymen from Camp Pendleton, 


 Calif. He was assigned to India Company, 3rd Battalion, 1st 


 Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary 


 Force.



 ''He was taking care of other folks,'' his father said. 


 ''He was doing what he wanted to do, and he was doing it for 


 his beliefs. He didn't want younger men to have to see and do 


 what he'd seen and done over there.''



 Zarian was the third Texan and third member of this Marine 


 battalion to be killed in Afghanistan recently. Cpl. Jeffrey 


 Johnson, 21, of Tomball was also killed May 11 by an 


 improvised explosive device while on a foot patrol. Sgt. 


 Kenneth B. May Jr., 26, of Kilgore, also died in that attack. 


 Johnson and May served in Weapons Company.



 The close-knit Wood family gathered on Tuesday to make 


 funeral arrangements and remember the fallen corpsman.



 ''He had a good heart, very outgoing, worked out at the gym 


 every day,'' said his older brother, Zachary Wood. ''He cared 


 about his looks.''



 ''He was very meticulous about that,'' his father said with 


 a laugh. ''He was a handsome man.''














 Wanted to be a dentist




 He was an honest man, too, even to the point of being 


 blunt, his brother said.



 ''Yeah, he'd tell you in a flat minute if you were wrong,'' 


 his father said. ''Then again, he'd stand up for you in a 


 flat minute if you were right.''



 He said his son dreamed of going back to school someday.



 ''He wanted to study radiology and then after he got that 


 degree, he was going to try to become a dentist,'' he said.



 ''He was all about living life, living life to the 


 fullest,'' his brother said.



 Zarian was preceded in death by his mother, Nellie Sue 


 Wood. He is survived by his father, Daniel Wood, and siblings 


 Zachary Wood, Krista Hamilton, Teresa Robertson, Victor 


 Robertson and Micah Dixon. Funeral arrangements are pending.
