---
---

# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `b38a981a3aa78ee56e554d77d063254f`
`Mr. KYL — 13 July 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I rise to speak for a while on the pending 
business before the Senate this past week and next week, which is the 
Defense authorization bill.

Now, constituents, people who have been watching the proceedings of 
the Senate for the last week, might be a little confused because if 
they know a little bit about how the Senate has historically done its 
business, they know the Defense authorization bill is the bill we adopt 
each year to set the policies and the spending priorities for the 
Defense Department to ensure our national security will remain strong 
for the next year.

However, this year, instead of talking about the acquisition of 
equipment we need, the new aegis cruisers we are going to be sending 
around the world--deploying to ensure we have a missile defense that is 
not only on land but on the seas--instead of talking about the space 
test bed--a research project that enables us, among other things, to 
find out how to deal with antisatellite weapons that the Chinese, for 
example, might use to destroy our satellites--or instead of talking 
about the need to increase the number of our military--primarily, our 
soldiers and marines--by about 90,000, so we have a more robust 
military to have boots on the ground anywhere in the world--instead of 
debating these various issues about our military posture, we have spent 
almost the entire week focused on what, the argument about the Iraq 
war.

Now, it is perfectly appropriate to debate issues relative to the war 
against terrorists. Certainly, the main battlefield in that war against 
terrorists today is Iraq. But it seems to me our focus is a little off 
when, instead of looking at the things we could do to make the United 
States more secure--by focusing on this Defense authorization bill and 
the specific elements of it--we are, instead, focusing on arguments 
about how quickly to withdraw from Iraq.

We have in place a new strategy in Iraq. At the end of last year, 
after the election, when Secretary Rumsfeld left his position as 
Secretary of Defense, the President said: All right, I believe we have 
not had a successful strategy, and we are going to have a new strategy.

That strategy was announced in January, sometimes called the surge. 
But what it involved was a combination of involving Iraqis more in the 
defense and securing of their country and the application of a very 
focused U.S. force of increased strength in specific areas of the 
country, not just to take those areas but to hold them once they were 
taken.

In the past, we would move into an area, we would clear it of the 
enemy, and then, after a few days, we would leave. What happened? The 
enemy would filter right back into the same areas, sometimes 
establishing an even stronger presence than they had before.

That, obviously, did not work, and the President realized it. 
Everybody in the country said: The election results show you need to 
have a new strategy. So the President, working with the Iraqis, working 
with General Petraeus--David Petraeus was confirmed unanimously by the 
Senate to go over and develop and execute a new strategy. Working with 
them, the President devised this new strategy of taking and holding the 
key areas of Iraq so peace and stability could be brought to that war-
torn country. The opportunity for the Government then to grab hold of 
the situation and do the things it needs to do would be given full 
effect.

That strategy counted on five new brigades of U.S. forces, consisting 
of over 25,000 on-the-ground servicemen, going in to join with about 
twice as many Iraqi Army and police units to effectuate this strategy 
of clearing and holding and maintaining control that I mentioned 
before.

That strategy, finally, about 2 weeks ago, has been put in full 
force, with the arrival of the last of the five brigades. They have 
gone into both Anbar Province, which is almost a third of the country 
of Iraq, largely controlled by--it is called a Sunni area, and largely 
controlled by tribal leaders--and into Baghdad, which is, obviously, 
the primary population center of the country, where a lot of the 
previous Shiite and Sunni conflict was occurring.

What have we seen in the debate over the Defense authorization bill? 
We have seen attempt after attempt after attempt from the other side of 
the aisle to declare the war lost, the strategy a failure, and, 
therefore, a commitment by the Senate to direct the President to begin 
bringing the troops home.

Next Tuesday--I believe it is Tuesday--we will actually vote on an


amendment that has as its specific directive a mandate that we begin 
bringing the troops home within a very specific time--I believe it is 
120 days now--and that withdrawal be complete within roughly a year--
again, I have forgotten the exact date--clearly, predicated on the 
notion that we have either lost or cannot win, that there is no point 
in allowing this new strategy to play out to see whether it can 
succeed, and to tell the entire world we are leaving Iraq.

Now, they put a little pink ribbon around it and said: Oh, we will 
leave some forces over the horizon so we can ride to the rescue if 
anything bad happens--as if there is not a clear common understanding 
that a lot bad will, of course, happen or the need to maintain some 
presence to help train Iraqi troops.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record an article by 
Stephen Biddle dated July 11 that was carried in the Washington Post.