---
---

# STAFF SERGEANT RICHWELL ARZADON DORIA--A TRUE HERO
## `b397e0d2e60b770d820e54372f48470b`
`Mr. FILNER — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Madam Speaker, United States Army Staff Sergeant Richwell 
Arzadon Doria


was killed by small-arms fire during the battle with the insurgents in 
Iraq on November 7, 2006.

He was born on December 6, 1980 in Dagupan City, Philippines. He 
immigrated to the United States of America in 1991 and graduated from 
Samuel Morse High School in San Diego, California in 2000. He enlisted 
in the United States Army and completed the Basic and Advanced 
Individual Training at Fort Benning, Georgia in 2001. He was 
naturalized as an American citizen in 2004.

Staff Sergeant Doria was assigned to the 25th Infantry Division at 
Schofield Barracks in Hawaii. He reported to the 2nd Battalion, 35th 
Infantry Regiment and was assigned to Alpha Company. He participated in 
training exercises at the National Training Center, Pohakuloa Training 
Area, and Operation North Wind in Japan. In 2004, he deployed with the 
Cacti Battalion in support of the Operation Enduring Freedom V in 
Afghanistan and also served with the Cacti Battalion in Operation Iraqi 
Freedom V. While in Alpha Company, he served as a rifleman, M203 
gunner, machine gun operator, team leader, and as a squad leader.

SSG Doria was posthumously awarded the Army Commendation Medal with 
''V'' device for valor. On November 1, 2006, his action saved the lives 
of his fellow soldiers following an insurgents attack. He was also 
posthumously awarded the Bronze Star, the fourth highest U.S. military 
award for gallantry in action and the Purple Heart for his courageous 
actions on November 7, 2006, when he made the ultimate sacrifice while 
covering for his fellow soldiers during an air assault and rescue 
mission in Iraq.

He is survived by his wife, Jasmine; daughter, Jada; parents, Fred 
and Rose; sister, Rowena; aunts, Zenaida and Minda, and grandfather/
adopted father, Benito Doria. His last wish to be buried at the Eternal 
Gardens Memorial Park in Dagupan City, Philippines was fulfilled, 
complete with full military honors, 21-gun salute, and the American 
flag was presented to the grieving Doria family by BG Simeon G. 
Trombitas, who is the Commander of the U.S. Army's Special Operations 
Command in South Korea.

U.S. Army SSG Richwell Arzadon Doria is a true hero and will forever 
remain in our hearts and memories for his bravery, dedication to duty, 
and service to the United States of America.
