---
---

# CHARLIE ALLEBACH, JR.
## `b3a3ee8ccfa4d2d585e4113f34ee844d`
`Mr. DENT — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. DENT. Mr. Speaker, I come here today not to speak about the great 
weighty issues of the day, whether it be Iraq or the budget process and 
procedures of the House, homeland security or any number of issues. No, 
Mr. Speaker, I come here today to talk about the career of a wonderful 
individual. You know, it was Tip O'Neill who once said that all 
politics is local, and I rise today to honor the career of one of our 
Nation's great local civic leaders, civic officials, Charlie Allebach, 
Jr.

Charlie has been serving the people of the Borough of Souderton, 
Pennsylvania, for almost 43 years. Let me say that again. That is for 
43 years, he has served the people of Souderton, Pennsylvania. He first 
became a borough councilman in 1964--by the way, I was 4 years old at 
that time--he was appointed mayor in 1970, and he has been mayor ever 
since. But I just want you to know, too, that he has just announced his 
retirement.

Charlie has presided over the steady growth of a wonderful community, 
Souderton, Pennsylvania. If you don't know anything about Souderton, it 
is in the Indian Valley of Pennsylvania, Montgomery County. It has got 
a great tradition. The Mennonites have had an enormous influence on 
that area over the years, have deeply influenced the culture and 
tradition. There is a great sense of family and faith in that area. 
Souderton is an extraordinary community.

Charlie, also, I want you to know, has performed more than 2,400 
marriage ceremonies, lent his time to local service organizations and 
has been devoted to the borough in every way imaginable.

On behalf of the people of the 15th Congressional District, I wish 
him the best during his retirement. We would like to keep him around in 
public office longer, but I understand that 40 years is a long time. We 
wish him the best in this richly deserved retirement.

I also ask that a copy of my remarks today be included in the 
Congressional Record so that Charlie Allebach, Jr.'s career as the 
mayor of Souderton can be memorialized within the annals of Congress 
for all time and to all the people in the Indian Valley in Souderton, I 
know that they are perhaps watching today the proceedings of the House 
and I know they have such a deep affection for this man. We don't spend 
enough time in our lives as Members of Congress thanking and 
celebrating people who do things right, who enter public service 
because they believe in advancing the best interests of their 
community. They are not doing it for themselves. That is what Charlie 
Allebach is all about.



So to Charlie, we say once again, thank you for a job well done. We 
hope to see you around. We know we will, but just want you to know that 
your contributions to all of us, to our community, are deeply 
appreciated and will not be forgotten.

Mr. Speaker, Tip O'Neill once said that all politics is local, and I 
rise today to honor the career of one our nation's great local civic 
officials, Charlie Allebach, Jr.

Charlie has been serving the people of the Borough of Souderton, 
Pennsylvania, for almost 43--that's 43--years. He first became a 
borough councilman in 1964, and he was appointed mayor in 1970. He has 
been the mayor ever since, but he has just announced his retirement.

Charlie has presided over the steady growth of a wonderful community. 
He has also performed more than 2,400 marriage ceremonies, lent his 
time to local service organizations, and has been devoted to the 
Borough in every way.

On behalf of the people of the 15th Congressional District, I wish 
him the best during his retirement, and I ask that a copy of these 
remarks be included in the Congressional Record so that Charlie 
Allebach, Jr.'s career as the mayor of Souderton, Pennsylvania, can be 
memorialized within the annals of Congress for all time.

Thank you, Charlie, for a job well done.
