---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE OF PRIVATE KELLY YOUNGBLOOD, U.S. ARMY, OF MESA,  ARIZONA
## `b3a992ef6b3c6112d8e150630a33ebaa`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 12 March 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the sacrifice of 
Private Kelly


Youngblood of Mesa, Arizona, who was killed on February 18, 2007 after 
being shot by a sniper in Ramadi, Iraq. Kelly risked everything in a 
fight to bring democracy to people halfway around the world.

Kelly represented the best that the United States of America has to 
offer. After graduating from McClintock High School in Tempe, Arizona, 
Kelly set his sights on military service. While only 19 years old, he 
was aware of all of the potential dangers associated with his service. 
Yet, despite his young age, a sense of duty called him to enlist. It 
had been Kelly's lifelong dream to serve his country and shortly after 
his 18th birthday he achieved his dream by enlisting in the Army. 
Following basic training Kelly was sent to Iraq as a member of the 3rd 
Battalion, 69th Armor Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry 
Division. He left behind his mother Kristen and sister Melaney of Mesa, 
Arizona, his grandparents, Charley and Jean Herrold of Westville, 
Indiana and many friends around the country. I stand here today to 
express my gratitude to Kelly and his loved ones for their sacrifice.

Today, I join Kelly's family and friends in mourning his death. While 
we struggle to come to terms with our sorrow over this loss, we can 
take pride in his example and joy in our memory of his life. Kelly 
served bravely as a soldier working to bring freedom to the people of 
Iraq. His courage and strength of character will provide an example for 
future generations and his memory will continue to bring comfort to his 
loved ones in their time of grief.

Kelly was known as a loving and kind young man with an excellent 
sense of humor. His grandmother told the local newspaper, ''That kid 
was so much fun. He made jokes out of everything. He's going to be 
sorely missed.'' Today and always Kelly will be remembered by family 
members, friends, and fellow Hoosiers as a true American hero. We honor 
the life he laid down in service to his country.

As I search for words to do justice in honoring Kelly's sacrifice, I 
am reminded of a speech by General Douglas MacArthur to a graduating 
class at West Point. ''The soldier above all other people prays for 
peace, for he must suffer and bear the deepest wounds and scars of 
war.'' Kelly's grandparents remember his last Christmas, when he 
worshiped at Westville United Methodist Church. As a soldier about to 
enter combat we can be assured that Kelly prayed for peace in Iraq, for 
his fellow soldiers and for his country he left behind. We too will 
continue this prayer in Kelly's memory and will continue his fight to 
bring peace around the world.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Kelly Youngblood into the 
official record of the United States House of Representatives for his 
service to this country and for his sacrifice in the name of freedom, 
democracy and peace. When we think of this cause in which we are 
engaged and the pain that the loss of our heroes brings, I hope that 
the memory of Kelly and others like him will bring some solace in our 
grief and some hope for our future.

May God grant peace to those who mourn and strength to those who 
continue to fight and may God be with all of you, as I know he is with 
Kelly.
