# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL
## `b3ac5f5d7dc59a024fd18489c870be2f`
`Mr. THUNE — 12 April 2007`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, last month I came to the Senate floor to 
express my doubts about the emergency supplemental spending bill put 
forth by the Democratic leadership in the House and Senate.

The supplemental was, and still is, a flawed bill that will do little 
to advance the cause of either liberty or victory in Iraq. It is a 
poorly crafted bill that includes language directing the President to 
begin a phased withdrawal of American troops, essentially tying the 
hands of the Commander in Chief, and signaling to our enemies that this 
is the day on which we will wave the white flag and surrender.

Mr. President, the Democrats believe the war in Iraq is a civil war 
between Sunni and Shia, and that America has no place in their war. I 
see the war in Iraq as a war between Islamic fascists and everyone 
else.

Contrary to the belief of many of my Democratic colleagues, we are in 
the middle of that war, be it in Baghdad, New York, Pennsylvania, Bali, 
London, or Madrid. What my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
fail to realize is that diplomacy and the exertion of military force 
are not mutually exclusive of one another. You can and must have both, 
and they must be effective.

But it is naive to think that you can have diplomacy in a vacuum, 
especially when you are dealing with a country such as Iran, a country 
bent on developing nuclear weapons, increasing its ballistic missile 
capability, and providing weapons and training to our enemies in Iraq.

However, this is all moot because the Democratic leadership on the 
war supplemental spending bill has been absent these last couple of 
weeks. Here we are, almost 3 weeks after the bill was passed in the 
Senate. There has been no conference of the bill. And the other body, 
the House of Representatives, has yet to appoint conferees. What are we 
waiting for? Why are we asking our men and women in uniform to wait?

Well, unfortunately, waiting is what our military is going to do. The 
Democratic leadership has thus far decided to purposefully send a bill 
to the White House that they know will be vetoed in order to set up a 
confrontation with the President to score political points.

I find it ironic that many of the Democrats who are so insistent on 
micromanaging the war and usurping the power of the President cannot 
even show up and show the requisite leadership to pass an emergency 
bill that funds our troops. Our troops deserve more from this Congress.

I hope my colleagues across the aisle will do what is right and get a 
bill passed that the President can sign into law. If you look at what 
the consequences of us not acting are, it has been very clear. 
Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said: This kind of disruption to key 
programs will have a genuinely adverse effect on the readiness of the 
Army and the quality of life for soldiers and their families.

The supplemental is necessary to pay for training and equipping our 
soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan. If the supplemental is not passed by 
April 15, the military will be forced to consider the following steps: 
Curtailing and suspending home station training for Reserve and Guard 
units; slowing the training of units slated to deploy next to Iraq and 
Afghanistan; cutting the funding for the upgrade or renovation of 
barracks and other facilities that support quality of life for troops 
and their families; stopping the repair of equipment necessary to 
support predeployment training; reducing the repair work being done at 
Army depots; delaying or curtailing the deployment of brigade combat 
teams to their training rotation; this, in turn, will cause additional 
units in theater to have their tours extended because other units are 
not ready to take their place; delaying formation of new brigade combat 
teams; implementation of a civilian hiring freeze; prohibiting the 
execution of new contracts and service orders, including service orders 
for training events and facilities; holding or canceling the order of 
repair parts to nondeployed units in the Army.


These are all things that can result simply because this Congress has 
not acted in a way that is consistent with what is in the best interest 
of our men and women in uniform who are serving their country in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. It is about the politics of whether we ought to be 
withdrawing. Of course, as I said, the legislation that has passed both 
the House and Senate, including time lines for withdrawal, which ties 
the hands of our Commander in Chief, ties the hands of our generals in 
the field, sends a very clear message to our troops that we don't 
believe in their mission, that we don't believe it is possible for them 
to attain victory. It sends a very clear message to our enemies that on 
this date certain, we are going to pull out. What does that say to 
them, other than all they to have do is to wait us out?

Irrespective of where you are on this particular war--I know it is 
divisive in the United States--when it comes to the fundamental 
question of making sure our troops have the resources they need to do 
the job we have asked them to do, to make sure we are supporting the 
important work they are doing and giving them the impression we believe 
they can win and that we want them to win, there is nothing more 
important in the Senate for us to be dealing with. I know there are a 
lot of important issues the Senate has to deal with. We have an 
Intelligence authorization bill we are deliberating. We had stem cell 
research in the last couple of days. We ought to be dealing with issues 
such as immigration and health care and energy, all issues that are 
important to the people.

I submit nothing is more important than making sure the men and women 
in uniform, serving our country in theaters of conflict, have the 
resources they need to do the job we have asked of them.

Meanwhile, while the House is out of session and has yet to appoint 
conferees so even our staffs in the House and Senate could get together 
and begin discussing the differences between the House and Senate bills 
to get a bill to send to the President, which the President can 
subsequently veto and send back here so we can have an override vote, 
which will fail--then we will be right back where we started--the 
troops don't have any funding. Hopefully, at that point, perhaps, the 
Democrats in the House and Senate will come to the realization that all 
these theatrics and shenanigans being played on the floor of the House 
and Senate are not doing anything but sending a message to our enemies 
that we are weakening in our resolve and not doing what we need to be 
doing, and that is funding our troops to make


sure they have the necessary training and equipment and ability to 
conduct and win this mission we have asked them to complete.

The ironic thing about it is, while all this is not going on here, 
the absence of activity in the Congress where we ought to be 
conferencing the supplemental bill so we can get the process moving 
forward and hopefully get a bill back from the President that will have 
been vetoed so we can send him another bill that has funding in it for 
our troops, while all this is not going on in Washington, the Speaker 
of the House of Representatives, while the House is out of session this 
week in recess, is traveling around the world conducting foreign 
policy. Where and since when is it the job of the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives to conduct foreign policy, going to other countries 
in the world, particularly countries with which we don't have a 
relationship, countries that harbor and sponsor terrorist activities, 
meeting with them to deliver messages from other countries around the 
world?

I know we have a President and Vice President, we have a State 
Department and a diplomatic corps, all of which are tasked with that 
important job. But the Speaker of the House of Representatives somehow 
decided she should be the courier of messages between Israel and Syria.

It should come as no surprise that the Israeli Prime Minister took 
issue with the Speaker of the House of Representatives conducting 
Israeli foreign policy as well, not to mention the fact that she didn't 
have the authority to do it, nor was the message she delivered the 
correct message. It seems to me what we ought to be focused on as a 
Congress is not running around the world meeting with leaders who are 
aiding and abetting the very people our men and women in uniform are 
fighting against in Iraq but, rather, being in Washington, dealing with 
the important issue of funding our men and women in uniform who are 
involved in a very important mission for the future of our country. I 
know this is an issue on which this country has great debate. I know 
people in my State, as in many States, are weary of the conflict in 
Iraq.

We have in place a new strategy that includes additional troops, a 
change in rules of engagement, new conditions and benchmarks for the 
Iraqi Government, for the Iraqi military. I want to see it work. I want 
to see our troops succeed. I believe a majority of the people want to 
see our mission in Iraq succeed, knowing full well the consequences of 
failure will be detrimental and disastrous to the United States and to 
our security in the future. Yet here we are. The Senate is here. We 
can't conduct a conference because the House of Representatives is not 
in session, nor did they, before they departed for a 2-week recess, 
appoint conferees to the supplemental appropriations bill that would 
enable us to go about this important work.