---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 301,  PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `b3b7caec121af2f465c00c83d3684799`
`Mr. POLIS — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the rule and in 
opposition to the supplemental funding to escalate the war in 
Afghanistan.

This Nation does face a very real terrorist threat, but the terrorist 
threat is a stateless menace, a menace that is not rooted in any one 
location or has any dominion in one particular area and is, in fact, 
mobile. In fact, the two countries that our Nation continues to occupy, 
namely, Iraq and Afghanistan are not significant bases of operation for 
al Qaeda.

This discussion should absolutely include Pakistan and the border 
area, particularly between Afghanistan and Pakistan. We have in 
Pakistan a better partner than we have in Afghanistan with regard to 
the war on terror. It is not an ideal partner, but it is a better 
partner than we have found, and I hope our Nation continues to work 
with the good people of Pakistan and the good forces within the 
Government of Pakistan to help keep the American people safe and the 
Pakistani people safe.

We need to continue our efforts to battle terrorists wherever they 
are. How to focus on this stateless menace? We need to use intelligence 
gathering, targeted special operations, and a refocused emphasis on 
homeland security. All these are very costly and expensive and are 
ongoing and an indefinite occupation of Afghanistan reduces our ability 
to do the things we need to do to keep the American people safe.

That's why I have consistently opposed the escalation of troops in 
Afghanistan and will continue to do so today by voting against the 
supplemental funding. There is a real threat, but the answer is not to 
continue to indefinitely occupy countries where we only breed more 
sympathy with those who would do us harm. We must bring the war in 
Afghanistan to a responsible end. That's why I will vote against the 
war supplemental, and I call upon my colleagues to join me in helping 
to protect Americans with a new foreign policy in the region.