---
---

# HONORING OPERATION HELMET
## `b3d3a0c6641825f3baf01ab9d82467e2`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, it is with 
great honor and personal gratitude that I recognize the remarkable work 
of Mike and Marie Farley who, along with Rodney Van Pelt and other 
members of the Quakertown Moose Lodge No. 1622, took bold initiative to 
provide our soldiers with life-saving equipment.

Marie Farley of Nockamixon, Pennsylvania was shocked to learn that 
antiquated gear was being issued to U.S. soldiers--including to her 23-
year-old son Michael, a Marine stationed in Anbar Province, Iraq. She 
learned that with an upgrade kit, her son's helmet could do more to 
protect him. If Michael was knocked down by an explosion, the shock-
absorbing pad and new strap system could save his life. But Mrs. Farley 
and her husband Mike discovered that if they wanted their son and his 
unit to have this simple safety feature, they would have to raise the 
money themselves.



The Farleys were not alone in their desire to provide U.S. soldiers 
with proper equipment. A national initiative--Operation Helmet--was 
underway and the Farleys quickly sought to localize the effort. Mrs. 
Farley made up signs asking for donations and put one of those signs at 
the Quakertown Moose Lodge. That is where the project took off. After 
learning about the need for the protective pads, Rodney Van Pelt of the 
Moose Club joined the Farleys to aggressively pursue the goal of 
equipping Michael's entire unit with the upgrade. The Moose Club and 
the rest of the community rallied around the family and raised enough 
to take care of Michael's entire company, not just his unit.

As of today, the Farleys and the Quakertown Moose Club have raised 
$35,000, enough for almost 500 upgrade kits. The kits have been shipped 
out and came as early Christmas presents for soldiers overseas. This 
accomplishment is inspiring and is a telling example of true patriotism 
and respect.

Having led convoys in a Humvee without doors while serving with the 
82nd Airborne Division in Baghdad, I understand what it means to fight 
a war without proper equipment. So I speak from experience when I say 
that this kind of support from home is whole-heartedly appreciated and 
serves as a tremendous morale boost. But Madam Speaker, family members 
should not be forced to pay for their loved ones' military equipment. 
The Farleys were able to gather tremendous community support but 
despite their best efforts they couldn't supply all U.S. forces, and 
many families are paying out-of-pocket. This is unfair and I urge you 
all to support the Helmet Pad Reimbursement Act of 2007. I am proud to 
be an original cosponsor of this bill because at the very least, these 
families should have the opportunity to request a reimbursement.

This is an issue of critical importance to our troops and I commend 
all who have brought it to light. On behalf of the men and women with 
whom I served, Mr. and Mrs. Farley, Mr. Van Pelt, the Quakertown Moose 
Lodge and most importantly, Michael and all the soldiers who continue 
to risk their lives for this country, I urge Congress to support this 
bill.
