# IRAQ ASSESSMENT
## `b3d9db5064659eb645e8e3fcb94e5d51`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN â€” 29 January 2008`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. Speaker, as we begin to talk about our national 
security and our troops and the surge and the success of that and why 
our troops choose to defend this great Nation, I want to stop and just 
join Mr. Gingrey in congratulating his mother on her 90th birthday. 
Certainly, Helen Cecelia Gingrey sounds like the type of woman that 
truly takes a leadership role, first of all, in her family and role 
models that leadership and how to carry that out in how to encourage 
children to dream big dreams and have great adventures in their life 
and to desire that.

That is something you learn at a mother's knee. That is something you 
see role modeled by parents, and Mr. Speaker, that is something that we 
need to keep in mind as we are here on the floor of the House in this 
body, as we make decisions about how our Nation moves forward in this 
21st century.



We need to remember that there are future generations that are 
relying on us to be certain that this Nation stays secure. There are 
future generations that are looking to us that go every single day and 
say, what will my tomorrow be like? Is my community going to be secure? 
What is America going to look like when I am 20, when I'm 30, when I 
get ready to retire?

We would do well to be mindful of that every single day as we make 
decisions that affect America's families and realize, yes, indeed, 
those families are our greatest treasure. Those precious minds of those 
precious children are indeed what we are to be protecting and be 
certain that they have the ability to dream those big dreams.

So to Dr. Gingrey's mom, Helen Gingrey, happy birthday. We all 
congratulate you, and we are so pleased that we live in a free Nation 
and we can stand on the floor of this House and celebrate those 
birthdays and join your son in wishing you happy birthday and many, 
many more.

Mr. Speaker, I recently did return from a trip to Afghanistan and 
Iraq to visit with our troops. And tonight I want to spend some time 
talking about what has been going on in Iraq and the success that we 
have seen there, the success that our troops have brought to bear on 
Iraq and on the environment that is there.

Just about 3 weeks ago, we had the 1-year anniversary of the surge, 
and everyone had a lot to say about that surge and a lot to say about 
how successful they thought it would or would not be. I think, Mr. 
Speaker, it's very easy for us to be Monday morning quarterbacks or 
armchair quarterbacks and to always have our opinion of how we think 
these things are going to work out.

The 101st is in my district in Tennessee. We also have the National 
Guardsmen from our State that have been deployed, Reservists who have 
been deployed, and we would always say we need to be listening to the 
troops that are in the field and the commanders that are there on the 
ground.

We saw a change about a year ago. The change was in the form of the 
surge. The implementation of that surge was carried out by General 
David Petraeus. He was joined by Ambassador Crocker as they moved 
forward with the preparations and the implementation of that surge, and 
we have seen results.

Over the December and January period of time, we had the opportunity 
to visit, and I am pleased to be joined tonight by my colleague from 
Texas (Mr. Burgess) who has been on the ground in Iraq several times, I 
think six times he has been to visit our troops in Iraq. And he wanted 
to join me tonight for a few minutes and talk about what he saw and 
give a firsthand account of what he saw.

I'm so pleased that he has chosen to join us because one of the 
things our troops mentioned to us on our trip was, We are fighting 
every day. We are in a war. And we are winning significant battles 
every single day. And we want the American people to know we are 
fighting. We are giving it our all, and yes, indeed, we are winning 
every day.

Now, Mr. Speaker, I think it's important for us to realize that a lot 
of times, success comes in odd ways. Progress comes in unexpected ways. 
And it is not just on a trajectory where every day is better and better 
and better. We take a few steps forward, we take a few steps back. We 
take a few more steps forward, we take a little step back. But when you 
add it up, you are trending the right direction.

That is certainly what we have seen in the success of the surge. We 
have seen every major news outlet declare it a success. The American 
people know that it is a success. And our troops are to be commended 
for that success. Certainly, the President was right in making that 
commendation last night.

As I said a moment ago, Dr. Burgess from Texas who's been to Iraq six 
times wants to join us and share his impressions of what he saw on the 
ground in Iraq, and I yield to the gentleman from Texas.