---
---

# TMA, ABSTINENCE EDUCATION, AND QI PROGRAMS EXTENSION ACT OF 2007
## `b3dcf41de78f71e83a273670ce9ee9bd`
`Mr. DEAL of Georgia — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the bill 
before us which extends Transitional Medical Assistance and the Title V 
Abstinence Education programs, and the Qualified Individuals programs, 
more commonly referred to as QI-1 program. I am pleased that the 
Congress can work together toward extending the funding for these 
particular programs.

I support the reauthorization of Title V Abstinence Education 
program, a program that provides resources to


educate our Nation's youth about the benefits of an abstinent 
lifestyle. I'm sure many of my colleagues have heard, as I have, from 
the numerous programs within my State that rely on this Federal 
funding. They believe in the program, and they hope to continue 
providing abstinence educational opportunities to local teens.

The QI-1 program provides money to States to pay the Medicare part B 
premiums of low-income beneficiaries ineligible for Medicaid. Without 
this relief, the low-income beneficiaries enrolled in this program 
would have to start paying for their part B premiums, which have risen 
over the past few years due to overspending in Medicare.

I am supportive of extending this program in order that we may 
continue to provide assistance for our low-income seniors and 
beneficiaries as we've done in such a bipartisan manner each year for 
the past several years.

This bill also corrects a provision that was included in a bill for 
money for our troops in Iraq passed earlier this year. There is a 
provision in that bill that denies payment for any Medicaid 
prescription that isn't written on a Secretary-approved, tamper-
resistant drug pad. Since then, we've heard from doctors, nurses, 
pharmacists and State health officials across the Nation that the 
October 1 implementation deadline required by that bill is much too 
soon. I am pleased we are affording our Nation's health care providers 
the flexibility needed to properly implement this new requirement so as 
not to jeopardize access to care for our Medicaid beneficiaries.

In addition, this package includes $385 million in new funding for 
the Medicare Physician Assistance and Quality Initiative fund created 
by last year's tax relief bill. That fund provides bonus payments to 
physicians for reporting on quality measures this year, and includes 
over $1 billion set aside for bonus payments in 2008. I am pleased to 
see this fund extended into 2009 and beyond.

It is a bipartisan recognition that incentivizing physicians to 
provide quality, efficient and effective health care holds the promise 
of a better Medicare physician reimbursement system, one that reflects 
accountability for the type and volume of Medicare services. The 
Physician Assistance and Quality Initiative fund that we put in place 
last year takes an important first step in that direction, and I'm 
happy to see that the House Democrats agree with that position.

In closing, I would like to reiterate my support for the bill and 
encourage my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.