# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `b3e78e0593753364c9bc3347c5d6a946`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for 
time; so I will close.

Mr. Speaker, I think you know that as a result of your interpreting 
existing policy relative to the unanimous consent requests on three 
different occasions in an effort to get the original package here 
before the body so they could vote up or down on H.R. 4899, I know that 
I could speak for my own leadership, they certainly would agree to this 
unanimous consent request. It would appear the leadership on the other 
side, perhaps of the committee, I can't speak for the Speaker, of 
course, but apparently the other side does not want us to have that 
package before the body.



Mr. Speaker, it is critical for us to remind ourselves continually in 
the weeks and months ahead, the war on terror is very real. America has 
been challenged at home and continues to be challenged abroad. The men 
and women that our Commander in Chief have chosen to send to 
Afghanistan are in need for supplemental funding. To have us 
essentially water down those proposals by way of the amendments that 
have been before us is absolutely unbelievable to me. If the public 
could only know what the people's body is doing tonight to not just our 
people here at home but our people overseas as well, I believe they'd 
essentially make a decision that they ought to change the entire 
Congress.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.