---
---

# THE INTRODUCTION OF THE PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION  ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `b3eff61d9de4f308c02b76a3cce2966c`
`Mr. BERMAN — 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise this evening to talk about the 
Pakistan Enduring Assistance and Cooperation Enhancement Act--or PEACE 
Act--a bill I introduced today with a distinguished group of original 
cosponsors, including Mr. Kirk, Mr. Ackerman, Mr. Royce, Ms. Jackson-
Lee, Mr. Sherman, and Mr. Wexler. The fundamental purpose of this 
legislation is to strengthen the U.S. relationship with Pakistan--a 
country that is central to our national security and to-global 
stability,

The timing of this bill could not be more crucial. We stand at a 
pivotal moment in our relations with Pakistan and in our campaign to 
bring stability and security to Afghanistan. Several days ago, the 
Obama Administration unveiled its new strategy for those countries, the 
main focus of which is to enhance our ability to disrupt, dismantle, 
and defeat al Qaeda in its safe havens in Pakistan. The PEACE Act is 
written with that critical goal in mind. But it also reflects our deep 
appreciation of the fact that it is in our national interest to create 
a long-term strategic partnership with Pakistan; one that speaks to the 
needs of the average citizens of Pakistan--those who live in rural 
areas, without access to adequate education or healthcare, and who have 
suffered at the hands of a frequently dysfunctional and corrupt 
judicial system and police force.

By tripling U.S. assistance for democratic, economic and social 
development, our bill lays the foundation for a creating a stronger, 
more stable Pakistan. It places a particular emphasis on strengthening 
Pakistan's fragile democratic institutions--including the parliament 
and judicial system--enhancing economic development by increasing local 
capacity, and improving Pakistan's education system and vocational 
training.



To help ensure that American assistance is spent appropriately, our 
legislation requires increased auditing, monitoring and evaluation, and 
includes rigorous reporting requirements. U.S. taxpayers--and the 
Pakistani people--should know that our assistance is making a real 
difference, and not being squandered.

For many years, the U.S. relationship with Pakistan has been 
characterized by fits and starts. Now that Pakistan has returned to an 
elected civilian democracy, it is important to emphasize our long-term 
commitment to the Pakistani people. To achieve that goal, our bill 
establishes a Pakistan Freedom and Prosperity Fund, a permanent fund in 
the U.S. Treasury that serves as a conduit for all social and economic 
development assistance. At the same time, we must take a hard look at 
what we want from Pakistan. We clearly want them to be a partner and a 
friend. In that spirit, we also expect them to take action against 
those who threaten Pakistani and American security interests. Our bill 
clarifies these expectations.

Achieving stability in Pakistan, however, will require more than 
economic assistance--it will also require us to provide Pakistan the 
tools it needs to protect its people, secure its borders and augment 
its ongoing counterterrorism operations. To that end, our bill 
authorizes increased Foreign Military Financing (FMF), while requiring 
that the vast majority of such assistance be used for counterterrorism 
and counterinsurgency purposes. It also authorizes increased assistance 
for International Military Education and Training (IMET), which will 
enhance cooperation between the U.S. and Pakistani militaries.

Finally, our bill requires that military assistance may only be 
provided to Pakistan if the President determines that the Government of 
Pakistan is continuing to cooperate with the United States in 
preventing proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and has both 
demonstrated a sustained commitment to combating terrorist groups and 
has made progress towards that end.

Madam Speaker, we cannot succeed in defeating al Qaeda by ourselves. 
We need a robust, long-term relationship with our strategic partners to 
prevail against those who threaten our national security. The PEACE Act 
will help us establish just such a relationship with Pakistan.
