# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `b3f8c121e31551fb47ee9fd8a19fe484`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 19 June 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, because of the war in Iraq, more than 2 
million Iraqis have been internally displaced in their own country, and 
2 million other Iraqis are in neighboring countries throughout the 
region, primarily Jordan and Syria.

The humanitarian needs of the refugees and internally displaced 
Iraqis are immense. If their needs are not quickly and adequately met, 
these populations could become a fertile recruiting ground for 
terrorists.

Iraqi refugees are also a significant financial burden on countries 
in the region. As the Iraq Study Group concluded, if the refugee crisis 
''is not addressed, Iraq and the region could be further 
destabilized.''

Many Iraqis who have worked in critical positions in direct support 
of the U.S. Government in Iraq have been killed or injured in reprisals 
for their support of our effort. Many more Iraqis associated with the 
United States have fled their country in fear of being killed or 
injured.

Clearly, we cannot resettle all of Iraq's refugees in the United 
States, but we have a fundamental obligation to help the vast number of 
Iraqis displaced in Iraq and throughout the region by the war and the 
associated chaos, especially those who have supported America's efforts 
in Iraq.

In April 2007, Assistant Secretary of State Ellen Sauerbray said the 
United States ''could resettle up to 25,000 Iraqi refugees this year.'' 
In May 2007, Under Secretary Paula Dobriansky said, ''We are committed 
to honoring our moral debt to those Iraqis who have provided assistance 
to the United States military and embassy.'' On June 8, Secretary Rice 
said ''the people that I'm most worried about in the near term are the 
people who've worked with us who might be subject to recrimination and 
reprisal. And we're trying to step up our efforts on their behalf.''

It is essential for the United States to develop a comprehensive and 
effective approach to meet the rapidly growing needs of Iraq's refugees 
and internally displaced persons, especially those who are associated 
with the United States.

The legislation I am introducing today with Senators Smith, Biden, 
Hagel, Leahy, Levin, and Lieberman seeks to accomplish these goals.

First, the legislation would create a special category of applicants 
for refugee status in Iraq. Those eligible for this program, a P-2 
category for refugees of special humanitarian concern, would be the 
Iraqis most closely associated with the United States. Iraqis who 
qualify would be those, 1. who have been employed by or worked directly 
with the U.S. Government in Iraq; or, 2. who were employed in Iraq by a 
media or nongovernmental organization based in the United States or by 
an organization or entity that has received a grant from, or entered 
into a cooperative agreement or contract with, the U.S. Government; or, 
3. who are spouses, children, sons, daughters, siblings and parents of 
those who worked for or with us; or, 4. who are members of religious or 
minority communities and have close family members in the U.S.

Those eligible would not have to be referred to our Government by the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees or a U.S. Embassy. All 
applicants, however, would need to demonstrate a well-founded fear of 
persecution. Applicants would be required to go through recently 
approved extensive security screening.

P-2 visas for these refugees would come out of the overall authorized 
admissions number for the refugee program, currently established at 
70,000. That figure is determined every year by the President in close 
consultation with the Congress.

In addition to the new P-2 category of refugee applications, the 
legislation would expand the current U.S. Government program which 
provides special immigrant visas only to Iraqi and Afghan translators 
and interpreters. Those eligible for the expanded special immigrant 
visa program are Iraqis who have been employed by or worked directly 
with the United States for 1 year in the aggregate since 2003, and need 
not have served as a translator or interpreter for the military or 
Department of State.

Applicants for SIV visas would not need to demonstrate a well-founded 
fear of persecution, but they would need to meet security requirements, 
demonstrate that they provided faithful service to our Government, and 
provide a recommendation or evaluation. The Secretary of State would be 
required to provide applicants with protection or immediate removal 
from Iraq if they are in immediate danger. Five thousand of these visas 
would be available yearly for 5 years.

Importantly, our legislation requires the Secretary of State to 
establish a program for processing P-2 refugees and SIV applicants in 
Iraq and in countries in the region. The Secretary would be required to 
report to the Congress within 60 days on plans to establish this 
program. Currently, there is no mechanism for applying for refugee 
status in Iraq. Those fleeing persecution and seeking refugee status 
must find their way to Jordan or Syria, locate an official from the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and then be referred to 
the U.S. Government by the United Nations. Because of the growing 
violence and risk for those associated with the United States, we need 
to find a way to address this problem for Iraqis inside Iraq. Our bill 
does not eliminate the referral system through the United Nations, or 
any other existing system, but it does create an essential mechanism 
for direct applications in country.

To oversee the implementation of this new program, the Secretary of 
State would be required to establish in the Embassy in Baghdad a 
Minister Counselor for Refugees and Internally Displaced Persons. This 
senior official would be responsible for overseeing the in-country 
processing of P-2 refugee and special immigrant visa applicants, and 
would have authority to refer them directly to the U.S. refugee 
resettlement program.


A parallel position would be created in the American embassies in 
Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria to oversee the application process of 
P-2 refugees of special humanitarian concern. SIV applicants would work 
through regular consular channels in embassies in those countries.

Recognizing that the United States can only resettle a small number 
of the most vulnerable refugees within our borders, the Secretary of 
State would be required to consult with other countries about 
resettlement of refugee populations, develop mechanisms in countries 
with significant populations of displaced Iraqis to ensure the 
refugees' well-being and safety, and provide assistance to the 
countries in doing so.

In addition, the legislation would allow Iraqis denied asylum after 
March 2003 based on changed conditions to file a new petition with an 
immigration judge to reopen their cases. Those denied asylum, for 
example, on the grounds that Saddam Hussein is no longer in power and 
the United States is committed to building democracy in Iraq should be 
permitted to make their case again before a judge.

After 90 days, and annually thereafter, the President would be 
required to submit an unclassified report to


Congress with a classified annex if necessary, assessing the financial, 
security, personnel, considerations and resources necessary to 
establish the programs required in the act. After 90 days, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security would be required to submit a report to 
Congress outlining plans to expedite processing of Iraqi refugees, 
including a temporary expansion of the Refugee Corps, and plans to 
enhance existing systems for conducting background and security checks 
for Iraqis applying through the program.

More than 5 years ago, Arthur Helton, perhaps this country's 
staunchest advocate for the rights of refugees wrote, ''Refugees matter 
. . . for a wide variety of reasons . . . Refugees are a product of 
humanity's worst instincts--the willingness of some persons to oppress 
others--as well as some of its best instincts--the willingness of many 
to assist and protect the helpless . . . In personal terms, we care 
about refugees because of the seed of fear that lurks in all of us that 
can be stated so simply: it could be me.''

A year later, Arthur Helton gave his life for his beliefs. He was 
killed in Baghdad in 2003 while meeting with U.N. Special Envoy Sergio 
Vieira de Mello when a bomb destroyed the U.N. headquarters in Iraq.

But his words resonate today, especially when we consider the very 
human cost of the war in Iraq, and its tragic effect on the millions of 
Iraqis, men, women, and children, who have fled their homes and their 
country to escape the violence of a nation at war with itself.

America has a special obligation to keep faith with the Iraqis who 
now have a bulls-eye on their back because of their association with 
our Government.

At a hearing in the Senate Judiciary Committee in January, chilling 
testimony was presented about the dangers Iraqis face because of their 
association with America.

One Iraqi, Sami, was a translator for U.S. and Coalition forces and 
who now lives in the United States. He said, ''I too, have been 
targeted for my death. My name was listed on the doors of several 
mosques calling for my death. Supposed friends of mine saw my name on 
the list and turned on me because they believed I was traitor . . . In 
June 2006, I learned that I had been granted special status. As a 
result, today I live free from the fear of persecution and threats to 
my life that I faced on a daily basis in Iraq. My hope is that all 
brave Iraqis who worked and braved so much will have the same chance as 
I have had to live in freedom.''


Another Iraqi, John, worked as a water service man for U.S. troops. 
He said, ''My wife, my six children and myself fled Iraq after 
terrorist groups targeted me and my family because I aided the 
Americans by supplying water to their service camps.''

Ken Bacon, president of Refugees International, summed it up well 
when he said, ''There is a large group of Iraqis who have risked their 
lives to support the United States . . . people are sacrificing their 
lives to help the United States.''

The legislation has been endorsed by organizations including Refugees 
International, Refugee Council USA which encompasses Amnesty 
International USA, Arab-American and Chaldean Council, Chaldean 
Federation of America, Church World Service/Immigration and Refugee 
Program, Episcopal Migration Ministries, Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, 
Human Rights First, International Rescue Committee, Jesuit Refugee 
Service/USA, Jubilee Campaign USA, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee 
Services, Migration & Refugee Services/United States Conference of 
Catholic Bishops, Southeast Asia Resource Action Center, U.S. Committee 
for Refugees and Immigrants, Women's Commission for Refugee Women and 
Children, and WorId Relief, the International Rescue Committee, and the 
PEN American center.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation in order to keep the 
faith with those many brave Iraqis whose lives are in jeopardy because 
of their association with our forces in Iraq.

I ask unanimous consent that the letters of suport be printed in the 
Record.