# IRAN COUNTER-PROLIFERATION ACT OF 2007
## `b3f8c7c098d4e71cfa8390454216bb03`
`Mr. HERGER — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. HERGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1400, as amended 
to strengthen its goals and effect.

The Iranian regime supports terrorism. Iran's President has called 
for Israel to be, and I quote, ''wiped off the map.'' Iranian special 
forces are fighting a ''proxy war'' against U.S. troops in Iraq and are 
training Iraqi Shiite extremists. Iran's uranium enrichment continues 
to fly in the face of several United Nations resolutions, and the 
International Atomic Energy Agency, IAEA, reports that Iran could 
develop nuclear weapons in as few as 3 years.

A multilateral strategy will most effectively block Iran's dangerous 
ambitions. The U.N., in particular, must adopt additional, stronger 
measures to stop this hostile regime dead in its tracks. I am also very 
encouraged by the recent statements of French President Sarkozy calling 
on France and the rest of Europe to adopt ''international'' and 
''multilateral'' economic sanctions against Iran, in coordination with 
U.S. efforts.

As I have said on this floor before, I question the effectiveness of 
unilateral sanctions because they often disturb the very 
multilateralism that we currently see taking shape against Iran. 
Careful drafting, however, can alleviate the disruption, and the Ways & 
Means Committee strengthened H.R. 1400 by inserting provisions that 
will preserve this growing international coalition.

More specifically, H.R. 1400 maintains the President's discretion 
under current law not to impose import restrictions, if refraining 
would best serve the foreign policy purpose. To that end, Section 307 
of this bill clarifies that the full ''authorities'' of IEEPA are 
implicated in Section 6(6) of the Iran Sanctions Act, not just the 
authority to impose import restrictions. A parallel rule of 
construction is included in Section 201.

In addition, my Committee was careful to clarify in Section 202 that 
the bill's import restrictions apply only to the current regulation, so 
the President retains needed flexibility. Finally, Section 406 of the 
bill as introduced and reported was stripped and replaced with a new 
funding source.

For these reasons, I urge support of H.R. 1400, as amended.