---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b4073e449585f56a7daf261d11839d35`
`Mr. KIRK — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. KIRK. I thank the distinguished chairman.

Our uniformed men and women have given great service to the Nation by 
ending a tyrant's rein and fostering elections in a region that only 
knew dictatorship. In my judgment now, the time for decisive military 
action led by American and British forces is ending and the Iraqi stage 
should be delivered to new political leaders to work out their own 
differences. I will support the House resolution that recommends 
against the troop surge because the United States should increase the 
responsibilities of the elected Iraqi government to solve its own 
problems while reducing the number of American combat troops sent 
overseas.

I did not come to this conclusion lightly. The long-term security of 
our country depends on the United States not being defeated in the 
Middle East. To prevent the collapse of democracy, tolerance and 
supporters in our region, we need a policy that relies on America's key 
strengths and builds additional support among our citizens and allies.

Looking back on the last years, our troops in Iraq achieved two major 
objectives: First, they ended the dictatorship of Saddam Hussein, a 
leader that


invaded two separate United Nations member countries and ordered the 
murder of several hundred thousand Iraqis. Second, they backed the 
United Nations' sponsorship of Iraq's three national elections that 
approved a new constitution and government.



Iraq is no longer a military threat to her neighbors or minorities, 
especially her Kurdish families, who no longer fear that a third 
genocide campaign will be launched by their very own government. These 
are major achievements, worthy of the bravery and sacrifice of 
Americans in uniform.

But Iraq now faces new challenges that should be solved by Iraqis, 
not the U.S. military. Iraq's government, led by a Kurdish president 
and a Shia prime minister, faces a daunting enemy composed of people 
that would restore the old dictatorship, or worse. But this struggle is 
primarily political, not military. Foreign troops, be they American or 
British or otherwise, are not well-suited to advance the elected 
government's writ.

In the coming months we should build a longer term plan for the 
United States and our allies in the Middle East. Man for man, Iraqi 
combat troops operating under the authority of their own elected 
government are better suited for this mission than Americans on the 
front lines of Iraq.

The U.S. military can offer unique advantages to the Iraqi government 
in our ability to provide the Iraqi army and police with logistics, 
communications, training and intelligence, in a way that only Americans 
can provide. Over the coming months, Americans should be focused on 
these missions, making sure that our Iraqi allies are more effective in 
extending the authority of their government. By winding down the combat 
duties of Americans, we will dramatically lower the risk to our men and 
women stationed overseas while providing a decisive advantage to the 
elected government of Iraq. This is how to win the battle and secure a 
lasting government for the Iraqi people.

Our plan should be strengthened by a diplomatic initiative among 
Iraq's neighbors and the World Bank to support the elected government 
in its plans for reconstruction. To date, the World Bank has been 
''absent without leave'' in delivering help to this founding member of 
the International Bank For Reconstruction and Development.

Our efforts, based on the key American advantages, while reducing the 
number of American combat troops, will improve the prospects for peace 
and build support for our goals here and among our allies.

Mr. Speaker, I join with many Members today to say if it were up to 
us, we would recommend a different course of action that involves less 
risk to Americans. As a military man, I am fully aware that the 
Constitution does not place 535 Members of Congress in the direct 
military chain of command, and Americans who wear the uniform are also 
not shy in debating various courses of action. They have as many 
opinions on various issues as any civilian community, and that is their 
birthright as Americans. But as volunteers who wear the uniform, they 
take on an additional heavy obligation to make a decision, to bring an 
end to the debate, and to confront the enemies of the United States as 
brothers and sisters united by a common bond.

In coming days, our troops will face danger, not as Democrats, 
Independents or Republicans, but as Americans.

We in Congress should draw on their strength once our decision is 
made. When a course of action is set, we are not neutral in the 
contest. If Americans are engaged in combat, we are for the Americans 
winning. We will give them the tools to bring an end to the conflict as 
rapidly as possible. The debate in Congress will soon close and the 
course will be set. For those Americans who serve farthest from home, 
they should know that after a vigorous debate, their democracy will 
make a decision, and we will back those charged with its implementation 
with everything needed to succeed.