---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b40f8f96399768696da841a748fbf8f7`
`Mrs. LOWEY — 21 June 2007`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.

Mr. Chairman, I reluctantly rise in opposition to this amendment 
because, as I have explained to Mr. Shays, I believe this is a really 
critical program. I would love to work with you on it.

This amendment would provide $50 million in funding for Community 
Action Programs. There is no funding in this particular bill for Iraqi 
operations and reconstruction. As I explained to the gentleman, the 
reason there is no funding in this bill is because of the $2.8 billion 
in the supplemental and the $2.8 billion requested in September for the 
supplemental.

I want to make it very clear that I agree with the gentleman that the 
Community Action Program and NGO partnership with USAID does really 
good work. In fact, CAP is the only program of its kind to operate 
outside the Green Zone in Iraq. I have been a strong supporter of their 
efforts. I have met with them repeatedly. I know of their good work.

By working from the community level up and assisting Iraqi moderates 
who have eschewed sectarian and insurgent violence, the CAP partners 
directly engage Iraqis in reconstructing their own communities. They 
create employment. They build nationwide grass-roots constituency for 
democracy.

Congress identified CAP as a priority when it appropriated $100 
million specifically for CAP in the fiscal year 2006 supplemental. 
Additionally, we just provided $95 million for CAP in the 2000 
supplemental. I want to make it clear to my good friend from 
Connecticut that we put the money in after I met personally with 
representatives of CAP.

I understand the important work that they are doing. I have spoken to 
the CAP partners. They agreed that they do not need any additional 
funding in the regular fiscal year 2008 bill. They tell me they have 
enough to continue operations. As difficult as it is there, they are 
continuing operations through fiscal year 2008 at the current pace of 
operation.

They also noted that they worked very hard to stay under the radar in 
Iraq, which is what makes their great achievements possible. I want to 
make it clear that they have no interest, from my conversations with 
them, they don't want to be the foil in an Iraq funding debate. We have 
made it clear.

Mr. Chairman, I want to make it clear once again that the reason we 
are not providing additional funding and we cannot provide additional 
funding to the CAP in this bill is because of the $2.8 billion in the 
supplemental, the $2.8 billion that is being requested. The CAPs have 
made it clear they don't need the money now. They are operating under 
the radar. If we are providing zero funding for Iraq in this bill, they 
don't want to be part of this debate.

This is not a partisan issue. They are doing very important work. It 
has nothing to do with any of the other debate on Iraq. It is what is 
needed now. There are tremendous needs around the world that we are 
trying to fill in this bill.

So, again, with great respect for my good friend, Mr. Shays, we have 
worked together on many issues. I appreciate your concerns. I agree 
with your concerns, but not in this bill; and I look forward to 
continuing to work with you as we move ahead.

I thank the gentleman.