# None
## `b414aa29c16567e9c823c0250e496f6a`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, I just get so excited whenever you do 
your own research, and you find quotes and all.

But I can tell you what's important here is to make sure that we 
follow through on what we told the American people. The American people 
voted for representation, and I am not just talking about proud 
Democrats, Republicans, independents, some young people that voted for 
the first time in their lives because they believe that there will be 
balance in this democracy that we call on.

So many of the issues that we talk about here, and so many issues 
that are within our first 100 hours that we want to work on, Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz, and that we said we would do in our Six in 2006 
plan, the American people said they were for it overwhelmingly.

We have to be able to understand here in this House that we would 
carry out what we said would do. Now that is a paradigm shift here in 
this U.S. House. A lot has been said. Very little has been done, but we 
are moving in that direction.

I was in a meeting earlier today and saying that we need an 
escalation in the truth and not the troops. We need an escalation in 
the truth and not the troops.

The truth is that the U.K. is pulling 3,000 troops out by May. The 
truth is, several other countries that are, quote/unquote, allies in 
Iraq, they are paying ransom for their troops that are captured by 
insurgents, because of the lack of security there. The truth very well 
may be, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Ryan and Members, the President is 
trying to say, well, I am going to send this in light of security, what 
have you.

Security missions to secure Iraq. What does that mean? Troops having 
to go out on patrol. What does that mean? IEDs, improvised explosive 
devices that will be on those roads. What does that mean? Fifteen 
months away from your family once again on the second or third 
deployment. What does that mean also when you look at the overall two 
theaters that we have now? Over 1.4 million troops, U.S. troops, have 
gone into theater over and over again.

What is our situation right now? Two-thirds of our military not ready 
to move as it relates to readiness if something was to happen. We have 
one-third that is ready. I am not giving out national secrets. You can 
read this in the newspaper.

So what's our job is to govern. What's also our job is to make sure 
that we provide oversight. That is what this U.S. House is all about. 
We're the People's House. You have to be elected to get here. One 
person said, in the Constitution, you can appoint a speaker, whatever 
the case may be, but mainly there is an election if a Member was to 
say, I no longer want to serve, whatever that reason may be.

Saying all of that, I am glad we touched on the issue. I think it is 
important because I know there will be a lot of talk tomorrow, because 
the President is the Commander in Chief. We committed during the 
election, when I say we, those of us that are in the majority, that we 
will not leave, that we will have the troops back, and we will not 
leave them underfunded, and that we will not pull the funding of the 
troops that are in Iraq now.

No one, I mean, no one, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, no one, I want to say 
this again, not even the bipartisan study commission, none of them, 
endorsed what the President is talking about right now.

The President had a meeting with some folks that he has been having a 
meeting with for the last 6-plus years, having a meeting with the same 
people, having the same input, the same advisors, and it is a merry-go-
round of trust. I don't know if it is, you know, in all due respect to 
the folks that are making the decisions, I don't know if new people are 
being put into this circle of trust of saying, well, you know, maybe if 
I haven't been given good advice in the past, maybe I need to bring 
some different folks in to give me some input.

No, the only thing that happens in this circle of trust within the 
Bush administration is that sometimes people get off and they write a 
book about how bad the circle of trust was. That is what's happening.

Now, Donald Rumsfeld was the last one to jump off the merry-go-round. 
We don't know what he is going to say, but I think he is going to take 
it all the way, and he is not going to say anything at all. But there 
are a lot of bad decisions that have been made, and if you disagree 
within the circle of trust, you are out.

So I want the American people, I want the Members to pay very close 
attention, and, I am talking to my Republican friends as well as my 
Democratic friends, that we have the leader up and represent the 
American people on this issue as it relates to this escalation in 
troops. We need an escalation in the truth and not the troops, and that 
is where it is right now.