---
---

# None
## `b41854bfbbfa25cb4df02eb8d36f8ce8`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 27 February 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Madam President, I thank my friend and colleague. I will 
be brief because the message I have is a pretty straightforward 
message; that is, it is time for a change in Iraq. It has been a long 
time coming. We have been there 5 years, longer than we were in World 
War II, and it is time for a change in Iraq. It is time for a good 
change. What does that mean? It means that it is time for the Iraqis to 
stand up and fight for themselves.

We know the violence there continues. We know that 15 percent of that 
violence is being perpetrated by foreign fighters, al-Qaida, and the 
rest--85 percent--is Iraqi-on-Iraqi ethnic violence. If the Iraqis are 
not ready to stop hurting each other and blowing each other up, if they 
are not ready to give that up, then we need to be ready to start 
pulling our troops out. It is pretty clear to me after 5 years that all 
our presence is doing at this point is acting as a recruiting tool for 
al-Qaida. Because we have this open-ended commitment--some on the other 
side are talking about 50 to 100 years--there really is not anything on 
our side to exert that leverage on the Iraqis. They are not fulfilling 
the benchmarks in the Government that this administration said they had 
to do.

Here we have a situation where we have now lost 3,972 fighters on our 
side. Twenty-one percent of those were either born in California or 
were based in California. 29,275 Americans have been wounded, some of 
them grievously wounded, many more have traumatic brain injury and 
post-traumatic stress. The suicide rate is off the charts.

There is no way out. There is no plan. There never has been a plan. 
It seems to me this open-ended commitment has to stop, and the Feingold 
bill essentially says we are going to have a very responsible 
withdrawal. There is no end date, but we are going to start it within 
120 days of enactment of the bill, and we are going to shift the 
mission so that it continues training Iraqis.

By the way, I don't know if I mentioned this, the taxpayers of our 
country have paid to train 440,000 Iraqis.

We are spending $10 billion a month. That leads me to my final point 
of why I wanted this time this afternoon.

We have to start looking at what this is costing us. I say it is time 
for America. We are shortchanging our children. We need to provide 
health insurance to many of our children. To provide health insurance 
to 10 million uninsured children for 5 years would cost us what it 
costs for 5/1/2/ months in Iraq. To enroll all eligible 3- to 4-year-
olds in Head Start for 1 year would cost us 3 months in Iraq. To enroll 
2.5 million kids in afterschool programs--and, boy, do I have a feeling 
for that one because I worked with Senator Ensign to set up the first 
afterschool program, and it has been shorted. For 7 days in Iraq, we 
can enroll 2.5 million kids in afterschool programs for 1 year.

What else can I tell you about the funding? We are shortchanging 
America's workers. We can immediately replace structurally deficient 
bridges in the United States and create more than 3 million good-paying 
jobs for 6/1/2/ months of the cost in Iraq. Don't you think our workers 
deserve it? I do.

We could extend 13 additional weeks of unemployment insurance to the


chronically unemployed workers in high-unemployment States. One month 
in Iraq.

We could help an additional 1 million families keep their heat on 
this winter through the LIHEAP program. One day in Iraq, Madam 
President.

My colleagues come here and they have no end in sight for Iraq. Open 
checkbook for Iraq. Iraq in the morning, Iraq in the afternoon, Iraq at 
night, Iraq for 20 years, 50 years, maybe 100 years, as one Senator 
said. We can't afford it anymore.

OK, let's look at what else we could do. For those people like myself 
who care about homeland defense, for 6 weeks in Iraq we could ensure 
full interoperability of all our communication systems. Our firemen 
could talk to our policemen, who could talk to our sheriffs, who could 
talk to our hospitals, who could talk to our Red Cross. Six weeks in 
Iraq. We could provide first responders with 3 million communications 
devices for 1 month in Iraq. We could provide firefighters with 12 
million breathing devices for 1 month in Iraq.

Finally, if you care about America's environment, as I do, and many 
of the people I represent do, we could extend renewable energy 
production tax credits for 4 years. We could do those tax cuts for 
investments in renewables for 3 weeks in Iraq. For less than 3 days we 
could erase the Superfund backlog. And for less than 1 day we could 
triple the Energy bill authorization to train green-collar workers.

The American people have got to connect the dots here. We can't take 
care of our own. We can't take care of our kids. We can't do what we 
have to do for our workers. We can't do what we have to do for our 
businesses. We can't do what we have to do for our environment. And the 
reason is, our priority right now in this government, because of this 
administration and their friends in Congress, is Iraq in the morning, 
Iraq at 10 o'clock in the morning, Iraq at noon, Iraq at 5, Iraq at 
night, and we ignore the needs of our people.

There is a time and a place to say to a country that is independent, 
after all we have done for it: Enough is enough. We trained 440,000. We 
put our American lives on the line. Our brave soldiers have done 
everything asked of them and more. They allowed three elections to be 
held. They got Saddam Hussein, they got Saddam's family, and they found 
there were no weapons of mass destruction. They did everything we asked 
them to do. And the Iraqi Government takes tiny little steps, baby 
steps forward, while we continue having our soldiers die and get 
wounded and our taxpayers have an open checkbook.

My people come and say to me: Why can't we do more for our kids? Why 
can't we do more to protect our environment? Why can't we do more for 
our workers and our businesses? Why can't we do more to protect our 
people by investing in homeland security? I am now telling them the 
truth: Because the money is floating out of here straight to Iraq.

And by the way, a lot of it is not accounted for--$9 billion missing 
in cash that was sent. The administration shrugs its shoulders: Oh, 
well, we don't know much about it. Scandals in contracting, embassies 
that are larger than the U.N. complex. Some of the Iraqi people call it 
GW's palace. I was in Saddam's palace, and I will tell you something. 
That was not a happy feeling because that is not something that we want 
to replicate, huge buildings like that, fancy. How much does it cost? 
Almost $800 million. It was supposed to cost $592 million. It doesn't 
matter, it is in Iraq. Open the checkbook and write the checks, says 
the President, the Vice President, and their friends in Congress, who 
are coming here and saying: No, no, no, every time we want to finally 
begin to bring this war to a close.

Well, I have to tell you, I am ready for change, my constituents are 
ready for a change, and right now the Feingold legislation is 
responsible because it says we will keep troops there to protect our 
forces. We will slowly start bringing them home. We will redeploy them 
and have all the money we need to responsibly do that. And we will go 
after al-Qaida.

I voted to go to war against Osama bin Laden. What happened to Osama 
bin Laden dead or alive? Oh, no, this administration turned around, 
went into Iraq, and as a result, we are not safe. Al-Qaida has 
reconstituted itself, and we are shortchanging the American people.

I thank Senator Brownback for allowing me to go first, and I yield 
the floor.