---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b4207336c53ecce6947d6c0f29160add`
`Mr. CAMP of Michigan — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. CAMP of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the distinguished 
gentleman for yielding, and I want to thank him also for his 
distinguished service in the United States Congress, the United States 
Air Force, seven of those as a prisoner of war.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this nonbinding 
resolution. And I share with my colleagues, our servicemen and women 
and their families, the wish that this war was over and won. It is not, 
and the resolution before us today does nothing to resolve this 
conflict, does nothing to reduce the loss of American life, does 
nothing to stabilize Iraq and does nothing to advance our security.

I would like to use my time today to relate some of the comments that 
I have received from my constituents in the Fourth District of 
Michigan. From Big Rapids: ''The Congressmen and women who are opposed 
to these plans should come up with better solutions! Don't penalize our 
military men and women by making politics a part of their safety and 
well-being!''

From my hometown of Midland: ''Please stop playing politics with our 
lives and the lives of young people who are defending our country.''

From Alma: ''I am sick of the partisan politics. We went into Iraq 
united, but we have let politics divide us. It is time to realize some 
things are bigger than the political parties!''

Friends, we may often disagree. But the facts are, regardless of how 
it began, and irrespective of the benefit of hindsight, we are at war 
and Iraq is the central battleground.

Islamic extremists are waging a jihad against us, and they are 
struggling to make Iraq a base camp. Our focus must be on winning; and, 
disturbingly, I see no mention of winning, succeeding, or victory in 
this resolution. That in itself is telling of just how the other side 
perceives this conflict: not in terms of defeating an enemy of America, 
but in terms of defeating a political foe.

Our troops deserve better. The American people demand more from their 
leaders.

Again, in the words of one of my constituents from Bannister: ''I 
hope Congress is tough enough to do what works, not just what is 
politically correct. We need to move carefully and deliberately, 
showing a united front, or we are again going to be the victims of some 
outrageous terrorist attack.''

Sadly, the new majority does not seem to understand what so many 
Americans readily grasp. ''If you support the troops, you must support 
the mission or you send the wrong message to the enemy,'' as it was so 
aptly put by a constituent from Ashley.

From Farwell: ''Congress needs to get behind the President and help, 
not hurt, the morale of the soldiers that are fighting. They believe in 
their mission!''

And I believe in them, which is why I cannot and will not support 
this resolution.

As I conclude my remarks, I want to leave you with two comments. The 
first is from Traverse City: ''We should all pull together and get the 
job done.''

And the second, from an airman from Corunna: ''Thank you for the much 
needed support of me and my fellow airmen.''

I hope that once we dispose of this nonbinding resolution, our focus 
turns to supporting our servicemen and women, making America more 
secure and achieving the victory our military personnel are putting 
their lives on the line for.