---
---

# None
## `b422e2e96c933c3b21f1cdbfd4752e28`
`Mr. HUNTER — 31 March 2009`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank the gentleman from Utah. Thank you for your 
leadership and for your courage in telling the American people and in 
telling the Members of Congress what is really going on and what the 
money is being spent on that the President is asking for and that the 
Democrats are asking for. Thank you for your kind words as well.

I have been to Iraq twice as a United States marine, and I have been 
to Afghanistan once. We are probably at the biggest tipping point that 
we have ever seen since World War II when it comes to national defense 
and to national security. We have more violence along our border region 
than we have ever had in this country. Right now, with those two, 
large, pressing issues, we are spending a pittance on those two 
issues--the national security issues that involve the border and that 
involve Iraq and Afghanistan and China and North Korea and Russia--
compared to what we are spending in giving money to the failed 
companies run into the ground by their executives who have been ruled 
by greed. I would like to go over some of those shortfalls in the 
President's defense budget coming up.

First off, in fiscal year 2010, the President's budget is $30 billion 
less than what the Joint Chiefs of Staff asked for. The Joint Chiefs of 
Staff are the ones who are the experts on the military and on what the 
American military needs to sustain itself and to fight future threats 
and future enemies. We are $30 billion short. They asked for $584 
billion for fiscal year 2010. The President is only going to give them 
$533 billion. This is a 10 percent decrease over what the joint chiefs 
asked for over 10 years. That is a $1.3 trillion deficit for the U.S. 
military at a time when we are fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan and 
when we are prosecuting terrorists around the world for our security 
here at home.

We have veterans returning home, and we have people coming home who 
have given that ultimate sacrifice, those who have paid that ultimate 
price, who have given that final measure of devotion. We are going to 
cut spending for them. We are going to cut their benefits here at home. 
We are going to cut the money that goes towards their armor and their 
bullets and their food and their medicine. We are going to cut that 
right now. In this time of gluttonous spending, we are going to choose 
to cut spending for our U.S. military.

Our Navy fleet has declined from 568 ships in the late 1980s to 276 
ships now. We need over 300. The average age of the airplanes in the 
Air Force has risen from 9 years in 1973 to 24 years old. I mean the 
average age of each of the Air Force's airplanes is over 27 years old. 
They used to have 37 fighter wing equivalents in the '80s. Now they 
have only 20. This past year alone, ship maintenance funding is $417 
million short. That is not what I would call putting America's security 
first. That is putting America's security last.

When I hear the President talking about national security or when I 
hear the Democrats giving a moment of silence in this room for our 
military, it seems insincere to me that they would do that on one hand 
and tell the American people that they are helping out and that they 
are doing everything that they can do for national security's sake 
while, at the same time, they are


going to cut defense spending. JFK spent more on defense than we are 
spending now. Ronald Reagan spent more on defense than we are spending 
now. While in the middle of two wars, we need to increase, if anything, 
defense spending and keep it at 4 percent of our GDP to keep America 
safe. We have more threats now than we have ever had.

I would like to yield back to the gentleman from Utah.