# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b4262556607969afa43b5f736e2909d5`
`Mr. SPECTER — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Well, I thank the Senator from Alabama for complimenting 
me for my passion for truth. It so happens that is the title of the 
book I wrote--Harper Collins, available online.

Back to the case, though, Mr. President, and I will be brief here. I 
would point to Judge Southwick's overall record. It is an excellent 
record: cum laude from Rice, J.D. from the University of Texas Law 
School, clerk for the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, an 
adjunct professor in the Mississippi College of Law, unanimously well 
qualified by the American Bar Association.

And then an extraordinary thing. When he was in his fifties, he 
volunteered to go to Iraq in the Judge Advocate General's Corps, and 
was in areas with very heavy fighting. He interrupted a 12-year service 
on the Mississippi appellate court to do that. That is an extraordinary 
act, really extraordinary, for somebody in his position to do.

I sat down with Judge Southwick at some length to talk to him, and he 
is an enormously impressive man. He is very mild mannered. He has been 
on the court, as I say, for 12 years. He has participated in 6,000 
cases, he has written 985 opinions, and all they can extract out of 
this record is one case which, as the colloquy with the Senator from 
Alabama points out, doesn't establish a peppercorn. That is a legal 
expression for being practically weightless in terms of what their 
objections are.

The Senator from Illinois then went through the history of the last 
two nominees who were shot down. I have a reputation and a record to 
back it up, to have supported President Clinton's nominees, crossing 
party lines, when they were qualified.


The Senator from Illinois makes it a point--not that it has anything 
to do with this case--that the Republicans didn't give 70 of President 
Clinton's nominees a hearing.



That was wrong. That was wrong. But what we are doing here is we are 
visiting on Judge Southwick somebody else's sins. If I thought he was 
not qualified, I wouldn't be taking the lead that I am in this case.

When we go through these issues, it is reminiscent of the very 
contentious controversy which was raised on this floor in 2005 when the 
Democrats were filibustering judges in retaliation for what had 
happened during the Clinton years and the Republicans were threatening 
the so-called constitutional or nuclear option. We ought not go back to 
those days.

When you have a man with the record of Judge Leslie Southwick, he is 
being picked on. With the extensive record he has, to cite one case and 
to talk about perception--I repeat, when the Senator from Illinois says 
that perception is determinative, I say that this body ought to vote on 
the facts.

I am pleased to see that a number of Democrats are interviewing Judge 
Southwick, and I believe they will find him to be very impressive, as I 
did. I strongly urge my colleagues to look at the facts very carefully. 
The Senate should not function on perception. The Senate should not 
function on what somebody else concludes or believes. We ought not do 
that. We ought to look at the record and make the decision in fairness 
to this man and in fairness to the entire process of confirmation of 
Federal judges.

I yield the floor.