---
---

# THE ECONOMY
## `b4285bbc16071fb3755bb8ad457fd823`
`Mr. BROWN — 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, since I took office last year, I have held 
more than 115 roundtables in nearly all of Ohio's 88 counties--from 
Ashtabula to Cincinnati, from Bryan the Gallipolis--as I bring together 
15 or 20 people from a community and listen to them talk about their 
hopes and their dreams and what we can do together to make Ohio a 
better place and to move this country


forward. But more than anything else, as I listen to people in 
communities such as Bucyrus and Mansfield and Wauseon, I hear about 
widespread economic anxiety and a betrayed middle class.

Ohioans have understood that for years, especially in the first 6 
years of the Bush administration, this government allowed the drug 
companies to write the Medicare laws, allowed the oil industry to 
dictate energy policy, had allowed Wall Street to push through job-
killing trade agreements through the House and the Senate.

They feel the middle class was betrayed by our Government. I hear 
from Ohioans worried about record high gas prices, worried about food 
prices, worried about good-paying jobs continuing to move overseas, 
worried about health insurance that costs more and covers less.

Some of these worries can be blamed in part on our current recession, 
but that misses the larger point. For the last 7 years, the labor force 
workers have worked harder and harder, leading to huge gains in 
productivity. The productivity of workers in our economy has gone up 
like this. Yet CEOs' salaries and bonuses went through the roof while 
middle class Americans' wages stagnated and more families slipped below 
the poverty line. Again, productivity has gone up like this, meaning 
workers are creating more wealth for their employers, but wages have 
been stagnant for 80 or 90 percent of the workforce.

In other words, as workers have produced more, as workers have been 
more productive, as workers have made more money for their bosses, if 
you will, they simply have not shared in the wealth they created. They 
are not getting raises. They are paying more for health insurance, they 
are seeing their pensions begin to disintegrate, as they are making 
more and more money for their employer.

At the same time, while China manipulated its currency and ignored 
labor and environmental standards, corporations took the bait and 
abandoned American communities. While hedge fund managers irresponsibly 
leveraged real estate holdings, millions of Americans lost their homes 
to foreclosures. In other words, while Wall Street enjoyed an inflated 
stock market and a so-called economic expansion, most Americans 
actually became worse off.

In the last few weeks, we know things have gotten worse. The 
Government has been forced to seize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Lehman 
Brothers, an institution on Wall Street for 150 years, filed for 
bankruptcy on Monday. It is also reported that for the 8th straight 
month, our Nation has lost jobs. The national unemployment rate is now 
6.1 percent--a 5-year high. We know what happened to AIG today.

Mr. President, 9.4 million Americans are officially unemployed, 2.2 
million more than a year ago--tens of thousands in my State of Ohio. In 
fact, you have to go back more than 15 years, to December 1992, to find 
a time when more Americans were forced to rely on the Government for 
their income.

In my State of Ohio, middle class workers are facing even more bad 
news. DHL, the cargo express carrier, has announced that more than 
8,000 workers at Wilmington Air Park, the largest privately owned 
airport in the United States, will lose their jobs. Norwalk Furniture 
halted operations earlier this month, sending 500 employees home. 
General Motors is closing its plant in Moraine, a decision that will 
cost 1,200 Ohioans their livelihoods.

Do you know what. The worst part is this: The administration is proud 
of this record. They are proud of the free trade agreements that have 
protected corporate interests, that have eliminated good-paying 
manufacturing jobs, that have brought unsafe food, drugs, and toys into 
American homes. They are proud of these free trade agreements, and they 
want more of them.

They are proud of the tax cuts that went overwhelmingly to the 
wealthy and ignored the plight of the middle class. We know what that 
has meant. It has meant budget deficits as far as the eye can see. It 
has meant more money for the wealthiest people in this society, paid 
for by the middle class, and paid for by our children and our 
grandchildren of the future. Yet they are proud of these tax cuts that 
go overwhelmingly to the rich. The administration is proud of the 
financial deregulation that allowed greed on Wall Street to run amok.

These days, Republicans respond to critics by saying: Things aren't 
so bad. John McCain, our colleague from Arizona, said: The foundations 
of the economy are strong. Former Senator Phil Gramm, the mentor of 
Senator McCain, the chief economic adviser to Senator McCain, said: The 
recession is in our heads. It is a mental recession, he said.

I guess if you think things are going well, you advocate for more of 
the same, which is why Republicans continue to push for more tax cuts 
for corporations that outsource jobs overseas, pushing more energy 
policies that enrich oil companies and reinforce our dependence on 
foreign oil, pushing for more subsidies for private HMOs participating 
in Medicare, pushing more antiunion policies that undercut workers' 
power to bargain collectively and join the middle class, pushing for 
more hypocrisy that says we can afford to spend $10 billion a month in 
Iraq; we just cannot find the money to help uninsured children in 
Columbus or Zanesville or Dayton or Chillicothe or Springfield or 
Xenia.

In fact, since we had our last vote, about an hour ago, we have spent 
some $19 million on the war in Iraq. In the last hour, we have spent 
about $19 million on the war in Iraq. Think what that could do for 
health care, for education, for rebuilding our infrastructure in Lima 
and in Portsmouth and in Chillicothe. Perhaps most troubling of all, 
Republicans are still, unbelievably enough, pushing for the 
privatization of Social Security. Can my colleagues imagine--Senator 
Sanders and I were talking about this a moment ago--if 3 years ago, 
when George Bush, Dick Cheney, and John McCain were fighting to 
privatize Social Security, and people in this institution, including 
Leader Reid and Senator Sanders, when he was in the House of 
Representatives, and many of us fought against that privatization of 
Social Security--can my colleagues imagine if that had passed in early 
2005? If the President and Senator McCain had had their way on the 
privatization of Social Security, can my colleagues imagine what this 
week would look like? Can my colleagues imagine, if 50 million retired 
Americans had had their entire life savings locked up in the stock 
market--can my colleagues imagine 50 million Americans opening their 
Social Security records, their mailing they get from Social Security 
and looking at what happened to their private accounts; money they had 
put in the stock market because George Bush and John McCain insisted on 
this risky scheme to privatize Social Security? Can my colleagues 
imagine what that would do to seniors in our society? Can my colleagues 
imagine what that would do to their future--if you are 65 and already 
on Social Security, if you are 50 and your mother is on Social 
Security, if you are about to join the ranks of Social Security? Can my 
colleagues imagine what one would think with food prices going up, with 
gas prices going up and all of a sudden, because you have these John 
McCain-George Bush privatized Social Security accounts, can my 
colleagues imagine what would be happening to their lives this week and 
the weeks ahead?


Despite 7 years of this tired thinking and of the wrong-headed 
economic policies that betray our middle class, American workers are 
standing strong and continuing to fight for a better future.

At my roundtables--as I mentioned, I have done some 1,500 roundtables 
in most of Ohio's 88 counties, in Cambridge and in Steubenville and in 
Defiance and in Miami County, all over--I still hear the hope and 
determination that defines this great Nation. I hear from community 
leaders. I hear from entrepreneurs with exciting plans for the future. 
What is happening with the incubator in Youngstown? What is happening 
with small business in Delaware? I hear about what people in Mansfield, 
my hometown, are doing to fight back. I hear from small business owners 
who are continuing to do the right thing. I hear from their loyal 
workers who take pride in their work and are valued by their employers. 
They tell us we need a government that similarly values loyalty and 
work ethic.



For too long, those in power have simply turned their back on 
American workers. They have ignored their needs and their dreams--the 
dreams of the middle class. They have instead catered to the wealthiest 
Americans. We know that a strong middle class builds a prosperous 
society and is the engine that makes this country go. But it doesn't 
have to be the way we have seen in the last few years where this 
Government in Washington--that allowed the drug companies to write the 
Medicare law; that allowed the oil industry to write energy policy; 
that allows Wall Street to push through job-killing trade agreements--
all of this betrayal of the middle class from George Bush to Dick 
Cheney to John McCain, to far too many of my colleagues in this body 
and down the hall in the House of Representatives--people have had 
enough of this betrayal of the middle class. It doesn't have to be that 
way. The sooner we change direction, the sooner our economic woes will 
be behind us.

I yield the floor.