# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `b43b4abc8c5339c785ac5578d93fb024`
`Mr. HOYER — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, at the outset, let me comment on the ranking member's 
observation about political posturing.

First, let me say I wonder what the President was doing standing in 
front of that sign saying ''Mission Accomplished'' on that aircraft 
carrier with taxpayers' dollars. Let me suggest to you that he was 
politically posturing, trying to take credit for a great victory that 
occurred 4 years ago. No one in America believes that the mission has 
been accomplished. No one in America thinks we have had a success.

Let me say that it was totally appropriate for the Speaker and for 
the majority leader in the United States Senate to sign a bill and let 
the public know that this is what the Congress believes.

My friend may think political posturing is taking responsibility, 
which is our constitutional duty, as opposed to simply rubber-stamping 
what the President wants done. There has not been any question asked 
for the last 4 years by this Congress. There has not been any 
interposition of a correct policy as opposed to the President's failed 
policy.

We don't see that as political posturing, I tell my friend--we see it 
as exercising the constitutional duty that the American public expects 
us to do as their independent representative.

This is only the second veto. Why is it only the second veto? Because 
you wouldn't pass anything the President didn't want. That is not the 
role of the Congress of the United States. The role of the Congress of 
the United States is to make policy. That is what article I says. That 
is what we are doing.

Mr. Speaker, regrettably, the President has chosen not to follow the 
will of the American people and bipartisan majorities in the House and 
Senate by vetoing legislation that fully funds our troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, that holds the Iraqis accountable for making progress, and 
that calls for a responsible redeployment of American forces who are 
mired in a civil war.

It is our duty now as the elected representatives of the people to 
try to override the President's veto even though we may not succeed, 
and even as we prepare to meet with the President today to discuss next 
steps. That is our responsibility. We intend to do it.

Mr. Speaker, I believe our President, who was wrong 4 years ago when 
he stood under a banner announcing ''Mission Accomplished,'' is wrong 
again. The escalation of American troops in Iraq does not represent a 
change in this administration's failed policy. In fact, it is the 
fourth time we have escalated troops. In fact, it has been tried, 
unsuccessfully.

The President's claim last night that ''We've begun to see some 
important results'' is unfortunately contradicted by the facts. I wish 
it were true. I want to succeed in this effort, although what success 
is is ill-defined or not defined by the President.

In fact, Iraq is wracked by violence, including massive car bombs, 
almost daily. The U.S. death toll in April of 104 made last month the 
deadliest of the year and the sixth most lethal month since the war 
started, notwithstanding this increase in troop presence.

Senator Hagel, who recently returned from Iraq, stated: ''This thing 
is coming undone quickly, and the Maliki government is weaker by the 
day.''

And the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction just 
reported: ''The U.S. project to rebuild Iraq remains far short of its 
targets, leaving the country plagued by power outages, inadequate oil 
production and shortages of clean water and health care.''

I suggest to my friend, in that context, the Congress ought to be 
impacting on the policies that are being pursued that are not 
succeeding.

Finally, let me say, and I call the attention of my friend, the 
ranking member, to this because he referenced this. The President's 
claim last night that this legislation ''substitutes the opinions of 
politicians for the judgment of our military commanders'' is totally 
inaccurate.

But let me tell you what is not inaccurate is that our military 
commanders have made none of the decisions on the policies we have been 
pursuing in Iraq, and that is the tragedy. The decisions have been made 
not by military men and women, but by the President, by Mr. Cheney, by 
Mr. Rumsfeld, by Mr. Wolfowitz, and, yes, by Mr. Bremer.

We have seen nothing, I tell my friend, but a series of political 
decisions made on this war over the last 4-plus years; would that it 
have been otherwise. We do not seek to micromanage our military, which 
has done everything we have asked of them. Rather, we do continue to 
question the decisions of top administration officials, including, yes, 
the President,


whose judgments regarding this war have proved repeatedly, almost 
without exception, wrong.

Indeed, it is ironic that the President makes this claim when, in 
fact, we are mired in Iraq, because politicians who I have just 
referenced made decisions that prove to be wrong and did not lead to 
success.

Mr. Speaker, this Congress must not continue to simply rubber-stamp 
this administration's request. Our Founding Fathers did not think that 
was our role. They thought our role was to make independent judgments 
on the people's behalf and have the courage to pass legislation 
reflecting that judgment.

This legislation responds to the will of the American people and sets 
forth a policy to take us in a new direction that requires Iraqi 
responsibility and the pursuit of the political solution that General 
Petraeus and the Iraq Study Group say was essential if we were going to 
succeed.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues from both sides of the aisle: 
Listen to the American people, fully fund our troops, hold the Iraqis 
accountable, support responsible redeployment of American troops. Vote 
to override this veto.