# None
## `b4426f67b4163d52a5a88bd176edeec1`
`Mr. CHANDLER — 4 June 2008`

---


Mr. CHANDLER. Madam Chairman, I am very proud to be here today to 
introduce the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School 
Facilities Act, authorizing almost $7 billion for our struggling 
schools.

I would like to express my sincere appreciation to our cosponsors on 
this bill, in particular Mr. Kildee and Mr. Loebsack, but especially 
Chairman Miller who has done an incredible job as chairman of the 
Education and Labor Committee and I very much appreciate what the 
gentleman from California has done on this bill.

Where children learn has a large impact on what they learn, and the 
evidence is undeniable. The U.S. Department of Education tells us that 
modern, functional school facilities are truly important for effective 
student learning. Consequently, it is unacceptable that some of our 
children spend their days in buildings with faulty wiring, leaking 
roofs, lead paint, and asbestos.

In 1995, the GAO found that schools were in desperate need of repairs 
totaling $112 billion. Over a decade later, the need is even greater. 
Each day we are competing on a global stage and not always winning that 
competition, and investing in the education of our children at home is 
the key to staying in the game. We are spending hundreds of billions of 
dollars in Iraq. Surely, surely we can invest less than $7 billion in 
the future of our children and the future of our country.

This bill is a home run. It will give much needed money to our 
schools struggling with huge budget deficits, while encouraging energy 
efficiency and creating jobs for Americans that cannot be shipped 
overseas. Today, I urge you, Democrats and Republicans alike, make this 
important investment in our schools, in our children, and in our 
future.