# CONDOLENCES TO FAMILIES OF GRADUATES OF BUCHANAN HIGH SCHOOL
## `b4435c639779ac837c26eae013a4fc35`
`Mr. NUNES — 14 September 2010`

---


Mr. NUNES. Madam Speaker, I rise today on behalf of myself and my 
colleagues Congressmen Jim Costa and George Radanovich, to extend our 
deepest condolences to the families of Buchanan High School graduates 
of Clovis, California who were lost in battle.

Words are insufficient to convey the depth of pain and loss felt by 
the families, friends, and colleagues of these brave men. They 
displayed enormous courage and a true commitment to protecting our 
Nation. Their tragic loss will continue to be felt by many for years to 
come.

Marine Corporal Jeremiah A. Baro, 21, of Fresno, California was 
assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 5th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, in Camp Pendleton, California. 
He died on November 4th, 2004, of injuries sustained due to enemy 
action in Al Anbar province, Iraq. Jeremiah was a 2001 graduate of 
Buchanan High School.

Marine Lance Corporal Jared P. Hubbard, 22, of Clovis, California was 
assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 5th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, in Camp Pendleton, California. 
He died on November 4th, 2004, of injuries sustained due to enemy 
action in Al Anbar province, Iraq. Jared was a 2001 graduate of 
Buchanan High School.

Marine Lance Corporal Anthony E. Butterfield, 19, of Clovis, 
California died on July 29th 2006 while conducting combat operations in 
Al Anbar province, Iraq. He was assigned to the 3rd Light Armored 
Reconnaissance Battalion, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary 
Force, in Twentynine Palms, California. Tony was a 2005 graduate of 
Buchanan High School.

Army Private First Class Rowan D. Walter, 25, of Winnetka, California 
was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 9th Infantry Regiment, 2nd Brigade 
Combat Team, 2nd Infantry Division, in Fort Carson, Colorado. He died 
on February 23rd, 2007, of injuries suffered when an improvised 
explosive device detonated near his Humvee during combat operations in 
Ramadi, Iraq. Rowan was a 1999 graduate of Buchanan High School.

Army Corporal Nathan C. Hubbard, 21, of Clovis, California was 
assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 35th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry 
Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division, at the Schofield Barracks 
in Hawaii. He died on August 22nd, 2007 when a Black Hawk helicopter 
crashed in Northern Iraq. Nathan was a 2004 graduate of Buchanan High 
School.

Senior Airman Nicholas D. Eischen, 24, of Sanger, California was 
assigned to the 60th Medical Operations Squadron at Travis Air Force 
Base in California. He died on Christmas Eve 2007 while serving as an 
emergency room medic at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan. Nathan was a 
2001 graduate of Buchanan High School and played on the varsity 
football team.

Sergeant Brian F. Piercy, 26, of Clovis, California was assigned to 
the U.S. Army's Alpha Company, 2-508 Parachute Infantry Regiment, 4th 
Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division in Fort Bragg, North 
Carolina. He was killed on July 19th, 2010, while serving in combat in 
Afghanistan. Brian was a 2001 graduate from Buchanan High School, and 
the son of Alta Sierra math teacher Carol Piercy.

Today we honor each of these brave young men for their service to our 
country and extend our condolences to their families, friends, and 
colleagues.
