---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION DEFICITS AND DEBT BACKGROUND
## `b44999ae56cd51f35f7dbb0996c355b0`
`Mr. ROSS — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I appreciate the gentleman and his leadership within the 
Blue Dog Coalition and his work on the House Armed Services Committee 
and for his insight this evening.

We all support our troops, Republicans and Democrats alike. As 
members of the Blue Dog Coalition, we want accountability for how your 
tax money is being spent. In 2001 and 2002, $2.5 billion was being 
spent in Iraq. In 2003, $51 billion. In 2004, $77.3 billion. In 2005, 
$87.3 billion. In 2006, $100.4 billion. And 2007 to date, $60 billion, 
for a total of $378.5 billion.

We are currently spending about $10 billion a month, about $2.5 
billion a week. You do the math. It is about $12 million an hour of 
your tax money we are sending to Iraq. What are they doing with it? 
Number one, they ought to be ensuring that our brave men and women in 
uniform get the best body armor available to them. There are reports 
out that indicate maybe that is not exactly the case.

This was brought to my attention by John Grant from Pearcy, Arkansas, 
just outside of Hot Springs, in Garland County. His son is getting 
ready to go back for a second tour of duty. He visited a National Guard 
Armory where he actually saw body armor that was stamped ''Fragile, 
Handle With Care.'' It is time we did right by our brave men and women 
in uniform and provide them with the resources they need.

The Blue Dogs have written a bill with the help of Captain Patrick 
Murphy, a veteran of the Iraq war and fellow Blue Dog member, and Jane 
Harman, former ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee, 
among others, and our bill demands accountability on how our tax money, 
your tax money, is being spent in Iraq.

One of the reasons that we decided to do this bill was because of 
reports like this: Washington Post, Monday, April 30, a story by Dana 
Hedgpeth, entitled, ''U.S. Rebuilding in Iraq is Missing Key Goals, 
Report Finds.'' Less than a third of Iraq's 3.5 million students attend 
class. In the medical field, for example, only 15 of 141 primary health 
care centers have been completed, and only eight of those are open to 
the public. The list goes on, and we will talk more about this in a 
little bit.

At this time I yield to a former co-chair of the Blue Dogs and an 
active member of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition, the 
gentleman from Utah (Mr. Matheson).