---
---

# None
## `b44f1e15348d8eab1386732c514ebd78`
`Mr. LEAHY — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am pleased to note that we included 
funding in the appropriations package for landmark programs created by 
the Justice For All Act of 2004. Specifically, we provide $2.5 million 
for Capital Litigation Improvement Grants to improve the quality of 
legal representation in State capital cases, and over $152 million to 
improve Federal and State DNA collection and analysis systems critical 
to the prosecution of the guilty and the protection of the innocent 
from wrongful prosecution.

The Justice For All Act capped more than 4 years of effort by a 
bipartisan House and Senate coalition that included both supporters and 
opponents of the death penalty. It is the most significant step we have 
taken in many years to improve the quality of justice in this country 
and restore public confidence in the integrity of the American justice 
system.

That law increased Federal resources for combating crimes with DNA 
technology, established safeguards to prevent wrongful convictions and 
executions, and enhanced protections for victims of Federal crimes.

It authorized the Debbie Smith grant program to address the DNA 
backlog crisis in the Nation's crime labs, and created new grant 
programs to reduce other forensic science backlogs, train criminal 
justice and medical personnel in the use of DNA evidence, and promote 
the use of DNA technology to identify missing persons. It also 
established enhanced and enforceable rights for crime victims in the 
Federal criminal justice system.

The law also included legislation I authored called the Innocence 
Protection Act. That measure provides access to postconviction DNA 
testing in Federal cases, helps States improve the quality of legal 
representation in capital cases, and increases compensation in Federal 
cases of wrongful conviction. It established the Kirk Bloodsworth 
PostConviction DNA Testing Program to help States defray the costs of 
postconviction DNA testing.

Getting the Justice For All Act fully-funded has proven to be tough, 
especially given the fiscal crunch that all criminal justice programs 
have faced in recent years. However, as a senior member of the 
Appropriations Subcommittee that sets the Justice Department budget, I 
have worked closely with CJS Chairwoman Mikulski and Ranking Member 
Shelby to include in the omnibus package roughly $155 million to 
advance the comprehensive and far-reaching reforms in the criminal 
justice system established under the Justice For All Act. I thank my 
colleagues for their leadership in this area.

State and local authorities will be better able to implement and 
enforce crime victims' rights laws, including Federal victim and 
witness assistance programs. They can apply for grants to develop and 
implement victim notification systems so that they can share 
information on criminal proceedings in a timely and efficient manner.

The intent of the Justice For All Act was to create a fairer and more 
accurate system of justice for all Americans. The spending priorities 
set forth in the Justice Department portion of the fiscal year 2008 
Omnibus appropriations package will help protect crime victims, 
maximize the use of forensic DNA evidence testing, and provide 
safeguards to prevent wrongful convictions and executions.

I note that this bill is the product of more than 9 months of work by 
the Senate and House Appropriations Committees. It meets the 
President's arbitrary budget ceiling, but because of the arbitrary 
ceiling, we have had to cut a number of things. Senator Gregg, 
Congresswoman Lowey, Congressman Wolf, and I worked on that to agree to 
the numbers so that the foreign ops part is not a Democratic bill or a 
Republican bill, it is a bipartisan bill that attempts to address a 
myriad of foreign policy, national security, and domestic needs of this 
country.

Other subcommittees worked just as hard and in a similar bipartisan 
manner. None of us are completely happy with the outcome. We had to 
make exceedingly difficult cuts to get to the President's number. But 
that is the nature of this process.

It is ironic that a President who said he would veto this bill unless 
it was within his self-proclaimed budget ceiling because he wants to 
keep a lid on spending, is asking Congress for another $70 billion in 
emergency funding to continue the war in Iraq.

Those dollars do not score against the budget, so the White House can 
espouse the fiction that the President is being fiscally responsible at 
the same time that he piles on the debt for future generations.

Of course, he never threatened to veto any of the appropriations 
conference reports during the past 6 years.

It is a political ploy after inheriting a balanced budget and 
tripling the national debt, but it is going to be hard felt by the 
American people. Cuts in funding for education, health care, public 
infrastructure, homeland security, environmental protection, 
transportation--no part of the federal budget was exempted except 
defense.

The State and Foreign Operations portion of the bill is $2 billion 
below the President's budget. A full $1.3 billion of that cut was the 
result of the President's veto threat.

It means fewer children will receive vaccinations in the poorest 
countries, less money for international peacekeeping, less for HIV/AIDS 
prevention, care and treatment, less for non-proliferation and anti-
terrorism programs, less for disaster relief, less for education, 
environment, energy and agriculture programs.

But, if the President gets his way, there will be tens of billions of 
dollars more to keep our troops bogged down in Iraq, while the Iraqi 
Sunnis and Shiites continue to fight among themselves.

Despite that, this omnibus bill is a far, far better outcome than 
continued spending at the fiscal year 2007 levels, and the dire 
consequences that would bring.

The State and Foreign Operations portion totals $35.1 billion in 
discretionary budget authority including $2.4 billion in emergency 
spending.

Without emergency spending, the bill totals $32.8 billion, which is 
$2 billion below the President's regular fiscal year 2008 request and 
$1.52 billion above the fiscal year 2007 level.

Here are some of the highlights:

We provide $6.5 billion for global health programs, including $345 
million to combat malaria, $150 million for tuberculosis, and $5 
billion for HIV/AIDS.

We provide $546 million for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria. Added to funds in the Labor, Health and Human 
Services bill, this omnibus bill provides a total of $841 million for 
the Global Fund, an increase of $115 million above last year's level.

It includes $446 million for child and maternal health, which is 
almost $100 million above last year's level.

We provide $1.69 billion for United Nations peacekeeping, $550 of 
which will support the desperately needed UN-African Union force in 
Darfur.

The bill provides $1 billion to assist the world's refugees, and $100 
million to help Jordan cope with the hundreds of thousands of Iraqi 
refugees that have flooded that country, which is already home to tens 
of thousands of Palestinians.

The bill provides the requested funds for Israel, Egypt, Pakistan, 
Afghanistan, the West Bank, Lebanon, and other needy countries.

It provides $1.54 billion for the Millennium Challenge Corporation, 
which is $344 million above the Senate-passed level.

It provides $501 million for Educational and Cultural Exchange 
Programs, an increase of $55 million above the fiscal year 2007 level.

The bill does not include the so-called Mexico City language 
concerning international family planning which would have led to a 
Presidential veto. It is regrettable that the President would rather 
score political points than support private organizations that would 
use our funds for voluntary family planning services.

The bill provides $968 million for embassy security, which is $190 
million above the fiscal year 2007 level.

There are several other important provisions in the State and Foreign 
Operations portion of this omnibus bill.

One would make long overdue reforms to current law by allowing 
thousands of persecuted refugees, barred because they were members of 
armed groups that were allied with the U.S., or who were forced to 
offer food, shelter or other services to terrorist groups, to seek 
asylum here.



This change was worked out by myself and Senator Kyl, and would 
provide relief to such Vietnam-era allies as the Hmong tribesman of 
Laos and the Montagnards of Vietnam, and for child soldiers and others 
who were forced against their will to provide support to terrorist 
groups.

These people were there for us when we needed them, and we should not 
turn our backs when they need the safety of our shores. It is an 
affront to our values and to our reputation as a safe haven for victims 
of persecution.

The changes we are making will also provide relief for Iraqi 
refugees, some of whom have been barred for paying ransom to secure the 
release of a family member who was kidnapped by insurgents.

This change will not raise the number of refugees admitted to the 
United States, but it will bring our laws back in line with our values.

This bill contains other provisions, some proposed by Democrats, some 
by Republicans, which make important improvements in our foreign 
assistance programs.

We provide $300 million for safe drinking water and sanitation 
programs, consistent with the Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor 
Act.

There are funds set aside for reconciliation and people-to-people 
coexistence programs in the Middle East, as well as in other countries 
divided by ethnic, religious, or political conflict.

There are new provisions which address the problem of corruption and 
governance in countries that receive U.S. assistance.

There are new provisions to improve monitoring of U.S. military aid 
to countries that have human rights problems, and to address the 
problem of child soldiers.

Mr. President, these are only a few of the items supported by both 
Democrats and Republicans in this omnibus bill, and they are only 
within the State and Foreign Operations portion.

There are thousands of other important domestic programs funded by 
each of the other subcommittees whose bills make up this omnibus 
appropriations bill.

Lastly, I wish the American public realized how much Senators on both 
sides of the aisle work together. I wish the American public realized 
the number of friendships there are on both sides of the aisle, both 
among the Senators and their families. Are we going to pass a perfect 
bill here? No. Am I opposed to the blank check for Iraq? Yes.

We have been in Iraq longer than we were engaged in World War II. It 
is time to let our brave men and women come home to their families. I 
believe that from the bottom of my soul. The opposition I have to this 
bill is because of that.

I know how proud I was when my youngest son, LCpl Mark Patrick Leahy 
of the Marine Corps, was one to answer the call in Desert Storm, as 
much as I feared for his safety, and how pleased I was that war ended 
so quickly, that he was not in harm's way.

I also worry that that is not something parents can say when they see 
parents and wives and husbands, children and brothers and sisters when 
they see their family members in a war that has lasted longer than 
World War II. It is time to say: Come home, America. Come home, 
America, and face the problems in our country. Let the Iraqis now face 
their problems. Let them stand at the plate. Let us address the fact 
that we have so many unanswered problems in health and science, in 
addressing our myriad diseases, education, infrastructure, and 
everything else in this country.

One thing I must say is that is in this bill, Senator Stevens and I 
changed the so-called WHTI provision in the omnibus. It shows some 
realities across the border into Canada and vice versa. There are those 
of us who think of Canada as that great country to the North. There are 
some of us who have family ties in Canada, some of us who feel that 
Canada is not a threat to the United States and we should not treat it 
as such.

Mr. President, one important issue I wish to highlight today is an 
international border issue with our friendly neighbors in Canada, 
Mexico, and the Caribbean that could have severe implications for the 
social and economic ways of life for communities all across our 
country.

In the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks, Congress has 
enacted a number of new border security measures, all with the 
expressed goal of preventing another terrorist incident. In this bill, 
we have worked hard to provide the needed resources for these programs 
in a fair and balanced manner. Post 9/11, everyone recognizes that 
there are potential threats and security needs, but we must implement 
them sensibly and intelligently.

Over the past few years, I have heard from many Vermonters about 
problems they have encountered at U.S. border crossings, from long 
traffic backups to invasive searches and questioning to inadequate 
communication from Federal authorities about new facilities and 
procedures. Such a top-down approach does not work well in interwoven 
communities along the border, where people cross daily from one side to 
the other for jobs, shopping, and cultural events. We have hardened 
security around this Capitol and the White House and built fences near 
San Diego. But those procedures do not work on Canusa Avenue in Beebe 
Plain, a two-lane road where one side of the street is Vermont and the 
other side is Quebec, or at the Haskell Free Library and Opera House, 
which straddles the international border in Derby Line, Vermont, and 
Stanstead, Quebec.

That is why I am pleased that this bill includes a much-needed delay 
for full implementation of the so-called Western Hemisphere Travel 
Initiative, which will require individuals from the United States, 
Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean to present passports or other 
documents proving citizenship before entering the United States. I was 
pleased to join with Senator Stevens and many other colleagues from 
both bodies in pushing for inclusion of this important provision 
because it is clear that the Department of Homeland Security and the 
Department of State are not ready for a full rollout of the new 
passport checks next summer.

Muddled thinking, poor planning, and administrative hubris have 
plagued implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative. The 
Department of Homeland Security has rushed to implement the new 
passport checks before the necessary technology, infrastructure and 
training are in place at our border stations. If these critical 
features of the deployment are not in place when the new program 
starts, we will see severe delays at our border and law-abiding 
citizens from the United States, Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean will 
have great difficulty moving between our countries. Most importantly, a 
hasty implementation will undermine the intended goals of the program.

The massive backlogs in processing passport applications we saw 
earlier this year when the Departments of Homeland Security and State 
started to require passports for air travel is just a taste of the 
chaos that is likely when they start enforcing citizenship checks at 
our Nation's land and sea borders in January. There is another train 
wreck on the horizon if these Federal agencies continue pushing forward 
with full implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative 
before the necessary policies and procedures are in place to handle the 
surge in applications and the lengthy border crossing delays that are 
sure to come.

I appreciate the recognition by this Congress that premature 
implementation will recklessly risk the travel plans of millions of 
Americans and the economies of scores of U.S. States and communities. 
The Departments of Homeland Security and State have shown that they 
need more time to establish a set of rules and procedures that will do 
more than just shut our borders down to legitimate travel and trade.

Mr. President, there is one item that was in the Senate passed 
version of H.R. 2764, the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations 
bill, that the conferees agreed to address in the explanatory statement 
accompanying the amended bill that is Division J of the omnibus bill, 
relating to Uganda.

That language directs the Secretary of State to submit a report 
within 90 days detailing a strategy for substantially enhancing United 
States efforts to resolve the conflict between the Lord's Resistance 
Army and the Government of Uganda. The language specifies certain 
issues to be addressed in the strategy. It also indicates that


$5 million is provided to implement the strategy.

Due to an oversight, the $5 million was omitted from the funding 
table in the explanatory statement under the Economic Support Fund 
heading. However, it is the intent of the conferees that this amount in 
unallocated Economic Support Fund assistance be made available for this 
purpose.

Mr. President, I yield the floor. I see the Senator from Georgia is 
about to speak.