# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `b4534002b5faff03f74b8a5fd14decf5`
`Mr. FARR — 10 July 2009`

---


Mr. FARR. Thank you very much, Chairman Edwards, for yielding.

Madam Chairman, I just want to rise to speak on this bill, and I just 
want to say something following Congressman Young's points.

What I love about this committee, more than any other committee I 
have ever served on in the State legislature or here in Congress, I 
think it's the best listening committee I have ever been on. We listen 
to people, and what I call the felt needs, and we respond.

I think what we are so proud about is the fiscal year 2010 military 
construction and veterans spending bill responds to what we heard and 
addresses those issues. What I think is remarkably progressively 
happening in this country is that for the first time these two huge 
agencies, the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, are beginning to be seamless in a sense.

I mean, you can't be a veteran without going through the Department 
of Defense. And the new Secretary of Veterans Affairs Shinseki has said 
that the minute you enroll in the Department of Defense you are 
automatically enrolled in the Department of Veterans Affairs. So you 
are going to begin seeing this, rather than having these lost records 
and folders and everything that needs to be done, that it will be 
administratively clean.

What I also really appreciate about this committee that probably is 
not recognized is that we hear over and over again about the health 
care of our veterans. And I can't think of two more sensitive people 
than Chairman Edwards and Ranking Member Wamp and our colleague on the 
committee, Patrick Kennedy, that listened so profoundly to the needs of 
mental health care for veterans, not only those coming back with 
posttraumatic stress syndrome from Iraq and Afghanistan, but we have 
about 270,000 veterans that sleep on the streets of America.

That's the biggest embarrassment that this country has. We have not 
been that good at taking care of them. This budget puts $800 million 
more in mental health and does the outreach for homeless veterans.

I am very proud of that and would urge support of the legislation.