---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT OF 2009
## `b45529dfc9ea129efa17570f647b0c65`
`Mr. AKAKA — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I wish to make further comments on some of 
the concerns our speakers have had.

The sponsor of the amendment has stated his primary goal is to 
increase veteran eligibility for caregiver assistance. It appears, 
however, that the amendment could well have the opposite effect and 
deny caregiver assistance to many OEF/OIF veterans by significantly 
narrowing the eligibility criteria for caregiver assistance.

The amendment would add a provision that would require that in 
addition to sustaining a serious injury and requiring personal care, a 
veteran would have to be so helpless as to require institutional care 
if personal care services were not available. This proposed 
modification is problematic because not all veterans in need of 
caregiver assistance would be appropriate for, or in need of, 
institutional care.

To illustrate, consider the example suggested by the Wounded Warrior 
Project, one of the principal advocates for the caregiver legislation: 
A veteran who is recovering from severe wounds, suffers from PTSD and 
depression, and needs help with feeding, dressing, and getting to the 
bathroom, under the provisions in S. 1963 this veteran would


be eligible for caregiver assistance. However, since the veteran in 
this example would not necessarily benefit from or require 
institutional or residential care, the veteran would not be eligible 
for caregiver assistance under the changes proposed by the amendment. 
Given the veteran's co-occurring PTSD and depression, however, the VA's 
failure to provide that assistance could have a severe impact on the 
veteran's mental health and well-being. PTSD, one of the signature 
wounds of the current war, is a condition which many long-term 
institutional care settings and nursing homes are not prepared to 
handle or treat. As a result, the inclusion of this new eligibility 
condition would exclude many veterans in critical need of caregiver 
assistance.

There is another problem raised by the amendment's proposed expansion 
of the caregiver assistance to all veterans. By expanding eligibility 
for caregiver assistance to all severely injured veterans, the 
amendment would convert a manageable initiative targeted on the 
veterans of the current conflicts into a huge undertaking that would 
surely encounter many problems.

The reasoning behind initially administering services to a smaller 
pool allows for greater efficiency and the opportunity to improve 
before expanding such services to a larger universe of veterans.

I note that the Disabled American Veterans argues against the pending 
amendment because of its potential impact. DAV writes, and I quote:




 While the amendment proposed by Senator Coburn seeks to 


 extend caregiver services to veterans from all eras, its new 


 restrictive eligibility language could actually reduce the 


 number of severely wounded and disabled veterans returning 


 home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan eligible for such 


 services. For this and other reasons, DAV does not support 


 the Coburn amendment to S. 1963.


I ask unanimous consent that this letter be printed in the Record.