---
---

# None
## `b456abb1f2603bb49fe4f71c790c7106`
`Mr. PEARCE — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. Mr. Speaker, we must utilize every resource available 
while fighting the Global War on Terror. Currently, we are fighting two 
major combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan which are critical to 
implementing democracy and peace throughout the Middle East. In both 
these areas we have a common enemy that continues to increase its 
forces. Recent reports have shown that Iran is supplying arms to both 
the terrorists in Iraq and the Taliban in Afghanistan.

Every night on the news we see the price we pay in a two front war 
against a sinister and studious enemy. It is difficult enough to fight 
an insurgency inspired by hatred, let alone an enemy supported by a 
sovereign nation such as Iran.

Reports of Iranian weapons and funds surfacing both in Iraq and 
Afghanistan are indicators that Iran is willing to use other countries 
to attack American interests without having to sacrifice their own sons 
and daughters. We are fighting a cowardly enemy which uses others to do 
its dirty work for them. This is state sponsored terrorism and we must 
take steps to cut off the resources they use to fund our enemies.

In addition, under the guise of energy development, Iran continues a 
program that puts them closer and closer to developing weapons grade 
plutonium. I have severe reservations allowing this program continue 
until Iranian President Ahmadinejad can unequivocally prove that he 
does not have intentions of someday creating and using a nuclear 
warhead against the United States, Israel, Europe or other Allies.

This legislation is crucial in the Global War on Terror because it is 
a tangible indicator to Iran, and all other nations which harbor or 
sponsor terrorist tactics in any form, that we will not allow the 
violence to escalate any further. By preventing the sale of F-14s in 
whole or part to Iran we will be cutting off the supply of arms that 
may someday be used to kill American soldiers.



I congratulate my colleague and Congressional neighbor from Arizona 
for her hard work and dedication to this issue. It is important for our 
safety as a country, as well as the world's freedom from terrorism, 
that we cut off the supply of F-14 parts to Iran. I call to my friends 
on both sides of the aisle for overwhelming bipartisan support of this 
legislation.