---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `b45a46ffe140f47b5451d8ab33f0b446`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. On March 5, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton 
''applaud[ed] the decision by the people of the Czech Republic and 
their government--as well as the people and Government of Poland--for 
proceeding with missile defense on their soil.'' That was just in March 
of this year. The United States should honor this commitment by 
proceeding with the missile defense deployment as planned and not be 
affected by Russia's unfounded objections. I remain baffled by their 
objections, other than, perhaps, this is a way they think they can 
extract concessions from the United States as a bargaining chip.

As the CBO study referenced above makes clear:




 Only the Polish and Czech deployments can protect the 


 United States and Europe. Any other option costs more and 


 defends the U.S. less, if at all.


I ask my colleagues to support this message. It will be good for our 
country to be clear on this question and for Congress to speak up.

I express a concern about what has happened in this budget to 
national missile defense. It represents a major reduction in spending 
for missile defense. We intend to deploy 44 missiles in Alaska. The 
budget proposes, I believe, now just 30. It was proposed and part of 
the agenda for the last number of years to place a multikill vehicle on 
top of these interceptors so it could take out dummies and decoys and 
multiple missiles. That was zeroed out, ended in this budget. For a 
number of years, we have been funding research and development of the 
kinetic energy interceptor. That is a high-speed system that can take 
out missiles in the launch phase, which is the best phase to do so. 
That was zeroed out. There was the airborne laser which has the 
capability of shooting down missiles in their launch phase when they 
have so much heat coming out of them. It is funded for 1 more year, and 
it will be ended, apparently. Of course, now the 10 interceptors in 
Europe are in question.

We need to be sure we understand how seriously we are impacting the 
long-term strategy of the United States. We have spent $20 billion to 
develop a system that will actually work at incredible rates of speed, 
with hit-to-kill technology to knock down an incoming missile. After 
all of these investments and all these years, for $1 billion we could 
complete the program. We are saving about $150, $200 million this year 
that would have kept us on track. Maybe we can keep the system going 
forward. I hope so with this resolution and some other things.

But the American people need to know that we are not talking about a 
minor retrenchment of national missile defense in the budget that has 
come forward out of our committee. It represents the biggest reduction 
of missile defense funding during my time in the Senate, over 12 years.

I hope that as the months go along we will be able to reevaluate what 
we are doing and make sure we don't abandon the progress we have made 
and take full advantage of decades of research and development that has 
produced a system that will work to protect us.

I yield the floor.















[July 15, 2009]
















 Exhibit 1


An Open Letter to the Obama Administration from Central and Eastern 
















 Europe

 (By Valdas Adamkus, Martin Butora, Emil Constantinescu, Pavol Demes, 
Lubos Dobrovsky, Matyas Eorsi, Istvan Gyarmati, Vaclav Havel, Rastislav 


Kacer, Sandra Kalniete, Karel Schwarzenberg, Michal Kovac, Ivan 
Krastev, Alexander Kwasniewski, Mart Laar, Kadri Liik, Janos Martonyi, 

 Janusz Onyszkiewicz, Adam Rotfeld, Vaira Vike-Freiberga, Alexandr 













Vondra, Lech Walesa)




 We have written this letter because, as Central and Eastern 


 European (CEE) intellectuals and former policymakers, we care 


 deeply about the future of the transatlantic relationship as 


 well as the future quality of relations between the United 


 States and the countries of our region. We write in our 


 personal capacity as individuals who are friends and allies 


 of the United States as well as committed Europeans.



 Our nations are deeply indebted to the United States. Many 


 of us know firsthand how important your support for our 


 freedom and independence was during the dark Cold War years. 


 U.S. engagement and support was essential for the success of 


 our democratic transitions after the Iron Curtain fell twenty 


 years ago. Without Washington's vision and leadership, it is 


 doubtful that we would be in NATO and even the EU today.



 We have worked to reciprocate and make this relationship a 


 two-way street. We are Atlanticist voices within NATO and the 


 EU. Our nations have been engaged alongside the United States 


 in the Balkans, Iraq, and today in Afghanistan. While our 


 contribution may at times seem modest compared to your own, 


 it is significant when measured as a percentage of our 


 population and GDP. Having benefited from your support for 


 liberal democracy and liberal values in the past, we have 


 been among your strongest supporters when it comes to 


 promoting democracy and human rights around the world.



 Twenty years after the end of the Cold War, however, we see 


 that Central and Eastern European countries are no longer at 


 the heart of American foreign policy. As the new Obama 


 Administration sets its foreign-policy priorities, our region 


 is one part of the




 world that Americans have largely stopped worrying about. 


 Indeed, at times we have the impression that U.S. policy was 


 so successful that many American officials have now concluded 


 that our region is fixed once and for all and that they could 


 ''check the box'' and move on to other more pressing 


 strategic issues. Relations have been so close that many on 


 both sides assume that the region's transatlantic 


 orientation, as well as its stability and prosperity, would 


 last forever.



 That view is premature. All is not well either in our 


 region or in the transatlantic relationship. Central and 


 Eastern Europe are at a political crossroads and today there 


 is a growing sense of nervousness in the region. The global 


 economic crisis is impacting on our region and, as elsewhere, 


 runs the risk that our societies will look inward and be less 


 engaged with the outside world. At the same time, storm 


 clouds are starting to gather on the foreign policy horizon. 


 Like you, we await the results of the EU Commission's 


 investigation on the origins of the Russo-Georgian war. But 


 the political impact of that war on the region has already 


 been felt. Many countries were deeply disturbed to see the 


 Atlantic alliance stand by as Russia violated the core 


 principles of the Helsinki Final Act, the Charter of Paris, 


 and the territorial integrity of a country that was a member 


 of NATO's Partnership for Peace and the Euroatlantic 


 Partnership Council--all in the name of defending a sphere of 


 influence on its borders.



 Despite the efforts and significant contribution of the new 


 members, NATO today seems weaker than when we joined. In many 


 of our countries it is perceived as less and less relevant--


 and we feel it. Although we are full members, people question 


 whether NATO would be willing and able to come to our defense 


 in some future crises. Europe's dependence on Russian energy 


 also creates concern about the cohesion of the Alliance. 


 President Obama's remark at the recent NATO summit on the 


 need to provide credible defense plans for all Alliance 


 members was welcome, but not sufficient to allay fears about 


 the Alliance's defense readiness. Our ability to continue to 


 sustain public support at home for our contributions to 


 Alliance missions abroad also depends on us being able to 


 show that our own security concerns are being addressed in 


 NATO and close cooperation with the United States.



 We must also recognize that America's popularity and 


 influence have fallen in many of our countries as well.



 Public opinions polls, including the German Marshall Fund's 


 own Transatlantic Trends survey, show that our region has not 


 been immune to the wave of criticism and anti-Americanism 


 that has swept Europe in recent years and which led to a 


 collapse in sympathy and support for the United States during 


 the Bush years. Some leaders in the region have paid a 


 political price for their support of the unpopular war in 


 Iraq. In the future they may be more careful in taking 


 political risks to support the United States. We believe that 


 the onset of a new Administration has created a new opening 


 to reverse this trend but it will take time and work on both 


 sides to make up for what we have lost.



 In many ways the EU has become the major factor and 


 institution in our lives. To many people it seems more 


 relevant and important today than the link to the United 


 States. To some degree it is a logical outcome of the 


 integration of Central and Eastern Europe into the EU. Our 


 leaders and officials spend much more time in EU meetings 


 than in consultations with Washington, where they often 


 struggle to attract attention or make our voices heard. The 


 region's deeper integration in the EU is of course welcome 


 and should not necessarily lead to a weakening of the 


 transatlantic relationship. The hope was that integration of 


 Central and Eastern Europe into the EU would actually 


 strengthen the strategic cooperation between Europe and 


 America.



 However, there is a danger that instead of being a pro-


 Atlantic voice in the EU, support for a more global 


 partnership with Washington in the region might wane over 


 time. The region does not have the tradition of assuming a 


 more global role. Some items on the transatlantic agenda, 


 such as climate change, do not resonate in the Central and 


 Eastern European publics to the same extent as they do in 


 Western Europe.



 Leadership change is also coming in Central and Eastern 


 Europe. Next to those, there are fewer and fewer leaders who 


 emerged from the revolutions of 1989 who experienced 


 Washington's key role in securing our democratic transition 


 and anchoring our countries in NATO and EU. A new generation 


 of leaders is emerging who do not have these memories and 


 follow a more ''realistic'' policy. At the same time, the 


 former Communist elites, whose insistence on political and 


 economic power significantly contributed to the crises in 


 many CEE countries, gradually disappear from the political 


 scene. The current political and economic turmoil and the 


 fallout from the global economic crisis provide additional 


 opportunities for the forces of nationalism, extremism, 


 populism, and anti-Semitism across the continent but also in 


 some of our countries.



 This means that the United States is likely to lose many of 


 its traditional interlocutors in the region. The new elites 


 replacing them may not share the idealism--or have the same 


 relationship to the United States--as the generation who led 


 the democratic transition. They may be more calculating in 


 their support of the United States as well as more parochial 


 in their world view. And in Washington a similar transition 


 is taking place as many of the leaders and personalities we 


 have worked with and relied on are also leaving politics.



 And then there is the issue of how to deal with Russia. Our 


 hopes that relations with Russia would improve and that 


 Moscow would finally fully accept our complete sovereignty 


 and independence after joining NATO and the EU have not been 


 fulfilled. Instead, Russia is back as a revisionist power 


 pursuing a 19th-century agenda with 21st-century tactics and 


 methods. At a global level, Russia has become, on most 


 issues, a status-quo power. But at a regional level and vis-


 a-vis our nations, it increasingly acts as a revisionist one. 


 It challenges our claims to our own historical experiences. 


 It asserts a privileged position in determining our security 


 choices. It uses overt and covert means of economic warfare, 


 ranging from energy blockades and politically motivated 


 investments to bribery and media manipulation in order to 


 advance its interests and to challenge the transatlantic 


 orientation of Central and Eastern Europe.



 We welcome the ''reset'' of the American-Russian relations. 


 As the countries living closest to Russia, obviously nobody 


 has a greater interest in the development of the democracy in 


 Russia and better relations between Moscow and the West than 


 we do. But there is also nervousness in our capitals. We want 


 to ensure that too narrow an understanding of Western 


 interests does not lead to the wrong concessions to Russia. 


 Today the concern is, for example, that the United States and 


 the major European powers might embrace the Medvedev plan for 


 a ''Concert of Powers'' to replace the continent's existing, 


 value-based security structure. The danger is that Russia's 


 creeping intimidation and influence-peddling in the region 


 could over time lead to a de facto neutralization of the 


 region. There are differing views within the region when it 


 comes to Moscow's new policies. But there is a shared view 


 that the full engagement of the United States is needed.



 Many in the region are looking with hope to the Obama 


 Administration to restore the Atlantic relationship as a 


 moral compass for their domestic as well as foreign policies. 


 A strong commitment to common liberal democratic values is 


 essential to our countries. We know from our own historical 


 experience the difference between when the United States 


 stood up for its liberal democratic values and when it did 


 not. Our region suffered when the United States succumbed to 


 ''realism'' at Yalta. And it benefited when the United 


 States used its power to fight for principle. That was 


 critical during the Cold War and in opening the doors of 


 NATO. Had a ''realist'' view prevailed in the early 1990s, 


 we would not be in NATO today and the idea of a Europe 


 whole, free, and at peace would be a distant dream.



 We understand the heavy demands on your Administration and 


 on U.S. foreign policy. It is not our intent to add to the 


 list of problems you face. Rather, we want to help by being 


 strong Atlanticist allies in a U.S.-European partnership that 


 is a powerful force for good around the world. But we are not 


 certain where our region will be in five or ten years time 


 given the domestic and foreign policy uncertainties we face. 


 We need to take the right steps now to ensure the strong 


 relationship between the United States and Central and 


 Eastern Europe over the past twenty years will endure.



 We believe this is a time both the United States and Europe 


 need to reinvest in the transatlantic relationship. We also 


 believe this is a time when the United States and Central and 


 Eastern Europe must reconnect around a new and forward-


 looking agenda. While recognizing what has been achieved in 


 the twenty years since the fall of the Iron Curtain, it is 


 time to set a new agenda for close cooperation for the next 


 twenty years across the Atlantic.



 Therefore, we propose the following steps:



 First, we are convinced that America needs Europe and that 


 Europe needs the United States as much today as in the past. 


 The United States should reaffirm its vocation as a European 


 power and make clear that it plans to stay fully engaged on 


 the continent even while it faces the pressing challenges in 


 Afghanistan and Pakistan, the wider Middle East, and Asia. 


 For our part we must work at home in our own countries and in 


 Europe more generally to convince our leaders and societies 


 to adopt a more global perspective and be prepared to 


 shoulder more responsibility in partnership with the United 


 States.



 Second, we need a renaissance of NATO as the most important 


 security link between the United States and Europe. It is the 


 only credible hard power security guarantee we have. NATO 


 must reconfirm its core function of collective defense even 


 while we adapt to the new threats of the 21st century. A key 


 factor in our ability to participate in NATO's expeditionary 


 missions overseas is the belief that we are secure at home. 


 We must therefore correct some self-inflicted wounds from the 


 past. It was a mistake not to commence with proper Article 5 


 defense planning for new members after NATO was enlarged. 


 NATO needs to make the Alliance's commitments credible and 


 provide strategic reassurance to all members. This should 


 include contingency planning, prepositioning of forces, 


 equipment, and supplies for reinforcement in our region in 


 case of crisis as originally envisioned in the NATO-Russia 


 Founding Act.



 We should also re-think the working of the NATO-Russia 


 Council and return to the practice where NATO member 


 countries enter




 into dialogue with Moscow with a coordinated position. When 


 it comes to Russia, our experience has been that a more 


 determined and principled policy toward Moscow will not only 


 strengthen the West's security but will ultimately lead 


 Moscow to follow a more cooperative policy as well. 


 Furthermore, the more secure we feel inside NATO, the easier 


 it will also be for our countries to reach out to engage 


 Moscow on issues of common interest. That is the dual track 


 approach we need and which should be reflected in the new 


 NATO strategic concept.



 Third, the thorniest issue may well be America's planned 


 missile-defense installations. Here too, there are different 


 views in the region, including among our publics which are 


 divided. Regardless of the military merits of this scheme and 


 what Washington eventually decides to do, the issue has 


 nevertheless also become--at least in some countries--a 


 symbol of America's credibility and commitment to the region. 


 How it is handled could have a significant impact on their 


 future transatlantic orientation. The small number of 


 missiles involved cannot be a threat to Russia's strategic 


 capabilities, and the Kremlin knows this. We should decide 


 the future of the program as allies and based on the 


 strategic plusses and minuses of the different technical and 


 political configurations. The Alliance should not allow the 


 issue to be determined by unfounded Russian opposition. 


 Abandoning the program entirely or involving Russia too 


 deeply in it without consulting Poland or the Czech Republic 


 can undermine the credibility of the United States across the 


 whole region.



 Fourth, we know that NATO alone is not enough. We also want 


 and need more Europe and a better and more strategic U.S.-EU 


 relationship as well. Increasingly our foreign policies are 


 carried out through the European Union--and we support that. 


 We also want a common European foreign and defense policy 


 that is open to close cooperation with the United States. We 


 are the advocates of such a line in the EU. But we need the 


 United States to rethink its attitude toward the EU and 


 engage it much more seriously as a strategic partner. We need 


 to bring NATO and the EU closer together and make them work 


 in tandem. We need common NATO and EU strategies not only 


 toward Russia but on a range of other new strategic 


 challenges.



 Fifth is energy security. The threat to energy supplies can 


 exert an immediate influence on our nations' political 


 sovereignty also as allies contributing to common decisions 


 in NATO. That is why it must also become a transatlantic 


 priority. Although most of the responsibility for energy 


 security lies within the realm of the EU, the United States 


 also has a role to play. Absent American support, the Baku-


 Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline would never have been built. Energy 


 security must become an integral part of U.S.-European 


 strategic cooperation. Central and Eastern European countries 


 should lobby harder (and with more unity) inside Europe for 


 diversification of the energy mix, suppliers, and transit 


 routes, as well as for tough legal scrutiny of Russia's abuse 


 of its monopoly and cartel-like power inside the EU. But 


 American political support on this will play a crucial role. 


 Similarly, the United States can play an important role in 


 solidifying further its support for the Nabucco pipeline, 


 particularly in using its security relationship with the main 


 transit country, Turkey, as well as the North-South 


 interconnector of Central Europe and LNG terminals in our 


 region.



 Sixth, we must not neglect the human factor. Our next 


 generations need to get to know each other, too. We have to 


 cherish and protect the multitude of educational, 


 professional, and other networks and friendships that 


 underpin our friendship and alliance. The U.S. visa regime 


 remains an obstacle in this regard. It is absurd that Poland 


 and Romania--arguably the two biggest and most pro-American 


 states in the CEE region, which are making substantial 


 contributions in Iraq and Afghanistan--have not yet been 


 brought into the visa waiver program. It is incomprehensible 


 that a critic like the French anti-globalization activist 


 Jose Bove does not require a visa for the United States but 


 former Solidarity activist and Nobel Peace prizewinner Lech 


 Walesa does. This issue will be resolved only if it is made a 


 political priority by the President of the United States.



 The steps we made together since 1989 are not minor in 


 history. The common successes are the proper foundation for 


 the transatlantic renaissance we need today. This is why we 


 believe that we should also consider the creation of a Legacy 


 Fellowship for young leaders. Twenty years have passed since 


 the revolutions of 1989. That is a whole generation. We need 


 a new generation to renew the transatlantic partnership. A 


 new program should be launched to identify those young 


 leaders on both sides of the Atlantic who can carry forward 


 the transatlantic project we have spent the last two decades 


 building in Central and Eastern Europe.



 In conclusion, the onset of a new Administration in the 


 United States has raised great hopes in our countries for a 


 transatlantic renewal. It is an opportunity we dare not miss. 


 We, the authors of this letter, know firsthand how important 


 the relationship with the United States has been. In the 


 1990s, a large part of getting Europe right was about getting 


 Central and Eastern Europe right. The engagement of the 


 United States was critical to locking in peace and stability 


 from the Baltics to the Black Sea. Today the goal must be to 


 keep Central and Eastern Europe right as a stable, activist, 


 and Atlanticist part of our broader community.



 That is the key to our success in bringing about the 


 renaissance in the Alliance the Obama Administration has 


 committed itself to work for and which we support. That will 


 require both sides recommitting to and investing in this 


 relationship. But if we do it right, the pay off down the 


 road can be very real. By taking the right steps now, we can 


 put it on new and solid footing for the future.
