---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `b45f4ae9d2350831ecdab5478994570f`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Speaker, just today, while debating this new Iraq withdrawal 
bill, reports continue to surface that al Qaeda is now restructuring 
its power.

Like several other recent actions on the part of Democrats recently, 
this bill communicates to jihadist enemies that we are weakening and 
confirms their belief that they have a critical advantage over free 
people in the world because their will is far stronger than ours and 
they need only to persevere to break our resolve.

Osama bin Laden himself has stated, ''The whole world is watching 
this war and the two adversaries. It's either victory and glory, or 
misery and humiliation.''

Mr. Speaker, if Democrats continue to insist that the war in Iraq has 
nothing to do with the war on terrorism, then I wish they would explain 
that to the terrorists because they still don't understand, and they 
are continuing to be fundamentally committed to the destruction of the 
Western world and to killing us wherever they find us.

Mr. Speaker, the premise behind this bill is that we can have peace 
tomorrow so long as we are willing to surrender today. Unfortunately, 
with jihadist terrorism, just the opposite is true. If we surrender to 
terrorism today, it will only bring greater horror and suffering to all 
of humanity tomorrow.

So vital questions arise to those who would continue to demand that 
we surrender Iraq to terrorists. Are they also willing to allow the 
citizens and families of this Nation to face jihad and what may become 
a nuclear jihad here at home? And what will we tell our children when 
that day comes?

Mr. Speaker, defeating radical jihad in Iraq and throughout the world 
will require the support, perseverance, patience, wisdom and prayers of 
the American people. But for the sake of those people and for our 
children, for our future generation and for people across the world who 
still hope for freedom, I pray that the Members of this body would heed 
that warning echoing down through history.

There is no substitute for victory.