---
---

# FURTHER CHANGES TO S. CON. RES. 21
## `b45f2d5535289694208d51c31fa98c4d`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. I yield myself 7 minutes, and I ask the Chair to remind 
me when there is 1 minute left.

Mr. President, I think this debate over the course of the day has 
been enormously constructive. I think the American people have been 
watching it, and they have a much clearer idea about the alternatives 
that are before us. They should know by this time that when all is said 
and done, this program, the SCHIP program, was fashioned to try to look 
after the working poor, recognizing that Medicaid dealt with the very 
poor but that the working poor were finding increasing pressure and 
were, in increasing numbers, unable to get any kind of health 
insurance. That was basically the targeted area.

As we reviewed earlier in the course of the discussion, this was 
basically a State-run program. Using the private sector, it has 
guidelines as to what the health care coverage should be in various 
areas, but the States make those judgments and decisions--quite a bit 
different from Medicaid. So the origin of it, having listened to some 
of this debate, it is important to note this is very different from 
other kinds of Federal programs but not greatly dissimilar from what 
the President has indicated that he supported in the prescription drug 
program. It was initially using the cigarette tax money that was a part 
of the settlement earlier, where we were using it, and therefore the 
relationship with the increase in the cigarette tax at the present 
time.

Now, Mr. President, I only have a few minutes here, and we have gone 
through these charts about how this is covering 6 million and we expect 
that to go to 10 million. We have also reviewed the fact that when we 
look at the comparison with adults and children, we can see under this 
program that uncovered children have gone down dramatically and the 
adults have gone up. So this has been an extraordinary success. CBO has 
indicated this is the best way. If we are interested in covering 
children, CBO has indicated this is the way.

The point I wish to make in the time I have remaining is that when 
all is said and done, when we vote--and we are going to vote in just a 
little while--the American families ought to realize a very important 
fact; that is, every single Member of the Senate, with the exception of 
one, has comprehensive health care and our children are all covered. 
Understand that, America? All of our children are covered. All of our 
children are covered. The next thing to know, Mr. And Mrs. America, 
your taxpayer money is paying for 72 percent of our health care 
coverage cost. Do we understand that now?

For those who are saying: Well, I am not going to support this 
because it costs too much; I am not going to support this because it 
may be 300 percent of poverty, we get paid $160,000. We are well above 
the 200, the 300, the 400 percent of poverty level. Yet we are going to 
have Members on the floor of the Senate this afternoon who are going to 
turn thumbs down to American families who are watching this debate and 
knowing that our premiums, our health insurance is being paid for by 
the American taxpayers. I wonder how people do that. I wonder how they 
do it. You would think, if they are so offended about Federal 
Government spending or a Federal Government program, they wouldn't use 
it themselves. But, no, they do. They will take it. But when it comes 
to looking out for working families, there are going to be many in this 
Chamber who will say: No, we are not going to look out for working 
families. You can go ahead and pay for mine--I get my children 
covered--but we don't think the Federal Government ought to be 
tampering with this issue. We don't think the Federal Government ought 
to be looking into whether it is going to have a program to provide 
coverage for the sons and daughters of working families who cannot 
afford a $10,000 health insurance program that would cover themselves 
and their families although the taxpayers are paying for ours.

Mr. President, this is extraordinary hypocrisy we are about to see 
here on the floor of the Senate. How can people in good faith do this 
and still accept the Federal Government help? How can they be 
complaining all afternoon about a Federal Government program and then 
have a better Federal program paying for their own--paying for their 
own. It is just hypocrisy of the greatest sort, and I think that is 
something that is important.

The most important point has been mentioned eloquently by many of my 
colleagues; that is, the importance of covering those children. The 
most important point is that too many parents will cry themselves to 
sleep tonight wondering whether their child is $200 sick because they 
may have to go to the emergency room. That is the heart of this.

Before we all get worked up, Mr. President, it is important to note 
what the financial bottom line on this is too. What has been pointed 
out over the course of the past days, again, is the question of 
priorities. We see in this chart here what we are talking about--
priorities. That is what this vote is. Do we want to say we can cover, 
for 1 day in Iraq at a cost of $300 million, 246,000 children; for 1 
week in Iraq at $2.5 billion, 1.7 million children; or for 41 days at a 
cost of $12.2 billion, 10 million kids?