# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `b4600e5df628284ed6a87db7ee1159ab`
`Mr. SANDERS â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, the amendment the majority leader and I 
are offering today is the first step in our effort this Congress to 
undo a fundamental unfairness that affects over 300,000 disabled 
veterans in this country who also happen to be military retirees. In 
short, this amendment creates a reserve fund that will allow this 
Congress to once and for all eliminate the offset that exists between 
military retiree pay and VA disability benefits.

At a time when we have men and women in harm's way in Iraq, 
Afghanistan and in other locations around the globe, it is appropriate 
that the budget resolution we pass out of the United States Senate 
acknowledge and seriously address the unmet needs of our Nation's 
veterans.

It is wrong that our veterans are enduring long waiting lines to 
receive health care from the VA due to inadequate funding. It is wrong 
that the Bush administration slammed the doors of the VA health care 
system on hundreds of thousands of so-called ''higher income'' 
veterans--veterans who in reality make as little as $28,000 a year. And 
it is wrong for this administration to try to impose higher copayments 
and enrollment fees on our veterans. As someone who sits on both the 
Budget Committee and the Veterans Affairs Committee, I am incredibly 
proud that on all these issues, this budget resolution is on the side 
of veterans and rejects administration proposals that short-change and 
nickel and dime those who have served.

The scandal at Walter Reed has highlighted that even here in 
Washington, only a short distance from this chamber, some of our 
servicemembers were living in sub-standard conditions with moldy walls, 
rodents, and holes in the ceilings. Thankfully, this budget resolution 
also addresses this outrage.

In addition, this budget resolution also provides for substantial, 
new investments in mental health services for our veterans to help us 
treat the thousands of veterans returning from the Iraq War with Post 
Traumatic Stress Disorder, PTSD. Also this budget resolution recognizes 
that we need to significantly increase funding to treat the large 
number of servicemembers returning with traumatic brain injury.

Finally, this budget resolution includes an amendment I added in 
committee that will allow us to make other important improvements to 
veterans' programs later this year. In short, the budget resolution we 
are considering is a huge step in the right direction when it comes to 
veterans' health care and benefits. Chairman Conrad and his staff 
deserve tremendous credit for recognizing the very serious needs of our 
veterans and moving boldly to address them. I also want to commend 
Chairman Akaka of the Veterans' Affairs Committee and his staff for 
their work and support throughout this budget process.

Even with the tremendous strides forward we have made for veterans in 
this budget resolution there is one additional issue that needs to be 
addressed. Today, Senator Reid and I are offering this amendment to 
take care of that very important issue. Before getting into the details 
first let me start off by saying that I am honored to be working with 
the majority leader on this issue. I know that, year after year, he has 
been the leading voice in the Senate to eliminate the Disabled Veterans 
Tax. And today, he continues that leadership with this amendment.

This amendment would create a reserve fund to allow for the 
elimination of the remaining offset between military retiree pay and VA 
disability payments. In my view, this is an issue of basic fairness. 
Military retirees earned their retiree pay based on their long-term 
service to the Nation. They earn their VA disability benefits based on 
the disability they acquire or aggravate in the service of their 
country.

The current offset between these separately-earned benefits 
originates from a 19th century law that required a dollar-for-dollar 
offset of military retired pay for VA disability compensation. In my 
view and the view of millions of veterans across the country, it is 
clear that veterans deserve to receive both their military retirement 
which they receive for their service and their VA disability payments 
as additional compensation for the injuries and lost earning power due 
to their service-connected disabilities.

Let me provide just a bit of background on some of the progress 
Congress has made on this issue in recent years, thanks in large part 
to the work of Senator Reid. In the fiscal year 2003 Department of 
Defense Authorization, Congress created a special benefit called 
''combat-related special compensation'' or CRSC. It expanded it in the 
fiscal year 2004 DoD Authorization. CRSC gives certain combat disabled 
veterans a cash benefit equivalent to what they would receive if full 
concurrent receipt were allowed.

In the fiscal year 2004 DoD Authorization bill, Congress approved 
phasing-in concurrent receipt for military retirees rated as at least 
50 percent disabled. The fiscal year 2005 DoD Authorization ended the 
phase in for 100 percent disabled veterans.

So, today we find ourselves in a situation where retirees who are 
less than 50 percent disabled are getting no relief from the Disabled 
Veterans Tax and veterans at least 50 percent disabled but less than 
100 percent disabled are in the middle of the phase period that will 
not be complete until 2014. Frankly, if Congress has made the 
determination that the ban on concurrent receipt of military retiree 
pay and VA disability compensation is wrong--and I think the 
legislation passed so far demonstrates that Congress has made that 
determination--there is no excuse for making veterans wait for the 
benefits that we have acknowledged they are due. Now is the time--once 
and for all--we need to eliminate the disabled veterans tax.

The Reid-Sanders amendment is just one important step we need to take 
to


keep faith to the promises we made to our veterans. I look forward to 
working with the majority leader on this issue as it moves through the 
legislative process and I would ask that my colleagues to support this 
amendment.