# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b4611fbc82276cafa2c19f85a22ea827`
`Mr. INGLIS of South Carolina — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. INGLIS of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, I wish to address three 
questions here on the floor today: Where are we? Where do we want to 
be? How do we get there?

First, where are we? We're in phase 3 of a conflict in Iraq. In Phase 
1 we overran Iraq in response to an American national security threat. 
We won.

Then came Phase 2. We were forwardly deployed; the terrorists brought 
the fight to us; we busted up terrorist networks; America was protected 
from further attacks. We won.

Now comes Phase 3. At best, Iraq is engulfed in a sectarian killing 
spree. At worst, Iraq has descended into a civil war.

So where are we? We're thankful for the incredible work of our 
military in winning Phase 1 and 2. We're aware--and I think all of us 
are aware--that only the Iraqi people can win Phase 3. We're united in 
imploring the Iraqi people to choose order over chaos; pluralism over 
theocracy; and freedom over authoritarianism. As we had the help of the 
French, the Iraqis have had the help the United States.

But just as it was only American patriots who could decide the future 
of our country, only Iraqi patriots can decide the future of their 
country. It is a neo-con mistake to charge our war fighters with 
building an Iraqi national consensus. Iraqis must decide for themselves 
if they want to live in a unified, peaceful and pluralistic Iraq. No 
amount of American military might can compel that result.

So where are we? Thankful for success in the outcomes that we could 
control; aware of the outcomes that we cannot control.

Where do we want to be? We want the Iraqis to take responsibility for 
their own country. The President is wisely pressing them to do so. We 
want the Iraqi leadership to make some key political decisions that 
could bring reconciliation. We want them to divide up the oil fairly, 
to allow banned Baathists back into positions of public trust and to 
develop a working model of pluralism.

We want the Iraqi leadership to know that they don't have forever, 
that they should settle these reconciliation questions quickly. We want 
them to know that we are not content to provide an overall security 
umbrella for their country while they dispatch death squads to kill 
their enemies and improve their sectarian positions. We want them to 
know that we're reaching for the button that would lower that umbrella. 
And we want to avoid the error of nation building.

The job of the U.S. military is to crush, kill and destroy the 
enemies of the United States. They are not nation builders; they are 
warriors. And they do their jobs very, very well. As commanded, our 
military entered Iraq to destroy what we understandably believed were 
threats to our national security.

We were successful in destroying those threats and thereafter in 
interrupting terrorist networks. Those were outcomes that we could 
control.

Now we are rightly asked for inputs that we can control but we are 
faced with outcomes that only the Iraqi people can control. It is right 
to evaluate the quality of our forces' inputs, but wrong to hold them 
accountable for outcomes beyond their control. Diplomats, statesmen, 
peacemakers and everyday Iraqis must work with us to develop a path to 
progress--a path that has milestones along the way and which has 
rewards for meeting those milestones and consequences for failure. Our 
military must help plan the path because they are the most stable and 
trustworthy institution on the ground in Iraq and because they are 
experts at planning and logistics.

Since our military is in control of the ''planning'' input, they will 
rightly be evaluated on the basis of the quality of that planning. 
Because they are the most trained and capable force in the world, our 
military must also continue to provide protection for the 
decisionmakers as they plan the path to progress. The quality of that 
protection is an input that will rightly be evaluated.

Because they are experts at discipline and structure, our military 
must help define the agreed-upon milestones, the rewards for meeting 
those milestones and the consequences for missing them. The quality of 
those inputs will rightly be evaluated.

Because they are capable, our military must provide strength for the 
first steps on the path. The quality of that strength and the 
capabilities with which it is delivered will rightly be evaluated.

Having well supplied those inputs, the American military will leave 
Iraq successful--in Phase 1, 2 and 3. If the Iraqi people follow the 
path to progress to a peaceful, pluralist and unified Iraq, they will 
have been successful. The path may lead to something less.

Any lesser outcome is the responsibility of the Iraqi people. So we 
want a path to progress, and we hope for the blessings of liberty for 
Iraq.

Now. how do we get there? The President has ordered an increase in 
troop strength in Iraq. He thinks a surge in troops will give breathing 
room for the development of a path to progress.

I'm concerned that a surge will have the opposite effect--that it 
will give breathing room to the death squads, that our service men and 
women will be caught in the crossfire and that the surge will end right 
where it began. In fact, that's what happened in Baghdad in August and 
September of 2006.

I'm concerned that a surge sends a conflicting message. On the one 
hand we're telling them, ''You don't have forever; you've got to make 
progress in solving these political questions; you've got to stop 
legging up on your enemies; it's your country.'' By surging, we may be 
saying, ''Not to worry, we're increasing the size of that American 
security umbrella; there's no urgency; we're here to stay; in fact, 
more of us are coming.''

I want all Iraqi factions and leaders of factions to worry. I want 
them to see us reaching for the button that would bring that umbrella 
down. I want them to imagine the click of that button and the feel of 
the wind from the descending umbrella.

The resolution before us isn't written the way I would have written 
it, but it's the resolution before us. Resolutions are the way that 
Congress discharges its constitutional responsibility to communicate 
with the President. This resolution says, ''We disapprove of the 
surge.''

Parties on both sides have added additional and conflicting meaning 
to those words. In the end, I just have to vote on the basis of the 
words. That's why I'm going to vote in favor of the resolution and 
express my concern about the effectiveness of the surge.

Unlike many others who will vote for this resolution, I will not 
follow it with a vote to cut off funding. Nor will I follow it with a 
vote to withdraw immediately. Both of those actions would be mistaken.

Some will say that I am too impatient and insistent for decisions 
from the Iraqi leadership. It's true that it took us nearly 100 years 
to figure out that slavery was antithetical to freedom. It took us even 
longer to figure out that women should have the right to vote.

But as I had the opportunity to say to one of Prime Minister Maliki's 
advisors in Baghdad in August, it is our right as Iraq's protector and 
our obligation to our servicemen and women to insist on a timetable for 
these decisions. I've only been to Iraq twice. Both times I found that 
the hardest thing was leaving.

While there, surrounded by America's best, I had the sense that I was 
at ground zero of mission and purpose. The Americans serving in Iraq 
are the most impressive people in the


world. Everyone of them is a volunteer. Everyone of them, everyone of 
their predecessors and everyone of their non-deployed comrades has 
offered his or her life in preservation of our lives.

America's best deserve our best--our clearest thinking, our freshest 
analysis, our steadfast devotion. Forget the political consequences; 
protect no one's ''legacy;'' don't worry about ''saving face;'' make 
sound decisions; take decisive action. Tell them what their mission is. 
Discharge the Constitutional responsibility of the Congress. Give them 
a clear description of the inputs we expect from them. Evaluate them on 
the quality of those inputs but don't hold them accountable for 
outcomes they cannot control.

Ask them to do accomplishable things. Don't ask them to do the 
impossible.

No amount of force can cause someone to choose freedom, and freedom 
cannot be given--it must be earned. We have provided the conditions 
under which freedom can take root. Iraqis must nurture the seed and 
water it with their own sweat and blood.

If they do so, Iraq will enjoy the blessings of liberty. If they 
don't, our military will nevertheless have been successful.