---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `b469eeb3f69ddb5237fadf1f475f5f14`
`Mr. CORNYN — 25 January 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. I appreciate the numerous ways in which many of our 
colleagues have worked to improve this bill; significantly, the 
bipartisan work of the Finance Committee, Senators Grassley and Baucus, 
certainly the good work of the minority manager of the bill, Senator 
Enzi, and numerous others to try to improve it, to try to ameliorate 
some of the unintended consequences of government-mandated wages. I 
support the small business package which is part of what we are 
attempting to do to provide a better bill, one that rounds out the 
provisions of the bill and one that actually produces intended effects, 
which are not to hurt small businesses, the primary engine of our 
economy.

The fact is, small businesses employ about 70 percent of the workers 
in America today. Why would this body do anything that would actually 
put more people out of work? Well, the provisions of the legislation 
that came out of the Finance Committee, as modest as they are, 
represent a real attempt to try to round out and improve the bill in 
order to reduce the unintended impact, which would be to put people out 
of work, and to provide some regulatory and tax relief for small 
businesses, the employers that employ 70 percent of the people in the 
American workforce.

Small business expensing allows mom-and-pop shops and entrepreneurs 
to reinvest in their businesses and grow and, in so growing, hire more 
people and create jobs, not just in my State of Texas but across the 
country. It will help locally owned businesses and other small 
enterprises make much needed improvements in their infrastructure, 
which will help them compete and improve their productivity. I have 
concerns, however, that while the minimum wage increase in this 
legislation is permanent, the regulatory and tax relief that is part of 
the package is only temporary and not permanent as well. Nevertheless, 
these fixes are necessary.

But don't take it from me. Take it from people like Jonathan Meller 
who e-mailed me recently. Mr. Meller is the owner of Papa Murphy's 
pizza restaurant in Burleson, TX. He talked about the economics of a 
wage increase and what it would mean for his small business. Like a 
majority of employees slated to earn the minimum wage, Mr. Meller's 
employees are, true to the statistic I mentioned a moment ago, under 20 
years of age. Like many business owners, Mr. Meller operates in a free 
market. He believes in free enterprise. He believes in competition. 
Frankly, he doesn't appreciate the fact that government sticks its big 
finger right in the middle of his business and mandates that he pay 
wages that are above the market. Any government-mandated wage hike will 
have a dramatic impact on how he is able to do business and on the 
number of employees he is able to hire.

Then there is William Goodman, the owner of Scooters in El Paso. Mr. 
Goodman has only one employee. If the minimum wage is raised, where 
does that leave him? Mr. Goodman says he will have no employees, if the 
government, rather than the market, forces him to increase the wages he 
pays his one employee. He says--and I take him as his word--he will not 
be able to absorb the additional cost that would go along with this 
legislation.


My point is this: Raising the minimum wage and the taxes that come 
with it will similarly leave many employees without jobs. We need to 
think long and hard before we choose to impose this sort of regulation 
on small businesses. In the end, my hope is that we can come together 
with a sensible package that will enjoy bipartisan support; that will, 
according to the intentions of the authors, increase the minimum wage 
but also soften the blow on small business and thus protect the jobs of 
many workers who might otherwise be laid off.

The important point, though, that this legislation misses is that the 
best way to increase the quality of life for workers in America is not 
just to raise the minimum wage. That puts a patch or a Band-Aid on what 
is a much more serious and larger problem. Education and workforce 
training are the best ways to increase the quality of life for 
America's workers instead of a wage increase that could hurt small 
businesses and consumers and, indeed, some of the very employees we are 
trying to help.

We all understand--it is a given--that every American should receive 
a good-quality education. We must continue to pursue policies to ensure 
that this is not merely a dream but a reality. No one, though, should 
end their education just when they receive a diploma or degree. Indeed, 
the world has become so complex, competition has become so globalized, 
that we need to think of education as a lifelong learning experience. 
In that vein, I emphasize the importance of providing workers with the 
kinds of skills and talent and training they need, not only to earn the 
minimum wage but to earn


good living wages much higher than the minimum wage and the important 
role our universities, community colleges, trade schools, and workforce 
development centers play in providing the training and education 
necessary for thousands and thousands of people across this great 
country to improve their standard of living and to achieve their 
dreams.

I strongly believe that joint workforce-education projects are 
critical to our efforts as our economy continues its upswing and as 
competition increases on a global scale. It is imperative that we focus 
our efforts not only on setting a wage that may be out of sync with 
market forces but literally on liberating people to achieve their 
dreams by giving them the skills necessary to earn higher wages which 
will allow them to enjoy the American dream. It is imperative that we 
do everything we can to provide this training through our colleges and 
universities, working with the private sector to try to develop 
programs relevant to the local economy and, hence, jobs that are 
available in the local economy, and thus increase our competitiveness.

This is not just a temporary or passing interest of mine. I have 
traveled across my State, as have many of my colleagues, to community 
colleges and have seen some of the effective partnerships that 
community colleges have entered into with local employers. Frankly, 
employers are wanting for lack of trained employees to fill job 
vacancies at much higher than the minimum wage. One stands out in my 
mind--a young woman I met at the Bell Helicopter plant in Amarillo, TX, 
by the name of Jeanette Hudson Gibbs. The reason I remember Ms. Gibbs 
is because she works on the assembly line for the V-22 tilt rotor at 
Bell Helicopter at their Amarillo plant. This is a young Hispanic 
woman, a single mother with a special needs child, who, before she went 
to work at Bell Helicopter on the assembly line for the V-22 tilt 
rotor, was a prison guard, a single mom. You can imagine the concerns 
her family had, not just about the fact that she was earning much lower 
wages but, in fact, the dangers associated with that job. Thanks to the 
great partnership Bell Helicopter had entered into with Amarillo 
Community College, Ms. Gibbs is now earning $16 an hour, and that was 
the last time I heard from her. It could be she is even doing better 
now because of the job skills she acquired through this partnership 
between Bell Helicopter and Amarillo Community College. This is a great 
success story of which I am proud. I know she must be proud of her 
accomplishments. And it is exactly the sort of emphasis we ought to be 
placing through legislation we pass on the floor.

I worry that by looking at mandating minimum wages rather than 
focusing on workforce development and the kind of job training that is 
going to be able to produce more people like her, somehow we have not 
set our sights high enough.

Last April, I hosted an event back in my home of Austin, TX. It is 
something we call the Texas Workforce Summit. This was a gathering of 
community college leaders from all across the State. The purpose of 
that was to learn more about Federal grant opportunities and to learn 
more about the successes of partnerships such as the one I just 
mentioned between Amarillo Community College and Bell Helicopter. 
Because of this initiative, Del Mar College in Corpus Christi applied 
for and received a grant of nearly $2 million to improve employment 
opportunities for technical employees in the aerospace industry. This 
is an even better story because Del Mar College has the same kind of 
workforce training partnership that I described a moment ago in 
Amarillo but this time in Corpus Christi. This is a workforce 
development program which Del Mar has entered into at the Corpus 
Christi Depot. The Corpus Christi Depot, for those who don't know, is 
the place where the military refurbishes and refits the military 
helicopters that are damaged through use in the conflicts in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. We have a wonderful training program there 
through the same kind of partnership I mentioned a moment ago, which is 
creating a better way of life and a better opportunity for many workers 
there--and also, in a patriotic fashion, supporting our effort in the 
global war on terror.

As you can tell, I have been a long advocate of these initiatives. I 
have taken the opportunity to visit these community colleges all across 
my State, in cities such as Austin, Houston, Pasadena, Laredo, 
Beaumont, Sherman, El Paso, Lubbock, and Victoria, to highlight the 
very thing I am talking about here on the floor of the Senate today. So 
I hope that as we move forward, we will not forget about the great 
promises community colleges hold in terms of workforce training and 
look to maybe setting our sights a little bit higher than we have been 
last week and this week in talking about minimum wage, when we ought to 
talk about how we can prepare people to earn much higher wages and, 
frankly, wages and jobs that go wanting for lack of a trained 
workforce.

Just this last week, the National Journal highlighted community 
colleges as a true American success story. They have offered 
occupational skills training for decades and will continue to lead the 
effort to stimulate industry and job growth. This article says:




 Bridging the gaps between high schools and four-year 


 institutions and between employers and workers, two-year 


 community colleges will help determine how America fares in 


 the global economic competition.


So I say it again, Mr. President: We should aspire to much more for 
the workforce in America, for the American worker, than just the 
minimum wage. Education and workforce training are the way forward to 
both increase the quality of life for more workers and provide a way 
for them to achieve their dreams.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1














 Raising Questions





 many employers unsure about possible rise in minimum wage














(By Matt Whittaker)




 Brownsville.--Restaurant owner Belinda Campirano is torn 


 when asked to weigh in on what Congress should do about 


 raising the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour from $5.15, where 


 it has been for a decade.



 She has only one $6-an-hour employee at Media Luna, the 


 Brownsville eatery I she and her sister own. Still, a 


 mandated wage increase would put a dent in her budget, she 


 said.



 But she empathizes with those supporting their families on 


 service industry wages. Her employee, who has a child and is 


 married to a waitress, sometimes works an extra job at 


 another restaurant to help make ends meet.



 ''I'm kind of sitting on the fence on it,'' Campirano said 


 of the minimum wage. ''I do believe we need to up it, but it 


 is going to impact small businesses. As an employer, it would 


 be tough for me if I had more employees.''



 Of 5.5 million hourly workers in Texas, 176,000 earned at 


 or below $5.15 an hour in 2005, according to Labor Department 


 data. The liberal Economic Policy Institute, a Washington, 


 D.C., think tank in favor of increasing the nation's base 


 pay, estimates 863,000 Texas workers would be directly 


 affected by a federal minimum wage increase to $7.25 an hour.



 More workers would be affected in the Rio Grande Valley 


 than in other parts of the country because the area has lower 


 wages, said Jose A. Pagan, a labor economist at the 


 University of Texas-Pan American in Edinburg. In the second 


 quarter of 2006, Cameron County had the lowest average weekly 


 wages in the nation, at $484. Hidalgo County followed at $494 


 a week.



 On Jan. 10, the U.S. House passed a measure that would 


 increase the minimum wage to $7.25 in three stages over more 


 than two years. Passage of a companion bill introduced in the 


 Senate could hinge on tax breaks for businesses.



 The bill is expected to be brought up in the Senate this 


 week, and U.S. Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn, 


 both Texas Republicans, support an increase if it is coupled 


 with tax help for small businesses.



 Proponents of the increase say it is a long overdue raise 


 for U.S. workers. A memorandum from the Economic Policy 


 Institute said business owners have received tax cuts since 


 1997 (when the last minimum wage increase took effect), 


 ''while minimum wage workers have been kept waiting at the 


 back of the line.''



 Opponents of a minimum wage increase say it would hurt 


 small businesses and the working poor alike and increase 


 unemployment.



 ''It's a bad thing for any area,'' said Jill Jenkins, chief 


 economist at the conservative Employment Policies Institute, 


 a Washington, D.C., think tank that opposes a minimum wage 


 increase.

