# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `b46f8b76b29f4ad802678b9572cb5f7e`
`Mr. PRYOR — 24 April 2008`

---


Mr. PRYOR. Mr. President, I join Arkansans today in mourning the loss 
of Cpl Kyle Weston Wilks of Rogers, AR. He paid the ultimate sacrifice 
to stand up for democracy and peace. We are grateful for Corporal 
Wilks' service to our Nation and we will honor his memory. I know his 
family and friends will remember this fallen hero's great smile and 
penchant for life, including playing sports and watching Razorback 
football and NASCAR.

A marine with the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit since September 
2004, Corporal Wilks helped with the evacuation of Beirut in 2006 and 
most recently served in Afghanistan. During this time, Corporal Wilks 
was awarded the Good Conduct Medal, Humanitarian Service Medal, Global 
War on Terrorism Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary 
Medal, National Defense Service Medal, and the Sea Service Deployment 
Ribbon.

Before his second deployment, Corporal Wilks visited New York to see 
Ground Zero, which reaffirmed his commitment to military service and 
his country. He was a true patriot who planned to use his training as a 
military policeman to begin a career in law enforcement.

Mr. President, Arkansas has now lost over 70 soldiers in the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. As long as I serve in public office, I will work 
to honor their service, live up to their courage, and protect the 
principles they fought to preserve.



Corporal Wilks has said his parents, Randy and Kathy Wilks, were his 
heroes. My prayers are with them, as well as his sister Makayla, during 
this difficult time.
