---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `b474077ab03185a58e8c2494a5ff4cfb`
`Mr. ROSS — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. We agree that it is critical for members of the U.S. Armed 
Forces, including members of the reserve components, to have adequate 
rest and recuperation periods between deployments.

We agree that a safe and responsible redeployment of U.S. Armed 
Forces from Iraq, based on recommendations from our military and 
foreign policy leaders, is necessary to transition the combat mission 
over to the Iraqi forces.

We agree that the continued military mission of U.S. combat forces 
must lead to a timely transition to conducting counterterrorism 
operations, protecting the U.S. Armed Forces, supporting and equipping 
Iraqi forces to take full responsibility for their own security, 
assisting refugees, and preventing genocide.



We agree that U.S. diplomatic efforts should continue to be improved 
and that the U.S. State Department must engage in robust diplomacy with 
Iraq's neighbors in the Middle East to address the Iraq conflict.

We had a military surge, and we now know that didn't work. That is 
what President Bush wanted, and that's what he got. What we are saying 
here, among these eight components, and don't get me wrong, it is only 
one of the eight components, one of the eight components is it's time 
for a diplomatic surge in the Middle East. Fourteen Democrats and 
fourteen Republicans have signed on to this, and I believe it is time 
for a new direction in Iraq. It is time for a bipartisan direction. It 
is time for us to all come together as Americans first.

I yield to the gentleman from Tennessee.

