# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `b4846b613b56b1bd1de32d0efee312bc`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I am very pleased this nomination is now 
before the Senate. The nominee is very well qualified to serve as a 
Federal judge. He is a highly respected lawyer with a keen sense of 
fairness. I think he will reflect great credit on the Federal 
judiciary.

Sul graduated magna cum laude from the Georgetown University School 
of Foreign Service, where he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

After graduating from Georgetown, he attended the U.S. Navy Flight 
School in Pensacola, FL, and then served for 5 years as a naval 
officer. He served as a bombardier and navigator aboard A-6E Intruder 
aircraft and was awarded the Navy Commendation Medal for missions flown 
over Iraq and during Operation Restore Hope in 1992 and 1993. He also 
completed deployments to the Western Pacific and to the Persian Gulf 
aboard the aircraft carrier USS Kitty Hawk from 1992 to 1994.

Sul is also a graduate of the Stanford University School of Law, 
where he served as an associate editor on the Law Review.

He then served as a law clerk to the Honorable Eldon E. Fallon, U.S. 
district judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana.

He then joined the law firm of Dukes, Dukes, Keating & Faneca in 
Gulfport, MS, a highly respected law firm in our State. He has 
practiced in State and Federal courts throughout the Southeast and 
served as lead counsel in a wide range of complex cases.

Sul is ranked by his fellow lawyers at the highest levels of 
professional accomplishment. He received a unanimous ''qualified'' 
rating from the American Bar Association's Standing Committee on the 
Federal Judiciary.

Mr. President, I have come to know this nominee well and his family 
members who are outstanding citizens of the gulf coast area, of the 
State of Mississippi. I am very pleased he accepted the nomination and 
is prepared to take his place on the bench of the Federal court in our 
State. I am very pleased to urge the confirmation of this nominee.