---
---

# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b49939fffd6d6c811342a45457e9ef82`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 28 June 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the distinguished 
chairman very much for yielding. I thank the Chair of the Democratic 
Caucus, Mr. Emanuel, for his amendment, upon which I decided not to 
offer my amendment on this issue.

Let me explain why I believe that the American people understand that 
no one is above the law: secret energy task force; secret wiretapping 
of Americans in violation of the FISA Act; a clandestine campaign to 
gut critical environmental protections; and new rules developed in 
secret governing the treatment of foreign terror suspects held by the 
United States.

The Vice President said he is part of the legislative branch. That 
means we can expel him. But in this instance, I believe we must say to 
the American people, he is not above the law.

This is a nonfunding of the Vice President's residence on the basis 
of his declaration that he is not part of the executive. I think this 
is an appropriate vehicle. I think we must say to the American people 
that not one of us, not one legislator, not one executive person, none 
of us is above the law. I wholeheartedly support this amendment.

I am proud to join as a cosponsor with my good friend, the gentleman 
from Illinois, Mr. Emanuel, in sponsoring this amendment to H.R. 2829, 
the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act of 
2008. I also rise to commend Chairman Serrano and Ranking Member Regula 
for their leadership in shepherding this bill through the legislative 
process. I declined to offer the amendment that I filed so unity could 
be exhibited under one premise--no one is above the law--including the 
Vice President.

Among other things, this legislation provides funding for the Supreme 
Court and the Federal judiciary, the District of Columbia Government; 
and several independent agencies such as the Federal Trade Commission. 
The bill also funds the Executive Office of the President and other 
executive branch agencies, including the Treasury Department and the 
Internal Revenue Service.

While most Americans do not know that this legislation also provides 
funding to operate the official residence of the Vice President, they 
do know that the Vice President is a member of the Executive Branch of 
the Federal Government. This fact apparently is news to the current 
occupant of the office, Vice President Cheney, who it has been reported 
resisted compliance with an executive order issued by President Bush in 
2003 regarding the handling of classified information on the ground 
that the Vice President and his office is not a unit of the executive 
branch.

Mr. Chairman, if it were not so serious and not part of a long 
pattern of disturbing conduct, the Vice President's claim would be 
merely laughable and his weak grasp of the facts might even be 
charming.

But this Vice President has a long, disturbing, and disastrous record 
of asserting as fact things that he plainly knows to be untrue.

This is the same Vice President who said this about the war in Iraq: 
''I think it will go relatively quickly . . . [in] weeks rather than 
months.'' In the run-up to the war, this same Vice President went on 
national television and confidently assured the nation that there was a 
connection between 911 and Saddam Hussein's Iraq.

Vice President Cheney proclaimed in March 2002 that Saddam Hussein's 
Iraq possessed ''biological and chemical weapons,'' and confidently 
assured the nation less than a week before the launch of the Iraq War 
that, yes indeed, ''we believe [Iraq] has, in fact, reconstituted 
nuclear weapons.'' In each instance, the Vice President was proven 
wrong by the facts.

With his preposterous claim not to be a member of the executive 
branch, history is repeating. But as the saying goes: ''history 
repeats; the first time as tragedy, the second time as farce.''

Indeed, perhaps the only person in the whole history of the United 
States who has been more wrong more often about more things of great 
consequence than the Vice President is the current President, who after 
all, is the nation's Chief Executive and Commander in Chief of the 
Armed Forces.



Let us set the record straight and get our facts right.

The Vice President is a creature of the Executive Branch of the 
Federal Government as Article II, section 1 of the Constitution makes 
clear. The Vice President is not a ''member'' of the Legislative 
Branch because membership in that branch is governed by the first 
clause in sections 2 and 3 of Article I. No member of Congress is 
elected to serve a four-year term as is the Vice President. And no 
member of Congress is provided an official residence as is the Vice 
President and the President.


A member of the Federal legislature can be involuntarily removed from 
office if his or her colleagues, by a /2/3/ margin, vote to expel. The 
Vice President can be involuntarily removed from office after 
impeachment by the House and conviction in the Senate.

Mr. Chairman, the Vice President is extremely intelligent and no 
doubt knew his claim to be a member of the legislative branch was and 
is specious. The claim was simply a dodge to evade accountability and 
compliance with the requirements of the law. We have been down this 
road before: Secret Energy Task Force, secret wiretapping of Americans 
in violation of the FISA Act, clandestine campaign to gut critical 
environmental protections, new rules developed in secret governing the 
treatment of foreign terrorism suspects held by the United States.

Mr. Chairman, I am proud to have spent the majority of my time in 
Congress protecting and defending the separation of powers that is the 
hallmark of our democracy. I have consistently opposed this 
Administration's abuse of executive powers and prerogatives. That is 
why I introduced H.R. 264, the Congressional Lawmaking Authority 
Protection Act, challenging the president's misuse of bill signing 
statements.

Similarly, I introduced the Military Success in Iraq Act (MSIA or 
''Messiah'') to deliver American troops from Iraq by terminating the 
authorization to use military force and requiring a new vote to 
continue offensive military operations in Iraq. A third example of my 
resistance to this Administration misuse and abuse of authority is H.R. 
267, the Military Commissions Habeas Corpus Restoration Act of 2007, 
which I introduced to repeal the restriction on the jurisdiction of 
courts, justices, and judges to hear or consider applications for writs 
of habeas corpus filed by or on behalf of certain aliens detained by 
the United States.

Mr. Chairman, no person is above the law and certainly not Vice 
President Cheney. That is why I joined with Congressman Emanuel to 
resist his latest attempt to avoid accountability and evade 
responsibility.

The intent of the amendment is straightforward: to limit the 
availability of funds for the Office of the Vice President only to Vice 
Presidents who are members of the executive branch of the Federal 
Government and subject to the executive authority of the President of 
the United States. The appropriated funds are not available to members 
of the legislative branch. A person is a member of the legislative 
branch only if they are so qualified by virtue of compliance with 
Article I, section 2, clause 1 or Article I, section 3, clause 1. 
Acting as President over the Senate is not sufficient to make one a 
''member'' of the Senate, and thus a member of the legislative branch.

Although our amendment will save the taxpayers $4.752 million from 
being used by the Vice President, it does not restrict funding for the 
Vice President's secret service protection and does not affect the 
funds Cheney would receive as President of the Senate. The Senate 
version of the FY08 Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill provides the 
President of the Senate with $2.3 million.

Mr. Chairman, if the Vice President does not think he is a member of 
the executive branch there is no reason he should impose upon the 
taxpayers to fund the perquisites of his office. Democrats were 
entrusted by the voters with the majority to restore fiscal 
responsibility, oversight, and accountability to government. The new 
majority is committed to ensuring that government operates in an open, 
transparent, accountable and fair manner.

For all these reasons, Mr. Chairman, I urge adoption of the 
amendment. Let me again thank Chairman Serrano and Ranking Member 
Regula for their courtesies, consideration, and very fine work in 
putting together this excellent legislation.