---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `b4c20738287ab93e77bb21caf3d0283c`
`Mr. CORNYN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, the Senator from Arizona is exactly right. 
We need to have a fair debate and fair opportunity for a vote on these 
competing proposals, both of which I say, again, were borne out of the 
best of intentions, and that is providing educational benefits for our 
military servicemembers and their families.

But I have to add that calling into question Senator McCain's 
commitment to veterans is laughable. It would be laughable if it wasn't 
so pathetic. No one serving in the Congress and few serving anywhere in 
the United States have given more to support our military 
servicemembers, both active and retired, and, obviously, Senator McCain 
himself is a war hero. To me, that is the kind of phony ad that I think 
causes most people simply to dismiss it because there is just no basis 
for it.

I agree with the Senator from Arizona that this procedure, whereby we 
are asked to vote on what started out to be an emergency funding bill 
to support our troops in harm's way in Afghanistan and Iraq, has now 
been larded up with a bunch of pet projects and other spending which 
have nothing to do with supporting our troops in harm's way.

Congress, by engaging in this sort of conduct, is actually slowing 
down delivery of the money to the troops who need it. We have been told 
by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Veterans' 
Administration--particularly the Secretary of Defense--that unless we 
act----