# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `b4cc185d6cc9a46d24930f63e7bde666`
`Mr. LEVIN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, next Tuesday will mark the start of the 
fifth year of the war in Iraq. Our Nation has spent almost $400 billion 
now in Iraq and is spending an average of almost $9 billion in U.S. 
taxpayers' funds per month. More importantly, we have lost almost 3,200 
American service men and women and have suffered almost 24,000 wounded.

The resolution before us is aimed at turning the responsibility for 
the future of Iraq over to the Iraqis themselves. Last year, we adopted 
a resolution which said that calendar year 2006 was going to be a 
period of significant transition to full Iraqi sovereignty with Iraqi 
security forces taking the lead for the security of a free and 
sovereign Iraq, thereby creating the conditions for a phased 
redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq. That was over a year ago.

We were supposed to be through a year of significant transition by 
now. It has not happened. The only way it is going to happen is if this 
Congress makes it happen.

Many of us have long maintained it was necessary that pressure be 
placed on the Iraqis to come together politically because only a 
political settlement could bring about the end of sectarian violence in 
Iraq and the defeat of the insurgents.

I have recounted how Ambassador Khalilzad and even President Bush 
have told me a number of statements that many of us have made--that we 
should begin to reduce our presence in Iraq--were, indeed, useful 
statements, useful in an effort to prod the Iraqis to reach a political 
settlement.


Those words--the words of President Bush, Ambassador Khalilzad, and 
recently Secretary Rice--words prodding the Iraqis to take 
responsibility, telling the Iraqis the open-ended commitment is over, 
telling the Iraqis we must begin to reduce our presence in 4 to 6 
months are useful words for the Iraqis to hear.

The problem is it is not the President who is speaking those words. 
The problem is the administration has not adopted those words as a 
matter of policy. Now it is time for Congress to explain to the Iraqis: 
It is your country. We cannot save you from yourselves. It is time for 
us, the Congress, to tell the Iraqis as a reminder that it is their own 
Prime Minister, Mr. Maliki, who acknowledged the following when he said 
a few months ago:




 The crisis is political, and the ones who can stop the 


 cycle of aggravation and bloodletting are the [Iraqi] 


 politicians.


A few weeks ago, Ambassador Khalilzad said in an interview on 
television that the congressional debate is ''useful in one way. It 
does send a message to the Iraqis that the patience of the American 
people is running out, and that is helpful to my diplomacy.''

I wish to repeat this because there are a number of Members of this 
body and there are a number of members of the administration who have 
attacked this debate as somehow or another undermining our troops. It 
is quite the opposite. We support our troops when we give them our best 
thinking as to how to succeed in Iraq. It is good for our troops to 
have a debate in this democracy about whether a course is failing or 
succeeding and, if it is not succeeding, to offer our best thoughts as 
to how to make it succeed.

Our troops deserve everything we can give them. They haven't gotten 
it. They deserve the best equipment. They didn't get it. They deserve 
treatment when they come to our hospitals. They didn't get it. They 
deserve our best thinking, our honest thoughts as to how we can succeed 
in Iraq, how can we change course from a failing course to one which 
succeeds.

We know there is no military solution in Iraq, there is only a 
political solution, and that must be achieved by the Iraqis themselves. 
We cannot save the Iraqis from themselves. It is their country. After 4 
years of shedding American blood and American treasure, it is long 
overdue that the Iraqi leaders be told, not just by this Congress, 
although we alone apparently will do it, but by the administration that 
they and they alone have the responsibility, the capability, and the 
power to make Iraq a country instead of a place of civil strife.

This resolution we are about to embark upon will end the open-ended 
commitment of American military forces that is not working. We must 
change this course. Only the Iraqis can save their country, and we will 
be helping to force them to do that. It shouldn't be necessary, but it 
is. We will be helping to force the Iraqi leaders to save their country 
if we step up finally and say: We have been there longer than we were 
in World War II. We have been in Iraq longer than we fought the Korean 
war. Iraqis leaders, only you, and you alone, can decide: Do you want a 
civil war or do you want a nation? We hope you choose a nation.

I yield the floor.