---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `b4d2182ae16352adef1dd398711577be`
`Mrs. TAUSCHER — 12 July 2007`

---


Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to voice my very strong 
support for Chairman Skelton's legislation. It represents an 
unequivocal belief that the United States cannot and should not be in 
the business of fighting Iraq's civil war.

For over 4 years, it has been clear to me that our troops 
successfully and bravely accomplished the mission authorized by the 
President in the fall of 2002.

Today's report that our troops have done their job but the Iraqi 
Government has not underscores the deep problems with the Bush 
administration's approach. We are no longer at war with Iraq's 
Government; instead, our forces are caught in the middle of an 
escalating sectarian conflict in Iraq, with no end in sight. Yet, the 
President continues to blindly stay the course, with disastrous and 
deadly consequences.

Chairman Skelton's bill would make significant reductions in our 
troop presence by April of 2008. Democrats, along with our Republican 
colleagues who no longer trust the President's leadership, are doing 
all we can to change the President's full speed ahead mismanagement of 
the war in Iraq and divert the policy toward returning our troops home 
sooner and safer.

This more responsible presence, which limits U.S. presence to 
fighting


terrorism and training Iraq forces, will be a first step in restoring 
stability in Iraq and the readiness of our military which has been 
badly damaged over the last 4 years.

I appreciate Chairman Skelton's leadership on this matter, and I urge 
my colleagues to support this commonsense approach.