# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `b4d4e99b7b1ea40956e5f533be969a27`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. I thank the gentleman.

Madam Speaker, I want to follow up on one point that the gentleman 
made, and then I'm going to yield to the gentleman from Texas and the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania.

Madam Speaker, the gentleman talked about the importance of having a 
dialogue here on the floor of the House, and I agree. I don't know how 
we can expect Sunni and Shia and Kurd to reconcile their differences 
when we seem to be incapable of reconciling our differences. I think we 
should lead by example.

But in addition to engaging one another on the floor of the House, I 
believe that leadership also involves bringing communities together. 
And one of the unique things that the Center Aisle Caucus will be doing 
under the leadership of the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Cramer) and the 
gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. Emerson) is to have town hall meetings 
in each others' districts on Iraq so that we can listen together to the 
broad range of opinions that are in our districts and bring that back 
in a bipartisan fashion.

And I'm very pleased, Madam Speaker, to have learned that our first 
bipartisan town hall meeting will be in the district of the gentleman 
from Maryland. Mr. Cramer from Alabama, Mrs. Emerson from Missouri and 
I will be traveling to the gentleman's district in Maryland to have a 
bipartisan town hall that he is convening, and I'm very much looking 
forward to engaging in that dialogue, and hoping that the gentleman 
will be educated by what my constituents believe, and that I will be 
educated by what his constituents believe.

With that, I will yield to the gentleman from Texas.