# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `b4dae48627c9fe47714b9ab1bac6b4e4`
`Mr. SANDERS â€” 4 February 2008`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, during the last several weeks and 
months, in fact, there has been increased discussion and comments about 
the state of our economy. As you know, last month our Nation actually 
shed some 17,000 jobs and many economists tell us we are now in a 
recession and that is certainly true for some parts of this country.

The House, the Senate, and the White House are wrestling with an 
economic stimulus package, and President Bush has presented his new 
budget. This week, the Director of the OMB and the Secretary of the 
Treasury will come before the Senate Budget Committee to discuss their 
views on the economy.

Let me begin by stating how dismayed I was by the budget President 
Bush has provided us today. Frankly, this budget is unconscionable and 
reflects priorities that are almost impossible to comprehend. While 
providing hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks for the 
wealthiest three-tenths of 1 percent of our population over the next 
decade, this President has proposed major cuts in health care, LIHEAP, 
weatherization, nutrition, housing programs, and other basic needs for 
moderate- and low-income people. This is a Robin Hood in reverse 
budget. This is a budget that takes from the poor and working families, 
those most in need, and gives to millionaires and billionaires, those 
least in need.

This proposed budget tells us how out of touch this President and his 
administration are with the needs of the American people.

Let me be very clear; as a Member of the Senate Budget Committee, I 
will do everything I can to make sure Bush's budget is rejected and 
that we bring forth a new budget that reflects the priorities of all 
our people and not just the wealthiest and most powerful.

Most Americans understand, for example, our health care system is 
disintegrating. Since George W. Bush has been President, 8.6 million 
Americans have lost their health insurance, and we now live in a 
country in which 47 million of our neighbors have no health insurance. 
We live at a time when health costs are soaring, when people are paying 
larger and larger deductibles and copayments. That is the reality of 
American health care today.

How does President Bush respond to this crisis in health care? His 
response is to slash funding for Medicare, slash funding for Medicaid, 
slash funding for rural health care programs, making a terrible 
situation even worse.

I understand it will be asking too much for this President to stand 
up to the insurance companies, to stand up to the drug companies and 
move us toward a national health care program which guarantees health 
care for all our people, something, by the way, which every other major 
country on Earth now has.

I understand that is something George W. Bush is not going to do. I 
understand that. But at the very least, at a time when some 17,000 
Americans a year die because they lack health insurance, he should not 
be making a terrible situation even worse. He need not deny health care 
to even more Americans.

In the State of Vermont and through many parts of our country, 
Minnesota included, we have experienced extremely cold weather this 
winter. At the same time, as every American knows, the price of home 
heating oil has more than doubled, skyrocketed since President Bush has 
been in office. The result is the LIHEAP program, the Low-Income Home 
Energy Assistance Program, which keeps millions of seniors and low-
income households warm in the winter, is stretched to the breaking 
point. That is the reality. Cold winter, price of home heating oil 
soaring, the program is stretched.

In State after State, because of soaring fuel prices, either fewer 
people are able to access LIHEAP or the amount of help they are getting 
has been significantly reduced. That is simply the arithmetic of the 
situation: lower payments, fewer people. Those are the choices States 
have with reduced LIHEAP budgets.

I know President Bush has no problem, no problem whatsoever, with the 
fact that his good pals at ExxonMobil have announced the largest 
profits in the history of the world for the third consecutive year, 
over $40 billion in profits in the year 2007. I am quite sure the 
President has no problem with that, and I understand that. He has no 
problem, apparently, with the fact that home heating oil prices are now 
at $3.30 a gallon. I am sure he has no problems with the fact that a 
few years ago, the former CEO of ExxonMobil, a gentleman named Lee 
Raymond, received a $400 million retirement package from that company. 
It is not a problem for the President of the United States. He is close 
to those people. As he once famously said: That is his base.

But despite the President's lack of concern about rising fuel costs, 
it is beyond comprehension that he would slash the LIHEAP program by 
$570 million, a 22-percent reduction from last year. The price of home 
heating oil is soaring, more and more people are losing their LIHEAP 
benefits, and the President's response in the midst of this crisis is 
to slash the program. That is pretty cruel. What is a low-income senior 
living on Social Security supposed to do when the weather gets below 
zero and she cannot heat her home? That is the story today, and you 
propose to make it even worse next year.

At a time when millions of low-income seniors are struggling to 
survive on inadequate Social Security benefits, this President in his 
budget wants to cut back on nutrition programs for low-income seniors, 
in addition to cutting back on low-income housing and senior citizen 
housing.

Hunger in the United States of America is increasing. Emergency food 
shelves are simply running out of groceries. There is no moral 
justification for the President of the United States to be cutting back 
on nutrition programs for low-income elderly Americans by proposing to 
completely eliminate the Commodity Supplemental Food Program which is 
providing assistance to well over 4,000 low-income senior citizens in 
the State of Vermont and hundreds of thousands nationally. With hunger 
going up, the President cuts back on an important nutritional program 
for low-income seniors.

I am a member of the Veterans' Committee, and I am proud that last 
year, against opposition from the White House, we substantially 
increased funding for the VA and are providing billions more so 
veterans can gain access


to quality VA hospitals and clinics. That is what we accomplished. That 
was the right thing to do. And yet despite all of his rhetoric about 
how much he loves the troops and how much he respects the troops--last 
week, I might add, in his State of the Union Address, President Bush 
said:




 We must keep faith with all who have risked life and limb 


 so that we might live in freedom and peace.


That was the President's statement 1 week ago at the State of the 
Union Address. But today, after all that flowery rhetoric, the 
President has proposed in his budget a very sharp increase in health 
care fees from $250 to $750 for veterans who access VA health care 
facilities. And there is no question, no doubt about it but that these 
increased fees, if put into effect, would result in driving many 
veterans out of VA health care which, in fact, is precisely the goal of 
that proposal. He wants to take veterans out of VA health care, which 
is consistent with what the President did several years ago when he 
threw large numbers of so-called category 8 veterans, those without 
service-connected disabilities, out of VA health care.

The words tell us how much he loves our soldiers, but actions tell us 
he is prepared to raise fees for veterans health care, with the result 
of removing many veterans from the VA system.

I say to President Bush that at a time when tens of thousands of our 
soldiers have been wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, please don't 
balance your budget on the backs of men and women who have put their 
lives on the line defending this country.

Since George W. Bush has been in office, we have seen recordbreaking 
deficits, and our national debt is now $9.2 trillion, $3 trillion more 
than when President Bush assumed office.

All of us in Congress want to move this country toward a balanced 
budget to make sure our kids and our grandchildren are not left with an 
enormous debt. But there are right ways to move toward a balanced 
budget and there are wrong ways to try to do that and, unfortunately, 
President Bush's budget moves us exactly in the wrong direction.

As many Americans know, since President Bush has been in the White 
House, the middle class has been decimated, poverty has increased, and 
the gap between the very wealthiest people in our society and everyone 
else has grown wider. In fact, the United States now has by far the 
most unequal distribution of wealth and income of any major country on 
Earth.

Sadly, the gap between the upper-income people, the wealthiest people 
in our country, and the middle class is increasingly making our country 
look like a poor developing country. We have the same economic 
structure, in terms of distribution of wealth and income, that 
countries such as Brazil and Mexico have, rather than looking like 
other major industrialized countries in Europe, Scandinavia or in 
Canada.

I am aware a lot of facts and figures are thrown about on the floor 
of the Senate, but let me mention one fact I hope all Americans pay 
attention to, and that is that according to the latest statistics 
available, the wealthiest 300,000 Americans--that is men, women, and 
children--take in more income than the bottom 150 million Americans. In 
other words, the upper one-tenth of 1 percent, 300,000 people, take in 
more money than do the bottom 50 percent. One-tenth of 1 percent. Fifty 
percent. And that is what is going on in the American economy today.


Tragically, that gap between the superrich and everybody else is 
growing wider and wider every single year. For those people who live in 
the bottom 90 percent of the population, the vast majority of our 
citizens, their average income was $33,000 way back in 1973. Today, 
despite all of the free trade agreements and globalization, despite all 
of the huge increases in technology, despite the significant growth in 
worker productivity, in inflation-accounted-for dollars, that $33,000 
per year has declined to $29,000 a year, which is about a $75-a-week 
pay cut.

That is what is going on in the economy today, and has been going on 
over the last three decades: people on top, doing phenomenally well; 
people at the bottom, the situation is getting worse; people in the 
middle are getting squeezed, working longer hours for lower wages. And 
perhaps those trends tell us why in today's Washington Post a front-
page story was headlined ''U.S. Concern Over Economy Is Highest In 
Year.'' That was the headline on the front page of the Washington Post 
today. The first line of that story tells us that ''The public views 
the national economy now more negatively than at any point in nearly 15 
years.''

What is going on is that the American people are getting sick and 
tired--they are getting sick and tired--of paying $3.15 for a gallon of 
gas when ExxonMobil enjoys the highest profits in the history of the 
world. They are tired of paying outrageously high home heating costs. 
They are tired of losing their health insurance. They are tired of 
losing their pensions. They are tired of not being able to find 
affordable childcare for their kids. They are tired of seeing their 
kids come out of college $20,000 or $30,000 in debt and not able to 
find decent-paying jobs.

And not only are they tired, they are worried. They are worried that 
for the first time in the modern history of this great country--despite 
the fact that so many people are working so hard, they are worried that 
their kids will have a lower standard of living than they do. They are 
worried that the American dream, which is what this country has always 
been about--the dream which says that if parents work hard, their kids 
will do better than they do--they are worried that dream is being lost.

That is why there is so much deep concern about the economy. It is 
not just health care, it is not just the loss of pensions, it is not 
only outrageously high prices when you fill up your car, and it is not 
only home heating oil; it is the fact that when you go shopping, what 
you are doing is buying products made in China and Mexico that used to 
be made in the United States. Many American people understand that we 
are never going to have a great economy if we are not producing the 
products we need and the people throughout the world need.

The American people understand that there is something profoundly 
wrong when 20, 25 years ago the largest employer in the United States 
was General Motors--manufacturer of cars--that paid workers good wages, 
good benefits, and there was a strong union, and today the largest 
employer in the United States is Wal-Mart, with low wages, minimal 
benefits, and vehemently antiunion.

The American people are getting the point that people such as 
President Bush work tirelessly on behalf of the wealthy and the 
powerful. But who is standing up for the people who make our country go 
every day--for the cops and the firemen and the farmers and the people 
who work in factories and the nurses and the doctors? Who is standing 
up for those people? Maybe the time is now for us to begin standing up 
for those people.

In the midst of all of this, the President has brought forth a budget 
that punishes working people, punishes poor people, but says to the 
wealthiest people in this country, the people who have now had it so 
good since the late 1920s, and says to them: Hey, I--the President--am 
going to help you. In his budget the President wants to repeal the 
estate tax, which would provide $1 trillion in tax relief to the 
wealthiest three-tenths of 1 percent. Let me say that again. Over a 20-
year period, $1 trillion in tax relief to the wealthiest three-tenths 
of 1 percent of our population.

That is what this budget, this Robin-Hood-in-reverse budget, is all 
about. If you are old and trying to survive on Social Security, and if 
you are going to go cold this winter and next winter, the President 
wants to cut back on the heating assistance you receive. If you are a 
low-income American, or perhaps an American without any health 
insurance right now, the President wants to cut back on Medicaid and 
Medicare. If you are an American who lives in a home that lacks 
insulation, and if you are putting money into your heating bill and 
that heat is going out your poorly insulated home, it is going out the 
window, going out the roof, you have a President who wants to 
completely eliminate the low-income weather assistance program. If you 
are a veteran who has put your life on the line defending this country, 
the President wants to make it harder for you to access VA health care 
by substantially increasing your fees. But if you


are a billionaire, the President is all there for you. If you are one 
of the wealthiest families in America, in this budget the President has 
brought forth today, you are going to get huge tax breaks. Let me cite 
one example of how preposterous this scenario is.


One of the wealthiest families in America is the Walton family. The 
Walton family, as I think most people know, owns Wal-Mart. This one 
family is worth, it is estimated, a combined $82 billion. There are a 
number of sons and daughters, but combined they are worth about $82 
billion--one family. Incredible as it may sound, under the President's 
proposal of completely eliminating the estate tax, that one family 
would receive over $30 billion in tax breaks.

So here we are. If you are old and can't afford to heat your home, we 
are going to cut the program that keeps you warm. If you are sick and 
you have no health insurance, we are going to cut the program that 
gives you access to a doctor. If you are living in a home where you are 
losing all kinds of heat through poor insulation, we are not going to 
help you. If you are a veteran who has served your country, we are 
going to raise fees for you to get into a VA hospital or a clinic. But 
if you are one of the wealthiest families in America, we are going to 
give you $30 billion in tax breaks.

I say this without glee, but President Bush will probably go down in 
history as one of the least popular Presidents this country has ever 
had. And you don't need to know anything more to understand why that is 
so. A President who would give hundreds of billions in tax breaks to 
millionaires and billionaires and then cut back on the needs of working 
families, senior citizens, and veterans is not a President who is 
representing the vast majority of our people. I will do everything that 
I can as a member of the Budget Committee to not only make sure 
President Bush's budget is not implemented, but I will work with my 
colleagues to fashion a budget that begins to address the real needs of 
the American people.

There is great disenchantment in this country about what is going on 
here in Washington, but I also note there is great hope out there. 
There is a belief that if we come together as a people, if we remember 
where we came from, if we are prepared to uphold the values that have 
made us a great country, if we are willing to stand up to the powerful 
special interests who have so much influence over what goes on in this 
institution--if we can do those things--not only can we once again 
create a great middle class, not only can we once again protect the 
most vulnerable people in our society, but perhaps, more importantly, 
we can once again give the American people a faith in their Government 
that they presently lack. That is something we must do.

Madam President, I yield the floor.