# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `b4ee94b36be612f85db39dc7d38e3cba`
`Mr. STEVENS — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, that photograph brings back many memories 
to me. The gentleman on the right was my employer at the time, the 
Secretary of Interior, Fred Seaton. As a matter of fact, I was standing 
right behind him at the time that photograph was taken.

I remember the debate here on the floor of the Senate on the Alaska 
statehood bill. On the day the vote was taken, I was standing up where 
those people are right now in the Press Gallery. That was unheard of, 
but I was standing beside my good friend who was the editor of the 
Fairbanks Daily News-Miner, C.W. ''Bill'' Snedden. He had bought this 
newspaper. He purchased it a few years before we got statehood, and he 
turned its policy around to support statehood.

One of the things he created was a cartoon they put on the front page 
of the paper every day. It was a small thing down at the bottom. This 
was Sourdough Jack. Sourdough Jack had wise sayings every day. This one 
day he published this, it was:




 All of the valid arguments against Alaska statehood are 


 listed in full on pages 2, 3, and 4.


All blank. That was the attitude of Alaskans. There really was no 
valid opposition to our becoming a State.

However, I think the Senate should know what the Senate did then and 
the role of the Senate in Alaska becoming a State--and Hawaii, too, 
later the same year.

Our delegate at that time in the House of Representatives, Democrat 
Bob Bartlett, discovered an old rule in the House that permitted 
matters of constitutional import to be taken to the floor of the House 
and worked on solely by the Committee of the Whole of the House, 
bypassing the Rules Committee. So after having tried since 1913 into 
1958 to get statehood, our delegate made the motion to bypass the Rules 
Committee. With a vote of the House, they approved going right to the 
floor with the Alaska statehood bill. That was an achievement no one 
could even have expected. But it showed the power of the press at that 
time. The American press took up the cudgel, they took up the sword to 
have both Alaska and Hawaii become States. It was really great to see 
Hearst and Luce and so many of the leaders of the newspaper profession 
joined together to urge the American people to swell up and demand 
these bills be passed.

As the bill passed the House and came over here, there was a great 
problem because the Rules Committee chairman made it very plain that if 
there was an attempt to have a conference committee on this bill 
admitting Alaska to the Union, he would see to it that it would never 
see the light of day in the House. So our job at that time was to get 
the statehood bill passed by the Senate without one single change--not 
a comma, no paragraphs, nothing altered, and nothing changed.

I think the Senate today would appreciate that problem because those 
were the days of the true filibusters. Those were the days before the 
current rule on cloture. At that time, it took two-thirds to stop 
debate. It was something to behold, sitting in the gallery as I did, to 
see the power of Senator Scoop Jackson on the one hand and Senator 
Norris Cotton on the other--Norris Cotton being a Republican from New 
Hampshire, Scoop Jackson being a Democrat from Washington--guide that 
bill through the Senate and overcome the filibuster that was led by my 
late good friend Strom Thurmond.

It is a total tribute to the democracy we represent that this 
enormous act of admitting a State--there had not been another State 
admitted since Arizona had been admitted in 1913. Here we were in a 
post-World War II period, when part of the momentum for our getting 
statehood was, in fact, the people who had served in the Armed Forces 
and were stationed in Hawaii or in Alaska--many of them had been 
stationed in the territories and went back to the territories after 
they were released from service after we won World War II.

But this day, the day the Senate finally passed this bill, was a 
unique one.

The galleries were full. That is one reason I was up in the press 
gallery rather than over in the normal gallery for visitors. But, very 
clearly, we knew it was going to be a difficult day for us. We had 
counted votes and all of the rest trying to predict what was going to 
happen. But when it happened, I want the Senate to know, this was 
something significant that happened. The people in that photograph, 
except for the President, gathered right out in the reception room of 
the Senate. Then we went to--Republican and Democratic alike--members 
and people from the gallery, we went to the then-chapel of the Senate, 
and we offered a prayer to thank the people who had given us this new 
right.

It was one of the most significant days that I can remember in my 
life. I am proud of my colleague who has brought upon the Senate the 
idea of having some remembrance here of what went on in those days. Our 
State has become a State. We have developed our economy to be one of 
the great producers of natural resources. Many people have challenged 
that, and we are currently blocked in exploring the Outer Continental 
Shelf off our State. Two-thirds of the Continental Shelf of the United 
States is off our State.

Every well so far that has been tried has been blocked. We have been 
blocked now for 25 years at getting the right. We thought we achieved 
it in the 1980 act which set aside 1.5 million acres of the Arctic for 
oil and gas exploration and development.

I hope we will come to a time where we will realize the errors of our 
past and we will find that the day will come when the Arctic Coastal 
Plain will be opened. Once it is, the Alaska oil pipeline, which was 
built to carry 2.1 million barrels a day--it is carrying less than 
700,000 barrels a day now--will be full. Because we know from 3-D 
seismic and from the well that was drilled,


there is no question that there is oil on the Coastal Plain that some 
people call ANWR. But the development of that plain will bring us, both 
the Federal Government and the State, billions of dollars that we want 
to dedicate to the development of renewable and alternative resources.

For instance, we have half the coal of the United States. We should 
have mine-mouth conversion for coal gasification, coal liquefaction.

We have those magnificent five military bases in our State. They all 
need lots of energy. We have to find some way to assure they will have 
energy for our national defense. I think we are proceeding to the point 
that the American people know what we must have; that is, we must have 
the right to proceed to develop our resources.

Fred Seaton, whose picture was photographed there as the Secretary of 
the Interior, was an appointed Senator from the State of Nebraska. He 
made only one statement on the floor of the Senate. He was absolutely 
convinced that Alaska should become a State.

Let me read a portion of what he said:




 Alaska is as deserving of statehood, and as ready for 


 statehood, and as greatly in need of statehood, to come into 


 her own, as were any of the present States when it was their 


 turn before the bar of the Senate.



 Let us deal with the American citizens in Alaska no less 


 generously in this manner than were our forbearers dealt with 


 in their respective territories. Alaska, like all other 


 States will keep the faith and carry the grand old United 


 States tradition. Alaska's star has for too long been denied 


 its rightful place on the glorious flag of the United States 


 of America.


We, as Alaskans, are proud of what we have done. From the days we 
became a part of the United States in 1867 when Secretary Seward led 
the negotiations to buy the Territory of Alaska from Russia for a mere 
2 cents an acre, we have contributed substantially to the income, the 
resources, and to the well-being of our people.

We are the northern territory for the defense of this country. Our 
national missile defense site at Fort Greely, AK, has the capability of 
defending the whole United States, 360 degrees around, from Maine to 
Florida, from the tip of California to the tip of Alaska. That national 
missile defense site defends America.

We have committed ourselves to support those in uniform who defend 
this country and defend our way of life. So I think this is a wonderful 
thing to celebrate, the fact that the Senate took the action it did in 
approving the basic approach of the House to take the initiative to 
bring Alaska into the Union.

We were followed by our great and dear friends from Hawaii. And many 
people wonder why we are so close, those of us from Hawaii and Alaska. 
We represent offshore States. When we got here, many of the laws that 
applied to the 48 States did not apply to us. The effect of our working 
together has been that Hawaii has four Senators and Alaska has four 
Senators because we have a lot in common. We do not vote together on 
issues of national issues, that is not a position. But when it comes to 
the rights of our States, we have shown what can happen in the Congress 
of the United States when two delegations say: We are together. And as 
new States, we deserve to be recognized and treated as equal partners 
in this Union.

I am proud to speak of the alliance that we have with Senators Inouye 
and Akaka--that has been achieved in my almost 40 years here.

As I have said, Mr. President, for many days in June of 1958 I 
watched from the gallery as the Senate debated and finally passed the 
Alaska Statehood Act. That vote marked the end of our long and 
difficult road to self-determination.

Alaska was my home. I had been U.S. Attorney in Fairbanks. Working in 
Washington as Assistant to the Secretary of the Interior, Fred Seaton, 
I became involved in the battle for statehood.

Some Americans believed Alaska was too remote and too politically 
immature to become a full partner in the Union.

Alaskans worked tirelessly to show the American people and Congress 
that the Union would benefit from Alaskan statehood. My friends, Bill 
Snedden, publisher of the Fairbanks Daily News Miner, and Bob Atwood, 
publisher of the Anchorage Times, wrote to almost every paper in the 
U.S. setting forth our positions for statehood and requesting support 
for our efforts.

Alaskans reached out to their friends and family in the lower 48 
asking them to write their Senators requesting they support statehood.

Fifty-five men and women met at our constitutional convention in 
Fairbanks and devoted themselves to creating what has been called ''the 
best state constitution ever written,'' proving Alaskans had the 
political maturity to join our union.

I worked with the Secretary of the Interior, Fred Seaton, and members 
of the Eisenhower administration to explain the President's support of 
Alaska being a State.

Six years earlier Secretary Seaton had been a Senator from Nebraska. 
He served for only 1 year being appointed to fill the vacancy caused by 
the death of Senator Wherry. In his first address to this body, Senator 
Seaton spoke strongly in support of statehood for Alaska, recalling the 
doubts and objections raised when his own State of Nebraska was 
struggling for statehood.

Senator Seaton said:




 Alaska is as deserving of statehood, and as ready for 


 statehood, and as greatly in need of statehood, to come into 


 her own, as were any of the present States when it was their 


 turn before the bar of the Senate.



 Let us deal with the American citizens in Alaska no less 


 generously in this matter than were our forbearers dealt with 


 in their respective territories. Alaska, like all the other 


 States, will keep the faith and carry on the grand old United 


 States tradition. Alaska's star has for too long been denied 


 its rightful place on the glorious flag of the United States 


 of America.


Our delegate to the House of Representatives, Bob Bartlett and our 
''Tennessee Plan'' Senators and Representatives, and Alaskan pioneers 
Ernest Gruening, Bill Egan and Ralph Rivers met with Members of 
Congress to convince them to support Alaska statehood.

After the House passed our statehood bill on May 28, 1958, opponents 
in the Senate tried to stop the bill by attaching controversial, 
unrelated amendments.

Our good friend from Washington, Senator Henry ''Scoop'' Jackson led 
a bipartisan effort to fend off changes to the bill.

In the 6 days of debate prior to the vote, Senators carefully weighed 
the prospect of granting statehood to Alaska.

Alaskans are proud of all we have accomplished in the 50 years since 
that historic vote.

Through responsible development of our vast natural resources we are 
working to build a strong and vibrant economy.

Prudhoe Bay and the 800 mile Trans-Alaska Pipeline, completed in 
1977, have delivered more than 15 billion barrels of oil to the 
American economy.

In 2007 alone, Alaska's mining industry contributed an export value 
of $1.1 billion to the national economy.

Through science-based management, our fisheries have been protected 
and rehabilitated. Because of our success, Alaska's fisheries 
management principles are now used as models for fisheries across the 
country. Today half our Nation's total domestic seafood production 
comes from Alaska.

Modern water and sewer facilities and health care clinics are now 
located in most rural Alaskan communities. Through these and other 
projects and development of our natural resources, Alaskans are 
creating educational and job opportunities in the most remote corners 
of our state.

Alaskans proved our strategic military value to the Nation during 
WWII when our Territorial Guard provided a first line of defense and 
protected the terminus of the lend lease Aerial Bridge at Fairbanks.

Today Alaskans welcome and support the men and women of the 1st of 
the 25th Stryker Brigade Combat Team based in Fairbanks, the 4th of the 
25th Airborne Brigade Combat Team based in Anchorage and the 11th Air 
Force based at Elmendorf.

They, and our Alaska National Guard, have served our Nation bravely 
in Afghanistan and Iraq and around the world. Our strong tradition of 
service has resulted in more veterans per capita living in Alaska than 
in any other State.

While Alaskans have much to celebrate on our 50th anniversary of 
statehood, we continue working to accomplish more.



The Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline will deliver 4 billion cubic feet of 
domestically produced natural gas each day to homes and businesses 
throughout the United States. Our pipeline will also create 400,000 new 
jobs nationwide.

Continued development of Alaska's resources, including oil and gas 
development on the arctic coastal plain and our outer continental 
shelf, could also help deliver the energy needed to power our Nation's 
economy.

Recent estimates show that the arctic coastal plain alone could 
deliver 1.5 million barrels of oil a day to market and contribute 
billions of dollars in corporate income tax revenues and royalties to 
the U.S. Treasury.

Alaskans began our journey to statehood in 1867 when the Secretary of 
State William Seward advocated for the purchase of the territory from 
Russia for a mere 2 cents an acre. At the time the decision was 
ridiculed as ''Seward's folly.''

Alaskans have worked hard to realize the full potential of our land 
and our people. There is no doubt Alaskans have lived up to the faith 
the Senate showed in us 50 years ago when it voted to grant us 
statehood. Alaskans have earned the name of our State, ''the Great 
Land.''