---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b4f1478b0b32ca5a79f0e0db9fc9bdc6`
`Mr. REED — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am pleased to resume consideration of the 
fiscal year 2008 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and related 
agencies appropriations bill.

To recap the essentials which I discussed yesterday, the bill 
provides $109.2 billion in funding, including $44.5 billion in 
mandatory spending and $43 billion in discretionary funding for the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. Overall discretionary funding in the 
bill totals $64.7 billion. That is a $4 billion increase over the 
President's budget request. Most of the increased funding is targeted 
at expanding and improving veterans health care, which is an essential 
requirement for our obligation to the veterans, and also it recognizes 
that as generations of veterans are aging, those veterans from Korea 
and World War II and the Vietnam conflict, we also have a new era of 
veterans from Afghanistan and Iraq, and this money is essential.

This bill represents a landmark commitment to our troops and their 
families and our Nation's veterans by investing in urgently needed 
military construction projects and in expanding health care services to 
our veterans.

For the Department of Veterans Affairs, the bill includes $29 billion 
for direct medical services for veterans. This level of funding is 
equal to the amount requested by the veterans service organizations in 
the independent budget. Each year, our veterans service organizations 
prepare an independent budget, not based upon what the administration 
thinks they can afford but what veterans need. This is one of the few 
times we have been able to meet that objective of the veterans service 
organizations within their independent budget. It will allow the 
Department to increase its resources for both physical and mental 
health care for veterans, and it will give the Department the resources 
it needs to expand research and treatment of traumatic brain injury and 
post-traumatic stress disorders. At a time when scores of veterans are 
returning from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan with these often 
invisible wounds, this increased funding in this regard is urgently 
needed. It has been estimated that perhaps 30 percent of those who have 
served in Iraq or Afghanistan have received either traumatic brain 
injuries or have post-traumatic stress or both, and we have to be able 
to respond to those concerns.

The bill also includes needed funding for military construction of 
facilities


and housing for our troops and their families. We are a nation at war, 
and our military forces need the best possible facilities to work, 
train, and to hone their skills, and their families need the best 
possible housing and quality-of-life facilities, such as chapels and 
childcare centers, to see them through the strain and hardship of 
repeated and lengthy deployments.

As I have said before, this bill is supported by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs and the veterans service organizations. The President, 
in his Statement of Administration Policy released yesterday, signaled 
his intention to sign the bill as reported out of the committee, and I 
hope that intention is carried through.

There is no reason the Senate cannot complete work on this bill at a 
reasonable hour today. In fact, I have spoken with the majority leader, 
and he has indicated to me that it is his desire to move this bill 
today, to complete work on it today, and to be able to have a vote on 
final passage we hope sometime today. I urge my colleagues, if they 
have amendments they wish to offer, to bring them to the floor as soon 
as possible. It takes a long time to deal with some of these issues, to 
vet them, to clear the amendments, and the slower the amendments are 
presented to us, the longer it will take to complete action on this 
bill. But the majority leader is committed to finishing this bill 
today, and I share that commitment. The Senate cannot afford to drag 
its feet on this bill. Our men and women in uniform, our Nation's 
veterans are depending on us to provide the resources they so urgently 
need. I urge my colleagues to move quickly to pass this bill.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.