# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b4f3da2251553dfc82abfeb874f7131a`
`Mr. CALVERT — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the majority 
party's Iraq supplemental appropriations bill.

It is baffling that at the precise moment when the surge in Iraq is 
producing positive results, the majority party would like to pull the 
rug out from underneath our troops.

Violence is down. Sunnis in al Anbar have allied with U.S. forces 
against al Qaeda. Baghdad is regaining some sense of normalcy.

By no means can we declare ''victory'' but our troops can rightfully 
claim progress. Despite these positive developments, the majority party 
wants to withdraw our forces--as if the enemy won't follow us home.

I ask my colleagues on the other side of the aisle: are they prepared 
to take responsibility for the disastrous consequences of an early 
withdrawal?

Are they prepared to witness the chaos and destruction in Iraq?

Most importantly, are they willing to pass this responsibility on to 
the next generation of Americans who may be forced to finish the job we 
did not have the courage to complete?

My colleagues are right: we have made a significant financial and 
personal investment in Iraq. Let us have the courage of our convictions 
to see it through.

I urge my colleagues to reject this bill and pass a clean 
supplemental bill that provides support to those who are fighting and 
dying. We owe them that much.