---
---

# CONSUMER-FIRST ENERGY ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `b4f76940498f567cfe611283b109a6bb`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about the pain that 
$4-a-gallon gas is inflicting across the country. For the last 8 years, 
our energy policy has been stuck in the past. Today, we suffer from 
that neglect. Our national security is compromised by our alarming 
overdependence on foreign oil. Our economy is held hostage to other 
countries that control the oil reserves.

Every day--every day--most Americans, most of the 300 million 
Americans are feeling the real pain of high gas prices and diesel 
prices resulting from these failed policies.

Americans know the past all too well. Since 2001, the price of oil 
has risen more than 400 percent. The cost of a gallon of gas from 
Colorado is up almost 300 percent. Oh, yes, we all remember those dear 
old days in 2001, when in Colorado we were paying $1.08 a gallon in the 
beginning of the Bush administration. Yet today we are at $4 a gallon 
in Colorado.

U.S. expenditures during that same time period on foreign oil that we 
are importing into our country have more than tripled; a family's 
transportation costs have more than doubled. Projections show gas may 
reach $5 a gallon this summer.

But the numbers do not even begin to tell the real story of how our 
dependence on foreign oil is hurting the American people. They do not 
tell the story of the farmer in Kit Carson County, on the Eastern 
Plains of Colorado, who is worried, worried that he will not be able to 
afford the diesel needed to harvest the wheat at the end of the summer.

They do not tell the story of the trucker in Elizabeth, CO, whose 
weekly income has fallen $700 in this economy and can barely afford to 
fill his truck because fuel costs are higher than they have ever been.

They do not tell the story of how fuel prices have pushed several 
airlines into bankruptcy and led United Airlines to cut over 1,000 jobs 
in recent days.

In rural communities, in particular, gas prices are taking a huge 
bite out of the family budget. This map shows the average proportion of 
a family's income that is going for filling the tanks in counties 
across the country.

You can see which parts of the country are the hardest hit. Those are 
the rural counties, where upward of 16 percent of the entire budget is 
going for gasoline. So you see in the broad swath of what is rural 
America, this yellow area. Down here is my San Luis Valley, where 16 
percent of the family budget essentially is going to fill the tanks of 
gasoline for those families.

Across the country we are paying almost $5 billion more every day for 
oil than we did 5 years ago. These moneys are going to the Middle East, 
to Russia, and to Venezuela. They are not moneys that are staying in 
America to make us strong. Revenues for oil-producing states and oil 
companies, primarily oil companies controlled by foreign governments, 
will reach $2 trillion this year, $2 trillion.

So while American farmers and ranchers are facing $10,000-a-month 
fuel bills, Saudi Arabia is using its oil riches to build four new 
cities in the desert; the Sudanese are building new skyscrapers and 
five-star luxury hotels; and Russia, Russia is using its oil windfall 
to increase its Federal budget tenfold.

Over the last 8 years, we have not only become more dependent on 
foreign oil, today we import an increasing amount of oil from those 
foreign countries. Thanks to the failed energy policies of the past, we 
are at the mercy of OPEC and the oil-producing nations of the world.

We need to move forward with a new ethic and new imperative of energy 
independence. We must succeed in a sustained policy that is not a stop-
and-start policy on energy independence but one that will succeed in 
addressing the cause that I believe most of the Members of this Senate 
believe in; that is, to end our addiction on the importation of foreign 
oil.

How are we going to do this? First, we must continue to develop our 
domestic oil and gas resources. You heard my friends on the other side 
of the aisle say we are not doing enough, that we have not drilled 
enough in the United States of America. Yet when you look at the 2005 
Energy Policy Act which I helped craft, along with Senator Domenici and 
Senator Bingaman, that legislation took sensible steps, in my view, to 
stimulate new exploration and energy development and opened the door to 
a whole host of items on a portfolio toward energy independence.

In 2006, we worked together, again, Democrats and Republicans, to 
open an additional 8 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico for energy 
development. Those areas contained 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural 
gas and 1.26 billion barrels of recoverable oil. We were then asking 
that we produce more oil from our own resources in America.

Colorado is a proud contributor to our Nation's energy supply, and we 
are working to do more. So it is false when people say we are not doing 
things in America to produce for our energy supply. We have more than 
34,000 active gas wells in my State right now. We have almost 5 million 
acres of land under lease. We are producing 1.2 trillion cubic feet of 
natural gas each year, up sixfold from 14 years ago.

Over the coming years, we will contribute even more to our Nation's 
energy supply. The BLM estimates that over the next 20 years we could 
have 17,000 more gas wells in 3 of our western counties alone.

Let me say, are we against energy development in America? You tell me 
that the construction, the drilling of 17,000 wells in 3 of my counties 
in the State of Colorado is not contributing to the American supply of 
oil and natural gas that we need in America? We are doing a lot already 
here.

But for those on the other side who accuse us of doing nothing, they 
are wrong. I have also introduced legislation to open additional areas 
in the State to oil and gas development, including the Roan Plateau in 
western Colorado. But we want to do it the right way.

Let's not kid ourselves. Expanding domestic oil and gas production 
will not lower gas prices or kick our addiction to foreign oil. 
Americans consume 25 percent of the world's produced oil, but we hold 
less than 1.7 percent of the world's proven oil reserves.

This chart shows us a little slice of the pie that is 1.7 percent. 
One of my colleagues earlier said it is 3 percent of the world 
reserves. These are the figures from the Central Intelligence Agency. 
The CIA tells us we control 1.7 percent of the global proven reserves 
of oil. Yet we are consuming 25 percent of those reserves.

So what my colleagues on the other side are saying is that we are 
going to take this little slice of the pie and somehow magically 
address the huge oil security problems we are facing today. That is not 
accurate. We need to be honest with ourselves and the American people 
about our energy future.


We simply cannot drill our way to energy independence.

If we threw open the doors of America's most treasured landscapes to 
drilling, it would still just be a drop in the bucket. According to the 
Energy Information Administration, drilling the Arctic Wildlife Refuge 
would, at peak production, which would be somewhere between 2018 and 
2030, reduce the cost of gasoline by less than 4 cents per gallon.

We need to be honest with ourselves and the American people about our 
energy future. We simply cannot drill our way to energy independence.

Some dream that oil shale will save the day.

Oil shale deposits in Colorado, Wyoming, and Utah amount to somewhere 
between 500 billion and 1.1 trillion barrels of oil. That is more than 
double the proven reserves of oil in Saudi Arabia.

The trouble is, the oil is locked up in rock and, even after $10 
billion of research and development, nobody has figured out an 
economical way to get it out.

If the technology were ripe, companies like Shell would already be 
developing oil shale today on their own lands. Shell and other 
companies already own nearly 200,000 acres of prime oil shale reserves 
in Utah and Colorado. Nobody, not the Federal Government, not the 
Congress, not the State, is stopping them from developing these tracts. 
But they are not ready, and that's what they have all told us in 
testimony. They are still struggling to overcome technological and 
economic barriers.

We can help companies such as Shell overcome these barriers through 
research and development incentives like the ones I helped put in the 
2005 Energy Policy Act, but even under the most optimistic estimates, 
the technology won't be ready for commercialization until 2015.

So let's be honest about oil shale. Let's not pretend there is a 
magic wand that we can wave that will unlock the mystery of oil shale. 
Let's be honest about our energy future. Let's be honest with the 
American people.

Responsibly expanding our domestic production is only one part of the 
solution. As I have said repeatedly over the last 4 years, we also need 
to be improving our energy efficiency, investing in technologies, and 
developing our clean energy economy. We have taken several steps in the 
right direction.

At the end of 2007, Congress passed legislation to increase fuel 
efficiency standards in cars and light trucks by over 40 percent by 
2020. This will save over 1.1 million barrels of oil a day.

The bill we passed, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, 
also helps spur the rapid development and deployment of advanced 
biofuels, such as cellulosic ethanol. The bill quintupled the existing 
renewable fuels standard to 36 billion gallons by 2022, 21 billion of 
which must be from advanced biofuels, such as cellulosic ethanol. That 
is more than enough to offset our oil imports from Saudi Arabia, Iraq, 
and Libya combined.

I was also proud of the work we did in the farm bill to spur 
cellulosic biofuel production, which has the potential to dramatically 
reduce carbon pollution. The farm bill includes a provision I sponsored 
that provides a $1.01 per gallon tax credit for the production of 
cellulosic biofuels. It is the first incentive for cellulosic biofuels 
of its kind.

Why is this so important? Because cellulosic biofuels have the 
potential to displace 3 billion barrels of oil annually, equivalent to 
60 percent of our country's yearly consumption of oil in the 
transportation sector, without affecting our need for food, feed or 
fiber, 3 billion barrels of oil a year.

Dramatically increasing our biofuels production can and will help us 
get control of gas prices and reduce our dependence on foreign oil.

In fact, if it weren't for current ethanol production, gas prices 
would be even higher than they are today.

Merrill Lynch estimates that gas prices would be 15 percent higher if 
it weren't for our ethanol production. Do not make biofuels the 
scapegoat.

In addition, studies are showing that, as a result of our renewable 
fuels standard enacted in 2005, U.S. oil imports recently declined for 
the first time in a quarter century.

Unfortunately, there are some who just cannot accept the fact that 
biofuels can and should be a larger part of our energy future. They're 
finding any excuse to advocate yesterday's energy policies and step 
back into the past.

These renewable energy opponents claim, for one, that biofuels 
production, in particular corn ethanol production, is to blame for high 
food prices.

This is absurd. There are three factors that are driving food prices 
up, and ethanol production is not one of them.

First, food prices are rising because global demand for grains, 
particularly from China and India, is rising.

Second, the global food supply is down because of drought conditions 
in several areas of critical agricultural production. Still, U.S. 
producers are doing everything they can to boost supplies. Not counting 
corn used for ethanol production, we produced 17 percent more corn food 
product and exported 23 percent more food product overall in 2007 than 
in 2006.

Third, rising oil prices are making it more expensive to produce 
food. Petroleum costs are embedded in every part of the global food 
supply chain. Recent studies by USDA reveal that for every dollar we 
spend on food, only 20 cents is the cost of the food product itself. 
The other 80 cents or so are the costs of labor, energy, 
transportation, and other factors.

The best economic minds agree that ethanol production is having 
little, if any, effect on food prices. Ed Lazear, chairman of the 
President's Council of Economic Advisors, recently reported that 
ethanol production accounts for less than 3 percent of the increase in 
global food prices.

Those who claim that biofuels production is driving up food costs are 
flat-out wrong.

Let's not forget where today's high gas prices are hurting most, it 
is in America's rural communities. Farmers, ranchers, small business 
owners, families in small towns, they know the true cost of our 
addiction to foreign oil. They feel it every day.

They also know that the solution is not far away. They know that the 
solution lies in our farms and fields, in the promise of cellulosic 
ethanol and in the ingenuity of the American worker.

Our rural communities know we can grow our way to energy independence 
if we continue to pass and implement policies that stimulate our clean 
energy economy.

So let's not let them down. Let's not turn the clock back to the 
failed energy policies of the last 8 years. Let's not pretend that the 
1.7 percent of the world's oil reserves that we possess will meet our 
energy needs. Let's be honest with the American people. Let's build our 
clean energy economy. Let's pass the tax extenders that Senator Baucus, 
I, and others have developed that will stimulate renewable energy 
development. Let's give these growing industries the tax certainty that 
they and their investors need to move forward with projects that are 
creating good-paying jobs across the country. Let's get after the 
speculation in the oil market. And let's get to work on breaking our 
addiction to foreign oil.

I will conclude by making a few additional comments. We have heard 
from the other side of the aisle that oil shale somehow is magically 
going to develop as part of the solution for our energy independence 
and deal with gas prices today. The truth of the matter is, we 
supported the oil shale provisions in 2005 and have been moving forward 
in the development of oil shale in Colorado in a responsible way.

Yet we know that even after the investment of billions of dollars, 
the technology is some 6 to 7, maybe 8 years away before it can be even 
commercially developed, if it is proven it can be done. Yet there is 
this accusation that is coming from the other side of the aisle that 
somehow the development of oil shale is going to deal with the 
immediate crisis we face today. That is simply a false charge. We need 
to move forward and attempt to look at the development of oil shale in 
an environmentally responsible way.

Another point, before I conclude, is we need to continue to grow our 
way to energy independence. I am a proud sponsor, with Senator 
Grassley, of the 25-by-25 resolution. I think America's farmers and 
ranchers can help us move forward so we can produce 25 percent of our 
energy from renewable energy.



I am hopeful this energy crisis does not create an opportunity for us 
to take a step back on the investments we are making in biofuels. 
Biofuels are a significant way in which we will move forward to energy 
independence.

I believe strongly there are parts of our energy agenda that 
Republicans and Democrats can come together on, but I am hopeful the 
stalling tactics that keep us from moving forward to crafting an energy 
bill will end so we can deliver on solutions to the American people.

I yield the floor.