# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b4f7fe3bf7b18274fd2e0cf19820da33`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a profound debt of 
gratitude for our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Our brave soldiers are remarkable. They find themselves in a foreign 
land with regional conflicts that date back over a thousand years. 
However, they don't run and hide. They fight. They risk their lives 
helping to encourage and teach the Iraqis to take over their own 
destiny.

Our Nation's sons and daughters deserve nothing short of 
unconditional gratitude and support from their government and the 
American people. As long as I am in Congress, our soldiers will have an 
ally.

As a veteran, and a father, I will always fight to protect those who 
defend their country. I will fight for equipment and supplies. I will 
fight for their safety and protection. I will make sure they return 
home to their loved ones as quickly as possible. And I pledge they will 
NOT be forgotten once they return home.

But I will not support sending over 20,000 more young men and women 
into a fight without a plan to win and get them home. We cannot send 
more Americans into harm's way to instill a peace that the Iraqis are 
not willing to seek for themselves.

The solutions now are political not military. The Iraq Study Group 
urged the president to pursue a diplomatic solution alongside our 
military efforts.

But this president has decided to ignore the diplomatic side of the 
equation. This administration has squandered their credibility by 
losing billions in reconstruction funds, failing to adequately equip 
our troops, and failing to develop a clear plan for reconstruction in 
Iraq.

It is time for the Iraqi people to stand up and for the United States 
to begin a phased redeployment to protect American interests and take 
our troops out of the direct line of fire.

In closing, this war has created a new generation of veterans with 
new disabilities not seen in past wars. Adding insult to injury, the 
president's recent budget proposal lacks adequate funding for our 
veterans returning home. Researching post-traumatic stress disorder, 
improving suicide prevention, and providing adequate funding for 
prosthetics are crucial budget needs to serve our new veterans.

On a recent trip to the Walter Reed Army Medical Center, I met with 
several of our wounded soldiers. I pledge to them--and to all our men 
and women in uniform--that your country will take care of you. And I 
urge my colleagues to support this resolution.