---
---

# IRAQ AND THE ECONOMY
## `b4fb93f12705832e4c26ff7d552336a9`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Well, I thank my friend for the opportunity, and 
also the opportunity to spend time with two of my good friends tonight 
talking about very, very important issues.

We've focused primarily on the impact of the war in Iraq and the cost 
of the war on the domestic economy here in the United States. But when 
I look at my friend from New York and I look at my friend from Florida, 
two States that really symbolize a growing connection between our 
domestic economy and the global economy, one of the things we know is a 
lot of the issues we've talked about tonight all come back to something 
we all are charged to do when we swore to represent this country, and 
that is to provide security.



Now that may be security from harm, from foreign interests. It may be 
economic security. But it all comes together. And we know that many 
developing countries, the addiction to energy needs is what keeps them 
suppressed in reaching greater levels of economic stability, and that's 
why oil and the pursuit of oil has played such an important role in the 
last 100 years in the world economy.

By exporting our knowledge about renewable energy, about new emerging 
economies that can be shared and applied in the global economy, I think 
we can give a great gift to the American people in the return of a 
safer world, a more secure world, and a world where we have the ability 
to be able to predict with greater certainty what the current economic 
trends are going to be and set economic policies, with the assistance 
of the administration and the Federal Reserve, to address these crises 
before they become the full-blown crises that we have been talking 
about on the floor tonight.

So I look forward to working with my friends and my other colleagues 
here on both sides of the aisle in trying to provide some guidance and 
direction as we get our hands on this very important subject.