---
---

# None
## `b50e1cce30c0a258c0d9de5c72006ef7`
`Mr. LEVIN — 14 June 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, it is critically important that each time a 
soldier, sailor, airman, or marine is lost in battle, their families, 
friends, and communities are shown the respect and support of a 
grateful nation. Tragically, Michigan has lost more than 135 heroes in 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. One of the most powerful ways we 
honor those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country is to 
fly the flag they fought under at half-staff.

On many occasions during the course of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, Governors around the country have issued proclamations for 
State agencies and residents to lower our Nation's flag to honor fallen 
servicemembers from their States. Many Federal agencies in those States 
comply with such proclamations, but some have not. To those mourning 
the death of a loved one, this inaction can be hurtful and interpreted 
as indifference to their loss. I know my colleagues will agree that 
this is certainly not the message our Government wants to send to the 
families of our men and women in uniform.

This legislation would prevent this situation by giving Governors the 
explicit authority to order our Nation's flag lowered to half-staff 
when a member of the Armed Forces from their State dies while serving 
on active duty. It would also require federal agencies in that State to 
lower their flags consistent with a Governor's proclamation. The House 
of Representatives passed identical legislation on May 15. I am pleased 
that my colleagues support this legislation so that all levels of our 
Government will send a clear and consistent message when members of our 
military are killed in the course of their service to our country.

One of my greatest honors as the chairman of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee is to spend time with our troops, and they are as 
courageous, honorable, and capable a fighting force as the world has 
ever known. These men and women have made a commitment to protect our 
Nation. We need to make an equally strong commitment to honor them when 
they make the ultimate sacrifice for our country. We owe our fallen 
soldiers, their families, and their communities a unified showing of 
respect.