---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `b514f70e1b092a49e6846615c9ac8bb7`
`Mr. BURGESS — 30 September 2008`

---


Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the U.S. House of 
Representatives Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am 
submitting the following information for publication in the 
Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 
2638, Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing 
Appropriations Act for 2009:

1. Institute for Science and Engineering Simulation (lSES), 
University of North Texas--$3.36 million--RDTE,AF--Congressman Michael 
Burgess.

ISES at the University of North Texas is currently working closely 
with the U.S. Air Force to remedy a critical requirement. Due to 
increased operations as a result of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan 
during the past 5 years, Air Force aircraft are often pushed to perform 
beyond their intended design criteria: this has created serious 
concerns for safety of both the aircraft and personnel. The Air Force 
requires modeling & simulation research of the performance and 
lifecycles of materials in aircraft in order to extend the life of 
current military aircraft and to perform testing on future aircraft 
structures and material. Utilizing state-of-the-art facilities and 
equipment at the University of North Texas, the research conducted at 
ISES will be used to predict/identify and reduce the risk of 
catastrophic failure in aircraft structural components, extend the life 
of current aircraft and increase the safety of pilots and personnel.

The University of North Texas is located at 1155 Union Circle 
#311277, Denton, Texas 76203-5017.

2. Unmanned Force Augmentation Systems (UFAS), Geneva Aerospace--$2.4 
million--RDTE,N--Congressman Michael Burgess.

The UFAS program supports research, development and testing of 
advanced UAS technologies. The program is intended to facilitate the 
rapid transition of UAV systems to the warfighters that offer order-of-
magnitude improvements in usability, capability, and, hence, 
operational effectiveness. Specific program and technology areas that 
the FY09 program will support include extended development and testing 
of the Air Deployable Sensor (ADS), which is a Sonochute Launched UAS 
supported by Technology Transition Agreements with multiple Navy 
sponsors. The Air Deployable Sensor is one of several new capabilities 
developed under the UFAS program. Additional successful technology 
developments have included the development of an autonomous sense and 
avoid system for UAS in support of UAS National Airspace Integration 
initiatives, UAS autonomous takeoff and landing systems and gap-filler 
UAS designed to support a growing DOD UAS Intelligence, Surveillance, 
and Reconnaissance (ISR) capability gap.

Geneva Aerospace is located at 4240 International Parkway, 
Carrollton, Texas 75007.
