# None
## `b51da20176dc077d281db6a44146e25e`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Real quick, reclaiming my time, that is a 
perfect example of what we were talking about. I mean, you weren't 
drinking any ''Haterade'' or anything like that. You were just like, 
wow, I have constituents that would love to get the same health care.

Mr. Speaker, that is what I was talking about just 10 minutes ago, 
kids abroad having opportunities that American kids don't have, and 
then we have a President to speak passionately about our 
responsibilities in Iraq and Iraqi children. But, better yet, we have 
children here in the United States, Mr. Speaker.

I can tell you, it is so wrong, the veto that the President carried 
out. I mean, it is so wrong. I don't know how, Mr. Speaker, to be 
honest with you, I don't know how Members cannot vote to override the 
President. Because, Mr. Ryan, you know, and we said several times on 
this floor, that you have Members now, and you served with them too, 
Madam Chairman, that are watching us now and reading about the 
Congress, that was once upon a time, Mr. Speaker, a Member of Congress. 
They make bad decisions. Republicans, Democrats and independents said, 
guess what, we are going to send somebody up there that can make good 
decisions.


I am going to share with you, and if this was about politics, I 
wouldn't say this, and thank you for yielding, some of the new 
Republican Members that are on the other side can very well be reading 
the paper and watching Congress on television after next November if 
they vote against a chance for 10 million children to receive health 
care.

Mr. Speaker, I don't care who you are, I don't care where you came 
from, if you're a stone-cold conservative, Republican, what have you, 
we are talking about something that is paid for. It's not going into 
the debt. We are talking about something that provides health care for 
the most vulnerable children in the United States of America, and we 
are talking about doing the right thing as it relates to good 
government. The same individuals vote for subsidies for oil companies 
but they don't want to vote on behalf of the kids.