---
---

# DON'T ASK DON'T TELL
## `b5219cf273b74329cce9bccd8d44ce60`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 24 February 2010`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to respond to Army 
Secretary McHugh and to share the substance of an email from an active 
duty soldier in Afghanistan. In response to an inquiry from his 
commanding officer related to the military's review of the Don't Ask 
Don't Tell policy, the soldier shared how he and his partner of 10 
years have managed multiple deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan.

He explained that they survived like any couple does, except, because 
of the Don't Ask Don't Tell policy, his partner would not be informed 
in the event of his death and could not make any emergency decisions 
that would normally fall to a spouse. This situation is typical, even 
within his unit.

He learned that a fellow soldier was also gay only after he was 
killed by an IED in Iraq. The partner of the deceased's soldier wrote 
the unit to say how much the victim had loved the military, how they 
were his family.

As Admiral Mullen said, this issue is a matter of integrity. This 
immutable human trait--sexual orientation--like the color of one's 
skin, does not affect one's integrity, their honor, or their commitment 
to their country. Soldiers serving their country in combat should not 
have their sacrifices compounded by having to struggle with an 
antiquated Don't Ask Don't Tell policy.

Let's do the right and honorable thing and repeal this policy.
