---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `b52a1fa3d7b2c92d4e509eb060afbc0e`
`Mr. MURTHA — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. MURTHA. As all the Members know, most of this bill has been 
bipartisan. Bill Young and I worked almost every detail out, and it is 
for the troops in the field and the military families at home.

For military personnel, we include--and I noticed there was a Member 
up not long ago who said what they did on stop-loss. Well, I will tell 
you who did what on stop-loss, this subcommittee, this appropriation 
committee did the stop-loss, put $734 million in for 185,000 military 
servicemembers. Recognizing the hardship placed on troops, we made sure 
that they will get $500 a month because of the hardship placed on them 
for an involuntary draft, in a sense.

Additional military pay. We had several hearings on trying to figure 
out how much money the military needed to take care of the shortage of 
pay. Finally, we came down to $2.5 billion and we added that to the 
bill.

TBI and psychological health. Nobody has been more in the forefront 
than Mr. Young and myself in trying to make sure that we have money. We 
put an extra $100 million there.

Since 2001, there have been 42,600 diagnosed cases of PTSD and 58,000 
servicemembers treated for TBI. Out at Bethesda not long ago, I just 
saw the new facility for PTSD.

Orthopedic research and treatment. The bill includes $68 million. 
Nearly two-thirds of combat-related injuries require orthopedic 
procedures or treatment.

Amputee rehabilitation. We put $20 million in.

Joint family assistance. The bill includes $125.1 above the request 
and a total of $739 million for family advocacy programs.

Yellow ribbon. The bill provides $238 million for information, 
services, referrals, and outreach to the reserves for that program.

We put in money for C-17s, for 130s. We put money in for Apaches, 
helicopters, all of these things needed in the war effort.

MRAPs. We put in new MRAPs.

Strykers. We put money in for Strykers because it takes twice as 
long, and these are medical care Strykers, because it takes twice as 
long to get people to a hospital or to medical care in Afghanistan, and 
this will help that situation and reduce the time it takes to get to 
medical care.

Bradley Fighting Vehicles.

National Guard and Reserve. We put $500 million in the bill.

Guantanamo. In the initial stages we took the money out and said give 
us a plan; and, of course, the chairman has developed a plan for that.

We have withdrawal timelines from Iraq, August 31, 2010.

Training Afghanistan security forces, $3.6 billion.

Pakistan counterinsurgency fund, $400 million.

And contracting.



And on contracting, one of the things the Secretary talks about and 
we talk about is that it costs us $44,000 more to have contractors in 
Iraq than it does to have regular troops there. And we finally said to 
them, Look, you've got to start taking the nationals there, putting 
their people to work, get the Americans or the foreign people--when I 
say ''foreign,'' other than Iraqis--out of the country. So we're going 
to get a schedule of getting the contractors down.

The report includes language directing the Department of Defense to 
provide monthly reports on the number of contractors in the US CENTCOM 
Area of Responsibility. We have a heck of a time getting this. But this 
bill provides the resources and capabilities needed to support deployed 
U.S. forces.

It is a completely partisan bill, and working with Mr. Young, I 
appreciate his cooperation and ask the Members to vote positively on 
this bill.