# ROLE OF AMERICAN DIPLOMACY
## `b52bcbac92e746e5ff099a801550577b`
`Mr. BUNNING — 1 February 2007`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader and the 
minority leader for their nice words. They might disagree on certain 
issues, but I am glad they agree on one thing--that I finally made it 
to the U.S. Senate after spending 12 years in the House and did have a 
private and professional life prior to service here in the Federal 
Government. I thank both Senators.

As we prepare to discuss the war in Iraq, I would like to take a 
couple of minutes to discuss the issue of personal responsibility, 
civility, and the role of American diplomacy.

Since the founding of our great Nation, we have had a long and proud 
tradition of international diplomacy. Our diplomacy has taken many 
forms, whether it is through official state visits or through less 
formal channels, such as congressional delegations traveling to 
individual countries. What we all need to remember is that when we are 
on a trip to a foreign country, we act as American diplomats. This is 
something which I would like my colleagues to remember, especially when


they speak on American foreign policy in public international forums 
and settings. Most of our colleagues take this role seriously and act 
in a manner that is consistent with the advancements of our Nation's 
foreign policy. We should not use the international stage as an 
opportunity to denounce our own country by making irresponsible 
comments that endanger our foreign policy by sending the wrong messages 
to our enemies.

We currently face a critical turning point in our Nation's foreign 
policy.

As representatives of this Government, we need to be responsible with 
our remarks on foreign soil and to show some form of civility when 
airing our grievances about our President, our country's stand on 
diplomatic issues, and the war in Iraq.

While we do have our disagreements on how this country should 
proceed, I believe we need to iron out these problems at home rather 
than taking them to an international stage and using that opportunity 
to make politically offensive comments towards our country.

Saying our country is shameful at an international forum only hurts 
our standing among world leaders we are trying to negotiate with on 
important trade deals and other foreign policy issues such as 
preventing further international conflict.

We need to help build up America on the international stage, not 
shoot ourselves in the foot by tearing ourselves down with statements 
used for political gain.

Most Americans do not belong to the ''Blame America First'' crowd. 
Most Americans don't support bashing our country on the international 
stage. Most Americans agree that politics ends at the water's edge.

The ''Blame America First'' crowd spreads negative sentiment about 
the United States, and then wonders why the rest of the world has a low 
opinion of America. They are feeding the very beast they claim they are 
trying to tame.

Most Americans are proud of what this country stands for.

The United States is one of the largest contributors in economic aid 
to developing countries.

We continually work as a Nation to extend a helping hand to those in 
need.

Funding for bilateral and economic assistance has increased 
consecutively over the past 6 years, reaching unprecedented levels in 
the international community.

We have also taken the lead in the fight against the spread of HIV 
and AIDS.

We recognize that this pandemic is destroying lives, undermining 
economies, and threatening to destabilize entire regions.

The President's emergency plan for AIDS relief is the largest 
commitment ever made by any nation to combat HIV and AIDS.

The number of people benefiting from this program has grown from 
50,000 to 800,000 in 3 years.

It is an extremely successful program and continues to grow in 
support every year.

We also continue to provide lifesaving drugs to fight malaria to 
those in need in Africa.

Through the President's malaria initiative we have been able to 
provide millions of lifesaving treatments in order to prevent the 
spread of this debilitating disease.

These international successes often go largely unnoticed and are 
overshadowed by the current debate on the war in Iraq.

I ask my colleagues to take a moment this week to reflect upon our 
foreign policy successes as well as our current challenges.

I believe that we can build upon our mistakes and learn from them.

We must work collectively on advancing our national interests instead 
of splintering off and playing into the hands of our enemies.

Some of the proposed resolutions on Iraq send a terrible message to 
both our troops and allies and only hurt our national interests.

Even more importantly, I believe they send a dangerous message to our 
enemies.

I do not support these kinds of nonbinding resolutions that criticize 
our plans for Iraq and I plan to oppose them.

They are counterproductive and will not make our problems in Iraq go 
away now or in the near future.

I support working to find real solutions to the problem at hand, not 
politically motivated attempts that offer little or no alternative.

I will not participate in this empty political posturing.

My main focus is on providing moral and material support for our 
troops.

We must not forget our commitment to our troops and in turn the 
commitment they made to our country and the mission in Iraq.

I believe they deserve our full support, not criticism and idle 
threats to cut their funding.

Like many of my colleagues, I was initially skeptical of sending 
additional reinforcement troops to Iraq, but I believe that we must 
give the President's new strategy a chance to succeed.

Abruptly cutting and running is not a viable option.

This would only further hinder our efforts in the war on terror and 
endanger our regional allies in the Middle East.

I will support our commander and chief in his new way forward in Iraq 
and will support General Petraeus, our new commander of the 
multinational forces in Iraq, in his efforts to carry out this plan.

I believe that General Petraeus is a key component in this new 
strategy.

He is a friend.

He has spent many years of his fine career stationed at Fort 
Campbell, KY.

I have the utmost respect for him and confidence in his leadership 
skills and judgment.

His service in Iraq has equipped him with an expertise in irregular 
warfare and operations and a true understanding of the enemy we face.

In his 27 months in Iraq, he led a division into battle, oversaw the 
reconstruction and governance of Iraq's third-largest city, and built 
up from virtually nothing Iraq's army and police force.

He managed to do this all by earning the respect of the Iraqis--all 
Iraqis--the Kurds, Sunnis and the Shias.

General Petraeus and I talked, just the two of us, for nearly an hour 
in my office this week.

I asked tough questions. And he responded with realistic answers 
about what it takes for us to succeed in Iraq.

He knows that Iraqis have to live up to their end of the bargain.

Now we must show General Petraeus that we will live up to our end of 
the bargain and give him the opportunity to carry out his mission.

Some of our colleagues support General Petraeus but do not support 
his mission.

Many of our colleagues that unanimously voted to give General 
Petraeus his fourth star last week will likely vote in favor of 
proposed resolutions that question the very mission that General 
Petraeus testified in support of before the Senate Armed Services 
Committee.

This does not make sense to me. Right now we cannot afford to 
distinguish between the two.

I am not asking my colleagues for an open-ended commitment, just a 
little more patience--patience to see if this new strategy works, 
patience to see if Iraqis will hold up their end of the bargain and 
meet the benchmarks set by both our countries, and finally, patience to 
allow our troops to complete their mission.

Our troops are committed to their mission. Now we owe them our 
commitment.

This is our last best hope for progress in Iraq.

In his confirmation hearing with the Senate Armed Services Committee, 
General Petraeus offered to provide Congress with regular reports on 
the progress of his mission and on the performance and cooperation of 
Iraqis.

I plan on taking him up on this offer.

We must keep up to date on the situation in Iraq as it changes so 
that we can best help our new commander address the situation at hand.

I wish General Petraeus the best of luck in this mission.

It is a daunting task but I have faith in him and his leadership 
capabilities.

I ask my colleagues for their support.

We must show a united front and give this plan a chance to succeed.

The cost of failure is too great. We cannot afford failure in Iraq 
and the international community cannot either, so I ask my colleagues 
to reflect on these serious issues before we begin debating the 
resolutions concerning the war in Iraq next week.



Let us show both our allies and our enemies that we can be united 
behind our Nation's foreign policy.

I yield the floor.