# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b5428abb92ed93f104f124bdf01c269f`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Idaho, and I appreciate 
him coming down here and adding to this dialogue.

I had a chance to collect my thoughts a little bit during that, too, 
and a number of points that I did not make here.

First, I would like to say the argument is it is a civil war and we 
should not be involved in a civil war. We have been involved in a 
number of civil wars, and we will be involved in more civil wars. The 
same people who say we cannot be involved in a civil war say go into 
Darfur. Well, that is a civil war.

The same people said we should have gone to Rwanda. I am one of them 
that thought we should have gone to Rwanda. It was horrible. We could 
have done something about it, but it was a civil war.

And that list goes on and on, but let me define a civil war so it is 
a little more clear, Mr. Speaker, to the people that care, and that is, 
that you will be able to identify a civil war in Iraq when you see the 
Iraqi military and the Iraqi police force line up and choose up sides 
and decide they are going to start shooting at each other. They are not 
doing that. They are keeping order all that they can. They march 
forward in uniform. They stay together, and that is one thing that says 
it is not a civil war.

Another one seems to me to be the most obvious and that has not been 
brought up here, and that is, I know of no entity of the five to eight 
competing factions within Baghdad that is trying to unseat the elected 
government of Iraq. It is accepted. The people went to the polls and 
voted in greater numbers percentage-wise than we do here in the United 
States, and they elected their leaders. They ratified their 
Constitution. They elected their leaders, seated their prime minister.

So Iraq is a country that is a sovereign country. No one is trying to 
unseat the government. It is not a civil war. Yes, there is sectarian 
strife, but it is not so much to do with religion as it is so much the 
power vacuum that is going on. It is not a civil war.

We cannot constitutionally micromanage a war. The precedents for that 
are utterly weak throughout history, even though there was some 
struggle with that a number of times. But the precedent that remains 
was here in 1973, after Richard Nixon finished the Vietnamization 
process, moved our troops out of Vietnam, then a wounded President 
during the Watergate era was forced into a situation where this 
Congress shut off all funds from going to Vietnam, and that was on the 
land of Vietnam, in the skies over Vietnam and the seas offshore 
Vietnam.

The bill, and I just looked at it again yesterday and I read it a 
number of times, the bill said none of these funds or any funds 
heretofore appropriated shall be used on Vietnam, over Vietnam or 
offshore in Vietnam, which kept all of our military from supporting the 
South Vietnamese Army which was defending itself after the Treaty of 
Paris and the resolution of that issue.

Now the North Vietnamese broke the treaty. The South Vietnamese did 
not have support. They did not have munitions, which we promised them. 
They did not have air cover, which we promised them. We could not even 
do a naval bombardment to support them from the seas because this 
Congress jerked the rug out from underneath that. And the disgrace lies 
yet in our history books.

Sam Johnson also went back to Saigon here just not too long ago, 
within the last number of weeks, and laid a wreath at the U.S. embassy 
where we lost 10 to 12 Marines as you saw them being air lifted off the 
top of the U.S. embassy. Ten to 12 marines does not sound like much. 
That was the cry and the agony of a Nation, but those 10 to 12 Marines, 
think in terms of the millions of skulls that are piled in southeast 
Asia that came in the aftermath of the Vietnam War, the human tragedy.

I would say, Mr. Speaker, that none of us could pick up one of those 
skulls in The Killing Fields, and say this was


a Cambodian skull or a Vietnamese skull or an American skull. And I can 
tell you, God does not draw the distinction, but he understands what 
goes on in a conscience of humanity and the conscience of a Nation.

One would think that this Congress, Mr. Speaker, would have learned 
from that colossal error and be able to stand and have enough resolve 
when we are in a situation where Baghdad is surrounded, and by the way, 
Baghdad is not a stronghold. I asked a commanding general at the time 
of our ground forces within Baghdad, and I said, What is this about a 
stronghold? Are there places you cannot go? He said we go everywhere we 
want to go. We go when we want to go there. Sometimes we do not want to 
squabble. Sometimes we go in there because we want to pick a fight, but 
there is no such thing as a stronghold. So that resolves that.

I wrote an editorial a while back, Mr. Speaker, and released about 
December 20 because December 22 was the anniversary of General 
McAuliff's retort to the Nazis at the battle of Bastone. History will 
record, and you will remember, Mr. Speaker, the 101st Airborne in World 
War II was surrounded in Bastone. Bastone, a city that had seven 
highways coming to it, it was the confluence of the transportation and 
a critical area that had to be held and controlled for whichever side 
was going to be successful in the Battle of the Bulge.

When the Nazis surrounded the 101st at Bastone and were mercilessly 
shelling them, they sent a message in that demanded our surrender. 
General McAuliff's response was, ''Nuts.'' Nuts, Mr. Speaker. Nuts, 
Nazis. They had to go all kinds of linguists and ask what does this 
mean? How do you translate this into German? It did not translate very 
well into German because that was the American spirit that echoed 
through that word, ''nuts.'' Nuts, we have got you right where we want 
you. We are going to stay and hold our ground.

They did so, and to this day, the 101st will tell you, they did not 
really need Patton to relieve them, they would have won anyway. But 
Patton did come, history shows. They held their ground. Bastone was 
held. The Battle of the Bulge was turned back and the Nazi regime was 
destroyed forever because of American courage and American guts and an 
America that said ''nuts'' when they were surrounded in Bastone.

Mr. Speaker, today, 2,499 parts of 2,500 parts of Iraq are 
essentially pacified, and are there under our control. Parts of Baghdad 
essentially are all that is left.



Baghdad surrounded, it is not a stronghold. And if we pull out of 
there, history will rule us as nuts. Nuts, a weak nation, a weak nation 
that didn't have the resolve, Mr. Speaker.

I will put one more point in here, and hopefully I can get this done 
within the time that I have, and that is the straddle that is taking 
place with this resolution, Mr. Speaker. The straddle that gives the 
majority side of this thing an argument that they are right, no matter 
what the results are in Iraq. And that is, the way the resolution 
reads, they support the troops but oppose the mission.

Then they go on and say, we are going to do a slow bleed. Jack Murtha 
says we are going to do a slow bleed and we are going to eliminate the 
President's ability to conduct these operations in Iraq.

Well, all right. So if the President's plan succeeds and Baghdad is 
pacified and the government of Iraq grows stronger and more stable, you 
will hear from over this side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, over and over 
again, ''See,'' they are going to say, ''we were right. It took us to 
encourage the Iraqi government and the Iraqi military to step up to the 
plate and do the job. If we hadn't done that, the Americans would have 
held their hand and been their training wheels forever. They never 
would have learned to defend their country.'' That will come out of 
that side if history makes it clear that we are successful in Iraq.

And if we deploy out of there and Iraq turns into what I believe will 
be a disastrous chaos and cede the Shi'a region of the Iraq to the 
Iranians, who essentially have significant influence in there now, that 
would be 70 to 80 percent of Iraq's oil as well. It would give Iran 
control of the global export quantity of the oil. Iran would then have 
control of 42.6 percent of the oil that would go on the market, which 
is absolutely enough to control the market and enrich them 
fantastically and let them buy their nuclear capability and intimidate 
everyone in the Middle East and everyone in Europe and intimidate the 
United States as well. They would not be limited.

That is what happens if we pull out and the catastrophe, not to 
mention the human catastrophe, not to mention all the skulls that will 
be stacked up in Iraq like they were stacked up in Southeast Asia to 
the numbers of 3 million. That is the catastrophe there, Mr. Speaker.

But I am going to compare this. There was only one country that was 
guaranteed to be on the winning side in World War II, and that was 
France, because they were on both sides, Mr. Speaker. They were on both 
sides because you had Charles de Gaulle's freedom fighters, and they 
had gone into exile into Great Britain and continued their ''Free 
France'' battle going on. That was part of the effort, and we supported 
and helped them.

But you also remember there was the Vichy French. The Vichy French 
jumped right into bed with the Nazis and they staked their claim there, 
and that was Marshall Petain. And the French, not much of their country 
was destroyed really in World War II. Paris certainly held together 
pretty good, and I am glad it did.

But if the Nazis had won and prevailed, the Vichy French would have 
emerged to the top. And then the French would have said, see, we got on 
the right side of this war, we avoided a lot of conflict, and Marshall 
Petain now is our president who is cutting a deal with Hitler. Or, as 
it turned out, it turned out to be Charles de Gaulle instead.

Straddle the issue, go right down the middle, prepare yourself to be 
on the victorious or at least be right, no matter what the results.

That is what this resolution does, Mr. Speaker. It allows the 
majority party and those that voted for this resolution to make the 
claim that they are right, no matter what happens. And they brought not 
one word of strategic plan to resolve this issue in Iraq. Not one. In 4 
days of debates, not a single plan came out of that side of the aisle, 
not one.

None came out in the campaigns, either. They never stepped up and 
said, ''This is what I would do.'' Except some said, ''I would cut and 
run. I just wouldn't call it that.'' Some of that went on. But, beyond 
that, there was nothing, except they said we need a strategic plan, we 
need a better plan.

And one of them came here to the floor and said, ''I used to command 
a carrier task force offshore of Afghanistan,'' which would be by my 
look of the map the Arabian Sea. And he says, ''My job now is to come 
here and plan a strategy to resolve the issue in Iraq.''

And I reflected, Judge Louie Gohmert found himself wanting to 
legislate from the bench in Texas, so he ran for Congress because he 
knew constitutionally this was the place to legislate.

But that Member, Mr. Speaker, if he wanted to micromanage a war, 
should have kept command of his task force and the Arabian Sea. This is 
no place, Mr. Speaker, to micromanage a war. Our job constitutionally 
is to fund it, and the Commander in Chief's job is to run it, and we 
have endorsed his authority to do that.

As these amendments come and these appropriations bills come, one 
after another in this slow bleed that has been promised, we will know 
that the constitutional authority doesn't exist to do that. The 
President has the authority to take the money that has been 
appropriated and to do intradepartmental transfers and I will say 
interdepartmental transfers as well to fund the military however he 
sees fit to protect this Nation.

And if this party sees fit to starve our military and put them at 
risk, then woe are we. But they have also taken responsibility for the 
results of this war by this.

So I will say, Mr. Speaker, this resolution that passed here on the 
floor today, it assists our enemy. It assists our enemy. It assuages 
our enemy. It


encourages our adversaries. It provides benefit for our enemies. It 
encourages the bad guys. It provides comfort and charity to the 
criminals. It encourages and exhilarates our enemy. It provides favor 
and gifts to the enemy, our foe. It is a handout. It is help to the 
insurgents. It is relief and reward for the opposition. It is salvation 
and succor for terrorists. It emboldens and encourages.

This day on this floor of the United States Congress will live in 
infamy, and I pray it may not be a precedent for the future of America 
and for our national destiny.

Mr. Speaker, I would make another point, and that is I have decided I 
will follow General Petraeus, and you have decided you will follow 
General Pelosi.
