---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b548dc2d48b2ec3b0ce992dfe4ddc308`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, my friends on the other side were 
saying that this is about politics, and I would like to say that this 
is not about politics. This is about governing, Mr. Chairman, something 
the Republicans in Congress know very, very little about.

Now, we have heard lectures today about spending too much money. $4 
trillion under the Republican watch, Mr. Chairman, borrowed from China, 
Japan and OPEC countries with a Republican House, a Republican Senate, 
a Republican President. Mr. Chairman, I hope the Republicans will spare 
us the lectures on fiscal responsibility.

And then, Mr. Chairman, they start saying that, well, you're spending 
it, but you're not spending it right. You can spare us the lectures on 
spending. Need we bring up Katrina, need we bring up Iraq, Mr. 
Chairman? We don't really need lectures from the most blatantly 
irresponsible spending Congress in the history of this illustrious 
body.

Now, the Homeland Security Department was created by the Republican 
Party, Mr. Chairman. They ran on it. They ran campaigns against Max 
Cleland on it. They created it. And so now they're saying that if we 
actually fund it to protect the country, that somehow we're doing 
something wrong. That's what you do with programs that work; you fund 
them.

And now more to the point of what I think the real substance of this 
argument is really all about: The National Intelligence Estimate said 
that the war in Iraq has created more terrorists around the globe. That 
means, Mr. Chairman, that there are more terrorists out there now than 
there were before, and they're all coming to get us here in the United 
States. President Bush even says all the time, You know, if we don't 
fight 'em over there, they're going to come over here and get us.

So what we're trying to do in this bill is to protect the homeland. 
We're trying to protect against all those terrorists that have been 
created in the last 5 years, that have joined al Qaeda and all of these 
other groups that now want to come over here. We're trying to actually 
protect the homeland.

So we want to secure the ports. We want to make sure we have the 
first responders. You're impeding progress with the shenanigans that 
have been going on here the last 24 hours.