---
---

# None
## `b54d2ed08a95663acac593efd79a0f43`
`Mr. GINGREY — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Madam Speaker, I thank you. And it's indeed an honor to 
be here tonight to talk with my colleagues about something that's going 
on in the world today that is of huge import. And no, I'm not talking 
about who was the victor in the NCAA Final Four Basketball Tournament.

I'm not here to talk to my colleagues about who might be the winner 
this year of the American Idol contest, as we get closer and closer and 
that draws the interest of so many of television viewers throughout the 
country.

What I'm talking about tonight, Madam Speaker, is probably the most 
important thing that this country has on its plate in a long, long 
time, and that is the situation in the Middle East and what's going on 
in Iraq and Afghanistan and how important that conflict is, not just to 
this country and its citizens, but the region in the Middle East and, 
indeed, the entire world, Madam Speaker, as we continue to wage, as we 
have for the last 5/1/2/ years, this battle, this war against global 
terrorism. And ground zero, Madam Speaker, make no mistake about it, 
ground zero is in Iraq.

Today our commander there, of the multinational force Iraq, General 
David Petraeus, and the United States Ambassador, Ambassador to Iraq, 
Ambassador Ryan Crocker, are here in Washington, D.C. to testify before 
both the United States Senate and in this chamber, the United States 
House of Representatives, to the Armed Services Committee of both the 
House and the Senate, and to the Foreign Affairs Committee of both 
bodies. General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker spoke to the Senate 
today in a full, long day of testimony, and they will be speaking 
tomorrow to the House committees that I just mentioned.

Madam Speaker, along with yourself and many other very fortunate 
Members of this House of Representatives, I do serve on the Armed 
Services Committee, and I certainly look forward to hearing from these 
two great men who have served so well and for so long in a difficult 
part of the world, and also to have the opportunity to ask some 
questions, and I'm sure some of them will be tough questions, hard 
questions for Members of both political bodies, both the majority and 
the minority.

So, as I say, this opportunity tonight, on behalf of my party, the 
Republican minority, to take this hour and talk about this and try to 
explain to my colleagues that this is really, we are at a critical 
point in this war in the Middle East. And we have an opportunity, as 
I've felt for a long time, as I felt last September when General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker first came before the committees and 
explained that the surge that we enacted in January of 2007 is, indeed, 
working. And what they said last September is that we need to give it a 
chance.

Indeed, if you made an analogy to a sporting event, you might say 
that we're in the fourth quarter of a tough game, and at times, indeed, 
January of 2007 and several months before that, it did appear that we 
were losing. Members of this body and the other body in leadership 
positions made some pretty drastic statements, even to the extent of 
saying the war's lost, it's hopeless, it's a hopeless situation; we 
need to just pack up and come home.

But General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker, last September told us, 
no, that is not the case because we did change courses. We listened to 
the recommendations of the Iraqi Study Group, co-chaired by a very 
prominent Democrat and Republican, and we listened very carefully to 
their recommendations in regard to what needed to be done. And this 
surge of about 30,000 additional troops has certainly given us the 
opportunity to regain control and get the upper hand against these 
Islamic extremists and thugs that could, and would, and are determined 
not only to destroy Iraq, but to make that country the base of their 
support. And, yes, of course I'm talking about al Qaeda.

Anyone who thinks, Madam Speaker, that Iraq is not ground zero now 
for al Qaeda simply is ignoring the words of Osama bin Laden.

So we are, as General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker said, we are at 
a very critical point. And today, the evidence will show, and during 
this next 45 to 60 minutes of time that me and some of my colleagues on 
our side of the aisle will have to discuss this, we are going to 
present the evidence that we are succeeding. We have not won yet, but 
we're ahead in the fourth quarter, and this is certainly not the time 
to pull our team off the field and say, well, you know, they're tired, 
they're stressed; the ranks are thin. It's cost us too much money. And 
hey, you know, we may have some conflict break out somewhere else in 
the world, and we have to be ready for that. Maybe 6 months from now, 
maybe a year from now, maybe 10 years from now.

So this approach, strategy of giving up something that we have almost 
won, after sacrificing 4,000 killed in action, and closer to 20,000 of 
our brave men and women severely wounded, and an untold number, maybe 
as many as 100,000 Iraqi civilians who have also given their lives for 
the cause, it makes no sense to this Member, Madam Speaker, that you 
would give up at such a critical, crucial time.

So what we're going to talk about tonight is really four things. I 
want to concentrate on four things. And as I say, hopefully, a number 
of my colleagues will be able to finish up their previous engagements 
and be here with me on the floor, because these Members are members of 
the Armed Services Committee and the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
the United States House of Representatives. And they, Madam Speaker, 
know of what they speak.

And what we're going to do is break it down, as I say, into four 
areas of discussion. The first area would be to talk about where are we 
today? What difference has a year made? Actually, it's a little more 
than a year. January of 2007. But it took until October, just this past 
fall, to get all of the additional troops and their support, logistical 
support into the theater. And you really couldn't expect a lot of 
change in the battle until we got the full force of those 30,000 
additional troops. And you, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues, we all 
refer to that as the surge. And this was what was recommended by 
General Petraeus.


And so we're going to talk about it, what a difference a year makes, 
and talk about some of the statistics about overall violence and 
progress. And the statistics don't lie. You can't put spin on numbers. 
Numbers are what they are. And I think the numbers, when we finish this 
special order hour, Madam Speaker, I think my colleagues will agree 
that by any standard, any parameter, any metric that I talk about, 
you'd have to say that the surge that was essentially envisioned, 
planned by General Petraeus, is, indeed, working, maybe even far better 
than he expected.

And the second thing that I'll talk about is, what would victory look 
like? You know, we're on track. We're not there yet. I think it would 
be presumptuous, maybe even naive of me to say that we have victory in 
our grasp, or to suggest that the mission is over, we won. No, we're 
not there yet.

And I think the violence that broke out recently in Basra, the second 
largest city in Iraq, after Baghdad, the port city where every drop of 
oil that's taken out of the ground, those 2/1/2/ to 3 million barrels a 
day from the reserves in the country of Iraq, they flow out of that 
port at Basra. And there's been a lot of violence there. And, you know, 
that's some disappointing news after we have had a string of several 
months of good news and great statistics.

But we know from that little wake-up call that there's still a lot of 
work to be done. Unfortunately, as has been the case in so many 
conflicts throughout the course of the history of our country, we have 
had to take the lead so many times. And we have had strong allies, 
certainly, the Brits have been a great ally of ours throughout history, 
and continue to be. But the fact is that they're citizens are, they're 
not as supportive, maybe, from time to time, as we would like for them 
to be.



And it's very difficult for their parliament to keep troops as part 
of our multinational force. There are some in Basra, but something like 
a thousand British troops were removed from that


critical area, which they have had responsibility for since day one of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. A lot of those troops were brought home for 
political reasons in September of 2007, and it weakened our situation 
in Basra. We are paying the price today, I think, because of that, but 
we will talk about these statistics, and we will certainly talk about 
what victory would look like.

The third point that I am going to ask my colleagues to discuss, and 
I will discuss as well, is the fact that despite these overwhelming 
statistics and the progress that we've made, there are Members in this 
body, in this town, the media, voices, that say and continue to say, it 
is not worth it. It is not worth it. It is not worth the lives that we 
have sacrificed. It is not worth the money that we've spent. Even 
achieving victory is not worth it. We need to bring the troops home and 
spend that money on social welfare programs, on health care for 
everybody, and maybe a $5,000 tax rebate for every man, woman, and 
child in the country. There are other things that we could do to spend 
that $10 billion a month that this war is costing us. Now, I want to 
talk about that, and we will get into it.

And then lastly, and maybe most important tonight, we will talk about 
the consequences of failure, the consequences of withdrawal, which I am 
absolutely convinced, if done prematurely, will lead, inevitably, to 
failure.

So we will conclude by talking about the consequences of that. And I 
think, as my colleagues listen, it will be quite sobering to them as 
they think in their mind and understand, and this is an intelligent 
body of 435 great Americans, of people who have served this country 
well and representing their districts well, but sometimes we need a 
wake-up call. Sometimes we really, Mr. Speaker, need a wake-up call. 
And that's why we do these Special Orders on both sides of the aisle.

But tonight, I don't think there really is anything more important to 
talk about than the situation in the Middle East, and I'm proud to have 
this opportunity, and it's a great honor and a privilege.

I see my colleague from Tennessee, one of my classmates who joined 
with me in the 110th Congress. We were both elected in 2002. We both 
had served, me in the State of Georgia, she in the State of Tennessee, 
in the General Assembly; and we are part of a proud group of, I think 
there were 53 freshman back in 2003 as we got here. And we all, I'm 
sure, felt like we had the answers to all problems and that we were 
going to solve all of the country's problems and the world's problems. 
And I can tell you that we haven't, but we haven't given up, and we 
will continue to work hard.

So it's an honor to be joined now by the gentlewoman from Tennessee, 
my good friend and outstanding Member, Marsha Blackburn.