# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `b557f172a39fd548a9bbd0b4be2cce1b`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 7 October 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I rise today to support the comprehensive 
review of our Afghanistan policy being conducted by the Obama 
administration. This is the right time for such a review because 
conditions have changed since the President's strategy was announced on 
March 27. I have traveled to the region twice since then--first in 
April and again last month--and can confirm the recent observations of 
General McChrystal that the Taliban has made inroads in Afghanistan and 
the situation is deteriorating and serious. At the same time, political 
dynamics have changed in the region. There have been flawed elections 
in Afghanistan, and an emboldened Pakistani military has taken actions 
against elements in the Taliban in Pakistan. In light of these 
developments, we must give the President the time he needs to review 
the strategy and reevaluate the mission.

Today marks 8 years since the U.S. military entered Afghanistan, but 
if there is one message I hope to convey to the American people today, 
it is that we have not been there in earnest since 2003. After 
launching a successful NATO campaign against al-Qaida and the Taliban-
led government that sheltered it, resources were diverted to Iraq in 
2003 before the job was finished. We essentially left Afghanistan to 
invade Iraq, and the result in Afghanistan was a resurgent Taliban and 
failure to capture Osama bin Laden.

This was not the first time we left Afghanistan. After resourcing the 
Afghans throughout the 1980s in their efforts to beat the Soviets, we 
abruptly ended our support in 1989 after Soviet troops withdrew. We 
were then absent for 12 years until 9/11.

Historically, and especially since 2003, our commitment to 
Afghanistan has been wavering and halfhearted. This has created a 
deficit of trust in the minds of the Afghans, especially among those 
who have allied with us and faced the prospect of life or death in our 
absence. I wish to repeat that. This has created a deficit of trust in 
the minds of Afghans, especially among those who have allied with us 
and faced the prospect of life or death in our absence.

As we enter the ninth year of the war, it is critical to reassess our 
strategy so we can get it right. This is why the President's review 
must be complete and must be comprehensive. It is not just about combat 
troops or the McChrystal report. Troops are just one part of the puzzle 
and the report submitted by General McChrystal is just one input. The 
President must consider multiple perspectives on the political and 
regional situation from U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl Eikenberry, 
U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan Anne Patterson, and the Special 
Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, Richard Holbrooke. He must 
also weigh broader concerns from the Department of Defense, including 
overall force structure and other global military requirements. The 
review will take time. There are many complex issues to deal with in 
Afghanistan which closely relate to our policy in Pakistan.

The President will present his plan to the American people when he 
has made his decision. At that time, Congress will be an important part 
of the process and will hold hearings on the President's plan, as it 
did with the President's plans in Iraq. Then each Member of Congress 
will cast the most important vote for any Member of this body: whether 
to send additional troops abroad and how to protect them. That debate 
should not be about politics.

I believe we must look at this challenge as a sum of the parts, and I 
wish to raise two primary questions. The first is about our mission and 
our objectives, which have been complicated by changes on the ground 
since March. The second is about waging an effective counterinsurgency 
strategy and what it would take to meet those requirements in 
Afghanistan. After we review our mission strategy in Afghanistan, we 
must also review how it correlates to our strategy in Pakistan. I will 
take each one of these questions in turn, both to give an indication of 
the complexity of the decisionmaking process and to share my 
observations on each subsidiary question.

First, the President must ask: What are our missions and objectives? 
In March, he presented his mission statement:




 To dismantle, disrupt, and defeat al-Qaida and its safe 


 havens in Pakistan, and to prevent the return to Pakistan or 


 Afghanistan.


He also laid out key objectives: promoting a more capable, 
accountable, and effective government in Afghanistan, developing 
increasingly self-reliant Afghan security forces that can take the lead 
in counterinsurgency and counterterrorism, and assisting efforts to 
enhance civilian control and stable government in Pakistan.

As I have said, since March there have been at least three specific 
changes to the situation.

First, there were flawed Presidential elections in August which have 
further eroded confidence between the Afghan people and the government.

When I was in Afghanistan in April, there was hope--real hope--that 
these elections would lead to real change and progress. Unfortunately, 
the outcome has been a worst-case scenario, validating the fears of 
those who view the Afghan Government as plagued by corruption. As each 
day passes, the steady stream of election fraud revealed in the media 
further undermines trust in the Karzai government. This is especially 
harmful to our overall counterinsurgency strategy because the goal is 
to build support among the Afghan people for their government. 
Remember, this is not--not--between us and the Taliban, it is between 
the Afghans and the Taliban, and the perception of government 
corruption only strengthens the Taliban.

Second, we must review the challenges of training the Afghan national 
security forces.

While the Afghan National Army has demonstrated an ability to fight, 
there are serious questions about its size and effectiveness, and 
problems are even


worse among the Afghan National Police. Recruitment has been slow, 
attrition has been high, there are no noncommissioned officers, and 
many among the ranks are illiterate.

To build the ANA and ANP, we need to overcome limiting factors in the 
dearth of leadership development, qualified recruits, infrastructure, 
trainers, and equipment. During my trip to Helmand Province last month, 
I was struck by the side-by-side image of the Afghan Army troops in 
Toyota pickup trucks and U.S. troops in Mine Resistant Ambush Protected 
Vehicles, or MRAPS.

There is widespread recognition that there is a long way to go before 
the Afghan security forces can be self-sufficient and that the training 
plan requires adjustments.

We are now embedding American trainers with Afghan battalions to 
enhance leadership development, but we continue to do this better, 
which is why I strongly support Senator Levin's plan to prioritize and 
focus on training the Afghan Army and police. Specifically, I agree 
that we must expedite the training, equipping, and support for the army 
and police so they can double in size to 240,000 for the army and 
160,000 for the police, not by 2013 but by 2012, and hopefully by the 
end of 2011. Based on my September trip to Afghanistan with Senators 
Levin and Reed, I believe this training can be expedited with the 
necessary focus and resources. This must--I say, must--be a top 
priority because our overall goal is not nation building in 
Afghanistan; it is self-sufficiency for the Afghans so they can provide 
for their own security, much like what has happened in Iraq.

The third changed condition we must consider is recent developments 
in Pakistan. When I traveled there in April, the situation was grave. 
The tension between the Pakistani Government and the Taliban was 
mounting. The deal that was cut with the Taliban to relinquish control 
over Swat Valley was unraveling, the Frontier Corps did not have the 
capacity to ''clear and hold'' in the tribal areas and border region, 
and I walked away very concerned about the overall political situation.

Immediately after the trip, the Pakistani military took decisive 
action against the Taliban in Swat Valley and has since regained 
control of the area. With our help, the Frontier Corps is building its 
capacity, and we just passed the Kerry-Lugar legislation, which would 
triple economic aid to Pakistan.


On my most recent trip in September, it was clear the political 
security environment had improved, but I still remain concerned about 
al-Qaida and its allies continuing to use Pakistan as a safe haven.

As we review our mission--taking into account these three 
developments and changing conditions--we must also consider the 
strategy used to meet our objectives. In March, the President announced 
''an integrated civilian-military counterinsurgency strategy'' for 
Afghanistan. Partnering with the population and training local security 
forces has proven to be the best way to defeat insurgencies over time. 
Let me repeat: Partnering with the population and training local 
security forces has proven to be the best way to defeat insurgencies 
over time. Therefore, the second principal question we must ask is, Do 
we have the requirements necessary for waging an effective 
counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan?

Before I address these questions, let me say that I am struck--truly 
struck--by how quickly the military has adapted to counterinsurgency 
and how, from the bottom up, it has been adopted. Since General 
Petraeus wrote the U.S. Army/Marine Corps Counterinsurgency Manual in 
2006, counterinsurgency has become fundamental to our military 
doctrine.

As long as we maintain the strength of our conventional forces, it is 
increasingly unlikely anyone will take on the U.S. military through 
conventional means. Let me repeat that. As long as we maintain the 
strength of our conventional forces, it is increasingly unlikely anyone 
will take on the U.S. military through conventional means. We must, 
therefore, prepare to fight future wars against insurgencies, nonstate 
actors, and asymmetrical forces. As such, the military, under the 
leadership of Secretary Gates, is rebalancing its budget and making 
other fundamental changes.

This is remarkable to me because any large organization, especially 
one as large as the U.S. military, is like a supertanker: it just does 
not turn easily. Through an incredible organizational effort, however, 
this supertanker has changed course, and I am truly impressed by the 
extent to which DOD and the U.S. military have accomplished this and 
have embraced counterinsurgency, from the privates to the four-star 
generals.

Counterinsurgency is a four-step process: First, shape a strategy; 
second, clear the area of insurgents; third, hold the area; and fourth, 
build through governance, essential services, and economic ability. It 
is important to note that troops are just one part of a 
counterinsurgency strategy. Equally important is training the 
indigenous security forces, providing essential services, promoting 
economic development, and strengthening systems of governance.

General McChrystal has recommended a full counterinsurgency approach 
in Afghanistan. As he mentions in his report, we should not resource 
the mission without reconsidering the strategy, and focusing on troop 
levels or resources alone ''misses the point entirely.'' Therefore, I 
ask again, do we have the requirements for an effective 
counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan? In order to explore this 
question, we must look at three key areas--governance, training, and 
the civilian role--and ask the following questions: First, can the 
Afghan Government offer a winning alternative to the Taliban? Second, 
can we train enough Afghan troops and police to meet the required 
number of counterinsurgents? Third, do we have enough civilians? 
Finally, we must also consider how to develop an effective strategy for 
reintegrating low-level insurgents.

Counterinsurgency is about trust building between the local 
population, the security forces, and the government. Without trust, we 
cannot expect sustainable progress, and that is why I am particularly 
concerned about allegations of fraud in the Afghan elections.

If this were a political campaign, there would be no need to run 
negative ads against the Taliban. According to the polls, the Taliban 
has only 6 percent support among the Afghan population. This is the 
good news. The bad news is that in the absence of jobs, credible 
governance, and essential services, this does not translate into 
support for the Afghan Government by the Afghan people. This is why we 
cannot just target the Taliban or insurgents. We must help the 
government develop a capacity to provide for its people so it can be 
viewed as credible and effective.

This is why the outcome of the recent election must be resolved in a 
clear manner so that whatever trust remains between the Afghan people 
and the government is not further diminished. We must ask--can we 
succeed in a counterinsurgency with a Karzai government tainted by 
allegations of fraud and corruption? How do we recalibrate our strategy 
in light of the recent flawed elections?

The second question I would like to raise is about the amount of 
counterinsurgents we need to succeed. Counterinsurgency doctrine tells 
us that troop size is not determined by the size of the enemy, but 
rather, by the size of the population. As such, we need a ratio of one 
counterinsurgent for every 50 citizens. The latest CIA World Factbook 
estimates the population of Afghanistan at 28 million, which means that 
we need roughly 560,000 ''boots on the ground'' which includes Afghans, 
NATO troops, and Americans.

During our visit, we learned that there have been 94,000 Afghan 
National Army and 82,000 Afghan National Police trained as of August. 
This brings the total number of trained Afghans to slightly less than 
200,000. Combine this with 68,000 U.S. troops by the end of the year, 
and 38,000 NATO forces, and we have reached nearly 300,000. This is 
slightly more than half of the requisite number of troops, and is 
overly-generous in assuming that all trained Afghan security forces are 
combat ready and effective. Just by comparison, in Iraq, a country of 
two-thirds the size, there are already more than 600,000 trained 
security forces.

No one is suggesting we fill this enormous vacuum with American 
troops,


which is why we must focus on expediting training for the Afghans. And 
this is what Senators Levin, Reed, and I heard was wanted and needed by 
the Afghans themselves during our recent visit.

In the Garmsir District of Helmand Province, we met with more than 
one hundred local Afghans and tribal elders who insisted they want to 
independently secure their own population. They realize the need for 
U.S. troops to help to train and equip the Afghan National Security 
Forces, and recognized that American assistance is needed to accomplish 
this mission. But once the Afghans are able to provide security for 
themselves, they will be ready for us to end our military presence. In 
the words of the elders--once the Afghan security forces are trained, 
we will be welcome simply as ''guests.'' In the meantime, we have to 
find a way to prioritize training, so Afghans can eventually fill the 
security vacuums with minimal American assistance.

The third question regarding an effective counterinsurgency strategy 
is: do we have enough civilians to implement counterinsurgency in 
Afghanistan, and how can we expedite the deployment and training of 
civilians?

According to counterinsurgency strategy, once the troops have cleared 
and held an area with the support of Afghan Security Forces, civilians 
must partner with Afghans to build. And we need hundreds of additional 
civilians on the ground to fulfill a wide range of non-military 
requirements including improvements in agriculture, economic 
development, essential services, and governance.

We have heard lots of talk in Washington about the need for a 
''civilian surge'' to complement the additional troops President Obama 
has pledged for Afghanistan this year. Many of those civilians have 
been hired, and the State Department expects to have nearly 1,000 
civilians on the ground in Afghanistan by the end of this year. I 
support these efforts, but still believe that more must be done to 
build a stronger civilian capacity in Afghanistan.

During a visit to Camp Atterbury in Indiana last week, I met with 38 
civilians deploying to Afghanistan. At Atterbury, civilians train with 
the military to cultivate an integrated approach and greater unity of 
mission. Like our soldiers, these civilians volunteer to leave their 
families behind and put themselves in harm's way to better the future 
of Afghanistan. We owe them and their families a debt of gratitude for 
their service, and we must ensure they have the tools, support, and 
training they need to succeed.

Civilians serving in Afghanistan from across the interagency are 
sharing trir expertise in everything from agriculture to governance, 
counternarcotics, accounting, energy, development, and education. The 
role of the military and civilians are complementary--one cannot 
succeed without the other. This is why military officials including 
Secretary Gates and General McChrystal are some of the strongest 
advocates for a deepened civilian commitment to Afghanistan. To succeed 
in counterinsurgency, we must do everything we can to expedite and 
increase the recruitment and deployment of qualified civilians.

Finally, when formulating an effective counterinsurgency strategy, we 
must ask if we have developed a plan for reintegrating low- and mid-
level Taliban. I am not suggesting we speak with Mullah Omar or other 
members of the Taliban leadership, but we must recognize there are many 
Afghans working with the Taliban for purely economic reasons. One of 
the striking observations on my two trips was the fact that a primary 
concern of Afghans is jobs, just like Americans. And if we can offer 
economic incentives and alternative sources of livelihood--especially 
with regard to the drug trade--I am hopeful that we can reintegrate 
some insurgents ready to disavow violence. This will not be quick or 
easy, but the good news is that reintegration is possible, based 
largely on the model we successfully used for the Sons of Iraq.

You can see the complexities of determining our mission and 
objectives are great, and multiple questions remain in developing an 
effective counterinsurgency strategy for Afghanistan. But these 
considerations are only half the story.

Once we have reviewed the strategy and mission, we must also consider 
how our policy in Afghanistan impacts Pakistan. As the President 
announced on March 27, ''the ability of extremists in Pakistan to 
undermine Afghanistan is proven, while insurgency in Afghanistan feeds 
instability in Pakistan.'' The relationship is clear and U.S. interests 
are inextricably linked, which is why the President adopted the 
regional approach coined ''Af-Pak.''

In my view, there are four primary challenges in Pakistan that we 
must consider when formulating our strategy in Afghanistan.

First, Pakistan is a vital security interest because it has become a 
safe haven for al-Qaida, which has continued to train there and plan 
for future attacks on Americans. We know this based on the arrest less 
than three weeks ago of Najibullah Zazi, an Afghan planning a large-
scale attack in New York, who is believed to have trained with al-Qaida 
in Pakistan.

Second, Pakistan has nuclear weapons and the delivery vehicles to use 
them. Therefore, political instability in Pakistan is not only a 
regional threat, but a larger global security interest. If Pakistan was 
destabilized or if control over its nuclear arsenal was compromised, it 
would pose severe security repercussions. It would be a nightmare 
scenario to have Pakistan ruled by fundamentalist religious fanatics 
with ''loose nukes'' in the hands of al-Qaida or other extremists.

Third, Pakistan's ongoing tension with India has limited its ability 
to respond fully to internal threats, such as the Taliban. The 
Pakistani military continues to see India as its number one threat, and 
has therefore hesitated to shift its focus from its eastern border to 
the west. This has improved in recent months since the Pakistani 
military went into Swat, but any U.S. policy must take into account 
Pakistani concerns about India.

Fourth, elements of the Pakistani intelligence service, or ISI, have 
at times allied with the Afghan Taliban. On the one hand, they want to 
hedge against a total U.S. total withdrawal from Afghanistan, as we did 
in 1989, or a limited withdrawal as we did in 2003. On the other hand, 
many in Pakistan worry that an increase of U.S. forces in Afghanistan 
may push extremists further into Pakistan.

This view was expressed today by the Pakistani Foreign Minister in 
the Washington Post. Quoted in an editorial, Foreign Minister Qureshi 
stated, ''If the likes of Mullah Omar take over in Afghanistan, it will 
have serious repercussions for Pakistan . . .'' He went on to say that 
the Taliban's actions in Afghanistan ''. . . will have implications on 
Pakistan and it will have implications on the region.''

All of these considerations indicate the need for a sustained U.S. 
commitment to Pakistan, which is why Congress just passed the Kerry-
Lugar bill and economic assistance package. This is a $7.5 billion vote 
of confidence in the Pakistani people, meant to demonstrate that our 
commitment to Pakistan is strong and enduring. It is also meant to 
demonstrate that our interests are not just limited to the border with 
Afghanistan.

In conclusion, as one can see in the detail and number of questions 
that I have raised, this reassessment of our Af-Pak strategy is about 
much more than sending additional U.S. combat troops into Afghanistan. 
As Senator Levin has pointed out, talking about troop levels in 
Afghanistan is similar to talking about the public option in health 
care reform. Just as the public option is only one element of the 
health care debate, U.S. troop levels are just one element of a much 
broader set of issues in Afghanistan.

The White House is now engaged in the necessary process of evaluating 
realities on the ground and questioning underlying assumptions. I fully 
support this process. The questions I raise today are intended to 
contribute to this ongoing review, so that we may find the right 
solution.

The stakes are too high for us to carry on business as usual or to 
ignore the changing dynamics in Afghanistan and Pakistan. This is why 
the President should weigh all perspectives about conditions on the 
ground and the region, our counterinsurgency strategy, and the way 
forward in our mission. I fully support the President's comprehensive 
approach, and I agree it


is needed because we have to get this right. We owe it to ourselves, we 
owe it to the American people, and we owe it to the brave men and women 
who continue to serve with great courage, honor and sacrifice in 
Afghanistan.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.