---
---

# IRAQ
## `b55ada4686fa1a15639099ff848fa624`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I come before the body today to let my 
colleagues know I intend to vote for cloture on the single and simple 
resolution that will be before this body tomorrow afternoon.

When one looks at the content of what is included in this resolution, 
it is very simple. In its simplest terms, it says, firsts and foremost, 
we support our troops. We support our troops. Who in this body would 
disagree with that statement?

Secondly, it makes another statement, another important but very 
simple statement, and that is that we disagree with the President's 
plan to add an additional 21,500 troops into Iraq. We disagree with the 
President's plan.

That is a simple resolution. We should be able to bring that 
resolution to this floor. We should be able to have it debated. And we 
should be able to have an up-or-down vote on that resolution.

I wish it were otherwise. I wish that, in fact, we were debating the 
various resolutions that have been suggested that we debate on this 
floor by the majority leader in the last week, where he has offered the 
minority leader on the Republican side the opportunity to come in and 
debate the Warner resolution, the McCain-Lieberman resolution, as well 
as this resolution, and a number of different configurations which have 
been offered to the minority party.

But the reality today is this Chamber, through the minority party, 
wants to stop a vote on any resolution relating to Iraq. They simply 
want to stop a vote. What we need to do as a Chamber, in my view, is to 
move forward with the deliberation of the great Senators who are a part 
of this Senate and have a robust debate on Iraq that sets forth the 
different alternatives that have been presented and come to some kind 
of conclusion that gives direction to America and to this country on 
how we ought to move forward in Iraq.

I wish we were here in part debating the Warner-Levin resolution 
because when you think about the content of the Warner-Levin 
resolution, in that resolution you also find what I believe is the best 
of what we have to offer. You have a thoughtful proposal that says, 
yes, we disagree with the President, but we also have a new direction 
in which we believe we ought to march forward in Iraq. That bipartisan 
resolution, that was largely drafted by Senator Warner and Senator 
Nelson and Senator Collins, of which I am a cosponsor, is a way 
forward. It is a way to describe a new direction for us as we move 
forward in Iraq.

I also wish we were here today and tomorrow, and even into next week, 
debating the resolution which has been brought forward by my dear 
friends, Senator Lieberman and Senator McCain. They have a different 
point of view than other Members of this body. They have a different 
point of view than Senator Warner and I do with respect to how we ought 
to move forward in Iraq. But, nonetheless, they are people of good 
faith who have a point of view that ought to be debated in this body, 
and we ought to have a vote on it.

Unfortunately, the procedural mechanisms which have been put forward 
by the minority party will keep us from actually debating that 
particular resolution and having a debate and a vote on that 
resolution.

I believe the ultimate goal we all have in this Chamber is we want to 
have peace in Iraq, and we want to have a peaceful Middle East. But I 
also believe that unless we are able to find some way of working 
together in a bipartisan manner, that key ingredient of how we find a 
peaceful avenue in Iraq and in the Middle East is going to elude us.


For sure, today is simply one of the opening chapters of the great 
debate we will have in this Chamber in the weeks and months, perhaps 
even in the years, ahead with respect to how we move forward in Iraq 
and how we move forward in the Middle East. Without a sense of 
bipartisanship, we will not be able to find that unity which is an 
essential ingredient for us to be able to move forward.

It dismays me we have not been able to find the bipartisanship to get 
us to the 60-vote threshold so we can move forward and have a robust 
debate on this issue that will be before the body tomorrow, as well as 
other issues and resolutions that would be brought forward by my 
colleagues.

As I speak at this time, the House of Representatives--just right 
down the hallway from where I stand right now--is about ready to begin 
a vote--a vote--on this very simple resolution. And again, its 
simplicity defies any logic as to why we would not want to vote on it 
in the Senate. It is very simple: We support our troops, and we 
disagree with the President's proposed escalation of troops by 21,500.

It is right that we are here this afternoon and into Saturday 
debating the vote on that simple resolution. That resolution addresses 
the most critical and important issue before our Nation today. I deeply 
regret the Senate has been prevented from voting on a similar 
resolution, and that is why I will vote for cloture on this resolution 
tomorrow. I believe the Senate has an obligation--it has an 
obligation--to debate and to vote on the issue that is most important 
to America today.

For me, my constituents in Colorado know where I stand. I am a 
cosponsor of the bipartisan resolution which Senator Warner and Senator 
Nelson and Senator Collins and others have worked on for some time. 
That resolution states in clear terms that the Senate disagrees with 
the President's plan to send more troops to Iraq. And, at the same 
time, that resolution truly offers a new way for us to move forward 
with this seemingly intractable problem we face in that part of the 
world.

I have referred to the Warner resolution as a new way forward, a new 
plan, a plan C, if you will, because it finds a middle ground between 
the President's plan A, which is to escalate the military effort in 
Iraq, and plan B, which is pushed by some American citizens in


each one of our offices every day who say we should immediately leave 
Iraq--we should immediately leave Iraq. From my point of view, the 
bipartisan resolution we came up with offers a new direction forward.

Our bipartisan group believes what we need to do is to have a new 
strategy in Iraq, one based on demanding long-overdue compromises from 
the Iraqi Government, vigorous counterterrorism activity, continued 
support of our troops in the field, protecting the territorial 
integrity of Iraq, and a very robust and enhanced diplomatic effort in 
that region and in Iraq itself.

The new way forward reflected in the Warner resolution is based on a 
number of key principles, as follows:

First, the central goal of the American mission in Iraq should be to 
encourage the Iraqi Government to make the political compromises that 
are necessary to foster reconciliation and to improve the deteriorating 
security situation in Iraq.

Second, the American military strategy should be focused on 
maintaining the territorial integrity of Iraq, denying terrorists a 
safe haven, promoting regional stability, bringing security to Baghdad, 
and training--and training--and equipping the Iraqi forces.

These are important principles, and they continue.

Third, we say what we would like to see happen in Iraq is that the 
United States should engage the nations in that region to develop a 
regional peace and reconciliation process.

Fourth, we believe the United States should continue to engage in a 
strong counterterrorism activity, chasing down al-Qaida wherever al-
Qaida might be.

Fifth, the American mission in Iraq should be conditioned upon the 
Iraqi Government meeting certain benchmarks, including ensuring an 
equitable distribution of oil revenues in that country.

And sixth, Congress should not eliminate or reduce funds for troops 
in the field because the brave men and women fighting this war need our 
support while they are in harm's way.

I believe plan C offers us the right way forward. It is my hope that 
resolution ultimately would be adopted by a large bipartisan group of 
Senators in this body.

I would like to discuss in further detail a couple of the key 
elements, at least in terms of how I see it, on how we move forward, on 
how we improve the security situation along Iraq's borders, and the 
need for an enhanced and much more robust diplomatic effort.

I believe the territorial integrity of Iraq, security along Iraq's 
borders, and, for that matter, security in the region is linked with 
the need for a renewed and vigorous diplomatic push.

The bipartisan Iraq Study Group stated in very simple terms:




 The United States must build a new international consensus 


 for stability in Iraq and the region. In order to foster such 


 a consensus, the United States should embark on a robust 


 diplomatic effort to establish an international support 


 structure intended to stabilize Iraq and ease tensions in 


 other countries in the region.


In addition, the public portion of the National Intelligence 
Estimate--which was a consensus document produced by the 16 agencies 
comprising the national intelligence community--mentioned three things 
which could ''help to reverse the negative trends driving Iraq's 
current trajectory.'' It is important to note that each of these three 
strategies proposed by the NIE are fundamentally diplomatic and 
political, as opposed to military.

They are, first of all, a recommendation that the broader Sunni 
acceptance of the current political structure and federalism be brought 
about; secondly, that significant concessions by Shia and Kurds are 
required to create space for Sunni acceptance of federalism; and, 
third, a bottom-up approach is needed to help mend the frayed 
relationships between the tribal and religious groups.

The two most important documents produced on the Iraq war over the 
past 6 months, the Iraq Study Group report and the public portions of 
the NIE, recommend a renewed diplomatic and political effort as a 
keystone for security inside Iraq and in the region.

This is no surprise when you consider the situation along the borders 
of Iraq. To the east, we know of the damage Iran can potentially cause 
by crossing the relatively porous border in order to promote the Shia 
cause. Not only that, but Iran has steadfastly ignored the U.N.'s 
demand to halt their nuclear activities. To the south and west, Saudi 
Arabia might eventually decide to intervene on the side of the Sunnis, 
should the situation further deteriorate. To the north and west, of 
course, is Syria, which has a largely uncontrolled border with Iraq, 
across which foreign fighters and arms and terrorists cross even today 
as I speak. To the north is Turkey, which is watching the situation in 
Iraq and might decide to intervene in order to prevent an independent 
Kurdistan. Finally, Jordan, to the west, is feeling the strain of the 
massive influx of Iraqi refugees into their country, which could have a 
destabilizing effect on a country which is such an important ally of 
the United States.

Given the potential crisis on Iraq's east, west, north, and south 
borders, given the complex and conflicting interests the parties in the 
region face, and given the difficulty of imposing a military solution 
on this expanding, deteriorating puzzle, it is imperative to embark on 
a renewed and robust diplomatic and political effort in the manner 
outlined in the Warner resolution. That effort, in my view, must 
include the following:

First, it must include talks with each of the key players in the 
region. I agree with the Iraq Study Group report which stated that:




 The United States should engage directly with Iran and 


 Syria in order to try to obtain the commitment to 


 constructive policies toward Iraq and other regional issues. 


 In engaging Syria and Iran, the United States should consider 


 incentives, as well as disincentives, in seeking constructive 


 results.


This does not mean direct talks will necessarily succeed quickly or 
even succeed at all. But it does mean the United States should use 
every available carrot and stick, every diplomatic tool we have to try 
to stabilize the region.

Second, the United States and those who share a vision of a peaceful 
Middle East should organize an international conference to help the 
Iraqis promote national reconciliation and stronger relations with 
their neighbors.

Third, we should heed the advice of the Iraq Study Group and promote 
the creation of an Iraq international support group which would include 
each country that borders Iraq and other key countries in the region. 
That support group would work to strengthen Iraq's territorial and 
sovereign integrity and would provide a diplomatic forum for Iraq's 
neighbors, many of whom have competing and conflicting interests to 
negotiate.

We may very well engage Iraq's neighbors and find we cannot achieve 
common ground. But I believe that refusing to talk to our adversaries 
on principle simply because they are our adversaries has done us no 
good. Indeed, in our history, Presidents from both parties and of 
different ideological stripes, from Franklin Roosevelt to Ronald 
Reagan, have actively engaged countries and leaders with whom they 
strongly disagreed, and they did so because it was in the American 
national interest. In fact, even this administration diplomatically 
engaged a member of the so-called ''axis of evil,'' North Korea. And 
while this process was long and laborious, it appears to have borne 
fruit. I believe we are at a similar moment in Iraq, when a strong and 
tough diplomatic effort may offer our last best chance to achieve a 
measure of peace and stability for Iraq and for the region.

For that reason, I believe we should follow the advice of the Iraq 
Study Group, the authors of the National Intelligence Estimate, and the 
advice of Senators from both sides of the aisle in pursuing a new 
direction in Iraq. There are no guarantees of success, but we must make 
every effort to succeed before it is too late.

I want to make a statement relative to why I think it is such an 
important time for us to be involved in this debate. It was not that 
long ago when I went with two of the most distinguished Senators in 
this body to Iraq and Afghanistan and spent time in both countries with 
both Senator Warner and Senator Levin. For all of us who are Members of 
this body, there are no two Senators whom we hold in higher esteem. 
They truly are Senators whom I would call ''a Senator's Senator'' 
because they have the respect of


their colleagues. They have the wisdom they have accumulated through 
their service to our country over decades, and they are always 
attempting to do what is best for the American interest. I remember in 
Baghdad having conversations with both Senator Warner and Senator Levin 
and how they described how things had changed from the initial invasion 
to the time we were there in the heavily fortified Green Zone in 
Baghdad and as we traveled around the country.


Since that time, Senator Warner and others have been back there. As 
we have heard in this Chamber, the distinguished Senator from Virginia 
talked about how 3 or 4 months ago, he described the situation in Iraq 
as drifting sideways. Today that situation is not only drifting 
sideways but it continues to deteriorate. So no matter how much our 
troops have done, the sacrifice they have made, the sacrifices their 
families have made, things have not only drifted sideways, they 
continue to deteriorate. The President's proposal, which is at the 
heart of this debate, has to do with whether we should send 21,500 more 
troops into harm's way. We should all ask the question whether that is 
something we shouldn't support, and we should have an opportunity to 
vote on that concept in this Chamber. We should have an opportunity to 
vote on that concept in this Chamber before the President moves forward 
with the escalation effort.

In my view, and part of the reason I joined Senator Warner and 
Senator Nelson and others in their resolution, I don't believe it will 
work. I believe when we look at Operation Going Forward Together in 
June and Operation Going Forward Together 2 in August, they demonstrate 
that a surge of this kind will, in fact, not work. Indeed, the Iraq 
Study Group found that between the months of June and the time they 
issued their report, violence had escalated in Baghdad by 43 percent. 
So we have tried a surge twice, and it has failed. Now the President is 
saying we ought to go ahead and do yet another surge. I believe a 
simple resolution we can vote on that makes a simple statement that we 
support our troops and we oppose the escalation of the military effort 
in Iraq in the way the President has proposed is the right thing for us 
to vote on. It is the most important question of our time. It is 
appropriate for us to be spending this Friday and Saturday, and, if it 
so takes, all of next week, instead of going back to our respective 
States and working during the Presidents holiday to debate this issue, 
which is such a defining issue of our time. This is a defining issue 
for the 21st century, not only for Iraq but for the Middle East, for 
the war on terror which we wage around the globe; this is the defining 
issue, and it is appropriate for us to be having this discussion on the 
floor today. Hopefully, we will have an opportunity to move forward 
into the debate on this resolution.

I yield the floor.