---
---

# None
## `b55c110073471197a8d2ad76ae088f73`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I regret that the intransigence and 
stonewalling by the Bush administration of Congress' oversight 
responsibilities have made this legislation necessary.

H. Res. 734 rightfully expresses the sense of the House that the 
Department of State has abused its classification authority by 
withholding from Congress and the American people information about the 
extent of corruption in the Iraqi Government. This resolution 
criticizes the State Department for retroactively classifying public 
documents that have previously been widely distributed as unclassified.

It also calls upon the State Department to rescind its directive that 
orders officials not to answer questions in an open committee hearing 
that might characterize the situation of corruption in the Iraqi 
Government.

What is the background on this, Madam Speaker? On October 4, the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform held a hearing on 
corruption in Iraq. Mr. Stuart Bowen, the Special Inspector General for 
Iraq, and Mr. David Walker, the Comptroller General of the United 
States with the Government Accountability Office, testified that 
entrenched corruption in the Iraqi Government is fueling the 
insurgency, undermining the chances of political reconciliation and 
endangering our troops. Judge Radhi Hamza al-Radhi, the former head of 
Iraq's own Commission on Public Integrity, stated that his work 
documented $18 billion stolen by corrupt officials. He also testified 
that Prime Minister Maliki personally intervened to block further 
investigations and prosecutions of his relatives and political allies 
from going forward.

Concern about endemic corruption in the Iraqi Government should be of 
great concern to every single Member of this House. It raises a 
fundamental question: Is the Iraq Government, under the leadership of 
Prime Minister Maliki, too corrupt to succeed?

It should definitely concern the White House and the State 
Department. So how did the Bush administration respond?

The State Department took the extraordinary step of retroactively 
classifying corruption reports by its own officials, and even portions 
of a GAO report already released by Mr. Walker.

State Department witnesses appearing before the committee refused to 
answer even the most basic questions about corruption in Iraq in open 
session.

So imagine my surprise when I opened this morning's Washington Post 
to find that the State Department told the press yesterday that 
official corruption in Iraq is ''real, endemic and pernicious,'' and 
remains a major challenge to building a functioning, stable democracy.

Now that wasn't in a classified setting; it was on a conference call 
with reporters. So it is okay to make such statements to the press but 
not to a congressional committee?

Madam Speaker, we are not talking about state secrets on how to carry 
out attacks against al Qaeda in Iraq. We are talking about corruption. 
Government corruption. There is no reason for stonewalling Congress, 
especially when the topic is discussed freely with reporters in a 
conference call.

Quite simply, Madam Speaker, the Bush administration has abused the 
classification system and demonstrated its contempt of congressional 
oversight and accountability. More than 3,800 of our troops have been 
killed in Iraq and more than 28,000 wounded. Let me repeat that. More 
than 3,800 of our troops have been killed in Iraq and more than 28,000 
wounded.

What kind of an Iraqi Government are they fighting for? I think their 
families and their military comrades deserve to know. President Bush is 
asking Congress to give him another $150 billion for the war. I think 
Congress and the American people deserve to know the extent of 
corruption within the Iraqi Government and how that might affect our 
chances of success in Iraq.



Madam Speaker, the facts about corruption may be embarrassing for the 
Iraqi Government, but they do not meet the test for secret 
classification.



Every newspaper in America has written stories on corruption in Iraq. 
Classifying previously released public documents, silencing public 
officials so that Congress and the American people are unable to get a 
complete picture, the good and the bad, about corruption in Iraq serve 
no legitimate purpose.

Any Member, Madam Speaker, who stands up on the House floor and says 
they're against corruption in Iraq has to vote for this measure.

The fact is that our occupation of Iraq is, occupation of Iraq is now 
in its fifth year. For four of those years, when Republicans were in 
control of Congress, they did nothing and said nothing about 
corruption. They were silent, while hundreds of billions of dollars 
were funneled to a government who I wouldn't trust to tell me the 
correct time.

Madam Speaker, talk is cheap, and if you're against corruption, then 
you should vote for this resolution. The problem is that for too long 
in this Congress there have been some who have been apologists for bad 
behavior. They have looked the other way while they have known that 
corruption in the Iraqi Government has been an increasing problem, not 
a decreasing problem.

So I would say to my friends on the other side of the aisle that if, 
in fact, you want to change the behavior of the Iraqi Government, if 
you want to stop the silence and the inaction that characterized your 
control of this Congress when it came to the issue of corruption in 
Iraq, then you need to vote for this resolution. The administration's 
actions need to be denounced and rescinded.

I would urge my colleagues to stand up finally and belatedly and do 
the right thing and support H. Res. 734.