---
---

# None
## `b55eac6bcf8ee918f7c2941c99a51e74`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 17 April 2007`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, we have seen a considerable number of 
the members of the Intelligence Committee come up to this floor this 
afternoon, and that is because we have before us S. 372, legislation 
authorizing funding for our intelligence and national security 
services. But rather than work with Congress to ensure agencies such as 
the CIA, FBI, NSA, and many others receive the funding they need to 
meet their missions and keep Americans safe, the Bush administration 
and some in the Republican minority are stonewalling this legislation.

As the newest member of the Select Committee on Intelligence, I am 
deeply troubled to see this legislation stalled at the expense of the 
security of our Nation. My father was a Foreign Service officer, and 
through his eyes I have seen the power of American diplomatic and 
intelligence efforts to do both great good in the world and great harm.

In their misuse and in the politicization of America's intelligence 
apparatus, President Bush and his administration have done great harm 
to America's standing in the world and our security at home. Now we 
face the


bleak prospect that for the third year in a row the Senate may not pass 
an intelligence authorization bill. This should give every concerned 
American pause.

This measure will fund our intelligence community agencies, fight 
terrorism, strengthen our capabilities to collect, analyze, and act on 
intelligence, and, most importantly, expand transparency and oversight 
of our intelligence community. It is a reflection of diligent, 
thorough, and tenacious work by our committee chairman, Jay 
Rockefeller, the distinguished Senator from West Virginia whom I see 
with me on the floor this afternoon, along with his Republican 
counterpart, Vice Chairman Bond. I was hopeful that at least we could 
end the partisan logjam that has crippled the Senate Intelligence 
Committee for the last several years. I have been pleased with the 
thoughtful and serious tone of the committee's work on both sides of 
the aisle. Yet now something has suddenly changed, and the Republican 
minority has maneuvered to block this legislation from becoming law. 
Now it appears the White House has intervened, has called in chits, and 
twisted arms to stop a bill on which Chairman Rockefeller and Vice 
Chairman Bond have worked so long and hard.


We understand this administration does not want congressional 
oversight. They don't want oversight on their inept response to 
Hurricane Katrina. They don't want oversight on the unprecedented purge 
of U.S. attorneys. They don't want oversight on the debacle going on in 
Iraq. They don't want oversight on intelligence either. But no 
administration in recent memory has more badly needed congressional 
oversight, and in no area has that need been more plainly demonstrated 
than in the intelligence function of our Government.

This is the administration that failed to ensure adequate oversight 
of national security letters under the PATRIOT Act. This is the 
administration that conducted its own secret wiretap program to monitor 
conversations, including the conversations of U.S. citizens. This is 
the administration that established its own secret prison network 
offshore to hold terrorism suspects off the record of this country's 
legitimate judicial institutions. This is the administration that 
cherry-picked its intelligence to justify the claim of Iraqi weapons of 
mass destruction. That abuse of intelligence alone cost our country 
thousands of lives, billions of dollars, and damage to our relations 
with allies around the world that will linger for many years.

One can see why this administration would resist congressional 
oversight, but Congress is obligated to oversee our country's national 
security and intelligence-gathering services. That is our duty under 
the Constitution. This duty is particularly important with the covert 
intelligence agencies because their work is not subject to public 
inquiry. These are not organizations that work in the bright light of 
day but in the deep dark of the secrecy they require to be effective. 
So meaningful and appropriate congressional oversight is our only 
safeguard.

This administration welcomes oversight less than almost any I can 
think of, but no administration in recent memory has needed it more. 
Perhaps the Nixon administration, but like the Nixon administration, 
this administration's resistance to congressional oversight is a 
measure of how badly that oversight is needed. Unfortunately, for too 
many years this Congress has conducted oversight by the principle, 
''out of sight, out of mind'' or maybe ''see no evil, hear no evil, 
speak no evil.'' You don't have to look far to see how badly this 
strategy has failed.

But there is a new team in town and a new leadership of this Congress 
that takes these responsibilities seriously. It is an abdication of our 
responsibility under the Constitution, and it is irresponsible with 
respect to the security of our Nation to let this legislation languish.

I urge my colleagues in the minority to reconsider their actions, to 
return to this floor in good faith, to continue the good work that 
Chairman Rockefeller and Vice Chairman Bond have so nobly accomplished, 
and to give our intelligence agencies the funding they need to keep us 
safe.

I yield the floor.