# IMMIGRATION
## `b56c4891a06a53d954919933217f1f62`
`Mr. CORNYN — 24 June 2010`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, there are a number of think tanks--and I 
will allude to just one--that have come up with a strategy to do what 
needs to be done to deal with visa overstays. I refer to a 
Backgrounder, published by the Heritage Foundation, dated January 25, 
2010, entitled ''Biometric Exit Program Shows Need for New Strategy to 
Reduce Visa Overstays.''

I think we need to put our best minds together and devote our efforts 
to dealing with this problem. Just like our broken border, unless 
Congress and the Administration come up with a credible plan to deal 
with this problem of visa overstays, I don't think the American people 
will have the confidence they demand and are entitled to when it comes 
to enacting a credible immigration enforcement program.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1



























U.S. Senate,



















Washington, DC, June 22, 2010.


 Secretary Janet Napolitano,


 U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Nebraska Avenue 




 Complex, Washington, DC.



 Dear Secretary Napolitano: Last week, the media reported 


 that 17 Afghan military officers had gone Absent Without 


 Leave (AWOL) from a Defense language training institute at 


 Lackland Air Force Base in Texas. Needless to say, I was 


 deeply disturbed by this report and by the fact that I had 


 not received official notification from either the 


 Departments of Defense or Homeland Security.



 On Friday, I sent a letter to Secretary of the Air Force 


 Michael Donley requesting an immediate explanation and report 


 on how such a serious violation of security occurred, as well 


 as an assessment of the potential threat posed by these 17 


 officers. In statements to the media, the Air Force stated 


 that they work in close coordination with DHS and ''[w]hen 


 the Defense Department learns an international student has 


 gone missing, DHS Immigration and Customs Enforcement is 


 immediately notified and appropriate action is taken.''



 I have been informed by ICE the majority of these missing 


 Afghan officers have not been located. According to the 


 recent media reports, these Afghan officers disappeared over 


 a 2-year period. Two years is a significant period of time 


 and I find it alarming that we are still unable to locate 


 these officers in the United States.



 I recognize that tracking visa overstays in the United 


 States is a challenge. However, I continue to see a 


 disturbing pattern that began with Ramzi Yousef and the 1993 


 World Trade Center bombings, came to fruition with the 9/11 


 hijackers, and has continued recently with Hosam Maher Husein 


 Smadi's planned attempts to bomb of a skyscraper in Dallas, 


 Texas--terrorists using legal visas to gain entry into the 


 United States with the clear intent to overstay and do harm. 


 The 9/11 Commission pointed out this area as a vulnerability 


 and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) has echoed 


 concerns about visa overstays and our ability to track and 


 remove them from the United States.



 According to one study, the number of current overstays in 


 the United States ranges anywhere from 4.5 million to 6 


 million, approximately 40 to 50% of the total illegal 


 immigration population. Overstays come from every continent, 


 and from many nations known to harbor terrorists, including 


 Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria, and Sudan. Given 


 that this number is growing each year by approximately 


 300,000 additional aliens, it is imperative that your 


 Department make identifying and removing visa overstays a 


 national priority.



 In a public statement, ICE indicated that they notified the 


 U.S. law enforcement community about the missing officers and 


 had ''no information that any of these individuals pose a 


 national security threat.'' As you can imagine, I am not 


 assured by this statement, especially given the fact that 


 these officers remain at large in the United States with 


 their whereabouts unknown to the U.S. government. I view this 


 situation as a clear security failure that needs to be 


 remedied immediately.



 I would appreciate a response as soon as possible on how 


 you intend to locate these officers immediately and remove 


 them from the United States. I would also ask that you 


 provide me with the Department's strategic plan to deal with 


 visa overstays.





 Sincerely,



























John Cornyn,


























 U.S. Senator.
