# None
## `b57d7c3c990000e3fbc4efdb627e8213`
`Ms. KAPTUR — 18 December 2007`

---


Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, this should be the season of selfless 
giving, a season where Americans give without any expectation of 
reward. This should


be a season of joy and happiness when millions enjoy the company of 
their families and loved ones. But as some of our Nation's elites 
celebrate this time of giving, they do so with the knowledge that every 
dollar they give in politics is actually an investment in influence 
peddling.

Instead of corrupting this season of giving, I hope our public 
officials will give something back to the American people, something 
more powerful than money: hope in our government that should be 
responding to people's needs, not the needs of the powerful few.

The latest example of this sickness afflicting American politics is 
reflected in our political system being bought out from under us 
through the system of Presidential libraries whose principals seek to 
find investors from other countries to help to promote their legacy in 
perpetuity. Don't believe the logic? Just then follow the money. With 
President Bush desperately trying to salvage his legacy, action is 
heating up on funding his Presidential library. While donors to George 
W. Bush's Presidential library represent a Who's Who in Republican 
politics, some of these donors have significant business with the White 
House. According to a recent Harpers magazine article, a wealthy Texas 
oil man, Ray Hunt, reportedly gave $35 million, $35 million to the Bush 
Presidential Library.

This same businessman was a big campaign contributor to the Bush-
Cheney campaign and, coincidentally, has a stake in a nearly billion-
dollar proposal to pipe out Peruvian natural gas. All of our friends 
who participated in the recent debate on Peru free trade ought to think 
about this one. In addition, Mr. Hunt is closely involved with a 
''legally questionable'' exploration deal with the Iraqi Kurds. 
Interesting set of friends in this White House.

Estimates now indicate the George W. Bush Presidential Library will 
cost up to half a billion dollars. A half a billion dollars. Why should 
a sitting United States President be involved with raising nearly 
unlimited amounts of money from those seeking influence? The American 
people surely are not blind. They understand that money buys influence, 
and a system allowing millions of dollars in unregulated cash corrupts 
all tents of democracy. We must patch this gaping loophole and prevent 
the leader of the free world from raising unlimited and unregulated 
funds for a pet project. This creates as direct a link as one can 
imagine between money and influence.

With House passage of H.R. 1254, the House of Representatives has 
clearly demonstrated its intent to provide more accountability for 
donations made to Presidential libraries. While this legislation is an 
important step in mandating the disclosure of all donations of more 
than $200, it does not require the disclosure of all donations from 
foreign governments, foreign individuals and foreign corporations. The 
Senate, the other body, should act on Congressman Wexler's legislation 
and move forward in giving this legislation teeth.

I would like to place in the Record an important article that I 
referenced in Harper's Magazine, the title of which is, ''On the Hunt: 
Bush backer seeks $1 billion for Peru project,'' and also an excellent 
article that was in The Washington Post this past weekend, the headline 
of which reads, ''Clinton Library Got Funds From Abroad. Saudis said to 
have given $10 million.'' I ask to include these articles in the 
Record.

This article then goes on to talk about President Bill Clinton's 
Presidential library, its cost over $165 million, in which foreign 
sources helped contribute to that, with the most generous overseas 
donation coming from Saudi Arabia. Now, the last time I looked, Saudi 
Arabia is the country that sent the vast majority of 9/11 hijackers 
here. So why should any United States President take money from those 
kinds of interests?

It seems to me that these Presidential libraries have gone way 
overboard. Why can't the Archives just take the records. Why do we need 
all these palaces created around the country for some of these 
Presidents? What kind of legacy are they leaving us anyway; a Nation 
that has been hemorrhaging jobs from coast to coast, a Nation that is 
terribly in debt, in hock, with over half of our U.S. Government bonds 
now being sold to foreign interests.

President Lincoln never did anything like that. His service was so 
great, the American people recognized it for what it was. The same was 
true with Franklin Roosevelt. Why do we have to have these modern-day 
palaces to egos of these current-day Presidents? It seems to me that 
Congress ought to curb this really disgusting behavior, because you 
never really know when you're meeting with a President of the United 
States and a foreign leader if they are going to be begging money for a 
library they wish to create for themselves.

Madam Speaker, we need reform in this area as well.









[From Harper's Magazine, Dec. 18, 2007]




 On the Hunt: Bush Backer Seeks $1 Billion for Peru Project














(By Ken Silverstein)




 Beginning tomorrow and over the next few weeks, the World 


 Bank and other lenders will be voting, apparently in favor, 


 on a package worth more than $1 billion to support a 


 controversial pipeline project in Peru. The primary company 


 that would benefit from that money is Hunt Oil, which is 


 headed by Ray Hunt, a Texas oilman who raised huge sums for 


 the Bush/Cheney campaigns and who reportedly has given $35 


 million for the upcoming Bush Presidential Library. Hunt Oil 


 has recently generated controversy of its own, by signing 


 what the New York Times called a ''legally questionable'' 


 exploration deal with Iraqi Kurds.



 The Hunt-led project would ''build a pipeline, a gas 


 liquefaction plant, marine terminal and other facilities to 


 export 4.4 million tons of liquid natural gas annually,'' 


 according to a 2006 story in the Washington Post. The 


 pipeline would ship liquid natural gas that originates in the 


 Camisea Field of Peru's Amazonian rain forest and send it to 


 Mexico and from there, possibly, to U.S. markets.



 The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), in which the 


 U.S. holds a thirty percent stake, will vote tomorrow on up 


 to $900 million in loans for the Hunt Oil project. The U.S. 


 Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im) decides Thursday whether to 


 allocate several hundred million dollars worth of support, 


 and the World Bank will vote on a similar amount in January. 


 The IDB already backed an earlier phase of the Camisea 


 project, which has been plagued by problems. Among the 


 troubles, the Post said, were the spilling of ''thousands of 


 barrels into pristine rivers and killing the fish upon which 


 indigenous communities depend for their livelihood.''



 A number of Peruvian and American groups--including 


 Environmental Defense, Oxfam America, and World Wildlife 


 Fund--are asking for further evaluation of the project before 


 multilateral loans are approved. They point to three broad 


 areas of concern. First are social and environmental issues, 


 as the project runs through a spectacular stretch of the 


 Amazon that is home to 12,000 indigenous people. ''The 


 lenders have sold themselves cheap and are not setting high 


 enough standards for their participation,'' said Aaron 


 Goldzimer of Environmental Defense.



 Similar concerns were expressed in a December 12 letter to 


 Ex-Im from Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont--chairman of the 


 subcommittee which monitors Ex-Im and approves the U.S. 


 contribution to the IDB and World Bank--and his House 


 counterpart, Congresswoman Nita Lowey of New York. They 


 wrote:



 It is . . . our understanding that there are unfulfilled 


 commitments and serious failures, risks and concerns still 


 pending from the first phase of the project. These include a 


 lack of fully independent monitoring; ongoing corruption 


 investigations . . . new planned infrastructure in the Nahua 


 Kugapakori Reserve which may violate previous commitments; a 


 government audit released last month that identified 


 significant problems with pipeline construction . . . and 


 significant impacts on local culture, human health, fisheries 


 and biodiversity that have not been adequately assessed much 


 less addressed.



 Second, the Peruvian government of President Alan Garcia 


 has embarked on an aggressive campaign to dismantle the 


 country's already weak social and environmental institutions. 


 The government recently fired nearly all the directors of a 


 federal environmental authority, and replaced them with 


 political hacks. (Sound familiar?) Garcia recently axed the 


 country's superintendent of protected areas when he voiced 


 objections to a proposal that would opened up a large swath 


 of the Bahuaja Sonene National Park for energy exploration.



 Garcia has been attacking critics of domestic energy 


 projects as commies and pro-poverty advocates. Meanwhile, the 


 entire Peruvian Amazon has been divided into concessions for 


 oil and gas development. Two years ago, only 15 percent of 


 the Amazon had been parceled out for energy development. 


 Garcia will undoubtedly take multilateral bank support for 


 the Hunt project as a stamp of approval for his approach and 


 use it to further steamroll his domestic opponents.



 Lastly, the economic benefits of the project for Hunt Oil 


 are quite clear but far more dubious in the case of Peru. In 


 their letter to Ex-Imp, Leahy and Lowey said they were 


 concerned that Peru did not have sufficient gas reserves to 


 meet both long-term export requirements and domestic demand.




 What that means is that Peru might well pay more for energy 


 imports down the road than it gets now for its exports. Glenn 


 Jenkins, founder of the Program on Investment Appraisal and 


 Management at the Harvard Institute for International 


 Development, prepared an economic analysis of the project for 


 Environmental Defense. He concluded that massive new reserves 


 are discovered, Peru would be worse off from an economic 


 perspective if the project proceeds.



 Back in 2003, the Ex-Im, surprisingly, rejected support for 


 the first phase of the project on environmental grounds, and 


 the Bush Administration abstained during the IDB vote. Ray 


 Hunt and his company have been aggressively lobbying in 


 Washington to make sure the administration supports the 


 proposed multilateral funding this time around. Early 


 indications are that the company has succeeded and that the 


 IDB, Ex-Im and World Bank will end up approving support.