---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `b583a89c2ac03291c58ba3a13d02f585`
`Mr. DURBIN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Who wants America to come home at this point? The 
American people do. The Iraqi people want us to leave. In fact, the 
Iraqi leadership has said it is time for us to start withdrawing our 
troops. The resistance to bringing our troops home comes from the other 
side of the aisle and from the White House. They believe we need more 
troops.

How often will America respond when the Iraqis pick up the phone and 
dial 9-1-1 to send another 20,000 of our best and bravest to go into 
battle? It is time for the Iraqis to stand and defend their own 
country. It is time for the American forces to start to come home. It 
is time for us to acknowledge that they have done their job and done it 
well. We have lost almost 3,200 American lives; 24,000 have been 
injured. We know among those injured many have not been greeted as they 
should have been. They have been sent to flophouse rooms at Walter 
Reed's Building 18. They have been pushed through the bureaucracy of 
the Veterans' Administration. For those who say they support our 
troops, they will have a chance to prove it soon, as we start trying to 
put the resources we need into the military and VA, to help our troops 
as they return.

This resolution is an opportunity for this Congress to speak to the 
reality of what is going on in Iraq today, and the reality suggests 
that it is time for American forces to start to come home; not more 
forces in harm's way but more forces coming home to be greeted by us, 
as Americans, for the fine job they have done. We cannot blame them if 
the mission has been lost over the last 4 years. They had nothing to do 
with that. But we can make it clear that our future mission is going to 
be one we can define precisely: to stop terrorism, to train the Iraqis 
so they can defend themselves, and to protect our own troops. Those are 
clear missions.

For those who resist this resolution, the obvious question is this: 
What do you think our mission is today? Is it simply to send more and 
more troops into harm's way, that they would risk their lives? I think 
not.

For those who argue that we are micromanaging the war, I guess my 
question for them is, isn't it time that somebody managed this war? 
Isn't it time, when it came to troops and mission and equipment, that 
we clearly had a management plan that our troops deserve?

For those who argue that we are cutting off funding, they have not 
read the resolution. We are not cutting a penny from the troops and the 
money that they need to come home safely. But we are saying that our 
mission has to be clear and our troops have to come home.

I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support what the 
American people want, the redeployment of our fine troops back to 
America.