---
---

# IRAQ FUNDING
## `b585b1533ab5081aa44b338a1ed74ea1`
`Mr. KYL — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, there has been a great deal of debate in 
recent weeks about whether to fund the needs of our soldiers overseas. 
The time to act has come.

We are nearing the end of the first quarter of the fiscal year, and 
despite steady progress in Iraq, Congress still has not passed a 
funding bill for our soldiers. Members of this body have been aware of 
the consequences of delaying funding for a long time.

In a November 8 letter, Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England 
explained that failure to fund military operations will ''result in 
having to shut down significant portions of the Defense Department by 
early next year.'' The specific consequences, in Secretary England's 
words, include ''closure of military facilities, furloughing of 
civilian workers and deferral of contract activity.'' In case there is 
any confusion about what this means to the military, Secretary England 
is quite clear: ''this situation will result in a profoundly negative 
impact on the defense civilian workforce, depot maintenance, base 
operations, and training activities.''

He also acknowledged that this delay in funding doesn't only harm our 
military but also sets back the training and equipping of Iraqi and 
Afghan security forces, whose expeditious development is critical to 
lasting peace in those nations.

This delay in funding shows a lack of support for our troops in 
harm's way, disregard for the measurable progress they have achieved in 
recent months, and indifference to the future of Iraq and Afghanistan. 
That is not the kind of leadership the American people expect of 
Congress.

It is time to heed the clear warnings from the Department of Defense, 
come together in support of the progress our soldiers are making, and 
provide them with the necessary resources so that they can continue 
their important work on behalf of the American people.

A December 8 article in the Washington Post by LT Pete Hegseth and 
GEN John Batista, a prominent critic of the Administration's policy in 
Iraq, encouraged Americans ''to stand together, in and out of 
uniform,'' and commit to defeating our enemies. That means supporting 
the progress our soldiers are achieving and providing them the funds 
necessary to complete their mission and, thus, make Americans safer.

I ask unanimous consent to have the attached article printed in the 
Record.