# FIND WAYS TO COME TOGETHER ON IRAQ
## `b58ba168e55c34df505d6219ebb8ee54`
`Mr. SHAYS â€” 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I thank all four of my colleagues, Mr. 
Gilchrest, Mr. Dent, Mr. Bishop, and Mr. Israel. I wanted to be here 
simply for the novelty of Republicans and Democrats trying to talk 
about where we could find common ground.

My basic view is that we made a mistake going in given that we didn't 
find weapons of mass destruction. But I tend to think it would be a 
mistake to leave precipitously. I think we went in on a bipartisan 
basis, and I think we could leave on a bipartisan basis. I just don't 
think we are as far apart in some ways as some may think.

I do think there should be a Status of Forces Agreement instead of a 
U.N. resolution as an occupying nation. If the Iraqis don't want us 
there, we will leave. I feel we attacked them; they didn't attack us. 
And we have an obligation before we leave to replace their army, their 
police, and their border patrol. That is really one of your shared 
principles. But if they want us to leave before, then they are a 
sovereign nation. They could ask us to leave and we would.

I will also close with this because I think it would be nice to have 
more of a dialogue rather than just speeches from us, but I think the 
Iraq Study Group is something that Democrats agreed to in principle and 
so did Republicans. And I agree that they left a little bit of 
discretion as to what they meant and we could each view it in the way 
that we want to, and so that would have to be worked out. But the basic 
principles of the Iraq Study Group, to my mind, should be voted on and 
supported by both sides of the aisle, specifically getting the 
Americans and the coalition forces out of doing police work.

Secondly, getting the Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds to work out their 
differences. They said with consequence if they didn't. I think there 
should be a timeline. I just think it should be not by 2/08. And, 
thirdly, to get the nations around Iraq to dialogue and we should be 
dialoguing with them, including Iran and Syria.