---
---

# MENTAL HEALTH PARITY NOW
## `b596f7cd58af7476e76c0bee7fe35876`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. I thank the gentleman from Minnesota. I ask him and say 
to everybody a rhetorical question. If you could imagine in this 
country insurance companies saying to you, ''Cancer is going to cost 
you a higher deductible or copay. We're going to charge you more for 
that because we choose to,'' I can only imagine the outcry in this 
country. They wouldn't allow it for a second if they charged more for 
treatment for one disease than another in any other part of the body, 
but they allow it for mental illness because there's a stigma in 
society. Let's just face it. People are afraid of mental illness 
because they think it reflects something about them, their moral 
character, their ability to be strong and so forth. The fact of the 
matter is mental health is about being strong.


One of the great opportunities that I had as an early Member of 
Congress was to go down to Fort Bragg, North Carolina, and rededicate 
the Special Warfare School named in honor of my late uncle, President 
John Kennedy. President Kennedy was the first to award the wearing of 
the green beret in Special Forces. And I was surprised to learn that 
the Special Forces have for them psychiatrists on staff 24 hours, 7 
days a week for each of the units of our Special Forces.

And you'd think to yourself, why in the world would the strongest, 
most elite, most resilient of all of our military men and women, why 
would they ever need to see a psychiatrist? And the commanders told me 
it's not because of any weakness that we want them to have a mental 
health professional; it's, rather, we want them to be the best that 
they can be. And we know, we've sunk hundreds of thousands of dollars 
into the training of these elite Special Forces. We've trained them to 
jump out of the sky. We've trained them to dive under the water and 
carry all kinds of things. We've trained them to do the most 
extraordinary tasks, and we've trained them to shoot at incredible 
ranges and to do incredible tasks. And we know that for them to be able 
to do those tasks at the maximum proficiency, they have to have a clear 
mind. They have to be unburdened by any stress in their life for them 
to have the maximum use of all their faculties and doing the job that 
this government asks them to do when they're tasked to go and defend 
the United States of America.

And I was astounded. I said to myself, Well, if we want the best for 
all of our Special Forces and are tasking mental health professionals 
so that we get the best from our Special Forces, why aren't we tasking 
this for the rest of our military? And, in fact, as we're finding out 
now, the military is slowly learning that, in fact, we should be doing 
that for the rest of our military. It actually makes sense, in order to 
save lives amongst our own military members, to train them in advance 
to them going to war, in advance of them going to defend our country, 
to prepare themselves not only physically, but to prepare them mentally 
for the challenges that lay ahead. Why? Why? Because, when they get 
back from that combat theater, we've all read about posttraumatic 
stress disorder. I prefer to call that combat stress illness because I 
don't see it as a disorder. Frankly, I see it as a normal reaction to 
abnormal situations. That's what war is. Soldiers are responding to 
stress that is absolutely abnormal. People killing people in the 
streets, bombs going off is abnormal. Soldiers responding to that is 
normal. So the stress that is known as posttraumatic stress is 
absolutely a normal response to war. It should be called combat stress 
illness. That means they can get over it with the proper treatment, 
and, frankly, we ought to be doing more to treat our soldiers and their 
families. But, frankly, we, as a country, have seen such a stigma 
towards mental health that we're losing our soldiers now to suicide at 
a record rate.



We have got 120 soldiers killing themselves every week back here in 
the United States after they've survived going over to Iraq. I only 
wish we added all those soldiers' names to the list of casualties in 
this the Iraq war, because if we added them to the names of those 
killed in action, this President's body count for the war in Iraq would 
be a lot higher than it is right now.

And the fact of the matter is we are missing the opportunity right 
now to intervene and take care of many of those soldiers because of our 
stubborn attitude towards mental health; and if we don't get it right 
with our soldiers and our veterans, we're not going to get it right for 
the rest of the American public.

Our American public is sympathetic to our soldiers because they've 
stood the line and defended our country, and if we can't understand why 
they don't need it, then how are we going to understand why a child in 
the inner city who is going to school in southwest Washington, who's 
seeing guns and bullets fly through their neighborhood and seeing 
police cars at night all around their neighborhood, because of gunshots 
echoing in the night, how are we


going to understand where that child isn't going to have post-traumatic 
stress? If a soldier's going to suffer from post-traumatic stress 
because of guns, bullets and bombs, how are we not going to expect a 
child growing up in our inner cities around our country not to have 
stress and not have the impact of that?

We need mental health for our soldiers. We need it for our children 
in this country who are growing up in traumatic situations.