# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `b597fd0b1ff8dd58aaf30002bf5bdb51`
`Mr. LEAHY — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, this week, the Senate is engaged again in 
an intense debate about one of the most pivotal issues facing our 
Nation and its families right now--the ongoing war in Iraq. There is 
great division in the country and in the Congress on many of these 
issues, but I believe there is one area where we remain united, and 
that is in support and appreciation of our troops and their families 
and friends here at home.

The Nation shares the sorrow and grief over the loss of so many fine 
Americans in war. Our military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan have 
come at the cost of precious American lives. No one knows that pain 
more than those loved ones left behind--the spouses, the parents, the 
sons, and the daughters who are left to pick up the pieces. A gaping 
hole of unimaginable proportions opens with each and every one of these 
family losses.

Families in Vermont have gone through more than their share of the 
pain. Vermont has suffered the highest per capita casualty rate of any 
State in the Nation during these ongoing operations. We are a State of 
just over 600,000 people, and many of our State's sons and daughters 
are part of the Vermont National Guard, the Reserves, and the Active-
Duty Forces. Twenty-six servicemembers with Vermont ties have given 
their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan. Behind the names of those 
Vermonters are dozens of families and hundreds of friends facing that 
all-too-real and perhaps unknowable loss. When I go to these funerals 
and I look around in the church or the synagogue where the funeral is 
being held, I see so many people I have known from childhood days and 
realize they, too, are members of the family of those who have died.

Earlier this year, dedicated students at Vermont's Norwich University 
produced a documentary about these families coping with the loss of 
their loved ones. Titled ''Vermont Fallen,'' the film documents how 
many of these family members have reacted, how they have tried to cope. 
In the darkest and saddest of times, this project has helped a new 
Vermont family to emerge, brought together by community screenings of 
the film. They have been able since then to turn to each other for 
comfort.

The Norwich students' project has offered a glimpse into the searing 
and highly personal grief and mourning that has touched thousands of 
American families and scores of American communities across Vermont and 
across the country. They have produced a tribute that speaks directly 
to each human heart.

Tomorrow, at Arlington National Cemetery, one of our fallen, 1LT Mark 
Dooley, will be interred. Lieutenant Dooley selflessly died in the line 
of duty in Iraq in 2005. He was a member of the police department in 
Wilmington, VT, a lovely town that is nestled right in southern 
Vermont, almost on a midline with the Green Mountains. My wife Marcelle 
and I went to the police station after his death just to sign the 
condolences and to announce our condolences. Lieutenant Dooley's 
parents will also be there, as well as other members of his family, and 
in a sense, every Vermonter will be there.

Joining the Dooleys, lending their unique understanding of the 
special bond that comes from it, will be the families of the ''Vermont 
Fallen.'' I hope the Dooleys and what has now become their extended 
family will find comfort in one another. They deserve to be in the 
thoughts, the hearts, and prayers of all Vermonters and every American 
as they gather at Arlington. They are in the thoughts and prayers of 
the Members of the Senate.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the 
Record a list of the ''Vermont Fallen.''