---
---

# IRAQ
## `b5b73deca3782c1751892f1201ed8066`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, as we celebrate this holiday season 
with our families, as we gather with those we love and give thanks for 
our tremendous blessings, we remember how incalculable the losses have 
been to the families of the 3,888 soldiers who have been killed in 
Iraq. Their losses cannot be tallied, not in the number of Christmas 
nights spent without the one they loved; not in the number of days 
since their wives, husbands, parents, and children left home forever. 
We cannot calculate the strain on the 28,661 wounded soldiers and their 
families, many of whom will be spending this precious time of the year 
in a military hospital, coping with their blindness, living with only 
one leg or arm, sleeping through nightmares of the battlefield instead 
of the beautiful dreams they used to know this time of year.

As we hold them in our hearts--as well as all of the men and women in


uniform across the globe who serve to protect the country and to 
promote its interests, for which we have eternal gratitude--as we hold 
them in our hearts and express that gratitude, we also watch our money 
slip away from us in Iraq. That is a casualty we can and must count.

I have come to the floor over the last 2 months to talk about the 
cost of Iraq to us at home. The lives lost in Iraq cannot have a price 
put to them. Their sacrifice and that of their families have no price. 
The human suffering of those who have been wounded also has no price.

But there is also a price that is calculable at home, and it is what 
the war is costing not just in dollars from our Treasury and debt cast 
upon on the next generation of Americans, but what it is costing in 
lost opportunities at home. There is a brutal holiday irony that is no 
cause for festive spirit in Washington.

The irony is this: President Bush and his Republican allies in 
Congress held hostage some key investments we need to make right here 
in our country, in order to extract a promise of more money for the war 
in Iraq.

They are asking for more than $150 billion more for Iraq next year, 
but at one point they threatened to starve the entire Government of 
funding over a difference in the Federal budget that amounts to less 
than one-tenth of what the President wants to spend on the war next 
year. He was ready to shut the whole Government down over the 
difference of what amounts to less than one-tenth of what the President 
wants to spend on the war next year.