---
---

# SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
## `b5c1d1eb2da0e231bb165871c00aff47`
`Mr. BYRD — 29 October 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, today marks the 84th anniversary of the 
founding of the Republic of Turkey. It is an auspicious occasion to 
commemorate the abiding and enduring partnership between two great 
nations.

In 1923, following the collapse of the 600-year-old Ottoman Empire 
and a 3-year war of independence, a Turkish World War I hero, Mustafa 
Kemal, helped found the Republic of Turkey. Kemal, who was later given 
the name Ataturk, meaning ''father of the Turks,'' rejected the 
crumbling structures and outdated modes of empire and embraced instead 
a platform of reform and modernization, a legacy that continues in 
Turkey to this day and to this hour.

Today Turkey is the most successful example in the Muslim world of a 
secular representative democracy. Turkey's economy has grown at a 
record pace in recent years to become the world's 19th largest. 
Literacy and education rates continue to climb, as life expectancy has 
improved and poverty rates have declined. Turkey stands as an 
inspiration to reformers in the greater Middle East and throughout the 
world.

Turkey has been a consistent and loyal ally of the people of the 
United States. From World War II, when Turkey entered the fight on the 
side of the allies, to the cementing of the United States-Turkish 
alliance in the 1947 Truman doctrine to Turkey's accession to the North 
American Treaty Organization in 1952, Turkey has been a friend of the 
American people.

During the long Cold War, Turkey was a bulwark on the edge of the 
Iron Curtain, and it was a critical ally. Turkey later helped the 
United States to


patrol the no-fly zones over Iraq after the first Persian Gulf war and 
aided the U.S. Armed Forces in Afghanistan after the September 11 
attacks.

Turkey, which has the second largest army in NATO, commanded the 
International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan twice, in 2002 
and 2005, and Turkish troops continue to contribute to security efforts 
there.

It is difficult to overstate the critical importance of Turkey's 
cooperation with United States missions in the region. United States 
Defense Secretary Robert Gates recently estimated that 70 percent--let 
me say that again, 70 percent--of the air cargo deployed into Iraq to 
support United States troops there transits through airbases in Turkey.

I perhaps should say that again. It is difficult to overstate the 
critical importance of Turkey's cooperation with United States missions 
in the region. United States Defense Secretary Robert Gates recently 
estimated that 70 percent of the air cargo deployed into Iraq to 
support United States troops there transits through airbases in Turkey.

Turkey, as a predominantly Muslim country with an important bilateral 
relationship with Israel, seeks to play a constructive role in Middle 
East peace negotiations and continues to be an important ally in a 
dangerous and turbulent region. Turkey occupies a strategically 
critical territory between Europe and Asia, bordering such challenging 
neighbors as Iran, Syria, and Iraq.

Furthermore, I say, as the United States increasingly looks to 
diversify its sources of energy, it is important for us to remember 
that Turkey forms a crucial energy corridor to the West, capable of 
bringing oil and natural gas from the steppes of Eurasia to the shores 
of the Mediterranean Sea.

Turkey is, in short, central to the interests of the United States. 
Now is a good time to be reminded of that fact, as tensions build in 
the Kurdish region and tempers flare over the proper words to use to 
describe a century-old tragedy. Whatever one's views may be about that 
tragedy--politically, economically, geographically, strategically, and 
militarily--as our soldiers--our soldiers, U.S. soldiers, American 
soldiers--are in harm's way in Iraq and Afghanistan, the United States 
can ill-afford to lose such an important friend and ally as Turkey.

This is a critical moment for Turkey. The Turkish people recently 
elected a new government, led by Prime Minister Erdogan and President 
Abdullah Gul. Let me say that once more. This time I think I can say 
that better. This is a critical moment for Turkey. The Turkish people 
recently elected a new government led by Prime Minister Erdogan and 
President Abdullah Gul. These decisive elections demonstrated the 
vibrant and healthy spirit of Turkey's democracy and the commitment of 
Turkey's people to the democratic process. However, the young 
government is facing a number of serious challenges as it 
simultaneously seeks to guard against a very real threat from Kurdish 
terrorists, assuage Turkish nationalists and the military, and maintain 
the secular character of the State, all while continuing Turkey's bid 
for European Union membership. We should offer the Turkish Government 
all the support we can give in these noble endeavors.

Much like the United States, Turkey continues to struggle with the 
darker moments of its history. The terrible treatment of Armenians 
prior to and during the first World War, as well as the treatment of 
other minorities, including Greeks, Alevis, and Kurds, is a matter that 
continues to haunt the people of Turkey. In recent years, however, 
there have been encouraging signs: historians conferences, attempts to 
improve relations with Armenia, and growing acceptance of the Kurdish 
language.

This is what free people and open democracies do. They debate and 
they examine their history and the conscience of their people. Given 
time and patience, their past can be confronted in a truthful and 
candid way. Many of us would like to see more progress from Turkey in 
this area. There continue to be issues about which our two countries 
disagree. This should be no surprise. Members of the same family 
disagree at times, and our best friends are often those who criticize 
us most openly. But there is a time for criticism and a time for 
praise, and criticism can be constructive. Today is a day to celebrate 
the great Turkish nation and its people and to acknowledge the strong 
ties that bind our countries together. That is the reason I am 
cosponsoring a resolution with my colleague, Senator Gordon Smith--to 
affirm the friendship and the alliance of the American and Turkish 
peoples. May our ties continue to grow stronger with the passage of 
time.
