---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `b5da925b3ee2f201ada76d1185227cdd`
`Mr. CASTLE — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Chairman, I'm informed that the point of order will 
probably be upheld here, but I would like to make this point before I 
withdraw the amendment.

Today, all members of the Armed Forces, including those serving in 
the Guard and Reserves, receive two-and-a-half days of leave time per 
month, regardless of whether they're deployed in Iraq or back in the 
U.S. or at their home base.

My amendment would simply credit soldiers one additional day of leave 
time for every month that they are deployed in a combat zone, and this 
could be used when they return Stateside. We learned this from speaking 
to a soldier in particular by e-mail and to soldiers more specifically 
about it, and realized that with some of the mental health problems 
which are going on, the extra leave time, not time on standby but 
actual leave time, would be good as far as our soldiers are concerned, 
and so decided we wanted to push it.

We tried to do it in the Tauscher bill a couple of days ago, and 
unfortunately, the Rules Committee did not accept it. And I tried to 
put it in this Defense appropriations bill, and I realize it might have 
limitations as far as the point of order is concerned.

But I think it's an important question, and I just wanted to appeal 
to the chairman and to the ranking member to consider this perhaps in 
conference, perhaps at some other time, perhaps somebody else can 
borrow it. I just believe it's something we ought to be thinking about 
doing for our soldiers who have been called back on a fairly repetitive 
rotating basis. In my judgment, they would benefit from this extra 
leave time.

