---
---

# SERGEANT MARCUS MATHES POST OFFICE
## `b5e6513a7d99233503ca688bdfa90cb8`
`Mr. CHAFFETZ — 21 April 2009`

---


Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

I rise in support of H.R. 1516, naming the post office after Sergeant 
Marcus Mathes.

Army Sergeant Marcus C. Mathes was much more than a selfless and 
heroic soldier. He was a devoted husband


and lover of life and family. As his mother, Sue Sawyer, described him, 
he loved anything dangerous or thrilling. He was full of life. He loved 
life, and he lived it to the fullest.

Sergeant Mathes died on April 28, 2008, in Baghdad of wounds 
sustained when enemy forces attacked his forward-operating base with 
indirect fire. Also lost in the fight were Private First Class Adam L. 
Marion and Sergeant Mark A. Stone.

Sergeant Mathes was only 26 years old and hailed from Florida. He 
left for boot camp on his 23rd birthday on March 15, 2005, and was 
assigned to the 94th Brigade Support Battalion, 4th Brigade Combat 
Team, 10th Mountain Division out of Fort Polk, Louisiana. He served in 
Afghanistan from October 2006 until March 2007 and left for Iraq in 
November of 2007.

Sergeant Mathes was a selfless hero who dedicated his life to being 
the best soldier he could possibly be. He is remembered by family and 
friends as someone who loved life and adventure and welcomed a 
challenge. He loved to hike to waterfalls, SCUBA dive and ride dirt 
bikes. His father-in-law, Chuck Ehrman, said that he will be remembered 
as fun-loving and the type to make everyone feel happy around him.

As a loving husband to his wife, Julia, as a son and patriot, 
Sergeant Mathes made the ultimate sacrifice in April of 2008 serving 
the country he loved.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill honoring a courageous young 
man who personified the noblest ideals of our great Nation. His lost 
life fighting for the freedom enjoyed by all of us, by loved ones back 
home and his sacrifice, shall not be forgotten.

I reserve the balance of my time.