---
---

# None
## `b5e688b6774751ffc2b93e7caadaae01`
`Mr. CARTER — 22 April 2009`

---


Mr. CARTER. You know, I am just reading some more of our report, it 
just continues to be more and more offensive.

The category where this provision comes from, talking about right-
wing extremists being our returning veterans, some examples given, 
after Operation Desert Shield/Storm 1990-1991, some returning military 
veterans, including Timothy McVeigh, joined and associated with right-
wing extremist groups.

Yes, maybe Timothy McVeigh did, but the veterans that Mike Burgess 
just read about, they didn't. Okay? They served their Nation, and they 
have left the military service and have been good citizens of his 
congressional district, and yet they lumped them with Timothy McVeigh.

Another one says, a prominent civil rights organization report, 
without telling us who they are, ''that large numbers of potentially 
violent neo-Nazi skinheads and other white supremacists are now 
learning the art of warfare in the United States Armed Forces.''

That is so insulting, it's beyond belief, it's beyond belief. It is 
condemning every bit of our Armed Forces.

So basically they are there. We are not sure who they are. Watch them 
all. Watch they all. They have got a uniform on. If it says Iraq or 
Afghanistan or has that American flag, keep an eye on those guys. They 
might shave their head when they get home and be a skin head. What kind 
of paranoia is this? It's just beyond belief that there is this kind of 
thought processes beginning this term of an American President, someone 
he put in this position.
