---
---

# JAMES ZADROGA 9/11 HEALTH AND COMPENSATION ACT OF 2010
## `b5e7c0f65e775b0baf68be8c3f732429`
`Mr. SHIMKUS — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of the time.

Our great friends from both sides of the aisle, our great friends 
from New York, it has been an interesting battle, one that is very 
tough to be engaged in. They are right. You know, the folks who 
responded need care. They need to be supported, and that's what we 
think we have been doing.

When we started marking up this bill, there was $130 million in the 
fund. That was still there, cash on hand. The President, in his budget, 
said, We can do better than that. We need $150 million. So that started 
the process of us deciding what did we need to do and how did we need 
to do it, especially from the funding perspective.

Now the entitlement debate is an interesting one to get involved in. 
I am a military veteran. I served actively for 5/1/2/ years. I served 
another 23 in the Reserves. The first line responders are heroes. But 
our men and women in uniform in Afghanistan, our men and women in Iraq, 
and our men and women around the world, they are heroes too. They don't 
have an entitlement program. They go through the regular authorization 
process. They go through the appropriation process. And you know what? 
When we go into the political battle, which we are coming upon, people 
attack folks about whether they are authorizing enough money or whether 
they are spending enough money. This is what happens here.

We can spin it any way we want, but that's part of our debate. Do you 
use the same process to authorize funding to fight for the money and 
spend the money? And we would say, We should use the same categories we 
do with our military veterans, that we should use the same process we 
use for our active military forces. Again, the President wanted $150 
million. That's what we agreed upon. That's the amendment that we 
authorized in the marked-up bill. And some would argue and say, Gosh, 
there must be nothing being done. Nothing is being done. Well, we know 
that's not true. CDC has been before the committee twice, saying they 
have a list. They do have a registry. They are following up. In fact, 
as of September 30, the World Trade Center Program has enrolled 55,331 
responders. There are 55,331 responders in the program now. It's not 
like we're not doing anything.

There are other issues with the bill. One of the concerns is, when 
the new health care law cuts money to hospitals under part A, about 
$150 billion in payments, the CMS actuary says, Guess what? Ten percent 
of all hospitals are going to close.



That is under the new health care bill. And it is rural hospitals 
that are the targets under the new health care law.

Well, this provides more money under Medicare to New York City 
hospitals, at 140 percent of Medicare payments. We only pay 70 percent 
of Medicare payments in this country as a whole. But under this law, we 
are going to provide New York hospitals 140 percent of Medicare costs. 
So there are real issues of concern here, and it is unfortunate because 
it didn't have to be this way.

All we asked for was the number that President Obama thought was 
good. He said $150 million. We said, fine, 20 million more than what 
the money was still in the fund at the time.

And we are also saying they are all heroes. The 9/11 responders are 
heroes. Let's treat them like our veterans. Let's treat them like our 
active military. Why should we have a double standard? Can't we fight 
for their authorizations on an annual basis like we do for our active 
military and for our veterans? Of course we can.

So, with that, Mr. Speaker, it is, again, unfortunate that we are in 
this position. We could have had a strong bipartisan bill. We don't 
have that. People will cast their votes, and they will be held 
accountable.

I yield back the balance of my time.