# CONTINUING EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `b5f55b6c7700bd24d3746b152d70e9f6`
`Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts — 15 April 2010`

---


Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts. First of all, I wish to begin by thanking 
our leader on the trip, the Senator from Delaware, Mr. Carper. It was a 
joy to be on a trip with people who had different experiences, 
different military experiences, and take that experience and work it 
together in such a short period of time to form such a powerful team. 
If this is how every CODEL is going to be, I am excited to be a part of 
that experience.

This trip enabled me--now that the campaign is over--to learn and 
make sure that everything we were talking about then was accurate. If 
that is so, how do we take that and use it in a productive way to give 
the troops the tools they need to be, No. 1, safe; and No. 2, to finish 
the job. My analysis is, General McChrystal's effort to do just that--
the new combined effort working with the Afghan police and national 
army, as well as local tribal leaders and our coalition forces in the 
military--has enabled us, I think, in all sincerity, to have the best 
chance to do just that; to keep our troops safe and ultimately to 
finish the job.

What is finishing the job? Finishing the job, to me, and to General


McChrystal and others, is to provide that safety, that security net 
around the citizenry in Afghanistan, to protect them and to allow them 
to flourish and start to grow and weed out the corruption and not rely 
so much on the poppy fields and ensure that they can bring their 
produce to market or keep their government safe and secure so they can 
start to be more self-sufficient. Working with our coalition partners, 
President Karzai, and others, I think gives us the best chance of 
success.

I wish to thank the team members for their patience. It was a long 
haul, long flights--12- to 15-hour flights. We weren't partying there, 
I can assure you. We were there, up at the crack of dawn and going to 
bed late at night, working with the Ambassadors, the Presidents, the 
Foreign Ministers of every country we visited. It made me feel, first 
of all, proud to be an American and thankful that I am an American. In 
recognizing the true challenges other parts of the world face--and I 
know the leader of our team will talk briefly about the refugee camp we 
saw in Pakistan with 150,000 people and kids from 3 years old up to 18 
years old in school, with the smiles on their faces, and seeing the 
hope and the excitement that they were learning for the first time in 
their lives--it made all of us look at each other and say: Geez, can we 
come back in August and help out? Because it was so intellectually 
rewarding, and it made me, and I know other Members, so excited to be 
there and to see the hope.

What does education do in countries such as Afghanistan and Pakistan? 
It gives them the tools to make sure they know how to deal with the 
Taliban and other entities coming in to try to influence their lives. 
It gives them the knowledge to be able to say no. It is almost like the 
DARE program, the drug program we have in Massachusetts, where it is 
the resistance education program where they give you the tools to not 
succumb to peer pressure and take drugs and make bad choices. When I 
left that refugee camp, I felt there was hope there.

I will defer to our leader to continue with this conversation.