# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT
## `b5f8c27fa079129f20e68f0de96f06a4`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Fine. I yield myself 5 minutes.

Mr. President, this has been a long journey to try and bring our 
broken immigration system and our broken borders to the place where 
this Senate can take action. Today's action is going to be absolutely 
key to whether we will be able to continue and finalize this 
legislation at the end of the week. So today's vote is a critical vote, 
key vote, perhaps the most important vote we have had here on this 
issue over the period of the last 3 years.

Our Judiciary Committee has been working on this legislation. Senator 
Specter has been a key part of this whole effort. It has been a 
bipartisan effort. Our quest has been a bipartisan effort here on the 
floor of the Senate.

Those of us who are committed to this issue believe we have an 
important responsibility to try to achieve something. We believe the 
reason for us being here, whether it is from Massachusetts or 
Pennsylvania or from other States, is to deal with the public's 
business, the Nation's business. This is the Nation's business. I think 
outside of the issue of the war in Iraq, this is front and center for 
our country.

People in my State are concerned and affected by it, and they are in 
other parts of the country as well. We have 900,000 nonnative-born 
individuals in my State of Massachusetts. Of those 900,000, 200,000 are 
undocumented. We have more than 3,000--in the city of Boston--more than 
3,000 small businesses directly responsible for 34,000 jobs, more than 
half a billion dollars in pay and sales taxes in my State by those who 
are born in other countries. They represent probably less than 10 
percent of the State's population, and 17 percent of the job market. 
The workers in our State, 17 percent are nonnative born, a 
demonstration that those individuals who have come here to the United 
States want to work. They want to work. They also are men and women of 
faith. They are men and women who care about their families, by the 
fact that more than $48 billion is returned every single year to the 
countries in Central and South America.

They care about their families. They want to work. More likely than 
not, they are all men and women of deep faith and religious belief. 
That is reflected in many of our communities in my State and in travels 
around the country. You see that day in and day out.

Also they want to be a part of the American dream. We have seen that 
reflected in the total numbers of individuals who have served in the 
Armed Forces of our country. Some 70,000 have served in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and many have lost their lives. But in a number of 
instances, individuals, the undocumented, have crossed the line in 
terms of immigration, drawn here by the great economic magnet, the 
economic magnet that is on this side of the border that says: Look, we 
need you over here to make the American economy work. We want to pay 
you over here when you are unemployed over here. We will provide you 
the resources so you can look after your family. People have been 
attracted to that magnet. We have them here.

For those toward the end of this discussion and debate, as we have 
heard on the floor, we know what they are against. We do not know what 
they are for. Time and time again they tell us: We do not like this 
provision; we do not like that provision; we do not want that part of 
it. They ought to be able to explain to the American people what they 
are for. What are they going to do with the 12/1/2/ million who are 
undocumented here? Send them back? Send them back to countries around 
the world, more than $250 billion; buses that would go from Los Angeles 
to New York and back again? Try and find them? Develop a type of 
Gestapo here to seek out these people who are in the shadows? That is 
their alternative? That is their alternative?

This country and this Senate is better. We have a process that said: 
Look, okay, you are here and undocumented. You are going to have to pay 
a price. We are going to take people who are in the line who have said 
they want to play by the rules. They go and they wait, and you wait and 
you wait and you wait. You pay and pay, and you pay and you pay. You 
pay your fees, you pay your processing fees, your adjustment fees. You 
pay not only for yourself but the other members of the family. You 
demonstrate you are going to learn English, you demonstrate you worked 
here, that you are a good citizen, that you have not had any run-in 
with crime, and then maybe you get on that pathway with a green card, 
and, perhaps, in 15, 18 years you will be able to raise your hand and 
be a citizen here in the United States. This is the issue. Are we going 
to have a constructive and positive resolution of this issue, or are we 
going to be naysayers, bumper sticker sloganeers who say: We are 
against amnesty, or, we are against this bill?

America deserves better. The issue is too important. Now is the time, 
this is the place. The Senate is the forum where we have to take this 
action.

I am hopeful that America is watching this and will understand what 
is at stake here. This is an issue and this is a vote of enormous 
importance. We talk of votes here. Some are more important than others. 
A few are of enormous significance and consequence. A few of them are 
going to have a defining impact about what kind of society we are going 
to be in, how we are going to treat each other, whether we have a 
respect for our fellow human beings and our fellow individuals who are 
here in this country, and whether we believe that our greatest days are 
yet to come.

Are we going to respond to the voices of fear? And that is the issue. 
Are we going to have a positive resolution, a constructive resolution, 
that is going to continue to be shaped as it goes to the House of 
Representatives, shaped there as well by different responsible figures? 
It may have somewhat of a different view. Or are we going to say no, 
no, we have listened to those voices of fear who say: Absolutely not. 
We are going to take the status quo. Every person who votes ''no'' is 
going to know that this situation is going to get worse and worse and 
worse.

We are going to say that: Oh, yes, sure, we will do something down on 
the border. But you are never going to have the kind of workforce 
enforcement, you are never going to have the kind of absolutely 
essential identification system that any responsible immigration system 
is absolutely required to have.


This is a vital vote about the future of our country or the past. 
That is going to be the issue in question when the time comes to vote.

Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time.