---
---

# None
## `b607149dd94065419e940af79f3eb897`
`Mr. ACKERMAN — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. Madam Chair, I rise today in support of the Murphy 
Amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to repeal ''Don't 
Ask, Don't Tell.''

The time to end this absurd policy is long past due. Since it was 
implemented in 1994, ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' has resulted in more 
than 13,000 gay and lesbian servicemembers being discharged for no 
reason other than their sexual orientation. As the United States has 
fought wars in Afghanistan and in Iraq, hundreds of mission-critical 
troops, including crucial Arabic and Farsi linguists, have been 
discharged because the Department of Defense believed they were gay. 
Such blatant discrimination is both morally wrong and, from a practical 
perspective, self-defeating.

Last year, I received a letter from a gay soldier from Long Island 
who has bravely served our nation for more than twenty years in two 
branches of our military. Throughout his numerous tours of duty in 
Afghanistan and in Iraq, he has earned multiple bronze stars. Although 
he could retire, he did not want to leave the military when our nation 
needed him most. So, he volunteered for another combat zone deployment.

In his letter, this soldier told me that he has served side-by-side 
with gay soldiers from the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia and 
has seen no evidence to suggest that these nations, which have no 
discriminatory policies against gay and lesbian servicemembers, have a 
problem with unit cohesion. In fact, an openly gay officer from 
Australia with whom he served was decorated with a U.S. medal at the 
end of his tour.

This soldier concluded by asking if, after looking at his service 
record, I thought the military and our nation would be better off 
without his service. My answer is absolutely not. I thank him for his 
service and proudly cast my vote to allow him and all other gay and 
lesbian servicemembers to continue their service to our nation without 
living in fear of being discharged for simply being who they are. Our 
service men and women deserve a policy that honors the principles they 
protect. I stand with our nation's principles. I support the Murphy 
amendment.