# None
## `b60abc920951b5b4876002ddd279e56b`
`Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend, my 
colleague from Pennsylvania.

Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise today in support of House Resolution 754, a 
resolution commending the members of the 56th Stryker Brigade Combat 
Team of the Pennsylvania Army National Guard on the completion of their 
most recent deployment to Iraq. And I thank all of my Pennsylvania 
colleagues for their support of this resolution.

The Stryker is a combat vehicle similar to a tank but operates on 
wheels rather than on tracks. And the vehicle is essential to 
protecting our soldiers' lives and is vital to the Army's Interim 
Brigade Combat Teams. The 56th Stryker is a special unit not just to my 
home State, but my home. My son, Logan, served with the 56th Stryker 
Brigade before changing to Active Duty, and a number of my former Eagle 
Scouts from my scout troop serve currently with the 56th Brigade and 
serve proudly in Iraq.

The 56th Stryker Brigade was deployed in February of this year to 
Iraq and returned home this past summer. And while in Iraq, they 
captured some 80 hidden supply dumps, which caused severe shortages and 
disrupted enemy operations. Their service in Iraq and Afghanistan has 
not gone unnoticed and has saved many lives.

Upon arriving home last month, these heroes were finally embraced by 
their families, their friends and their loved ones. From Venango County 
to Lycoming County, many constituents from my district bravely and 
honorably served on this brigade. We say


''thank you, welcome home,'' and ''God bless you'' for your selfless 
service. Your actions will never be forgotten.

I urge my colleagues to support our troops and vote in the 
affirmative for the underlying resolution.

