---
---

# None
## `b60bd89883347eeb57aa80d67dd05ee2`
`Mrs. McCASKILL — 1 October 2007`

---


Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, I rise to support the Kennedy 
amendment because, frankly, it makes fiscal sense. There has been in 
this administration a rush to contract. They never saw any function of 
government that somehow they didn't believe would be better off in the 
private sector. I am not opposed to privatization just for the sake of 
being opposed to privatization. I have no problem with contracting, if 
it is going to save taxpayers' money and we are still going to get 
quality work on behalf of taxpayers from those contractors working in 
government. But if we have learned anything over the last 6 years, we 
have learned that you don't always get a good deal when you contract.

I know we have spent a lot of time talking over the last few weeks 
about the contracting that went on in Iraq, and I will not dwell on 
that here, but it is exhibit A of how badly government sometimes does 
in the name of saving money when it enters into private contracts.

So what this amendment says is pretty simple, and it is kind of what 
auditors say over and over again until people want us to be quiet; that 
is, compete, compete, compete. Not only should these contracts be 
competitive among potential contractors, they must be competitive with 
the government workers who are currently doing the work. There have 
been many examples of where, in the name of saving money, someone was 
hired to do the job, and it ended up costing us more than had the 
government employees remained on the job. That is just the basics of 
this amendment.

This is nothing new. This has been in a number of Defense 
appropriations bills, and it is in effect for the Department of 
Defense. The A-76 rule, which this is called, is now currently the law 
within the Department of Defense. This will extend it, codify it, make 
it uniform across the Federal Government. If you are going to contract 
out, then the employees have a right to participate in that 
competition. And if the employees of government can show they can do 
the job, as they have been doing, and they can do it for less money 
than the private contractor, then they should get the award in that 
particular competition.

This is a way to not only make sure we are not getting rid of the 
expertise we have in government, it is also a way to reinforce how 
important competition is. We have had competitions that have 
masqueraded as real competitions in this administration a number of 
times. This will make sure we are getting the best value for that very 
precious taxpayer dollar. They are going to have to demonstrate that 
the contract is going to save money in order for the contract to be put 
out to a private entity as opposed to government employees.

I think it is a very solid amendment in terms of watching out for 
taxpayer money. I know it is characterized that this is to protect 
government employees. It is not. It is called protecting taxpayers' 
money. That is why I think this amendment is so important. That is why 
I hope my colleagues will join together to strike another blow on 
behalf of fiscal accountability and making sure we treat taxpayers' 
money with respect and deference and making sure we are spending it 
very wisely.

I yield the floor.