---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT
## `b6228b126332e4e9aeaf45c7ae276161`
`Mrs. HALVORSON — 21 April 2010`

---


Mrs. HALVORSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today for those veterans who 
can't. I rise today for the catastrophically injured veterans who have 
to battle their injuries and their rising health care costs. I rise 
today for those caregivers who dedicate their lives to supporting our 
wounded warriors and our military families. I rise today to support S. 
1963 and the two provisions in the bill that I was proud to author.

The first provision, H.R. 1335, would relieve the burden of costly 
copayments from catastrophically disabled veterans who receive medical 
or nursing home care from the VA. This was the first piece of 
legislation that I introduced when I came to Congress because I knew 
that there are men and women who have served honorably that need our 
help. These are brave men and women who have sacrificed so much so that 
we can enjoy the freedoms that we have every day. These are men and 
women who struggle through their routines in life that we take for 
granted, and they should not have to struggle to make their copays.

Passing this measure into law would be a great way to show our 
support for our wounded warriors and to show that we are truly 
dedicated to making their lives better.

However, it is not just our injured veterans who need our help. Every 
day in districts across the country caregivers provide essential 
services to our veterans. When my stepson, Jay, was injured in 
Afghanistan and recuperating at Walter Reed, I spoke to so many of 
these families who just began their second battle, the battle to 
rehabilitate. That is why I worked to include in this bill H.R. 2898, 
the Wounded Warrior Caregiver Assistance Act, to provide support 
services to those taking care of our wounded warriors. Just as it is 
our duty to care for a disabled soldier, passing this provision would 
help care for those who work tirelessly every day to look after our 
injured veterans.

I urge my colleagues to join me in honoring those who have sacrificed 
for us by supporting this legislation.