# None
## `b628a878fe607574979d2df0f8b54d7c`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Last month, Mr. President, I came to the floor and asked 
unanimous consent for two bills from the Senate Veterans' Affairs 
Committee--I did not ask that the bills be passed, only that they be 
brought to the floor and considered. I talked to Senator Reid of Nevada 
about this and wanted to give Senator Reid the option to determine the 
amount of time in the debate, in consultation with the Republican 
minority.

At that time, just as this morning, a Republican Senator--in that 
case, Senator Larry Craig of Idaho--objected. Why? Well, they objected 
because they did not want us to move to issues involving America's 
veterans. I think our veterans deserve to have legislation such as the 
bills I have asked to be considered.

The first of the two bills is the Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury and 
Health Programs Improvement Act of 2007. That bill would allow 1.3 
million middle-income veterans to enroll for VA health care and 
increase the VA's beneficiary travel reimbursement rate--the first time 
that travel reimbursement rate would be increased in 30 years--to help 
veterans living in rural and remote areas.

There are programs, as well, for the treatment of veterans with 
traumatic brain injuries, the signature injury of the Iraq war.

Finally, the bill provides aid for homeless veterans, which is 
especially important at a time when one out of four homeless people you 
see on the streets in America are veterans.

I asked that this bill be brought up, that we agree on a time limit, 
consider it, and pass it.

Do you know how many speeches have been given on the floor of the 
Senate by Members on both sides of the aisle about our devotion to our 
soldiers, our men and women in uniform? Do you know how many speeches 
have been given on this floor on both sides of the aisle about how much 
we care and owe to our veterans? I am sure you could fill many 
Congressional Records.

So if this job is about more than just speeches and is about doing 
something to actually help our veterans, how could the Republicans 
continue to object? Object to helping veterans make it to the VA 
clinics and hospitals? Object to finding ways to eliminate homelessness 
among veterans? Object to the idea of expanding medical care for 
veterans who are the victims of traumatic brain injury?

If you want to vote against it, so be it. But to not even let us 
bring the bill to the floor for consideration? They did.

The second bill is the Veterans' Benefits Enhancement Act. This 
comprehensive legislation would improve


benefits for all veterans, especially for those with disabilities, and 
it would also correct a sad historical injustice for Filipino World War 
II vets.

Again, I asked for unanimous consent. The Republicans objected. 
However, if the Republican objections are based on substantive 
provisions in the bill, then they should be all the more willing to 
enter into the unanimous consent request I proposed last month and will 
propose again today.

If we can limit amendments to those that are actually relevant to 
veterans issues, it will give an opportunity for all Senators to come 
to the floor and actually speak to an issue that means so much to our 
soldiers, to our veterans, and all of their families.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate may proceed to 
the consideration of Calendar No. 335, S. 1233, Veterans Traumatic 
Brain Injury and Health Programs Improvement Act of 2007, at any time 
determined by the majority leader, following consultation with the 
Republican leader; that when the bill is considered, the only 
amendments in order to the bill, other than the committee-reported 
amendment, be first-degree amendments that are relevant to the subject 
matter of the bill, and that they be subject to relevant second-degree 
amendments; that upon the disposition of all amendments, the committee-
reported substitute amendment, as amended, if amended, be agreed to, 
the bill, as amended, be read the third time, passed, and the motion to 
reconsider be laid upon the table; that the title amendment be agreed 
to, and the motions to reconsider be laid upon the table en bloc; that 
any statements relating thereto be printed in the Record.