---
---

# None
## `b637a1dd63b08c2e18d104444509b9cb`
`Mr. LEVIN — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I am pleased the Senate today returns to 
the consideration of the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal 
year 2008. This bill contains important benefits for our men and women 
in uniform, including pay raises, targeted bonuses and special pays, 
and benefits. It also includes funding and authorities needed to 
provide our troops the equipment and support they will need.

Prompt Senate action on this bill will send an important message. 
Regardless of our position on the war in Iraq, we all support our men 
and women in uniform. The bill was approved by the Armed Services 
Committee on a unanimous 25-to-0 vote, and it is my hope it will 
receive a similarly strong endorsement from the full Senate.

We have a lot of hard work ahead of us before that can happen. As of 
today,


more than 300 amendments have been filed. We are working hard to clear 
as many of these amendments as possible, but some amendments will 
inevitably require votes. Where that is the case, I hope my colleagues 
will work with us to develop appropriate time agreements that protect 
the interests of everybody involved while expediting consideration of 
the bill.

Congress has enacted a Defense Authorization Act every year for more 
than 40 years. I hope we will build on that record and show our strong 
support for our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines by working 
together to pass this bill.

On a procedural note, I understand the President signed the Honest 
Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007 into law on Friday. In 
accordance with the new rules, I am placing into the Record a 
certification that each congressionally directed item in this bill and 
the accompanying report has been identified through lists identifying 
the names of the Senator or Senators requesting the item and that this 
information has been available on the committee's Web site for more 
than 48 hours.

In addition, the committee is in the process of collecting a 
certification from each such Senator that neither the Senator nor the 
Senator's immediate family has a pecuniary interest in the item, and, 
again, that is consistent with the requirements of the Senate rules 
now. In accordance with the requirements of the new rules, we will make 
these certifications available for public inspection on our Web site as 
soon as practicable.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
my certification of compliance with the requirements of the Honest 
Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007.