# HONORING LANCE CORPORAL JEFFREY COLE, USMC
## `b63dfc4b11816b5a6f6c460c627a8e33`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia — 22 September 2010`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Madam Speaker, today I ask the House to 
recognize the service and sacrifice of Lance Corporal Jeffrey Cole, a 
Marine from Woodstock, Georgia. Although just twenty years old, this 
young man has already earned a place in the ranks of America's beloved 
veterans.

Growing up, Jeffrey Cole saw the examples of his family members who 
had served in the Army and Air Force. So it is no surprise that while 
attending Woodstock High School in Georgia's Sixth District, he 
prepared for his own military service as a member of the school's JROTC 
unit. After graduation in 2009, Cole became the first member of his 
family to enlist in the United States Marine Corps, where he attained 
the rank of Lance Corporal.

This past July, duty called. Lance Corporal Cole said goodbye to 
friends, family, and his young wife Brandi and deployed to Afghanistan. 
Just a month later, his unit was ambushed while on patrol and came 
under heavy fire. During this attack, Cole was hit six times--twice in 
the front, once in the back, once on his side, and twice in his left 
arm. Although Cole's flak jacket thankfully stopped the rounds to his 
front and back, severe nerve damage and a severed artery have left him 
with almost no feeling in his arm.

Lance Corporal Cole has now undergone several surgeries to repair his 
arm, although only time will tell if he will ever regain its use. Yet 
despite these wounds, his main concern is about his fellow soldiers 
still in harm's way. It cannot be said strongly enough--this young man 
has earned the thanks, admiration, and respect of every single 
American.

Choosing to don the uniform of this country is one of the most 
selfless and honorable decisions an American can make. Jeffrey Cole 
could have taken many paths in life, but he chose to join our military 
and give back to the country that he loves. It is because of the 
service and sacrifices made by him and his fellow service members and 
veterans that Americans can live free of the oppression and terror 
experienced by so many around the world today.

Lance Corporal Cole will soon return to his family and friends in 
Woodstock, where the Legionnaires of American Legion Post 316 will live 
up to their motto as veterans ''Still Serving America'' by hosting our 
whole community in giving Jeffrey the heartfelt welcome and ''Thank 
You'' he deserves. He has carried out his duty with courage and 
commitment, and it is my distinct honor to welcome him back home.

May God Bless Lance Corporal Jeffrey Cole, our troops still on the 
front lines, and all our veterans for their countless sacrifices in 
defense of this great nation.
