# SUNSET MEMORIAL
## `b64643ba371d9e4381f5caa15310b38e`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 22 January 2009`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, I know that another legislative 
day has come to an end and that sunset approaches fast in Washington, 
DC. So tonight, I want to stand before this House with what I call a 
Sunset Memorial.

You see, it is January 22, 2009, in the land of the free and the home 
of the brave. And before this sunset today in America, almost 4,000 
more defenseless unborn children were killed by abortion on demand. 
That is just today, Mr. Speaker. That is just today, 36 years to the 
day from Roe versus Wade. That is more than the number of innocent 
lives lost on September 11th in this country, but it happens every day.

It has now been exactly 36 years to the day since the tragedy called 
Roe versus Wade was first handed down. Since then, the very foundation 
of this Nation has been stained by the blood of almost 50 million of 
its own unborn children. Some of them, Mr. Speaker, cried and screamed 
as they died. But because it was amniotic fluid going over the vocal 
cords instead of air, we couldn't hear them.

All of them had at least four things in common, Mr. Speaker. First, 
they were just little babies who had done nothing wrong to anyone. And 
each one of them died a nameless and lonely death. And each one of 
their mothers, whether she realizes it or not, will never be quite the 
same. And all the gifts that these children might have brought to 
humanity are now lost forever, Mr. Speaker.

Yet, even in the glare of such tragedy, this generation still clings 
to a blind invincible ignorance while history repeats itself over and 
over again and our own silent genocide mercilessly annihilates the most 
helpless of all victims, those yet unborn.

Mr. Speaker, perhaps it is time for those of us in this chamber to 
remind ourselves of why we are really all here. Thomas Jefferson said, 
''The care of human life and its happiness, and not its destruction, is 
the chief and only object of good government.'' The phrase in the 14th 
Amendment capsulizes our entire Constitution. It says, ''No state shall 
deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of 
law.''

Mr. Speaker, protecting the lives of our citizens and their 
Constitutional rights is why we are all here. The bedrock foundation of 
this republic is that clarion declaration of the self-evident truth 
that all human beings are created equal and endowed by their creator 
with unalienable rights, the rights of life and liberty and the pursuit 
of happiness.

Every conflict and battle our Nation has ever faced can be traced to 
our commitment to this core self-evident truth. It has made us the 
beacon of hope for the entire world, Mr. Speaker. It is who we are. And 
yet today, another day has passed, and we in this body have failed 
again to honor that foundational commitment. We have failed our sworn 
oath and our God given responsibility as we broke faith with nearly 
4,000 more innocent American babies who died today without the 
protection we should have given them.

So, Mr. Speaker, let me conclude this part of my remarks, this sunset 
memorial, in the hopes that perhaps someone new who heard it tonight 
will finally embrace the truth that abortion really does kill little 
babies; that it hurts mothers in ways that we can never express; and 
that it is time we stood up together again and looked to the 
Declaration of Independence; and, that we remember that we are the same 
America that rejected human slavery, and marched into Europe to arrest 
the Nazi Holocaust; and, we are still the courageous and compassionate 
Nation that can find a better way for mothers and their unborn babies 
than abortion on demand.

And, Mr. Speaker, it is such an appropriate time to discuss these 
things. Only a few hours ago, probably no more than 200 yards from this 
well, President-Elect Barack Obama put his hand down on the same Bible 
that Abraham Lincoln was sworn in and took his oath to the Presidency, 
and he took an oath that made him President Obama. And I just would 
remind the country somehow that we need to ask ourselves


again, why do we respect Abraham Lincoln the way we do? Why have we 
made a monument to him down at the Potomac River? Because, you see, 
generations from now they will still be talking about Barack Obama 
putting his hand on the Lincoln Bible.



And I think that the significance of it and the symbolism is powerful 
beyond words. But many voices will also ask, did he hold in his heart 
those same truths that Abraham Lincoln held in his heart when he put 
his hand on the Bible? And when he found the courage as President of 
the United States in the days of slavery and the humanity within 
himself to reach out to slaves that the Supreme Court said were not 
human and that the tide of public opinion didn't recognize as 
protectable under the law, I can say to you, Mr. Speaker, this is one 
Republican that somehow hopes that history will find that Barack Obama 
found an epiphany in his own heart and soul and recognize that these 
little unborn children look to him now for help. And I hope that 
somehow he can recognize that just as Abraham Lincoln was a good 
steward of the deliverance and the hope that was so necessary to 
protect innocent life in the days of slavery, that somehow Barack Obama 
will understand that it is now in his place to have the hope and 
deliverance in his own heart for these little unborn babies.

Mr. Speaker, I hope if nothing else that at least the President now 
can remember that the Bible in which he laid his hand, the pages 
beneath his hand, had the words written in red, inasmuch as you have 
done unto the least of these My brethren, you have done it unto Me.

It is still not too late for us to make a better world and for 
America to be the one that leads the rest of the planet, just as we did 
in the days of slavery, from this tragic genocide of murdering 4,000 of 
our own children every day.

Now, Mr. Speaker, as we consider the plight of the unborn on this 
36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, maybe we can each remind ourselves 
that our own days in this sunshine of life are all numbered and that 
all too soon each one of us will also walk from these Chambers for the 
very last time. And if it should be that this Congress is allowed to 
convene on yet another day, may that day be the day when we will 
finally hear the cries of innocent unborn children. May that be the day 
when we find the humanity, the courage and the will to embrace together 
our human and our constitutional duty to protect these, the least of 
our tiny little American brothers and sisters, from this murderous 
scourge upon our Nation called ''abortion on demand.'' It is January 
22, 2009, 36 years to the day since Roe v. Wade first stained the 
foundation of this Nation with the blood of its own children. This, in 
the land of the free and the home of the brave.

Now, Mr. Speaker, since it is January 22, and since we have made a 
great transition in this country, I feel as if it is also appropriate 
for me tonight to say some words in tribute to one George Walker Bush 
who had the courage, the commitment and the compassion in his soul to 
stand up for these little babies who couldn't stand up for themselves. 
A few days ago, George Bush made his last Presidential speech. When he 
had finished, he graciously wished the Nation and the next President 
success. He said good night. And then he asked for God to bless America 
and all Americans. And he walked down the steps from the podium in the 
hall in the White House as President of the United States of America 
for the very last time.

And President Bush may be gone from us now, but there will always be 
so many of us who deeply honor him, as I try to here this moment, for 
the man he is and the President he has been to America.

As with many great Presidents, it will take a broader and more 
developed perspective of history for most to truly comprehend the 
purpose and impact of the Bush administration. Mr. Speaker, I believe 
history, if it's unbiased, will be very kind to George Bush, not only 
because of his achievements, but because of the obstacles that he 
overcame.

In his Presidency, George Bush faced the catastrophic disaster of 
September 11, the deadliest terrorist attack or any other enemy attack 
against America in her entire history. He faced the calamity of 
Hurricane Katrina, one of the five deadliest storms to ever strike 
American soil. And then President Bush faced a worldwide financial 
crisis demonstrated by the largest 1-day drop in the Dow Jones in the 
history of the Nation.

Now, Mr. Speaker, any sane mind knows President Bush did not cause 
any of those disasters to happen. And any honest mind knows that his 
response to those disasters was due to trying to do what he truly 
thought was the right thing for the country instead of what was right 
for him politically.

There are, indeed, so many tangible threads to the noble legacy of 
President George W. Bush. President Bush, first of all, gave gallant 
and unwavering leadership to America, to our military forces and 
freedoms's march in the world. The men and women in our Armed Forces 
were honored to call President Bush their Commander in Chief. He 
implemented the largest reorganization of our national security 
apparatus in the history of our country. And for 7 years, the deadly 9/
11-scale terrorist attacks against our country that all the experts 
said would follow September 11 were prevented.

The American people may never fully know the number of attacks on 
America that were thwarted because of the intelligence gleaned under 
the leadership of President George W. Bush. We may never know how many 
lives have been spared because, in those uncertain and fearful days 
following 9/11, President George W. Bush had the courage to defend us 
all from the virus of jihadist terrorism, whose proponents believe it 
is the will of God for America to be wiped from the face of the Earth.

Mr. Bush proactively protected America by taking the fight to the 
terrorists. He dismantled their networks and toppled two dangerous 
regimes in Afghanistan and Iraq. Their collective population of 50 
million now live in a freedom that they have never known before. How 
can any of us forget the blue-tipped fingers on the hands held high in 
celebration by millions of Iraqis who had voted for the very first time 
in their lives in a nation that has not known freedom since before it 
was called Babylon, Mr. Speaker? I truly believe one of the great 
legacies of President Bush will be the kindled light of liberty in the 
eyes of those who once recognized that their future could only be an 
ever darkening, hopeless oppression. And now they are free.

Throughout his war on terrorism, and our war on terrorism, President 
Bush often had to walk like a knowing lion, like a knowing lion, Mr. 
Speaker, through the chattering of hyenas and endure the incessant 
insults and thoughtless criticisms of those whose vision only reached 
to the selfish partisan advance of the moment. But if those critics do 
not devour themselves in the meantime, Mr. Speaker, some day they may 
face the bared teeth of an enemy that will make us all wish the lion 
still walked among us.

But because President Bush did not capitulate to the voices of 
surrender and appeasement to terrorists, some of which came from this 
very Chamber, Mr. Speaker, today victory in Iraq has come, and a 
beachhead of freedom in the Middle East has been gained. And if that 
beachhead is maintained and protected in the days ahead, it may serve 
to inspire liberty in other nations in the Middle East and turn the 
whole of human history in freedom's direction, that because George Bush 
was once President of the United States of America.

President Bush was willing to fight, not because he hated what was in 
front of him, but because he loved what was behind him. He loved 
America. He loved freedom. And he loved the innocent.


Mr. Speaker, he was indeed a man of deep, abiding conviction and 
compassion. He launched the PEPFAR initiative, the President's 
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, and treating malaria victims which has 
brought lifesaving treatment and care to more than 10 million people 
worldwide, mostly mothers and their babies, who would otherwise never 
have had it. Mr. Speaker, I personally saw his tears when he looked at 
the pictures of children born in Third World countries with their faces 
severely deformed. I saw his tears again when he stood in the White 
House and watched John


Roberts be sworn in as Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court 
because he knew, Mr. Speaker, that the Constitution and its protections 
of the basic human rights of life, liberty and property for all of 
God's children would be safe in the hands of Chief Justice John 
Roberts.

Mr. Speaker, I believe the noble and faithful legacy of George Bush 
will be borne for generations to come by the judicial fidelity of John 
Roberts and Sam Alito to the plain and timeless meaning of the United 
States Constitution. Posterity will never be able to thank him enough.

President Bush also advocated fearlessly for human rights and for 
religious freedom for the literally one-third of the world's population 
that lives under oppression and human rights abuses. He doubled funding 
for veterans and worked to protect free trade and enacted the largest 
tax relief in an entire generation. He supported numerous successful 
democratic revolutions in countries such as Lebanon, Ukraine and 
Georgia, all in the belief that the surest hope for peace and the 
protection of human dignity is still through liberty inherent to every 
person.

And Mr. Speaker, even though, as we talked about earlier, unborn 
children could never vote for George Bush, he stood unequivocally for 
their right to be born and to one day walk in the warm sunlight of 
freedom in America like the rest of us.

Now, Mr. Speaker, there are many reasons I will remember President 
George W. Bush. I will remember him for his courage. I will remember 
him for his patriotism, for his love of freedom, for his thankful heart 
and his commitment to human dignity and protecting, once again, those 
innocents that could not protect themselves. I will remember him 
because he vowed to keep us safe, and he did. I will remember him 
because he saw the greatness in America. And the greatness of America 
always lived in his own heart. I will remember him because he 
recognized that indeed there is a good and evil in this world. I will 
remember him because he rejected the liberal intelligentsia's posture 
that there was moral equivalence between murdering innocents to advance 
an ideology and liberating the innocent to advance freedom. I will 
remember him because he had both courage and conscience. And moreover, 
he had the courage to follow his conscious. I will remember him because 
he brought honor and dignity to the White House. I will remember him as 
a man who loved and honored his Savior, his wife Laura, his daughters 
Jenna and Barbara, his mother and father and brothers, his entire 
family. He loved his family with all of his heart, Mr. Speaker. And I 
will remember him for loving and holding the entire human family as his 
very own.

But the most touching thing I will forever remember him for, Mr. 
Speaker, was his tender and compassionate heart toward those whose only 
plea was mercy. It is something that God remembers about him, too, Mr. 
Speaker.

Like George Bush, Winston Churchill was used of God to protect the 
world from falling under the sway of a hateful ideology for what might 
have been generations. In the election that followed, the voters turned 
Churchill out of office. And when the press asked him, now what do you 
think, Mr. Churchill? He spoke words that I hope can speak to the heart 
of President Bush.

Mr. Churchill said, the only guide to a man in this life is his 
conscience; the only shield to his memory is the rectitude and 
sincerity of his own actions. And it is very imprudent to walk through 
this life without that shield, because we are all so often mocked by 
the failure of our hopes and the upsetting of our calculations; but 
with this shield, no matter how the fates may play, we march always in 
the ranks of honor.

And Mr. Speaker, like Winston Churchill, in the hearts of so many of 
us, George Bush will always march in the ranks of honor.

Now there are so many things I wish I could say directly to this 
President as he honorably steps away from public life and embraces the 
next great task God has for him on this Earth. Mr. Speaker, if I could 
just talk to him face to face, I think I would just say something like 
this, I would say, Mr. President, I encourage you to remember that 
popularity has been and will always be history's pocket change. It is 
courage, it is courage and love for humanity that are history's true 
currency, and these will always be the transcending hallmarks of your 
Presidency.

Mr. Speaker, I would say, thank you, Mr. President, for protecting 
the citizens of the United States from the dangers of jihadist 
terrorism. I would say, thank you, Mr. President, for protecting my two 
little babies, Joshi and Gracie. Thank you that they will live in a 
brighter, more hopeful future because you were once President of the 
United States. And then, Mr. Speaker, I would simply say to him, Mr. 
President, don't worry too much about America. You left us strong in so 
many ways, in the ways that really count. And I hope you will remember 
the words quoted by one of the wisest and most loving and noble 
Presidents as he spoke of America in the last line of his own inaugural 
address. He said, an angel still rides in a whirlwind and directs this 
storm.

God keep you forever, sir.

That is what I would say to him, Mr. Speaker.

And with that, Mr. Speaker, I would like to yield to Congressman Mike 
Pence for such time as he may consume.

(Mr. PENCE asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)