---
---

# None
## `b64a24fb623912a5463ac171ae5683e5`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 23 March 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker.

I want to thank the Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and our entire Democratic 
leadership for the opportunity for the 30-Something Working Group to 
once again come to the floor and talk about the priorities of the 
Democratic Caucus and the new direction for America that we are humbled 
to be able to lead this country in.

On November 7 of last year, the American people spoke loudly and 
clearly, Mr. Speaker, that it was imperative that we move this Nation 
in a new direction on a variety of issues, not the least of which is 
the direction that we are going in in this war in Iraq. And I am so 
proud today to be able to stand here knowing that the vote that I cast 
personally and that the 217 other Members that passed that legislation 
off this floor this afternoon cast so that we can now finally begin to 
ensure that our troops will have the armor that they need, the armor 
and equipment that they need, a plan to get them home most importantly, 
and to ensure that we can begin to transition in Iraq so that the Iraqi 
people will be able to stand on their own, run their democracy and make 
sure that they can focus on solving the civil war and the strife that 
is going on in the midst of their country, because that is essentially 
what we have been doing for them. What we have been doing for them that 
we can no longer continue to do is inserting ourselves in the middle of 
their chaos without plans to be able to withdraw, without a single 
brigade of their army completely trained to stand on their own. It is 
time and the American people have insisted that it is time to begin to 
move in the direction where we can shift the mission from combat to 
training, where we can focus our troops that will remain there by the 
end of next year on counterterrorism, on putting down the insurgency 
and on making sure that the Iraqi troops are well trained so that they 
can continue to move forward with their experiment in democracy. That 
is what the legislation that we passed today will do, and I am so proud 
of our caucus and of our colleagues and of our leadership for the work 
that we have done together, for the unity that we showed, for the 
courage that so many of our colleagues showed, Mr. Speaker. We have a 
very diverse caucus, a very diverse group of Democratic Members who for 
a variety of reasons, for a variety of soul searching were able to come 
together from all of the different facets of the philosophical 
spectrum, to come together today and pass this extremely important 
legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I have been in public office for 14 years. I have only 
served in the U.S. House of Representatives for 2 years, but that was 
one of the most emotional experiences and the most difficult 
experiences that I know I have gone through. And I cast that vote 
knowing that I had the support of my constituents, knowing and 
confident that my constituents want to make sure that we can bring 
those American troops home.

I had an opportunity to travel and spend some time with our troops at 
Walter Reed Army Medical Center a few weeks ago before we voted on the 
resolution opposing the President's escalation proposal. I have said 
this the last few times we have talked about this on the floor. I had a 
chance to speak to a number of different troops individually. One young 
man who has stayed with me, and I think I've thought about him and his 
family every single day since then. As a mom with little kids, I have 
7-year-old twins and a 3-year-old little girl. Almost every major vote 
I cast, I cast with them in mind. There is another generation of 
Americans who we are going to protect from that vote that we cast 
today. And this young man who I had a chance to meet with, he had just 
gotten home from his third tour of duty. Each was a year. His third 
tour and his 6-year-old little boy was in the room along with his wife 
and his little boy was so excited and just full of vibrancy and life. 
He shook my hand. It was just so neat to be able to talk to him. He 
told me that his daddy was finally going to be coming home for good, 
forever, in August. He had come down with a really inexplicable illness 
and was convalescing at Walter Reed. And when the young man told me 
that he had been through his third tour of duty and that his boy was 6, 
it was not lost on me that he had missed half of his son's life, a 6-
year-old little boy with his dad gone for 3 separate years. That is 
just unacceptable. That is not what the procedures are supposed to 
require of our men and women in uniform. There is supposed to be at 
least 365 days of noncombat duty in between tours. The legislation that 
we passed today will ensure that that will happen. The legislation that 
we passed today will ensure that our troops have the equipment that 
they need. It will ensure that $1.7 billion in funding will provide the 
health care that our veterans need.

I listened to a lot of the speeches on the floor, almost all of them, 
today. What we continually heard from our friends on the other side of 
the aisle was almost as if maybe they didn't


read the bill, maybe they weren't paying attention, but more likely 
they were just being political. I heard comments about how our 
legislation didn't provide the equipment for the troops, when up until 
now it is this President, with the acknowledgment of the military 
leadership, that has sent our troops into harm's way without the proper 
training. We have the least trained, least prepared Army that we have 
ever had at this point, spread as thin as they possibly could be 
spread, and then they have the nerve on the other side of the aisle to 
suggest that it is us that is not providing the protection for our 
troops. That is ludicrous. I'm not sure whether they're not listening 
to their constituents when they're home or not having a chance like I 
did and like I know you have to sit down with troops who have been in 
the line of duty. Maybe they're listening with different ears or maybe 
more likely they're listening with a different heart, because the heart 
that I listened with knows that we can't allow the pointless loss of 
human life anymore, not for our men and women in uniform and not for 
the Iraqi people who are also losing their lives in the midst of chaos. 
If we are going to focus on the war on terror, we should be shifting 
our approach to the war in Afghanistan, where we provide a significant 
infusion of funding, badly needed funding so that we can turn 
Afghanistan back around.

If you recall, Mr. Speaker, after the tragedy of 9/11 and we 
initially went in to respond to that tragedy, to stand up for America, 
we went into Afghanistan and we got rid of the Taliban and we made sure 
that we could restore human rights in that country and we could restore 
the rights of women to go to school and to walk in public without a 
burqa and to really shine the light of freedom on a country that lived 
in darkness for decades. Instead, this President and this Republican 
leadership shifted our focus, lost our purpose, lost their way, or gave 
up is really a better way to put it, and invaded Iraq under false 
pretenses, provided this Congress, many of our colleagues who voted 
''yes'' relying on the information from this administration that it was 
out of necessity. This wasn't a war of necessity. This was a war of 
choice. We don't have the luxury of going into wars of choice, Mr. 
Speaker, when we have wars of necessity like Afghanistan, when we have 
a situation like we have in Iran, where we have a leader in that 
country who has threatened the very existence of the State of Israel, 
our closest ally in the Middle East, where we have nations in the 
Middle East who truly want to see democracy fail. Instead, we have 
created an incubator for terrorism in Iraq.

I heard colleagues on the other side of the aisle speak today about 
how we were going to lose the war on terror if we passed this 
legislation today. Well, the administration has made the war on terror 
worse, has made the likelihood of being attacked greater by creating 
the cesspool that exists in that nation. We must take the steps that 
the legislation that I proudly supported and that you proudly supported 
today, that that legislation will do so that we can put some benchmarks 
in place, so that we can make sure, just like the President said on 
January 10, so that we can establish some benchmarks, make sure that 
the Iraqi leadership meets those benchmarks, and if they don't, then 
the blank check and the open-ended commitment to this pointless war 
will end. That is the direction that we are now moving in.

I am pleased to be joined by my good friend and neighbor from the 
State of Florida, my colleague, Mr. Kendrick Meek.