---
---

# IRAQ
## `b64b73aa956732c280fd485e63161680`
`Mr. KYL — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I wished to, first of all, echo the comments 
of my colleague from Utah. Fred Kagan is an expert, and what he had to 
say in that report and in his subsequent summaries of it is something 
all our colleagues should be familiar with because he makes the very 
clear point that, as this mission is working, right now is not the time 
to change the mission and go back to what it was prior to General 
Petraeus's arrival on the scene.

Yet we still have Members of this body and the other body trying to 
undercut the Petraeus plan in one way or another. The most recent 
effort to do this is one which is especially distressing. Let me give a 
little bit of background.

First, I wish to note that our Democratic colleagues have not taken 
very long to reestablish their reputation--well deserved--as the tax-
and-spend party, as my colleague from Texas pointed out earlier. Now 
that the Democratic Party is in control of the Congress, the agenda is 
very clear. But yesterday, the chairman of the House Appropriations 
Committee went a step too far because he proposed a new tax on every 
American. This one, ostensibly, to fund the war.

Now, there are a lot of different excuses for raising taxes, as my 
colleague from Texas pointed out a while ago, but I don't think we need 
a new tax. If we did, our Democratic colleagues would not be proposing 
$23 billion in more spending than the President proposed in his budget. 
In other words, if a lack of revenue is the problem, then let us not 
keep spending more than has been proposed in the budget. The tax-and-
spend priorities of the Democratic majority are very clear.


No, the real reason for Chairman Obey's plan to raise more taxes is 
to


change our strategy in Iraq, and that is very clear from his own 
comments. Along with the tax he proposed, in fact, he announced he 
would not allow his committee to move forward with the bill the 
President has requested to fund the troops in Iraq.

This is not the Defense authorization or Defense appropriations bill, 
which funds the Pentagon and all the military activities over the 
course of next year. No, this is the money for the troops who are 
fighting right now in Iraq. As I said, the chairman made it very clear 
that was precisely what he intended. In fact, quoting from a Wall 
Street Journal article today, he said:




 Choosing not to move legislation is our strongest card at 


 this point.


Well, this is not a card game, and you shouldn't be playing with the 
lives of our troops by cutting off their funding while they are out in 
the field. If you wish to make a policy point that we should change our 
strategy in Iraq, change our mission, there are ways to do it without 
cutting off the funds while the troops are out there trying to perform 
the mission we have sent them to perform.

I thought the comment of my colleague from New Mexico, Senator 
Domenici, as reported in the Washington Times in a story this morning, 
was charitable and interesting.




 Senator Pete V. Domenici, New Mexico Republican, said Mr. 


 Obey's threat to block war funds was pretty gutsy. But I 


 don't see how it would work. In the end, you have to feed the 


 soldiers.


That is the point. You can cut back Pentagon funding, you can try to 
pass resolutions that call for a change in strategy, but at the end of 
the day, you have to feed the soldiers. You can't refuse to send the 
money to Iraq while the troops are there or you are literally pulling 
out the rug from under the troops.

My colleague, Senator Graham from South Carolina, put it this way:




 The plan to starve the troops of funds would be cheered by 


 America's enemies. This would be a blessing to al-Qaida, 


 which is getting its brains beat out in Iraq.


I remember when Bob Dole ran for the Presidency, and he was trying to 
make some pretty important points and people didn't appear to be 
listening to him. At one point, he said: Where is the outrage? And that 
is the question I ask here. Where is the outrage of pulling the rug out 
from under our troops while they are in theater trying to do what we 
have sent them there to do?

This is not just bad policy, it represents a failure to support the 
troops. Everybody around here says: Well, we all support the troops, we 
disagree with the policy of being in Iraq. Now we have come to the 
point where we are going to try to change that policy by not supporting 
the troops? I don't think this is good policy. I don't think it is fair 
to the troops whom we have sent into harm's way, and it is consistent, 
as I said before, with this whole tax-and-spend ideology.

Try to change policy by withdrawing support for the troops but raise 
taxes on the American taxpayer? It makes no sense at all, unless you 
put it in the context with where the Democratic leadership has been 
going now for some time with respect to the Iraq war. Let me go back a 
little and quote from an article yesterday in the Associated Press.




 Hoping the political landscape changes in coming months, 


 Democratic leaders say they will renew their fight when 


 Congress considers the money Bush wants in war funding.


Well, it didn't take long for that to come true. The Associated Press 
noted:




 The difficulty facing Democrats in the Iraq debate: They 


 lack the votes to pass legislation ordering troops home and 


 are divided on whether to cut money for combat.


I might say the Speaker of the House has already announced her 
opposition to this new tax plan. Democrats are indeed divided. But for 
those who are in authority to refuse to move the legislation forward, 
and who talk about it in terms of it is the best card I have to play, 
have the ability to stop the funding at the very time that the troops 
need the money in the field.

Progress in Iraq, obviously, has been widely reported. An editorial 
today in Investors Business Daily says:




 The new strategy being implemented by General Petraeus 


 seems to have worked extraordinarily well. Al-Qaida has been 


 backpedaling furiously.


So right at the time the strategy is working, we are going to pull 
the money out? It makes no sense.

The Washington Post reports today:




 The numbers of U.S. soldiers and Iraqi civilians reported 


 killed across the country last month fell to their lowest 


 levels in more than a year, a sharp decrease in violent 


 deaths that American military officials attribute in part to 


 the thousands of additional soldiers who have arrived here 


 this year.


And the New York Times today notes:




 The number of violent civilian deaths in Iraq dropped 


 precipitously in September compared with the previous month.


So at a time when the strategy of General Petraeus is working, our 
friends on the other side of the aisle are deciding to pull the funding 
so we can no longer continue the operation. That makes no sense at all. 
But it does fit in with this larger strategy, as I said, to find any 
way they can to change the course in the war.

Let me conclude with this point. It is now October 3, past the 
beginning of the fiscal year on October 1, and yet the Democratic 
majority has not passed one single appropriations bill to the President 
for his signature to fund the government next year. It appears to me 
there is a reason for this.

The Associated Press noted the following in an article on September 
30:




 The most basic job of Congress is to pass the bills that 


 pay the costs of running the government. After criticizing 


 the Republicans for falling down on the job last year, 


 Democrats are now the ones stumbling.


And Roll Call had an editorial 3 days before, and I quote from part 
of it:




 Senate Democrats complain that Republican obstructionism 


 and President Bush's veto threats against nine House-passed 


 bills caused this year's delay. But the arguments don't hold 


 water.



 Instead, it appears likely that the Democrats' failure to 


 pass these spending bills is part of the plan designed to 


 create a giant Omnibus appropriations bill which will 


 tie very directly into their tax-and-spend policies.

According to an editorial today in Congressional Quarterly:




 Democrats may be planning to use a widely supported 


 veterans' bill as the vehicle for their additional spending. 


 Frustrated veterans' groups are trying to pressure Congress 


 to quickly pass a veterans' and military construction bill 


 and not use it as a vehicle for an omnibus measure.


Now, this wouldn't be the first time this kind of game has been 
played, but especially if it is on the Veterans and Military 
Construction bill, or if it is the Defense authorization bill that was 
held up for so long, and now the measure to try to fund the troops in 
Iraq, there is a very disturbing pattern here. Playing games with money 
for veterans and the military in order to get more taxes and spending? 
That is wrong. It is wrong. The American people need to know that at 
the very time when General Petraeus's strategy is showing very positive 
results in Iraq, it is the Democratic plan, at least in the House of 
Representatives, to hold up that funding, not because there is a lack 
of money, not because we need a tax increase to fund it but in order to 
try to change the course of the President's strategy.

That is playing games with the money the troops need in the field. 
Again, as Senator Domenici said, it is a pretty gutsy move, but in the 
end, it would not work because you have to feed the soldiers.