---
---

# IRAQ
## `b6515f287085ae25ec209baa3b136245`
`Mr. BAUCUS — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I think it is clear that the American 
people want the Senate to have a debate on this issue. There is no 
doubt about that. I very much hope that enough Senators, when we vote 
tomorrow, will vote to invoke cloture so we can do just that, have a 
debate. I think for the Senate to not vote to invoke cloture would be 
very irresponsible. I cannot for the life of me imagine why the Senate 
would not conduct that vote. I very much hope when we have that vote 
tomorrow that 60 Senators, more than 60 Senators vote in favor of 
cloture so the Senate can address one of the most fundamental issues 
that I think is on Americans' minds.

I was going to go to Iraq tonight because I wanted to see firsthand 
what is going on. I wanted to talk to troops, talk to commanders. I 
wanted to talk to not only the American personnel but also the Iraqis. 
I wanted to determine, the best I could, the degree to which Prime 
Minister Maliki and the Iraqis are able to stand on their own two feet 
and do what they are supposed to do; that is, govern and run their own 
country. I am not going to go over tonight, obviously. I want to be 
here tomorrow and cast my vote so we can start debating. That is the 
right thing to do.

Based upon what I see in the newspapers, what I see on television, 
based upon the comments of my colleagues who have recently been to 
Iraq, I am very disturbed. To put it simply, Iraq is a mess. It is a 
mess because the United States, to some degree, started it by invading 
the country and opened up Pandora's box and got the Shias and the 
Sunnis and the Kurds all stirred up. Now they are fighting each other.

We did a good thing by toppling Saddam Hussein. That was the right 
thing to do. But we did not think through the consequences. We did not 
understand what we were doing as a country. We did not have an exit 
strategy. We did not know what the consequences of occupation would be.

Certainly, the United States, with its very superior Armed Forces, 
can very easily occupy Iraq--Baghdad. In fact, the occupation was 
probably a little easier than many people anticipated. But when you go 
back and talk to generals, talk to defense personnel, talk to analysts, 
they all--many of them, many of them are very clear in saying that they 
advised the Pentagon not to go ahead and do this until we knew what we 
were doing once we got there. It would be a big mistake, many said, to 
proceed unless we knew what we were doing.

Put simply, there was just no exit strategy. There was none 
whatsoever. I have read so many reports and quotes of so many generals 
advising us to not go into Iraq until we knew what we were doing that I 
am appalled, frankly, at how unprepared the United States was when it 
went in.

All Americans, if they have any second thoughts about that statement 
I just made, they, too, would be appalled if they would read those same 
statements. They are all in the record. They are all in the public 
domain. I strongly urge people to read them and look at them.

The key here, as has been stated by the Senator from Virginia, the 
senior Senator from Virginia, is: Can the Iraqis stand up on their own 
two feet? It is my belief that they are not standing up on their own 
two feet. Clearly, the continued civil war's death toll indicates that 
Iraq is not taking control of the situation. There are so many reports 
that the Iraqi Army is unfit and that they are not doing the job. There 
are questions about how well it is trained or is being trained. Clearly 
the answer is, it is not being trained. They are not doing a good job.


My view is it doesn't make much sense to throw more troops, a modest 
number of more troops, at a failed policy. That is what it comes down 
to. The Iraqis aren't taking care of themselves, and if they aren't 
taking care of themselves, why should we take care of them? We have 
lost so many American lives, so many Montanans, young men and women who 
have been killed over there, and it makes no sense, in my judgment, to 
keep doing this.

That is why I think we should vote on this resolution on Monday and, 
secondly, why I think the resolution should pass. We should not 
continue a failed policy. I don't know very many people who think the 
policy is working. Most think it has failed. So let's, as the U.S. 
Senate, make that statement.

What do we do now? If it has failed, what do we do? I don't think 
anybody has a simple answer. There is no real silver bullet here. But I 
do think we need to give the Iraqis a set date and say to them: We are 
going to get out of here on this set date, and you need to know that. 
My fear is, if we don't do that, they are just going to keep thinking 
the United States is going to keep sending more troops and keep taking 
care of them. It is human nature for them to do so, to think that. That 
is why I believe we should give them a definite date we will start 
bringing our troops home.

I also think we have to engage other countries in the region. We are 
not doing a good job of doing that. This administration says: Well, we 
can't talk to Iran; we shouldn't do that. We can't talk to Syria; we 
shouldn't do that. I don't understand that. It seems to me, if you want 
a solution, you have to talk to people. You have to talk to people who 
are involved. We are talking to the Saudis, we are talking to the 
Jordanians, the Israelis, and others in the region. That is good. But 
two very key players are Iran and Syria.

In life, we talk to our friends, but we should also talk to our 
enemies. We don't have to agree with our enemies, but we should talk to 
them. When you start talking to people with whom you have 
disagreements, after a while you learn there may be a common assumption 
or two. After a while you might learn something that indicates there is 
progress. There might be a little bit of daylight once you start 
talking to somebody. You certainly aren't going to learn anything 
unless you talk to them. The stakes are so high and the consequences 
are so great, I strongly urge the administration to start talking to 
people. So what if the public policy was that we were not going to do 
that in the past. Don't be stubborn. Don't be too proud. Do what is 
right.


Just try to talk to the people in the region so we can find some common 
solutions.

I know it is not going to be easy. It will be very difficult. But I 
know of no other alternative--no other alternative--but to give them a 
date and say: we are out of here; by this certain date we are going to 
start repositioning troops elsewhere in the region. We should tell them 
that so they sober up more--not just Prime Minister Maliki but the 
other principals in the country--and realize they have to start getting 
their act together. As I said, we need to have some very serious 
negotiations with groups in the region and also with countries in the 
region so we can manage the situation as best we possibly can.

This is one of the most serious issues I have confronted since I have 
been in the Senate in the last several years, and I commend my 
colleagues for addressing it so seriously. It is the right thing to do. 
But it is also the right thing to do to start debating this issue in 
the Senate. I think we will be doing the country a great service if we 
do.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.