---
---

# IRAN
## `b66e75c8870687f0524f3fea416667c3`
`Ms. WATERS — 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. WATERS. The subject of my Special Order is Iran.

Madam Speaker, at the time the war in Iraq began in March of 2003, 
who would have thought that we were being led into perhaps the worst 
foreign policy disaster in America's history? Many of us voted against 
the war authorization in the first place. But many more Members wish 
they had voted against it. We now know that this country was led into 
this war with faulty intelligence and a deafening war drum from the 
administration.

The question that we raise tonight is this: Could the Bush 
administration possibly be planning for a war with Iran? There isn't 
any empirical evidence to prove that the Bush administration is 
planning for war. But there are experts that are indeed worried that 
the same playbook that was used to bring this country into the Iraq war 
is now being used to toward Iran. The administration is pushing suspect 
intelligence. And it has severely increased and sharpened since their 
rhetoric first began toward Iran.

We come to the floor tonight to resist efforts by this administration 
to paint war with Iran as a necessary next step in our so-called war on 
terror. A vast majority of foreign policy and military experts agree 
that war with Iran would be a colossal error.

Allow me to spend a few minutes to explain why I feel that U.S. 
strikes against Iran are a real possibility. Let us look at some of the 
signs that we may be headed for war. The increased rhetoric. The 
administration is building the volume of inflammatory rhetoric toward 
Iran in a similar fashion to the run-up to the Iraq war. Strong 
statements about Iran's intervention in Iraq could set the stage for 
U.S. attack on Iranian military or nuclear facility.

Surrogates in the administration, including the President himself, 
have increasingly stressed a full range of negative Iranian behavior, 
including that Iran is killing U.S. soldiers in Iraq, supplying 
weapons, training and funding to special groups.

They also say that Iran is interfering with the peace process in the 
Middle


East. And they go on to talk about General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker as they argued that Iran is the major future threat to 
stability in Iraq.

Iran seeks to build nuclear weapons. When this point was dismissed by 
the recent National Intelligence Estimate stating that Iran had long 
since halted their nuclear enrichment, the administration criticized 
the report.

Allow me to read a short selection of clips from recent press 
clippings that expose the irresponsible rhetoric coming from the Bush 
administration. This headline from the Daily Telegraph on April 7, 
2008: British Fear U.S. Commander is Beating the Drum for Iran Strikes. 
''British officials gave warning yesterday that America's commander in 
Iraq will declare that Iran is waging war against the U.S.-backed 
Baghdad Government. A strong statement from General David Petraeus 
about Iran's intervention in Iraq could set the stage for a U.S. attack 
on Iranian military facilities, according to a Whitehall assessment.''

Another headline: Petraeus Says Iranian-Backed Groups Are Greatest 
Threat to Iraq. This is in the Bloomberg News April 9, 2008. ''The so-
called 'special groups,' which are funded, trained and armed by Iran, 
played a 'destructive role' in the recent clashes between extremist 
militias and Iraqi Government forces in Basra and Baghdad, Petraeus 
said. 'Iran has fueled the violence in a particularly damaging way,' he 
told the House Armed Services Committee today in Washington, his second 
day of testimony to lawmakers. 'Unchecked, the 'special groups' pose 
the greatest long-term threat to the viability of a Democratic Iraq.''

Again, that was the Bloomberg News, April 9, 2008.

Another headline, the Voice of America, April 2, 2008, Israel to 
Redistribute Gas Masks Amid Fears of War with Iran.

''Israel's security Cabinet has decided to redistribute gas masks to 
the entire population amid fears of a nonconventional war with Iran. 
The last distribution was just before the U.S. invasion of Iraq 4 years 
ago.''

Another headline in the New York Times, April 12, 2008. The headline 
reads, Iran Fighting Proxy War in Iraq, U.S. Envoy Says.

''Iran is engaging in a proxy war with the United States in Iraq, 
adopting tactics similar to those it has used to back fighters in 
Lebanon, the United States ambassador to Iraq said Friday. While Bush 
administration officials have long denounced what they have described 
as Iran's meddling in Iraq, Mr. Crocker's language was unusually strong 
from Mr. Bush down, administration officials this week have been 
turning up the volume on Iran.''

A further sign that the U.S. may be headed for war is Admiral 
Fallon's resignation. In the aftermath of the disastrous invasion of 
Iraq, there has been discussion within media and in the military that 
senior military officers should have resigned when they knew the White 
House to be heading to a reckless war in Iraq.

Some are speculating that the recent retirement of Admiral Fallon is 
a direct result of his steadfast opposition to war with Iran. He even 
made his disagreements with the administration public before his 
retirement.

In a now-famous profile that Admiral Fallon agreed to do for Esquire 
magazine, he was characterized as the only man standing between war 
with Iran.

Let me read an excerpt from that article.

This was Esquire magazine, March 11, 2008. The title is ''The Man 
Between War and Peace.'' The article goes on to say that if in the 
dying light of the Bush administration, we go to war with Iran, it will 
all come down to one man. If we do not go to war with Iran, it will all 
come down to one, that same man. So while Admiral Fallon's boss, 
President George W. Bush, regularly trash-talks his way to world war 
III and his administration casually casts Iranian President Mahmoud 
Ahmadinejad as this century's Hitler, a crown it has awarded once 
before, to deadly effect, it's left to Fallon, and apparently Fallon 
alone, to argue that, as he told al Jazeera last fall, this constant 
drumbeat of conflict is not helpful and not useful.

Another sign that the U.S. may be thinking about war is the offensive 
against the Mahdi Army. Moqtada al Sadr has promised full-scale attacks 
on America's interests in Iraq in the event of strikes on Iran. As 
commander of the multinational force in Iraq, General David Petraeus 
still presides as the commander of the Iraqi security forces as well. 
Any operation against the Mahdi Army would have been authorized by him. 
What motivation did the United States have in fueling a violent 
confrontation with the powerful militia at a time when al Sadr had 
declared a truce and the progress of the surge was being reported to 
Congress?

One explanation is that recent operations against al Sadr's militia, 
the Mahdi Army, may have been meant to neutralize possible resistance 
inside of Iraq in the event of a strike on Iran.



The following five reasons are taken verbatim from an article in U.S. 
News and World Report that was published on March 5th entitled ''Six 
Signs the U.S. May Be Headed For War in Iran.''

Before I go into the five reasons that I have taken verbatim from 
this article in U.S. News and World Report, I am going to recognize the 
Congresswoman from Oakland, California, Barbara Lee, who is cochair of 
the Progressive Caucus. She is one of the co-founders of the Out of 
Iraq Caucus. She has been consistent in her resistance to this war in 
Iraq.

She is an organizer. She is a constant speaker on the speaking 
engagement circuit, speaking with groups and organizations all over 
this country who want to hear from Barbara Lee about what is going on 
in Congress.

The question she is most confronted with is when will this Congress 
end the war and bring our soldiers home? What are you going to do about 
a President who is ignoring the will of the people and ignoring the 
will of Congress in their attempts to resist the continued funding of 
the war? Every weekend, somewhere in this country, Barbara Lee is 
attempting to answer those questions and engage the American citizens 
about what is happening here.

I yield to Barbara Lee.