---
---

# None
## `b67047a6be4a70269eb86f7b39eae7c6`
`Mr. BYRD — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, in his essay on ''Politics and the English 
Language,'' George Orwell laments the abuse of speech by political 
leaders. He notes how certain words are so vague in meaning that they 
can be twisted and distorted into something they are not. What is 
entirely altruistic, he argues, can be made to seem repugnant and 
avaricious.

One such Orwellian word that has found its way into our political 
lexicon is ''earmark.'' This poor, wretched, maligned word has had 
scorn heaped upon it. It has been equated with corruption and invoked 
to describe dastardly, behind-the-scenes machinations--sometimes real, 
but mostly imagined.

President Bush has enthusiastically embraced this Orwellian line. In 
his State of the Union Address, the President asked the Congress to 
reduce Congressional earmarks by half and threatened to veto any bill 
that does not comply. He instructed executive agencies to ignore 
Congressional guidance on earmarks for fiscal year 2009. Let the 
executive agencies make the spending decisions, his argument goes.

Certainly the White House budget office would like us to do that. I 
don't expect officials from that office to understand the critical 
needs of the communities we represent. They do not meet with our 
constituencies. They do not know our States and their people. They do 
not see what we see. An earmark may be pork to some political chatter 
box on television, but it could be an economic lifeline for a 
community. It may be a road that has fallen into dangerous disrepair or 
a bridge that is on the verge of collapse. An earmark is an economic 
need that many times falls between the cracks of the Washington 
bureaucracy. When that happens, the people we represent cannot call 
some unelected bureaucrat in the White House budget office. They cannot 
get a Cabinet Secretary on the line. When they need help, they come to 
us, their elected representatives. These are the working people in our 
society. Their priorities may be considered unimportant by some, but 
it's our job to make sure critical needs in our States are addressed.

Some earmarked spending has proven to be a tremendous asset to this 
country. Children's Hospital, here in the District of Colombia, which 
has served over 5 million critically-ill children, was built with 
earmarked funds. Human genome research was initiated by an earmark 
sponsored by our colleague Senator Domenici. The WIC program, which has 
provided essential nutrition to 150 million women, infants, and 
children, was started as an earmark. The Predator unmanned aircraft, 
which has been so effective in the Global War on Terror, was built with 
an earmark.

The DeMint amendment before the Senate today fails to acknowledge the 
existence of these achievements. The amendment does not recognize that 
Members of Congress know the needs of the people they represent better 
than unelected bureaucrats at the White


House budget office. The idea that an all-knowing, all-powerful 
executive bureaucracy is more trustworthy than the elected 
representatives of the people when it comes to spending taxpayer 
dollars challenges the most basic tenet of our political system.

Frankly, the effort to demonize earmarks is a ruse; it is a feint; it 
is an effort to distract Americans from horrendous budget deficits 
which have mushroomed under President Bush. When President Bush took 
office, this Nation had just completed 4 straight years of budget 
surpluses. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the surplus 
between 2002 and 2011 would be $5.6 trillion. Now, according to the 
White House's own budget documents, we are facing $2.7 trillion of debt 
over those same 10 years. During the Bush Presidency, our government 
will have experienced the five largest annual deficits in the history 
of the Republic. The author of this amendment would like Americans to 
think that these deficits were caused by earmarks. What poppycock. If 
anyone thinks they can eliminate the $400 billion deficit by 
eliminating earmarks, they need to take a refresher course in 
arithmetic.

In fiscal year 2008, the total cost of the Bush tax cuts will be $252 
billion--21 times the amount of earmark spending in question. In fiscal 
year 2008, the cost of the tax cuts for the wealthiest one percent of 
taxpayers will be almost $70 billion--6 times the amount of spending in 
question. In fiscal year 2008, special interest tax favors will cost $1 
trillion--83 times the amount of spending in question. Corporate tax 
hand-outs will cost $91 billion--over 76 times the amount of spending 
in question. The level of Congressional earmarks is one-fiftieth of 
what this country has exhausted on the war in Iraq.

I implore my colleagues to look at the facts. Last year, the 
President proposed almost 2,000 earmarks, totaling more than $22 
billion. Earmarks exploded under the Bush administration, including 
presidential earmarks for cattle fever ticks, fruit flies, and light 
brown apple moths. When President Bush signed the highway bill in 2005, 
it contained over 6,000 earmarks, 50 percent more earmarks than all the 
previous highway bills combined.

In the past year, it was the Congress that took the initiative to 
limit earmarks. In 2007, we had a moratorium on earmarks until rules 
could be enacted that would add transparency to the process of 
earmarking funds. Last year, Congress enacted new rules that added 
unprecedented transparency and accountability to the process of 
earmarking funds. These were needed.

Adding transparency and accountability to the earmarking process is 
responsible. Reducing the level of earmarks below the levels approved 
by President Bush for fiscal year 2005, is responsible. We have already 
taken these steps. But pretending that we can save money by eliminating 
earmarks is pure folly. It is poppycock. It is also bad policy. The 
Constitution gives the power over the purse to Congress. That is the 
most effective way to check an irresponsible President of either party. 
Congress must not cede decisions about how the taxpayers' money should 
be spent.

It's simply ridiculous to criticize Federal investments in local and 
State communities without having visited the neighborhoods that will 
benefit, without talking with the people who live there, and without 
understanding the local planning that is involved. The earmark is the 
safety net under blind formulas. It brings local concerns of average 
people into the funding process. A Republic cannot address its needs 
based on formulas and the educated guesses of bureaucrats. The earmark 
ushers judgment, compassion, need, humanity, decency, and common sense 
into the budget process. Certainly our bloated, bureaucratic Federal 
Government could use a whole lot more of all of those virtues.

I urge a ''no'' vote on the amendment.