---
---

# None
## `b68e9b3e59b8d0c9b9bc1d2b704fa07f`
`Mr. BERMAN — 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Madam Speaker, on July 15, the Secretary of Defense, 
Robert M. Gates, was honored at the annual Tribute Dinner of the U.S. 
Global Leadership Campaign, USGLC, for his leadership in supporting our 
Government's foreign affairs budget. The USGLC has been an important 
organization supporting adequate funding levels for the conduct of our 
country's foreign affairs and international assistance programs. 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice introduced Secretary Gates and 
acknowledged his contributions.

In his remarks, Secretary Gates strongly advocated for a robust 
civilian capacity within the U.S. Government: ''When it comes to 
America's engagement with the rest of the world, it is important that 
the military is--and is clearly seen to be--in a supporting role to 
civilian agencies.'' In order to further U.S. national security, 
Secretary Gates argued that our civilian institutions of diplomacy and 
development


must be adequately staffed and properly funded. It is a message that 
Secretary Gates has been giving to the American people and to our 
nation's leadership here in Washington.

I wholeheartedly agree with Secretary Gates' thoughtful statement and 
welcome his support for rebuilding the US civilian diplomatic and 
development capacity. Over the last four months, I have held a number 
of hearings of the House Foreign Affairs Committee on reforming 
American foreign assistance programs and rebuilding our civilian 
capacity. We will be having another hearing on this issue in September.

Madam Speaker, the next Congress and the next Administration will 
have to take on the necessary, but difficult task of reforming our 
foreign assistance programs, and equally important, improving the 
diplomatic and development functions within our government. I look 
forward to this job that lies ahead of us.

Madam Speaker, I ask that the full text of Secretary Gates' remarks 
to the U.S. Global Leadership Campaign be placed in The Record, and I 
urge my colleagues to give careful attention to the Secretary's 
thoughtful speech.


America's Voice for Security, Prosperity, and Humanitarian Values--

 Remarks by Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates at USGLC Tribute 












 Dinner, July 15, 2008




 Thank you very much for the introductions. Thank you Condi 


 Rice for the kind words, and above all, for your principled 


 and visionary leadership of the Department of State.



 One of the reasons I have rarely been invited to lecture in 


 political science departments--including at Texas A&M--is 


 because faculty correctly suspect that I would tell the 


 students that what their textbooks say about government does 


 not describe the reality I have experienced in working for 


 seven presidents. Organization charts, institutions, 


 statistics, structures, regulations, policies, committees, 


 and all the rest--the bureaucracy, if you will--are the 


 necessary pre-condition for effective government. But whether 


 or not it really works depends upon the people and their 


 relationships. For significant periods since I entered 


 government 42 years ago, the Secretary of State and Secretary 


 of Defense were not on speaking terms. The fact that Condi 


 and I actually get along means that our respective 


 bureaucracies understand that trying to provoke us to fight 


 with one another is not career-enhancing. Such efforts still 


 occur, of course. After all, this is Washington. But the 


 bureaucratic battles are a good deal more covert.



 Of course, the human side of government is always a source 


 of both humor and embarrassment. Will Rogers once said, ''I 


 don't make jokes. I just watch the government and report the 


 facts.'' And the conduct of diplomacy, where--as Secretary 


 Rice can attest--protocol and propriety are so very 


 important, provides an especially fertile ground for 


 amusement.



 For example, there was the time that President Nixon met 


 with Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir, shortly after Nixon 


 had appointed Henry Kissinger as Secretary of State. With 


 Golda Meir in that meeting was her very erudite foreign 


 minister, Abba Eban, a graduate of Cambridge. At one point in 


 the meeting, Nixon turned to Golda Meir and said, ''Just 


 think, we now both have Jewish foreign ministers.'' And 


 without missing a beat Golda Meir said, ''Yes, but mine 


 speaks English.''



 Then there was the time that President Nixon visited Italy 


 and had a meeting with the Pope. Kissinger and Nixon had 


 along with them Secretary of Defense Mel Laird, but they 


 decided that Laird as, in effect, secretary of war shouldn't 


 be invited to a meeting with the Pope. So, Nixon the next 


 morning went in for his private audience with the Pope, and 


 the other Americans waited outside for the general audience. 


 And who should come striding down the hall of the papal 


 apartments but Mel Laird smoking an enormous cigar, he had 


 decided he wanted in on the meeting. Kissinger was beside 


 himself, but finally said, ''Well, Mel, at least extinguish 


 the cigar.'' And so Laird stubbed out his cigar and put it in 


 his pocket.



 The rest of the American party a few minutes later went in 


 to their meeting with the Pope, everyone took a seat. A 


 couple of minutes into the Pope's remarks, Kissinger heard 


 this little patting sound going on, he was in the second row 


 with Laird on the end, there was a wisp of smoke coming out 


 of Laird's pocket. Everything seemed under control. A couple 


 of minutes later, Kissinger heard this loud slapping noise. 


 He looked over smoke was billowing out of Laird's pocket. The 


 Secretary of Defense was on fire. Now the rest of the 


 delegation heard this slapping noise, and they thought they 


 were being cued to applaud the Pope. And so they did. And 


 Henry later told us, ''God only knows what his Holiness 


 thought, seeing the American secretary of defense immolating 


 himself, and the entire American party applauding the fact.''



 I am honored to receive this award, and I consider it a 


 privilege to be associated with the United States Global 


 Leadership Campaign. It is a truly remarkable collection of 


 ''strange bedfellows''--from Save the Children to 


 Caterpillar, from Catholic Relief Services to AIPAC, and even 


 Boeing and Northrop Grumman. This organization has been a 


 prescient, and often lonely, advocate for the importance 


 of diplomacy and international development to America's 


 vital national interests--and I commend you for that.



 Though my views on these subjects have become better known 


 through recent speeches, in many ways they originated and 


 were reinforced by my prior experience in government during 


 the Cold War. Looking back, it is clear that the strength of 


 America's military forces and intelligence capabilities--


 along with the willingness to use them--held the Soviets at 


 bay for more than four decades. But there was another side to 


 that story and to that struggle. There was the Agency for 


 International Development overseeing development and 


 humanitarian assistance programs that improved--if not 


 saved--the lives of millions of people from disease, 


 starvation, and poverty. Our diplomats forged relationships 


 and bonds of trust, and built up reservoirs of expertise and 


 goodwill that proved invaluable over time. Countless people 


 in foreign countries wandered into a United States 


 Information Agency library, or heard from a visiting speaker 


 and had their opinions about America transformed by learning 


 about our history and culture and values. Others behind the 


 Iron Curtain were inspired to resist by what they heard on 


 Radio Free Europe and the Voice of America.



 In all, these non-military efforts--these tools of 


 persuasion and inspiration--were indispensable to the outcome 


 of the defining ideological struggle of the 20th century. I 


 believe that they are just as indispensable in the 21st 


 century--and maybe more so.



 Just last month I approved a new National Defense Strategy 


 that calls upon us to ''Tap the full strength of America and 


 its people''--military and civilian, public and private--to 


 deal with the challenges to our freedom, prosperity, and 


 security around the globe.



 In the campaign against terrorist networks and other 


 extremists, we know that direct military force will continue 


 to have a role. But over the long term, we cannot kill or 


 capture our way to victory. What the Pentagon calls 


 ''kinetic'' operations should be subordinate to measures to 


 promote participation in government, economic programs to 


 spur development, and efforts to address the grievances that 


 often lie at the heart of insurgencies and among the 


 discontented from which the terrorists recruit. It will take 


 the patient accumulation of quiet successes over time to 


 discredit and defeat extremist movements and their ideology.



 We also know that over the next 20 years and more certain 


 pressures--population, resource, energy, climate, economic, 


 and environmental--could combine with rapid cultural, social, 


 and technological change to produce new sources of 


 deprivation, rage, and instability. We face now, and will 


 inevitably face in the future, rising powers discontented 


 with the international status quo, possessing new wealth and 


 ambition, and seeking new and more powerful weapons. But, 


 overall, looking ahead, I believe the most persistent and 


 potentially dangerous threats will come less from ambitious 


 states, than failing ones that cannot meet the basic needs--


 much less the aspirations--of their people.



 In my travels to foreign capitals, I have been struck by 


 the eagerness of so many foreign governments to forge closer 


 diplomatic and security ties with the United States--ranging 


 from old enemies like Vietnam to new partners like India. 


 Nonetheless, regard for the United States is low among the 


 populations of many key nations--especially those of our 


 moderate Muslim allies.



 This is important because much of our national security 


 strategy depends upon securing the cooperation of other 


 nations, which will depend heavily on the extent to which our 


 efforts abroad are viewed as legitimate by their publics. The 


 solution is not to be found in some slick PR campaign or by 


 trying to out-propagandize al-Qaeda, but rather through the 


 steady accumulation of actions and results that build trust 


 and credibility over time.



 To do all these things, to truly harness the ''full 


 strength of America,'' as I said in the National Defense 


 Strategy, requires having civilian institutions of diplomacy 


 and development that are adequately staffed and properly 


 funded. Due to the leadership of Secretary Rice and before 


 her Secretary Powell, and with the continuing strong support 


 of the President, we have made significant progress towards 


 pulling ourselves out of the hole created not only by the 


 steep cutbacks in the wake of the Cold War--but also by the 


 lack of adequate resources for the State Department and the 


 entire foreign affairs account going back decades.



 Since 2001, international affairs spending has about 


 doubled, State has begun hiring again, billions have been 


 spent to fight AIDS and malaria in Africa, the Millennium 


 Challenge Corporation is rewarding better governance in the 


 developing world, and Secretary Rice has launched a program 


 of transformational diplomacy to better posture the 


 diplomatic corps for the realities of this century. The 


 President's budget request this year, as Condi said, includes 


 more than 1,100 new Foreign Service officers, as well as a 


 response corps of civilian experts that can deploy on short 


 notice. And, for the first time in a long time, I sense real 


 bipartisan support in Congress for strengthening the civilian 


 foreign affairs budget.



 Shortfalls nonetheless remain. Much of the total increase 


 in the international affairs budget has been taken up by 


 security costs and offset by the declining dollar, leaving 


 little left over for core diplomatic operations. These 


 programs are not well understood or appreciated by the wider 


 American




 public, and do not have a ready-made political constituency 


 that major weapons systems or public works projects enjoy. As 


 a result, the slashing of the President's international 


 affairs budget request has too often become an annual 


 Washington ritual--right up there with the blooming of the 


 cherry blossoms and the Redskins' opening game.



 As someone who once led an agency with a thin domestic 


 constituency, I am familiar with this dilemma. Since arriving 


 at the Pentagon I've discovered a markedly different budget 


 dynamic--not just in scale but the reception one gets on the 


 Hill. Congress often asks the military services for lists of 


 things that they need, but that the Defense Secretary and the 


 President were too stingy to request. As you can imagine, 


 this is one congressional tasking that prompts an immediate 


 and enthusiastic response.



 It has become clear that America's civilian institutions of 


 diplomacy and development have been chronically undermanned 


 and underfunded for far too long--relative to what we spend 


 on the military, and more important, relative to the 


 responsibilities and challenges our nation has around the 


 world. I cannot pretend to know the right dollar amount--I 


 know it's a good deal more than the one percent of the 


 federal budget that it is right now. But the budgets we are 


 talking about are relatively small compared to the rest of 


 government, a steep increase of these capabilities is well 


 within reach--as long as there is the political will and 


 wisdom to do it.



 But even as we agree that more resources are needed, I 


 believe that there is more to this problem than how much 


 money is in the 150 Account. The challenge we face is how 


 best to integrate these tools of statecraft with the 


 military, international partners, and the private sector.



 Where our government has been able to bring America's 


 civilian and the military assets together to support local 


 partners, there have been incredibly promising results. One 


 unheralded example, one you will not read about in the 


 newspapers, is in the Philippines. There the U.S. 


 Ambassador--Kristie Kenney--has overseen a campaign involving 


 multiple agencies working closely together with their 


 Philippine counterparts in a synchronized effort that has 


 delegitimized and rolled back extremists in Mindanao. Having 


 a strong, well-supported chief of mission has been crucial to 


 success.



 The vastly larger, more complex international effort in 


 Afghanistan presents a different set of challenges. There are 


 dozens of nations, hundreds of NGOs, universities, 


 development banks, the United Nations, the European Union, 


 NATO--all working to help a nation beset by crushing poverty, 


 a bumper opium crop, and a ruthless and resilient insurgency. 


 Getting all these different elements to coordinate operations 


 and share best practices has been a colossal--and often all 


 too often unsuccessful--undertaking. The appointment this 


 spring of a UN special representative to coordinate civilian 


 reconstruction in Afghanistan is an important step forward. 


 And at the last NATO defense ministerial, I proposed a 


 civilian-military planning cell for Regional Command South to 


 bring unity to our efforts in that critically important part 


 of the country. And I asked Kai Eide, when I met with him 


 last week, to appoint a representative to participate in this 


 cell.



 Repeating an Afghanistan or an Iraq--forced regime change 


 followed by nation-building under fire--probably is unlikely 


 in the foreseeable future. What is likely though, even a 


 certainty, is the need to work with and through local 


 governments to avoid the next insurgency, to rescue the next 


 failing state, or to head off the next humanitarian disaster.



 Correspondingly, the overall posture and thinking of the 


 United States armed forces has shifted--away from solely 


 focusing on direct American military action, and towards new 


 capabilities to shape the security environment in ways that 


 obviate the need for military intervention in the future. 


 This approach forms the basis of our near-term planning and 


 influences the way we develop capabilities for the future. 


 This perspective also informed the creation of Africa 


 Command, with its unique interagency structure, a deputy 


 commander who is an ambassador not a general, as well as 


 Southern Command's new orientation and priorities in Latin 


 America.



 Overall, even outside Iraq and Afghanistan, the United 


 States military has become more involved in a range of 


 activities that in the past were perceived to be the 


 exclusive province of civilian agencies and organizations. 


 This has led to concern among many organizations--perhaps 


 including many represented here tonight--about what's seen as 


 a creeping ''militarization'' of some aspects of America's 


 foreign policy.



 This is not an entirely unreasonable sentiment. As a career 


 CIA officer I watched with some dismay the increasing 


 dominance of the defense 800 pound gorilla in the 


 intelligence arena over the years. But that scenario can be 


 avoided if--as is the case with the intelligence community 


 today--there is the right leadership, adequate funding 


 of civilian agencies, effective coordination on the 


 ground, and a clear understanding of the authorities, 


 roles, and understandings of military versus civilian 


 efforts, and how they fit, or in some cases don't fit, 


 together.



 We know that at least in the early phases of any conflict, 


 contingency, or natural disaster, the U.S. military--as has 


 been the case throughout our history--will be responsible for 


 security, reconstruction, and providing basic sustenance and 


 public services. I make it a point to reinforce this message 


 before military audiences, to ensure that the lessons learned 


 and re-learned in recent years are not forgotten or again 


 pushed to the margins. Building the security capacity of 


 other nations through training and equipping programs has 


 emerged as a core and enduring military requirement, though 


 none of these programs go forward without the approval of the 


 Secretary of State.



 In recent years the lines separating war, peace, diplomacy, 


 and development have become more blurred, and no longer fit 


 the neat organizational charts of the 20th century. All the 


 various elements and stakeholders working in the 


 international arena--military and civilian, government and 


 private--have learned to stretch outside their comfort zone 


 to work together and achieve results.



 For example, many humanitarian and international 


 organizations have long prided themselves on not taking sides 


 and avoiding any association with the military. But as we've 


 seen in the vicious attacks on Doctors Without Borders in 


 Afghanistan, and the U.N. Mission in Iraq, violent extremists 


 care little about these distinctions.



 To provide clearer rules of the road for our efforts, the 


 Defense Department and ''InterAction''--the umbrella 


 organization for many U.S.-based NGOs--have, for the first 


 time, jointly developed guidelines for how the military and 


 NGOs should relate to one another in a hostile environment. 


 The Pentagon has also refined its guidance for humanitarian 


 assistance to ensure that military projects are aligned with 


 wider U.S. foreign policy objectives and do not duplicate or 


 replace the work of civilian organizations.



 Broadly speaking, when it comes to America's engagement 


 with the rest of the world, you probably don't hear this 


 often from a Secretary of Defense, it is important that the 


 military is--and is clearly seen to be--in a supporting role 


 to civilian agencies. Our diplomatic leaders--be they in 


 ambassadors' suites or on the seventh floor of the State 


 Department--must have the resources and political support 


 needed to fully exercise their statutory responsibilities in 


 leading American foreign policy.



 The challenge facing our institutions is to adapt to new 


 realities while preserving those core competencies and 


 institutional traits that have made them so successful in the 


 past. The Foreign Service is not the Foreign Legion, and the 


 United States military should never be mistaken for the Peace 


 Corps with guns. We will always need professional Foreign 


 Service officers to conduct diplomacy in all its dimensions, 


 to master local customs and culture, to negotiate treaties, 


 and advance American interests and strengthen our 


 international partnerships. And unless the fundamental nature 


 of humankind and of nations radically changes, the need--and 


 will to use--the full range of military capabilities to 


 deter, and if necessary defeat, aggression from hostile 


 states and forces will remain.



 In closing, I am convinced, irrespective of what is 


 reported in global opinion surveys, or recounted in the 


 latest speculation about American decline, that around the 


 world, men and women seeking freedom from despotism, want, 


 and fear will continue to look to the United States for 


 leadership.



 As a nation, we have, over the last two centuries, made our 


 share of mistakes. From time to time, we have strayed from 


 our values; on occasion, we have become arrogant in our 


 dealings with other countries. But we have always corrected 


 our course. And that is why today, as throughout our history, 


 this country remains the world's most powerful force for 


 good--the ultimate protector of what Vaclav Havel once called 


 ''civilization's thin veneer.'' A nation Abraham Lincoln 


 described as mankind's ''last, best hope.''



 For any given cause or crisis, if America does not lead, 


 then more often than not, what needs to be done simply won't 


 get done. In the final analysis, our global responsibilities 


 are not a burden on the people or on the soul of this nation. 


 They are, rather, a blessing.



 Thank you for this award and I salute you for all that you 


 do--for America, and for humanity.
