---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `b6a0ffcca48bfab52123ddd37412e92a`
`Mr. HATCH — 12 December 2009`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, yesterday the administration's own 
Department of Health and Human Services health analysis warned 
Americans about the impact of this bill. According to the official 
scorekeepers at CMS, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, 
the Reid health care bill will actually not only increase our national 
health care costs by $234 billion over the next 10 years but will also 
reduce access and cut benefits for our seniors. This nonbiased report 
simply proves what we have been saying all along: You cannot reform a 
$2.4 trillion health care system simply by spending another $2.5 
trillion of hard-earned taxpayer money. Despite all the rhetoric from 
the other side about this historic legislation, the only thing this 
bill accomplishes, after imposing $/1/2/ trillion in new taxes and $/1/
2/ trillion in Medicare cuts, is to simply bend our Nation's health 
care cost curve up.

As a longtime supporter of the Medicare Advantage Program, I offered 
an amendment on the Senate floor to strip nearly $120 billion in cuts 
to the Medicare Advantage Program that provides comprehensive health 
benefits, including vision, dental, and reduced cost-sharing, to almost 
11 million seniors.

Unfortunately, despite statements from the Congressional Budget 
Office that these cuts would result in reduced cuts for seniors 
enrolled in Medicare Advantage, Democrats in the Senate voted to keep 
the cuts in the package to finance more Federal spending--$500 billion 
in cuts in Medicare. Whom are they kidding? Medicare has $38 trillion 
in unfunded liabilities.

This report is another reminder of why it was a mistake to not adopt 
my amendment. The CMS Actuary found that the cuts to the Medicare 
Advantage Program in the Reid bill would not only result in ''less 
generous benefit packages'' for our seniors but, more important, it 
would decrease enrollment in Medicare Advantage plans by 33 percent.

Clearly, health care spending continues to grow too fast. This year 
will mark the largest ever 1-year jump in the health care share of our 
GDP. This jump is a full percentage point to 17.6 percent. You can 
think of this as a horse race between costs and resources to cover 
those costs. The sad reality is that costs win year after year.

Growing health care costs translate directly into higher coverage 
costs. Since the last decade, the cost of health coverage has increased 
by 120 percent, three times the growth of inflation and four times the 
growth of wages. Rising costs is the primary driver behind why we 
continue to see a rising number of uninsured in our country


and why increasing numbers of businesses find it hard to compete in a 
global market.

Without addressing this central problem, we cannot have a real and 
sustainable health care reform bill. So what does this $2.5 trillion 
tax-and-spend bill do to address health care costs? Absolutely nothing. 
According to the Congressional Budget Office, the premiums for 
Americans who buy insurance on their own will actually increase by 10 
to 13 percent, while premiums for small and large groups will largely 
remain unchanged and continue to rise between 5 to 6 percent a year.

Furthermore, according to the CMS report, the new fees on 
prescription drugs, medical devices, such as wheelchairs and hearing 
aids, and health care plans will not only increase overall health care 
prices but also health insurance premiums for millions of Americans.

Let me make this point as clearly as I can. This bill does not 
address the underlying problem of slowing down the growth of health 
care costs. It simply spends hundreds of billions of dollars in new 
subsidies to buy out the cost of these increases for families making up 
to $80,000 a year. Instead of fixing the real problems, this bill 
simply tries to spend its way out of the problems. Does that sound new 
to you? This administration seems to think that just throwing money at 
things is going to help.

We have been hearing a lot recently about how Democrats are throwing 
the government-run plan out of their bill to quickly jam this bill 
through the Senate before Christmas. The American people need to be 
careful about believing this propaganda. The Democratic solution to the 
government plan is a Ponzi scheme that would embarrass even Bernie 
Madoff himself.


I have to be fair here. I have to rely on news reports to discuss 
these provisions. You heard me right--news reports. Why is that? 
Because no one knows what is actually in the bill they have sent to the 
CBO. Not even my friends on the Democratic side, by and large, know. 
The Reid bill was put together by very few Democrats with the White 
House in the back rooms of the Capitol. Nobody really knew what they 
were doing until they came out with it.

Once we all saw it, we all realized what a mess that is. They found 
themselves in trouble, so they have gone and done another bill and 
submitted it to CBO, and hardly anybody on the floor knows exactly what 
the features are in that bill. No one knows actually what is in the 
bill. And despite the continuous claims of transparency our friends on 
the other side are always talking about, the real bill continues to 
change on a daily basis behind the closed doors of the majority 
leader's office.

I am really glad to know that it is not just the Republicans who are 
in the dark about what is actually in this bill. Democratic Members of 
Congress in this body are also in the same boat. It is really 
unbelievable. We are being asked to move forward on legislation that 
will reform one-sixth of the American economy and impact every American 
life and business without knowing what is actually in the bill. We have 
to rely on news reports. I have never seen anything like this in my 33 
years of Senate service.

One proposal that has come to the floor in recent days is the idea of 
expanding Medicare to include coverage for Americans 55 and over. 
Currently, we all know Medicare is for Americans 65 and over. It is a 
bankrupt program. It is well intentioned, it does a lot of good, but it 
is bankrupt. It is a program that can barely pay for the benefits of 
the 40 million seniors in it today. Medicare is on a path to fiscal 
meltdown, with Part A facing bankruptcy by 2017. I don't think anybody 
denies that. It underpays doctors by 20 percent and hospitals by 30 
percent compared to the private sector, forcing an increasing number of 
providers to simply stop seeing our Nation's seniors.

According to the June 2008 MedPAC report, 9 out of 10 Medicare 
beneficiaries have to get additional benefits beyond their Medicare 
coverage.

What is Washington's solution to address this problem and crisis? 
Take up to $500 billion out of this bankrupt program and at the same 
time push millions of Americans into it. Does that sound logical to 
you?

The CMS report states in clear terms that the Medicare cuts in this 
bill could jeopardize our seniors' access to care. The cuts would 
result in nearly 20 percent of all Part A providers, such as hospitals 
and nursing homes, operating in the red within the next 10 years as a 
result of these cuts. Twenty percent--that is a pretty big number.

It should come as no surprise that this proposal faces strong 
opposition from a wide variety of provider groups, from doctors and 
hospitals that are already under tremendous financial pressure due to 
underpayments from Medicare.

Keep in mind, the AMA here in Washington has backed this monstrosity. 
Now some people think that AMA represents all the doctors. It does 
not. The average doctor out there is incensed about this. Adding more 
lives to this insolvent Medicare Program will only further limit their 
ability to see all Medicare patients, not just the new ones.


Even more troubling is the impact of this expansion on the premiums 
of our Medicare seniors from this ill-conceived policy. This expansion 
would encourage an influx of sick Americans in private coverage into 
Medicare, which will simply raise premiums for seniors already enrolled 
in Medicare. So seniors, expect your cost of Medicare to go up.

So why are Democrats pushing this idea? Congressman Anthony Weiner 
said it best. I think he was very honest; very upfront. He said this:




 Extending this successful program to those between 55 and 


 64, a plan I proposed in July, would be the largest expansion 


 of Medicare in 44 years and would perhaps get us on the path 


 to a single-payer model.


Well, the Democratic endgame on health care reform is crystal clear: 
Make as many Americans as possible dependent on the Federal Government 
programs. Democrats believe by making millions of Americans dependent 
on big government programs, on the backs of their grandchildren's 
future, they are taking a huge leap toward creating a permanent 
majority for themselves. Why, it would be a natural constituency for 
them.

Well, let me tell you this--America is built on the spirit of self-
reliance, not government handouts. Poll after poll, especially the CNN 
poll, has said 61 percent of Americans are now opposed to the bill, and 
study after study is warning us this is the wrong solution for our 
Nation. This unknown bill, which continues to change by the day behind 
closed doors, is a direct violation of the President's own pledge to 
only support a reform that would reduce costs, protect benefits, and 
not raise taxes.

I sincerely hope the Democrats will step away from their arrogance of 
power and listen to the will of the American people. It is not too late 
for us to push the reset button and work on health care reform in a 
truly bipartisan manner. We are eager and willing, as we have been all 
year, to work on a responsible solution that every American can be 
proud of. There are all kinds of things we could agree on, that 
Republicans would work hand in glove with Democrats to solve, if they 
were willing to do it.

But keep in mind the HELP Committee bill was totally Democratic. Not 
one Republican was asked to help write it. The House bill, totally 
Democratic. Not one Republican was asked to help write it. I admit my 
friend, the Senator from Montana, Max Baucus, worked hard to try to get 
a bipartisan bill. But in the end, he did not have enough flexibility 
to reach a deal. All of a sudden, he finds his bill being put 
together--between the House bill and the HELP Committee bill--behind 
closed doors, with very few people involved--all Democrats and the 
White House and probably two or three or four or five from the Senate 
but no more than that.

Throughout this debate, I have heard a lot of rhetoric from the other 
side of the aisle how Republicans are opposed to this $2.5 trillion 
tax-and-spend bill because, as the Democrats incorrectly suggest, we 
want the status quo. Oh, give me a break. We all know this is 
completely false. We on this side of the aisle have asked the Democrats 
over and over again to step back and write a new bill with us. But they 
are so consumed with their arrogance of power that they simply want to 
push what they have always wanted; that is, more government and more 
government controls over all our lives. America is a


free nation, the greatest Nation in the history of mankind. What makes 
us great is not our reliance on the Federal Government but our 
individual resolve and strength. Americans want the Federal Government 
to help them, not support them.

Well, let me tell you the other side of this. In a recent Gallup 
Poll, Independents around this country opposed this bill 53 to 37. 
These are Independents. So it would be wise for my Democratic friends 
to realize America is not behind them; not behind this bill. It is time 
for them to listen to what the majority of Americans want and that is 
not this bill.

I cannot tell you the kind of opposition I have seen in my State to 
this bill. It is almost unprecedented. I read it in the letters, hear 
it in the calls. At airports and grocery store aisles and on the 
streets people stop me and say: Don't let that thing pass.

Absolute power corrupts, and that is what we are seeing in Washington 
today. Democrats control the White House, the House, they have a 
filibuster-proof Senate and they have used this absolute power to 
rubberstamp this administration's big-government agenda and have 
tripled our deficit within 1 year--1 year. We will run deficits of at 
least $1 trillion a year for the foreseeable future, while our national 
debt will triple. We are literally mortgaging the future of this 
country to foreign countries as we speak. Enough is enough. Let us step 
back and start over on a plan we can all be proud of and all work on.

We hear a lot about how the Republicans are simply standing for big 
and evil insurance companies and how the Democrats are the defenders of 
American families. Well, these days, nowhere is this Democratic 
hypocrisy more clear than the individual, mandated policy that is part 
of this tax-and-spend legislation.

Let's be very clear about who would benefit the most from this 
provision, which would, for the first time in our Nation's history, 
give the Federal Government the power to force Americans to either buy 
health insurance or face a tax penalty enforced by our friends at the 
Internal Revenue Service. There are only two clear winners under this 
policy, and it is not the American families. First, it is the Federal 
Government, that will now use this authority as a blank checkbook to 
increase the penalty in the future as a new revenue stream for its out-
of-control spending habits; and, second, are the insurance companies, 
that will now reap the benefits of having Americans being forced to buy 
coverage at the decree of the Federal Government.

Right now, States are responsible for determining policies that best 
meet their unique demographic needs and challenges. Massachusetts, for 
example, has decided to implement an individual mandate, while Utah has 
decided not to. Under this bill, we are explicitly taking away this 
State flexibility and authority to give the Federal Government the 
authority to make this one-size-fits-all decision for all 50 States and 
every American. This is an unprecedented grab of State power by 
Washington--a fundamental threat to the very Federalist vision our 
Founding Fathers used more than 200 years ago to create the greatest 
Nation in the history of the world, in the history of mankind.

I am gravely concerned about the precedent this policy will set for 
us as a nation going forward. If the Federal Government can force us to 
buy health insurance, what else can it force us to do? The 
possibilities are endless, just like my concerns, which I share with 
millions of Americans, on Washington's growing role in our private 
lives and personal decisions. Think about it. Washington has become an 
unwanted houseguest in our homes and lives who will not leave. If it 
does not start listening to the families, it will get kicked out, 
sooner rather than later. Think about it.

A couple of our friends have even said: Well, it is similar to car 
insurance. The States require you to buy insurance for your car, and it 
is in the best interest of the community that you do so. Well, the 
reason they do is because you want to drive. It is an activity you want 
to participate in, and so they get away with it. Here, if they have an 
individual mandate, they are forcing you to buy policies that are 
defined by Washington. If you don't, you are going to be penalized.

This has never happened before in our lives. If they can get away 
with this, I have to tell you, they can get away with anything. The 
liberties of all Americans are going to be affected by it. This is not 
an activity. This is not something we choose to do necessarily. If we 
choose to do it on our own, that is great. But to have the government 
come in and say you have to buy this policy--for the first time in 
history--you have to do this, even though you don't want to buy it, is 
unprecedented.

Well, let me say, I think it is fair to see I am not very enthused 
about the health care ideas of our colleagues. But I do wish to end on 
a positive note. There are some good things we can all do, some of 
which are in the bill. It is not totally bad. It is only about 90 
percent bad, but there is at least 10 percent we could build on; that 
we could work together on.


I am not just saying that. Look, I have been around here a long time. 
I can name all kinds of bills I have worked on with some of the most 
liberal people in the whole Congress to pass. Hatch-Waxman is a perfect 
illustration. That created the modern generic drug industry. Henry 
Waxman is as liberal as it gets but he was willing to face up to these 
realities with me, and we did Hatch-Waxman. I call it Waxman-Hatch when 
I am around him.

I might add the orphan drug bill. We found there were only maybe two 
or three orphan drugs being developed. These are drugs to benefit 
population groups of less than 200,000. Well, it is clear the drug 
companies can't afford to do it for 200,000 people because it costs 
upward of $1 billion. Biological drugs cost even more than that, and 
they are not truly drugs. But the fact is, they cost even more than 
that. We came up with some very small incentives--but they were 
incentives with prestige--and some tax breaks and all of a sudden it 
was about a $14 million or $15 million bill, as I recall, in the early 
1980s, when I was chairman of the Labor and Human Resources Committee. 
Today, we have well over 300 orphan drugs being developed, many of 
which have been developed, and from some of them blockbuster drugs have 
evolved.

Let's take the CHIP bill. That was the Hatch-Kennedy bill. Ted 
Kennedy, very liberal. He would have preferred to have the Federal 
Government do it all--just like our colleagues do today with this 
enormous number of 60 votes on their side--but he was willing to work 
with me. I went to him and said: Look, I had two families from Provo, 
UT, come to visit me--husbands and wives. In each family's case, both 
the husband and the wife work. Neither family's combined joint income 
is over $20,000 a year. At that time, it was too much to have their 
kids qualify for Medicaid and too little for them to be able to buy 
health insurance. I said: The only kids left out of the health care 
equation are children of the working poor. Teddy, we have to do 
something about that. He saw it, and he said yes.

He wasn't happy with the bill, in the end, because it was exactly 
what I told him it would be. It would basically be block-grants to 
states, where the States would handle it in accordance with their own 
demographics. It has worked amazingly well, until now. They are shoving 
more and more people into CHIP, other than the children of the working 
poor whom we originally decided to help.

Well, I could go on and on and on, on so many pieces of legislation, 
but I will just mention those few. I am very concerned because I 
actually believe that if we get what they are talking about on the 
other side, it will not only bankrupt the country, it will make more 
and more people dependent upon the Federal Government. Like I say, a 
natural constituency for the Democratic Party, but it is a matter of 
great concern to me.

Are our colleagues bad people? No. They simply believe the Federal 
Government can do it better. There are some things the Federal 
Government can do better, such as defending our national security 
interests, which is what the Constitution expects the Federal 
Government to do.

But even there, under this administration, we are not doing as well 
as we should. Although I commend the President for deciding to send the 
people to


Afghanistan and for standing on these issues. Once he saw the 
intelligence and the other information, it infused reality into his 
decision-making process. I give him credit. I am one who believes he 
deserves great credit for the decision he made. But even in that 
decision, he had to be very careful how he characterized when we are 
going to leave. He did leave it flexible. In that alone, he deserves a 
lot of credit because he knows there may not be enough time to do all 
we have to do to create the well-trained police and security forces 
that are necessary to keep Afghanistan free and to keep the world from 
allowing the Taliban and al-Qaida to obtain nuclear weapons.

Well, that is another subject for another day. I wish to end by 
saying I don't believe anybody on the other side is an evil person or a 
person who doesn't believe they are acting in the best interest of the 
country, but I do not see how--I do not see how they can continue to 
push what they are trying to push, I think to the detriment of this 
country.


I yield the floor.