---
---

# AMERICAN HOUSING RESCUE AND FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008
## `b6a204c4d9966d10a7fbb8fc3406e74b`
`Mr. HATCH — 25 June 2008`

---


Mr. HATCH. Madam President, Congress has been working on FISA 
modernization since April of 2007. That is over 425 days ago. It is 
simply amazing to me that it would take this long. As I have often 
said, the Constitution of the United States was written in about 115 
days, and that included travel time on horseback for the Founding 
Fathers. We have spent plenty of time on this issue.

So why is it taking so long? Should this issue be controversial? I 
can only surmise that the delay is due to the ominous sounding 
terrorist surveillance program. That is the program where the President 
had the audacity to allow the intelligence community to listen to 
international communications where at least one person was suspected to 
be a member of al-Qaida--the same al-Qaida who killed nearly 3,000 
innocent American civilians on September 11; the same al-Qaida who 
since that day has committed attacks in Istanbul, Algiers, Karachi, 
Islamabad, Casablanca, London, Madrid, Mombasa, the Gulf of Aden, 
Riyadh, Tunisia, Amman, and Bali; the same al-Qaida whose mission 
statement can be summed up in three words: ''Death to America.''

This is the group the President targeted. He wanted an early warning 
system to help prevent future attacks--a terrorist smoke detector, if 
you will. We often are reminded that we are fighting against an 
unconventional enemy, one that has asymmetrical advantages against us. 
Al-Qaida is not a nation state and adheres to no treaties or principles 
on the conduct of war. They wear no uniforms. They hide in peace-loving 
societies and deliberately conduct mass attacks against unarmed 
civilians. But we also have asymmetrical advantages.

As the most technologically sophisticated Nation in history, we have 
huge advantages that derive from this expertise. We are also--and I 
certainly see this as an asymmetrical advantage over the barbarism that 
is al-Qaida--a nation of laws. Finally, our surveillance laws are going 
to be modernized so we can continue to use our own technological 
superiority to help prevent future attacks against our public and the 
public of nations that have joined us in our fight to liquidate al-
Qaida.

This is what the President was always intent on doing. So he 
initiated the terrorist surveillance program, and the administration 
provided appropriate briefings to the chairs and ranking members of the 
Senate and House Intelligence Committees and to the leaders of both 
parties in both Chambers. When a new Member of Congress assumed one of 
those positions, they were given a similar briefing.

Last year, the Senate Intelligence Committee and numerous staff 
conducted a full review of the terrorist surveillance program and found 
no wrongdoing.

So why has it taken us so long to get here, and what is the concern 
that has caused the delay; that the President listened to the 
international communications of al-Qaida after 9/11? No President would 
ever engage in this type of activity, except of course President 
Woodrow Wilson, who authorized interceptions of communications between 
Europe and the United States, and President Franklin Roosevelt, who in 
1940 authorized interception of all communications into and out of the 
United States.

I guess the fourth amendment and the media's outrage were more 
flexible under Democratic Presidents. But let's leave these situations 
aside and continue to focus on the program one of my Democratic 
colleagues previously called ''one of the worst abuses of executive 
power in our history.''

With all due respect to my colleague, if listening to the 
international communications of al-Qaida is one of the biggest power 
grabs in the country's history, then our Nation has lived a charmed 
existence, worthy of envy throughout the world.

We should never forget the reasons for the creation of this program. 
It is no accident that America has not been attacked since September 
11. Is it more than luck? Did al-Qaida take a hiatus from terrorist 
attacks? Given al-Qaida's numerous foreign attacks during this same 
timeframe, I think the answer is clearly no. So something must be 
working. Perhaps the terrorist surveillance program has played a role.

But what about warrantless wiretapping? That phrase certainly means 
something illegal, right? Not really. As often as that phrase is 
repeated, what does it really mean? Does warrantless wiretapping 
automatically mean unconstitutional? That is certainly what we are led 
to believe by the hand-wringing blatteroons of the day. But this is 
simply not true.

The fourth amendment does not proscribe warrantless searches or 
surveillance. It proscribes unreasonable searches or surveillance. For 
example, let's look at a few of the numerous warrantless searches that 
are performed every day: Waiting for warrantless searches at the U.S. 
Border Inspection Station. Look at that mess.

Look at this: Waiting for warrantless searches at the U.S. Supreme 
Court. It is done every day that the court is in session, and even when 
it isn't sometimes. Waiting for warrantless searches at the National 
Archives. In other words, waiting to be searched before viewing the 
fourth amendment. This happens every day. I see that there are members 
of the public in the gallery above. Every last one of them went through 
a warrantless search just to get into this building.

So the question becomes whether a warrantless search or surveillance 
of international communications involving al-Qaida is reasonable or, to 
put it another way, whether signals intelligence against a declared 
enemy of the United States is reasonable. In my opinion, and I think in 
the opinion of the vast majority of our body, it certainly is.



Let's also look at what the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court 
of Review, the highest court that has considered this issue, has said:




 The Truong court, as did all the other courts to have 


 decided the issue, held that the President did have inherent 


 authority to conduct warrantless searches to obtain foreign 


 intelligence information. We take for granted that the 


 President does have that authority and, assuming that is so, 


 FISA could not encroach on the President's constitutional 


 power.


That is out of in re: Sealed, case 310 F3d, 717, the FISA Court of 
Review, 2002.

While the phrase ''warrantless wiretapping'' has been cited 
incessantly, there is another phrase mentioned nearly as often, and 
that is ''domestic spying.'' In order to better evaluate this phrase, 
let's look at what the President said in a December 17, 2005, radio 
address that described the TSP.




 In the weeks following the terrorist attacks on our Nation, 


 I authorized the National Security Agency, consistent with 


 U.S. law and the Constitution, to intercept the international 


 communications of people with known links to al-Qaida and 


 related terrorist organizations. Before we intercept these 


 communications, the government must have information that 


 establishes a clear link to these terrorist networks.


I don't see anything in that statement about domestic spying. I 
thought the definition of the word ''domestic'' was pretty clear. If 
the program intercepted communications in which at least one party was 
overseas, not to mention a member of al-Qaida, then it seems fairly 
obvious that those calls were--and I will emphasize this--not domestic.

Is this a domestic call? A foreign terrorist calling a terrorist 
within the United States? I hardly think so. Is this really such a hard 
concept? The last time I flew overseas, I didn't fly on a domestic 
flight. I flew on an international flight. My last phone bill showed 
there is a big difference between domestic calls and international 
calls.

Domestic spying may sound catchy and mysterious, but it is a 
completely inaccurate, even misleading, way to describe the TSP 
terrorist surveillance program--or FISA modernization. Why don't we 
describe them as international spying, which is what they really are? 
Isn't that a more accurate description? But I imagine international 
spying wouldn't raise the same level of fear and distrust in our 
Government that some on the left try to foster.

So while I regret the political machination that has turned this 
seemingly straightforward issue on its head, I am hopeful the time for 
debate is finally over. Yet some have suggested Congress should not 
pass a bill modernizing FISA. Even after such a prolonged period and 
extensive debate on the issue, they would prefer that we do nothing.

We are now hearing about efforts to strike or amend the immunity 
provisions in the compromise bill so that Members may express their 
views.

Is this really necessary? Did the multiple times the Senate has 
considered and rejected similar efforts mean nothing?

Look at this: The Senate has affirmed telecom civil liability 
protection in six separate votes. On October 18, 2007, the Senate 
Intelligence Committee rejects the amendment to strike the immunity 
provisions 12 to 3. That was bipartisan, by the way. On November 15, 
2007, the Senate Judiciary Committee rejects amendment to strike 
immunity provisions 12 to 7. Again, bipartisan. On 12/13/07, the Senate 
Judiciary Committee rejects stand-alone Government substitution bill 13 
to 5. On January 24, 2008, the full Senate tables the Judiciary's 
substitute, which does not include immunity, 60 to 36. On February 12, 
2008, the full Senate rejects the amendment to substitute the 
Government for telecoms 68 to 30. On February 12, 2008, the full Senate 
rejects amendment to strike immunity provisions 67 to 31.

The last time I saw that and looked at those numbers, those were all 
bipartisan votes. The civil liability provision in the Senate bill, 
which has been tweaked in this compromise, is supported by a bipartisan 
majority of the House and Senate, after all this hullabaloo.

In addition, let us not forget the opinions of the State attorneys 
general who previously wrote to Congress to express their support for 
civil liability protection.

Look at all the State attorneys general who endorse immunity. State 
attorney general of Wisconsin, the attorney general of Rhode Island, 
the attorney general of Oklahoma, the attorney general of Colorado, the 
attorney general of Florida, the attorney general of Alabama, the 
attorney general of Arkansas, the attorney general of Georgia, the 
attorney general of Kansas, the attorney general of my beloved home 
State of Utah, the attorney general of Texas, the attorney general of 
New Hampshire, the attorney general of Virginia, the attorney general 
of North Dakota, the attorney general of North Carolina, the attorney 
general of South Carolina, the attorney general of Pennsylvania, 
attorney general of South Dakota, attorney general of Nebraska, the 
attorney general of West Virginia, the attorney general of Washington.

These are all legal officers, by the way, attorneys general of those 
very States.

Another complaint that has been mentioned is that this bill does not 
have adequate oversight. We have heard allegations that:




 the government can still sweep up and keep the 


 international communications of innocent Americans in the 


 U.S. with no connection to suspected terrorists, with very 


 few safeguards to protect against abuse of this power.


We have heard other allegations that this bill does not provide 
adequate protections for innocent Americans. Make no mistake. The role 
of the Federal judiciary into the realm of foreign intelligence 
gathering is greatly expanded by this legislation.

So when we hear the incessant claims that this legislation lacks 
meaningful review, I want people to be absolutely crystal clear on the 
staggering amount of oversight in this bill.

The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court was created by the 1978 
FISA law for solely one purpose: This is Title 50 of the U.S. Code 
1803(a): ''a court which shall have jurisdiction to hear applications 
for and grant orders approving electronic surveillance.''

Let's think about this. It is America in 1978. The Church Committee 
has published information about known abuses by the Government 
involving surveillance against American citizens. The public wanted 
action. So what did the 95th Congress do?

Did it create a Court with the authority to review and approve the 
intelligence community's foreign targeting techniques? No.

Did it create a Court with the ability to review and approve the 
techniques used to minimize incidental interceptions involving 
Americans? No.

Did it mandate the intelligence community to get a warrant when 
targeting United States persons overseas? No.

But the 110th Congress will mandate each and every one of those 
things by passing this bill.

For the first time, the FISC will review and approve targeting 
procedures to ensure that authorized acquisitions are limited to 
persons outside of the United States.

For the first time, the FISC will review and approve minimization 
techniques.

For the first time, the FISC will ensure that the foreign 
targeting procedures are consistent with the fourth amendment.


So given the staggering amount of oversight, there must be some 
sweeping new surveillance authority that would necessitate these 
changes, right? Wrong.

The ''broad new surveillance authority'' that we hear so much about 
is directed at one thing: the Government can target foreign citizens 
overseas after the FISC reviews and approves the targeting and 
minimization procedures. In layman's terms: the Government can listen 
to foreign citizens overseas to collect foreign intelligence 
information. That doesn't sound like broad sweeping authority to me. In 
fact, it is less authority than the Government had before.

Let me enumerate some of the many restrictions on this authority:

No. 1, the Government can't intentionally target any person known to 
be in the U.S.

No. 2, the Government can't intentionally target a person outside the 
U.S. if the purpose is to target a known person in the U.S.--reverse 
targeting.



No. 3, the Government can't acquire domestic communications in the 
U.S.

No. 4, the targeting has to be consistent with the fourth amendment 
to the Constitution.

And there is more: the Attorney General and the Director of National 
Intelligence have to develop and adopt guidelines to ensure compliance 
with these limitations. These guidelines must be submitted to 
Congressional Intelligence and Judiciary Committees as well as the 
FISC.

The Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence shall 
assess compliance with the targeting and minimization procedures at 
least every 6 months. This assessment must be submitted to the FISC, 
and the Intelligence and Judiciary committees of both chambers of 
Congress.

The Inspectors General of the Department of Justice and each element 
of the intelligence community may review compliance with the targeting 
and minimization procedures.

Finally, this bill authorizes a horde of inspectors general to 
conduct a full review of certain communications surveillance 
activities--a review that the Senate Intelligence Committee has already 
conducted on a bipartisan basis and found nothing wrong. Vice Chairman 
Bond and the other negotiators agreed to narrow the scope of this 
review so that there would be minimal or no operational impact on our 
intelligence analysts. It should come as no surprise that we want 
intelligence analysts to focus on analysis, not spend limited time and 
resources digging up documents for redundant IG reviews.


So for those who criticize this bill as lacking oversight, I wonder 
if any level would be enough? I have no doubt that some would only be 
satisfied by specific individual warrants for each and every foreign 
terrorist overseas. This would complete the twisted logic that somehow 
giving complete constitutional protections to foreign terrorists leads 
to more protections for Americans. Do we really need to remind people 
that foreign citizens outside of our country, particularly members of 
terrorist organizations, enjoy no--none--no protections from our 
Constitution?

Make no mistake about the power the FISA Court will possess in 
foreign intelligence gathering following passage of this bill. If the 
Court finds any deficiency in the certification submitted by the 
Attorney General or Director of National Intelligence, then the FISC 
can direct the Government to cease or not initiate the foreign 
targeting. In other words--our collection would go dark. Fortunately, 
the Government will be able to rightly begin acquisitions pending an 
appeal to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review.

This is surely an intimidating environment for our intelligence 
analysts. Essentially, any accident or mistake will be highlighted to 
Congress. Unforgiving is not the word. I wonder how many private 
citizens would enjoy having policies at their jobs where any 
inadvertent error would result in notification to and review by 
Congress?

I will suggest that the amount of oversight in this bill should be 
revisited in the future; not to increase it, but rather to mandate more 
realistic and appropriate levels of review.

The multiple oversight initiatives in this legislation are not 
fulfilled by magic. It takes a tremendous amount of time and resources 
by the very analysts whose primary job is to track terrorists. As great 
as our analysts are, they can't be two places at once. There are only 
so many of them, and they don't have unlimited resources. It is worth 
noting what Director of National Intelligence McConnell said to 
Congress last September:




 Prior to the Protect America Act, we were devoting 


 substantial expert resources towards preparing applications 


 that needed FISA Court approval. This was an intolerable 


 situation, as substantive experts, particularly IC subject 


 matter and language experts, were diverted from the job of 


 analyzing collection results and finding new leads.


The leaders of our intelligence community have to make wise choices 
when allocating the time and expertise of analysts, and their hands 
should not be unnecessarily tied by Congress. Analytic expertise on 
target is a finite resource; a finite resource which the public must 
understand is rendered against an enemy whose resources and 
capabilities remain obscured to us, while its intent remains deadly.

But I guess I shouldn't be surprised by the inclusion of these 
onerous oversight provisions, which no previous Congress felt the need 
to add. How many times have we heard claims that the Protect America 
Act would permit the Government to spy on innocent American families 
overseas on their vacations? Or innocent American soldiers overseas 
serving our country? Or innocent students who are simply studying 
abroad?

Painting this type of picture only feeds the delusions of those who 
wear tin foil hats around their house and think that 9/11 was an inside 
job.

Do we think so little of the fine men and women of our intelligence 
community that we assume they would rather target college kids in 
Europe than foreign terrorists bent on nihilistic violence?

The absurdity of these accusations cannot be understated and we 
should not tolerate them. We should never forget that our intelligence 
analysts are not political appointees. They serve regardless of which 
President is in office, or which political party is represented. They 
take an oath to defend the Constitution. And rather than respect and 
trust their judgment and integrity, we layer oversight mechanisms that 
treat them like 16-year-olds who just got their first job and have to 
be birdwatched for fear they are stealing money from the cash register.


Now I agree there are some instances in which we may want to target 
individuals studying abroad. I am not necessarily talking about 
institutions of higher learning like the Sorbonne, but rather terrorist 
training camps spread through some hostile regions of foreign 
countries. These are the type of schools that our intelligence 
community is interested in. When it comes to these students, I want to 
know what they are up to.

Here is a good illustration: Supposed ''Graduation'' of Taliban 
Members on June 9, 2007. I want to know what they are about.

After addressing some of the critiques of this bill by others, let me 
offer one of my own. This bill calls for prior court review and 
approval of certifications presented to the FISC before foreign 
intelligence collection can begin. As I have consistently stated 
throughout these FISA modernization discussions, I believe this 
principle is unjustified and unwise.

The idea that the executive branch of the Government needs the 
explicit approval of the judiciary branch before collecting foreign 
intelligence information from foreign citizens in foreign countries is 
simply wrongheaded and is contrary to our Constitutional principles. I 
don't care if the President represents the Democratic party, Republican 
party, Green party, Independent party, or Whig party; he shouldn't need 
permission to track foreign terrorists.

With that said, I am encouraged that the bill includes a provision 
which would allow collection before court review of procedures if 
''exigent circumstances'' exist. Even with this provision, I am 
troubled that one of my Democratic colleagues in the House made the 
following statement last week about this provision:




 This is intended to be used rarely, if at all, and was 


 included upon assurances from the administration that agrees 


 that it shall not be used routinely.


This begs the question, is tracking terrorists not an ''exigent 
circumstance''? I urge the executive branch to utilize this provision 
appropriately and as often as necessary following the informed judgment 
of those with the appropriate acumen to make such decisions. The phrase 
''intelligence * * * may be lost'' means what it says: if the executive 
branch determines that we may lose intelligence while waiting for the 
Court to issue an order, then the Intelligence Community should do what 
our Nation expects: it should act and act quickly. The executive branch 
should not hesitate to utilize this authority because of fear of 
reprisal from those who may seek to advance political agendas--which we 
have seen plenty of, and some on this floor today.


Finally, I want to highlight the extensive efforts of the negotiators 
of this bill in both chambers. I especially want to express my 
appreciation and gratitude to my friend and colleague Kit Bond, the 
dedicated vice chairman of the Intelligence Committee, who adeptly 
navigated and managed the


tense and tedious negotiations to bring about the opportunity for 
passage of this historic legislation, the most extensive rewrite of 
foreign intelligence surveillance laws in 30 years.

As you can tell from the tone of my remarks, I am less than pleased 
at some of the compromises made in these negotiations. I don't like the 
expansion of the judiciary branch into what I believe are activities 
rightly under the executive's prerogative. But I came to the Senate to 
achieve improvements for the American people, not to be an ideologue. 
My entire career as a legislator has been in recognition that 
compromise gets more done for the public than obstruction. The people 
of Utah didn't send me to the Senate to obstruct business, but to get 
business done. Nowhere is this more important than on matters where the 
Congress is enjoined by our citizens to improve the national security. 
I am a pragmatist, and I am a realist. Part of being a realist, these 
days, is to recognize that there is a disturbing backlash against the 
national security policies of this administration. Fueled by 
dissatisfaction over mistakes in Iraq, over frustration that the fight 
there and in Afghanistan continues into its seventh year, and that Al 
Qaeda remains a credible and deadly threat, many people in the majority 
party have gone beyond criticism to denunciation, to condemnation and 
obstruction. I am hoping that the general election before us will 
provide the opportunity for a truly grand debate on what we consider 
are threats, and how we believe we must continue to address them. But 
so far the debate has not been joined, and the rhetoric is becoming 
more poisonous. I have come to this floor and expressed my own 
criticisms of this administration, but I have never had reason to 
condemn them as operating in bad faith when it came to defending this 
Nation.

I know this President. The President is a wonderfully good man. He 
has done everything in his power to try to protect us. He is an honest 
man. He has had untoward criticism from the media day in and day out. 
He has been deliberately maligned by people who should know better.

Yes, this administration has made mistakes, but they have not been 
made intentionally. It is pathetic the way the media and many have 
treated this President. I think we have got to go back to where we 
respect our President and we show some degree of tolerance for the 
tough job that being President is.

It is regrettable for me that the rhetoric around the terrorism 
surveillance program has devolved too often into fire but no light. So 
while I am concerned about some of the compromises made in this bill, I 
am grateful for all of the work done to bring it to a vote this week. 
We have to have this bill to protect the American people.

I urge my colleagues to support this monumental and historic 
legislation. Our country continues to be both the envy of the world and 
the target of those who seek to advance their warped, violent ideology. 
We know the threats are out there. We do not have to live our lives in 
fear, but we should acknowledge that the world changed on September 11 
and we must remain vigilant.

Let's ensure that all of the dedicated and noble professionals who 
play a part in ensuring our liberty and safety are not hampered by 
partisan problems that we have the ability and responsibility to 
correct.

The legislation before us makes an important and admirable attempt to 
do just that. I hope my colleagues will support this legislation and 
support final passage. It is overdue. It has been delayed too long. We 
have been playing around with this far too long. There have been so 
many unjust criticisms, I am sick of them, to be honest with you. It is 
almost as though politics has to rear its ugly head every time we turn 
around here. A lot of it is driven by the fact that people resent the 
President of the United States. They do so unjustly, without proper 
sense, in ways that are detrimental to our country and future 
presidencies that will come into office. This President has had very 
difficult problems to handle.

I believe I am the longest serving person on the Senate Select 
Committee on Intelligence. I have been around a long time. I have seen 
a lot of things. I have tried to help prior Presidents as I have played 
a role on the Intelligence Committee. I have done so, I believe, 
without resorting to partisan attacks. We have had too many partisan 
attacks around here, and I think too many vicious attacks against the 
President and, I might add, against these unnamed, highly classified 
unknown, except by those in the intelligence community, telecom 
companies that patriotically helped our country to protect us, that 
have gone through untold expense, the deprivation and harm caused by 
the zealousness of those who believe that only they can protect the 
civil liberties of this country, when, in fact, that is what the 
telecom companies were cooperating to do.

I thank all of the Intelligence Committee staffers who have played 
such a big role in helping this bill to come to the floor. We have a 
very dedicated staff on the Intelligence Committee. I have to say that 
in this current Intelligence Committee I have seen more partisanship 
than I have seen in the past. But, by and large, when we passed the 
original bill out of the committee, it was passed 13 to 2, and we 
worked together in a very good way on that committee.

So I thank those staffers who worked so hard to try and help us all 
resolve this set of difficulties. I hope everybody in the Senate will 
vote for this bill and send it out with resounding victory.

I yield the floor.