---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `b6a3fde317d3c3d8eebcfc52769d5b6b`
`Mrs. CLINTON â€” 26 April 2007`

---


Mrs. CLINTON. Madam President, with this vote, Congress has provided 
funding for our troops while also putting forward sensible provisions 
to begin the withdrawal of troops from Iraq. I call upon the President 
to work with Congress in order to ensure the troops receive these funds 
and that we change course in Iraq.

I am also pleased to announce with Senator Schumer that after a long 
struggle, and thanks to the leadership of Senator Byrd and Senator 
Harkin, we have secured $50 million for the monitoring, diagnosis, and 
treatment for the thousands of men and women whose health has been 
terribly affected by the dust, debris, and poisons that filled the air 
after the attacks of 9/11.

I am grateful for the support of Senator Byrd, Senator Harkin and 
Senator Specter who have been steadfast in recognizing our duty to help 
those who helped New York in our hour of need--and help everyone whose 
health and lives have been affected by 9/11.

This is a great victory for the victims and heroes, for New York, and 
for our values which were targeted on 9/11.

The Centers of Excellence providing care through the Mt. Sinai 
consortium and the Fire Department of New York with Federal funds are 
doing heroic work--but more and more people are walking through the 
doors because of respiratory problems and other debilitating 
conditions. These treatment centers--centers that provide essential 
care to those who responded in our time of need--are on the brink of 
running out of Federal resources in the fall. Thanks to the funding in 
this bill, we will be able to send a lifeline of funding before these 
treatment centers fall over the financial cliff.

Based upon the estimates of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, it would take nearly $283 million to treat to 34,000 first 
responders and workers for just one year. And that number doesn't take 
into account the treatment needs of forgotten populations, such as 
residents, office workers, students, and others who were also exposed 
to these toxic substances.

The funding contained in this legislation is a great step forward and 
will serve as a bridge fund until we are able to come up with a long 
term solution. This $50 million will be used to help provide both 
inpatient and outpatient treatment services for responders and workers 
affected by debilitating respiratory and mental health problems.

These are more than names on a list or lines in a budget. These are 
lives that have been turned upside down, often silently, often without 
public notice.

When the towers collapsed, thousands of tons of coarse and fine 
particulate matter were released into the air, and inhaled into the 
lungs of hundreds of thousands of individuals--substances that included 
cement dust, glass fibers, asbestos, lead, hydrochloric acid, and other 
toxic pollutants. The combustion of jet fuel after the attacks created 
a dense plume of black smoke, filled with other toxic substances like 
benzene and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Fires at Ground Zero 
continued to burn underground for several months after the attacks.

Of course, none of our incredibly brave firefighters, police 
officers, emergency responders, workers, volunteers and others stopped 
to think about the health implications of what they were walking into--
they risked their lives to help save others.

The day after 9/11, I visited Ground Zero; it was evident that the 
air was not fit to breathe and these conditions continued for months 
afterwards.

Over the next 9 months, it is estimated that hundreds of thousands of 
individuals were exposed to the dust and debris not only at Ground 
Zero, but also a site at Fresh Kills, the landfill in Staten Island, 
where workers sifted through the debris in an attempt to recover 
evidence from the attacks.

People began coming down with what we would later call World Trade 
Center cough. We heard reports of previously healthy detectives who 
could bench press 250 pounds unable to lift a child. Firefighters who 
could run miles no longer able to climb stairs. Construction workers in 
perfect physical shape before the attacks with incredible difficulty 
breathing after the attacks. Increased risk of cancer. Newly developed 
asthma, bronchitis, persistent sinusitis, laryngitis, or other 
respiratory problems. For these individuals, their illnesses are a 
constant reminder of that terrible day.

On March 21, the HELP Committee held a hearing--which I led along 
side Chairman Kennedy--on the long term impacts of 9/11.

What we heard that day was nothing short of devastating and all of us 
in the room during the hearing came away with a new sense of urgency in 
making sure that the workers, residents, students, volunteers and 
others who are experiencing adverse health effects due to exposure of 
9/11 toxins get the care they desperately need.

Of particular concern: many of those who are ill are falling through 
the cracks of traditional health coverage. According to testimony 
presented at this hearing, more than 40 percent of the responders 
enrolled in the Mt. Sinai treatment program are uninsured, and an 
additional 23 percent are underinsured. New York City reports that 
approximately 60 percent of those enrolled at Bellevue Hospital's 
treatment program are also uninsured.

Today, Congress has sent a powerful message to the police officers, 
firefighters, first responders, workers, and volunteers of 9/11: You 
are not forgotten. We will respond to an attack on our values and way 
of life by honoring our values and helping the victims.

But we must go further.

We need a longer-term Federal solution to provide monitoring, 
diagnosis, and treatment. The city and local organizations have done a 
tremendous service, but this was as an attack on our whole Nation and 
our whole Nation should support the efforts taking place in New York. 
These funds will only support the work for the short term. And a third 
treatment center at Bellevue Hospital--the only center that evaluates 
and treats many of the forgotten victims: residents, office workers, 
students, and others--has not received any Federal help at all.

I have introduced the 9/11 Heroes Health Improvement Act to provide 
$1.9 billion in grants for ongoing medical and mental health treatment 
and monitoring, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on the 
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee to ensure that we have 
a long-term solution for 9/11 affected individuals.

We should always keep in our hearts the people who deserve our help.

Retired New York Police Detective Michael Valentin is one of those 
who is living with the health effects of 9/11. He rushed to Ground Zero 
from his home on Long Island on 9/11 and for the first few days 
searched for remains in the area, later working on the pile and 
providing perimeter security.

Before 9/11, he was running miles a day and going to college at night 
to become a supervisor.

Since 9/11, he has experienced respiratory problems and breathing 
difficulties, asthma attacks, operations to treat tumors he has 
developed, and other conditions. He could no longer find the strength 
to attend college at night or run enough to pass even the police 
department's physical test. He retired officially on January 31 of this 
year.

Detective Valentin wanted to attend the hearing in Washington. He 
wanted to speak out and be heard because too many of the victims and 
heroes feel forgotten and left behind. Unfortunately, Detective 
Valentin was too sick to make the trip, and he is not alone.

The tragedy of 9/11 is not over. The loss of life, the pain, and the 
suffering are not over. The tragic legacy continues for the families 
who lost loved ones and for residents, workers, volunteers, first 
responders and others who


have faced hardship and health consequences in the aftermath of the 
attacks.

Today, we have achieved a great victory--but it must only be a first 
step to make sure those that gave so much on that terrible day are not 
forgotten and receive the help they deserve.