---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b6b930fdc9a26cbbc3b0a29958fa77be`
`Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. You know, as he said, I flew 62 combat 
missions in the Korean War and 25 in Vietnam before being shot down. I 
had the privilege of serving in the United States Air Force for 29 
years, attending the prestigious National War College, commanding two 
air bases, among other things.

I mention these stories because I view the debate on the floor not 
just as a U.S. Congressman elected to serve the good people of the 
Third District in Texas, but also through the lens of a lifelong 
fighter pilot, student of war, a combat warrior, a leader of men, and a 
prisoner of war.

Ironically, this week marks the anniversary that I started a new life 
and my freedom from prison in Hanoi. I spent early 7 years as that 
prisoner of war, more than half of that time in solitary confinement. I 
flew out of Hanoi on February 12, 1973, with other long-held prisoners 
of war, weighing just 140 pounds. And tomorrow, 34 years ago, I had my 
homecoming to Texas, a truly unspeakable blessing of freedom.

While in solitary confinement, my captures kept me in leg stocks, 
like the pilgrims, for 72 days. As you can imagine, they had to carry 
me out of the stocks because I couldn't walk.

The following day they put me in leg irons for 2/1/2/ years. That is 
when you have a tight metal cuff around each ankle with a foot-long bar 
connecting the legs. I still have very little feeling in my right arm 
and right hand, and my body has never been the same since my nearly 
2,500 days of captivity. But I will never let my physical woes hold me 
back. Instead, I try to see the silver lining.

I say that because, in some ways, I am living a dream, a hope that I 
had for the future. From April 16, 1966, to February 12, 1973, I prayed 
that I would return home to the loving embrace of my wife, Shirley, and 
my three kids, Bob, Jenny, and Beverly. My fellow POWs and I clung to 
the hope of when, not if, we returned home. We would spend hours 
tapping on the adjoining cement walls about what we would do when we 
got home to America. We pledged to quit griping about the way the 
government was running the war in Vietnam and do something about it. We 
decided we would run for office and try to make America a better place 
for all of us.

So, little did I know back in my rat-infested 3-by-8 dark, filthy 
cell that, 34 years after my departure from hell on earth, I would 
spend the anniversary of my release pleading for a House panel to back 
my measure to support and fully fund our troops in harm's way; and, 
that just days later I would be on the floor of the U.S. House of 
Representatives, surrounded by distinguished veterans, urging Congress 
to support our troops to the hilt.

We POWs were still in Vietnam when Washington cut the funding for 
Vietnam. I know what it does to morale and mission success. Words 
cannot fully describe the horrendous damage of the anti-American 
efforts against the war back home to the guys on the ground. Our 
captors would blare nasty recordings over the loudspeaker of Americans 
protesting back home, tales of Americans spitting on Vietnam veterans 
when they came home, and worse. I don't think we should ever, ever let 
that happen again. The pain inflicted by your country's indifference is 
tenfold that inflicted by your ruthless captors.

Our troops and their families want, need, and deserve the full 
support of this country and the Congress. Moms and dads watching the 
news need to know that the Congress will not leave their sons and 
daughters in harm's way without support.

Since the President announced his new plan for Iraq last month, there 
has been steady progress. He changed the rules of engagement, removed 
political protection. There are reports we wounded the number two of al 
Qaeda and killed his deputy. And, yes, al Qaeda operates in Iraq. It is 
alleged that top radical jihadist, al-Sadr, has fled Iraq maybe to 
Iran, and Iraq has closed its borders with Iran and Syria.

The President has changed course, has offered a new plan. We are 
making progress. We must seize the opportunity to move forward, not 
stifle future success. Debating nonbinding resolutions aimed at earning 
political points only destroys morale, stymies success, and emboldens 
the enemy.

The grim reality is that this House measure is the first step to 
cutting funding of the troops. Just ask John Murtha about his slow-
bleed plan that hamstrings our troops in harm's way.

Now it is time to stand up for my friends who did not make it home 
and those who fought and died in Iraq already, so I can keep my promise 
that when we got home we would quit griping about the war and do 
something positive about it.

We must not allow this Congress to leave these troops like the 
Congress left us. Today, let my body serve as a brutal reminder that we 
must not repeat the mistakes of the past. Instead, learn from them. We 
must not cut funding for our troops. We must stick by them. We must 
support them all the way. And, to our troops, we must remain always 
faithful. God bless you all. I salute you and this Congress.