---
---

# None
## `b6bf9d84e274720c8280f2636c841fce`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. What is so very important for everyone to 
understand here, that this is above and beyond politics right now. For 
the President to say, the President is making a political statement, he 
is making a political statement because he once said, as long as I am 
President, we are not going to pull back any troops from Iraq. Just 
because he made that statement doesn't necessarily mean that should be 
the case.

We live in democracy, last I checked. No one stopped me walking down 
the street. No one kicked in my door, because I have rights. I think 
it's important that the President understands that we live in a 
democracy. So, really, in my opinion, it's hard to talk directly to the 
President about something when he has made a statement, and he has 
said, I am going to stick by it.

This is not stick by your guns, you know, stick by whatever, however 
the song goes. It's not appropriate to use when you talk about the man, 
but it's stick by whatever statement you made. I think it's important 
that people understand that we are going to the table of compromise, 
which the President said we were going to compromise, he didn't sound 
like someone who really wanted to compromise in this statement at 6:10 
today.


He sounded like a person saying I am going to veto this, and they can 
come to the hill and the bottom line is the Congress is trying to do 
this, this and this. That is not looking at compromise, that is looking 
at keeping some sort of word that he has made. If you want to talk 
about word, I think it's important.

The good thing I like about the 30-Something working group members is 
the fact that the Congressional Record and past statements are so very, 
very important to today's reality.

The President said, in his comments, that he didn't believe the time 
lines, and he spoke out very forcefully against them. Yet in 1990, on 
June 5, then Governor Bush said about President Clinton, I think it's 
important for the President to lay out a timetable as to how long they 
will be involved and when they will be withdrawn, talking about another 
conflict.

It's good enough for President Clinton. It's not good enough for him. 
It's one thing for you, it's an old saying, it's one thing for you to 
ask somebody, you tell someone to do something when you are not willing 
to do it. I think it's important, after all of this death, after all of 
the conflict that is going on in Iraq, in the middle of the winter, in 
the


middle of the civil war, the American people are crying out. If it was 
political, and men and women weren't losing their lives, and Walter 
Reed didn't get a plane load of injured soldiers and Marines and airmen 
and the Coast Guard and sailors, then I would say, well, let's play the 
political role.

As far as I am concerned, when I talked to my friends on the 
Republican side of the aisle, I share with them, because I think there 
is some good Members that are there that want to speak their mind. When 
they see me in the hall or see in the cafeteria, they say, Kendrick, 
you know, you were on the floor the other day, you made a lot of sense.

I say, why don't you vote differently. Why don't you vote in the 
emergency supplemental to send the troops the money? Because the more 
bipartisan votes we have, the harder it will be for the President to do 
what they are doing.

Listen, to the Republican minority, you guys are on your way to a 
permanent minority in the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate 
following the President on this issue of don't ask any questions, just 
give me a blank check. The American people, unelected a number of 
Republican Members of the House and Senate last Congress. Why? Because 
they were rubber stamping everything that the President of the United 
States wanted.

You have witnessed this. We have seen the difference. Now we have the 
opportunity to lead in a bipartisan way. We send a bill to the 
President, he says he is going to veto it because he doesn't like it, 
and he misrepresents what the bill does. I think it's important, as we 
go through this whole discourse of how we are going to carry out for 
the next, how we are going to carry out the mission in getting the men 
and women what they need, I think it's important that we have a little 
truth that rises up out of all of this misinformation.