---
---

# MAJORITY MAKERS
## `b6dd0639cb5e7f50adf3b163a30f7609`
`Ms. SUTTON — 19 September 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. Mr. Speaker, I would like to begin this hour by talking 
about a subject that has become one of the most significant issues of 
our time. I am going to be joined by members of the freshman class or 
the Majority Makers throughout this hour to talk about Iraq.

We have heard in recent days about what the President's idea of our 
way forward is. He has called for more money and more patience and a 
renewed commitment to U.S. troops in Iraq for the foreseeable future, 
another stay-the-course strategy that puts us on a path toward a $1 
trillion, at least 10-year presence war in Iraq. On top of that, we 
have no convincing evidence that the political reconciliation necessary 
will be achieved even after so much sacrifice on the part of our brave 
troops will be realized.

I believe that the President's plan for Iraq amounts to an open-ended 
and dangerous commitment of American troops in Iraq and an open wallet 
from the American people to pay for it.

The question should not be whether we keep our troops in Iraq for 10 
years. The question should be: How do we responsibly redeploy our 
troops? And how do we develop that plan that will do so while we 
continue to protect our homeland and fight against terrorists?

On August 19, we saw in the New York Times an editorial that was 
written by seven brave U.S. soldiers. I bring this to the attention, 
Mr. Speaker, of you and all those who may be tuned in because I think 
it is important that we listen to their vantage point. And while I 
won't be reading the entire article, I will read excerpts from it. 
Again, it is August 19, the New York Times, and I would suggest that 
everybody who can take a look at the complete editorial. It is 
entitled, ''The War As We Saw It.'' And it begins:

''Viewed from Iraq at the tail end of a 15-month deployment, the 
political debate in Washington is indeed surreal. Counterinsurgency is, 
by definition, a competition between insurgents and counterinsurgents 
for the control and support of a population.



To believe that Americans, with an occupying force that long ago 
outlived its reluctant welcome, can win over a recalcitrant local 
population and win this counterinsurgency is farfetched. As responsible 
infantrymen and noncommissioned officers with the 82nd Airborne 
Division soon heading back home, we are skeptical of recent press 
coverage portraying the conflict as increasingly manageable and feel it 
has neglected the mounting civil, political and social unrest we see 
every day.''

And then they say, in parentheses, ''Obviously these are our personal 
views and should not be seen as official within our chain of command.''

They continue:

''The claim that we are increasingly in control of the battlefields 
in Iraq is an assessment arrived at through a flawed, American-centered 
framework. Yes, we are militarily superior, but our successes are 
offset by some failures elsewhere. What soldiers call the 'battle 
space' remains the same, with changes only at the margins. It is 
crowded with actors who do not fit neatly into boxes: Sunni extremists, 
al Qaeda terrorists, Shiite militiamen, criminals and armed tribes. 
This situation is made more complex by the questionable loyalties and 
Janus-faced role of the Iraqi police and Iraqi army, which have been 
trained and armed at United States taxpayers' expense.''

And then they continue:

''Reports that a majority of Iraqi army commanders are now reliable 
partners can be considered only misleading rhetoric. The truth is that 
battalion commanders, even if well meaning, have little or no influence 
over the thousands of obstinate men under them in an incoherent chain 
of command who are really loyal only to their militias.''

They continue in this article, and they state, ''Political 
reconciliation in Iraq will occur, but not at our insistence or in ways 
that meet our benchmarks. It will happen on Iraqi terms when the 
reality on the battlefield is congruent with that in the political 
sphere. There will be no magnanimous solutions that please every party 
the way we expect, and there will be winners and losers. The choice 
that we have left is to decide which side we will take. Trying to 
please every party to this conflict, as we do now, will only ensure we 
are hated by all in the long run.''

These brave soldiers conclude this op-ed with the following:

''It would be prudent for us to increasingly let Iraqis take center 
stage in all matters, to come up with a nuanced policy in which we 
assist them from the margins but let them resolve their differences as 
they see fit. This suggestion is not meant to be defeatist, but rather 
to highlight our pursuit of incompatible policies to absurd ends 
without recognizing the incongruities.''

They say, ''We need not talk about our morale. As committed soldiers, 
we will see this mission through.''

I share that because I think it's worth having out there for our 
consideration and our contemplation to add to the wealth of information 
that is being presented to the American people.

I'm sad to report that since this op-ed began, they started writing 
this, during the course of writing it, one of these brave soldiers was 
shot in the head, and he is recovering. But on September 13, the 
headline in the same New York Times sadly stated, ''Skeptical But Loyal 
Soldiers Die in a Truck Crash in Iraq.'' And two of these soldiers who 
had the courage not only to go and fight for our Nation but to do 
everything they were asked to do were killed in Iraq.

We are here today to talk about this pressing, pressing issue. The 
light that


has been shed on this by these soldiers should be part of the 
discussion. I am joined here on the floor right now by a couple of my 
colleagues, leaders on this issue, I know, who feel it deeply. The 
gentleman from Florida, Ron Klein, a tremendous new Member, at this 
point I am going to just yield to him for his remarks.