---
---

# AMERICA'S GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT CAPACITY ACT
## `b6e1540c802d7fd3539d5a0062884d7e`
`Mr. DURBIN — 7 May 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Earlier this year, President Obama announced a new policy 
for Afghanistan and Pakistan beginning to really focus important 
resources and attention on those countries--resources that were, 
tragically, diverted during the war in Iraq.

I was honored today to be invited for a lunch with President Zardari 
of Pakistan and President Karzai of Afghanistan. They are now working 
together--and that was not always the case--to stop the spread of the 
Taliban and al-Qaida. They are starting to do things which I think 
should have been done a long time ago. For example, I was surprised to 
learn when I visited Afghanistan a little over a year ago that we had 
fewer than 10 agricultural experts in that country. We know that 
country, which was once a prolific exporter of agricultural products, 
has now descended to a point where the major export is poppy and 
heroin, which, of course, fuels the underground economy and fuels the 
Taliban in their efforts to bring terrorism to Afghanistan and 
Pakistan. Well, to learn that we have fewer than 10 agricultural 
experts working on the ground in Afghanistan to try to change this was 
disappointing. This administration, the new Obama administration, has 
made a commitment to raise that number to over 50 in a hurry, as they 
should, so that we will be able to counsel those in agriculture in 
Afghanistan about lucrative, profitable crops that will not be feeding 
terrorism. That is one of the things that needs to be done, not just 
the military side but the economic side as well.

We understand--and Secretary Clinton has said such--that if we are 
going to be successful in Afghanistan and Pakistan, we have to bring 
this effort down to ground level, not just to suppress the violence but 
to make certain we build a civil economy and a civil government that 
can sustain democratic and free growth in those two countries. I was 
glad to be part of that effort today. I believe there is a lot more to 
do. I join with Senators Kit Bond of Missouri, Patty Murray of 
Washington, and Chris Dodd of Connecticut, as well as Sheldon 
Whitehouse of Rhode Island, in introducing a bill that is called the 
Increasing America's Global Development Capacity Act, to improve our 
Nation's capacity to undertake global development activities.

The bill would triple the number of USAID Foreign Service officers by 
2012. If we implement this legislation, in 3 years USAID will have 
3,000 talented, committed Americans serving in the world's most 
difficult locations, helping to improve the lives of others, and 
showing the world what America is all about. I would much rather beef 
up the USAID than run the risk of sending more American soldiers to 
face the dangers of war in those foreign countries. I think we can help 
win over the hearts and minds of people around the world if we have the 
right American ambassador in a civilian capacity using diplomacy and 
development as major tools.

The President's strategy wisely emphasizes training the Afghan army 
and building up the police; a renewed effort to deal with the Taliban's 
safe havens in Pakistan; and a long overdue civilian surge in State 
Department and U.S. Agency for International Development personnel, 
with particular emphases on diplomacy, agriculture, good governance, 
and job creation.

It is unfortunate that more than 7 years after the war in Afghanistan 
began we are only now providing sufficient civilian resources and 
experts to help win the peace in Afghanistan.

The Bush administration neglected to focus on post-war needs in both 
Iraq and Afghanistan. Once our brave military men and women 
accomplished their early military goals, few if any plans existed for 
significant investments in strengthening critical economic, governance, 
and rule of law institutions.

The results have been sadly obvious. Our military has had to stay 
longer than anticipated while we play catch up on these basic building 
blocks that are needed for any true long-term stability.

This failure to invest in and deploy our civilian experts has placed 
an unfair burden on our military and their families.

Our military leaders have recognized the critical nature of the 
civilian development and diplomatic component of American engagement 
abroad.

Secretary of Defense Gates has said it clearly:




 What is clear to me is that there is a need for a dramatic 


 increase in spending on the civilian instruments of national 


 security--diplomacy, strategic communications, foreign 


 assistance, civic action, and economic reconstruction and 


 development.


He continued;




 One of the most important lessons of the wars in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan is that military success is not sufficient to 


 win: economic development, institution-building and the rule 


 of law, promoting internal reconciliation, good governance, 


 providing basic services to the people, training and 


 equipping indigenous military and police forces, strategic 


 communications, and more--these, along with security, are 


 essential ingredients for long-term success.


Secretary Clinton has similarly said:




 In order for us to pursue an ambitious foreign policy to 


 both solve and manage problems, to address our interests and 


 advance our values, we have to reform both State and USAID. 


 And to do so, we have to create a Department and an agency 


 that are funded the right way, where the people doing this 


 work have the tools and authorities that they need. This is 


 particularly important in dangerous regions like Iraq and 


 Afghanistan.


Our Nation's ability to help others improve their lives is a critical 
component of American foreign policy. Development initiatives help stem 
HIV/AIDS and other global pandemics; provide food, clean water, and 
sanitation to the world's poor; strengthen democratic processes and 
institutions; and foster economic growth.

These efforts demonstrate our leadership and concern, foster goodwill 
and an appreciation of American values, and provide alternatives to the 
despair that can lead others to turn against us.

That is why a recent story in the New York Times about Afghanistan is 
so tragic. The article's title ''G.I.'s


Filling Civilian Gap to Rebuild Afghanistan'' says it all.

We now have a President who has formed a sound policy for 
Afghanistan, but we simply do not have the civilian international 
development experts necessary to fill the civilian needs in 
Afghanistan.

This is tragic.

Think about after the attacks of September 11 how many Americans 
wanted to serve their country, whether in the military, in Americorps 
programs, or in the Foreign Service.

We should have taken advantage of that groundswell of American 
idealism and determination to bring some of our brightest minds into 
the State Department and U.S. Agency for International Development 
where they could use their talents and desire for public service to 
make a difference in the lives of others around the world and to help 
bring stability to faraway places.

The need is stark. Take USAID alone. In the 1960s when President 
Kennedy launched the agency, it had more than 5,000 Foreign Service 
officers. Today, with obvious needs around the world from Afghanistan 
to Iraq to Congo, it has just over 1,000.

Its budget in real dollars has shrunk by almost one quarter.

That is right. At a time when people on both sides of the aisle, as 
well as in the military and civilian leadership of our government, 
agree on the great need for such civilian engagement, our lead 
international development agency has seen its key staff cut by 80 
percent and its funding by more than 25 percent.

We have this all backwards.

This increase in development professionals would be a first step 
towards rebalancing the three pillars of our foreign policy and 
national security--development, defense, and diplomacy, and would go a 
long way in helping face some of our country's biggest global 
challenges.

I urge support for this bill.