---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `b6fa15ce672615052031bd77ff409df6`
`Mr. KERRY — 21 January 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Madam President, for the sake of colleagues I reiterate, 
in about 15 minutes, after the majority leader has returned and had a 
chance to speak on this nomination, we will proceed to a vote.

It is my understanding--I was going to ask for unanimous consent--
there is


a request by someone on the other side to have a rollcall vote. So 
there will be a rollcall vote at that time.

We are going to be making that request in a few minutes. Let me speak 
for the couple of minutes we have left to share a couple of quick 
thoughts, if I may.

This is the beginning of the 25th year that I have had the privilege 
of serving on the Foreign Relations Committee. I have seen the ups and 
downs, the waves of opportunities and lost opportunities that we have 
lived through in the course of that time, the heady years of the 1980s, 
when arms control was the centerpiece of our focus and analysis, and we 
were in the middle of the Cold War. The committee contributed 
significantly to the dialog at that time about MX missile deployments 
and nuclear warheads, tactical, conventional weapons, how to count. 
Fundamentally, that was altered through the significant daring of 
President Reagan to meet with President Gorbachev in Reykjavik and 
negotiate a pretty remarkable reduction in nuclear warheads at that 
time. It was against the conventional wisdom, and it is proof of the 
opportunities we face today, many of which run against the conventional 
wisdom.

I am convinced President Obama and Secretary-to-be Clinton--with the 
input and cooperation of the Congress and our committee--stand on the 
threshold of a new moment of those kinds of opportunities. If Richard 
Nixon had not dared to send his then-Secretary of State Henry Kissinger 
to China to meet with Mao Tse Tung and, indeed, even to cross the 
barrier to go to Red China, as we knew it, against the wishes of many 
of the people in his own party and the wing of his party which found it 
heresy, we would not have opened China and begun a process of that 
relationship. There is an opportunity at this moment for an even 
greater relationship with China. I don't think we have begun to forge 
the kind of cooperative effort that is available to us, if we will 
engage on a much more regular and intensive basis and look for the 
places of commonality and agreement of interest.

There are many, frankly. Most people who analyze and think about 
China come to the conclusion that there is a greater opportunity for a 
cooperative, respectful partnership than there ought to be any kind of 
fears of hegemony or other kinds of expansive desires on China's part. 
Most people interpret the current modernization of China's military as 
being a fairly normative modernization process within the scale of 
things and not something that should be translated by the United States 
or others into a new arms race. I am convinced there is a great deal 
more to be achieved with China, provided we are disciplined and 
thoughtful about the setting of priorities and that we have a clear set 
of priorities.

One thing is clear. In the management of our relationships with China 
or with Russia or some other countries, we can't do everything all at 
the same time. That is a bit of the way our diplomacy has been managed 
over these past years. For instance, even with Russia, if we are more 
thoughtful about the missile shield and more thoughtful about NATO 
expansion and if we engage in a greater dialog about the mutuality of 
interest in those regions, we can avoid significant misinterpretations 
and counterreactions that come as a consequence of not talking and not 
understanding the motives, intentions of another country.

Even as a child, when I was the son of a foreign service officer, I 
always heard people talking around me about how Americans are very good 
at seeing the rest of the world through their own lens but not 
particularly adept at looking at another country's aspirations, fears, 
threats, hopes through their eyes. The more we can foster a foreign 
service that is historically, culturally, linguistically, and otherwise 
immersed in the full culture of a particular country, the better we 
are, frankly, going to do in terms of determining our own foreign 
policy future and decisions. President Obama and Hillary Clinton 
clearly understand the imperative of changing how we have made some of 
those decisions.

When I became a member of the Arms Control Observer Group in the 
Senate, something now defunct but something we might wish to think 
about enhancing in the context of proliferation issues, one of the 
things that always struck me was the degree to which from the time we 
used the bomb at Nagasaki and Hiroshima, the only nation that, 
incidentally, has ever exploded an atomic weapon against another 
people, from that moment forward, almost every weapon transition, with 
the exception of two--it was either the long-range bomber and/or the 
silent submarine--almost every weapon advancement in the course of the 
entire Cold War, we were first in the development of the new, more 
technologically advanced weapon, whatever it was. Almost without 
exception, our principal opponents at the time, the Soviet Union, came 
as quick as they could afterward and met that challenge. So we always 
ratcheted up, up until the point that we were at something like 30,000 
warheads. Today we are somewhere in the vicinity of 5,000-plus 
warheads.

It is my firm belief that in this next year, we have an opportunity 
to negotiate an agreement with Russia, where we actually ratchet down 
to about 1,000 warheads, which would be the lowest we have had in the 
course of that period of time, since the beginning, and still be safe; 
in fact, be safer. Because if you have the kinds of controls with 
verification, inspection that get you to that level, then you begin to 
send a message to the rest of the world that you are serious about 
nonproliferation, and you begin to send a message that says to the 
world: The United States is taking the lead, and we will live by the 
standards we try to foist on other people. Most importantly, we make 
the world safer because we reduce the capacity for fissile material to 
fall into the wrong hands.

I will continue to press this thousand-warhead concept. My hope is it 
will become a centerpiece of the START talks and where we proceed. It 
is interesting because, even as we have these now 5,000-plus or so 
warheads--and that, incidentally, depends on accounting rules because 
we don't count the same weapons all the time--the fact is that China, 
according to public estimates, nothing classified but public estimates, 
has about 23 warheads. They may ratchet that up because of our lack of 
having moved from where we are and other reasons. The fact is, they 
have been pretty content to feel secure with 23. Most rational people, 
thinking about the use of warheads, understand the implications of 
using only a few.

One of the things I learned at nuclear, chemical and biological 
warfare school, when I served in the Navy, was the full implication of 
just one or two or three weapons. So when you think in terms of 
thousands and so forth, in today's world, where the principal conflict 
is religious extremism and terrorism associated with it, you have to 
put a huge question mark over the theories that continue to spend the 
amounts of money that we do and create the kinds of insecurity that we 
do as a consequence.

This is a moment of rather remarkable opportunity. I recently was in 
Pakistan and Afghanistan, India. India and Pakistan are still engaged 
in literally old-fashioned, mostly Cold War, old, bad-habit 
confrontation. In fact, both sides know the concept of war would be 
absurd, when the real threat to both of them comes internally from 
people who are disgruntled and disenfranchised and otherwise seduced 
into believing that by adopting one religious ideology or another or 
none, that they are somehow advantaging themselves. This is an 
opportunity to forge a new relationship across the world, as the 
President did yesterday. I thought one of the most important phrases he 
uttered in his speech was his outreach, his holding his hand out to the 
Muslim world to ask people to come together. One of the things that 
most struck me in these last years is the degree to which religious, 
fanatical, violent extremists have actually been able to isolate the 
United States within that world rather than us being able, together 
with modern Islam, to isolate them.

That is one of the things President Obama and this administration 
offers us, an opportunity to have a completely different kind of 
interfaith, global dialog that begins to empower modern Islam to take 
back the legitimacy of their religion. It is my hope and prayer that 
will be a centerpiece of this administration's foreign policy.

There is much to do. Obviously, Somalia and East Congo, the trouble 
of


Darfur that remains, populations in Egypt and Saudi Arabia and 
elsewhere that grow at an astonishing rate so that perhaps 60 percent 
of Saudi Arabia and Egypt are under the age of 21, 50 percent under the 
age of 18, it is a stunning growth of young people who need a future. 
If that future is reduced to madrasas and to the distortion of the 
opportunities of life, we all pay a price. Our children in the future 
will pay a price. So these choices that President Obama and Secretary 
Clinton will face, together with the Congress, are significant.

Then, of course, there is one issue many people don't always think of 
as a national security/foreign policy issue. That is global climate 
change. I have attended almost every major conference since the Rio 
conference of 1992. I remember going down there with then-Senator Al 
Gore, and Senator Gore and I and a few others had held the first 
hearings on global climate change in 1988. I have watched the 
progression of all these years as all the warnings of 1988 have come 
true and more. Now our scientists are revising their latest 
predictions. Only a year ago, 2 years ago, they were saying we could 
sustain 550 parts per million of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. 
Now they have revised that, not just down to 450, but they are 
beginning to talk about 350 parts per million as being the acceptable 
level.

The latest science, regrettably, shows that Mother Earth is giving us 
feedback at a rate that is coming at us faster and in a greater degree 
than any of those scientific reports offered. The result is that 
challenge grows greater, not smaller. I regret to say we are emitting 
greenhouse gases at a rate that is four times faster than it was in the 
1990s. We are not doing the job. No other country is either entirely, 
but we are the worst because we, regrettably, are 25 percent of the 
world's global greenhouse gas emissions. Almost every country I have 
talked to in the last years, as we discuss how we are going to deal 
with this, looks back at us and says: We are waiting for your 
leadership.

I have communicated this to President Obama. He has indicated he 
intends to be serious about it. But the latest modeling shows that if 
you take every single current proposal of every country in the world 
that has a proposal--and that is not many--and you extend the curve out 
in the modeling to take all the input of today from the science and 
measure it against those current plans, we fall woefully short of what 
we need to do in order to meet this challenge. We will see an increase 
of somewhere between 600 and 900 parts per million which is 
insupportable with respect to life as we know it. We will see a degree 
of temperature increase of somewhere from 3.5 to 6 degrees centigrade. 
We have seen exactly what that means in terms of the migration of 
forests, the destruction of ocean currents, the increase of violent 
storms, the destruction of property, the movement of whole populations 
who will live with new drought, new water problems, and other issues.

So, Madam President, I think we are running out of time. I am sort of 
stalling here waiting for the majority leader.