---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `b6fc0cd771290420c2858e7a142e3d12`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 2 April 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairwoman, we come to this floor 
with a sobering recognition: $657 billion spent on the war in Iraq. 
Certainly we would not take one cent away from


our soldiers, their care, the care of their families. But $657 billion 
on a war that generated the kind of controversy and questionable 
results that the Iraq war created puts us in the position we're in 
today.

For at the same time that we were fighting a war, the last 
administration saw no reason to ask America to sacrifice. And so it 
gave these enormous--that administration gave these enormous tax cuts 
that put us in this very difficult position of reaching $1 trillion in 
debt.

What we do today with this budget--and I stand here as a vice chair 
and one believing in the principles of this administration of helping 
America restore itself in energy, health care, education--this budget, 
the Progressive Caucus budget, puts more money to extinguish poverty, 
it cuts the tax cuts that have been given to the rich, and it invests 
those moneys in education, climate control, as well as providing for 
our veterans, and, yes, it does something enormously unique: it 
provides a pathway for rehabilitation for ex-offenders. It intervenes 
with respect to youths who are involved in crime, and it provides the 
resources to fully fund what we call the Second Chance bill, allowing 
ex-offenders to be rehabilitated to go back to their families and get 
their families off of welfare.

Research has shown that targeting funding towards intervention rather 
than incarceration is more effective than reducing crime and saves the 
taxpayers' money in the long run.

This is a bill for the people of America. I ask my colleagues to 
support it and to support the President's budget.

Madam Chair, I would like to rise in support of the budget put 
forward today by the Congressional Progressive Caucus. This alternative 
budget combats the worsening poverty and Hurricane Katrina redress, 
renews federal commitment to fully address the on-going suffering of 
the victims of Hurricane Katrina and help cut the poverty rate in 
America by 50 percent during the next decade with increased funding for 
decent affordable housing, anti-hunger programs, and more quality child 
care. This Progressive budget restores the 21st century social contract 
and safety net; Economic Stimulus #2 ($300 billion), which provides 
more immediate help to overcome the ''Iraq recession'' through 
increased federal assistance for unemployment insurance, food stamps, 
Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) payments to states, and 
housing assistance.

The Congressional Progressive Budget targets waste, fraud, and abuse 
in federal government, starting with Pentagon savings and projects 
enactment of the Common Sense Budget Act, which would save at least $60 
billion/year on largely obsolete Cold War weapons systems plus billions 
more in waste, fraud, and abuse in DOD spending identified by the 
nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO).

This Progressive budget repeals the Bush tax cuts for the top 1 
percent of taxpayers--due to expire in 2010 regardless and beyond--
savings of at least $222 billion and cracks down on corporate welfare 
while projecting elimination of various corporate tax loopholes such as 
deductibility of advertising for junk mail, imaging purposes, etc. and 
special tax breaks for oil and gas industry and other extraction 
industries.

This alternative budget shifts some spending and increases other non-
military spending to fight root causes of terrorism--21st century 
diplomacy, meeting basic human needs (e.g. HIV/AIDS/TB, universal basic 
education for all); Global Warming and Energy Independence, sustained 
investments in renewable energy and energy independence, including 
needed extension of production and investment tax credits. This budget 
includes full funding of authorized levels for green jobs and pathways 
out of poverty grants. In addition, climate policy should significantly 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a manner which supports economic 
security and health of low-income and moderate-income families and 
communities of color and education for all--fully fund Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act and IDEA prospectively and improve Teacher 
Corps and job training. This ''progressive'' budget includes Medicare 
for All--affordable, accessible, quality health care for all Americans, 
starting with full funding of SCHIP to cover every child in America.

Included in this budget is Guaranteed Veterans' Health Care--which 
ensures whatever federal funding is needed to provide health care 
(including mental health) for all America's veterans (including but not 
limited to veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan military operations; 
support for the Middle-Class--increase funding to protect fundamental 
worker rights, enforce fair credit and lending practices, and promote 
livable wages and safe workplaces; and rebuild America's Communities--
substantially increase funding for Community Development Block Grants, 
Social Services Block Grants, and community policing, and authorize 
release of funds available through the gas tax to clean-up leaking 
underground storage tanks that threaten the drinking water of nearly 
half of all Americans. This progressive budget increases funding 
supporting the Office of Environmental Justice and environmental 
justice programs, including community grants and a review of the EPA 
and other agencies' policies to ensure they are protective of minority 
and low-income communities. Madam Chair, we need to pass a real budget 
for America that's forward thinking and ''progressive'' that will get 
us back on the right track.