---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b701eec1c7cc5eab546011aa35742cd4`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 11 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, before the Senator from Texas leaves, I 
wish he could put back up the ad in the New York Times yesterday. It 
strikes me that the Cornyn amendment is an opportunity for Senate 
Democrats to have their reputation restored. I can't believe that 
Senate Democrats approved of this kind of trash that we have seen in 
the New York Times in this paid ad last Sunday which, I gather, cost 
over $100,000. This organization, MoveOn.org, is claiming it controls 
the Democratic Party. I don't believe that is true. But this is what 
they had to say back in 2004.

Someone named Eli Pariser, an employee of MoveOn, talking about the 
Democratic Party, said:




 Now it's our party. We bought it. We own it. We are going 


 to take it back.


MoveOn is claiming they control the Democratic Party. If I were a 
Democratic Senator, I would be offended by MoveOn.org's claim, as 
Senator Cornyn pointed out in his comments, that they communicate on a 
near-daily basis with senior Democratic Members. Here is a quote:




 I called over there and said ''you guys better have a 


 strategy on this.''


By ''there,'' Matzzie, who, I guess, is the head of MoveOn.org, meant 
the offices of Democratic leaders on Capitol Hill with which he or his 
staff communicate on a near-daily basis. According to Matzzie, Matzzie 
has personal relationships with several senior Democratic Members of 
Congress.

In short, it strikes me, listening to the Senator from Texas and 
reading the article in the New York Times myself Sunday, that this 
organization, this radical leftwing organization is attacking the 
patriotism of General Petraeus with this ad, accusing him, in effect, 
of treason--''Betray Us,'' it says--and is claiming control of our good 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle. I don't believe that. I 
don't believe that for a minute. The Cornyn resolution is an 
opportunity for the Senate to go on record, hopefully unanimously, 
objecting to this kind of dialog. Certainly, they are free to do 
whatever they want. It is a free country. The first amendment allows 
everyone to say whatever they please. But you don't have to endorse 
this kind of nonsense.

This organization strikes me as a severe threat to the reputation of 
the Democratic Party. This is an opportunity the Senator from Texas has 
offered for all of us to go on record in opposition to this outrageous 
and unacceptable ad run in the New York Times on Sunday.

''General Petraeus or General Betray Us?'' What an outrage. Are we 
not offended by that? Do we not condemn that? This is the opportunity 
for the Senate, on a broad bipartisan basis, to condemn this outrageous 
ad.

I thank the Senator from Texas for giving us this opportunity. I hope 
when this vote occurs, it will be a unanimous expression. Regardless of 
how we may feel about the war--and I know that is a deeply divisive 
issue in this body; we understand that--some kinds of rhetoric are 
simply unacceptable. Here we have an outside organization claiming to 
basically control the Democratic Party. I don't believe they do. If I 
were a member of the Democratic caucus and sitting on the other side of 
the aisle in this Chamber, I would be offended by an organization 
claiming to control me and to speak for me, such as this group 
apparently does.

I thank the Senator from Texas. It is a perfectly timely amendment, 
as General Petraeus is testifying here in the Senate today and in the 
House yesterday. Of course, next week we will be dealing with the Iraq 
issue again. I hope we can discuss it in a typical, responsible Senate 
debate and not have these extreme organizations on the far left, which 
apparently wish for America's defeat, have a disproportionate influence 
on this body over the outcome of our debates. We ought to be able to 
rise above that. We have the possibility of doing that. The American 
people would like for us to do that. They want us to engage in a civil 
debate about the way forward in Iraq. We will have an opportunity to 
demonstrate that again next week. I hope we will demonstrate it this 
morning by overwhelmingly--and hopefully on a unanimous basis--
condemning this outrageous ad questioning the patriotism of General 
Petraeus.

I yield the floor.