---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SENATORS
## `b701d65f70a794f644dd713ee7cc2a73`
`Mr. HATCH — 20 November 2008`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President. I thank you for the opportunity today to 
pay tribute to a very special man, caring husband and father, and great 
Senator Gordon Smith.

Sadly, he will be leaving this august body soon and returning to 
private life. The United States Senate will be losing a great leader, a 
man of high integrity, and a true statesman.

Gordon joined the United States Senate in January 1997, after winning 
an election as a rural conservative in a State defined by a more 
liberal landscape. After his election, Senator Smith quickly made his 
mark as someone both sides of the aisle could work with for the good of 
his State and our Nation. He displayed the characteristics of what I 
believe makes a truly great Senator--someone who is willing to roll up 
his sleeves and battle for what he believes is right.

His commitment to Oregon was exemplary. He focused on issues that 
were critical to the citizens of his State including education, health 
care, natural resources, and bridging the rural-urban divide. Along the 
way he displayed a true independent streak, bucking his party when he 
believed he needed to go a different direction for the good of those he 
represented.

Senator Smith's leadership and abilities were greatly appreciated by 
the committee members he served with, and the positions he was asked to 
assume. As chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Aging he 
presided over critical issues facing our Nation's aging population. In 
addition, he made tremendous contributions to four additional 
committees: Commerce, Science,


and Transportation; Energy and Natural Resources; Indian Affairs; and 
the Finance Committee.

He was also selected four times by the leadership of our party to 
become the Deputy Whip, an important position we could all look to for 
guidance and support.

I had the distinct pleasure of traveling with Senator Smith on two 
occasions to Iraq to assess the situation first-hand, visit with the 
troops, and become more intimately familiar with the challenges facing 
our country overseas. We shared a genuine interest and concern in the 
events taking place in that country, and I will forever be grateful to 
Senator Smith for taking that journey with me.

Before joining the Senate, Gordon made his mark in the business 
world--assuming the helm of his family's frozen vegetable processing 
company. His strength and commitment steered this company to new 
success, and established himself as a business leader with qualities to 
emulate.

You can't talk about Gordon Smith without talking about the love he 
has for people, especially his wonderful family. Gordon and his wife 
Sharon have raised three wonderful children: Brittany, Garrett, and 
Morgan. Even while meeting the demands of his job, you always knew his 
thoughts and actions centered on home.

During his second term in office, Gordon and Sharon had to face a 
tragedy almost impossible to bear. Their son, Garrett, lost his battle 
with depression and grief. As I watched this deeply grieving father, I 
was so powerfully reminded that life isn't always about what happens in 
the walls of the United States Capitol but it is about our families, 
our friends, and the love we share with those closest to our souls.

Senator Smith didn't just let his grief consume him--he took action. 
Perhaps his proudest accomplishment in Senate service would be the 
passing of a suicide prevention law, named after his son. This law 
passed unanimously and has made a real difference in programs across 
the country that are designed to help those in critical emotional need.

I am truly grateful that I have had the opportunity to serve with 
this great man for 12 years. In a town where true friendships can be 
rare, I have been blessed to find a true friend in Gordon Smith. 
Although we didn't always agree, our deepest fundamental beliefs were 
shaped in the same bedrock of less government, opportunities for all, 
and integrity in public service.

I always knew that whether in times of trouble or success, I had 
found a true comrade in service, someone I could trust to do what is 
right and hold fast to the notion of public service for the people.

Robert Louis Stevenson stated, ''We are all travelers in the 
wilderness of this world, and the best we can find in our travels is an 
honest friend.'' Gordon has been just that friend to me.

I will miss working alongside this great Senator, and true American. 
However, I know that throughout his life he will continue to work for 
the good of others in whatever endeavors he chooses to follow. I want 
to wish Gordon and his wife Sharon and their children many years of 
continued success, happiness and peace as they travel life's path 
together. Thank you for the opportunity to honor this extraordinary 
man.

















John Warner


Mr. President, I wish to speak today in honor of my good friend, the 
senior Senator from Virginia. As you know, Senator Warner is retiring 
at the conclusion of this the 110th Congress, and I wanted to take a 
moment to express my appreciation for his friendship and his years of 
public service.

Senator Warner's retirement marks the end of a career in the service 
of the United States that has spanned more than 6 decades. John, having 
been born in 1927 and raised right here in Washington, DC, enlisted in 
the Navy during World War II in January 1945. After the conclusion of 
the war, he left the military to pursue a legal education at the 
University of Virginia, only to rejoin the Navy, this time with the 
Marines, to serve in the Korean War.

In 1953, he finished his legal studies while still serving in the 
Marine Corps Reserves and spent the next 7 years as a government 
attorney, first as a clerk for a U.S. appeals court judge, then as an 
assistant U.S. attorney. Senator Warner left the public sector in 1960 
to pursue a career in private legal practice, though it would not be 
long until he was called into service again.

In 1969, he was appointed by President Richard Nixon to serve as the 
Under Secretary of the Navy. Just over 3 years later, he succeeded John 
H. Chafee as the Secretary of the Navy. This, of course, was a unique 
era in the history of U.S. diplomacy and, as Naval Secretary, John was 
involved in a number of diplomatic efforts involving the Soviet Union, 
most notably the Sea Executive Agreement.

John's political career began in 1978 when he was elected to 
represent the State of Virginia in the Senate. He is the second longest 
serving Senator in Virginia's history and, by a margin of many years, 
the longest serving Republican from the State. Of course, John and I 
have crossed paths many times during our years in the Senate. We served 
together on the HELP Committee and the Select Committee on 
Intelligence. But, for me, one of the most memorable times I shared 
with John took place outside the Halls of the Senate.

During the August recess of 1985, my son Jess and I were joined by 
John and his son on a fishing and boating trip in Utah. During one day 
of the trip, after returning from a hike, I was surprised to see a 
ghostly-looking creature sitting in our campsite. As it turned out, 
John and some of the others had formed a mud hole down near the river, 
and he had been diving in and out of it. By the time I had returned to 
the campsite, John was covered head to toe in pumice mud. Apparently, 
the mud was good for the skin, but at the time I was unaware of this 
fact.

On the last day of the trip, John and I were fishing on Lake Powell 
and I was lucky enough to catch an 8 pound 60 striped bass. He was 
impressed with my catch and he asked if he could keep it, apparently he 
wanted it as a trophy. That evening, we flew up north to an event in 
Deer Valley, UT, but because we didn't have time to change after the 
flight, we showed up in our fishing clothes. John strode into the fancy 
ski lodge to meet the shirt-and-tied crowd sporting his jeans and 
carrying my fish around with him! Though I can't be certain, it sure 
seemed like he was proud of it.

But, seriously, Mr. President, Senator Warner will always be 
remembered for his even-tempered nature and for his work on behalf of 
our men and women in the military. He has never been one to follow the 
crowd for partisanship's sake, always choosing to follow his own 
conscience. I must admit that, over the years, John and I have found 
ourselves in disagreement over issues that I believed to be of vital 
importance. But he was always one to respect the views of his 
colleagues in either party, even if he went a different way in the end.

I wish John and his wife Jeanne the best of luck in all their future 
endeavors. I think I speak for all my Senate colleagues when I say that 
the Senate will be a lesser place without John in it.
















 Elizabeth Dole


Mr. President, I wish to speak today regarding Senator Elizabeth 
Dole, who will be departing from the United States Senate. I have known 
Senator Dole well and I am sure I am joined by many of my colleagues in 
saying that she will be missed.

Senator Dole has shown her enthusiasm and commitment firsthand 
through her vast contributions over the last 6 years. Her true courage 
is the powerful force behind her remarkable public service career. Most 
important, Senator Dole can conceive and articulate goals that lift 
people and unite them in the pursuit of objectives worthy of their best 
efforts.

As we look back on the challenges of our economy, Senator Dole has 
become a robust leader in helping our country focus on creating jobs, 
strengthening national security, improving education, and making 
quality health care more affordable and accessible. Her initial 
determination was demonstrated as she graduated from Duke University 
and Harvard Law School, then entering her public career by serving 
under multiple U.S. Presidents, including Ronald Regan and George H.W. 
Bush. Throughout her career, she served as Secretary of Transportation, 
Secretary of Labor, and head of the American Red Cross. She


continued her public service by bringing her zeal to the Senate as the 
first female U.S. Senator from North Carolina.

As a fellow Senator, Elizabeth displays qualities of a true southern 
belle. She is a powerful role model. Her efforts to make North Carolina 
and America safer, stronger, and healthier have not gone unnoticed. 
Most importantly, she has played a key role in serving on the Senate 
Armed Services, Banking, Small Business and Aging Committees.

Mr. President, I extend my deepest gratitude to Senator Dole. I can 
say, without reservation, that she is a dedicated public servant and 
friend.

















John Sununu


Mr. President, I rise to speak today regarding the departure of my 
esteemed colleague from New Hampshire, Senator John Sununu. I have 
known Senator Sununu and his family for many years now, and I have 
worked closely with Senator Sununu since he first joined Congress in 
1996 in the House of Representatives and then in the Senate since 2002. 
Today, I am sure that I am joined by many of my colleagues in saying 
that his service, his thoughtfulness, and his friendship in this 
institution will be missed.

Often referred to as one of the smartest people in Congress, Senator 
Sununu earned bachelor of science and master of science degrees in 
mechanical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
(MIT). Setting the bar even higher, he also went on to earn a Master of 
Business Administration from Harvard University. Armed with that kind 
of education, it would have been easy for Senator Sununu to spend the 
rest of his days on a career track that would have compensated him and 
his family in ways that most of us only dream about. Instead, after 
only a few short years in the private sector, Senator Sununu chose to 
put his mind to work in Congress at solving some of the most pressing 
problems and issues of our day. It is for that dedication of service to 
his country to which I pay tribute today.

In addition to being one of the smartest people in Congress, Senator 
Sununu also holds the well-known title of being the youngest Senator 
currently serving in our legislative body. While that feat alone is 
impressive in its own right, I also like to think of Senator Sununu as 
one of the most thoughtful Senators currently serving in the Senate. 
Specifically, Mr. President, I mention Senator Sununu's act of 
friendship and solidarity in 2005 when he shaved his own hair and stood 
alongside our mutual friend, Senator Arlen Specter, as he underwent 
chemotherapy treatment. A simple act, indeed, but it is one that has 
not gone unnoticed and it is one that illustrates the thoughtfulness of 
a man and a Senator who stood by his colleague in a time of great need. 
It is that compassionate thoughtfulness of which we will all miss.

From his thoughtful work on energy and climate change legislation to 
his valued friendship while working together on the Finance Committee, 
Senator Sununu has done a tremendous job for the people of New 
Hampshire and our nation. As a colleague, I appreciate his instrumental 
support of the Flag Desecration Amendment in 2006. As a friend, I 
convey my highest admiration and respect for what he has been able to 
accomplish while here in the Senate. It is that spirit of friendship of 
which all of us could always gain a little something from.

I wish Senator Sununu and his lovely family the best and thank them 
for the years of service Senator Sununu has been able to provide to 
this body as a result of their sacrifice. Senator Sununu's journey in 
the U.S. Senate would not be complete without their support, and I am 
sure that they will all be happy to have their loving husband and 
father around the house a little more often. Without hesitation, Mr. 
President, I can say that our loss is their gain. To Senator Sununu and 
his family, I extend my deepest gratitude for the countless hours of 
service, the simple acts of thoughtfulness, and the years of friendship 
they have extended to me, my colleagues, and the people of the United 
States. Given Senator Sununu's track record, I am certain that we will 
be hearing more about him for many years to come.

