---
---

# HONORING THE SERVICE OF PRIVATE FIRST CLASS NICHOLAS RIEHL
## `b710cc41296e50bdc3e2f41ddc0fc00b`
`Mr. KAGEN — 11 May 2007`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Madam Speaker, I would like to honor Nicholas Riehl.

Private First Class Nicholas ''Nic'' Riehl, from Shiocton, Wisconsin 
died at age 21 on April 27, 2007, while serving his country in the U.S. 
Army near Fallujah, Iraq.

Last Saturday, his sister, Roselyn, had this to say to the several 
thousand in attendance:




 When I think of my big brother Nic, many things come to 


 mind. But coward was not one. So when he joined the army 


 there wasn't going to be a way to stop him. His life was a 


 long, long, road, with many turns, some for good, some for 


 bad; but those little bumps in the road made Nic who he was. 


 If he wanted something he would have to work for it, and he 


 did with such pride. It was truly amazing, also he would do 


 it all with a smile, but not just any smile, he has one of 


 those smiles you can see with your eyes closed.



 I know I was truly blessed to have him in my life, better 


 yet as a brother. He was there to always lend me his words of 


 wisdom, a helping hand, or to bring my ego back to the 


 ground, and simply prove to me once again that he was the 


 best. There were many things he attempted to teach me like 


 guitar, how to be a ''Riehl'' leader on the basketball court, 


 and never give up and also, to stay true to yourself.





 I understand that the Lord needed him, not only did He take 


 my big brother, He took my best friend. Nic, I'll see you on 


 the court!


Please join me in a moment of silence for Nic Riehl, and for his 
family's courage in his loss.
