---
---

# SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS SERVING AS TRANSLATORS OR  INTERPRETERS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES
## `b7266ef9c67f912c90d9a8d33b96586b`
`Mr. KELLER of Florida — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. KELLER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, S. 1104 expands an existing program that provides 50 
special immigrant visas per year to Iraqi and Afghani nationals who 
have served as translators for our Armed Forces.

Translators and interpreters would be eligible to petition if they 
are an Iraqi or an Afghani national, have served with our military for 
at least 12 months, and receive a favorable recommendation from the 
unit in which he or she served. Many of us have heard stories about 
Iraqis who have faithfully served alongside our troops bridging the 
language divide. They have been a valuable resource for the United 
States and its allies.

Yet many Iraqi and Afghani translators have faced intense persecution 
from their communities as a result of serving the U.S. military. It is 
because of this persecution that the translator visa program was first 
established. This program allows us to reward those who worked directly 
for the United States Government in supporting our troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

S. 1104, as amended in committee, increases the number of special 
immigrant visas available to translators to 500 per year for the next 2 
years. The increase to 500 visas is a direct response to the number of 
petitions that have been received and approved by the U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services. Without this increase, many translators will 
continue to face persecution while they wait in their home country for 
a visa to become available.

This bill has already been approved unanimously in the Senate, and I 
urge its passage here today.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.