# TRIBUTE TO STEPHEN BOYD
## `b7325a2f5f58d79cc6a50b035efa38fe`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to say goodbye to one of 
the most esteemed members of my staff. Stephen Boyd, an exceptional 
individual with a deep devotion to the State of Alabama, will be 
leaving my office to become chief of staff for a new member of the 
Alabama delegation, Congressman-elect Martha Roby.

Stephen came to my office 7 years ago right out of law school. I was 
immediately impressed not only by his talent but by his tenacity. No 
matter how difficult the task given him he would pursue it with vigor, 
and he would not relent until he arrived at a solution. Stephen sees 
every obstacle as a challenge to overcome.

In his first post as my legislative assistant for energy issues, he 
worked on efforts to establish the Coastal Impact Assistance Program. 
That program became law through the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Stephen 
also played a significant role in developing the Gulf of Mexico Energy 
Security Act, which President George W. Bush signed into law in 2006.

Early on, Stephen also recognized the need to pursue alternative 
energy sources in order to diminish our dependence on foreign oil. 
Through his efforts he brought considerable attention to switchgrass as 
a renewable energy resource, ultimately leading to switchgrass' 
potential being recognized in President Bush's 2006 State of the Union 
Address.

One of Stephen's most valuable assets is his ability to anticipate 
problems and to prepare for the unpredictable. Stephen was the point 
person for our office response when Hurricane Katrina hit in 2005. But 
before that disastrous hurricane hit, Stephen had already implemented 
an office action plan to make sure we could quickly and efficiently 
respond to an emergency.

In the last 4 years, Stephen has served first as my press secretary, 
followed by a swift promotion to communications director. He played a 
key role in overseeing office communications during some of the most 
difficult and challenging issues our country has faced in a long time--
from wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, to the recent economic crisis, to 
the disastrous oilspill in the Gulf of Mexico.

Stephen also made an invaluable contribution in two Supreme Court 
confirmations, helping deliver a crucial message about preserving the 
integrity of America's courts--defending them from the corruption of 
politics and grounding them in the firm bedrock of our Constitution.

Given his myriad accomplishments and his stellar service to this 
office, it is no surprise that Stephen is highly regarded by his 
colleagues in the Senate. Allow me to share what others have said:

Don Stewart, communications director for Senate minority leader Mitch 
McConnell, said, ''Stephen has shown the kind of calm leadership that 
was needed in one of the most active periods I've ever seen in my time 
here. He doesn't yell and scream, he just gets it done.''

Josh Holmes, staff director for Senate minority leader Mitch 
McConnell's Republican Communications Center, said, ''Stephen is one of 
the rare commodities in Washington who prefers achieving results over 
personal accolades. He's a consummate professional and effective 
advocate who has been an absolute pleasure to work with.''

Rick Dearborn, my chief of staff, said, ''I am proud to have worked 
alongside Stephen Boyd. I have always admired his attention to detail 
and the great clarity of his perspective. He has a commonsense approach 
I've witnessed him apply to all manner of complex problems to be 
solved, issues to be decided or given further thought.

So much of what I believe has guided him to excel has been his basic 
honesty, his strong core integrity and a sincere commitment to serve 
the people of Alabama on behalf of Senator Sessions through his various 
roles in our office.

Our loss in the Senate is Martha Roby's gain in the House and the 
second District of Alabama. He now assumes a key position within our 
staff delegation, as the Congresswoman's new chief of staff. She could 
not have made a better choice.''

Matt Miner, staff director for the Senate Judiciary Committee, said, 
''Stephen Boyd has been a tremendous asset to the Judiciary Committee 
during Senator Sessions' tenure as ranking member. Through two Supreme 
Court confirmations and numerous national security debates, Stephen's 
calm and thoughtful work as communications director helped focus the 
national debate and convey the Republican message. He is one of the 
most talented people with whom I have worked on Capitol Hill, and I 
wish him all the best in his next endeavor.''

Brian Benczkowski, former staff director for the Senate Judiciary 
Committee said, ''It was a professional and personal pleasure to work 
with someone as gifted and hard-working as Stephen Boyd. Stephen has an 
uncanny ability to analyze any given subject like a top-notch lawyer, 
while also applying a good dose of Alabama common


sense to the problem, and then communicating the result in clear and 
unmistakable terms. These skills were an invaluable resource for the 
Senate Judiciary Committee during my tenure, particularly during the 
Sotomayor and Kagan nominations. If there is a silver lining in his 
departure from Senator Sessions' staff, it is that he will continue his 
public service for the people of Alabama. His keen judgment and 
excellent personal integrity will be an asset to Congresswoman Roby, 
and I know he will be missed by his colleagues in the Senate.''

Alan Hanson, chief of staff to Senator Richard Shelby, said, ''It is 
a credit to Stephen's abilities and work ethic that he has so rapidly 
advanced in his Capitol Hill career. Having worked with him for 3/1/2/ 
years and known him much longer, I can personally attest that he is a 
singularly talented and capable jack-of-all-trades. Senator Sessions' 
loss is truly Congresswoman Roby's gain, and I look forward to 
witnessing the great things Stephen will accomplish in his new role in 
the House of Representatives.''

Sarah Haley, press secretary for Senator Sessions, said, ''Stephen 
Boyd is a man of scrupulous character, sound ethics, and servant 
leadership. It has been a privilege to work under him. Stephen will be 
greatly missed by all of us.''

Stephen Miller, press secretary for the Senate Judiciary Committee, 
said, ''Stephen Boyd is a brilliant communicator, operating at a truly 
elite level. And yet he is the furthest thing from an elitist. 
Thoughtful, genuine, sincere--these are the traits so familiar to those 
who know him. I am proud to have had the chance to work with Stephen 
Boyd. But I am prouder still to call him a friend.''

Ryan Patmintra, press secretary for Senator Jon Kyl, said, 
''Stephen's background in both policy and communications made him one 
of the top-notch Senate communicators on either side of the aisle. His 
ability to go beyond talking points and walk reporters through our 
arguments served us well. We were lucky to have him on our team. His 
presence and expertise will be sorely missed in the Senate.''

Cindy Hayden, who served with Stephen Boyd during her tenure as my 
chief counsel, said, ''Stephen displays unwavering devotion to Senator 
Sessions, to the people of Alabama, and to his principles. A talented 
lawyer and a trusted colleague, Stephen possesses a likeability even 
his opponents find hard to resist. I am confident his future colleagues 
will enjoy working with him as much as I did.''

I will miss Stephen. He was always thinking down the road, 
anticipating programs, and protecting me and the Senate from unwise 
actions. That kind of attention to detail and good judgment is rare and 
noteworthy.

From the first day he joined my staff, Stephen has been a tremendous 
asset. He has earned the respect and admiration of his colleagues, and 
has proven himself as a leader. His journey is only beginning, and I 
wish him all the best in the months and years to come.
