---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2011
## `b744af88cbcf08b513d1c8bd88b19f62`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 28 July 2010`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. Madam Chair, I respect the gentleman. He takes 
a principled position on congressionally sponsored projects, but I 
strongly oppose this amendment.

The Flake amendment, regardless of its intentions, would cut $163 
million out of important military construction projects for the 
National Guard and Reserves, which are playing a key role in our war in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

This amendment would cut $57 million out of force protection, safety 
and security forces facilities, including more secure entrance gates at 
our military installations, fire stations to protect our troops and 
their families on posts.

The Flake amendment would cut $30 million from quality of life 
facilities--much needed by our troops and earned by our troops, 
deserved by our troops--barracks, youth and community centers, roads. 
It cuts 44 projects that are in the Department of Defense's Future 
Years Defense Program.

One of the programs this would cut is $1 million I put in this bill 
as an earmark to provide for a new Soldier Readiness Processing Center 
at Fort Hood so those soldiers, over 40,000 serving there, will not 
have to go through a processing center which was the site of the murder 
of 12 of their Army comrades and one civilian just months ago.

A ''yes'' vote on this amendment will cut these kinds of worthy 
projects.

Now, Mr. Flake will claim and has claimed that DOD will still have 
the money to spend, but that's not correct because this amendment is 
flawed in the way it's drafted because--well, first of all, let me say 
that let's at least get rid of the pretence that cutting earmarks would 
save taxpayer dollars if he says, well, this money could still be spent 
by DOD.

But the reality is, because of the flawed nature of the way this 
amendment was put together, it would be the best--the worst, actually, 
of both worlds. One, it wouldn't save taxpayers' dollars because the 
appropriations would go to the Department of Defense; but because it 
would be in an account for programs not authorized, that money could 
not be spent for all of the worthwhile kinds of projects that I have 
just mentioned.

Let me put in perspective what we are talking about here. This is a 
$140 billion bill. Less than three-tenths of 1 percent of this bill was 
designated by Members of Congress working with community leaders, 
military leaders, military base leaders.

If I can ask my staff for a chart, I would just like to show, in 
perspective, what a small part of this total bill actually goes to 
congressionally sponsored projects.

Now, Mr. Flake apparently has more trust in the Obama administration 
than I did. I don't think bureaucrats in Washington are right 100 
percent of the time, and it's not wrong--in fact, it's right--to say 
that Members of Congress, working with military leaders and community 
leaders, ought to have some voice in where their taxpayers' dollars go.

Madam Chair, I want to point out this is a chart. This graph shows 
how much is spent in this bill. The part of the bill that Mr. Flake is 
objecting to is this red part right here. Probably from that side of 
the aisle it would be very, very hard to see it.

But I just want people to understand that the administration gets a 
voice on this amount of money in the bill. Members of Congress working 
with military leaders get a voice on this amount. This is what we are 
talking about.

But I want to talk and say this amount is significant because, if 
this amendment were to pass, and I hope it will not and I do not 
believe it will, it would harm important quality of life and protection 
projects for our service men and women. It would kill a major 
initiative in this bill to increase funding for the National Guard and 
Reserves who are playing a vitally important role in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

May I inquire how much time I have remaining?