# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `b74d6b127ccaafe1643bfb1b98618214`
`Mr. COLEMAN — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. COLEMAN. Madam President, following the attacks of 9/11, we made 
a promise to the American people to make this country safer. We 
identified on all levels cracks in our system. Most alarming, we found 
that intelligence agencies were not talking to one another. We found 
that when the left arm doesn't know what the right arm is doing, the 
consequences can be disastrous. The gathering of intelligence is not an 
abstract concept that only happens on the streets of Afghanistan or 
Iraq. It happens every day on the streets of Duluth or St. Paul, MN. 
Our local law enforcement agencies are on the front lines of our 
communities and often know exactly what is happening on our streets.

Sadly, in what is reminiscent of pre-9/11 days, municipalities have 
identified a loophole in the law--or in many ways I don't even call it 
a loophole, they have simply circumvented Federal law and have banned 
the practice of officers inquiring about a suspect's immigration 
status, allowing cities throughout the country to become what are 
called sanctuaries for illegal immigrants.

My amendment seeks to end the practice of sanctuary cities. These are 
cities that seek to evade their obligations under section 642 of the 
Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. 
That law expressly prohibits any Federal, State, or local government 
entity from preventing a law enforcement officer from sharing 
information with the Federal Government regarding the immigration 
status of a person with whom they come in contact.

The law is very clear. Section 642, subsection (b) states:




 no person or agency may prohibit, or in any way restrict--


In any way restrict--



 a Federal, State, or local government entity from doing any 


 of the following with respect to information regarding the 


 immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of any individual:


It goes on to say, you cannot restrict ''sending such information to, 
or requesting or receiving such information from, the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service.'' You cannot restrict, in any way, 
''maintaining such information.'' You cannot, in any way, restrict 
''exchanging such information with any other Federal, State, or local 
government entity.''

So that is what the law states.

Several cities have passed ordinances or issued executive orders 
forbidding local law enforcement from even asking the question as to 
whether a person is in the United States lawfully, and thereby evading 
their legal responsibility to report their suspicions to the Federal 
Government.

In other cases, police department policies forbid or severely 
restrict their officers from asking a person about immigration status.

Essentially, the philosophy is ''don't ask, don't tell''--don't ask 
suspects about their immigration status, so then you don't have to 
follow the dictates of the Federal law. These cities have decided the 
rule of law does not apply to them.

Scores of law enforcement officers have chafed at the gag order. I 
had a meeting last week with law enforcement officers from Minnesota in 
my office, and they mentioned this. They mentioned the frustration they 
have with what they think is their responsibility to report if they 
think somebody is not here legally, that--who knows?--this person could 
be somebody who had been deported before, and that is a felony. They 
are absolutely prohibited from even asking the question or having the 
conversation.

Many say they routinely come in contact with dangerous persons they 
know have been deported already--they know it--yet their local 
sanctuary policy is to prevent them from being able to do anything 
about it.

Supporters say sanctuary policies are intended to be humanitarian 
because they allow illegal immigrants to cooperate with the police 
without fear of deportation. But the consequences of these policies are 
anything but for the law-abiding members of these communities: in some 
cases, dangerous criminal aliens remaining on the streets, muzzled law 
enforcement officers, and scarce local resources being wasted on


noncitizens who should be turned over to the Federal authorities.

Opening the channels of communication between local and Federal law 
enforcement will help prevent crimes against other members of the 
communities. Consider some recent examples.

Two young women who were killed in an accident near Virginia Beach 
earlier this year were struck by a drunk driver who had three previous 
alcohol-related convictions and an identity theft conviction, but 
because he had never been sent to prison, there had never been an 
examination of his immigration status. Reportedly, many area police 
officers knew the individual was in the United States illegally. Yet 
they never reported it to Federal immigration authorities.

In April 2005, a Denver police officer was shot and killed by an 
illegal immigrant who had been stopped three times for traffic 
violations and even appeared in court just 3 weeks before committing 
the murder. Strict rules in the police manual deterred officers from 
inquiring about his immigration status, so Federal immigration 
authorities were never notified.

In June 2003, a 9-year-old girl was kidnapped in San Jose, CA, by an 
illegal immigrant who had been arrested previously for auto theft. 
Because the San Jose Police Department's policy manual forbids officers 
from initiating police action intended to determine a person's 
immigration status, Federal authorities were never contacted.

In December 2002, a 42-year-old mother of two was raped in Queens by 
a group of men. Four of them were illegal immigrants, and three had 
previously been arrested for such crimes as assault, attempted robbery 
in the second degree, criminal trespass, illegal gun possession, and 
drug offenses, but were later released.

In May 2002, three women in Houston, TX, were raped and murdered by 
Walter Alexander Sorto, an illegal immigrant who had been ticketed 
several times for traffic violations.

This is not to suggest all aliens are violent criminals or that all 
violent criminals are illegal aliens. We caught Al Capone on tax 
evasion. We can protect our communities by allowing police officers to 
find out whether a person has broken our immigration laws.

Sanctuary city policies do not just leave their own citizens at risk. 
Mohammed Atta, the leader of the 9-11 hijackers, was stopped and 
ticketed for driving without a license in Broward County, FL, in early 
2001. His visa was expired. Under these policies, no one would ever 
know that.

Just this month, we saw a terror plot unfold in Fort Dix that might 
have been prevented sooner had the local officials, who pulled the 
suspects over on numerous traffic violations, inquired about their 
immigration status. Make no mistake, this is a national security issue.

To address this problem, I am offering a simple amendment to make it 
clear a police officer has the right to ask immigration-related 
questions of a suspect, and to report his or her suspicions to Federal 
authorities. My amendment restores the original intent of the 1996 law, 
which I read before, by stating that Federal, State, and local 
governments may not prohibit law enforcement from acquiring information 
about immigration status where there is probable cause. That is what 
the 1996 law says, and yet cities have been able to circumvent this. 
Let us, then, go back to the original intent of that law.

My amendment does not require local law enforcement to use their 
scarce resources enforcing immigration laws. It does not enable local 
law enforcement to conduct immigration raids or act as Federal agents, 
or even determine a person's immigration status. Instead, my amendment 
simply gives law enforcement officers the ability to pursue a person's 
immigration status as part of their routine work, and thus to report 
any suspicions to the appropriate Federal authorities through already 
established channels, such as through the Law Enforcement Support 
Center at ICE, or ICE's Criminal Alien Program.

In essence, sanctuary cities are thumbing their noses at Federal law. 
The Justice Department has concluded that States have the inherent 
sovereign right to make arrests for both criminal and civil immigration 
violations. Section 642 of the 1996 immigration reform bill expressly 
states local law enforcement officers must communicate with Federal 
authorities. Yet their leadership or their local government or their 
city council is actually preventing them from doing so. In this day and 
age, we cannot allow for such law enforcement-free zones.

Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the bill before us today takes 
away the strongest argument that sanctuary city supporters have; 
namely, that illegal immigrants will be so frightened about being 
deported that they will never go to the police.

As currently written, this bill will give a legal status to these 
aliens. Any alien participating in the program should not fear an 
encounter with a police officer. The only aliens who would fear contact 
with the police are those who have committed some crime.

Sanctuary cities take away the ability of a police officer to use his 
or her own judgment in the course of their routine police work to 
inquire about a person's immigration status and share their concerns 
with the Federal Government for followup action.

The reality is law enforcement officers ask a wide range of questions 
of suspects every day that touch upon many aspects of the person's 
behavior. But in sanctuary cities, they cannot ask about immigration. 
The artificial wall relative to immigration status is illogical--and I 
would suggest perhaps even unconstitutional--and in this day and age 
harmful to our national security. We ought to give this tool back to 
our local law enforcement.

Finally, one other point. One of the challenges we have with the bill 
before us--by the way, a bill where I would like to see us deal with 
the immigration issue. The system is broken. It needs to be changed. 
Clearly, we know that. We all know that.

We have had a group of Senators on both sides of the aisle, from a 
broad political spectrum, come together to try to find some common 
ground, to try to deal with the issue of strengthened border security, 
which we must deal with--to do those things--to ensure greater employer 
responsibility, and then to figure out some way to deal with the 11 
million who are here, to know who they are, have them learning English, 
have them pay taxes, and not to provide amnesty but to provide fines 
and a series of sanctions and a path before one can even consider 
proceeding to something like citizenship.

But one of the problems we are having--I am having it now. I have 
gotten thousands of calls on this issue, most against this bill, even 
though people have not even read the bill yet. I think it is, in part, 
because folks do not trust us, do not trust the Federal Government to 
do what we say we are going to do. They do not trust us to absolutely 
uphold the rule of law. They do not believe when we say we are going to 
secure our borders that we are actually going to do it.

In many ways, this issue I raise today is a rule of law issue. If we 
tell people across America that in sanctuary cities the rule of law 
does not apply when it comes to immigration, how are we going to get 
the American public to believe we are serious about border security--
when we then try to figure out a way to do a guest worker program, to 
deal with the 11 million who should come out of the shadows into the 
sunlight?

I suggest by supporting this amendment what you are doing is 
supporting respect for the rule of law. We need to do more of that to 
gain the trust and the confidence of the American people.

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.

Mr. President, with that I yield the floor.