---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `b759f6b1b9e6a6601c2946579a40e833`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I extend my time to respond to two 
things my friend from Alabama, Senator Sessions--one of my two friends 
from Alabama, Senator Sessions, mentioned.

The first is the good news from the Missile Defense Program of the 
successful test last Friday. We wish we did not have to spend money 
building a missile defense, but the truth is that the number of powers, 
including a lot of hostile anti-American countries that have the 
capacity to fire missiles at us and our allies, carrying both 
conventional weapons and potentially weapons of mass destruction, is 
increasing and has increased.

The creation of this program has been controversial. The funding of 
it is controversial. But I believe, just as deeply as anyone can 
believe anything, that we will, particularly as we hear the success of 
the testing, look back on the investments we have made in this program 
and be very thankful we did it because it will protect the security of 
the United States from attack via a missile from the enemies that exist 
to our country and to our values.

I wish to just briefly echo what Senator Sessions said about General 
Pace, who has just ended his time as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff. I put an extensive statement in the Record last week without 
being on the floor. I just say now that this is a good man, a patriot 
who has served his country with a tremendous sense of excellence, of 
bravery, of honor, taking on risks and burdens to himself for the 
defense of America.

When he was appointed and confirmed as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff, there were two pieces of history, two firsts. We are a 
country that loves firsts because when people do something for the 
first time, it talks about the increasing openness, the reality of what 
we call the American dream. The one that was greatly commented on was 
Peter Pace was the first marine to become Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff. That was a historic first. The other--perhaps less commented 
on but a great story of America--Pete Pace was the first Italian 
American to be Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff--yet another 
extraordinary accomplishment and act of service to our country from its 
Italian-American community.

Pete Pace served during a difficult time. He served with honor and 
integrity. He was intensely devoted to the men and women who serve all 
of us, and their families. He has maintained the fighting edge of our 
military going through a very difficult time, oversaw two extraordinary 
victories in Afghanistan and Iraq and then the post-Saddam war 
increasingly against al-Qaida in Iran and Iraq--very difficult times. 
But he leaves office now at a moment when, obviously thanks to the 
skill and bravery of the American military, there are some reasons for 
encouragement in Iraq, good reasons.

I thank General Pace, his wife, and his family for their service to 
America. We wish them well in the years ahead.















 Amendment No. 3058


Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of the amendment offered by 
Senator Kennedy and Senator Mikulski and others, including myself, 
which will be voted on later today. This amendment would bring some 
commonsense reforms to the process by which agencies decide whether to 
outsource Federal jobs to contractors.

Sometimes, obviously, it makes a lot of sense for agencies to turn to 
contractors because they are able to perform certain functions more 
efficiently than the agencies could themselves. That is in everybody's 
interest, including the taxpayers'. However, in many cases, experience 
has shown Federal employees can perform the work just as efficiently or 
more efficiently than the contractors and deserve the right to bid when 
work is proposed to be outsourced. Additionally, agencies must ensure 
that inherently governmental work--in other words, work which is 
intimately related to the public interest--is performed by Federal 
employees and not by private contractors. That is why the Government 
was created.

The process for deciding when to outsource jobs has to be a careful 
one, it has to be fair to contractors, and it has to be fair to Federal 
employees. Of course, it has to be fair, most of all, to America's 
taxpayers.

The Kennedy amendment provides Federal employees the same right 
contractors currently possess to appeal outsourcing decisions. In other 
words, when a particular function is proposed for outsourcing, open to 
bidding by private contractors, there is a process--and a good one--
that has been created where Federal employees themselves may bid 
against those contractors for that outsourcing work. What the Kennedy 
amendment says is Federal employees should have the same rights 
contractors have to appeal outsourcing decisions. Why just have one of 
the competitors for the outsourcing have the right to appeal and the 
other one does not? To me, that is simply a fundamental issue of 
fairness.

The amendment also contains a provision to ensure that contractors 
competing for Department of Defense work do not receive an unfair 
advantage because they offer inferior health or retirement benefits to 
what we are offering to Federal employees. I do not think any Member of 
this Chamber would want employees of the Department of Defense to be at 
a disadvantage in competing for their jobs because they receive health 
and retirement benefits that we authorize and ordain from the Federal 
Government.

This amendment also addresses a concern I have had for quite a long 
time; that is, it sometimes appears as if the Office of Management and 
Budget pushes agencies to meet arbitrary numerical targets for the 
outsourcing of jobs. Decisions on outsourcing should be made on a case-
by-case basis where it makes sense for agencies to outsource the jobs 
as opposed to giving them a quota of outsourcing and say they have to 
hit that quota.

Arbitrary numerical targets, I am afraid, take agencies off the path 
of pursuing other means of cutting costs. They overtax agencies already 
struggling to monitor work performed by contractors. I believe they 
sometimes, without cause, undermine the civil service, which we ought 
to be elevating as it is elevated in so many of the other 
industrialized developed democracies. Those types of numerical targets 
were prohibited by Congress in the fiscal year 2003 Omnibus 
appropriations bill, but the Office of Management and Budget seems to 
be continuing to pressure agencies to conduct competitions between 
Federal employees and contractors on a certain number of jobs each 
year. That is not right. The amendment before us makes clear that use 
of such quotas at the Department of Defense is impermissible.

These are all, in my opinion, sensible, modest reforms. They do not 
and they are not intended to prohibit the outsourcing of Federal jobs, 
which I support when it makes sense, but, rather, ensure that the 
process is objective, fair. It essentially puts both parties here on a 
level playing field.

The core provisions of this amendment have, in fact, received 
bipartisan support in the Senate over the last few years. I hope we can 
continue that support when the amendment comes to the vote today.

I yield the floor.