---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `b75c8fff7d75c372063dc6aba59ee946`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. I thank the distinguished chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee.

Mr. Speaker, when the President vetoed this bill, he said it was 
because he felt that decisions like this should be left to the 
military, not the politicians. But Mr. Speaker, the fact is that when 
the President declared that Iraq was part of the global war on 
terrorism, there was not one single military officer who agreed. That 
was a political decision made in the White House to go into this war. 
Had he listened to the military, we wouldn't be in this war.

Mr. Speaker, the fact is that none of us have been asked to sacrifice 
anything in pursuit of this war. The sacrifice has fallen exclusively 
on the backs of our military and their families.

Mr. Speaker, this week, the 2,108th child was told that they will 
never see their mommy or daddy again because they will never return 
from Iraq. How many more children have to lose their parents before 
this policy is reversed, Mr. Speaker? 3,351 American soldiers have lost 
their lives. More than 24,000 have been seriously wounded. This past 
month, more than 100 soldiers lost their lives, the deadliest month on 
record.

Things are getting worse rather than better.

The British Broadcasting Corporation and the American Broadcasting 
Corporation just completed an extensive survey of Iraqis. It turns out 
that 82 percent have lost confidence in U.S. policy in Iraq, that 86 
percent have lost a member of their household due to violence, and the 
majority feel that this policy is ineffective, and in fact, they were 
better off under Saddam Hussein than under the American occupation.

Mr. Speaker, the State Department just reported that the number of 
terrorist incidents has gone up by 25 percent, most of them in Iraq.

This policy has been a failure. I urge a rejection of the President's 
veto of this bill. This bill will set the course that the American 
people are demanding.