# None
## `b75d92ee62331f3948d71e5ee0ee3048`
`Mr. LEAHY — 18 December 2010`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I know in a couple of hours we will be 
voting on repeal of don't ask, don't tell, now that we have been able 
to go past the filibuster of it. I wish to speak about that for a few 
minutes.

While partisan rancor seems to have seized the Senate on so many 
occasions this year, on at least this one count I am encouraged and I 
am hopeful. There is yet sufficient bipartisan agreement to repeal the 
discriminatory don't ask, don't tell policy before this Congress ends. 
I commend the Senators who have pledged to support the repeal. Of 
course I renew my own commitment in support of the effort. It is well 
past time to put an end to this discriminatory and harmful policy.

Today, in the Senate, the stage is set again for one of the major 
civil rights victories of our lifetimes. Years from now I hope 
historians will have good cause to remember that today is the day when 
the two parties overcame superficial differences to advance the pursuit 
of equal rights for all Americans. After much effort and just as much 
study and discussion, the Senate will finally proceed to an up-or-down 
vote on repealing this counterproductive policy.

For too long we have said let's vote maybe, we are not quite ready 
for a vote, let's get the filibuster going. I think most Americans 
expect Senators--after all there are only 100 of us--they expect us to 
come here and either vote yes or vote no, not vote maybe. A filibuster 
is voting maybe. To Senators who keep saying I want to think about it 
more, I want to go longer--we have had years of study. This afternoon 
it is time for every man and woman in this body to step forward and 
vote either yes or no. For those who still harbor concerns that 
enacting this repeal would somehow harm readiness, one simple fact is 
the clearest answer. Gay and lesbian Americans already serve honorably 
in the U.S. Armed Forces and they have always done so. There is no 
doubt that they have served in the military since the earliest days of 
the Republic. The only reason they could do so, then and now, even 
under today's discriminatory policy, is because they display the same 
conduct and professionalism that we expect from all our men and women 
in uniform. They are no different from anyone else. They should be 
treated no differently. As one combat veteran said: I don't care 
whether the soldier next to me is straight or not; I care whether he 
can shoot straight or not.

In ending this policy we are bringing to an end years of forced 
discriminatory and corrosive secrecy. Giving these troops the right to 
serve openly, allowing them to be honest about who they are, will not 
cause disciplined servicemembers to suddenly become distracted on the 
battlefield. It is pandering to suggest that they would be.

But that is not only my view. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, 
Admiral Mullen, has said time and time again that this is the right 
thing to do, that it will not harm our military readiness.

Gay soldiers and straight soldiers have fought and died for our 
country throughout the history of this country. Gay soldiers and 
straight soldiers have fought and died for our country in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I think of one of the editorial cartoons showing parents 
at a military graveyard and they are looking at the grave of their son. 
One says, ''They didn't ask.'' And the other said, ''They didn't 
tell.''

Look at this--three coffins draped in flags. The caption is, ''Which 
is the gay one?''

Like so many other Senators, I have walked on a quiet day through the 
graveyard at Arlington National Cemetery. I have seen dates going back 
long before I was born. I see people who have died in our world wars, 
died in Korea, died in Vietnam, who die now in Iraq and Afghanistan. I 
look at the names--some from my own State--and like everybody else who 
walks through, I think of the sacrifice of these people and the 
sacrifice of their families, the life that would not be lived, the 
children who might not know a parent, the brother who might not know a 
sister or sister who might not know a brother, parents who are burying 
their child. Of course in the natural order, children bury their 
parents. Here, parents have buried their child.

Does anybody look at those graves and say: Move this one because we 
just found out that soldier who died in battle was gay? If anybody 
asked to do that there would be an uproar in this country. So I ask why 
any question about them serving? Every member of our armed services 
should be judged solely on his or her contribution to the mission. 
Repealing don't ask, don't tell will ensure that we stay true to the 
principles on which our great Nation was founded.

We ask our troops to protect freedom around the globe. Isn't it time 
that we protect their basic freedoms and equal rights here at home? 
Throughout our history the Senate has shown its ability to reflect and 
illuminate the Nation's deepest ideals and the Nation's conscience. It 
is my hope the Senate will rise to this occasion by breaking through 
the partisan din and proceed to debate, as we have, and now vote on 
repealing the discriminatory and counterproductive policy.

I see my good friend and neighbor from across the Connecticut river, 
Senator Shaheen, and I see my friend and colleague--I apologize, I did 
not see him--the Senator from South Dakota. I know he is waiting. I 
will yield to him. It is my understanding Senator Shaheen will be 
recognized after Senator Thune.

I yield the floor.