# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `b761193c3cf758718aa447848503d5c3`
`Mr. RUSH — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. RUSH. Madam Speaker, I raise today to voice my support for this 
resolution. For too long now, under a Republican-controlled Congress 
and a Republican-controlled Senate, the President has been given a free 
hand and a blank check to conduct this war in Iraq, for far too long 
without any oversight, for far too long without any accountability from 
this the equal branch of government, this U.S. Congress. Madam Speaker, 
and because of the Republicans' unwillingness and the Democrats' 
inability to question the President or his administration about the 
conduct of this war, we now find ourselves embroiled in a civil war on 
a foreign soil.

We are not seen as liberators. We are seen as an occupying force on a 
foreign land. We are seen as an occupying army by the Iraqi people. 
Madam Speaker, we are trapped in a deadly situation where American 
soldiers and Iraqi citizens are targeted for murder, mayhem and 
maiming.

Many of our top generals and experts in this field have testified 
that the American troop presence is the biggest, largest, most 
provocative catalyst to the violence in Iraq. The Iraqi people are very 
suspicious of this administration and the motives of this President. 
And they do not view foreign soldiers in their cities, in their towns, 
in their homes as something that they desire.

So if the Iraqi people no longer want us in their country, and if the 
military objective, which was supposed to be the toppling of Saddam 
Hussein has been achieved, then why do we still have hundreds of 
thousands of our troops there?

Why on Earth are we sending more troops to this unstable and volatile 
area when it is obvious that the solution to this problem is not a 
military one, but a political one?

Madam Speaker, if we want to get out of this hole, then we must first 
stop digging. It is well past time for this President to finally 
understand that he cannot solve the world's problems with brute force, 
the American military, and our boys' and girls' lives. We must begin a 
serious and political and diplomatic effort in this region to hold the 
Iraq Government responsible for protecting its own people and to 
solicit comments from Iraq's neighbors as well as our friends and 
allies around the world to help stabilize Iraq and to rebuild that 
devastated country.

The Iraqi people do not want to see more American troops coming into 
their homes and into their cities. They want their chosen, duly elected 
leaders to step up to the plate and to protect them as they were 
elected to do. And they want their foreign occupiers to leave their 
homeland.

Madam Speaker, this is not hard to comprehend. Would we not want the 
same thing if a foreign military came and occupied our cities, our 
States, our Nation, our homes?

This war is draining American resources and stretching our military 
to the point where we will be unable to protect ourselves against any 
real threat to our national security. We know that to date over 3,000 
American soldiers have lost their lives in Iraq, and more than $500 
billion has been appropriated for this unjust and this misguided war.

Yet dispute these costs, neither the American people nor this 
Congress has been given a reasonable explanation or reasonable grounds 
for keeping American troops in Iraq to do the job that Iraqi soldiers 
should be doing for themselves.



Madam Speaker, because of our grave missteps, our enormous 
miscalculation, the situation in Iraq has steadily declined. And there 
is no evidence that increasing the number of American soldiers at this 
point will do anything other than provide more targets to the Iraqi 
insurgents and make the situation in Iraq even more volatile.

Madam Speaker, after being wrong on so many counts time and time 
again, I believe the stakes in this war are too high for us to continue 
to put blind trust in this administration. The world in which we live 
deserves more

Madam Speaker, I am against this troop surge because the American 
people and the Iraqi people want truth surge. They want strategy, not 
more of the same.

It is the job and the responsibility of this Congress to reflect the 
will of the people who have put us here, and demand that the 
Administration bring an end to this ill-fated war, not escalate it.

Believe me, Madam Speaker, it brings me no pleasure to have this 
debate and publicly disagree with the President, but my solemn oath to 
my constituents, as well as my conscience and integrity prevent me from 
doing anything less.

It is time for us to end our occupation in Iraq. I urge all of my 
colleagues to join me in supporting H. Con. Res. 63.