# None
## `b76611344e24177fc0499f30a395216f`
`Mr. FILNER — 5 November 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Again, I am proud to bring to the floor another motion, another 
resolution, another action that will help us understand and better 
appreciate the contributions of our veterans from many wars. I want to 
thank Congressman Frank Pallone from New Jersey, who offers this 
resolution, and it will recognize our Nation's veterans for their 
sacrifice to our country.

Currently, brave men and women who are fighting in missions 
throughout the world, including in Iraq and Afghanistan, do not have an 
exact avenue to let us know what has occurred or let us know how to 
appreciate or spread that appreciation to others in our society. This 
resolution will provide an avenue to educate our children about the 
sacrifice our servicemembers and their families are making.

Veterans Educate Today's Students Day will designate November 10 as 
VETS Day that would call for teachers, civic leaders, and veterans to 
carry out programs to educate children about the service of our 
Nation's veterans and their sacrifice. VETS Day is a day students can 
be taught to appreciate that because of our Nation's veterans we are 
able to enjoy the many freedoms that we take for granted. VETS Day 
should be the day we highlight veterans' service, American freedoms and 
pass on to our children our American ideals. This is why I urge all my 
colleagues to join me in support of H. Con. Res. 60.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.