# None
## `b76a3832ccace579f8356c55c6523a74`
`Mr. McCAIN — 3 February 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Now, one of the unfortunate things, and this is beginning 
to be appreciated by the American people, is that Members of Congress 
couldn't resist the temptation to load this bill with hundreds of 
millions of dollars in unnecessary spending, that will not do anything 
to stimulate the economy. We all know some of these, but they bear 
repeating, that have been included under the guise of stimulus: $400 
million for STD prevention; $600 million for new cars for the Federal 
Government; $34 million to remodel the Commerce Department headquarters 
here in our Nation's Capital; $25 million to rehabilitate ATV trails; 
$150 million for honeybee insurance; $75 million for smoking cessation; 
and $50 million for the National Endowment for the Arts.

There is no doubt all of those are worthy causes which probably 
deserve our attention, our care and, sometimes, our dollars. But to 
portray them and others as a stimulus to create jobs and to have our 
economy recover, I think flies in the face of reality.

In the Senate bill, we have $100 billion to assist States with 
agricultural losses; $300 million for diesel emission reduction grants; 
$150 million for facility improvements at the Smithsonian Museum; $198 
million for school food service equipment; and $2.9 billion for the 
weatherization assistance program.

There is also $6 billion of wiring for broadband and wireless in 
rural areas. I have always been an advocate of that. But the fact is, 
anyone who is knowledgeable of the difficulties and challenges will 
tell you that it takes years to achieve that goal even if the funds are 
available.

In order to comply with the Congressional Budget Resolution, the 
committee report contains a statement of how the emergency provisions 
contained in the bill meet the criteria for emergency spending. The 
report states, and I quote:




 The bill contains emergency funding for fiscal year 2009 


 for responses to the deteriorating economy, natural disasters 


 and for other needs. The funding recommended herein is 


 related to unanticipated needs and is for situations that are 


 sudden, urgent, and unforeseen, specifically the devastating 


 effects of the economic crisis, natural disasters and rising 


 unemployment.


Perhaps the authors of the bill can explain to me how $150 million 
for honeybee insurance falls within the distinction as outlined in the 
legislation. Someone needs to explain to me how giving tens of millions 
of dollars to the National Endowment of the Arts or the Smithsonian 
Museum will reverse ''the devastating effects of the economic crisis.''

The problem is we are accumulating debt that we are laying upon 
future generations of Americans. We are going to have to pay this debt 
sometime. My great worry is that if we do not account for this debt in 
some way, if we continue trillions of dollars of unnecessary and 
wasteful spending, then obviously we will find ourselves back in the 
situation we were in the 1970s, when we had hyperinflation and had to 
debase the currency.

I want to say a word for a minute about ''Buy American.'' The next 
time I come to debate on the ''Buy American'' provisions, I intend to 
bring a picture of Mr. Smoot and Mr. Hawley, the two individuals who 
were responsible, in the view of historians, for taking a country that 
was in a serious recession into the depths of one of the great 
depressions in the history of the United States.

Because as we enact protectionist measures, I was interested to hear 
my friend from North Dakota, Senator Dorgan, say it was not in 
violation of any treaty. It is in violation of several treaties. It is 
in violation of what has been an important aspect of America's policy 
which has been free and open trade.

I guess the fundamental difference I have between the authors of the 
''Buy American'' provisions and myself is that I believe the most 
productive, the most innovative, and the strongest and best workers in 
the world reside in the United States of America, that the innovations 
and technology that have led the world have come from the United States 
of America, and that our products can compete anywhere in the world 
under free and open trade conditions.

Now, there have been violations on the part of other countries. That 
is why we are members of the WTO. That is why there are provisions in 
the North American Free Trade Agreement that should be vigorously 
pursued when there are violations and protectionist activities on the 
part of any nation of which we are participants in trade agreements.

If there are specific violations, then those violations should be 
addressed. But I wanted to emphasize, if we pass these ''Buy American'' 
provisions, you will find other nations retaliating and you will find 
us on a sure but unfortunate path to the exacerbation of our economic 
difficulties. That is a matter of history. Consult any historian. I 
hope we will not keep these ''Buy American'' provisions in whatever 
legislation we arrive at.

This bill contains protectionist ''Buy America'' provisions that will 
prove harmful to both the American worker and the world economy. The 
Senate version of the stimulus bill goes beyond the stark protectionism 
of its House counterpart in a way that risks serious damage to our 
economy. The Senate bill requires that major projects funded in the 
bill favor American-made steel, iron, and manufacturing over goods 
produced abroad. These anti-trade measures may sound welcome to 
Americans who are hurting in this economy and faced with the specter of 
layoffs. The United States, after all, produces the world's finest 
products. Yet shortsighted protectionist measures risk greatly 
exacerbating our current economic woes. Already, one economist at the 
Peterson Institute for International Economics has calculated that the 
''Buy American'' provisions in this bill will cost more jobs than it 
will generate. Some of our largest trading partners, including Canada 
and the European Union, have warned that such a move could invite 
protectionist retaliation, further harming our ability to generate jobs 
and economic growth.

We have seen this tendency before. In the 1930s, as depression swept 
the globe, countries around the world enacted protectionist legislation 
in a counterproductive effort to preserve jobs at home, at the expense 
of those abroad. It was a fool's errand, and the result was the largest 
and most prolonged economic downturn of the 20th century. We know 
better now, and we must have the foresight and the courage to do what 
is right.

I am very concerned about the potential impact these ''Buy America'' 
policies will have on bilateral trade relations with our allies. From a 
philosophical point of view, I oppose this type of protectionist trade 
policy, not only because I believe free trade to be an important means 
of improving relations among all nations, but it is essential to U.S. 
economic growth. Moreover, from a practical standpoint, the added ''Buy 
America'' restrictions in this stimulus bill could seriously impair our 
ability to compete freely in the international markets and could also 
result in loss of existing business from long-standing trading 
partners.



Let me be clear. I am not against U.S. procurement of American 
products. The United States, without a doubt produces the very best 
products in the world, this certainly is the case with American-made 
defense products. In fact, a Department of State study reported that 
U.S. defense companies sold more weapons and defense products and 
claimed a larger share of the world market than was previously 
realized. This study shows U.S. exports of defense products increased 
to nearly $49 billion in 2006, comprising nearly 70 percent of global 
exports. This number continues to rise steadily. Furthermore, I believe 
that competition and open markets among our allies on a reciprocal 
basis would provide the best equipment at the best prices for the 
taxpayers and U.S. and allied militaries alike.

Congress can continue to protect U.S. industries from foreign 
competition for selfish, special interest reasons, or we can loosen 
these restrictions to provide necessary funds to ensure our economy can 
return to the strength it once had. ''Buy America'' policy in defense 
spending is particularly harmful and costly. Every dollar we spend on 
archaic procurement policies, like ''Buy America,'' is a dollar we 
cannot spend on training our troops, keeping personnel quality of life 
at an appropriate level, maintaining force structure, replacing old and 
worn-out weapon systems, and advancing our military technologies. It is 
my sincere hope that legislative provisions like ''Buy America'' in the 
stimulus bill are dropped and that Congress will end once and for all 
the anticompetitive, antifree trade practices that encumber our 
Government, the military, and U.S. industry.

In addition to the ''Buy America'' language contained in both the 
House and Senate stimulus bills, other policy provisions have been 
included in this legislation. Many of these items are nothing more than 
typical policy riders that will do nothing to stimulate the economy and 
create jobs. Most are partisan provisions that were added to this bill 
because it is considered to be ''must-pass'' legislation. They should 
not be included in any type of stimulus legislation and should instead 
go through the regular legislative process and subjected to necessary 
debate. Some examples of these policy riders include requiring the 
Transportation Security Administration to buy 100,000 employee uniforms 
from U.S. textile plants, legislation to give Federal workers new 
whistleblower protections, and legislative language favoring open 
access, or net-neutrality, that telecoms have long opposed.

Additionally, both bills contain wasteful Davis-Bacon provisions that 
mandate artificially high wage rates, based on faulty data, for its 
Federal construction spending. These rates are determined by the 
Secretary of Labor to be the prevailing wages in the geographic 
locality of the project for similar crafts and skills on comparable 
construction work. A report by the Department of Labor found that the 
wage surveys on which the prevailing wages are based are inaccurate. 
DOL's inspector general submitted a report to Congress that noted that 
a contractor hired by DOL found ''one or more errors in nearly 100 
percent of the wage reports we reviewed.'' The error rates were high 
even after a more than $20 million effort to fix the surveys. In 
addition to outright errors, the inspector general noted that DOL used 
faulty methodology from unscientific surveys that led to bias, and even 
the data it did collect was untimely and, therefore, suspect.

The Davis-Bacon Act is an outmoded, depression-era, inflationary 
policy that, according to recent estimates, will inflate the 
construction costs of this bill by $17 billion. If we are trying to 
create new jobs then we should repeal Davis-Bacon, not encourage its 
expansion in this bill. Davis-Bacon imposes heavy regulatory burdens 
and unnecessary costs on Government contractors--not to mention the 
taxpayers who have to foot the bill for the inflated costs. 
Furthermore, Davis-Bacon makes it more difficult for entry level job 
seekers, the unemployed, and the unskilled to obtain work.

A recent study noted that ''contrary to its purpose, the Davis-Bacon 
Act distorts construction labor markets. Davis-Bacon wages bear little 
relation to market wages, because the Government's prevailing wage 
estimates are wildly inaccurate. In some cities, Davis-Bacon rates are 
much higher than market wages. In Long Island, New York, for example, 
market rates for plumbers are $29.68 an hour. Davis-Bacon rates, 
however, are $44.75 an hour, 51 percent more than what the markets 
demand. In other cities, Davis-Bacon wages are significantly below 
market rates. For instance, Davis-Bacon rates for carpenters and 
plumbers in Sarasota, FL, are $6.55 an hour, a figure below Florida's 
minimum wage of $7.21. Nationwide, Davis-Bacon rates average 22 percent 
above market wages and inflate the cost of Federal construction by 10 
percent.'' Mr. President, decent, livable wages are important for every 
American--but imposing harmful, outdated Davis-Bacon requirements on 
Federal construction projects will do nothing more than bloat the cost 
of this bill, suppress new construction hires, and depress the economy.

I want to say a few words about the proposal that I and a group of 
other Senators have presented today and will be proposing as we go 
through this debate. Basically in the category of taxes, it would 
eliminate the 3.1-percent payroll tax for all American employees, lower 
the tax bracket from 10 percent to 5 percent, lower the 15-percent tax 
bracket to 10 percent, lower corporate tax brackets from 35 to 25, 
lower tax brackets to 25 from 35 to small businesses, and help provide 
for accelerated depreciation for capital investment. The total cost of 
that provision would be $275 billion.

It would also extend the unemployment insurance benefits, extend food 
stamps, unemployment insurance benefits would be made tax free, and 
training and employment services for dislocated workers would be 
provided at the cost of $50 billion.

There would be housing provisions. Let me emphasize to my colleagues 
what we all know: It was the housing crisis that began this 
conflagration and it will be the stabilization of home values that ends 
it.

My friend from Nevada here and others have been working hard to try 
to address the housing crisis. In our respective States, obviously, the 
housing crisis is of the utmost severity, as it is throughout the 
country. But in high-growth areas of the country such as ours, it is 
even more severe. We have seen even more dramatic reductions in home 
values.

So our primary goal, my friends, is that we must stabilize home 
values if we are going to reverse this deep and precipitous slide we 
are seeing and the difficulties we are experiencing in our economy.

Among other proposals, $11 billion would require the Federal 
Government to allocate funding to increase the fee that servicers 
receive from continuing a mortgage and avoiding foreclosure from a one-
time fee of $1,000 up to $60 per month for the life of the loan.

Safe harbor provisions remove the legal constraints inhibiting 
modifications; tax incentives for home purchases; the tax credit in the 
amount of $15,000 or 10 percent of the purchase price, whichever is 
less, with the option to utilize all in 1 year, or spread out over 2 
years, and GSE and FHA conforming loan limits. This cost would be 
around $32 billion.

We should invest in our national infrastructure and defense. We 
should spend $9 billion to improve, repair, and modernize Department of 
Defense facilitates, restore and modernize barracks, improve facilities 
and infrastructure directly supporting the readiness and training of 
the Armed Forces, and invest in the energy efficiency of Department of 
Defense facilities. This activity would generate construction and 
craftsmen jobs in the short term by addressing deteriorating conditions 
of existing facilities for projects that are ready to be carried out in 
the next 9 months.

As to the resetting our combat forces, the Department of Defense will 
be requesting emergency supplemental appropriations in the spring of 
2009 to support the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Inclusion of 
this in the stimulus accelerates those requirements and will be used to 
place new orders or to repair vehicles, equipment, material, ammunition 
required to fully equip our combat units, while generating jobs on 
assembly and manufacturing lines around the country.



I urge my colleagues to think about, if we are going to provide 
funds, that our defense needs are great, of the equipment that has been 
worn out in Iraq and will again be required to be used in Afghanistan. 
Obviously all of us who have visited our military installations know 
there are facilities that need to be modernized, restored, and new 
construction. We propose $70 billion for road and bridge 
infrastructure, road and bridges on Federal land, public transit and 
airport infrastructure and improvements, and $1 billion for a small 
business loan program. The total estimated cost for investing in our 
infrastructure: $88 billion.

Finally, we need to require these spending programs in the stimulus 
bill be sunset 3 years from enactment. If this spending is intended to 
restore our economy and jump-start it, once the economy is jump-started 
and restored, then we should not have to continue this spending and 
increase the size of our debt and lay it on future generations of 
Americans.

This proposal states that after two consecutive quarters of economic 
growth greater than 2 percent of inflation-adjusted GDP, the following 
control mechanisms will trigger to reduce the deficit and promote long-
term economic growth: All spending provisions in the economic stimulus 
legislation where funds have not been spent or obligated will be 
cancelled and permanently rescinded. The budget baselines shall be 
adjusted downward to ensure that all spending in the stimulus, whether 
spent or cancelled, is treated as a one-time expenditure and not 
assumed to be repeated.

What a lot of Americans do not know is every time we add a spending 
provision, that becomes part of the baseline, which assumes that that 
money will be spent over time. We cannot continue that indefinitely. We 
propose a 2-percent across-the-board reduction in spending, with the 
goal of balancing the budget by 2015.

We should establish two separate entitlement commissions, one to make 
recommendations on systems and the other Medicare-Medicaid. We all know 
the elephant in the room is Social Security and Medicare, and the 
unfunded liabilities associated with it. We should also require 
recipients to disclose costs for awarded projects, prohibit stimulus 
funds from being used for lobbying activities, political contributions, 
holiday parties, unnecessary renovations, and questionable travel.

We should spend some more money on accountability, transparency, 
oversight, and results. We should create a recovery and accountability 
and transparency board with a Web site, create a Congressional 
oversight panel, establish a recovery and reinvestment oversight board 
composed of Federal agency heads, require review and audits by the 
Comptroller General on the bill's effectiveness in achieving economic 
and workforce recovery goals, and establish a special inspector general 
modeled after the oversight required for TARP. The total is $445 
billion. I think this is a balanced proposal and one that I hope 
deserves the serious consideration of this body.

I want to say a word about TARP. The American people have been 
dissatisfied with the results, and Members of this body have been as 
well. In the first round of $350 billion, it seemed that the priorities 
seemed to change literally on a daily or weekly basis.

It became unclear as to exactly what that $350 billion was going to 
do, and, apparently, if you look at all of the statistics, it has not 
resulted in significant improvement.

Now, what would have happened without it will be a matter of 
conjecture and analysis by economists and historians. Now we are in the 
second round. Now we are told there may need to be more, another TARP, 
after we pass this stimulus legislation and an omnibus appropriations 
bill.

When we start totaling that, we are talking about several trillion 
dollars, and we can't continue that without the American people 
experiencing some tangible results. Most Members of this body are in 
agreement. We need to stimulate and jump-start the economy. Let's not 
do it in such a way that our children and grandchildren pay for it in 
the most painful and difficult manner. We owe that to them.

I yield the floor.