---
---

# RECOGNIZING EFFORTS OF WELCOME BACK VETERANS
## `b77609d0044617221d15a548b327ffe9`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 8 December 2010`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. I thank my good friend and former Long Islander, now from 
Indiana, for his leadership and for recognizing me.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution which I had the 
privilege of introducing and sponsoring. I want to thank the leaders, 
members and staff of the Armed Services Committee and the Veterans' 
Affairs Committee for their support and cooperation on this vitally 
important resolution.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution recognizes the efforts of Welcome Back 
Veterans in providing critically needed treatment for PTSD to veterans 
and active members of the Armed Forces. Welcome Back Veterans is a 
partnership with Major League Baseball Charities, the Entertainment 
Industry Foundation and the McCormick Foundation. They are creating a 
network of university hospitals to address the mental health needs of 
our servicemembers and their families.

To date, Welcome Back Veterans has raised over $12 million in private 
funding to support the treatment and research of PTSD through grants to 
other service organizations and has provided treatment to over 5,000 
veterans and active duty servicemembers. They have a broad and 
integrated and innovative approach towards PTSD. And they should, 
because PTSD is known as a ''silent killer.'' One of out of every five 
veterans from Afghanistan and Iraq has been affected. It doesn't always 
have physical symptoms that are easily recognized. It impacts not just 
the servicemember but the family member, loved ones, children. 
Servicemembers and veterans with PTSD are at a higher risk for other 
challenges, such as depression; higher risk of alcohol and drug abuse; 
six times more likely to commit suicide than people without PTSD.

Mr. Speaker, this is a massive problem and it requires a massive 
response. It's not just the response from the VA and the Department of 
Defense. They are on the front lines of helping those who have been on 
the front lines with PTSD. But it's got to go even broader and deeper 
than that. We need partners. We need university hospitals. We need good 
philanthropic organizations like Major League Baseball Charities and 
the Entertainment Industry Foundation and the McCormick Foundation. 
They have assembled a team that is addressing this critical need, and 
this resolution encourages the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to not 
only support that team but continue to build and expand the public-
private partnerships that will make sure that anybody that we send into 
combat or into the military theater or into the Department of Defense 
who comes back with PTSD has access to treatment and cures.

I want to thank the gentleman again for his leadership.