# AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b7778e7c1a8c6917e2392e7c60010276`
`Mr. MICHAUD — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. MICHAUD. Mr. Chairman, I want to give just one example why this 
investment is important to our Nation.

The Module Ballistic Protection System, developed at the University 
of Maine, is made of light, strong-as-metal wood composite panels that 
are inserted into tents to protect our soldiers over in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. This life-saving technology would not have been possible 
without the initial investment from the wood utilization funding.

In fact, this funding spurred advances in many different industries. 
It creates jobs and, in some cases, it will save American lives. This 
funding benefits the entire Nation.

I urge the rejection of the gentleman's amendment.

I rise in strong opposition to the gentleman from Arizona's 
amendment.

Investment in Wood Utilization Research at these locations including 
the University of Maine supports education and economic development 
across our country.

The funding encourages students to pursue careers in advanced wood 
science and engineering at a time when international competition in 
these fields is growing. This type of research is important to a 
growing number of industrial applications and to our national economy.

At U-Maine, every dollar appropriated to the Center generates an 
additional $7 in economic output. The research has promoted important 
advances in fields as diverse and important as biofuels and advanced 
wood composites.

I want to highlight one program in particular that was born from this 
funding. The Modular Ballistic Protection System, developed at the U-
Maine Advanced Engineered Wood Composites Center, is a series of 
lightweight, strong-as-metal, wood composite panels that are inserted 
into tents to protect our soldiers from mortars and other incoming fire 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. This lifesaving technology would not have been 
possible without the initial investment from the Wood Utilization 
funding.

I appreciate the gentleman's intent but I believe it is misguided. In 
offering these kinds of amendments, the gentleman has frequently asked: 
what is the federal interest?

Well, in this case, it is clear. This is a project with national 
implications that helps our competitiveness, our industries, and our 
national defense. It is an investment that the federal government 
should be making so that America can lead the way in a variety of 
important R&D fields, create jobs, and in some cases, save American 
lives.

We do not pick any winners and losers here with this project--in 
fact, we all win with this research. So I urge the rejection of the 
gentleman's amendment.