---
---

# COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007
## `b796b939869c784ced4c180e5af979b7`
`Mr. BIDEN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Madam President, I share the frustration of my friend from 
Pennsylvania. I remember when my colleague, Senator Byrd, whom I still 
call the leader, was leader when I got here after Senator Mansfield. 
How things have changed in many ways.

One of the things that has changed is what we saw take place today. 
Here the single most critical issue facing the United States of America 
today--the


carnage that is taking place in Iraq, the fact that our blood and 
treasure is being spilled with no apparent end in sight--and the notion 
that we would have to resort to a filibuster to stop a vote when a 
clear majority of Senators who believe there is an urgent need to 
change course in Iraq is not only dismaying but the consequence of it, 
I believe, is to kick the can down the road another 2 to 3 months and, 
in the meantime, many Americans are going to be injured and killed, 
which I believe can be avoided.

Ever since the Democrats took back the Congress, we have been working 
to build pressure on the administration and, quite frankly, a number of 
our Republican colleagues to change course in Iraq because I don't 
believe there are a dozen Republican Senators who agree with the 
President's present position. I don't believe there are a dozen 
Republican Senators who believe the results are going to be 
fundamentally different on September 5 than they are today, although I 
respect the fact that they concluded they want to wait to give the 
President every opportunity to demonstrate his plan can work.

Here is the problem, with all due respect. The problem is we are 
faced with two false choices in the Congress. One is put forward by the 
administration and sustained by a minority of votes that says we should 
continue to do what we are doing and essentially hand off the problem 
to the next President. I don't know anybody who believes that through 
escalating this conflict, adding American forces, there is any 
reasonable prospect that would bring about the only thing that will end 
this war, and that is a political settlement among the Iraqis.

Then there are a number of Democrats who have a view, out of 
frustration, that we must begin to get out of there, get out and hope 
for the best. Their premise is: Look, there isn't any reasonable 
prospect of us being able to do this militarily, and the hope is that 
somehow if we get out, the Iraqis, the Kurds, the Sunnis, and the Shias 
will have a bit of an epiphany, as we Catholics say, that they will get 
together and say: Oh, my goodness, America is leaving and we better get 
together and settle our differences or things are going to completely 
implode.

The fundamental flaw in all of that thinking, in my humble opinion--I 
know I am like a broken record, I have been saying it for over 3 years 
and I laid out a concrete plan over a year ago--the fundamental flaw is 
there is no possibility in the lifetime of any Member of this Senate 
for there to be a coherent central government in Baghdad that has the 
ability to gain the faith and trust of the people of Iraq and the 
ability to govern that country. It will not happen. Mark my words. 
There is no possibility of that happening. Never, to my research, have 
I ever found there has been a situation where there has been a self-
sustaining cycle of sectarian violence, a self-sustaining civil war, 
which is exactly what we have now in Iraq, that it has ever ended in 
any other than one of four ways: a major power goes in and occupies the 
country for a generation or more, not an option available for us, nor 
is it in our DNA to do that. We are not the British Empire; we are not 
the Ottoman Empire; we are not the Persian Empire; nor do we want to 
be.


The second option is: Install a dictator. Wouldn't that be the 
ultimate irony for the United States of America to install a dictator?

The third option: Pick a side. Wage in on one side of the sectarian 
violence, wipe out the other side. That is not a good option. A, it 
would be immoral; B, it would take a couple years and; C, it would 
ignite a Sunni-Shia revolution from the Mediterranean to the Himalayas.

There is a fourth way it can end, and that is establish a federal 
system within the country separating the parties, giving them control 
of the fabric of their daily lives, their own security forces in their 
own neighborhoods, their own laws relating to religion, education, 
marriage, divorce, property, jobs, a federal system.

Coincidentally, that is exactly what the Iraqi Constitution calls for 
in article I. It says: We are a decentralized federal system.

Absent a political settlement, there is no way--I will make the 
prediction I shouldn't make because I have been around here long enough 
to know that everything you say on this floor you are reminded of if 
you turn out to be wrong. If you are right, you are never reminded of 
it. If you turn out to be wrong, you are reminded of it whether it is 6 
months, 12 months or 12 years later.

I honestly believe, absent a radical change in course resulting in a 
federal system existing in Iraq, the only option the next President of 
the United States is going to have is going to be a reenactment of the 
scene in Saigon, with helicopters lifting people off the roofs of the 
embassy in the green zone. That is how it is going to end, in disaster.

Not only do I not want my son who is a captain in the U.S. National 
Guard going to Iraq, I don't want my grandson going or my 
granddaughter. How we leave Iraq, what shape we leave it in, what 
prospect for a political settlement exists will determine whether my 
grandson goes back 15 years from now.

All we did today was take what was originally called the Biden-Hagel, 
et cetera, resolution that we introduced in January, then the Biden-
Levin resolution, then the Levin-Reed-Biden, et al, now the Levin-Reed 
amendment. They all do the same thing. There is not a dime's worth of 
difference.

What they all said was this: Mr. President, the first thing you do 
when you are in a hole is stop digging; stop digging us deeper into 
this disaster. Cease and desist from placing our troops in the midst of 
a civil war. We are in the midst of a civil war. The ''success'' we are 
having in Anbar Province, what is it doing? It is making the Shia 
conclude we are arming and engaging with the Sunnis and the former 
Baathists, making it harder for us to get the Shia to agree to action 
on the oil law, which would be the thing to get the Sunnis to buy into 
a united Iraq.

We are in the midst of a civil war, and the whole thesis of the idea 
we came forward with as early as January and we voted on again today is 
to say: Get out of that civil war. Use American forces for only three 
express purposes: One, train the Iraqi Army; two, deny al-Qaida 
occupation of large swaths of territory, particularly in Anbar 
Province; and three, protect our diplomats there.

I say to my colleagues in the Senate, last week we heard President 
Bush give a progress report on Iraq. It reminded me of a guy who jumps 
off a 100-story building and as he passes the 50th floor, somebody 
yells out: How's it going? And he yells back: So far so good. That is 
the summary of the President's report, except it is not even going well 
so far and the outcome is absolutely certain: continued disaster.

Also, last week, Bob Woodward revealed that back in November, CIA 
Director Michael Hayden made the very point I have been making for 2 
years in a private meeting with the Iraqi Study Group. He said:




 The inability of the central Government to govern is 


 irreversible.


There is ''no milestone or checkpoint where we can turn this thing 
around.'' The CIA then went on to say:




 We have spent a lot of energy and treasure creating a 


 government . . . that cannot function.


What more do we need? I ask my colleagues, what more do you need? Our 
own intelligence community has been saying since last November that the 
inability of the central government to govern is irreversible--
irreversible.


Nothing has happened since General Hayden made his remarks to change 
that assessment. The time now is to stop digging that hole, redeploy 
our forces, save American lives, and begin to push a political 
settlement.

I conclude by saying that yesterday's release of the unclassified key 
judgments of the National Intelligence Estimate on ''The Terrorist 
Threat to the U.S. Homeland'' highlights the urgency of changing our 
course in Iraq. The so-called NIE is a devastating indictment of the 
administration's failure to accomplish its most important mission--
destroying al-Qaida and the threat it poses.

It confirms what was reported last week, that the al-Qaida we failed 
to finish off in Afghanistan and Pakistan, because we went into Iraq, 
has ''regenerated,'' and it remains intent on attacking us at home. 
That should put to rest once and for all this administration's false 
refrain that we are fighting over there so we don't have to fight


them over here. That is rubbish. Our own intelligence, the NIE--that is 
all the intelligence agencies in the U.S. Government--have come to a 
consensus position.

It spotlights the danger posed by al-Qaida in Iraq, a group 
independent but now affiliated with al-Qaida of bin Laden. Al-Qaida in 
Iraq is a Bush-fulfilling prophecy. I will say it again. Al-Qaida in 
Iraq is a Bush-fulfilling prophecy. It did not exist in Iraq prior to 
our invasion. But the failed policies, failure to deal with an 
administrative policy, a political solution, what it does now is to 
help al-Qaida energize extremists around the world, raise money for new 
recruits, and become stronger. All the more reason we must act now to 
refocus our energy and resources on al-Qaida and start to get our 
troops out of Iraq's civil war, while limiting the mission of those who 
remain to denying al-Qaida in Iraq a safe haven.

Finally, I say to my colleagues, regardless of one's view on the war 
and how to end it, there is one commitment each and every one of us 
should make. That commitment is so long as there is a single--a 
single--American troop in Iraq--a single American troop in Iraq--that 
we should do all that is needed to give them the best possible 
protection this country can provide, and the way to start with that is 
to replace the humvees with these mine-resistant vehicles that in our 
last supplemental I was able to convince our colleagues to add 1.7 
billion more dollars to build them. These vehicles have a V-shaped hull 
and they can reduce casualties from roadside bombs up to 80 percent. 
Right now, 70 percent of all the casualties taking place in Iraq is 
because of roadside bombs.

I will offer an amendment to the Defense bill when we get to it to 
make clear, with absolutely no ambiguity, that Congress will provide 
every single dollar needed and every authority necessary to build these 
vehicles as quickly as possible because our kids are dying, and it can 
radically reduce the number of casualties.

I conclude by saying our Republican colleagues say--all of whom I 
respect, but the one I particularly respect is Senator Lugar--that they 
expect the President to voluntarily change course.

I have absolutely no faith, none whatsoever, in this President to 
voluntarily do what should be done. The only way it is going to happen 
is when our Republican friends stop voting with the President and start 
voting to end this war by supporting our troops.

I yield the floor.