# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008--CONFERENCE
## `b7ac8fee39fb22d515ef0f967497a6cd`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, thus far, the Department of the 
Army has acknowledged that there have been 124 incidents of sexual 
assault against contractor and military personnel in Iraq which are 
currently under investigation. We know of only three of those cases 
that are now being considered by the Department of Justice and, 
therefore, the Department of Justice will not respond to my entreaties 
about this investigation because they say it is an ongoing criminal 
investigation.


However, in other cases, we have gathered some facts, and these facts 
have been quite telling. There does not seem to be a standard to 
protect female contractors or military personnel from sexual assault in 
Iraq under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Army. The 124 cases of sexual 
assaults of both contractors and military personnel have been 
acknowledged just under the Department of the Army. The question is, 
under the other branches of the service whose contracts are being 
administered by civilian contractors, how many are there; and are there 
similar cases in the other theater of operations--Afghanistan as well 
as in Iraq?

What we also know from the facts we have gathered thus far is the 
problem is not within the U.S. military nearly so much as it is among 
contractor personnel because there is a nebulous set of regulations as 
to how it is to be handled on the reporting of a rape. Untold numbers 
of sexual assaults have been committed in Iraq, and the Departments of 
Justice, Defense, and State are providing very little information on 
whether they have been prosecuted. It is time we have this information.

Last December, I wrote to the Secretary of Defense asking him to 
launch an investigation by DOD's inspector general into the rape and 
sexual assault cases in both Iraq and Afghanistan. I sent similar 
letters to the Secretary of State regarding the investigations carried 
out under the Bureau of Diplomatic Security, and I requested that the 
Attorney General update me on the status of the related criminal 
investigations. I asked whether and why evidence in the sexual assault 
cases was turned over to the private firms.

I got into this when one of my constituents in Tampa, FL, came forth 
and told about the assault case. This had followed a Texas case that 
had been elevated to the public sphere. Apparently, one of these women 
was assaulted, then went to see the doctor, and a rape kit was prepared 
by the military doctors. That kit would have the evidence of the rape, 
and it was turned over to the civilian contractor. Suddenly, the rape 
kit disappeared.

So the question is, what steps has the Department of Defense taken to 
ensure the full investigation and prosecution of these cases?

In the meantime, the Department of State has told our office that 
diplomatic security has investigated four cases. One of them was the 
Texas lady, and that was where a contractor personnel assaulted another 
contractor personnel. Another involved a State Department employee who 
allegedly assaulted a woman employed by a contractor--in this case KBR. 
Then another case involved two State Department employees. According to 
the State Department, three of the cases were referred to the 
Department of Justice for investigation and possible prosecution.

Recently, our Senate staff met with representatives of the Department 
of Defense IG's office, and we asked them to brief us because of the 
response received from the Department of Defense, which certainly did 
not answer my questions. The inspector general's office stated that, 
and this is what blew our mind, the Army Criminal Investigation Command 
has investigated 124 cases of sexual assault. Now, that is just the 
Army, and that is just in Iraq. And that is just in the 3 years of 
2005, 2006, and 2007. So what about the other services and what about 
Afghanistan?

So this naturally leads me to question whether there could be 
hundreds of additional investigations going on about contractor 
personnel--specifically in the ones that have come to us, it was the 
contractor KBR--and it suggests that perhaps there could be many 
assaults that have not been investigated at all. And because the 
inspector general's office would not provide information on the 
disposition of these investigations, it certainly is unclear whether 
there has been any prosecution of these within the military or the 
criminal justice systems, or whether it has been dealt with 
administratively.

Now, one of my Florida constituents was, and I will use the word 
advisedly, allegedly sexually battered in Iraq in 2005. And although 
the Naval Criminal Investigative Service was supposed to be 
investigating her case, they will not even say anything about the basic 
matters of the case because, the Navy says:




 Law enforcement records are exempt from disclosure at the 


 time requested if it can be reasonably expected to interfere 


 with the enforcement proceedings.


I think we in this Congress, we in the Senate, and those of us on the 
Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee, certainly have an obligation to investigate. Because cases 
such as this can languish far too long without any information from the 
Government coming forth in order to protect these individuals.

So I have asked that our office follow up with the Defense 
Department, with the following detailed questions: The actual numbers 
of the sexual assault cases reported since 2001 in Afghanistan and 
since 2003 in Iraq and the disposition of each case. I have asked to 
have the information of the service components or the Government 
agencies involved in each resulting investigation. I have asked for the 
status of the persons involved in each case--in other words, I want to 
know whether they are Active military, U.S. Government civilian 
employees, contractor employees or are they an Iraqi or Afghani 
national.

I have asked for an explanation of the U.S. jurisdiction or the 
investigative authority for sexual assault allegations in both those 
areas in which we are engaged--Iraq and Afghanistan. And I have asked 
for a clear explanation of the rules, regulations, policies, and 
processes under which sexual assaults are investigated, evidence is 
obtained, and responsible individuals are held accountable. I have also 
asked


for a clear explanation of how the Department of Defense divides 
authority among all its various investigative arms in these sexual 
assault cases.

I have had to ask these questions because DOD and the Department of 
State have not been forthcoming. Yet what is being told by some of 
these assault victims is absolutely horrifying. For example: One female 
contractor employee, during cocktail conversation, suddenly, totally, 
passed out. Apparently, her drink had been spiked. She awoke to find 
out she had been assaulted many times. Upon seeing a military doctor, 
in fact, that was confirmed and the rape kit was prepared. But when the 
rape kit was turned over to the contractor, it amazingly disappeared. 
The evidence disappeared. That contract employee then, upon asking 
questions, was locked in a container and could not get out of the 
container to go and tell her story to other personnel of her 
contractor, and she only got out because she was able to persuade 
someone to let her use a cell phone to call her father back in the 
United States. That is how she got out of her confinement.

Now, if all of that is true, there is simply no excuse for this. But 
what we need to determine is the truth. It is a shame that the senior 
Senator from Florida has to come to the floor of the Senate to elevate 
this issue in order to say to the Department of Defense and the 
Department of State that we want the answers to our questions.

I have asked the questions. I expect, on behalf of the Congress of 
the United States, that we will get the answers.

I yield the floor.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the time during the 
quorum be equally divided between the two sides.