# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `b7adcf7417ba0fbcb822c23d80bb0719`
`Mr. BAYH — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart and deep 
sense of gratitude to honor the life of the brave staff sergeant from 
Indiana. Michael Bechert, 24 years old, died on June 14 from injuries 
sustained on May 30, 2007, in Baghdad, Iraq, when his vehicle 
encountered an improvised explosive device. With his whole life before 
him, Michael risked everything to fight for the values Americans hold 
close to our hearts, in a land halfway around the world.

An Indiana native, Michael last resided in Germany where he met his 
wife Daniela. In addition to his military service, Michael was a 
devoted husband and the father of their 20-month-old boy, Branden. ''He 
was a great father, husband. A young, fresh young man. He fought for 
his country and died for it,'' said Daniela. Along with his wife and 
son, he leaves behind his father Michael L. Bechert and his 
grandparents George and Doris Bechert who raised him.

Michael was assigned to C Company, 1st Battalion, 18th Infantry 
Regiment, 1st Infantry Division in Schweinfurt, Germany. He was killed 
during his second deployment in Iraq, while serving his country in 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. During his first tour of duty he was injured 
and deservingly awarded the Purple Heart.

Today, I join Michael's family and friends in mourning his death. 
While we struggle to bear our sorrow over this loss, we can also take 
pride in the example he set, bravely fighting to make the world a safer 
place. It is his courage and strength of character that people will 
remember when they think of Michael, a memory that will burn brightly 
during these continuing days of conflict and grief.

Michael was known for his dedication to his family and his love of 
country. Today and always, Michael will be remembered by family 
members, friends and fellow Hoosiers as a true American hero, and we 
honor the sacrifice he made while dutifully serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice in honoring Michael's sacrifice, 
I am reminded of President Lincoln's remarks as he addressed the 
families of the fallen soldiers in Gettysburg:




 We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow 


 this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled 


 here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or 


 detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 


 say here, but it can never forget what they did here.


This statement is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, 
as I am certain that the impact of Michael's actions will live on far 
longer that any record of these words.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Michael A. Bechert in the 
Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and for his 
profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. When I think about 
this just cause in which we are engaged, and the unfortunate pain that 
comes with the loss of our heroes, I hope that families like Michael's 
can find comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah who said, ''He will 
swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from 
off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Michael.










Private First Class David A. Wilkey, Jr.


Mr. President, I also rise today with a heavy heart and deep sense of 
gratitude to honor the life of the brave private first class from 
Indiana. David Wilkey, 22 years old, died on June 18th, 2007, from 
injuries sustained on June 17th, in Baghdad, Iraq, when an improvised 
explosive device detonated near his dismounted patrol. With an 
optimistic future before him, David risked everything to fight for the 
values Americans hold close to our hearts, in a land halfway around the 
world.

Although David was extremely proud of his military service, he prided 
himself most on his family. He was a devoted husband to Melinda and 
loving father of 4-year-old stepson Christian Clark and 1-year-old son 
Blayke. They also have another child due in October. David's love for 
his family drove him to enlist, in order to continue his support of 
them. David is also survived by his mother Cindy, his father David Sr., 
stepmother Margaret, as well as two sisters and a brother.

David was on his first deployment in Iraq and had been there since 
February 2007. Assigned to D Company, 1st Battalion, 28th Infantry 
Regiment, 1st Infantry Division, Fort Riley, Kansas, he was killed 
while serving his country in Operation Iraqi Freedom. ''He had a big 
heart, and he's a son that any father could be proud of,'' David Sr. 
said.

Today, I join David's family and friends in mourning his death. While 
we struggle to bear our sorrow over this loss, we can also take pride 
in the example he set, bravely fighting to make the world a safer 
place. It is his courage and strength of character that people will 
remember when they think of David, a memory that will burn


brightly during these continuing days of conflict and grief.

David was known for his dedication to his family and his love of 
country. Today and always, David will be remembered by family members, 
friends and fellow Hoosiers as a true American hero, and we honor the 
sacrifice he made while dutifully serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice in honoring David's sacrifice, I 
am reminded of President Lincoln's remarks as he addressed the families 
of the fallen soldiers in Gettysburg:




 We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow 


 this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled 


 here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or 


 detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 


 say here, but it can never forget what they did here.


This statement is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, 
as I am certain that the impact of David's actions will live on far 
longer that any record of these words.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of David A Wilkey, Jr. in the 
Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and for his 
profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. When I think about 
this just cause in which we are engaged, and the unfortunate pain that 
comes with the loss of our heroes, I hope that families like David's 
can find comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah who said, ''He will 
swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from 
off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with David.
