---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `b7b90fac07a6d9a0b4762a2a6a1bfd76`
`Mr. DODD — 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, about a month ago, Senator John Kerry of 
Massachusetts and I were in the Middle East, and at sundown on an 
evening in Baghdad, as we landed in our helicopter in the Green Zone, a 
young man walked up to Senator Kerry and me. I could hardly see him. He 
was about 6 feet 2 inches, 6 feet 3 inches, a captain, and a West Point 
graduate. He talked to us about his concerns and what was going on in 
Iraq. This was back in the mid part of December before the Christmas 
holidays. His name was Brian Freeman.

The conversation did not last very long. It was not one of those long 
conversations. It may have lasted 15, 20 minutes, at best. I do not 
even have a clear picture in my mind of what he looked like because it 
was dark, as the conversation went on for 15 or 20 minutes. But it is 
one of those meetings all of us have had in our lives, where you do not 
forget a person, an individual. For whatever reason, he was compelling, 
he was sincere. He sought us out. He wanted us to know how he felt 
about what was happening in Iraq.

I mentioned him on ''Meet the Press'' a few weeks later in talking 
about Iraq. I did not mention his name. I did not wish to put him in 
that position. But I talked about this young Army captain, a West Point 
graduate, whom I met. He apparently saw the program in Baghdad and e-
mailed me, and we began this conversation between my office and himself 
over the last month or so, in which we talked about the surge, and he 
talked about the problems associated with it, the jobs he was being 
asked to do.

He said to me--I am quoting him now--




 Senator, it's nuts over here. Soldiers are being asked to 


 do work we're not trained to do. I'm doing work that the 


 State Department people are far more prepared to do in 


 fostering democracy, but they're not allowed to come off the 


 bases because it's too dangerous here. It doesn't make any 


 sense.


CPT Brian Freeman, a West Point graduate, was killed in Iraq last 
Saturday.

I have spoken to his family over the last number of days, his wife 
Charlotte, his two young children, his parents and his in-laws, trying 
to express on behalf,


I am sure, of all us the sense of grief we feel about this young man's 
loss of life and his contribution to our country.

I cannot tell you how exciting it was for me to meet him. This young 
man had nothing but potential and a great interest in seeing his 
country do better and grow stronger. And he wanted to be a part of it 
and make a contribution to our land.

Today, I am here to say enough is enough. I think all of us feel this 
way. We are coming to a point next week when we will have a debate 
about this. We are going to discuss various resolutions before us. I 
firmly believe we have to do everything we possibly can to ensure that 
the tragedy of Brian Freeman does not continue to be replicated over 
and over again. That is why we must say no, in my view, to the decision 
by the President of the United States to send thousands more of our 
brave young men and women in uniform to the streets of Baghdad to risk 
their lives for a plan which just ''doesn't make any sense,'' to quote 
Brian Freeman.


I, as one Senator, intend to speak loudly, as I have already, against 
this ill-conceived policy. But more than just speak out, I intend, at 
every available opportunity, to ask this body and the other body to go 
on record in a meaningful way against the President's specific decision 
to send more than 20,000 additional troops to Iraq and against the 
continuation of our failed military strategy in Iraq.

This administration's Iraq policy has been a total failure. And this 
''escalation'' or ''surge''--call it whatever you will--of 21,500 more 
Americans is not going to work. I think all of us in this Chamber know 
it. General Powell, General Abizaid, and General Casey know it. The 
British and the rest of our allies know it. Nearly every expert who has 
come before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, regardless of their 
political persuasion or ideology, over the last several weeks of 
hearings Senator Biden has held, knows it as well.

That was their testimony. But most importantly, two-thirds of the 
American people flatout oppose it, according to a recent survey done in 
our country--not that surveys ought to determine policy. But you cannot 
sustain a policy when the American people no longer feel you are on the 
right track. And they are right about it.

As my good friend from Nebraska, Senator Hagel, so eloquently and 
passionately said:




 [W]e owe the military and their families a policy worthy of 


 their sacrifices . . . and I don't believe we have that 


 policy today.


I could not agree with him more.

As we all know, we have lost more than 3,000 young men and women. 
More than 20,000 American troops have been grievously injured. 
According to many estimates, several hundred thousand Iraqi civilians 
have been killed or maimed over the last 4 years. And now estimates 
suggest this war will end up costing the American people over $1.2 
trillion.

We have stretched our military to the breaking point. As Congressman 
Murtha testified before the Foreign Relations Committee last week:




 At the beginning of the Iraq war, 80 percent of all Army 


 units and almost 100 percent of active combat units were 


 rated at the highest state of readiness. Today, virtually all 


 of our active-duty combat units at home and all of our guard 


 units are at the lowest state of readiness--


''the lowest state of readiness''--



 primarily due to equipment shortages resulting from repeated 


 and extended deployments to Iraq.


I strongly believe we must demonstrate to the American public that we 
share their deep concerns and doubts about the President's proposed 
plans to escalate our involvement in Iraq. I think we need to 
demonstrate we are prepared to lead on this issue--not simply sit back, 
fearful of taking positions most of us believe are in the interests of 
our country.

Earlier this week in committee, I offered an amendment to the Foreign 
Relations Committee proposal that was offered by my friend, the 
chairman of the committee, Senator Biden, and Senator Hagel and the 
chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator Levin. My amendment 
called for capping the number of troops in Iraq and required the 
President to seek a new authorization--after 5 years, a new 
authorization; it has been 5 years since we voted on the justification 
to go into Iraq--but to get that new authorization from Congress 
immediately prior to any future troop increases in Iraq--an 
authorization, I would quickly add, I would vigorously oppose, but it 
would be an opportunity to debate on the floor of the Senate.

My amendment was not about setting a floor, as some have suggested. 
It was about exactly the opposite. It was about the first step in 
fundamentally altering the status quo in Iraq and forcing the President 
to listen to the recommendations of the Baker-Hamilton Study Group to 
fundamentally change our mission in Iraq and begin the phased 
redeployment of U.S. combat troops.

It was also about preventing more troops from being put in harm's way 
for a flawed tactic to a failed strategy.

Although my amendment failed, I voted in support of the Biden 
resolution. But I believe it is absolutely essential that the final 
resolution the Senate adopts next week be one with more clarity than is 
currently to be found in the words of this resolution or the competing 
Warner-Collins resolution, which was introduced by our good friend, the 
Senator from Virginia, Mr. John Warner.

Regardless of how effective I and others are in bringing more clarity 
to the resolution through the amendment process, we need to also take, 
at some point in the very near future, concrete legislative action such 
as was attempted last week in the committee on Wednesday but which is 
not possible in the context of the concurrent resolution we will 
consider next week.

We need to face the hard facts. The President of the United States 
has already said he will ignore Congress when it comes to his recent 
proposals on Iraq. He has said loudly he will ignore what we do. So it 
is all the more important we do something that is meaningful.


Sense-of-the-Senate resolutions are the easiest things to ignore. 
They require absolutely no Presidential recognition whatsoever. They 
are merely opportunities for us to express our views on various 
important matters. I recognize it has a value, to some degree. But 
there are people out there wondering whether we are actually going to 
take advantage of this time to do something more than send a message, 
which all of us have sent, either privately or publicly, that this 
policy must change. We are beyond the message-sending time. We all know 
what the message is.

Now the question is whether this body, this historic body, that has 
an obligation beyond the roles and the opportunities or the obligations 
of the other body, will take a clear and strong position when it comes 
to this most recent decision.

The Vice President has recently said that the nonbinding resolution 
passed by this coequal branch of Government ''won't stop us,'' to quote 
him. Mr. Cheney went on to say: ''I think it would be detrimental from 
the standpoint of the troops'' to pass this.

''Detrimental from the standpoint of the troops''?

Refereeing a civil war is detrimental from the standpoint of the 
troops. Surging into the streets of Baghdad with no clear mission is 
not detrimental to our troops? Sending Americans into combat with 
insufficient body armor is not detrimental to our troops? But stopping 
the President from sending more young men and women into Baghdad is 
most certainly not detrimental to our troops.

Two-thirds of the American public and two-thirds of our troops oppose 
a surge, according to a recent survey done by the Military Times--two-
thirds of the American public and two-thirds of our troops.

But it is not public opinion polls that shape my conclusions that our 
policies in Iraq are terribly flawed. It is the facts on the ground, 
which I have learned, as I know others have as well in our recent 
visits to Iraq, as well as the judgments of former and current military 
and foreign policy experts.

What is it going to take to make this administration change course?

It is going to take a Congress, in my view, that does not allow the 
blank checks over the last 5 years to continue. It is going to take a 
Congress--and I am confident this one will be one--that has the courage 
to stand up and clearly say we will not support


more troops nor the current failed policy. And if the President refuses 
to listen, it is going to take a Congress that is prepared to 
legislatively force the President to change this disastrous course.

So next week we will begin the process of attempting to make it 
crystal clear in the language of whatever concurrent resolution we 
adopt that this Congress is opposed to more troops, opposed to a policy 
that makes our troops remain referees in a civil war, and in favor of a 
changed policy which begins the process of the phased redeployment of 
our troops, which last year the Congress had anticipated would begin in 
2006.

There are those who say we should not try to tinker with the wording 
of carefully crafted Iraq resolutions because they are delicate 
compromises and to propose anything more forceful would be politically 
divisive and that Congress ought to speak with one voice.

Well, I wish we could speak with one voice. But to them I would say, 
I believe in consensus. I believe in bipartisanship. My 25-year record 
in this body has amply demonstrated the value of that. But when the 
quest for consensus paralyzes our ability and prevents us from taking 
real action to stop the senseless death of young Americans, then I do 
not think consensus ought to be the goal.

Stopping this insanity ought to be the goal. If you can do it 51 to 
49, then do it. If you can do it 100 to nothing, obviously, that is 
preferable. But waiting around for consensus on this issue worries me 
deeply, that we are going to miss an opportunity to fulfill our 
obligations to stand up and say: Enough of this stuff. Stop it now.

There are those who say that opposing the surge betrays our troops. 
Quite the contrary is true. I say to them, what truly betrays our 
troops is sending them into a civil war they cannot and should not have 
to stop. More than 60 percent of the Iraqi people do not want us in 
their country. How do you send people into harm's way when the people 
you are trying to help do not want you to stay?

Of course, stopping the escalation of U.S. forces is only the first 
step as part of a broader policy to stabilize Iraq and bring our troops 
home.

There must also be meaningful deescalation of U.S. combat activities 
in Iraq. We must begin the redeployment of U.S. forces away from the 
urban areas where the sectarian conflict is greatest, to enclaves 
within Iraq and to elsewhere within the region--Afghanistan, of course, 
being the principal place where our troops could be used.

This will enable U.S. forces to concentrate on training Iraqi forces, 
securing Iraq's borders, and conducting counterterrorism operations to 
protect U.S. vital security interests in the region.

In the coming days, every American should be able to know whether his 
or her Senator is prepared to go further and attempt to legally bind 
the President from continuing this policy of folly. That is why I will 
not be satisfied if the resolution we adopt next week is the last step 
this Congress takes to right the wrong that the President is 
perpetrating on our brave young men and women in uniform and on the 
American people as a whole. That is why I will find opportunities, if I 
can, to bring binding legislation to a vote in this body so that every 
American can know where we stand on this issue.

The American people want this Congress to live up to its 
responsibilities. I am confident we can and will under our leadership. 
The time has come for us to weigh in and change the course of U.S. 
involvement in Iraq, something we all know in our hearts needs to be 
done. If we were able to authorize the President to go to war in 2002--
a vote that I deeply regret having cast in favor of--5 years ago on 
grounds of weapons of mass destruction and the behavior of Saddam 
Hussein--one of which was not true, and the other doesn't exist 
anymore--it is time for us to debate this new argument for our 
involvement in Iraq and decide, up or down, whether we believe it is 
the right course of action.

This Nation of ours is at a critical crossroads. The President wants 
to deepen our involvement in the war. I think most of us here want to 
responsibly end our involvement after 4 painful years that have taken a 
tragic toll on our country.

I have met with countless families, in my own State and in others, 
who have been through the tragedy of losing loved ones in Iraq. Talking 
to Brian Freeman's family in Utah the other night was painful. His 14-
month-old and his 3-year-old don't have a father any longer. Our 
country lost a wonderful young man whom Senator Kerry and I had the 
privilege of meeting for such a brief time. But both of us were 
profoundly affected by his courage and commitment. I say to them and 
others that in this body we will stand up in the coming days and bring 
an end to this insanity.

I yield the floor.