---
---

# None
## `b7cc9f443795c6549124e2cce56cc2e1`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. One. He has one interpreter to help him communicate 
with 400 Iraqi soldiers.

Now these are all of the things that were not accounted for before we 
went into this place. That's what we are saying. There is a time and a 
place for military action. Afghanistan is the one we all cite, where 
they were harboring the al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden.

But now we have put these soldiers in a position where they are 
losing their friends. They are in dangerous situations. They don't know 
how long they are going to be there. Their tours keep getting extended, 
and you can't keep doing this to our soldiers.

And then you have a natural disaster in the United States and you 
don't have enough Guardsmen and -women to address the local problem.



Let's fix this. Let's work together to fix this problem and let's 
work with the President. Let's work with the members of the minority 
party in the House and the Senate to say let's start winding this thing 
down. That's what we want to do, and that's how I think we are going to 
begin to regain some credibility in the world. We are actually going to 
be pro-troop, pro-soldier by getting them out of a position that they 
can't survive in. We see the death tolls going up and we see what's 
happening at Walter Reed, and when you look at what we were able to do, 
immediate funding for the troops for the next 60 to 90 days and an 
evaluation of how we are doing, is that too much to ask?

I yield to my good friend.