---
---

# None
## `b7debedbccd726d5337d1d26cef7045d`
`Mr. MACK â€” 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. MACK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor over 20 brave men and 
women of our armed forces that were wounded in combat in Iraq and 
Afghanistan and enjoyed some rest and relaxation in Fort Myers last 
weekend.

The soldiers are currently recuperating at the Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Army Medical Center at Fort Gordon, Georgia, and came to Fort Myers for 
the weekend because one man, Cliff Naylor, wanted to show his 
appreciation for the sacrifices these soldiers have made.

Mr. Naylor was injured himself during the Vietnam War. During his 
recovery, he spent a restful weekend in Miami, thanks to the 
hospitality of local organizations in the area. Now, 30 years later, 
Mr. Naylor repaid the same favor to a group of Iraq and Afghanistan war 
soldiers in his hometown.

Thanks to the generosity and kindness of the people of Fort Myers, 
these heroes were able to enjoy some much-deserved rest as well as some 
of what Southwest Florida has to offer, including our sunny weather and 
beautiful beaches. Local businesses and veterans organizations, such as 
the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the American Legion, offered free 
meals, lodging, transportation, and activities for each soldier. The 
entire weekend would not have been possible without the support and 
generosity of these businesses and organizations, and in particular, 
Mr. John Ebling, the Director of Veterans Services for Lee County, who 
assisted with preparations for the event.

I was fortunate to have met these gracious soldiers during a special 
event that was held in their honor on Monday. I was struck by their 
perseverance, determination, and commitment to their fellow soldiers. 
Their strength and hope is an inspiration to us all, and I hope they 
were able to feel the love and appreciation of our grateful community.

The 24 soldiers that Fort Myers honored with its generosity are: SFC 
Edgar Abrams, SSG Bernard Behrens, SSG Gregory Burton, SPC Amos 
Casillas-Hernandez, SPC Denver Dalton, SPC Crystal Davis, SSG Kevin 
Elliott, 1SG Joseph Gardocki, SPC Ephraim Giron, SGT Matthew Goodwin, 
SGT Joseph Gose, SPC Nash Marlow, SSG Paul Mullis, CPT Simon Obeng, SPC 
Andres Perez, SSG Hugh Pettigrew, SGT Tommy Richardson, SFC Corey 
Robinson, CPL David Rodrigue, SGT Scott VanNatta, SPC Marcus Varnell, 
SSG Carl Watson, SGT Safari Williams, and SSG Calvin Wilson.

Madam Speaker, I join all the people of Southwest Florida in thanking 
these courageous men and women for their service to our Nation. They've 
given so much in defense of our freedoms, and we all owe them a debt of 
gratitude for their personal sacrifices.
