---
---

# MAJOR SCOTT NISELY POST OFFICE
## `b7df3048ad82228535ffcfaac0206872`
`Mr. LATHAM — 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. LATHAM. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me this 
time.

First of all, I would like to thank the committee and the gentleman 
from Illinois, Chairman Davis, for moving this piece of legislation as 
quickly as they have through the committee and for the opportunity to 
bring this I think most appropriate legislation to the floor today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to encourage my colleagues to support 
legislation that I introduced to honor Major Scott E. Nisely of 
Marshalltown, Iowa, one of America's heroes who was killed in combat on 
September 30, 2006, while serving our country in Iraq.

Scott Nisely served 22 years in the Marines as an officer on active 
duty and as a Reservist, retiring with the rank of major. During his 
time in the Marines, he served as an infantry company commander in 
Operation Desert Storm. And following his active duty, Scott worked 12 
years for the U.S. Postal Service in Marshalltown, Iowa.

Due to Scott's strong desire to serve his country, he accepted an 
enlisted rank in order to fill a vacancy in the Iowa Army National 
Guard in 2002.

According to letters I have received from soldiers in Scott's unit, 
he did not broadcast the fact that he was a former Marine major, but 
humbly served his fellow soldiers. One officer also said he was a 
''natural born leader of soldiers.''

Scott served with the Iowa National Guard on the Multinational Forces 
Observer mission in the Sinai, and finally in Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Scott's friends, family, coworkers, fellow soldiers and marines 
attest to the positive and lasting impact he had on their lives. 
Numerous letters from these individuals were sent to me, and I include 
them for the Record.

Scott's life was a shining example of dedication to service, a strong 
commitment certainly to his family, his faith, and his country. This 
legislation will name the post office located at 309 East Linn Street 
in Marshalltown, Iowa, the Major Scott Nisely Post Office.

I want to thank Scott's co-workers at the Marshalltown post office 
who initiated this proposal, and I am proud to help them make this 
timely and appropriate honor a reality. I also want to thank my 
colleagues from Iowa, Leonard Boswell, Steve King, Bruce Braley and 
Dave Loebsack for their support in moving this legislation forward. I 
strongly urge all Members to pass H.R. 2563.





















 Department of the Army,












Headquarters, 1st Battalion 133D Infantry,


















 Al Asad Ab, Iraq, June 8, 2007.


 Congressman Tom Latham,


 Ames, Iowa.



 Dear Mr. Latham: I am responding to an inquiry to determine 


 if my unit would support the consideration of naming the 


 United States Post Office in Marshalltown, Iowa after one of 


 my soldiers, Scott Nisely.



 The bottom line on this is yes, I, and my entire unit fully 


 support this effort, and see this as a fitting tribute to 


 this fallen citizen soldier.



 As a Battalion Commander, I have many soldiers that are 


 under my command. I have deployed in the service of our 


 country 3 times since September of 2000, I have been 


 entrusted with some of the finest young people that our State 


 and our Nation have to offer. Let me share with you a little 


 bit about Scott Nisely from my perspective.



 Scott joined the Iowa National Guard after completing a 


 full military career in the Marine Corps, retiring from the 


 Marine Corps as a Field Grade Officer. He then joined the 


 National Guard as an enlisted soldier in the rank of a Buck 


 Sergeant, because this was what was offered to him. On my 


 second deployment, and my first with Scott Nisely, I asked 


 him what motivated him to do this; his reply was that he felt 


 he could make a difference in the lives of these young men, 


 and he still felt a strong desire to serve his country in 


 whatever capacity he could. He didn't care about the rank, he 


 didn't care about the job, as long as he was working with 


 young soldiers, and serving our country. To me this was 


 evident during our OEF deployment, and in our current mission 


 in Iraq.



 Scott was a man that was respected by all those around him, 


 not because of the words he said, but because of the way that 


 he lived his life and by the example he set for others. We 


 all lost something the day we lost SFC Nisely and SGT 


 Sourivong. We cannot change the events that happened on that 


 day, but we can honor these men, and the sacrifice that they 


 have made. I believe by naming the Marshalltown Post Office 


 in honor of Scott Nisely, we will always have a visible 


 reminder of this sacrifice, and are honoring a great American 


 who lived his life in a manner that we should all strive to 


 pattern. He lived his life with honor and integrity, love for 


 his family, and love for his country.





 Sincerely,






















 Benjamin J. Corell,



















 Lieutenant Colonel, Infantry,



























 Commanding.