---
---

# AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007
## `b7e67b4d4545ffce18ced92b591daa34`
`Mr. SOUDER — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. SOUDER. Mr. Chairman, it is my intention to withdraw this 
amendment because of the strong opposition of Chairman Skelton and 
Ranking Member Duncan Hunter, but I appreciate the Rules Committee 
making this in order. I believe it is an important step.

I know I am going to rain a little bit on the general parade here. I 
think this is an important bill, it is an important step, but we have 
oversold the success of Afghanistan. Before my first trip, I knew then 
that our then Secretary of Defense, Donald Rumsfeld, wanted to separate 
the military effort in Afghanistan from other challenges the country 
faced, just like in Iraq.

In Afghanistan, the question was heroin. On my first trip there, I 
heard our own soldiers reflect the Pentagon attitude by mocking heroin 
and minimizing its efforts to get rid of it. I attended the briefings 
back here in Washington as the heroin problem began to pass anything 
we've ever seen under the Taliban by a factor of four to five times of 
anything we have ever seen under the Taliban. I asked the question, 
since we had not removed the regional drug lords from office, how many 
of the people who voted in that much heralded election could vote 
against their local drug lords.

State Department, Defense Department, DIA and CIA disagreed on the 
exact number. The highest was 30 percent, the lowest 20 percent. In 
other words, 70 to 80 percent of the people who voted in that election 
did not have a free vote because we did not remove the regional 
druglords from office, and we let the heroin poppy grow without 
controlling their sources of financing that had penetrated the early 
parts of the government.

This government has, in fact, started to act, as they attempted to 
assassinate President Karzai, who was clean, and he removed gradually 
some members of his cabinet. But by that time, the heroin, once again, 
four times world record, five times world record, four times world 
record, three times world record, approaching eight to 10 times the 
total cumulative effect that ever happened before the United States 
went into Afghanistan. We had sites that we could not hit because we 
were afraid they were going to shoot down our own planes.

What do we think they are buying the new IEDs with? What do we think 
they are buying the other equipment with? Of course they are getting it 
from profits from poppy.

I did a hearing in our subcommittee, because the British had this 
effort, ''Afghanistan: Have the British Counter-Narcotics Efforts Gone 
Wildly?'' On April 1, 2004. This is no new problem. Go arrest the 
druglords. Our military is afraid they are going to get exploded. How 
can you go arrest the drug lords?

My amendment was simply to say the military needs to support the 
antinarcotics efforts and the DEA to take down these. You can't send 
10, 25 agents out and say go arrest and take down the Helman province. 
When I went with Congressman Hoekstra and Congressman Ruppersberger and 
Congressman Shadegg, the four of us went into the Helman province, 
possibly the only four Members that will ever get there. And when we 
got there in a Blackhawk ride for 45 minutes, heroin as far as the eye 
can see going at a high rate of speed. Dwarfed Columbia. This is an 
incredible problem. The military needs to engage.

I agree with Chairman Skelton; we don't have enough troops in 
Afghanistan. And that makes it a problematic thing of how to support 
the DEA.



This bill is a first step. But we need the military engagement and 
support,


because you cannot get order, you cannot do alternative crops unless 
you eradicate the heroin and change a little bit of the market force. 
We can't subsidize the difference between other products and heroin. It 
is not possible.

We can't do those efforts, and INL and the State Department and DEA 
and the other agencies cannot do this without military support. This 
needs to be addressed in the defense bill. It needs to be addressed 
here in conference.

I hope that the chairman here can do it. I hope Chairman Skelton can 
do it. I hope the administration can do it. But let's understand there 
is no terrorism funding in Afghanistan. There is no insurgency efforts. 
There is no corrupt government if you get rid of the heroin.

This is a difficult problem. It is multi-faceted. But you need real 
protection, with real guns, with real transport, with real time, saying 
that they are going to give logistical support rather than force 
protection and extremist support, means and effect. For most of the 
time, the DEA agents are on their own, go in. With 10,000 Taliban, good 
luck in taking them down. They need more than good luck. They need some 
help.

Mr. Chairman, I yield to the chairman of the Foreign Affairs 
Committee, the gentleman from California (Mr. Lantos).