# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `b7e95837e19e7c6beb50fff51fe4e898`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for his question. Our 
committee, as the Senator knows perhaps better than any other Member of 
this body, has a huge responsibility month


after month, year after year, on the authorization bill. Most of our 
focus is on that bill in terms of staff assignments.

We also from time to time do have oversight hearings. We have had a 
couple on Iraq, but in terms of what is needed with the immense fraud 
and abuse and waste that has gone on in Iraq, we could assign our 
committee nothing else and still not catch up to what needs to be done 
relative to the waste and the fraud and the abuse that has taken place 
in Iraq contracting. We have perhaps three or four staff members 
assigned to investigation. They are in the middle of an investigation 
now. They could not possibly--with the very small number of staffers 
assigned to that responsibility--take on the breadth of work which 
needs to be done relative to Iraq.

Also, this amendment not only has a contracting commission, but it 
also is going to amend the Special Inspector General Act relative to 
Iraq to fill in a number of gaps which exist in the inspector general's 
jurisdiction.

The areas which I just outlined that the current special inspector 
general does not have jurisdiction over, we must have a modification of 
that jurisdiction in order that the special inspector general will have 
that capability which is now omitted from the tasking of the special 
inspector general. As the Senator also knows because he was responsible 
for the appointment of a number of these commissions, our committee 
supports, and indeed has led the way, in the creation of independent 
commissions all the time. It was not an abdication of our jurisdiction 
or our authority when the Packard Commission was created, when the 
section 800 commission was created, or when the Service Acquisition 
Reform Act Commission was recently created. There are many commissions 
that we appoint, and we are leading the way and have led the way to 
have created, and in no way does that diminish the jurisdiction of our 
committee.

In fact, it is quite the opposite. The creation of these commissions 
has been able to lead to reforms, legislative reforms at times, which 
our committee then is able to take up and adopt, hopefully, in many 
cases, and in fact has adopted in many cases.

So there is nothing novel about the creation of commissions. As a 
matter of fact, I think the Senator from Virginia, perhaps almost on 
his own, was the creator of a commission which we recently heard from 
to give us the independent assessment of the military capability of the 
Iraqi military forces, the commission led by General Jones.