---
---

# CONSTITUTIONAL CHECKS AND BALANCES
## `b7ebe581821af17e0c017093b53b38c3`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. I would like to thank the gentleman from 
Kentucky and all of my colleagues here in our freshman class. We all 
ran in these difficult elections almost a year ago, but I think the 
very strong message that came out of all of us coming to Washington was 
a very strong message from back home, and that is the responsibilities, 
as was suggested by our colleagues, that we all know, from our civics 
classes back in high school and elementary school, that the beauty and 
the strength of the United States and our democracy is all about checks 
and balances. It's what makes our system a democracy. We can look at 
other models in Europe and Asia and around the world and dictatorships 
and things like that, but the strength of what works in this country is 
checks and balances.

What we believe is going on and the reason this emphasis on article I 
is so important and for our public and the people in this country to 
jump on this and work with us and recognize this and talk about it is 
because there has been a falling down of one side. We're out of 
balance. There are three legs to the stool. Each one has a specific set 
of authority. The judges, the judiciary, interpret. The legislature, 
that is, the Congress, has the authority to make the laws. And the 
executive has certain authority into executing and following and, 
through the agencies, doing certain things. But when one branch gets 
out of whack, it means the power is coming from another branch. This 
isn't about personal power. This is about the strength of our 
democracy. That is the exciting piece here.



So this check and balance is not about President Bush, or any 
President. It's not about anybody in particular because there are 
future and past leaders that have all tried to exercise in certain 
ways. This is about where we are going in the future. I think as the 
gentlewoman from Ohio has already correctly mentioned, there has been a 
failure over the last number of years in the legislative branch, the 
Congress, in fighting back and asserting itself in terms of oversight 
and accountability and follow-through to make sure that the executive 
branch, the President and the executive branch, are doing what they are 
supposed to do, whether it is executing the war in Iraq and making sure 
that billions of dollars are not flowing out without any follow-up, 
whether it is an Attorney General that may not have necessarily been 
following some of the laws as we understand them or at least having the 
opportunity to ask the questions and not be stonewalled by the 
executive branch. This is what it's all about. It is a balance. It's a 
beautiful thing, truly, but it has got to work.

As the gentleman from Kentucky has correctly stated, and I thank him 
for bringing up in our discussion article I, this conversation that is 
going to happen throughout our country for the next couple of months 
is, let's make sure Congress does its job, let's limit the executive 
branch to do what it has to do, and make sure that our system works in 
its form of accountability that we have.