# MAJORITY MAKERS
## `b7f88ea5642268d83466d0b33060733f`
`Mr. ARCURI — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague from the 
great State of Ohio for organizing this and bringing us all together 
here, and I thank all of you for being here.

Like so many other Members of Congress, I have had an opportunity to 
go to Iraq. And recently I came back from there, about 3 weeks ago, and 
I couldn't help but be so impressed with the incredible job that our 
troops are doing there. The men and women that are there are doing 
everything that is asked of them and much more in an incredibly hostile 
environment.



And they're doing it not just as a job, but they're doing it with 
intensity and passion. And they're doing a great job at what they do in 
just incredibly hostile circumstances. I am convinced, after seeing the 
job that they did, that our military, in a just cause, could accomplish 
anything we ask of them, anything in the world. And I was just very 
impressed with how hard they're working.

But you can't help but be troubled by the fact that the mission there 
continues to change. I can't help but think about, the old example that 
they use in football is every time that the team sets up to kick a 
field goal they move the goalpost back. It just seems like that's what 
we're doing. First, as my friend from Vermont just said, we were told 
we were going to Iraq for weapons of mass destruction. That didn't pan 
out. We were told we had to remove a dictator in Saddam Hussein. Our 
soldiers did that, and they did it magnificently. Then we were told we 
had to stay until there were free elections. We had free elections. 
Then we were told that we had to stay there; in fact, we not only had 
to stay there, we had to increase our numbers there, we had to have a 
surge so that we could reduce the violence so that the government would 
have an opportunity, would have a chance to come together. And that's 
exactly what our soldiers did. And despite that fact, we are still told 
that we will continue to be there. This is just unimaginable.

Our soldiers have done everything that we have asked of them, and 
much more, in an incredibly hostile environment, and yet they continue 
to be told that they have to stay in Iraq. And for what?



I am convinced, after meeting with Dr. Salam al-Zubaie, the Deputy 
Prime Minister, that the factions in Iraq will continue to fight, they 
will continue to use America as a crutch for as long as they possibly 
can. We gave them time. We did exactly what we said we would do. And 
what did they do? They squandered that time. They continued to posture 
for a better position, and they continue to do that today. Blood is 
spilling, Iraqi blood, American blood, and they continue to posture. 
Violence increases, and they continue to posture. They refuse to come 
together. It is high time for us to allow Iraq to take over, to stand 
up for itself. They will stand up when we stand down.

The other thing that was very amazing, when you see it, and we talk 
about how much money we're spending there, we talk about the $16 
million an hour, the $2 billion a week. And they sound like numbers 
until you actually go there and you see the amount of equipment and you 
see the amount of investment we are making there. And obviously that is 
something that we have been doing and we will continue to do. But when 
you think about the fights that we have here right on this floor, the 
debates that we have on this floor about things like SCHIP, about 
things like improving our infrastructure that's crumbling, about things 
that are good domestically for our economy, and we don't do them. And 
we discuss and continue to debate about the money, and yet we spend 
billions and billions of dollars in Iraq.

I think while we do that, countries like China continue to take money 
and they invest it in their economy. We need to make our investment in 
our domestic economy, in our bridges, in our infrastructure, in our 
economy, in our health care system, in education. Those are the things 
that the American people want. Those are the things that we ran on last 
year. Those are the things that we promised the American people. And 
those are the things that we need to continue to work on.

I thank you thank you very much, my colleagues from the freshman 
class, for being here today. And, Ms. Sutton, thank you very much for 
bringing us here.