---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `b8026c1860e747df0bc4960e68c31090`
`Mr. LEAHY — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. I don't want to interfere with the majority leader, but I 
am not about to yield back that time, if I might mention for a moment, 
and then I will yield it back so he may speak, I hate to see records 
made on this floor that bear absolutely no relationship to the facts. 
The suggestion was made that there was one question on waterboarding 
out of hundreds of questions and that created the problem. Unlike 
Senators who may have spoken that way, I was there. I was there through 
the whole hearing on the first day. I was there through the whole 
hearing on the second day. I am probably the only Senator, other than 
possibly Senator Specter, who was there for every bit of it. There were 
several questions on this issue. In fact, the reason that as chairman I 
had a second day of hearings is because of some of the questions that 
were raised on the first day of hearings. I took the transcript and 
read it during that night because of it. There were questions on 
executive privilege, but there were questions on waterboarding.

Contrary to suggestions which seem to be more for political cover by 
some who may want to vote one way or the other, we do not need a new 
law on waterboarding. President Teddy Roosevelt did not need a law on 
that to find people had violated our laws 100 years ago. We did not 
need a new law on the question of waterboarding to prosecute Japanese 
war criminals for waterboarding Americans. We have not needed it at 
all. It is against the law. We do not need it. None of the military who 
write our Uniform Code of Military Justice need a new law to find it 
wrong. None of the Judge Advocate Generals need a new law to find it 
wrong. They have declared it wrong.

Our treaties, our other obligations find it wrong. Up until the last 
week or so of this administration, we would have objected to any other 
country using such techniques on Americans as wrong.

I understand the White House determines what their nominees want to 
say. That is fine. I have not lobbied any Senator one way or the other 
on this issue. But let us not pretend there was one question out of 
hundreds on waterboarding. There were many questions. Several Senators 
asked questions on this, more on the philosophy of: Is a President 
above the law? Can the President arbitrarily set people in this country 
above the laws of America or do the laws that we pass and their 
assignment to law by Presidents, is that a law that applies to every 
single American, including the President of the United States? Most of 
us feel the same way we learned in civics 101, that no one in America 
is above the law. That is the issue we raised in the Judiciary 
Committee. Those who are voting no on this is because they felt a great 
deal of concern about the answers.

Nobody questions Judge Mukasey's legal abilities. I find him a very 
attractive candidate for Attorney General. I do not find the ability to 
continue to vote for a myth that somehow the President is above the law 
anymore than those of us who voted to confirm General Petraeus were, as 
the White House then wanted to say, saying that we believed in 
everything the President was doing in Iraq. Many of us voted against 
the war in Iraq who then voted for General Petraeus because of his 
ability as a four star general. They are entirely different things. The 
suggestion otherwise, I find beneath the quality of discourse in this 
great body. I resent it. I reject it. Let people make up their mind how 
to vote one way or the other, but don't vote on red herrings. Don't 
vote on made-up ideas that we need to pass some law in the future and 
then, of course, we can be tough. In the future, we will do something 
and then we can be tough. That is sort of like saying: Gosh, if we had 
known we weren't being told the truth, we might have voted differently 
on Iraq. If we knew that waterboarding was bad, we might have voted 
differently.

Vote one way or the other. I will not question the motives of any 
Senator, no matter how they vote, either for or against this nominee. 
But let's not do it on a hypocritical pretext that the President is 
above the law when he is not or that the President can put any American 
above the law because he cannot. Let us not pretend that torture is not 
torture because it is, and it is beneath the great ideals of the most 
wonderful Nation on Earth.

I thank the Senator from Nevada and yield back the remainder of my 
time.