---
---

# ZACHARY SMITH POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `b81ae59f9d0faf26357dd366416a477a`
`Mr. TOWNS — 11 May 2010`

---


Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, it is with a heavy heart that I present H.R. 5051 
for consideration. This measure designates the United States postal 
building located at 23 Genesee Street in Hornell, New York, as the 
''Zachary Smith Post Office Building.''

On January 24, 2010, while on patrol in southern Afghanistan, Lance 
Corporal Zachary Smith, a marine with the 2nd Platoon, C Company, 1st 
Battalion, 6th Marines, based out of Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, made 
the ultimate sacrifice for his country. He had been awarded a Purple 
Heart by President Obama for his selfless service.

Zachary Smith was born on April 2, 1990, to his parents, Christopher 
and Kim Smith, in Hornell, New York, where he lived along with his 
brother and sister, Nathaniel and Grace Smith. Zach attended Hornell 
High School and graduated in 2008. Fulfilling his lifelong dream, 
Zachary enlisted in the Marines while still in high school. After 
graduation, Zach left for basic training, but not before marrying his 
high school sweetheart, Anne Deebs. They were wed on July 25, 2009, and 
Zach completed boot camp at Parris Island, South Carolina, before going 
on to graduate from the Marine Corps School of Infantry.

Described as a gifted athlete by friends, Zach was on the Hornell 
High


School football and golf teams throughout his 4 years of high school. 
He was a member of Twin Hickory Golf Club and also Hornell Golf Club. 
He enjoyed watching sporting events and especially liked to root for 
the New York Giants, the New York Yankees, and the Syracuse Orangemen. 
He was also a member of Our Lady of the Valley Parish and a communicant 
of St. Ann's Church. Those who knew him say he was a genuine, humorous, 
and outgoing young man who enthusiastically embraced life. He always 
cared more for others than he did for himself and would go out of his 
way to help anyone who needed his help.

The world would be a better place if it had more young men like Zach. 
His service to his country is an example we all should follow, and we 
owe him a debt of gratitude for his service and his sacrifice. Please 
join me in honoring Zach's memory by supporting this bill. The people 
of Hornell will be reminded of Zach's courage and valor every day as 
they pass by the post office building named in his honor.

H.R. 5051 was introduced by the gentleman from New York, 
Representative Joseph Crowley, on April 15, 2010. The measure was 
referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, which 
ordered it reported by unanimous consent on May 6, 2010. The measure 
enjoys the support of the entire New York State delegation. I thank the 
gentleman for introducing this bill, and I'm sure that it means a great 
deal to Lance Corporal Smith's family and his friends. I also thank the 
gentleman from California, Congressman Issa, and all the members of the 
committee, especially, that worked to make this a reality and, of 
course, Mr. Issa for his support in bringing this measure to the floor 
today as well.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote for this measure honoring a 
fallen soldier who gave his life for his country.

I reserve the balance of my time.