# REMEMBERING VICTIMS AT VIRGINIA TECH UNIVERSITY AND HONORING HISPANIC  WORLD WAR II VETERANS
## `b8278c695cbc8aa38feaa0b0d270a06f`
`Mr. HINOJOSA — 17 April 2007`

---


Mr. HINOJOSA. Madam Speaker, I first want to express my deepest 
condolences to all of the families who lost loved ones in yesterday's 
tragedy at Virginia Tech University. This horrific event has affected 
Americans all over this country and we all mourn for those who were 
lost and pray for the swift recovery of those who were injured.

Tonight I join my colleagues from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus 
in paying tribute to the thousands of Hispanic veterans who have fought 
and died defending this country. My Congressional district has lost 
many young men in this most recent conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan.

They are but the latest in a long line of patriots from South Texas 
who have given their lives in the defense of America.

Tonight I want to pay tribute to a young man from my district who 
received this Nation's highest award, the Congressional Medal of Honor.

Alfredo Cantu Gonzalez, known to his friends and family as 
''Freddy'', was born in 1946 in Edinburg, Texas in the Rio Grande 
Valley. His mother was a waitress, who had to raise her son alone.



Freddy worked in the cotton fields as a teenager to help his mother. 
He attended Edinburg High School, where he was an outstanding football 
star.

After graduation, he enlisted in the Marine Corps. After his initial 
training, he was sent to Vietnam in 1966 where he served as a rifleman 
and squad leader. He was quickly promoted from private to lance 
corporal to corporal.

He returned to the States in 1967 where he was given the task of 
training recruits in guerilla warfare. Freddy told his mother and 
friends he did not want to return to Vietnam and would not re-enlist.

A few months after his return from Vietnam, he learned that an entire 
Marine platoon had been killed, including a group of men who had served 
under him during his first tour of duty. He was saddened by their loss 
and immediately volunteered for a second tour of duty.

On July 1, 1967 he was promoted to sergeant and shipped back to 
Vietnam.

On January 31, 1968, Sergeant Freddy Gonzalez and his men were 
assigned the task of protecting a truck convoy that was bringing relief 
to a major Vietnamese town. The truck convoy was attacked by the Viet 
Cong with mortars and machine gun fire.

Although Sergeant Gonzalez was wounded, he ran through heavy fire to 
rescue a wounded Marine who fell off the tank.

On February 3, Sergeant Gonzalez was wounded again but refused 
medical treatment until all of the other wounded Marines were treated.

The next day, on February 4, Sergeant Gonzalez and his Marine platoon 
were pinned down by the Viet Cong, who were firing at the Americans 
with rockets and automatic weapons from a church.

Sergeant Gonzalez, utilizing a number of light anti-tank assault 
weapons, fearlessly moved from position to position, firing numerous 
rounds at the heavily fortified enemy emplacements, almost single-
handedly neutralizing the enemy.

All appeared quiet and Sergeant Gonzalez approached to make sure that 
the church was secure when the hidden lone enemy survivor killed him. 
At the age of 21, Sergeant Freddy Gonzalez had given the ultimate 
sacrifice for his country.

In 1969, his mother, Dolia Gonzalez, was escorted to the White House 
to receive the Congressional Medal of Honor awarded to her son 
posthumously because of his tremendous heroism in saving the men in his 
platoon.

He was also awarded numerous other medals including the Purple Heart, 
the Vietnam Presidential Unit Citation, the National Defense Service 
Medal, the Vietnam Service Medal with 2 bronze stars and the Vietnam 
Gallantry Cross with palm.

Long after his death, his courage, his patriotism and his sacrifice 
are still remembered. In the Rio Grande Valley there are schools, roads 
and parks named after him.

In 1996, the Navy commissioned the USS Gonzalez, a guided-missile 
destroyer and the first modern destroyer named for a Mexican American. 
Freddie was one of 13 Hispanics who were awarded the Medal of Honor for 
their service in Vietnam.

Hispanics have a proud tradition of patriotism and have always been 
willing to answer America's call to duty, often when they were not even 
citizens. Freddy Gonzalez' story is just one of the many thousands of 
stories that make up the heritage of our Hispanic veterans.

I urge all of my colleagues to join me in thanking all of these brave 
men and women, as well as their families and loved ones, for their 
service.