---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `b851e5ace3592eaa0c44073ee4a8460f`
`Mr. LEVIN — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, today there are two distinct messages coming 
out of Washington. The first message is from a majority of the Congress 
and underscores impatience with the lack of political progress in Iraq. 
We call for a new direction, including enforceable benchmarks for the 
performance of the Iraqi government. The other message is from the 
White House. The message the President is sending is that America's 
military commitment in Iraq remains open-ended, no matter what.

The President keeps saying that we're making progress in Iraq. This 
claim cannot be reconciled with the facts. Nearly everyone agrees that 
there is no military solution possible in Iraq; rather, the Iraqis must 
make the political compromises necessary to end the violence.

But where is the progress on the benchmarks that the President 
himself has endorsed? Where is the agreement to fairly share Iraq's oil 
wealth among all of Iraq's people? Where is the law reversing the 
disastrous de-Baathification policy? Where are the promised new 
election laws? Where is the progress on amending the Iraqi constitution 
to address longstanding Sunni concerns? The Iraqi government has 
repeatedly promised action on all of these, but there is little forward 
movement after many months.

Benchmarks are only real if there are consequences for failure to 
meet them. Back in January, the President said, and I quote, ''if the 
Iraqi government does not follow through on its promises, it will lose 
the support of the American people--and it will lose the support of the 
Iraqi people.'' But by vetoing the Iraq Accountability Act, the 
President has made it clear that failure to follow through on the 
benchmarks will not result in the loss of the White House's support for 
this open-ended war.

From the beginning, the Bush Administration has been wrong so many 
times about nearly every aspect of the war in Iraq. Now the President 
comes to Congress again to ask for yet another blank check. We should 
not give him one. I urge the House to override the President's veto.