---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `b86cde8645d587d07b336f0864a2a974`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 3 May 2007`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I rise today to join my colleague and 
my good friend, the Senator from Arkansas, Mr. Pryor, in introducing 
legislation to ensure that the medical needs of wounded service men and 
women are properly met and that the military bureaucracy does not 
interfere with their recovery progress.

We have watched with embarrassment and compassion as the unacceptable 
conditions of some of our military medical care facilities and housing 
facilities were revealed and shown to the public. Clearly, we owe our 
wounded military personnel the best treatment and care that can be 
offered. This bill we are introducing today will help provide that.

Let me say, first of all, I have recently had the opportunity to 
visit the Eisenhower Medical Center at Fort Gordon, GA, as well as the 
medical facility at Fort Benning, GA, and I am reminded once again that 
medical care given to our military men and women is truly second to 
none. Are there exceptions? Sure. There are problems that arise from 
time to time in the delivery of health care services to our military 
men and women. Our purpose today is to try to make some of the 
bureaucracy go away and to try to help make sure our medical suppliers 
at all of our military facilities around the country and around the 
world have the ability to deliver the very best medical care to our men 
and women.

Our bill, S. 1283, the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act of 2007, will 
improve the access to and quality of the health care our military 
personnel receive by requiring that case managers for personnel in 
medical holdover status handle no more than 17 cases and review each 
case once a week.

Our bill will also create a system of patient advocates who can help 
personnel navigate the cumbersome medical board and review process, as 
well as add necessary funding to hire additional physicians.

Our bill increases training for health care professionals, medical 
case managers, and patient advocates, with an emphasis on identifying 
and treating difficult-to-diagnose and complex conditions, such as 
post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury.

Our bill establishes a toll-free hotline for patients and their 
families to report problems with medical facilities or patient care and 
creates an independent advocate to counsel servicemembers appearing 
before medical evaluation boards.

Our bill creates a wounded warrior battalion, which will be an Army 
pilot program to improve the transition from military to civilian life 
for wounded combat veterans, as well as track and assist members of the 
Armed Forces who are in outpatient status and in need of medical 
treatment. More than 24,900 soldiers have been wounded in Iraq. We owe 
it to them and their loved ones to have a responsive health care system 
in place, in addition to the very best medical care available.

This legislation increases the resources available to our veterans in 
order to allow them to focus on their recovery rather than redtape. 
Heroes such as these need and deserve the best medical care and 
attention we can offer them, and this bill will help provide that. They 
do not need to be disadvantaged by an outdated, bureaucratic process 
that adds more stress to their recovery process.

Our legislation is a step in the right direction to reform and 
modernize the outpatient treatment process and will increase the morale 
and welfare of our recovering servicemembers. They deserve our fullest 
support, and we are committed to meeting their needs.

This bill mirrors H.R. 1538, which was passed by the House of 
Representatives by a vote of 426 to 0 on March 28 of this year.

I thank Senator Pryor for the chance to work together with him on 
this important legislation. He and I have had the opportunity to work 
on any number of measures during our now going on 5 years in the 
Senate. He is a true champion of not just our wounded but all of our 
military personnel, and it has been a pleasure to work with him.

I commend this bill to all of my colleagues. I hope we can move to a 
swift passage of the bill so we can present it to the President for his 
signature. I urge my colleagues to support it.

I yield the floor.