---
---

# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b87f826b537e298e9f3df7e24dc664fa`
`Mrs. NAPOLITANO — 28 June 2007`

---


Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I am glad my colleague has stated the background of the fair, but I 
don't know if he knows it has been around for many decades. Yes, it is 
very well attended, hosts many functions, has all of the buildings that 
he is talking about. Yet it is still so old that a lot of it is in 
very, very serious stages of decay. By that, it needs some 
restructuring. But that's beside the point.

What this does is for a center to be made, and I'll read what it 
really is about. It's Fairplex Trade and Conference Center, will be 
85,000 square foot, state-of-the-art conference and exhibition center, 
complete with broadband connectivity, campus-wide wireless integration, 
as well as satellite two-way communications gear, attracting and 
benefiting small business. It will have both small and medium-sized 
meeting rooms outfitted with high-tech equipment ideally suited to help 
small business during events.

This is an ideal setting to convene small businesses from my area and 
from outside of the United States to share their ideas and 
compatibilities to do business.

The amendment that is proposed by my colleague would strip the 
funding from the SBA account for construction of this non-profit 
entity, a building that will create jobs and provide businesses in a 
disadvantaged community. I am talking about the number one crime city 
in the State of California, that's Pomona.

Unfortunately, there has not been the foresight from the surrounding 
community to help combat crime or to try to provide more economic 
development. Pomona itself had not had a general plan of review in 
almost 30 years. They hadn't had new investments.

This will help bring all of that, not only to Pomona, but to the 
surrounding communities which Mr. Dreier, Mr. Miller and Ms. Solis are 
around, would help foster that economic growth by bringing together 
small businesses, entrepreneurships and being able to do international 
trade.

The center itself is projected to provide roughly 1,700 jobs and 
provide economic stimulus. Already, 90 small businesses have registered 
to work.

Mr. Chair, the trade conference is scheduled to cost $25 million, 
minimum. Of that, Fairplex is putting in $5 million; City of Pomona, $7 
million; EDA competitive grants, $5 million; SBA, which we are hoping 
to be able to get, $250,000; and the county and State, $6,750,000 with 
private sponsorship putting in the rest.

This project could be so beneficial to my whole area, not just my 
communities, but to the whole general area that is not really part of 
Los Angeles proper. It is more into the Inland Empire and has been, 
what I call, a neglected area of Los Angeles County. It enjoys a lot of 
respect and a lot of support from not only the communities, but the 
many cities around it.

As my colleague has aptly pointed out, it hosts a whole slew of 
activities for the whole southern part of California. It is used also 
for Federal events.

We have had at least two times a year 4,000 naturalization swearing-
in ceremonies. Iraqi elections were held there 2 years ago. As 
representative for the city, I am proud to support this economic 
development issue and to try to bring more business and jobs to my 
area.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on my colleague Mr. Flake's 
amendment.

I also want to thank Mr. Dreier. This is not his bill nor his area, 
but he has always been very supportive of what we are trying to do. I 
certainly thank you for the time.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.