# None
## `b882bd853ad74e8d569a00f5696554b1`
`Mr. OBAMA — 1 October 2007`

---

 Mr. OBAMA. Mr. President, the recent incident in which 
Blackwater USA reportedly killed at least 11 Iraqis and wounded several 
others has prompted a long overdue examination of the role that private 
security contractors are playing in Iraq. An article in today's 
Washington Post titled ''U.S. Pays Steep Price for Private Security in 
Iraq'' helps to highlight the exorbitant mark-up that private security 
contractors are reportedly charging the U.S. Government.

Last week, the Senate accepted an amendment to the Defense Department 
authorization bill that I offered that will require Federal departments 
to report information to Congress on the total number of contractors in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, the companies awarded these contracts, and the 
cost of the contracts. The provisions of the amendment are drawn from 
the Transparency and Accountability in Military and Security 
Contracting Act, S. 674, that I introduced in February.

The American people have a right to know how their tax dollars are 
being spent in Iraq and the role that security contractors are playing 
in that conflict. We need to make sure that security contractors in 
Iraq are subject to adequate and transparent oversight and that their 
actions do not have a negative impact on our efforts to bring the war 
in Iraq to a responsible end.

I ask to have printed in the Record the text of the article from the 
Washington Post.

The article follows.









[From the Washington Post, Oct. 1, 2007]






 U.S. Pays Steep Price for Private Security in Iraq














 (By Walter Pincus)




 It costs the U.S. government a lot more to hire contract 


 employees as security guards in Iraq than to use American 


 troops.



 It comes down to the simple business equation of every 


 transaction requiring a profit.



 The contract that Blackwater Security Consulting signed in 


 March 2004 with Regency Hotel and Hospital of Kuwait for a 


 34-person security team offers a view into the private-


 security business world. The contract was made public last 


 week by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee 


 majority staff as part of its report on Blackwater's actions 


 related to an incident in Fallujah on March 31, 2004, when 


 four members of the company's security team were killed in an 


 ambush.



 Understanding the contract's details requires some 


 background: Regency was a subcontractor to another company, 


 ESS Support Services Worldwide, of Cyprus, that was providing 


 food and catering supplies to U.S. armed forces in Fallujah 


 and other cities in Iraq. And ESS was a subcontractor to KBR, 


 a subsidiary of Halliburton, which had the prime contract 


 with the Defense Department.



 So, Blackwater was a subcontractor to Regency, which was a 


 subcontractor to ESS, which was a subcontractor to 


 Halliburton's KBR subsidiary, the prime contractor for the 


 Pentagon--and each company along the way was in business to 


 make a profit.



 Under the contract, Regency was to pay Blackwater 


 $11,082,326 for one year, with a second year option, to put 


 together a 34-person team that would provide security 


 services for the ''movement of ESS's staff, management and 


 workforce throughout Kuwait and Iraq and across country 


 borders including the borders of Iraq, Kuwait, Turkey and 


 Jordan.''



 Blackwater's personnel were to do more than just convoy 


 security. They were also to run command centers in Kuwait and 


 Iraq 24 hours a day, seven days a week, that were to control 


 all ESS security operations; prepare risk assessments; 


 develop security procedures; train ESS personnel in security; 


 and even vet other Iraqi security forces hired by Regency.



 But their main role was to provide ''tactically sound and 


 fully mission capable protective security details, the 


 minimum team size [being] six operators with a minimum of two 


 vehicles to support ESS movements.''



 Blackwater's pricing was to be on ''a per person support 


 basis, not including costs for housing, subsistence, vehicles 


 and large equipment items,'' according to the contract. The 


 team would be made up of two senior managers, 12 middle 


 managers and 20 operators.



 Regency was to provide Blackwater personnel with housing 


 and necessities, including meals, as well as office space and 


 administrative support. In addition, Regency would provide 


 basic equipment, including vehicles and heavy weapons, while 


 Blackwater was responsible for purchasing individual weapons 


 and ammunition.



 According to data provided to the House panel, the average 


 per-day pay to personnel Blackwater hired was $600. According 


 to the schedule of rates, supplies and services attached to 


 the contract, Blackwater charged Regency $1,075 a day for 


 senior managers, $945 a day for middle managers and $815 a 


 day for operators.



 Acording to data provided to the House panel, Regency 


 charged ESS an average of $1,100 a day for the same people. 


 How the Blackwater and Regency security charges were passed 


 on by ESS to Halliburton's KBR cannot easily be determined 


 since the catering company was paid on a per-meal basis, with 


 security being a percentage of that charge.



 Halliburton's KBR blended its security costs into the 


 blanket costs passed on to the Defense Department.



 How much more these costs are compared with the pay of U.S. 


 troops is easier to determine.





 An unmarried sergeant given Iraq pay and relief from U.S. 


 taxes makes about $83 to $85 a day, given time in service. A 


 married sergeant with children makes about double that, $170 


 a day.



 Army Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in 


 Baghdad overseeing more than 160,000 U.S. troops, makes 


 roughly $180,000 a year, or about $493 a day. That comes out 


 to less than half the fee charged by Blackwater for its 


 senior manager of a 34-man security team.
