# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `b88de064c47e861c1aac240703c74f52`
`Mr. COCHRAN â€” 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, over the past few months I have spoken 
several times in this Chamber about the need to approve a supplemental 
request from the President for appropriations to fund activities and 
operations of the Department of Defense. Progress on this request has 
been terribly slow. It has now been more than 500 days since the 
President submitted his request.

In a hearing before the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee last 
month, Secretary of Defense Gates testified that the military personnel 
accounts that pay our soldiers, and the operations and maintenance 
accounts that fund readiness, training and salaries of civilian 
employees were running dry. Secretary Gates has been able to forestall 
this depletion of funds for a short period of time, but only by 
employing measures that are disruptive to the operations and management 
of the Department of Defense.

Secretary Gates has had to transfer funding from Air Force, Navy and 
Marine accounts to the Army to enable the Army to meet its military and 
civilian payroll, and to fund current operations. It is incredible to 
think that to be able to pay military personnel who are on the 
frontlines, engaged in combat, the Secretary of Defense has had to 
transfer funding between accounts because the Congress will not act on 
a supplemental request that has been pending for almost a year and a 
half.

The delay in providing supplemental funding has caused the Defense 
Department to divert thousands of man hours from focusing on how best 
to support our men and women in uniform to figuring out how to cash 
flow the Defense Department so our men and women in uniform will 
receive a paycheck. We will probably never know how many millions of 
dollars have been wasted during this shell game. And we will probably 
never know how many sailors, soldiers, airmen or marines have been put 
at greater risk because Defense Department leaders and managers have 
had to shift their attention from supporting the warfighter to figuring 
out how to make the payroll, or deciding what activities are ''exempt'' 
from cessation because the Department's funding has been depleted.

The delay in providing funding for our troops has disrupted 
operations in Afghanistan as well as Iraq. Admiral Mullen, the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testified at a Defense Appropriations 
Subcommittee hearing that during his visit to the front lines he 
learned that the soldiers were unable to allocate funds from the 
Commander's Emergency Response Program because all the money had 
essentially already been allocated. We are more than two-thirds of the 
way through the fiscal year, yet Congress has provided less than one-
third of the funds requested for this emergency response. Admiral 
Mullen said, and I quote,




 I'm especially concerned about the availability of funds 


 into the Commander's Emergency Response Program, authority 


 for which expires next month. (The program) has proven in 


 most cases more valuable and perhaps more rapid than bullets 


 or bombs in the fight against extremism . . .


I worry that the Congress is becoming an impediment to the efficiency 
and the capability of our government, and to our Department of Defense 
particularly. I worry that we are not acting as expeditiously as we 
should to protect our troops in the field that are conducting dangerous 
missions. The delays we have experienced with this supplemental were as 
unnecessary as they are inexcusable.

I am also disappointed that the supplemental before the Senate means 
that the gulf coast's ongoing recovery from Hurricane Katrina will be 
slowed. Mississippi's gulf coast suffered tremendous devastation as 
Senators know as a result of Hurricane Katrina. There was significant 
loss of life as well as significant damage to property. In last year's 
supplemental spending bill, the Congress tasked the U.S. Army Corps of 
Engineers to recommend measures to protect the Mississippi gulf coast 
from future storms. The Corps of Engineers has drafted its 
recommendations, and the Senate responded by including funding for 
these important Corps-recommended projects in our version of the 
supplemental appropriations bill.

One of the projects included in the Senate-passed supplemental is the 
restoration of Mississippi's Barrier Islands. These islands, which are 
federally owned, suffered terrible damage after Hurricane Camille in 
1969 and are now so vulnerable that even a relatively small hurricane 
may destroy them completely. These are my State's last line of defense 
before a major hurricane moves inland. Continued delay leaves my state 
more vulnerable.

The Corps of Engineers also concluded that homeowner relocation 
assistance would be the most effective alternative for reducing the 
risk from future hurricane surge events by relocating structures and 
population centers from the high risk zones. This voluntary program 
would assist those who are looking to locate outside the high-hazard 
area. It is vital not only to recovery but also for protection from a 
future disaster. We are now in the midst of another hurricane season, 
and every day this Congress does not act is 1 more day that 
Mississippians are at risk.

Unfortunately, all of these items were dropped from the bill by the 
other body, and because of the long delay in acting on the supplemental 
there is now no time or opportunity to consider the matter further. I 
share the President's concerns about excessive spending. But 16 months 
have passed since the President's supplemental request was submitted, 
and 6 months have passed since the 2008 bills were enacted. In that 
time natural disasters have occurred and additional disaster-related 
needs have become apparent.

In March of this year, three barracks at Camp Shelby in Mississippi 
suffered significant damage and destruction after violent weather. 
Fourteen soldiers were hospitalized; four of the soldiers sustained 
serious injuries. Many other structures were damaged. The Senate-passed 
spending bill contained funding to rebuild these barracks, but the 
continued delays in funding prevent this important work from being 
started. Floodwaters continue to inflict damages to farms, homes, and 
businesses along the Mississippi River. There is little question that 
additional resources will be required to respond to this continuing 
disaster.

I am speaking today in part to draw attention to what I feel has been 
a poor performance by Congress on this bill. But I also come to the 
floor because there is no other venue to express my views on the 
supplemental. There was no conference committee appointed to resolve 
differences between the House and Senate. There were no meetings of the 
chairmen and ranking members of the Appropriations Committees or of the 
subcommittees involved. And there has been virtually no opportunity for 
Members of this body to offer amendments to the bill. I regret that. It 
is not the way we should discharge our responsibilities. I think there 
is little question that had we followed regular order we could have 
enacted a supplemental a month ago, and spared our men and women in the 
field a great deal of uncertainty.

I support this supplemental and urge my colleagues to do the same, 
but hope that we can do better next time.