---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE PETER M. GOODRICH MEMORIAL FOUNDATION
## `b89062f9ed07a31edf901963b2826b32`
`Mr. LEAHY — 14 April 2010`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, it is a great pleasure to call the Senate's 
attention to the inspiring work of Donald and Sarah ''Sally'' Goodrich 
of Bennington, VT, through their efforts to turn their own devastating 
personal tragedy into new opportunity and hope for children and 
families a world away in Afghanistan.

Confronted by the death of their son Peter aboard the flight that 
struck the south tower of the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001, 
Don and Sally


Goodrich channeled their grief and energy into a foundation established 
in his memory--a foundation with a unique and uplifting purpose.

The Peter M. Goodrich Foundation provides food, clean water, shelter 
and educational opportunities to Afghan children facing extreme 
hardship, dismal circumstances and little hope for the future. The 
foundation's mission is far broader than offering basic humanitarian 
services to a country torn by conflict; its work recognizes the 
untapped potential of a generation of Afghan children, helping them to 
rise above hate and to embrace values based on understanding, tolerance 
and respect.

With this vision and this goal, the Goodrich Foundation supports 
exchange programs that bring Afghan students to the United States and 
vocational programs that allow them to put their knowledge and skills 
to use upon their return to Afghanistan. The foundation also promotes 
the work of The Afghan Women's Writing Project, which helps Afghan 
women to be heard in their own right rather than solely through their 
male relatives. These are just a few examples of the tremendous amount 
of good the foundation has achieved in less than a decade. We can all 
be grateful to Sally and Don for opening their hearts, amid their 
personal grief, and lighting an enduring flame of hope after one of our 
Nation's darkest hours.
