---
---

# TRIBUTE ON THE PUBLIC SERVICE OF RON GRIFFIN AND HIS SON, KYLE
## `b893b4a1f45a889bb094e23ad4dbf650`
`Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey — 16 April 2007`

---


Mr. GARRETT of New Jersey. Madam Speaker, last month, one of my 
constituents, Ron Griffin, journeyed to Iraq. His son, Kyle, had been 
killed while serving in Iraq. Mr. Griffin wanted to meet with men and 
women who were now serving there and with Iraqi citizens who were 
living through the war there.

His trip was not sanctioned by our Government. In fact, the State 
Department and Pentagon tried to talk him out of taking it for fear for 
Mr. Griffin's safety. But, showing the same determination and 
commitment that his son and his son's fellow servicemembers demonstrate 
to the world every day, Mr. Griffin found his way to Iraq any way.

In the face of constant media and political attention on Iraq, 
sometimes it seems that the negative news dominates coverage and it is 
easy to forget the many positive acts about which we may never hear. 
Mr. Griffin is on a mission to show the world how extraordinary the men 
and women serving in Iraq are and how hopeful they and the Iraqi people 
are for a better future. He says that what he saw in Iraq can be summed 
up in three words: ''Professionalism. Humanity. Spirituality.'' And, I 
would like to share his thoughts on his trip in his own words:




 I journeyed to Iraq for this is where my son died helping 


 to free a nation. I came on my own dime without the 


 sponsorship of anyone. I simply desired to experience through 


 my own eyes a sense of what the true reality of life on the 


 ground in Iraq is from the words of and the ability to 


 observe the people who populate the Kurdish area in the 


 northern and eastern portion of Iraq and from our service 


 members wherever I had the honor of meeting with and speaking 


 to the true American Idols of our lifetime.



 I went not as some distraught father searching for that 


 elusive feeling of closer that all so many believe that I 


 must attain in order to move on. I abhor that statement. It 


 is not the manner in which I mourn or honor my son and every 


 other Fallen Hero. Each day of my life I endure the numbing 


 sadness that is the reality of Kyle's death while in 


 simultaneously I have been comforted and supported by the 


 fathomless depths of human kindnesses. I am saddened for all 


 those who never had the pleasure of meeting my son, the other 


 Fallen Heroes or any of those other magnificent individuals 


 who have served and serve us this day. You have lost more 


 than I have for I have been honored to have walked among 


 greatness.



 I came however with a pre-disposed political bent that is 


 in total support of our mission and for doing whatever and 


 for how long it takes for the successful completion of our 


 mission. Having spent nearing two weeks living among the 


 Kurdish people, journeying from Erbil to Duhok to Barzan and 


 countless locations in between and then traveling from 


 Harbor Gate on the Turkish border in the north down 


 through Mosul, Tikrit and finally to Baghdad with the 


 members of our magnificent military I am today an American 


 father who knows unquestionably and steadfastly that the 


 price my son paid to liberate Iraq was worth every ounce 


 of blood and sweat he sacrificed. However it is not from 


 the political perspective that I have reached that 


 conclusion but rather from the depths of the humanity of 


 the Kurdish people and the majesty in which our military 


 conducts themselves while in service to us.



 Somewhere in the recesses of my consciousness I am 


 continually reminded that somehow I have been put on this 


 path for a purpose and that could not have been made more 


 perfectly clear than by what I have experienced these past 


 two weeks. I have long bridled under the incessant negativity 


 that the vast majority of the media portrayed as the reality 


 of Iraq. That notion was ripped from my perspective when I 


 was told outright by the Soldiers that they knew that 


 regardless of how many ribbons they helped cut, schools they 


 opened, or lives they improved on any given day that if one 


 bomb went off in Baghdad the story that would be told would 


 be the boom story. They felt bad for the American people for 


 they would then not be able to share in the joyous 


 satisfaction that the soldiers and the Iraqi people had 


 experienced. They are over that and now so am I. Likewise I 


 was somewhat consumed with the hypocrisy of those who mouth 


 the words of support for the troops while calling their 


 mission a failure and wanting to end it. I thought that such 


 statements were hurting the troops as they served us. I am 


 now ashamed of my lack of insight to what indeed is the 


 reality of Iraq, or at least that part of and the people of 


 that part that I journeyed through. Almost universally the 


 troops told me that they simply do not have the time to be 


 involved in the political aspect of what they are doing for 


 to do so would interfere with the performance of their job 


 and that is the primary mission to every Soldier. It finally 


 became clear to me from my many conversations that while 


 they, like most human beings would most certainly would 


 appreciate the unending support of the American people 


 especially as they endure all the hardships of being 


 Soldiers, they will perform every task assigned to them for 


 they are consummate professionals through and through. They 


 do their job because they are individuals of the highest 


 moral character who have sworn an oath to protect and defend 


 this country and nothing will prevent them from doing just 


 that. To watch them do their jobs is liken to viewing Tiger 


 Woods march through a golf course. The Soldiers just wear 


 different clothes.



 Stepping off the plane in Erbil, a city of over 1 million 


 residents and the capital of the Kurdish region, you can not 


 help but be stunned by the majestic vistas, impressed by the 


 precision and competency of the personnel at the airport and 


 be totally astonished by the expansion that is taking place 


 on every section of the now Erbil International Airport and 


 the city itself for you must continually remind yourself that 


 indeed you are in Iraq! The physical part of the Kurdish 


 region is simply breathtaking in it's scope and beauty, while 


 the emotional aspect is riveting in its intensity and 


 vibrancy. Freedom permeates from every inch of this land and 


 in that sense of security, optimism resounds. The entire 


 region appears to be one vast construction site with building 


 and improvements going on everywhere. One only has to travel 


 but a few short blocks in any direction and the examples of 


 rapid and real progress stun your senses. I have likewise 


 traveled to the hinterland where the amenities of life are 


 Spartan but in both locations the quality of the Kurdish 


 people bring joy to all those that have the privilege of 


 meeting them. They seem to have been born with a perpetual 


 warm and engaging smile and a sincere and genuine greeting 


 for all those that they come in contact with. Eye contact is 


 never absent from the conversation, nor is the ever-present 


 wry smile that can burst into uncontrolled laughter at any 


 time. One need to only ride down the road from Erbil to 


 Khanzad, a 15 Km drive from central Erbil to experience 


 the joy of these wonderful people. There are endless 


 picnics ongoing during this month of celebration. Children 


 laugh, play and fly their kites, men play music or dance 


 while the women in festive and shimmering colored native 


 dress organize the feeding of everyone.



 Each and every conversation is filled with the personal 


 atrocities that they have all endured. Atrocities that they 


 will forever remember and will not allow anyone to forget




 but amidst those stories of horror lurks absolutely no 


 seething need for revenge. They know full well that there is 


 no time or place for revenge and recrimination. They live 


 with the horror of yesterday and look to the future with 


 optimism and eternal thanks for the help and support of the 


 American people in helping them gain their total freedom. 


 Thank you and welcome are part of every conversation. From 


 Harbor Gate to Mosul to Tikrit to Baghdad back to Tikrit, 


 with a honored stop at Diyala, to Mosul and then finally back 


 to Erbil I have been simultaneously overwhelmed, stunned and 


 awe struck by the extraordinary professionalism of every 


 soldier I personally meet and those I only had the 


 opportunity to observe without them ever knowing that I was 


 watching. I learned of an organization that cares deeply, 


 profoundly and personally for the well being of every 


 individual within its ranks, while every individual member is 


 willing to sacrifice their very being for every other 


 individual member. That is why they go about what they call 


 their job but what I refer to as their passion with a clarity 


 of purpose that humbles you to your knees. In this 


 organization everyone and I mean everyone knows that they are 


 first and foremost a soldier who is fully trained and 


 prepared to go into battle should the need occur but they 


 likewise perform a multitude of vast ranging tasks that they 


 have been highly trained for to highest possible professional 


 standards. They completely understand their specific task and 


 perform it superbly for they know full well that every 


 individual soldier is equal in their value and importance to 


 the successful completion of the mission.



 The words COMPLEXITY and PROFESSIONALISM scream at you as 


 you begin to understand all that is going on all about you. 


 From the formation of a huge truck convoy, to the logistical 


 requirements of a division, to the combat readiness of 


 squadrons of Blackhawks to the coordination of the divergent 


 aspects of public affairs one can not help but be stunned the 


 complexity of our effort in Iraq and most importantly the 


 professionalism in which the effort is carried out.



 Accompanying that professionalism is the humanity of these 


 Soldiers who have sacrificed so much for us and of which we 


 sadly know so little. Their stories should be told and retold 


 for they are the heroes that we should be emulating. In 


 Baghdad I was fortunate to be allowed to stay in visitors 


 quarters and was escorted by a National Guard Unit from 


 Kentucky. I like most people had a somewhat diminished view 


 of the National Guard. I got to know these individuals quite 


 well and dramatically experienced that same level of 


 professionalism first hand. I was learning the history of the 


 county in Kentucky where my escort was from when a fire fight 


 broke out across the lake. After a number of minutes of 


 continuous fighting the Sgt's unit was notified that they 


 would be joining the fight. In an instant the calm of the 


 mess was transformed as these soldiers prepared for combat. 


 Three vehicles and 15 men would be heading out to the streets 


 of Baghdad. Everyone knew their job precisely. The guns were 


 mounted as the computers were spun up. Communications were 


 checked and every individual soldier completed their own 


 mental checklist. As if in a heart beat I watched as men did 


 what I initially thought was a transformation from escort to 


 Soldier but what I watched was in fact was a Soldier 


 performing one job and then another, both to the highest 


 professional standards.



 Over the next few weeks Americans will argue over and 


 eventually vote for their choice as to who is going to get 


 the title of ''AMERICAN IDOL ''. They will watch transfixed 


 as young athletes perform at the highest possible level to 


 gain the title of National Champion of College Basketball. 


 Millions will flock to the baseball stadiums of America to 


 watch in awe as their teams begin their long journey to be 


 named as The World Champions of Baseball. All that should 


 pale before your eyes for those Wondrous Warriors who seek 


 not the accolades but unselfishly protect your very freedoms 


 have already earned the right to be crowned as World and 


 National Champions and are in fact ''THE TRUE AMERICAN 


 IDOLS'' for everyday they place their lives on the line for 


 us.
