# VETERANS' EPILEPSY TREATMENT ACT OF 2008
## `b89a31f463a454c8c7cf83cd2eb52d80`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 24 June 2008`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. I thank Mr. Filner for this opportunity.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2818, the Veterans' 
Epilepsy Treatment Act, which establishes a national epilepsy network 
within the Veterans Affairs health care system.

I introduced H.R. 2818 on June 21, 2007, and now, 1 year later, I'm 
pleased it was reported out of the VA Committee by a voice vote.

The measure has the support and sponsorship of 135 Members of 
Congress. And I want to thank Chairman Filner, Subcommittee Chairman 
Michaud, Ranking Member Buyer, Mr. Miller from Florida, and their staff 
for the work they do on behalf of our Nation's veterans and for their 
work on H.R. 2818.

I also want to thank Majority Leader Hoyer for the interest he has 
taken in this bill, and Rick Palacio from his office.

H.R. 2818, the Veterans' Epilepsy Treatment Act, will establish five 
epilepsy treatment centers called Epilepsy Centers of Excellence which 
are going to be co-located at the VA polytrauma centers in Palo Alto, 
Minneapolis, San Antonio, Richmond and Tampa. These centers will care 
for veterans experiencing seizures, and especially those we predict 
will develop epilepsy as a result of suffering traumatic brain injury 
while serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, we have a moral obligation to our service men and women 
who are defending our country overseas to help them when they return 
home. Our veterans health care system is the best in the world, and 
H.R. 2818 will make our system even stronger.



Today estimates show some 89,000 veterans have epilepsy and 42 
percent of that number is service connected.

Epilepsy is often defined as two or more seizures, and during 
Vietnam, a number of men and women returned home with head wounds and 
head injuries. Of those who came home with these types of injuries, 
some 53 percent developed epilepsy within 15 years thereafter; 15 
percent of those who developed epilepsy did so 5 years or more after 
their combat injuries.

For these service-connected injuries, the relative risk for 
developing epilepsy is 25 times higher than in the population as a 
whole. These statistics indicate the number of veterans who will 
develop epilepsy due to the extended combat in Iraq and Afghanistan is 
only going to rise. And with the IED injuries that our men and women 
have suffered, we know that that's going to occur. That is why we need 
expert clinical and research staff to work together to diagnose, care 
for, and research the long-term effects of epilepsy.

This bill takes those steps by creating a National Epilepsy Program 
through the establishment of five sophisticated centers for epilepsy 
care. In addition, each Veterans Integrated Service Network, or VISN, 
will have an epilepsy referral clinic and the VA's telehealth capacity 
will be expanded to track the neurological diagnostic tests of our 
rural veterans. These centers will develop and administer treatments 
and possibly cures for our veterans, allowing them to live their lives 
to the fullest.

It establishes a National Coordinator For Epilepsy within the VA 
system, and it will provide educational materials throughout the 
country to assist people in dealing with epilepsy or those who may come 
into contact with people with epilepsy.

Moreover, the body of knowledge developed through the research 
conducted by the VA will help our society as a whole. And I will admit 
to having a child with epilepsy, and, quite frankly, if, in fact, the 
research that's developed by the VA assists her, I will be very 
thankful for that on a personal basis.

The bill authorizes expenditures of $5 million per year for the years 
2009-2013. A small price to diagnose, treat, and research epilepsy for 
those who have served us so valiantly all around the globe.

Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting 
H.R. 2818, the Veterans Epilepsy Treatment Act. I want to thank the 
Epilepsy Foundation, the Brain Injury Association, the American Academy 
of Neurology, the Disabled American Veterans, the Paralyzed Veterans of 
America, the Blinded Veterans, and the Vietnam Vets of America for 
their support of this bill. Again, I want to thank the VA Committee for 
supporting this bill and voting it out by a voice vote.