# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `b8a6d3e10b7e35b426ac449e3c1ff03f`
`Mr. McCAIN — 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, let us proceed with this debate, keeping 
in mind that the underlying bill, the National Defense Authorization 
Act, contains many non-Iraq provisions which constitute good defense 
policy and which will strengthen the ability of our country to defend 
itself. That is why the committee voted unanimously to report the bill, 
which fully funds the President's $648 billion defense budget request, 
authorizes a 3.5-percent pay raise for all military personnel, 
increases Army and Marine end-strength, reforms the system that serves 
wounded veterans, and provides necessary measures to avoid waste, 
fraud, and abuse in defense procurement. It is a good bill. It is a 
bipartisan bill. I believe we need to send it to the President's desk.

While the Senate moved off the bill in July and on to other things 
and then went on to a month-long recess, America's soldiers, marines, 
sailors, and airmen continued fighting bravely and tenaciously in Iraq 
in concert with their Iraqi counterparts. Some Senators undoubtedly 
welcomed the delay in considering the Defense bill, believing that 
General Petraeus would deliver to Congress a report filled only with 
defeat and despair. If this was their hope, they were sorely 
disappointed. As we all now know, General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker reported what some of us argued before the bill was pulled 2 
months ago: that the surge is working, that we are making progress 
toward our goals, and that success, while long, hard, and by no means 
certain, is possible. We are succeeding only after 4 years of failures, 
years which have exacted an enormous cost on our country and on the 
brave men and women who fight in Iraq on our behalf.

Some of us from the beginning warned against the Rumsfeld strategy of 
too few troops, insufficient resources, and a plan predicated on hope 
rather than on the difficult business of stabilization and 
counterinsurgency. We lost years to that strategy, years we cannot get 
back. In the process, the American people became saddened, frustrated, 
and angry. I, too, am heartsick at the terrible price we have paid for 
nearly 4 years of mismanaged war. But I also know America cannot simply 
end this effort in frustration and accept the terrible consequences of 
defeat in Iraq. We cannot choose to lose in Iraq. I believe we must 
give our commanders the time and support they have asked for to win 
this conflict.

Ralph Peters, the distinguished military strategist, summed it up 
best, noting that Congress's failure to support General Petraeus:




 Would be a shame, since, after nearly 4 years of getting it 


 miserably wrong in Iraq, we are finally getting it right.


In 2 days of testimony and countless interviews, General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker described how we are finally getting it right. We 
finally have in place a counterinsurgency strategy, one we should have 
been following from the beginning, which makes the most effective use 
of our strength and does not advance the tactics of our enemy. This new 
strategy, backed by a tactical surge in troops, is the only approach 
that has resulted in real security improvements in Iraq.

General Petraeus reported that the overall number of ''security 
incidents'' in Iraq has declined in 8 of the last 12 weeks and that 
sectarian violence has dropped substantially since the change in 
strategy. Civilian deaths nationwide are down by nearly half since 
December and have dropped by some 70 percent in Baghdad. Deaths 
resulting from sectarian violence have come down by 80 percent since 
December, and the number of car bombings and suicide attacks has 
declined in each of the past 5 months. Anyone who has traveled recently 
to Anbar or Diyala or Baghdad can see the improvements that have taken 
place over the past months. With violence down, commerce has risen, and 
the bottom-up efforts to forge counterterrorism alliances are bearing 
tangible fruit. This is not to argue that Baghdad or other areas have 
suddenly become safe--they have not--but such positive developments 
illustrate General Petraeus's contention that Americans and Iraqi 
forces have achieved substantial progress.

There are many challenges remaining, and the road ahead is long and 
tough. The Maliki government has not taken advantage of our efforts to 
enable reconciliation and is not functioning as it must. While violence 
has declined significantly, it remains high, and success is not 
certain. We can be sure, however, that should the Congress choose to 
lose by legislating a date for withdrawal, and thus surrender, or by 
mandating a change in mission that would undermine our efforts in Iraq, 
then we will fail for certain. Make no mistake, the consequences of 
America's defeat in Iraq will be terrible and long lasting.

There is in some corners a belief that we can simply turn the page in 
Iraq, come home, and move on to other things. This is dangerously 
wrong. If we surrender in Iraq, we will be back--in Iraq and 
elsewhere--in many more desperate fights to protect our security and at 
an even greater cost in American lives and treasure. Two weeks ago, 
General Jim Jones testified before the Armed Services Committee and 
outlined what he believes to be the consequences of such a course: ''a 
precipitous departure which results in a failed state in Iraq,'' he 
said, ''will have a significant boost in the numbers of extremists, 
jihadists, in the world, who will believe that they will have toppled 
the major power on Earth and that all else is possible. And I think it 
will not only make us less safe; it will make our friends and allies 
less safe. And the struggle will continue. It will simply be done in 
different and in other areas.''

Some Senators would like to withdraw our troops from Iraq so we can 
get back to fighting what they believe to be the real war on terror. 
This, too, is inaccurate. Iraq has become the central front in the 
global war on terror, and failure there would turn Iraq into a 
terrorist sanctuary, in the heart of the Middle East, next door to 
Iran, the world's largest state-sponsor of terrorism. If we fail in 
Iraq, we will concede territory to jihadists to plan attacks against 
America and our friends and allies. The region could easily descend 
into chaos, wider war, and genocide, and we should have no doubt about 
who will take advantage.

The Iranian President has stated his intentions bluntly. This is the 
same fellow who announced his dedication and his nation's dedication to 
the extinction of the state of Israel the same President of the country 
that is exporting lethal explosive devices of the most lethal and 
dangerous kind into Iraq, killing American service men and women. This 
President said this:




 Soon, we will see a huge power vacuum in the region. Of 


 course, we are prepared to fill the gap.


We cannot allow an Iranian dominated Middle East to take shape in the 
context of wider war and terrorist safehavens. General Jones is just 
one of many distinguished national security experts who warn against 
the consequences of a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq. As Brent 
Scowcroft said, ''The costs of staying are visible; the costs of 
getting out are almost never discussed . . . If we get out before Iraq 
is stable, the entire Middle East region might start to resemble Iraq 
today. Getting out is not a solution.'' Natan Sharansky has, written 
that a precipitous withdrawal of U.S. forces ''could lead to a 
bloodbath that would make the current carnage pale by comparison.'' And 
Henry Kissinger warns that, ''An abrupt withdrawal from Iraq would not 
end the war; it would only redirect it.''

The proponents of withdrawal counter that none of these terrible 
consequences would unfold should any of their various proposals become 
law. On the contrary, they argue, U.S. forces could, when not engaged 
in training the Iraqi forces, engage in targeted counterterrorism 
operations. But our own military commanders say that such a narrow 
approach to the complex Iraqi security environment will not succeed, 
and that moving in with search and destroy missions to kill and capture 
terrorists, only to immediately cede the territory to the enemy, is a 
recipe for failure. How can they be so sure? It's simple--this focus on 
training and counterterrorism constitutes the very strategy that so 
plainly failed for the first four years of this war. To return to such 
an unsuccessful approach is truly ''staying the course,'' and it is a 
course that will inevitably lead to our defeat and to catastrophic


consequences for Iraq, the region, and the security of the United 
States.

General Petraeus and his commanders have embraced a new strategy, one 
that can, over time, lead to success in Iraq. They are fighting smarter 
and better, and in a way that can give Iraqis the security and 
opportunity to make decisions necessary to save their country from the 
abyss of genocide and a permanent and spreading war, and in a way that 
will safeguard fundamental American interests. They ask just two things 
of us: the time to continue this strategy and the support they need to 
carry out their mission. They must have both, and I will fight to 
ensure that they do.

As we engage in this debate, I hope that each of us will recall our 
most solemn allegiance, which is not to party or politics but to 
country. I have heard on this floor the claim that our efforts in Iraq 
somehow constitute ''Bush's war'' or the ''Republican war.'' Nothing 
could be farther from the truth. Presidents do not lose wars. Political 
parties do not lose wars. Nations lose wars and suffer the 
consequences, or prevail and enjoy the blessings of their success.

All of us want our troops to come home, and to come home as soon as 
possible. But we should want our soldiers to return to us with honor, 
the honor of victory that is due all of those who have paid with the 
ultimate sacrifice. We have many responsibilities to the people who 
elected us, but one responsibility outweighs all the others, and that 
is to protect this great and good Nation from all enemies foreign and 
domestic.

This is a serious debate and one we engage at a time of national 
peril. The Americans who make the greatest sacrifices have earned the 
right to insist that we do our duty, as best we can and remember to 
whom and what we owe our first allegiance--to the security of the 
American people and to the ideals upon which our Nation was founded.