# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `b8c1ed3c0320aee9686910523574d129`
`Mr. REID — 16 April 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, my distinguished counterpart, the Senator 
from


Kentucky, Senator McConnell, held a press conference at 2:30, talking 
about what the Senate has not accomplished this year. I, of course, am 
very disappointed in that because I thought we had done a lot. I 
believe we have produced.

The minority talk a lot about their desire to see this Congress pass 
meaningful legislation. They talk a lot about supporting our troops. We 
have heard a lot from them about the need to defeat terrorists and make 
the country more secure. Their actions do not match their rhetoric. In 
far too many instances, our Republican colleagues say one thing and do 
another.

Last week, the 110th Congress reached its 100th day. In that time, 
the Senate has passed a series of bills that would move our country 
forward. With bipartisan support, we passed the toughest lobbying 
ethics reform legislation in the entire history of our country. With 
bipartisan support, we voted to give working Americans a much deserved 
and long overdue raise in the minimum wage. With bipartisan support, we 
passed a continuing resolution that enacted tough spending limits and 
eliminated earmarks for this year. With bipartisan support, we passed 
every single recommendation of the 9/11 Commission, after it languished 
in the Republican-controlled Congress for 2/1/2/ years. With bipartisan 
support, we passed a responsible, balanced, pay-as-you-go budget that 
reduces taxes for working Americans and invests more in education, 
veterans, and health care. With bipartisan support, we passed 
legislation that would fully fund our troops while forcing the 
President to change course in Iraq. And, last week, with bipartisan 
support, once again, we passed legislation to open the promise of stem 
cell research in a responsible and ethical way.

The American people want Congress to put petty bickering aside. This 
is exactly what I believe this Congress has done. It has not been easy. 
My Republican colleagues have, time and time again, allowed a small 
minority in their caucus to block progress that the American people, 
and a bipartisan majority of the Senate, demand. On every piece of 
legislation I mentioned, we have had to file cloture.

Sadly, on the most important issue facing our country, national 
security, this has been especially apparent. The minority forced us to 
come up with 60 votes to pass the 9/11 Commission recommendations. They 
required the same for the Iraq supplemental bill.

Now it appears this same group of Republicans will attempt to block 
passage of the Intelligence Authorization bill, the bill they wrote 
when they were in the majority but failed to pass for 2 years. As 
everyone knows, the Intelligence Authorization bill funds the operation 
of 16 agencies of the U.S. intelligence community, including the CIA, 
the FBI, the National Security Agency, the Defense Department, and all 
the critical work they do in fighting the war on terror. We are so 
fortunate that we have bipartisan cooperation of the management of the 
Intelligence Committee. Senator Rockefeller and Senator Bond have 
worked closely together. They want this legislation to move forward.

This should not be a partisan issue. We had to vote to get 60 votes 
to proceed to the legislation. I said at that time, if you want to 
offer amendments while we are in the 30 hours postcloture time, do it. 
Now I am told the ability for us to get on the bill is going to be 
thwarted by not allowing us to have 60 votes.

I was upstairs this afternoon in room 407, getting a briefing on 
issues that are important to our country. It is so important that we 
move forward on this legislation and support our people who are making 
America safe and secure and protecting our interests all around the 
world. Sixteen agencies, I repeat, of the U.S. intelligence community 
want this legislation passed.

We are in a battle around the world on terrorism. Shouldn't our 
intelligence community be able to move forward with this legislation? I 
repeat: It was written by the Republicans. Why would they not let us go 
forward on this legislation? Is it because--I don't know. Is it because 
Vice President Cheney thinks he is going to lose a little of his power 
directing everything covert that goes on in the intelligence community? 
Is he the one stopping this? Why? Why can't we pass legislation that 
was written by the Republicans to improve our intelligence operations?

This legislation includes essential initiatives that would improve 
our efforts to fight terrorism and control weapons of mass destruction, 
enhance our intelligence collection capabilities, and strengthen 
intelligence oversight. Does anybody dispute that? For 27 years, since 
we first started doing an Intelligence bill, we passed it every year. 
But not the last 2 years. Blocking passage of the bill leaves Congress 
silent on these important matters, dealing with terrorism, weapons of 
mass destruction, intelligence collection capabilities, and 
intelligence oversight. It is so important to pass this bill. This is 
not a partisan issue. I don't think there are political points to be 
scored on either side.

I hope my friends on the other side of the aisle will let this 
legislation go forward. We have a managers' amendment that Senator 
Rockefeller and Senator Bond worked on that would be accepted. I cannot 
imagine why we would be stopped on an Intelligence authorization. I 
have been told that the word is out, the Republicans are not going to 
support cloture on this most important bill.


My friend, the distinguished Republican leader, pointed out this 
afternoon that we filed cloture a number of times this year. We surely 
have. We surely have, because there has been a minority of people on 
the other side who forced us to do this. The bills we passed have been 
bipartisan: Ethics/lobbying reform got a big bipartisan vote; minimum 
wage, big bipartisan vote; the continuing resolution, a big bipartisan 
vote--we had to do that to fund the Government--the 9/11 Commission 
recommendations, big bipartisan vote; stem cell, big bipartisan vote; 
the supplemental, a bipartisan vote. Sure, we have had to file cloture 
because there has been a minority of Senators on the other side who 
forced us to do that on these bipartisan bills.

My friend, the minority leader, is right, we have filed cloture a 
number of times. The fact is, his side forced us to do so rather than 
let us proceed directly to these bills--and this bill. We have been 
forced to jump through a number of procedural hoops designed to block 
legislation that enjoyed bipartisan support.

I will continue to do that. I understand the rights of just a few 
Senators and if a few Senators want to stop us from moving forward, 
that is fine. But to think that we couldn't get 10 Republicans to 
support us on a motion to invoke cloture on an Intelligence 
authorization bill? That is beyond my ability to comprehend, why the 
Republicans would stop us from moving forward on an Intelligence 
authorization bill. I have said they can offer amendments to the bill. 
Even though I thought it was absolutely wrong that we had to vote 
cloture on the motion to proceed, I said, during the 30 hours, if you 
want to offer amendments, go ahead and do so. ''No.''

This is not ethics reform, it is not minimum wage, it is not stem 
cell research, it is not the continuing resolution--it is the ability 
of our intelligence agencies to do their work: the CIA, FBI, NSA, 
Defense Department. I urge the minority to not stop this bill from 
going forward. The vote is at 5:30. But that is what I am told is going 
to happen. Their actions, if in fact they follow through on this, are 
not in the best interests of the American people. Anyone who has been 
told that they are being stymied from offering amendments is not being 
told the truth.

We will continue to work in a bipartisan manner to move our country 
forward. The bills that passed this body so far this year have been 
bipartisan, with overwhelming support, and, yes, we did have to file 
cloture because a small number of people held us up from moving on this 
most important piece of legislation.

I hope there will be people who will move away from this madding 
crowd who will not allow us to help these agencies do their work.