---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `b8c40bd487408960bf57d2598c4cbc59`
`Mr. DORGAN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I wish to comment very briefly on 
legislation that Senator Larry Craig of Idaho and I are introducing 
today. It is a bipartisan piece of energy legislation. I wish to 
describe it briefly.

We are in the process, this year, of trying to put together another 
Energy bill. I am on the authorizing committee. So with the leadership 
of Senator Bingaman and Senator Domenici and others of us on the 
authorizing committee, we will try to write a new Energy bill. That 
bill has a lot to do with security--oil security, energy security but 
the security of our country as well.

If we woke up some morning and terrorists had interrupted the supply 
of oil to our country, we would be in a desperate condition. On this 
Earth of ours, this planet, we stick straws in the planet and suck out 
oil--about 84 million barrels of oil a day. Of the 84 million barrels a 
day that is taken out of this planet, 21 million barrels is used in the 
United States. One-fourth of all the oil is used in this little patch 
of ground called the United States.

Nearly 65 percent comes from outside our country, much of it from 
very troubled parts of the world--Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, 
Venezuela. We are desperately dependent on oil from other countries--
again, in many areas, troubled countries in the world.

We have to find a way to move toward energy independence. Senator 
Craig, a Republican, and I, a Democrat, have worked on a bipartisan 
basis to introduce legislation that has been put together for nearly 2 
years now by an organization of retired business executives, retired 
military officers, to talk about reducing the oil intensity in this 
country, especially dealing with transportation.

Nearly 70 percent of all the oil we use is used in transportation. We 
run it right through our vehicles, by and large, and 70 percent of it 
is used in the transportation sector; and that line is going up, up--
way up. We need to find ways to address this issue of our unbelievable 
dependence on foreign oil and the substantial increase in oil intensity 
in the transportation sector.

So we are introducing a piece of legislation that does a lot of 
things. A, it demands that vehicles be more efficient. And we are not 
leaving out any vehicles. This includes big trucks. Get a car these 
days and compare it to a car you would have purchased 10 years ago--
identical models--and what you will find, I bet, is there has not been 
one bit of progress in fuel efficiency in 10 years.

Oh, the car company will say: That is not true. This is much more 
efficient. It is heavier, but you get the same gas mileage, even though 
you are actually pulling more weight. That is all baloney. The fact is, 
in terms of how much oil we use, we are not making any progress on 
efficiency. As a result of that, I believe, finally, it is long past 
the time when we ought to demand increases in the efficiency in our 
vehicle fleet.

Second, we believe we are going to have to find additional oil. I 
understand that digging and drilling, which I call ''yesterday 
forever'' as an energy strategy, is not the only strategy, but we do 
have to find some additional oil. We believe we should open up 
additional lands in the Gulf of Mexico, where the substantial quantity 
exists. We would do it by protecting beaches and protecting the 
viewshed, but there is substantial energy there we ought to be able to 
get.

Third: a dramatic increase in renewable energy. Yes, cellulosic 
ethanol, biodiesel, and a whole series of areas of achieving 
substantial additional renewable energy--all of that is achievable if 
we decide as a country to establish that as a goal.

We believe doing a number of things, some of which are very 
controversial, to both increase production and decrease use--that is 
through conservation and efficiency--can move us to a much less oil-
intensive economy.

Now, there is more to do. The larger, comprehensive bill will have to 
include the issues of electrogeneration and transmission, and all these 
other issues. We are dealing, in the legislation Senator Craig and I 
are introducing today, with the question of oil intensity in the 
transportation sector, which is a very substantial part of our oil 
usage.

Now, we do not believe necessarily that somebody is going to say: 
Well, do you know what? Let's take this entire bill as it has been 
written and have a vote tomorrow. We understand that is not the way it 
works. But we do believe it is important for us to take a hard look at 
these energy issues from a security standpoint.



We talk about energy in many ways too casually. Our country runs on 
energy. Especially the issue of oil is a very important issue because 
so much of it comes from off our shores. So much of it comes in 
circumstances that we have very little control over.

From an energy standpoint, I was thinking the other day about a visit 
I had with our former colleague, John Glenn, who described to me, late 
one night on an airplane as we were flying over the Pacific on our way 
to Asia--I was pumping him with questions because I was a young boy as 
I listened on the radio about his space flight. I was asking John about 
all of this, and I had read about the time when the city of Perth, 
Australia, I think it was, decided to light every light bulb in the 
city as a signal to this astronaut flying up there alone circling the 
Earth.

John Glenn told me, when I asked him the question: As you reached the 
dark side and looked, did you ever see Perth, Australia, because they 
lit all the lights of the town to signal you?--and he said he did. He 
looked down.

The only evidence of life on Earth on the dark side was to see a 
shining light that was then Perth, Australia. But that light was, of 
course, a product of energy--energy produced by human beings to make 
life better on this Earth. So now we come to the year 2007, living in 
the greatest country on Earth--but an unbelievable, prodigious consumer 
of energy--in a situation where we do not have a secure energy supply, 
with 60 to 65 percent of our oil coming from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, 
Iraq, Venezuela, and other parts of the world where there is great 
turbulence.

So the question for this Congress is what to do about that. The 
answer is, as is the case in all areas of security, we need to be 
concerned and we need to take action to become less dependent and more 
independent, to the extent we can, on foreign oil.

So working with a wide group of interests, with an organization that 
has been working now for several years to put this plan together, 
Senator Craig and I are introducing this legislation today in the 
Senate. I wish to take a brief moment to comment about what that plan 
is.

We take--pretty much all of us take--energy for granted. We live a 
great life. For light, we simply turn on a switch. To move someplace, 
we turn a key and gasoline flows from the tank, through the carburetor, 
the fuel injector, and we do not think much about that. But it has 
given us a pretty unbelievable life. Through it all, we have never had 
to be very conscious about saving, economizing, efficiency, 
conservation, and we have not had to be as conscious as we should be 
now about where oil comes from.

For that reason, we have introduced a piece of legislation that I 
think has substantial merit. We will work with Senator Bingaman and 
Senator Domenici and others on the authorizing committee to incorporate 
the provisions and the ideas that are represented in this plan as a new 
approach to energy in our country's future.