---
---

# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `b8ede7ddc882458ea7a8a87576489541`
`Mr. CONYERS — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we have never fought a war in 
which private contractors not only outnumber United States troops, as 
they do in Iraq, but perform many tasks that are very similar to those 
historically performed by our troops. A critical difference, however, 
is that these contractors, unlike our troops, are not subject to the 
requirements of military discipline and United States law governing the 
conduct of warfare. Further, they are also immune from Iraqi law.

As we know, last month contractors working for Blackwater allegedly 
opened fire in a Baghdad neighborhood, killing at least 11 Iraqi 
civilians. A witness told a CNN reporter, ''Each of their four vehicles 
opened heavy fire in all directions. They shot and killed everyone in 
cars facing them and people standing on the street.'' Another witness, 
whose youngest son was killed during the attack, likened the event to 
''hell, like a scene from a movie.''

This latest incident unfortunately evidences the fact that some of 
these contractors are abusing their power with impunity, subject to no 
law whatsoever, domestic or foreign. H.R. 2740 corrects this serious 
gap in current law.

Specifically, it amends the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction 
Act, known as MEJA, in three critical respects: First, it closes the 
legal gap in current law by making all contractors accountable for 
their actions. MEJA currently only extends U.S. Federal criminal 
jurisdiction to felony crimes committed overseas by contractors working 
on behalf of the Defense Department.



This measure specifies that the act would apply to all contractors, 
regardless of the agency for which they provide services.

Second, this measure requires that the Inspector General of the 
Justice Department examine and report on the Department's efforts to 
investigate and prosecute allegations of misconduct committed by 
contractors overseas.

Since the Iraq war started, the Department has failed to commence a 
single prosecution against a contractor under the Military 
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act. Sadly, last month's Blackwater 
incident was not the first time contractors have acted abusively 
without any accountability.

On Monday, we learned that Blackwater was involved in at least 195 
shooting incidents in Iraq since the year 2005. And Blackwater isn't 
the only culpable company. In 2005, armed contractors from the Zapata 
contracting firm allegedly fired indiscriminately not only at Iraqi 
civilians, but also at United States Marines. In 2006, employees of 
Aegis, another security firm, posted a trophy video on the Internet 
that showed them shooting civilians. And employees of Triple Canopy, 
yet another contractor, were fired after alleging that a supervisor 
engaged in a ''joyride shooting'' of Iraqi civilians. These cases, and 
all like them, should be appropriately investigated and prosecuted, if 
warranted.

Third, H.R. 2740 establishes ground units of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation to investigate allegations of


criminal misconduct by contractors. Notwithstanding the fact that more 
than 180,000 contractors are currently operating in Iraq, there is not 
a single investigative unit located in that country.

Pursuant to a directive of the administration, FBI agents are 
belatedly being sent to investigate the Blackwater crime scene in many 
instances where the evidence has long disappeared. Without a mandated 
investigating unit, the Justice Department lacks the ability or the 
incentive to respond effectively. And so, to our colleague from North 
Carolina, David Price, the author of H.R. 2740, we fixed that 
shortcoming. And I acknowledge the sponsor for his sustained leadership 
on this important issue of ensuring that those acting in our name will 
be held legally accountable for their conduct.

This legislation is widely supported, including the Human Rights 
Watch, Human Rights First, the International Peace Operations 
Association, and Amnesty International.

The need for us remedying the problem described is extremely urgent. 
I urge my colleagues to join with me in support of its swift passage.

Madam Chairwoman, I reserve the balance of my time.