---
---

# None
## `b8f32979059011a554556fd4e2686d44`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, the matter before the Senate now that 
is currently being blocked by the minority is a bill that would permit 
work to proceed on hundreds of highway and transportation 
infrastructure projects, creating tens of thousands of construction 
jobs, and pouring $1 billion into our economy. This is timely 
legislation to repair our roads and bridges now, while our economy 
needs the work. Yet this bill is stalled in this body because 
Republicans in the Senate will not allow it to move forward.

Unfortunately, we have seen this movie too many times. The minority 
has engaged in no less than 65 filibusters in this Congress--an 
astounding number that lays bare the minority's lack of interest in 
solving the real problems America faces. What a record--65 filibusters, 
the most ever. That is what the minority has to contribute to the 
problems America is facing.

A number of our Republican colleagues have come to the floor of the 
Senate to speak today, but we have


heard very little in the way of substantive or reasonable objections to 
the highway bill. Instead, what we have heard is a lot of talk about 
taxes. Of course taxes are on the minds of many Americans today. It is, 
after all, April 15, filing day, the deadline for Federal and State tax 
returns to be filed. Today, we should remember that the work of 
Government does not just cost money, it costs our money. For that 
reason, we should ask how this Government is spending our hard-earned 
money and whether the priorities reflected in the Federal Government's 
spending are truly the right priorities for our people and for our 
time.

These are difficult days. Today, families throughout my State of 
Rhode Island and all across this country are reading their bank 
statements, opening their bills, reading their local newspapers, and 
finding that the looming downturn in the economy leaves them struggling 
to make ends meet. Everywhere we look, prices are rising, from the 
groceries that feed our families to the gasoline that fuels our cars. 
Every day, more Americans face the disaster of foreclosure. Every day, 
more Americans face the nightmare of catastrophic health care bills.

In these days of insecurity, the people of this country are looking 
for answers, for solutions, for a new direction. Democrats in the 
Senate are working overtime to provide that new direction. We passed an 
economic stimulus package, legislation to address the housing crisis, 
and a budget plan to put our Government back on the path to surplus and 
cut taxes for middle-class families. We know we need a change of course 
and, most particularly, a change of leadership in the White House to 
get our country back on track.

But Senate Republicans today are making it clear that they do not 
agree. Instead of putting working families first, instead of getting 
our infrastructure repaired, they want to protect the massive Bush tax 
cuts for the wealthiest Americans, a fiscally irresponsible policy that 
has left our country trillions of dollars in debt. Instead of a budget 
that focuses Federal Government spending on our children and our 
veterans, Republicans want to stick us with the status quo, pouring 
hundreds of billions of dollars into an endless war in Iraq without 
spending a dime here at home to fix the problems that face American 
families.

Senate Democrats support tax cuts for middle-class families, 
including targeted help for families with children or seeking to adopt 
a child. Indeed, the budget resolution this year would provide those 
tax cuts in a fiscally responsible way, without digging our country 
deeper into debt. But President Bush and his Republican allies in the 
Senate want to extend the extravagant portions of the 2001 to 2003 Bush 
tax breaks that are weighted heavily toward the wealthiest Americans.

Mr. President, 71 percent of the value of the tax cuts in 2009 will 
go to the wealthiest fifth of Americans, and 28 percent of the value of 
the tax cuts goes to the top 1 percent, a group whose incomes average 
around $1.5 million a year--clearly people who are hurting and need a 
lot of help from our Government right now. Almost nothing at all goes 
to the lowest earning fifth, families who earn $15,000 a year or less. 
This is the George Bush idea of fair tax policy.

The President's insistence on forcing through these cuts without 
making up for the lost revenue, to defer that pain to later 
generations--to our children, to our grandchildren--was not only 
cowardly leadership, it left our budget in precarious straits. The Bush 
tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 cost a staggering $1.9 trillion, and they 
account for 25 percent of the $7.7 trillion Bush Debt. The $7.7 
trillion Bush Debt is the difference between the nonpartisan 
Congressional Budget Office projections as President Clinton left 
office compared to the budgetary nightmare George Bush created--$7.7 
trillion.

I am from Rhode Island. One trillion dollars is an unthinkable amount 
of money in a small State such as Rhode Island. I do not know what $7.7 
trillion is. So I have tried to scale it for myself. I have here in my 
hand a simple penny. A simple penny. If this simple penny were $1 
billion--now, even in Rhode Island $1 billion is big money--if this 
simple penny were $1 billion, $7.7 trillion is a stack of these simple 
billion-dollar pennies that is 39 feet high, takes us right to the top 
of this room with a simple penny being a full billion dollars.

It is an astonishing burden for this country to have to bear. It is 
the responsibility of George Bush and the Republicans, and we have to 
get serious about it. But are the Senate Republicans willing to get 
serious about it? No. If they have their way, the wealthiest Americans 
will continue to profit to the tune of trillions of borrowed dollars 
while those most in need receive virtually nothing. According to the 
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the poorest Americans--the 
lowest 20 percent of income earners would receive less than 0.5 percent 
of the value of extending Bush tax cuts between 2009 and 2018. The top 
20 percent, on the other hand, would receive a staggering 74 percent of 
the value, a total of nearly $4 trillion over that 10-year period.

And, of course, this is Bush tax policy, so the higher the income, 
the greater the benefit. Close to $1.2 trillion in Bush tax cuts would 
accrue to the top 1 percent of American households. Households with 
annual incomes of more than $1 million a year, those alone receive $834 
billion, $834 billion in extended Bush tax cuts.

The reckless fixation on tax cuts for our wealthiest folks that the 
Bush administration has pursued is driving us to a bad place, to a 
divided America with two economies, a gilded economy for the wealthy, 
and a worried struggle for everyone else. That is not good for America. 
In fact, that is not America. But this does not seem to bother our 
Republican friends. They have hitched their wagons to the big winners 
in the gilded economy: the oil companies, the pharmaceutical companies, 
the billionaires. The two economies, well, that is fine with them so 
long as their friends are winning. But that is not good for America.

In fact, that is not America, not the one we know. The tool they have 
used over and over and over is the filibuster. With a $7.7 trillion 
Bush Debt foundering us, with families across the country in their home 
States, everyone struggling, you would think they would want their role 
to be more productive than being the biggest filibusters in American 
history. You would think they would want a more productive record and 
legacy than that. But, no, they want to dig a $7.7 trillion hole and 
then filibuster the folks who are trying to get America out of it. It 
is so clear that Senate Republicans would prefer to engage in 
overheated and overhyped tax rhetoric than they would roll up their 
sleeves, sit down, and get to work on legislation solving the real 
problems working Americans are facing across our country each day.

I will tell you, it is clear and it is disappointing.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.