# PROVIDING FOR FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5658, DUNCAN HUNTER  NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `b8fd1a760b054130fd2fc2111ad58645`
`Mr. SHAYS â€” 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. SHAYS. It's kind of a mouthful to hear this is a bipartisan bill 
when 42 amendments go to Democrats and 14 go to Republicans. That's one 
Republican amendment for every three Democratic amendments. But it's a 
bipartisan bill?

It's kind of amazing for me to hear Democrats who talk about the war 
and talk about the need for Iraqis to start to cover their own 
expenses, and then they don't allow an amendment that says, when we 
train their security, we pay. The Iraqis don't have to pay the bill. In 
this legislation if we use our $1 billion that's in the section 
provided the Iraqis don't have to pay us back. Our amendment would 
treat it as a loan.

This amendment is not being allowed on the floor today. Why not? Why 
not have a debate about whether the Iraqis should have to pay for their 
own expenditures, for their own security, when they have amassed over 
$40 billion in a separate fund that they're not spending, and they have 
over $15 billion in their checking account which continues to grow each 
and every day.

Why wasn't our amendment allowed? There's a simple reason. It would 
have passed.

What a fraud to say you want Iraqis to pay, and you won't even allow 
an amendment to be offered on the floor of the House that would require 
them to pay.

Mr. Speaker, there is no reason not to have this debate. There is no 
reason not to educate ourselves about the dollars that the Iraqis have 
that they're not spending. This is not a bipartisan debate. This is a 
partisan debate.



Anything to deal with Iraq, if you have Republicans who wanted to be 
part of the solution, you say, No way. It's just going to be our way or 
the highway.

I oppose this rule. It is a fraud to say it's bipartisan.