---
---

# PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `b900670b93117f2967b155603e86701d`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 27 July 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished manager and I 
really applaud Congressman Kucinich for allowing us to come to the 
floor today and discuss a crucial aspect of America's foreign policy.

Frankly, I believe it is time for us to come home from Afghanistan, 
having just returned just over 2 weeks ago, in the early part of July, 
when I was able to see the enormity of corruption and the lack of 
standing up by the Afghan Government. But I saw the resilience of the 
United States military and the willingness of the people in Afghanistan 
to be able to desire a better quality of life. I think that we are now 
poised to build the Afghan national security forces and to remove our 
forces from the dangers of the Taliban neighbors who live in 
Afghanistan, who are not leaving, who have a difference of opinion.

In the instance of Pakistan, I think it is key that we recognize that 
there are some troubling circumstances. And yes, we do have some 
questions as relates to the people of Pakistan understanding the great 
humanitarian work that the American people have done; the work they've 
done with USAID, the work they've done in helping to build schools, and 
it is the responsibility of the Pakistan Government to be able to 
emphasize what the presence of the United States is all about.

I do not want boots on the ground dealing with hostility. We have 
boots on the ground all around the world, but they're not engaged in 
hostility. They're providing, if you will, a level of peacekeeping and 
friendship and cooperation.

Now we need to rid ourselves of the involvement of the ISI in 
undermining American soldiers in Afghanistan. They cannot be playing 
around with the Taliban while we are investing treasure. But at the 
same time Pakistani army or military forces is investing their treasure 
and we are trying to provide them with the training that is necessary.

I believe that what Congressman Kucinich has done here is important, 
and he is absolutely right to be able to have this discussion and to 
recognize that something is awry. We've got to work together on the 
humanitarian side to be able to inform the Pakistani people and the 
Pakistan Parliament and government officials to not run away from the 
humanitarian work that the United States is doing. We have just passed 
a multi-billion-dollar bill that is going to work on building and 
helping to rebuild Pakistan from the education and social and health 
care-wise.

So the training that is being done by our military should be done in 
a peaceful mode. That should be annunciated by the officials of the 
Pakistan Government, and they should not run away from the good things 
that we are doing there.

My concern to be able to acknowledge or affirm that we have troops 
there under the War Powers Act would suggest that we are there in a 
hostile manner.