# INCREASING THE STATUTORY LIMIT ON THE PUBLIC DEBT
## `b906e89107635b2c3da746895ddefa3e`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 27 September 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today to express my 
disappointment for having to vote yet again to increase the national 
debt limit. The Senate has been forced to take this vote on five 
occasions under this administration. In the intervening 6 years, the 
national debt has exploded by almost $3.4 trillion, or 61 percent.

The national debt now stands at $9 trillion.

To put this in terms that most of us can understand, this amounts to 
roughly $30,000 owed by every American.

Unfortunately, the debt forecast shows no signs of improving.

Over the next 5 years, the debt is projected to reach $11.3 trillion. 
By 2017, the Congressional Budget Office projects this figure will 
hover around $13 trillion. In this year alone, our national debt is 
slated to increase by almost $600 billion.

Maintaining this debt is not free. The interest charged on the amount 
we have borrowed grows each and every day. And, the more we borrow, the 
more we pay in interest.

 Over the next 10 years, the interest payments on the national debt 
are projected to total $2.8 trillion. This year, interest payments on 
the debt will reach $235 billion.

This means less money for the programs that matter most for working 
Americans.

Congressional Democrats have demonstrated a commitment to fiscal 
responsibility by passing pay-as-you-go budget rules that require 
Congress to offset new spending.

This Congress has worked to find ways to pay for major priorities--
such as the extension of the Children's Health Insurance Program, which 
I hope will pass today in the Senate with a bipartisan, veto-proof 
majority.

The fact that the Senate must vote, yet again, to increase the 
national borrowing limit begs the question: Why are we here?

Misguided tax policies are one of the reasons we are considering this 
measure today.

The President has presided over the greatest fiscal reversal in our 
Nation's history. He inherited a budget surplus of $236 billion from 
President Clinton, the largest surplus in American history.


He took that surplus and sunk it into expensive tax cuts at a cost of 
more than $1.3 trillion to date and $3 trillion over the next decade.

But what I find most frustrating, is that these tax cuts have come in 
the midst of significant military campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Never in the history of this Nation have we enacted significant tax 
cuts during a time of war.

We have dipped into the pockets of our children and grandchildren and 
''charged'' the costs of these wars to a National credit card.

When you combine the cost of the debt-financed tax cuts with spending 
for the military operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, and the global war on 
terror--currently approaching $610 billion--the inevitable result is 
that our Federal budget is squeezed, while our crushing debt continues 
to grow.

The reality is, even under a best-case scenario, we are years and 
hundreds of billions of dollars away from a full redeployment of 
American troops from Iraq.

The President will soon request another $190 billion in supplemental 
funding for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. And it is no longer 
unrealistic to suggest that operations there might cost upwards of $1 
trillion before all is said and done.

Year after year, supplemental after supplemental, we continue 
borrowing to pay for these wars.

In real terms, the cost is over $350 million per day. Almost $15 
million per hour; $250,000 per minute; or $4,000 every second.

We must recognize the mistakes of the past few years and understand 
that


you cannot have your cake and eat it too.

As we approach a $10 trillion debt limit, it is essential to look 
forward for solutions. Where do we go from here?

We start with responsible spending. While I support targeted tax cuts 
to help working families, it is time to allow the tax cuts for the 
wealthiest Americans to expire.

It would be unfair and irresponsible to not do so.

We need solutions to shore up our strained entitlement programs, such 
as Social Security and Medicare, as the retirement of baby boomers 
looms.

We need to adequately fund children's health and education programs 
and invest in the future of our young people.

We need to focus on foreign diplomacy to repair our reputation as a 
global leader.

We need to invest in homeland security and other domestic programs 
that will keep America safe and increase productivity.

Most importantly, we need to start planning for the future today.

Every day that we wait, hundreds of millions of dollars are spent, 
the debt increases, vital programs are under funded, and the cycle 
continues. We must do better.

I understand the political realities of this vote.

However, it is important to recognize the consequences of this 
measure failing. Not increasing the debt limit could result in the 
government defaulting on its obligations, exacerbating already shaky 
credit markets across the globe.

So while I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the measure to 
once again raise the debt limit, it is also my hope that my colleagues 
will join me in seeking real and permanent solutions to our Nation's 
fiscal problems.

Tax cuts, ''staying the course,'' and not addressing the future of 
our most critical entitlement programs are sometimes politically 
appealing policies, but they are also not responsible.

Responsible policies come from making the difficult choices that put 
America's future first.

This Congress must exhibit leadership in breaking with the traditions 
of the last few years to put our Nation's fiscal house in order.