---
---

# None
## `b90ec98dca8c194ea61eabca2e181121`
`Mr. BLUNT — 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. BLUNT. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I certainly want to talk about the comments that have 
already been made on Guantanamo. It's a facility that should be kept 
open. Clearly, a campaign promise is easier to make than is the reality 
of the world we live in. Nobody wants these people. Nobody in my State, 
nobody in any neighboring State. Other countries don't want these 
people. They are dangerous. They are enemies of the United States. They 
are not people who have a right, with the actions they've taken, to 
have the protections that have already been so well-discussed by Mr. 
Kingston, by Mr. Lungren and by others. Frankly, the fact that there is 
not money in this supplemental, at least as I understand at this point, 
to close that facility is a good thing. I'm glad the chairman and the 
others worked to see that that was not in there. This is a debate that 
suddenly is a lot harder, from the administration's point of view, than 
it was during the campaign.

Troops in the field need our support. The House acted quickly. It was 
a large bipartisan vote to support the troops in the field. Where is 
that bill now? That bill is in a committee somewhere. They're trying to 
figure out what else can be added to a bill designed to support our 
troops. People talking on those topics understand that Members of 
Congress have a history of supporting our troops in the field--our 
troops in Iraq, our troops in Afghanistan.

So, suddenly, well, maybe, we could also put more money in the 
International Monetary Fund, a fund in which we would put that money by 
increasing our debt. We all know that one of the sources of that debt 
right now is foreign borrowing, borrowing from foreign countries. Some 
of those countries we borrow from, like China, actually would then 
qualify to get the money back under the IMF. To borrow money from China 
to give it to China is not what we ought to be doing. If we were even 
going to talk about that, it shouldn't be in a military supplemental. 
It should be in a bill focused on that specific promise that the 
President apparently has recently made, and it deserves a debate of its 
own.

I hope it does not come back to the floor as part of this bill. I 
hope we get the job done of supporting our troops.