---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT OF 2009
## `b90e4b4eee077dc7f21a20716ae303be`
`Mr. AKAKA — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, let me make further comments about the 
pending bill on the floor and speak particularly about the cost of war.

To those who are concerned about the cost of this legislation, let me 
say I firmly believe we cannot renege on the obligation to care for 
those who honorably serve our country. When we as a nation vote to send 
American troops to war, we are promising to care for them when they 
return. The cost of veterans health care is a true cost of war and must 
be treated as such. The cost associated with the underlying bill does 
not need to be offset. The price has already been paid many times over 
by the service of the brave men and women who wore our Nation's 
uniform.

Regardless of what my colleagues may think about the United Nations 
and its role in international affairs, this is not the time or place to 
be debating those issues. At this moment, we are talking about meeting 
veterans' needs.

Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America agrees. IAVA writes that:




 The amendment to S. 1963 brought to the floor is just the 


 latest in a long series of delaying tactics that plays 


 political games with veterans' health care and services.


This bill would provide family caregivers--who typically have full-
time jobs--with health care, counseling, support, and a living stipend. 
This modest stipend would be equal to what a home health agency would 
pay an employee to provide similar services.

To assert that this legislation requires excessive spending is simply 
wrong. This spending is critical when taking into account the 
sacrifices these men and women have made for the Nation.

The sponsor of the amendment we are considering has expressed the 
view that S. 1963 unfairly discriminates against veterans because its 
caregiver assistance provisions focus on OEF and OIF veterans. While it 
is correct that the caregiver provisions target the veterans of the 
current conflicts, I do not believe that constitutes discrimination. 
The reasons for this targeting, at the least, are three: one, the needs 
and circumstances of the newest veterans in terms of the injuries are 
different--different--from those of veterans from earlier eras; two, 
the family situation of the younger veterans is different from that of 
older veterans; and three, by targeting this initiative on a specific 
group of veterans, the likelihood of a successful undertaking is 
enhanced.

I note that most major veterans groups support this bill and the 
caregiver provisions. I do not believe they would do so if they felt it 
was discriminatory.

As my colleagues know, I am a veteran of World War II. If we can 
provide help to the newest veterans in ways that were not available to 
the veterans of my generation, I support that 100 percent.

Veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan are returning home today to face 
new and different challenges. In World War II, a third of those injured 
on the battlefield did not make it home. Today, 90 percent of those 
injured make it home but often with catastrophic and life-threatening 
injuries. Some of these injuries leave invisible wounds. Unprecedented 
rates of post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental illnesses are 
affecting these young men and women. These veterans will be cared for 
somewhere, and by what we do today, we may decide whether that care 
occurs in a nursing home or in their own home. The soldiers of my 
generation had no such choice. I say, let's help the Nation's newest 
veterans to really come home, and let's help their families.

According to a report from the Center for Naval Analyses, 84 percent 
of caregivers for veterans were either working or in school prior to 
becoming a caregiver. An employed caregiver will lose, on average, more 
than $600,000 in wages, pension, and Social Security benefits over a 
''career'' of caregiving. The younger the veteran's family, the more 
wages a caregiver will lose. We can no longer ask our newest generation 
to bear the cost of the Nation's obligation to care for its wounded 
warriors.

The premise of the amendment seems to be, if it is good for some, it 
is good for all. But the needs of veterans are not the same, and 
expanding a benefit to any veteran who might benefit could endanger the 
entire program. The underlying bill already includes a provision 
directing VA to report to Congress within 2 years after the law's 
enactment on the feasibility of expanding the provision of caregiver 
assistance to family members of veterans of prior service. Such an 
approach is not discriminatory; it is the responsible way to approach 
the issue.

I note that other health care improvements which would result from 
this bill help virtually every group of veterans, including women 
veterans, homeless veterans, and veterans who live in rural areas.



I urge this body to reject the amendment and pass S. 1963 today for 
the sake of all our Nation's veterans.

Questions have been raised about the scope of the caregiver 
provision. When the bill came out of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, 
it included a 2-year delay before the caregiver benefit could have been 
expanded. The bill as reported said the Secretary of VA could have 
expanded it to all veterans if it made sense. Under the bill now before 
us, the Congress will continue to have the opportunity to expand it 
beyond OEF and OIF veterans. Nothing has changed. Once VA has 
experience with the proposed new program, it can be expanded to all 
veterans.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my 
time.