---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SENATORS
## `b91237fb32b6a224edc97a260cf5dfc8`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 21 January 2009`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, today I want to take a moment to thank 
President Obama for his service in the Senate. Our new President has 
some very difficult challenges ahead, as he faces a serious economic 
downturn, and many critically important national security issues. But 
he has already shown his ability to handle tough challenges through his 
outstanding work here in the Senate since his election in 2004.

From the moment he arrived, Barack Obama showed himself to be an 
outstanding legislator and public servant. I was very pleased to work 
with him on ethics and lobbying reform issues, first authoring a bill 
together, and then working together to pass the Honest Leadership and 
Open Government Act. Passing that landmark legislation took a 
determined, focused effort over many months, and then-Senator Obama 
showed that he was both a deeply principled, and very effective, member 
of this body. I was also pleased to work with him on a number of other 
issues, including the presidential public funding legislation, and I 
look forward to his continued support on that issue in this new 
Congress.

I was proud to support his efforts, along with many other members, on 
the efforts to support our wounded warriors, which he championed. And, 
finally, I thank him for his support of my bill, authored with Majority 
Leader Harry Reid, to safely redeploy our troops from Iraq. His support 
helped to build momentum for our effort to redeploy the troops from 
Iraq and move toward a better national security strategy, and I thank 
him for it.

We will miss his presence here in the Senate, but of course the 
Nation needs his unparalleled skills, and deep commitment to public 
service, more than ever as he is now President of the United States. I 
look forward to continuing to work with him on issues important to the 
American people, and I thank him once again for his service here in the 
Senate.

















Joseph Biden


Mr. President, it has been a pleasure to serve with Senator Joe Biden 
for the last 16 years. He is an outstanding colleague and a good 
friend, and I know that he will make a terrific Vice President. I have 
been pleased to work with him on so many issues over the years. For 
instance, I was proud to support him in his tremendous work on the COPS 
program. In turn I appreciate his steadfast support of campaign finance 
reform issues over the years.

Most of all, I want to say how much I have enjoyed serving with 
Senator Biden on the Foreign Relations and Judiciary Committees. I also 
can attest to his mastery of the complicated issues he faced in both 
committees. It is a huge challenge to take on the chairmanship of a 
Senate committee, and to do it well, but to serve with such distinction 
as chair of two of the Senate's most important committees is very rare, 
and it speaks volumes about Joe Biden's service in this body.

I have always found Senator Biden to be someone who I could talk with 
seriously about issues of mutual concern, or when we disagree. He is 
open-minded and he really listens. That quality will surely serve him 
well in his new position. He also, in my view, can be uniquely 
persuasive. He is one of the few Senators who I have actually seen 
change people's minds during a committee debate. In a policy fight 
involving complex issues, Joe Biden is someone who you want to have on 
your side.

Now Senator Biden becomes Vice President, and I know he will serve 
the Nation with the same outstanding commitment and skill with which he 
served the people of Delaware. I thank him for his many years of 
distinguished service in the Senate, and look forward to continuing to 
work with him, and President Obama, in the years to come.














 Hillary Rodham Clinton


Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleagues in thanking Senator 
Hillary Rodham Clinton for her outstanding service in the Senate, and 
wishing her our very best as she becomes our Secretary of State. One of 
the many reasons I strongly support her nomination for Secretary of 
State is because I have had the pleasure of working with Senator 
Clinton, and I know what a skilled legislator and committed public 
servant she is. We have worked on a number of issues together over the 
years, including fighting for family farmers and especially the dairy 
farmers that are so important to both New York and Wisconsin. Finding 
common ground, we worked together to make sure dairy markets functioned 
properly, to improve the milk income loss contract or MILC program, and 
pushing for country-of-origin labeling, or COOL, legislation for dairy 
products. I was also proud to support the Paycheck Fairness Act, which 
she authored, and to work with her on many other issues.

I also had the opportunity to travel with Senator Clinton and a 
number of other senators on an official trip to Afghanistan, Iraq, 
Kuwait and Pakistan, where we listened to service men and women on the 
ground, as well as local leaders. On that trip Senator Clinton deeply 
impressed me with her depth of knowledge on foreign relations and 
national security issues. Later I was very pleased to have her support 
for my effort with Majority Leader Harry Reid to safely redeploy our 
troops from Iraq, and I look forward to continuing to work with her on 
these critically important issues as she becomes our next Secretary of 
State. Once again, I thank her for her service in this body, and I wish 
her all the best as she continues her service to the American people.

















Ken Salazar


Mr. President, I join my colleagues in thanking Ken Salazar for his 
outstanding service to the people of Colorado over the last 4 years. It 
has been a pleasure to work with him on a number of issues; he is 
extremely easy to work with, both someone of integrity and great 
personal decency. In particular, he has been one of the Senate's 
leaders when it comes to protecting the rights and freedoms of the 
American people as we work to strengthen our national security. I was 
proud to work with him and a bipartisan coalition of Senators on the 
SAFE Act to change flawed provisions of the PATRIOT Act. I also 
appreciated his critical support of the NSL Reform Act, to address the 
serious misuse of the FBI's national security letter authorities. I 
also know Senator Salazar's deep commitment to public lands and energy 
resources issues, and I think he will be an excellent Secretary of the 
Interior. Again, I thank him for his service in this body, and I look 
forward to continuing to work with him as he assumes the leadership of 
the Interior Department.