---
---

# None
## `b9185b554430cbaffb22c15b109264e1`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I just hope our friends who are opposing this bill 
to cover children's health care because of the cost of it, which we are 
paying for, will scrutinize the Iraq spending as it starts to come up 
over the next few weeks and few months. As we went over already, one 
day in Iraq, $330 million would cover 270,000 kids for a year for this 
program. That is one day. And if you go through 1 week, $2.3 billion 
would cover 1.8 million kids. And less than 40 days in Iraq would cover 
all of these kids that we want to cover, 10 million kids, for 1 year. 
Forty days in Iraq. And all we are saying is our priority is this.

Now, I just want to take a minute here to just go over what has 
happened over the past 8 or 9 or 10 months here in Congress, what we 
have done, how we have shifted the priorities. We have the same Members 
who are voting against this bill who voted against the minimum wage 
increase. We have the same Members who are going to vote against the 
children's health care bill are the same members who voted against us 
increasing the Pell Grant and cutting the interest rates for college 
loans in half, the same group of folks.

When we wanted to invest all this money in alternative energy 
research, we took it from the oil companies, corporate welfare, put it 
into alternative energy research. The same group of folks that voted 
against this SCHIP bill, children's health care bill, voted against 
that, too. And all of these issues come up. The only thing we can get 
them to agree on is probably the veterans spending, which was the 
largest increase in the history of the VA.

So what we are saying is there is a pattern, Mr. Speaker, there is a 
pattern of behavior of a certain fringe group of people who are here 
that even very conservative people have agreed with us on this issue, 
and we can't get enough to override the veto.

I don't know about you guys, but I have got a little restaurant I go 
to back home called Vernon's Restaurant, Vernon's Cafe, great Italian. 
But when you are sitting there and you are eating and you are talking 
to your friends who go through everyday life, they are talking about 
their student loans, they are talking about health care, they are 
talking about what are we going to do to stimulate the economy? Why are 
we so dependent on foreign oil? And we all have our own little Vernon's 
in all of our communities. We are trying to address these bread and 
butter economic issues, and I think we have in this Congress. And the 
one that lays before us here is children's health care. For God's sake, 
Mr. Speaker, God help us if we can't pass children's health care.