# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `b927eda605abd4c2fcd0a06ae35daeb2`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida â€” 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, I say to my colleagues in the 
Senate that I support this motion to proceed and want us to get on to 
the resolution so we can have a full and thorough debate on this issue 
of what to do in Iraq. Without a doubt, this issue is the No. 1 issue, 
foremost in the minds of the American people. My State of Florida, 
being a microcosm of the entire country, is certainly reflective of 
that. People are unsettled over the course of the war. They are 
unsettled over the fact that none of our leadership will indicate we 
are winning this war and, indeed, at the same time they recognize the 
stakes are so very high in that part of the world if we are 
unsuccessful. Therefore, because this issue naturally is at the 
forefront of Americans' minds now, and what to do about it, we need to 
get it out here and get it thoroughly discussed and debated.

It seems to me one of the fundamental mistakes at first of going into 
Iraq was not to understand the world of Islam and the schism that has 
been there for 1,327 years, ever since the battle of Karbala, in 680 
A.D., when the grandson of the Prophet Mohammed was killed in the 
battle. That led to a division of those new worshipers who had followed 
the Prophet Mohammed into the primary sect, Sunnis, and those who were 
rebelling, the Shiites.

That schism has lasted ever since. We see attempts at bringing those 
two groups together, but we always see--just in the demonstrations in 
the religious holidays recently reenacting that battle, establishing 
the Shiite sect as one that is separated from the Sunnis--they have 
been at it ever since. So, when you have a country that has those two 
sects, they have been at each other's throats and you find that order 
has been maintained, in the case of Iraq, by a brutal dictator who 
favored one sect over the other. Now that that dictator has been 
overthrown and is no more, in an attempt to bring about democracy, you 
see the majority in that country of Iraq, the Shiites, suddenly feeling 
they have control and maybe it is not quite so bad that they let out--
in their mind, they say it is not so bad--to let out their frustrations 
on the ones who had kept them down for years and years, their rivals, 
the Sunnis. In the process, you get this sectarian warfare which is, by 
anybody's definition, very close to civil war.

How do we stabilize Iraq? For us just going in and thinking it is 
going to be a democracy and that the Shiites are going to play the 
democratic game and the Sunnis are--and not even to speak of the branch 
of the Sunnis, the Baathists, who had been the ruling party--to think 
they are all going to play the game of democracy and majority rules, 
you have seen, now, after going on 4 years, what has happened.

So what do we do? We have a suggestion by a unanimous decision by a 
bipartisan group of extremely well thought of people called the Iraq 
Study Commission, led by former Secretary of State, former Chief of 
Staff of the White House, Jim Baker, and led by Congressman Lee 
Hamilton, former Member of the House, former head of the International 
Relations Committee in the House of Representatives. Unanimously, 10 
people--5 Democrats and 5 Republicans--came up with a plan. How do you 
stabilize Iraq, given the conditions we find ourselves in there today? 
They said, clearly, what you have to do is stop having the mentality of 
an American occupying force. Let the Iraqis start to work it out for 
themselves. Realize there is probably going to have to be a separation 
of the sects until they can get them stabilized, and in the meantime do 
a very aggressive, diplomatic effort throughout the region to get all 
of the countries in the region to buy into what is ultimately the 
political solution.

This Senator thinks, given all of this chaos and tumult and sectarian 
warfare, that political solution is going to have to be some kind of 
division. Clearly Kurds in the north basically have their own 
autonomous government. Shiites are concentrated in the south. Sunnis 
are concentrated in the center. They made an important first step 
recently in the establishment of a new law distributing the oil 
production--which is not distributed geographically throughout the 
country but is concentrated in the north and in the south.



So if all the elements are there to make this possible for local 
control, of Kurds in the north, Sunnis in the middle, Shiites in the 
south, distributing the oil wealth proportionally according to the 
population, having a national government for the common defense, let's 
see if that political situation will work.

People say you can't do that because you have all these neighborhoods 
where Sunnis and Shiites are all living together. But the fact is the 
separation is already occurring because of the sectarian violence and 
the killing that is going on. You are seeing that separation.

If that is a likely political outcome that has the best chance to 
stabilize Iraq, then what should be the position of the United States 
and its forces, and what should be the policy of the United States to 
bring that about? Go back to the Iraq Study Commission. People say 
there is not a plan. There is. There is a plan. It is printed. It has 
about 75 recommendations. What it says is the American force should 
withdraw from the midst of that sectarian warfare, withdraw more to the 
perimeter, start lessening the forces and therefore the casualties to 
our American men and women, and use that force to train the Iraqi 
Army--to continue to train them--to provide force protection and very 
likely border control, since the neighbors in the region have not been 
exactly good on that--that is something we ought to be diplomatically 
insisting on, with the neighbors in the region--and to continue to 
prosecute the war against the terrorists by going after the terrorists 
there, particularly al-Qaida, who are trying to undermine the whole 
process.

What I have outlined, which came from the basics of the Iraq Study 
Commission Report and Recommendations, is the essence of the Reid 
resolution that is before the Senate. That is why I think we ought to 
get it out here, get it debated and, barring some unforeseen turn, it 
is this Senator's intention that he will support the Reid resolution. 
This does not say withdraw. It says redeployment. It doesn't say get 
out of Iraq, it says get out of the cities in the middle of the 
crossfire of a civil war. It says utilize the American forces for 
training, going after al-Qaida, and for the purpose of force 
protection. That makes common sense in the overlay of a very 
complicated part of the world.

As I close, I say that the United States, back in the 1980s, thought 
by the introduction of troops we could suddenly help bring about peace 
in another very troubled part of the Middle East, the country of 
Lebanon. Suddenly, it was as if scales fell from our eyes, that we saw 
it was an either/or. But it was multiple choice of all the factions 
that were there, each with a stake in the outcome. It became very 
difficult, particularly when the Americans became perceived to be 
supporting one particular part of those factions. Watch out for that 
happening today in Iraq. Let us understand something from the mistakes 
that were made in the past in places such as Lebanon as to how you 
ultimately stabilize an area and what is in the interests of the United 
States.

I think part of that wisdom is what came to bear by those 10 people 
unanimously agreeing, in the Iraq Study Commission, whose work product 
boiled down is, in essence, the resolution before us here in the 
Senate.

I thank the Chair for this opportunity to share these thoughts with 
the Senate.