---
---

# TRIBUTE TO RETIRING SENATORS
## `b937d24156c87dc6d45fd701372537a1`
`Mr. HARKIN — 22 December 2010`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, time and time I have come to the floor to 
give a few remarks about Senators who are retiring and leaving the 
Senate. They all contributed in their unique way one way or the other 
to the Senate. Now I find myself with two left about whom I want to 
comment on their way out of the Senate.

In the closing days of the 111th Congress, we are saying goodbye to a 
number of colleagues, including a veteran Member, much respected on 
both sides of the aisle. I speak of the Senator from Indiana, Mr. Bayh.

I listened with great interest to Senator Bayh's eloquent farewell 
remarks earlier this month. The Senator was also kind enough to have 
them typed up and sent to our offices.

Looking back on his 12 years in this body, he spoke about times of 
national crisis, including after the 9/11 attacks and during the 
financial meltdown of 2008. He talked of a time when Senators acted not 
as Democrats and Republicans but as patriots concerned of doing one 
thing: doing what is right for the American people. He said that these 
times of bipartisan action were with the Senate at its very best.

For more than two decades, Senator Bayh has embodied everything that 
is


good about this body: a passion for public service, a sincere desire to 
reach out across the aisle, a great talent for forging coalitions and 
bringing people together, and a willingness to work long hours to 
accomplish important things.

As we all know, Evan is what we might call a ''son of the Senate.'' 
He is enormously proud to have been elected to the same seat his father 
Senator Birch Bayh held for two terms and who remains a great friend of 
mine after all these years. He has followed in his father's footsteps 
in fighting for quality public schools, student loans, retirement 
security, and giving every American access to quality, affordable 
health care.

In addition, he has been a leader in strengthening our Armed Forces 
and national security. I know that Senator Bayh takes special pride in 
leading the charge to provide our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan with 
much improved mine-resistant armored vehicles.

As he leaves this body, Senator Bayh is still a young man with many 
chapters yet to be written in his life and career. For more than a 
quarter century, he has devoted himself to public service, first as 
Indiana's secretary of state, then as an enormously successful two-term 
Governor of Indiana, and, of course, since 1999 as a Senator.

I have always been a big admirer of one of his signature 
accomplishments as Governor, which was passing legislation creating the 
21st Century Scholars Program. It is a wonderful program. Thanks to his 
initiative, every child in Indiana who is eligible for the free lunch 
program in public schools, who graduates from high school, and signs a 
pledge not to experiment with illegal drugs is entitled--get this--is 
entitled to a full tuition scholarship at the Indiana public university 
of his or her choice.

Over the years, many thousands of Hoosiers of modest means have been 
able to attend college thanks to this remarkable law. That is what I 
call a great--I hope my friend does not mind me saying this--populist, 
progressive accomplishment. It speaks volumes about Evan Bayh's 
priorities and values throughout his 24 years in public service.

During his two terms in this body, Senator Bayh has always faithfully 
served the people of Indiana and the people of the United States. I 
hope and expect he will pursue new avenues of public service after he 
leaves the Senate because our country sorely needs public servants of 
his caliber, intelligence, and accomplishments.

I will miss the day-to-day friendships, the counsels, the 
interchanges we have had together in the Senate. I wish Evan and his 
wonderful wife Susan and their twin sons, Beau and Nick, the very best 
in the years ahead.
















 Arlen Specter


Mr. President, I also wish to pay a farewell to another long-time 
legislative partner, and that is Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania.

I listened with great interest to Senator Specter's farewell remarks 
yesterday. He decried the decline of bipartisan cooperation in this 
body. As he put it:




 In some quarters, compromising has become a dirty word. 


 Politics is no longer the art of the possible when senators 


 are intransigent in their positions.


During his remarkable 30 years in the Senate--he is the longest 
serving U.S. Senator in Pennsylvania's history--Arlen Specter has been 
admired for his fierce independence and for his willingness to cross 
party lines in order to accomplish big and important things for this 
country.

Nowhere has this been more vividly on display than in the Labor, 
Health and Human Services Subcommittee of the Committee on 
Appropriations, on which Senator Specter and I are senior members. 
Before last year, when he returned to his roots as a Democrat, Arlen 
was the senior Republican and I was the senior Democrat on that 
subcommittee. Since 1989, as the majority in the Senate has gone back 
and forth between the two parties, we alternated as either chair or 
ranking member. But the transitions were seamless as we passed the 
gavel back and forth because Arlen and I forged an unshakable 
partnership.

That partnership has been grounded in our shared commitment to 
finding cures for diseases ranging from cancer to heart disease to 
Alzheimer's and in our determination to maintain the National 
Institutes of Health as the jewel in the crown of international 
biomedical research. Our proudest accomplishment was our collaboration 
in doubling funding for the National Institutes of Health over a 5-year 
period, between 1998 and 2003. Last year, we again collaborated in 
securing $10 billion for the National Institutes of Health in the 
Recovery Act, although I must be honest and give the senior Senator 
from Pennsylvania the lion's share of credit for that accomplishment.

I say without fear of contradiction that there has been no Member of 
Congress in the Senate or the House who has championed NIH as 
passionately and relentlessly and successfully as Senator Arlen 
Specter. Indeed, at times, in my role when I was chair of the 
Appropriations Labor, Health and Human Services Subcommittee, I have 
had to remind Arlen that there were other programs besides the NIH in 
our appropriations bill. In fairness, Senator Specter has also fought 
passionately to increase funding for public schools and to increase 
access to higher education, but there is no question that his great 
passion, his living legacy has been the National Institutes of Health 
and biomedical research. Today, the prowess and excellence of the 
National Institutes of Health is truly a living legacy to Senator 
Specter, and we have countless new medical cures and therapies because 
of Senator Specter's long and determined advocacy.

Mr. President, I will miss my good friend and colleague from 
Pennsylvania, who has been a tremendous ally for many years. As he 
departs the Senate, he can take enormous pride in 30 years of truly 
distinguished service to the people of Pennsylvania and the United 
States. I wish Arlen and his wonderful wife Joan the very best in the 
years ahead.

With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor and wish the occupant of 
the chair the best of the holiday season and a happy New Year. We will 
see you when we come back to the next Congress.

I yield the floor.
















 Russ Feingold
