---
---

# BUT I
## `b93a75eaba40b52fb13f82dff64d50b7`
`Mr. HERGER — 10 December 2008`

---


Mr. HERGER. Madam Speaker, this poem was penned by Albert Caswell in 
honor of a great American hero, Christopher Frost from Chico 
California. Tech Sergeant Frost lost his leg during an IED explosion in 
Samara, Iraq. His courage and positive attitude is an inspiration to us 
all. He was part of the Weapons Intelligence Team/Air Force.



 But I . . .


 Went off to war . . .


 And, I will not give up, nor give in for sure!


 For my heart, will fly once more . . . for I will rise, and I 





 will soar!


 Wearing my Nation's Wings, I'll reach for the stars . . . 





 once again . . . once more!


 Until, that very end . . . America, and The United States Air 





 Force . . . I will defend . . .


 Is but my life's passion, my life's force . . . all in my 





 heart as my course, I've fashioned . . .


 For we all have mountains to so climb . . .


 For we all have stories, to so write and so rhyme . . .


 Answers, to the hardest of all questions to find!


 All about what we have so left inside, all about our short 





 lives . . . which so come to mind . . .


 All those moment's which test our metal, all in our pain and 





 woe . . .


 As this is mine . . . all for Country Tis of Thee, I was 





 ready to die and bleed . . .


 And gladly, pay the greatest of all costs indeed . . .


 All in what I've found, and so believe . . . all in what I've 





 lost and do not need . . .


 As on this day my life, takes me to new heights . . .


 Look into my heart, as it's there you'll find inspiration 





 taking flight . . .


 As this Airman's heart, soar's so high above . . .


 Burning bold, burning bright . . . all in my love . . .


 A work of art, which make's souls fly . . .


 Showing us all, how a heart faith and courage can so soar so 





 high . . .


 Bring hope, and bringing light . . . speaking long and loud 





 this night . . .


 Who on battlefields of honor once seen . . .


 Or home once again, rebuilding from such heartache and pain . 





 . .


 As Chris your heart of courage full, so astounds . . .


 For when all seemed lost, Chris somehow you found . . .


 The Strength, The Courage . . . to not be discouraged . . .


 The Light, that flows through your eyes which does nourish . 





 . .


 Teaching us all so how . . . To bare that burden, to bare 





 that cost . . .


 Even, with your fine leg lost! Mountains you so cross . . .


 To reach for the stars, in all your loss . . .


 All in that smile upon your face, all in that mantle of a 





 hero heart that's yours portrays . . .


 As we see such a fine heart that will not look down . . .


 Teaching us all, what God has made! As your fine heart so 





 sounds . . .


 Reminding us all, not to waste not even a single day . . .


 Bringing tears to eyes, as we kneel down and pray . . .


 But I . . .


 If I could but be like you . . .


 Then, I would but teach every women, child and man so too!


 Where faith and courage, and service to country begins . . .


 And if ever I have a son . . .


 I but hope and pray . . . he could but soar, as far and as 





 high . . . as you have my fine son!


 And, be like you the one . . . But I . . .



