---
---

# ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
## `b93ac00c947d9ad4023cb6a6a049b063`
`Mr. SKELTON — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 1362, the Accountability in 
Contracting Act. This bill amends title 10 and 41, United States Code, 
and establishes other new statutory requirements to improve the quality 
of government contracts, increase government contract oversight, and 
promote integrity in contracting.

The House Armed Services Committee approved this legislation on a 
bipartisan vote of 53-0. Our committee has worked for decades to 
improve the contracting process within the Department of Defense.

Over this time, the committee has passed numerous bills, including 
both major additions to contract law and focused revisions. We utilized 
the experience gained in these legislative efforts to formulate our 
recommendations in this bill. I am confident that this is a good 
product that will improve contracting and save the taxpayer money.

Right now, American military forces are deployed throughout the world 
in support of the war on terrorism as well as other military 
operations, including Iraq. These contingency operations have generated 
a number of very large contracts, the Department of Defense has 
expended billions of dollars on support and reconstruction contracts 
that have been awarded, administered and overseen in the most 
challenging of conditions.

H.R. 1362 would help address these challenges by empowering the heads 
of the military departments and the defense agencies to ensure the 
proper use of a variety of contract types, both competitive and 
noncompetitive, and by empowering Congress to oversee such contracts. 
It also ensures continued faith in the integrity of the procurement 
system.

I thank my friend and colleague, Chairman Waxman, for introducing 
this legislation and bringing it to the floor today. And I especially 
want to thank my friend and partner on the Armed Services Committee, 
Mr. Hunter, who is the ranking member and the former chairman, for 
working so closely with us on this legislation. I thank him for that.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.