# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 301,  PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `b954c79776a1f33f79f0b536b1e29b47`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. I thank Mr. McGovern and Mr. Dreier for enabling me to 
participate in this debate. A little bit later we're going to get into 
the substance of the War Powers Resolution.

But I think it's very important for the record to state, as the Wall 
Street Journal in an article last week stated, that the United States 
is stepping up a ground presence in Pakistan, and as part of that 
ground presence, three United States troops were killed in Pakistan. 
This, according to the Wall Street Journal. And I will put this in the 
Record.







 [From The Wall Street Journal, July 20, 2010]









 U.S. Forces Step Up Pakistan Presence













 (By Julian E. Barnes)




 Washington--U.S. Special Operations Forces have begun 


 venturing out with Pakistani forces on aid projects, 


 deepening the American role in the effort to defeat Islamist 


 militants in Pakistani territory that has been off limits to 


 U.S. ground troops.



 The expansion of U.S. cooperation is significant given 


 Pakistan's deep aversion to




 allowing foreign military forces on its territory. The 


 Special Operations teams join the aid missions only when 


 commanders determine there is relatively little security 


 risk, a senior U.S. military official said, in an effort to 


 avoid direct engagement that would call attention to U.S. 


 participation.



 The U.S. troops are allowed to defend themselves and return 


 fire if attacked. But the official emphasized the joint 


 missions aren't supposed to be combat operations, and the 


 Americans often participate in civilian garb.



 Pakistan has told the U.S. that troops need to keep a low 


 profile. ''Going out in the open, that has negative optics, 


 that is something we have to work out,'' said a Pakistani 


 official. ''This whole exercise could be counterproductive if 


 people see U.S. boots on the ground.''



 Because of Pakistan's sensitivities, the U.S. role has 


 developed slowly. In June 2008, top U.S. military officials 


 announced 30 American troops would begin a military training 


 program in Pakistan, but it took four months for Pakistan to 


 allow the program to begin.



 The first U.S. Special Operations Forces were restricted to 


 military classrooms and training bases. Pakistan has 


 gradually allowed more trainers into the country and allowed 


 the mission's scope to expand. Today, the U.S. has about 120 


 trainers in the country, and the program is set to expand 


 again with new joint missions to oversee small-scale 


 development projects aimed at winning over tribal leaders, 


 according to officials familiar with the plan.



 Such aid projects are a pillar of the U.S. 


 counterinsurgency strategy, which the U.S. hopes to pass on 


 to the Pakistanis through the training missions.



 U.S. military officials say if U.S. forces are able to help 


 projects such as repairing infrastructure, distributing seeds 


 and providing generators or solar panels, they can build 


 trust with the Pakistani military, and encourage them to 


 accept more training in the field.



 ''You have to bring something to the dance,'' said the 


 senior military official. ''And the way to do it is to have 


 cash ready to do everything from force protection to other 


 things that will protect the population.''



 Congressional leaders last month approved $10 million in 


 funding for the aid missions, which will focus reconstruction 


 projects in poor tribal areas that are off-limits to foreign 


 civilian aid workers.



 The Pakistani government has warned the Pentagon that a 


 more visible U.S. military presence could undermine the 


 mission of pacifying the border region, which has provided a 


 haven for militants staging attacks in Pakistan as well as 


 Afghanistan.



 The U.S. has already aroused local animosity with drone 


 strikes targeting militants in the tribal areas, though the 


 missile strikes have the tacit support of the Pakistani 


 government and often aid the Pakistani army's campaign 


 against the militants.



 Providing money to U.S. troops to spend in communities they 


 are trying to protect has been a tactic used for years to 


 fight insurgencies in Iraq and Afghanistan.



 The move to accompany Pakistani forces in the field is even 


 more significant, and repeats a pattern seen in the 


 Philippines during the Bush administration, when Army Green 


 Berets took a gradually more expansive role in Manila's fight 


 against the terrorist group Abu Sayyaf in the southern 


 islands of Mindanao.



 There, the Green Berets started in a limited training role, 


 and their initial deployment unleashed a political backlash 


 against the Philippine president. But as the Philippine 


 military began to improve their counterinsurgency skills, 


 Special Operations Forces accompanied them on major 


 offensives throughout the southern part of the archipelago.



 In Pakistan, the U.S. military helps train both the regular 


 military and the Frontier Corps, a force drawn from residents 


 of the tribal regions but led by Pakistani Army officers.



 The senior military official said the U.S. Special 


 Operations Forces have developed a closer relationship with 


 the Frontier Corps, and go out into the field more frequently 


 with those units. ''The Frontier Corps are more accepting 


 partners,'' said the official.



 For years the Frontier Corps was underfunded and struggled 


 to provide basic equipment for its soldiers. A U.S. effort to 


 help equip the force has made them more accepting of outside 


 help.



 Traveling with the Frontier Corps is dangerous. In 


 February, three Army soldiers were killed in Pakistan's 


 Northwest Frontier Province when a roadside bomb detonated 


 near their convoy. The soldiers, assigned to train the 


 Frontier Corps, were traveling out of uniform to the opening 


 of a school that had been renovated with U.S. money.



 The regular Pakistani military also operates in the tribal 


 areas of Pakistan, but they are less willing to go on 


 missions with U.S. forces off the base, in part because they 


 believe appearing to accept U.S. help will make them look 


 weak, the senior U.S. military official said. The Pakistani 


 official said the military simply doesn't need foreign help.



 During the past two years, Pakistan has stepped up military 


 operations against the militant groups that operate in the 


 tribal areas. Although Washington has praised the Pakistani 


 offensives, Pentagon officials have said Pakistan's military 


 needs help winning support among tribal elders. If 


 successful, More interactive graphics and photos the joint 


 missions and projects may help the Pakistani military retain 


 control of areas in South Waziristan, the Swat valley and 


 other border regions they have cleared of militants.



 In Pakistan, the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad will retain 


 final approval for all projects, according to Defense 


 officials. But congressional staffers briefed on the program 


 said the intent is to have Pakistani military forces hand out 


 any of the goods bought with the funding or pay any local 


 workers hired.



 ''The goal is never to have a U.S. footprint on any of 


 these efforts,'' said a congressional staffer.


Now, the War Powers Resolution requires the President to report to 
Congress when he introduces U.S. Armed Forces abroad in certain 
situations. And section 4(a) requires reporting within 48 hours 
whenever, and in the absence of a declaration of war or congressional 
authorization, the introduction of U.S. Armed Forces ''into hostilities 
or into situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly 
indicated by the circumstances.''



This is a report from the Congressional Research Service which 
indicates that, since we have had troops involved in hostilities, 
otherwise they would not have been killed by roadside bombs, that in 
effect the War Powers Act is triggered.

So this debate is in order and the purpose of the debate, to remove 
us from Pakistan, becomes urgent in light of the WikiLeaks expose, 
which has indicated that the intelligence agency in Pakistan has been 
collaborating with the Taliban in Afghanistan against our troops. 
Pakistan wants us in Pakistan to help the Pakistan Government resist 
the Taliban in Pakistan, but they want to play a double game, as the 
New York Times pointed out in an editorial today, with the United 
States by aiding the Taliban against our troops in Afghanistan. How can 
we advance our national interests when a country which is supposed to 
be our partner is duplicitous?

I insert the New York Times editorial in the Record.









[From the New York Times, July 26, 2010]













 Pakistan's Double Game




 There is a lot to be disturbed by in the battlefield 


 reports from Afghanistan released Sunday by WikiLeaks. The 


 close-up details of war are always unsettling, even more so 


 with this war, which was so badly neglected and bungled by 


 President George W. Bush.



 But the most alarming of the reports were the ones that 


 described the cynical collusion between Pakistan's military 


 intelligence service and the Taliban. Despite the billions of 


 dollars the United States has sent in aid to Pakistan since 


 Sept. 11, they offer powerful new evidence that crucial 


 elements of Islamabad's power structure have been actively 


 helping to direct and support the forces attacking the 


 American-led military coalition.



 The time line of the documents from WikiLeaks, an 


 organization devoted to exposing secrets, stops before 


 President Obama put his own military and political strategy 


 into effect last December. Administration officials say they 


 have made progress with Pakistan since, but it is hard to see 


 much evidence of that so far.



 Most of the WikiLeaks documents, which were the subject of 


 in-depth coverage in The Times on Monday, cannot be verified. 


 However, they confirm a picture of Pakistani double-dealing 


 that has been building for years.



 On a trip to Pakistan last October, Secretary of State 


 Hillary Rodham Clinton suggested that officials in the 


 Pakistani government knew where Al Qaeda leaders were hiding. 


 Gen. David Petraeus, the new top military commander in 


 Afghanistan, recently acknowledged longstanding ties between 


 Pakistan's Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence, known 


 as the ISI, and the ''bad guys.''



 The Times's report of the new documents suggests the 


 collusion goes even deeper, that representatives of the ISI 


 have worked with the Taliban to organize networks of 


 militants to fight American soldiers in Afghanistan and hatch 


 plots to assassinate Afghan leaders.



 The article painted a chilling picture of the activities of 


 Lt. Gen. Hamid Gul of Pakistan, who ran the ISI from 1987 to 


 1989, when the agency and the C.I.A. were together arming the 


 Afghan militias fighting Soviet troops. General Gul kept 


 working with those forces, which eventually formed the 


 Taliban.



 Pakistan's ambassador to the United States said the reports 


 were unsubstantiated and ''do not reflect the current on-


 ground realities.'' But at this point, denials about links 


 with the militants are simply not credible.



 Why would Pakistan play this dangerous game? The ISI has 


 long seen the Afghan Taliban as a proxy force, a way to 


 ensure its influence on the other side of the border and keep 


 India's influence at bay.





 Pakistani officials also privately insist that they have 


 little choice but to hedge their bets given their suspicions 


 that Washington will once again lose interest as it did after 


 the Soviets were ousted from Afghanistan in 1989. And until 


 last year, when the Pakistani Taliban came within 60 miles of 


 Islamabad, the country's military and intelligence 


 establishment continued to believe it could control the 


 extremists when it needed to.



 In recent months, the Obama administration has said and 


 done many of the right things toward building a long-term 


 relationship with Pakistan. It has committed to long-term 


 economic aid. It is encouraging better relations between 


 Afghanistan and Pakistan. It is constantly reminding 


 Pakistani leaders that the extremists, on both sides of the 


 border, pose a mortal threat to Pakistan's fragile 


 democracy--and their own survival. We don't know if they're 


 getting through. We know they have to.



 It has been only seven months since Mr. Obama announced his 


 new strategy for Afghanistan, and a few weeks since General 


 Petraeus took command. But Americans are increasingly weary 


 of this costly war. If Mr. Obama cannot persuade Islamabad to 


 cut its ties to, and then aggressively fight, the extremists 


 in Pakistan, there is no hope of defeating the Taliban in 


 Afghanistan.
