---
---

# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `b96f788879918cdbf8d3befba9029fc9`
`Mr. SAXTON — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. SAXTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to ask my colleagues to resist the 
urge to begin a withdrawal of our forces from Iraq within 90 days as 
this bill requires. Doing so would have a devastating impact on our 
ability to fight terrorism here and abroad and would have severe 
security impacts, not only in Iraq but throughout the Middle East and 
the entire region. My motion to recommit will ensure that when we 
withdraw from Iraq, we do so based on the conditions on the ground by 
requiring we take into account our national security assessments and 
the regional security implications, as outlined by the National 
Intelligence Estimate for Iraq.

We are not in the position to determine when U.S. forces should 
redeploy from Iraq. Only the commanders on the ground have that 
information. Only our commanders and diplomatic representatives on the 
ground can determine effectively when conditions are in place to 
warrant a troop withdrawal. It would be irresponsible for us to assign 
such an arbitrary timeline and impose it upon our leadership in 
theater.

We have to consider the conditions that we would leave the Iraqi 
Government to deal with going forward if we were to precipitously 
withdraw our personnel.

In my view, there are two significant threats that would remain 
behind, and the Iraqi Government would not be prepared to effectively 
counter either one. The al Qaeda threat in Iraq is significant. Al 
Qaeda's deputy commented a few days ago that the establishment of an 
Islamic state of Iraq is an important milestone on the way to reviving 
the Islamic caliphate. He noted that the defeat of American forces in 
Iraq is a key to this objective.

Securing control over Iraq is the strategic objective for al Qaeda 
that


will enable it to conduct operations against their targets in the 
Middle East, particularly against Israel, in addition to Europe and 
other U.S. global interests. Al Qaeda is particularly interested in the 
Persian Gulf oil fields, and Iraq would serve as a valuable staging 
area for such attacks.



Right now the Iraqi forces, security forces working in partnership 
with U.S. forces, are building momentum to erode al Qaeda's influence 
over Sunni insurgent groups in Iraq. A premature withdrawal would 
derail those efforts.

Al Qaeda in Iraq has been conducting indiscriminate attacks on Iraqi 
civilians. Sunni Arabs reject this tactic, and there is a growing 
backlash among the population. Sunni communities have encouraged 
thousands to join the local police forces and improve security. This is 
real progress.

A few days ago, al Qaeda's deputy warned Iraqi citizens that have 
supported the U.S. to consider what will happen to them after the 
Americans leave. If we abandon them now, we will be hard-pressed to 
gain their trust any time again in the future.

Iran also has an interest in seeing us fail and leave Iraq early. We 
know that Iran has been arming militia groups within Iraq. We know that 
Iran has infiltrated various levels of Iraqi government and its 
security forces.

If we redeployed from Iraq before the Maliki government has the 
capability to contain this threat, we would leave Iraq vulnerable to 
becoming an Iranian surrogate.

The porous Iraqi-Syrian border would provide Iran with contiguous, 
unfettered access to the coast of Lebanon. Through its support of Hamas 
and Hezbollah, Iran would then become even more a danger to the 
prospect of security and stability in the Middle East.

It would be irresponsible for us to even consider withdrawing from 
Iraq before the Maliki government has the capacity to deter these two 
threats. We must be conscious of the dangerous message we are sending 
with an early withdrawal.

First, we would lose the trust and will of the Iraqi people and the 
democratically elected government we worked so hard to create. The 
extremists associated with al Qaeda will hear a message that will tell 
them that Americans acknowledged defeat, and do not have the stomach 
for this war or any other war with al Qaeda. Our defeat would only 
inspire like-minded jihadists to take up their cause.

One need only look as far as yesterday to see the headlines of what 
could happen here in this country. A couple of days ago, we were 
reminded how close to home the terror threat is. The Fort Dix, New 
Jersey, individuals are just one example.

I ask everyone on both sides of the aisle to support this motion to 
recommit.