# None
## `b972035c2d304a978831b2eb237eef2d`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Would the gentlewoman yield for a moment? 
And I think she is exactly right, and I think that that disconnect that 
you talk about, that certainly was in existence here for a very long 
time was one of the reasons why we now have a Democratic majority. The 
people last summer were fueling up their cars at $3.50 a gallons. We 
are finding that all of a sudden, they were having to pay $50 co-pays 
rather than $25 co-pays. And they looked at a Congress which seemed 
pretty incredulous to their concerns, that seemed to watch without 
listening. And you are right, people get hurt by the decisions they 
make down here. And I will give you an example.

In my district I have a senior housing complex in Torrington, major 
place where a lot of seniors live in one of the biggest cities in my 
district, and we have had some security problems there, some people 
coming in off the streets and had a couple violent incidents. Well, 
most of the facility and the staff there are financed through Federal 
grants. Well, because this Congress, over the last 12 years, slashed 
Federal housing funds to the bone, they have had to make major layoffs 
at that housing complex.

In fact, it finally came down to a very difficult but unfortunately 
necessary decision that that housing facility made to lay off their 
security guards. That is going to put hundreds of senior citizens at 
risk in this senior housing complex. And they come to their local 
elected officials, their State-elected officials and ask, what can you 
do to help? And everybody points back to where the problem came


from. It was years of neglect down here in Washington of housing 
programs, just as there were years of neglect years to health care 
programs, years of neglect to defense and certain national security 
programs.

And in order to reinstill that commitment to the seniors of 
Torrington, to those veterans in Pennsylvania, it is going to take a 
little while.

But if you are back in your communities, if you are talking to 
people, regular middle-class, working folks people, you will hear those 
stories on how the votes we take here affect people back in 
Connecticut, back in Florida, back in Pennsylvania. And for some 
reason, whether it was the power that went to people's head, whether it 
was the pomp and circumstance that surrounds being a Member of 
Congress, for some reason, over the last 12 years, and in particular, I 
think, Mr. Altmire, over the past 4, 5, or 6 years, there was a wall 
that was put up around Washington, D.C., and folks that were 
controlling the committees here and the budget here just were not 
listening to people back in State of Connecticut, State of 
Pennsylvania, Florida, and throughout this country, because if they 
did, they would know we have to put more money in housing.

If they listened to those veterans that you and I talk to every day 
at people's doors, they would know that men and women who came back 
from Iraq, came back from Vietnam, World War II veterans are 
struggling. And what we are now doing here in starting to clean up that 
mess is also to start listening again. And I believe Ms. Wasserman 
Schultz is very correct on that notion.

I yield to Mr. Meek.