---
---

# FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007
## `b9753beb83305a8e261c6b010b024069`
`Mr. BACA — 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. BACA. Madam Chairman, I rise in strong support for this farm 
bill. Let me say that clearly this bill does not increase taxes. As 
chair of the Subcommittee on Department Operations, Oversight, 
Nutrition, and Forestry, I want to say that I am especially proud of 
this farm bill, what it does for the nutrition of minorities, seniors, 
disabled, single parents and for our veterans.

Right now there are 38 million Americans who do not have enough to 
eat. Eleven percent of the population are going hungry. Today in the 
Latino community and the African American community, that rate is 
double.

This farm bill fights hunger in America by making an historic 
investment in nutrition. Our nutrition title will benefit over 13 
million American families.

Currently the average food stamp recipient receives only $21 a week. 
That is unacceptable. This farm bill will make food stamps keep up with 
the cost of living. Gas, health care, housing and grocery bills have 
gone up, but food stamps haven't kept up. We are going to change that.

This is going to help working families, our disabled, our senior 
citizens, our veterans and our single parents. Most importantly, it is 
going to help our children. Fifty percent of food stamp recipients are 
kids. That is what this farm bill is about: feeding our children; 
leaving no child behind. This farm bill will ensure that children will 
have access to fresh fruits and vegetables in all schools by expanding 
the USDA snack program to all 50 States.

This farm bill ensures that senior citizens and disabled adults have 
enough to eat by continuing the Commodity Foods Supplemental Program 
and expanding access to farmers' markets.

What it will also do is help military families. For the first time, 
this bill exempts military combat pay from being counted against the 
income of men and women who are fighting for us.



Madam Chairman, I urge my colleagues to vote for this bill. It is an 
excellent bill that meets needs across America and helps all of us.

We're also going to make it easier for them to handle their paperwork 
processing by allowing telephone signatures.

And what about our military families? This is the first Farm Bill to 
exempt Special Military Combat pay from being counted against our 
military families who are trying to make ends meet while their loved 
ones are serving in places like Iraq or Afghanistan.

We have fought to ensure that Food Stamps cannot be privatized--and 
we have taken an extra step in this Farm Bill to remove the stigma in 
the Food Stamp program.

We are going to eliminate embarrassing coupons, transition everyone 
to EBT cards and change the name of the program to the Secure 
Supplemental Nutrition Access Program, or SSNAP.

Now our working families will be able to go to the store, swipe their 
SSNAP cards and bring food home to their children with dignity.

We also help support our food banks and soup kitchens by giving large 
increases to The Emergency Food Assistance Program.

The ''TEE-FAP'' not only serves our homeless, but provides life-
saving assistance to our families after natural disasters, like 
Hurricane Katrina.

Simply put, this Farm Bill strengthens our Nutrition safety net like 
no other firm bill has ever done before!

This farm bill is also historic in its commitment to diversity in 
Agriculture.

This bill increases agriculture opportunities for underserved 
communities such as African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans, and 
Asian-Pacific Islanders.

We give $150 million dollars in mandatory funding for outreach to 
small and socially disadvantaged farmers.

This bill also requires an annual report to Congress to see if our 
outreach to minority farmers is working.

The Farm Bill also creates an Advisory Board to deal with civil 
rights violations.

We require that 10 percent of conservation funding go to our small 
and disadvantaged farmers and ranchers.

The Farm Bill also creates new programs and increases funding for 
minority serving institutions and tribal colleges.

In addition--we have preserved the Davis-Bacon provision to ensure 
workers in rural America earn a decent wage.

We have worked hard to create a Reform Farm Bill that includes all of 
us--farmers, working families, minorities, urban communities, rural 
America.

This bill is a good bill that will ensure that all Americans get a 
fair shot.

It makes a historic investment in nutrition and increases 
opportunities for traditionally underserved communities. I urge my 
colleagues to support this vital legislation.