# VETERANS' BENEFITS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `b97825c07019e55178a3543cdaca303b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 30 July 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this gives me an opportunity 
for the first time to rise and thank Chairman Filner for the 
enthusiastic and passionate and newfound leadership that he has given 
to the Veterans' Affairs Committee. We thank him for being a beloved 
member of the veterans community. All over the Nation veterans are 
celebrating his chairmanship, and I thank him very much for his 
leadership, his bipartisan leadership with the ranking member of this 
committee.

And let me thank Chairwoman Herseth Sandlin for her leadership; and 
Mr. Boozman, thank you. This whole committee draws the affection of 
Members from both sides of the aisle, and both of you exhibit the kind 
of leadership that we and the veterans can be proud of.

I rise to support H.R. 1315 and acknowledge the many sections of the 
bill, which includes section 2, where the bill adopts Ms. Herseth 
Sandlin's legislation dealing with housing; and section 3, where Mr. 
Wynn of Maryland's legislation is adopted dealing with mortgage 
foreclosure; and section 5, which addresses the legislation of Mr. 
Reichert, which is so very important about employing our veterans.

I am proud that the basis for the new program dealing with the blind 
is based upon my bill, Visual Impairment Specialist Training Act. This 
VISTA act responds to the increasing numbers of veterans and soldiers 
who are now returning from the battlefield with vision injuries. I am 
proud that my legislation was strongly supported by Chairman Filner; 
Mr. Michaud, chairman of the Subcommittee on Health; and the co-chairs, 
as I have mentioned, of the Congressional Vision Caucus, Mr. Gene Green 
of Texas and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen of Florida.

This legislation is also supported by the Blind Veterans of America, 
an organization chartered by Congress in 1958, which has been for 
nearly 50 years the only veterans service organization exclusively 
dedicated to serving America's blind and visually impaired veterans.

Let me explain what this legislation does. We establish here and now 
an educational assistance program for persons pursuing training in 
blind rehabilitation. I thank the chairman for citing this legislation 
as a possible model for nurses and psychologists that may be needed as 
we move in the future.

There are approximately 160,000 legally blind veterans in the United 
States, but only 35,000 are currently enrolled in the Veterans Health 
Administration's services. It is estimated that there are over 1 
million low-vision veterans in the United States, and incidence of 
blindness among the total veteran population of 26 million are expected 
to increase by about 40 percent in the next 4 years. This is because 
the most prevalent causes of legal blindness and low vision are age-
related, and the average age of the veteran population is increasing. 
The current age is about 80 years old.

In addition, we know that there will be veterans coming home, because 
of the IED injuries in Iraq and Afghanistan, with injuries impacting 
their vision.

Let me also acknowledge the specifics of this legislation. It 
mandates that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide financial 
assistance to students enrolled in a program of study leading to a 
degree or certificate in visual impairment and/or orientation and 
mobility at an accredited educational institution in the U.S., provided 
they agree with the applicable requirements. As I said, the purpose of 
this scholarship program is to increase the supply of qualified blind 
rehabilitation specialists for the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
the Nation. It requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to widely 
publicize this scholarship program to colleges and universities across 
the Nation, especially institutions with large numbers of Hispanic 
students and HBCUs, Historically Black Colleges. This is particularly 
helpful to the minority population who are interested in the field of 
vision rehabilitation.

To apply and participate in this scholarship program, an applicant 
shall submit to the Secretary, or his designee, an application and 
agree to serve a 3-year period of obligated service in the Department 
of Veterans Affairs. This is the crux of the legislation, so that we 
have a mandatory pool of those individuals helping the veterans as they 
move forward.

The maximum award for any full-time student per academic year may not 
exceed $15,000. The maximum award for any part-time student shall be 
determined in proportion to the amount that would be the case if the 
student were full time. For any student, however, the total amount of 
assistance may not exceed $45,000.

This is good news. It trains individuals, gives them a scholarship, 
and it doesn't burden the Federal Government. Why, because the debt is 
owed to


the United States Government and therefore it cannot be discharged 
because of bankruptcy.

To conclude my remarks, I ask that my colleagues look carefully at 
this hopefully innovative approach to helping our veterans and our 
returning soldiers who will be in great need from the injuries they 
have experienced. I thank the bipartisan leadership of this committee 
and ask my colleagues to support the bill

Mr. Speaker, I proudly rise to strongly support H.R. 1315, the 
''Veterans' Benefit Improvement Act of 2007.'' I enthusiastically 
support this legislation because it keeps faith with the men and women 
who have worn the uniform in service to our country. Let me express my 
appreciation to Mr. Filner and Ms. Herseth Sandlin, the Chairman of the 
Veterans Affairs Committee and the Chairwoman of the Economic 
Opportunity Subcommittee, and to their respective ranking members, Mr. 
Buyer and Mr. Boozman, for their perseverance in shepherding this 
legislation to the House floor.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1315 consists of five main sections. Section 2 of 
the bill adopts Ms. Herseth Sandlin's legislation providing for 
specially adaptive housing (SAH) assistance to disabled servicemembers 
residing temporarily in housing owned by a family member. Under current 
law, a temporary grant may be available to veterans who are or will be 
temporarily residing in a home owned by a family member. This 
assistance, allowable up to $14,000, may be used to adapt the family 
member's home to meet the veteran's special needs at that time.

Section 5 of the bill, which is based on a proposal by Mr. Reichert 
of Washington, requires the Secretary of Labor to provide Congress an 
annual report on veterans' reemployment rights. Section 6 adds an 
additional representative from the National Governor's Association to 
the existing 15 member Advisory Committee on Veterans Employment, 
Training and Employer Outreach withIn the U.S. Department of Labor.

Each of these provisions is a useful, constructive, and welcome 
legislative initiative. Any of one of them would warrant an 
overwhelming vote in favor of the bill. But Mr. Speaker, what makes 
this legislation truly extraordinary is the inclusion of Section 4, 
which establishes a ''Visual Impairment and Orientation and Mobility 
Professionals Education Assistance Program.'' This legislation will 
close a large gap in the Nation's commitment to blind and low-vision 
veterans by establishing a scholarship program for students seeking 
training in blind rehabilitation.

I am proud and honored, Mr. Speaker, that the basis for this new 
program for our blind and low-vision veterans is the legislation I 
introduced earlier this Congress, H.R. 1240, the ''Vision Impairment 
Specialist Training Act,'' or VISTA Act of 2007. I am proud that my 
legislation was strongly supported by the chairman of the Veterans 
Affairs Committee, Mr. Filner; Mr. Michaud, the chair of this 
Committee's Subcommittee on Health; the co-chairs of the Congressional 
Vision Caucus, my colleague Mr. Gene Green of Texas and Ms. Ros-
Lehtinen of Florida. This legislation is also strongly supported by the 
Blind Veterans of America, an organization chartered by Congress in 
1958, which has been for nearly 50 years the only veterans service 
organization exclusively dedicated to serving America's blind and 
visually impaired veterans. Companion legislation, S.1672, ''The VA 
Vision Scholars Act of 2007,'' has already been introduced in the other 
body by Senators Hagel, Obama, and Brown.

Mr. Speaker, let me explain briefly why it is so important that we 
establish here and now an educational assistance program for persons 
pursuing training in blind rehabilitation.

There are approximately 160,000 legally blind veterans in the United 
States, but only 35,000 are currently enrolled in Veterans Health 
Administration services.

In addition, it is estimated that there are over 1 million low-vision 
veterans in the United States, and incidences of blindness among the 
total veteran population of 26 million are expected to increase by 
about 40 percent over the next few years. This is because the most 
prevalent causes of legal blindness and low vision are age-related, and 
the average age of the veteran population is increasing; the current 
average age is about 80 years old.

Members of the armed forces are important to our Nation and we show 
them our appreciation by taking care of them even after they have 
completed their service. But the fact is that there are not enough 
blind rehabilitation specialists to serve all legally blind and low-
vision veterans in the United States.

Blind rehabilitation training helps give these veterans awareness of 
and functioning in their surroundings and enables them to retain their 
independence and dignity. Veterans without these services may find it 
difficult to be self-sufficient, relying on others to perform certain 
skills or even simple tasks on their behalf.

Mr. Speaker, Public Law 104-262, the Eligibility Reform Act 1996, 
requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to maintain its capacity to 
provide specialized rehabilitative services to disabled veterans, but 
it cannot do so when there are not enough specialists to address these 
needs.

Last December, the Veterans Programs Extension Act was passed, which 
included a provision by Congressman Michael Michaud to increase the 
number of Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialists serving our 
Nation's veterans. However, there are currently not enough counselors 
certified in blind rehabilitation to provide for the growing number of 
blind or low-vision veterans, let alone the rest of our Nation's 
elderly population.

Section 4 of the legislation before us helps to remedy this situation 
by directing the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a 
scholarship program for students seeking a degree or certificate in 
blind rehabilitation (Vision Impairment and/or Orientation and 
Mobility). The availability of these scholarship opportunities will 
provide an incentive to students considering entry into the field.

Additionally, in exchange for the scholarship award, students are 
required to work for 3 years in a healthcare facility of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs, to ensure that our veterans are well cared for.

If I might, let me discuss this vital legislation in more detail. The 
legislation mandates that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
provide financial assistance to students enrolled in a program of study 
leading to a degree or certificate in Visual Impairment and/or 
Orientation and Mobility at an accredited educational institution in a 
U.S. state or territory, provided that they agree with applicable 
requirements.

As I stated earlier, the purpose of the scholarship program is to 
increase the supply of qualified blind rehabilitation specialists for 
the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Nation.

The legislation requires that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
widely publicize this scholarship program to colleges and universities 
across the Nation, especially institutions with large numbers of 
Hispanic students and HBCUs. This is a particularly salutary provision 
because African Americans, Hispanics, and other minorities are 
underrepresented in the field of vision rehabilitation.

To apply and participate in the scholarship program, an applicant 
shall submit to the Secretary, or his designee, an application and 
agree to serve a 3-year period of obligated service in the Department 
of Veterans Affairs. The legislation requires that the Secretary shall 
include among the application and agreement materials a fair summary of 
the rights and liabilities of the applicant if accepted into the 
program.

When the Secretary approves of the applicant's acceptance, the 
applicant shall be promptly notified and accepted into the program.

The amount of financial assistance provided for an applicant shall be 
the amount determined by the Secretary as being necessary to pay the 
tuition and fees of the applicant. If the applicant is enrolled in a 
dual degree or certification program, the amount awarded shall not 
exceed the amounts necessary for the minimum number of credit hours to 
achieve such dual certification or degree.


Financial assistance provided to an applicant by this scholarship 
program may supplement other educational assistance, as long as the 
total award does not exceed the tuition and fees required for an 
academic year.

The maximum award for any full-time student per academic year may not 
exceed $15,000. The maximum award for any part-time student should be 
determined in proportion to the amount that would be the case if the 
student were full-time. For any student, the total amount of assistance 
may not exceed $45,000.

The maximum duration for financial assistance under this program is 6 
years.

The agreement for participation in this scholarship program shall be 
signed by both the Secretary and the participant. The Secretary shall 
agree to provide the participant with the authorized financial 
assistance and the participant shall agree to: accept the 
assistance; maintain enrollment and attendance in the appropriate 
program of study; maintain an acceptable level of academic standing; 
serve as a full-time employee in the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
3 years within the first 6 years after completing the program and 
receiving the degree or certificate specified.


If the applicant fails to satisfy the requirements of the agreement, 
the applicant must repay the amount equal to the unearned portion of 
assistance, except in circumstances authorized by the Secretary. The 
Secretary shall establish procedures for determining the amount of the 
repayment required, as well as the circumstances under which an 
exception to the required repayment may be granted.

The Secretary shall prescribe regulations for the waiver or 
suspension of an applicant's obligation for service or payment whenever 
the


applicant's noncompliance is due to circumstances beyond his or her 
control or it is in the best interest of the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I should point out that an obligation to repay the 
Secretary under this section is a debt owed the United States. Thus, a 
discharge in bankruptcy does not discharge a person from a debt under 
this legislation if the discharge order is entered less than 5 years 
after the date of the termination of the agreement or contract.

Mr. Speaker, every morning when I arrive at my office, I am reminded 
of how fortunate I am to live in a Nation as great as the United 
States. Outside of my office there is a poster-board with the names and 
faces of those heroes from Houston, Texas, who have lost their lives 
wearing the uniform of our country. We live in a Nation where so many 
brave young men and women volunteer to the ultimate sacrifice so that 
their countrymen can enjoy the blessings of liberty. Now is the time to 
let our heroes know they have not been, and will never be, forgotten. 
They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and they deserve the best 
care. After all, this is the least we can do for those who have done so 
much for all of us.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, let me also thank the Staff of the Veterans 
Affairs Committee and the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity for 
their hard work. I also wish to pay special tribute to several members 
of my staff without whose valuable contributions this significant 
legislative achievement would not have been possible: Maggie Mitchell, 
Shelle Gordon, Mona Floyd, Yohannes Tsehai, and Gregory Berry.

Mr. Speaker, nothing brings greater honor to this body and the 
persons we are proud to represent than keeping faith with the men and 
women who have worn the uniform in service to our country. H.R. 1315 
keeps and extends our commitment to those who have risked their lives 
to defend our country. I urge all members to support this legislation.