# None
## `b97c3eb4c28ce962da01b90c0585ba39`
`Mr. McMAHON — 9 March 2010`

---


Mr. McMAHON. Madam Speaker, today, I congratulate Greece on her 189th 
anniversary of independence.

Greece has long been a close ally to the United States and rightly 
so, given that our founding fathers formulated the American political 
philosophy from the Greek ideals that were first conceptualized in 500 
BC.

Today, Greece is a partner in Afghanistan and continues to build 
bridges between cultures throughout Europe and the greater region.

Greece promotes peaceful dialogue and understanding through its own 
negotiations, particularly in regards to its divided neighbor, Cyprus.

Ending the occupation of Cyprus has long been a focus of my political 
career. Greece and Cyprus's steadfast commitment to finding peaceful 
people to people solutions to ending the occupation have touched and 
motivated my own work on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. In fact, 
Secretary Clinton described Cyprus as a strategic focal point in 
response to my questions on integrating the Island.

Today, thousands of Turkish and Greek Cypriots pass through various 
passageways between the occupied North and the Republic of Cyprus. 
There has not been one incidence of violence and many Turkish Cypriots 
escape the congestion of the occupation and enjoy education and health 
benefits in the Republic that they do not have in the North.

After over 35 years, it is time to bring peace to this island through 
a bi-zonal, bi-communal federation driven solely by the joint efforts 
of all Cypriots and Cypriots, only.

On a similar note, Greece has for years pursued the deserved rights 
of the leader of the Orthodox Christians, the Ecumenical Patriarchate. 
I will continue to advocate for the Patriarchate's recognition. I 
believe that this recognition would not only benefit the Patriarchate's 
legacy, but Turkey's multi-cultural history, as well.

Finally, I will work to make sure that a mutual agreeable name for 
the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, FYROM, is reached. After 
all, Macedonia is Greek!

Through its great history. Greece has always approached its own 
matters with grace. I am particularly proud of the Greek-Americans who, 
through, their advocacy and hard work, today heard the great news that 
Greece has finally been granted visa waiver status.

I cannot tell you how happy I am that families will finally be 
comfortably reuniting after years of a discriminatory status.

I thank President Obama and Secretary Napolitano for their decision 
and once again congratulate Greece on all that it has achieved and of 
course, all that it will achieve.