---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND
## `b97d5abe267243df24b3fca5b5bd8311`
`Mr. GREGG — 11 September 2007`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I rise to address this issue now because, 
as I understand, there is a bit of a lull here. I congratulate the 
managers for wanting to get the bill completed.

I want to continue this discussion that has been going forward today 
on the treatment of General Petraeus by the group MoveOn.org relative 
to the advertisement they ran, which has been shown on the floor a 
number of times, which referred to him as ''General Betray Us.'' I 
think it was a despicable act. I think it crosses the line, where 
someone who has dedicated his life to defending this Nation would be 
subjected to this type of a personal assassination, personality 
assassination, character assassination. It is totally inappropriate.

The troops serving us in Iraq are doing so because they believe 
unalterably in the cause of America. They believe what this Nation 
stands for is good and right. They are putting their lives on the line 
to make sure we can maintain the freedoms that are so critical to us. 
You can disagree with the policies on Iraq--and I have a lot of 
reservations about them, especially my severe concerns about what is 
happening with the Government of Iraq in both the area of creating a 
coalition government and stability, and specifically in the area of 
corruption.

But what you cannot argue with and what should not occur is to say to 
our troops who are out there every day facing danger and, obviously, a 
lethal threat, that we do not support them. Yet when you impugn in such 
a gratuitous and vicious way the integrity of their commander in the 
field, you clearly impugn the troops in the field also. It is wrong, 
and it should not be tolerated.


General Petraeus has a record which is extraordinary. He has 
dedicated almost four decades, I believe, to the military service of 
this country. He has received the Bronze Star, along with innumerable 
other decorations. He commanded the 101st Airborne. He has been to Iraq 
on three tours and spent the last 4 years overseas away from his 
family. He has put in place an initiative in Iraq which he generally 
believes, as his testimony has shown both yesterday and today before 
the House and the Senate, is making progress in a number of critical 
areas relative to the war on the ground, relative to fighting the 
Islamic terrorists who wish to do us harm.

Yet before he even got to the Senate or to the House to testify and 
make his case as to why he felt his policy, the policy he is pursuing 
as the general in command, is the correct policy and should be 
sustained, before that could even occur, his character was attacked in 
the most vicious way by people who oppose the war.

Opposing the war is a legitimate position. There are very strong 
arguments in that area. I do not happen to agree with many of them, but 
I respect those arguments when they are made substantively and 
appropriately. But when an organization, such as MoveOn.org, which is a 
national organization of dramatic influence, steps out and runs a full-
page ad at the cost of $160,000 in the New York Times which has as its 
title, ''Is he General Petraeus or General Betray Us,'' that is an 
inexcusable, vicious and petty act and not becoming of our society and 
a democracy generally.

The other side of the aisle--and I have the greatest respect for 
Members on the other side of the aisle relative to their commitment on 
this issue--the other side of the aisle said: It is not us doing this. 
Let's remember that MoveOn.org identifies with and openly claims to be 
a major player in the caucus of the Democratic Party. In fact, this 
weekend in the New York Times, the lead spokesman for MoveOn.org said--
and I paraphrase here--but he said: I meet regularly with the 
Democratic leaders of the Senate, and I talk almost daily to the 
Democratic staff of the Democratic leaders of the Senate.



Earlier in the year, MoveOn.org--and I believe it was the same 
individual, and I again paraphrase--said of the Democratic Party: We 
bought it, it is ours, we are going to dominate it. I see in New 
Hampshire that MoveOn.org is being one of the most aggressive arms of 
the Democratic Party in our State. They are the ones carrying the 
message relative to the war, relative to the Democratic leadership in 
our State, that is for sure.

So I think this attempt now to step away--the attempt isn't even 
occurring. But this statement by MoveOn.org, which is so over the top 
and so outrageous and so inexcusable in its treatment of an American 
soldier and the troops he commands, should be repudiated openly. It 
should be repudiated by this Senate because it is wrong. It is common 
decency that we should repudiate it.

Yet we see on this floor that procedural mechanisms are being used to 
protect MoveOn.org. That is what is happening here. Rule XVI, a 
procedural mechanism in this Senate, has been used to keep a very 
reasonably innocuous sense of the Senate from being brought forward to 
a vote. It doesn't take very long to vote on something such as this. We 
could set up a vote in 10 minutes.

What does this sense of the Senate, which is so inappropriate that it 
has to be knocked down by a procedural action, say? It says:




 (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate--



 (1) to reaffirm its support for all the men and women of 


 the United States Armed Forces, including General David H. 


 Petraeus, Commanding General, Multi-National Force--Iraq;



 (2) to strongly condemn any effort to attack the honor and 


 integrity of General Petraeus and all of the members of the 


 United States Armed Forces; and



 (3) to specifically repudiate the unwarranted personal 


 attacks on General Petraeus by the liberal activist group 


 MoveOn.org.


I think it is No. 3 that must bother my colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle, which is causing us not to be able to go to a vote on 
this amendment, that we would repudiate, probably from a financial 
standpoint, one of the biggest contributors to the efforts to fight the 
war and that organization, which openly claims to essentially be an arm 
of the Democratic Party, would be repudiated on the Senate floor. But 
they deserve to be repudiated.

Honestly, if an organization which identified itself with the 
Republican Party--I cannot think of any that we have that has the type 
of money that MoveOn.org has because we don't have any George Soroses 
funding us or any organization such as that, but if we did have such an 
organization and they did something such as this, I would immediately 
want to repudiate it because somebody of the character and commitment 
of General Petraeus does not deserve this attack. He came back to 
testify because he was asked to come back to testify by committees 
which are majority committees, committees where the majority is 
controlled by the Democratic leadership of the Congress. Yet before he 
gets here to testify before those committees, there is a clear attempt 
to discredit him personally because they do not like the message. So 
instead of attacking the message, they decided to kill the messenger or 
attempt to at least undermine the messenger. That is the goal of this 
ad, nothing more than a petty attempt to basically undermine the 
message General Petraeus has to deliver: We are going to attack him who 
is the messenger, which is gratuitous, inappropriate, inaccurate, 
unfair, and vicious, quite simply vicious, calling him ''General Betray 
Us.''


So if the majority party does not subscribe to this message, then 
they should allow us to offer this resolution right now while he is in 
town, while he is testifying before the Senate today and before the 
House yesterday. They should not ask us to wait until next week to 
correct this egregious act and to go on record to repudiate this 
egregious act. They should not use a parliamentary procedure to defend 
MoveOn.org. No, we should have a vote right now on this resolution, 
this sense of the Senate.

So at this point, I ask unanimous consent, Mr. President, that rule 
XVI not apply to this sense of the Senate and that a procedural attack 
on this sense of the Senate not be in order.