---
---

# THE BUDGET, DEBT AND THE BLUE DOG'S IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY LEGISLATION
## `b99586b4e7141bb225f42c02a26b5a8e`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. I thank my friend from Georgia.

I think, what my hope is, all of us become a little bit more civil in 
this debate that we are having and realize that this is about America. 
We want security and we want peace. We want the Iraqis to win. What we 
have done is destroyed an Army in Iraq and I agree with that, we have 
destroyed an Army in Iraq that was able to defend, or at least to 
resist the Iranian Army with three times the population they have for a 
period of over 10 years. We now have to be the Army for the Iraqis.

It is our responsibility to defend Iraq. In essence, I think we have 
to put our troops along the Syrian and Iranian border to be sure that 
no one interferes with Iraq and let the Iraqis settle their own 
differences. Twelve million Iraqis voted in December of 2005. They 
established their government; it is there. Departments elected. It is 
time we let them govern themselves, but we must protect them.

You have been very kind to allow me to be here participating in this 
Blue Dog conversation.

Before I leave, one thing I want to say, one of the reasons we have 
been in the Middle East since shortly after World War II, quite 
frankly, we were there to keep Germany from getting all the oil that 
could have helped them delay the war much longer in World War II, maybe 
even have won some territories. Europe may have looked totally 
different if Hitler and his Nazis had been able to get control of the 
oil fields in the Middle East. We have been there and have been invited 
by governments in the Middle East for some time. Folks may or may not 
have agreed with us, but the leaders who were there invited us to help 
them. Quite frankly, there was fear in the Cold War that that might go 
to the Communist Nations of Russia and perhaps even China. So we have 
been there for a reason.

We now are there we say to protect ourselves from terrorists. My 
opinion is that we have to stay there to protect the Iraqis from other 
aggressor Nations and let them solve their problems and then we can 
bring our troops home. We will be there for a long time. The American 
public understands that.

Thank you for allowing me to speak.