---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `b998c04978527b98954adc5bb4f46cf5`
`Mrs. LOWEY — 23 March 2007`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1591 and 
commend Chairman Obey, Chairman Murtha, and our Speaker for putting 
together a bill that protects our troops, responds to the will of the 
American people, and preserves our Nation's interests.

Our men and women in uniform have served with honor and courage, but 
we are not doing our part. Our Armed Forces are not battle-ready, nor 
is their mission clear and achievable. There is no definition of 
victory. The nature of the battle has changed, and our troops now find 
themselves policing a bloody civil war. It is well past time to set 
clear parameters for this war.

Since the beginning, this war and reconstruction efforts have been 
ill-managed. Just yesterday the Iraq IG reported yet again on how 
unprepared the administration was for the task of reconstruction. The 
Defense Department had no strategy for restoring government 
institutions, establishing security, or rebuilding infrastructure, and 
the State Department was cut completely out of the work.

There continues to be a lack of coordination and strategy to achieve 
our objectives. Putting billions of dollars more into this war without 
any parameters and risking the lives of more of our brave men and women 
is not only foolish; it is immoral. As the New York Times editorial 
noted on Thursday, if the President won't step up to the task of 
setting benchmarks and ensuring the safety of our troops, then it falls 
to us, this Congress.

Mr. Speaker, this bill does just that. We are stepping up to our 
responsibilities. This legislation does not micromanage the war, as 
many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle claim. It is a 
very carefully considered approach to bringing accountability to the 
execution of the war and to the reconstruction efforts. Moreover, it 
sets a date certain for the end of this war so we can bring our troops 
home.

No amount of American blood or treasure can help Iraq if the Iraqis 
don't help themselves. The Maliki government must exhibit the political 
will to confront extremists on both sides of the Sunni-Shia divide, to 
give all segments of society a stake in Iraq's future, and to put Iraqi 
revenues towards the hard task of reconstruction. Congress didn't pull 
these benchmarks from the air. They were put forth by the Iraqis and by 
President Bush in his January 10 speech.

Mr. Speaker, we are already into the fifth year of this war. The bill 
provides the funding the President requested, but it does not do so 
unconditionally. This bill sets benchmarks, provides a date certain for 
withdrawal.

The days of open-ended commitment and unilateral check-writing 
privileges are over. This bill deals with Iraq responsibly, and I urge 
my colleagues to support it.














 Parliamentary Inquiry
