---
---

# MAJORITY MAKERS
## `b99ad18c56fdcae2daceb1a51f126775`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Thank you, Congresswoman Sutton.

It's a pleasure to serve with you and the other 54 Members of our 
class. They call us freshmen. Some people call us freshmen. Some people 
call us majority makers. But clearly we're new Members, and I think 
that as new Members we probably have heard through some very active 
campaigns a very clear message from our communities and, that is, 
what's going on in Iraq, this is back in November, but continues to 
today, as your point is, is not working. And it's not working on a 
number of levels.

The way I sort of focus on this is the notion that all this should be 
about the national security of the American people. This is about what 
makes us safe in our homes, our communities, our States, our country. 
And yes, we obviously have interests around the world in other places 
as well. But first and foremost, what's important to us is at home, 
that we know our families and that we are protected.

The problem as I see it, and I think it has now been confirmed, and 
I'm on the Foreign Affairs Committee, so I've had the opportunity, as 
many of the Members of Congress have had, to get the briefings of a 
number of people, including members of the State Department and others, 
and we've all had the chance to go over and speak to the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff over at the Pentagon to get a firsthand question-and-answer 
about what the assumptions were in the surge and what the assumptions 
were in adding or subtracting military personnel and how our 
commitments were affecting the rest of our military and the rest of the 
commitments that we as Americans have internally. National Guard. I 
come from Florida. We have hurricane season, and are we at risk in 
terms of being able to respond, or anywhere in the world where our 
military is needed.

I think it's very clear, and I think most Americans understand this, 
that al Qaeda, Osama bin Laden, the people that perpetrated 9/11, it 
wasn't Iraq, it was Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda. Al Qaeda was not in 
Iraq at the time of September 11.

The bottom line is Osama bin Laden is still operating. Al Qaeda is 
still operating. And it's not operating in Baghdad. Sure there are 
cells in places in Iraq, and it's up to our military, and our military 
understands its responsibilities to root them out. Those are specific 
engagements and we should find those cells and root them out.

But al Qaeda is not limited to Iraq. They're operating in different 
parts of the world. Afghanistan is at a tipping point, as we understand 
it. Nobody, no Democrat or Republican, seems to be contesting that 
issue. Americans understand that the Taliban and al Qaeda are re-
emerging in Afghanistan. Yet, our assets, our men, our women, our 
military hardware and equipment are saddled and stuck in Iraq. That's 
not to say that there's not a terrible situation in Iraq. It is a 
terrible situation.

But as Americans, we have to put ourselves first and say, what's in 
the best interest for America? Both here at home, and dealing with 
Afghanistan, dealing if there's a problem in Pakistan, dealing with 
Iran, dealing with North Korea. These are the potential hot spots 
around the world, where there are potential nuclear issues and things 
like that.

My biggest concern all along, and I know I shar this with certainly 
all Members of our Democratic side, and I know many Republicans. This 
is not a Democrat-Republican issue. This is an American issue. It's 
what is the right thing to do. I think it's very clear, based on 
everything we've seen so far, is that this is not going to get resolved 
now, 6 months from now, a year from now, 5, 10 years from now, with 
just a military solution.


Senator Lindsay Graham, a Republican from the Carolinas, was before 
our Foreign Affairs Committee today, and he said he was there. He also 
specifically said, listen, our generals are generals. He comes from a 
military background. He did work in the legal corps of our military. He 
said, but, you know, generals are not always necessarily right. Ask 
them the tough questions. I know when General Petraeus came before our 
committee and many of us listened very carefully as to what he had to 
say, many of us were not quite fully satisfied that the answers were 
consistent. On the one hand he said, yeah, we're going to draw down. On 
the other hand he's saying, we need power, we need troops, we need, you 
know, the power to make sure that everything is there. It didn't all 
sound consistent to me.

But the bottom line is I think we need to be strategic and smart. And 
redeployment is not a question of getting everybody out immediately. 
Nobody is suggesting that among our group here today. What we are 
saying is be smart. Secure the borders. Do some things to make sure 
this doesn't spill out. Really double and triple our efforts to retrain 
the military, and there are other ideas not limited to anybody in this 
room. There are lots of generals out there, retired and active, that 
are coming up with good suggestions.

But repackaging the stay-the-course approach, which is what is going 
on right now, is not the answer. We need to have a better answer to 
protect our men and women in the field, and protect America most 
significantly, at home and abroad.