# IN HONOR OF THE CHESTER COUNTY COUNCIL'S CELEBRATION OF THE 100TH  ANNIVERSARY OF THE BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA
## `b99c7560187f9278a3b7b77517b1be4a`
`Mr. SESTAK — 23 March 2010`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Madam Speaker, today I honor the Boy Scouts of America 
(BSA) on the occasion of the 100th Anniversary of that remarkable 
organization and celebration of that milestone by one of the BSA's 
premier institutions, the Chester County Council headquartered in West 
Chester, Pennsylvania.

As we well know, the BSA is one of the nation's largest and most 
prominent values-based youth development organizations. The Boy Scouts 
provide a program for young people that builds character, trains them 
in the responsibilities of participating citizenship, and develops 
personal fitness. For a century, the BSA has helped build the future 
leaders of this country by combining educational activities and 
lifelong values with fun. The Boy Scouts of America believes--and, 
through a century of experience, knows--that helping youth is a key to 
building a more conscientious, responsible, and productive society.

It is the purpose of the Chester County Council to provide the 
communities of Chester County in Pennsylvania and the northwestern 
corner of Cecil County in Maryland with the finest of Scouting programs 
and services. They have done so admirably since 1910 with the fledgling 
West Chester Troop 1. The following year a more robust Paoli Troop 1 
was formed and today it is the oldest continuously documented troop in 
Chester County.

The Chester County Council is comprised of four exceedingly well run 
districts: Lenni Lenape serving communities in the West Chester Area 
and Unionville-Chadds Ford School Districts; Diamond Rock serving the 
Phoenixville Area, Great Valley, and Tredyfferin-Easttown School 
Districts; Horseshoe Trail serving the Downingtown Area, Coatesville 
Area, Owen J. Roberts, and Chester County portions of Twin Valley and 
Spring-Ford School Districts; and Octoraro serving the Avon Grove, 
Kennett Consolidated, Octorara, Oxford School Districts and the Cecil 
County, Maryland communities of Rising Sun and Conowingo. Together 
these impressive organizations offer 151 sponsored clubs with 
approximately 13,000 members.

Joining the Chester County Council in its centennial celebration will 
be two American heroes, Drs. Vincent and Vance Moss. Vince, a 
cardiothoracic surgeon, and Vance, a renal transplant surgeon, earned 
the rank of Eagle Scout at the age of 14. Soon after, they joined the 
Civil Air Patrol to earn the second highest honor in that 
organization--the Amelia Earhart award. Drs. Moss and Moss earned their 
undergraduate degrees in Science from Pennsylvania State University and 
medical degrees from Temple University School of Medicine. While at 
Temple, Drs. Moss and Moss initiated ''Increase the Peace'' rallies in 
and around Philadelphia to help combat violent crimes against African 
Americans. After graduating from medical school, they were each 
commissioned as a Captain in the United States Army Medical Corps in 
1998, and promoted to Major in 2004. In the course of their military 
service, these two extraordinary humanitarians have deployed to 
Afghanistan and Iraq as members of the U.S. Army Reserves where they 
have rendered inestimable assistance to Afghan and Iraqi civilians and 
our Soldiers in the field. They are role models of the first order and 
epitomize all that is right in Scouting and the United States of 
America.

The Boy Scouts' record of achievement is exemplary, and I join all of 
the good people of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and our nation in 
wishing the Boy Scouts of America and its Chester County Council 
another century of invaluable service to our community.
