# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `b9a8060fc36633fb5714cc9882d2b77d`
`Mr. INOUYE â€” 24 May 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, today the Senate will begin consideration 
of H.R. 4899, the FEMA supplemental as passed by the House on March 24 
and marked up by the Senate Appropriations Committee on Thursday, May 
13. As my colleagues may be aware, several attempts were made to 
proceed to the House-passed bill, but there were objections to 
proceeding.

Because of the delay in acting upon the House bill, the vice chairman 
and I agreed that we should consider all of the supplemental provisions 
in the jurisdiction of the Appropriations Committee that are pending 
before the Congress instead of just the FEMA portion as proposed by the 
House. The committee concurred in this recommendation and forwarded the 
bill to the full Senate by a unanimous vote of 30 to 0.

This bill contains $45.4 billion in discretionary spending and $13.4 
billion in spending on mandatory programs. This amount is the same as 
the amount requested by the President. I want to point out to all of my 
colleagues that the bill does not include funding for the settlements 
between the Federal Government and African American-farmers and Native 
Americans.

While I am strongly in favor of funding these settlements, these 
items are, in fact not in the jurisdiction of the Appropriations 
Committee. We have been informed by the leadership that these matters 
will be addressed elsewhere. I understand and expect that funding for 
these two settlements will be approved by the Congress and forwarded to 
the White House before the Memorial Day recess.

The recommendations that Vice Chairman Cochran and I are presenting 
to you on behalf of the appropriations Committee reflect the collective 
efforts of each of our subcommittees. The main parts of the bill 
include $33.5 billion in Department of Defense funding to cover the 
cost of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, combat terrorism, and respond 
to the earthquake in Haiti. An additional $6.5 billion is provided for 
the State Department and other agencies in support of these and related 
efforts.

The bill also includes $68 million in the first payment to cover 
Federal responsibilities resulting from the oilspill in the gulf. We 
recognize that additional funding and new legislative authorities are 
likely to be required in response to the oilspill. The amount we 
recommend results from our review of the budget amendment which was 
only submitted to the Administration the day before the committee 
markup. We are confident that the sums recommended are necessary but 
recognize more action will be needed in the coming months.

As requested, the committee is also recommending $5.1 billion for 
FEMA'S disaster relief efforts. Everyone should be aware that the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency is out of funding for disaster 
relief. Even this sum is below what we anticipate will be required 
before the end of this year. However, the recommended sum is the amount 
sought by the Administration. The committee was unable to identify 
additional offsets to increase the total funding for FEMA.

In addition to these, the committee has identified rescissions and 
other savings within the Administration's request to address many 
natural disasters for which the Administration did not request 
assistance.

Two weeks ago, more than 40 counties in Tennessee were underwater. 
Rhode Island suffered through a once in a 500-year storm in March. A 
disaster was declared by the President in January for fisheries in 
Alaska. Tornadoes have tormented the Midwest and South. We have dams in 
need of emergency repair in the Northwest and an urgent requirement to 
address mine safety, but no funds have been requested to address these 
needs. Nothing has been offered to offset the enormous cost of clean-up 
and reconstruction for the States and communities which have suffered.

In total, the committee has provided more than $425 million to 
address the disaster related shortfalls that were not requested by the 
Administration. This is a mere pittance when compared to the $1 or $2 
billion that is needed now to meet these needs, but it was that we 
could identify so late in the fiscal year to help meet these legitimate 
emergency costs.

Some will say, ''Well, surely there are other offsets.'' I do not 
deny there are unobligated funds, but unobligated does not mean 
unneeded. For example, last week we identified a program with $8.3 
billion unobligated, the Joint Strike Fighter. The contract award for 
the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter has been delayed by months. Accordingly, 
the funding remains unobligated. Surely those that want to cut 
unobligated balances to offset the cost of this bill do not want us to 
rescind funds for this new fighter.

We are told that some of our colleagues would like to send members of 
the National Guard to the border using unobligated balances to pay that 
cost.

Well, I would point out that we have more than $2.6 billion in 
unobligated balances in funding that the Congress has appropriated over 
the past 3 years to purchase additional equipment for our National 
Guard and Reserve Forces. I suppose we could reallocate funds from that 
account to cover the cost of stationing additional National Guard 
troops on the border, But I doubt the proponents of such an amendment 
would support that. Moreover, like funding for the Joint Strike 
Fighter, the amount provided for National Guard equipment is needed 
even if it has not yet been spent.

In recent months the rhetoric on Federal spending has focused solely 
on how much money has been spent rather than on what was necessary and 
what is still required. Many Senators question why we bailed out Wall 
Street. Others ask why we used Federal funds to ''prime the pump'' of 
our economy through the Recovery Act. I, for one, believe both were 
necessary to forestall an economic depression. Over the past few months 
as the stock market has rebounded and we have seen the beginnings of 
job creation, I am more confident than ever that the Congress acted 
wisely.

But I want to inform all my colleagues that this bill is neither a 
bailout nor a stimulus. Instead, it is the minimum necessary to support 
our troops in harm's way and to meet emergency domestic and 
international requirements. The vice chairman and I agreed that the 
bill recommended by the committee would stay within the amounts 
requested by the Administration, even though we know more could be 
justified for these purposes.

I recognize that many Senators on both sides of the aisle believe we 
simply should not spend more, but I say to you the Nation still has 
legitimate needs and a responsibility to act. We cannot stop investing 
in our Nation simply because of high deficits. This is a time for 
fiscal austerity but not for cutting legitimate spending needs. I can 
assure my colleagues this bill is both austere and responsible.

The items in this bill are all either fully offset or bona fide 
emergencies. Many items are both emergency and offset to stay within 
the budget request. As chairman of this committee, I believe there are 
many more items which could be justified; but, to maintain necessary 
support for this bill, Vice Chairman Cochran and I committed to holding 
the line on spending. The committee met that objective.

I want to thank Vice Chairman Cochran and his staff for their 
dedication and cooperation. This bill has been written in a completely 
bipartisan fashion, with input from all the chairmen and ranking 
members of our 12 subcommittees. I thank all members of the committee 
for their enormous contributions to this bill.

Let me be clear. FEMA is out of money. More than 40 States have been 
told that they must wait for funds to cover disaster bills. Communities 
throughout the Northeast and Southeast are waiting for funds in this 
bill to begin rebuilding after devastating floods. We have an urgent 
requirement to respond rapidly to the devastating effects of the 
oilspill in the gulf. Funding for all of these cannot wait while


some might seek to delay action on this bill.

But most importantly, next week, the Nation will honor those who 
sacrificed their lives in defense of our country. As I have said on 
many occasions, my colleagues should be mindful that less than 1 
percent of our population has volunteered to wear our country's 
uniform, to serve the rest of us. They defend our freedom, our way of 
life. They are called upon ever more frequently to leave their families 
behind and report to dangerous and inhospitable locations. Willingly, 
they do so.

The Senate owes them a debt of gratitude for their patriotism and 
sacrifice. I can think of no better way to honor those who serve today 
and those who have gone before than by passing this bill expeditiously 
so that it can be forwarded to the House for action.

I urge all Members to work with Vice Chairman Cochran and me to 
support this bill and secure its quick passage.

I yield the floor.