---
---

# IMPROVING HEAD START FOR SCHOOL READINESS ACT OF 2007--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `b9a8408e3aaee740103212b3c596161a`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. No, a total of 12. If the Chair will let me know when I 
have a minute and a half, I would appreciate that.

Planning for Head Start began in the early 1960s, before we knew all 
that we know today about how to best intervene and support the lives of 
young children living in poverty. At that time, as Attorney General, my 
brother Robert Kennedy decided to tackle the problem of juvenile 
delinquency. Research pointed to poverty as the root of the Nation's 
social and economic challenges. It was agreed that a strategy based on 
early education could be a significant part of the answer.

In August 1964, President Johnson and Congress launched the war on 
poverty by passing the Economic Opportunity Act. The Nation's poor 
numbered 10 million, with nearly half under the age of 12.

In the fall of that year, my brother-in-law, Sargent Shriver, 
convened a panel of experts in child development, education, public 
health, and social work to lay a foundation for the Head Start program. 
He envisioned a bold national commitment to prepare our neediest 
children for kindergarten and first grade. He conferred with experts 
like Dr. Edward Zigler, who is still a vigorous, forceful advocate for 
children, and they agreed that a comprehensive approach was needed. 
Preschool was the centerpiece of the plan, but a major emphasis was 
placed on health care and parent involvement, too.

The following year, Head Start came into being as an 8-week summer 
program. With the help of thousands of volunteers, it served 560,000 
children through preschool classes, medical and dental care, and health 
services. Over the years, it would reach over 24 million.

Today the face of poverty and of America's neediest families has 
changed. The American workplace has changed, and our education system 
is being challenged to keep up with the global economy. Head Start has 
always adapted, finding new ways to respond to the demands on low-
income, working families. But its mission has remained the same--to 
help our most vulnerable children succeed in school and in life.

When parents are asked what they most want to accomplish in life, 
their answer undoubtedly includes a desire to open the doors of 
opportunity for their children. They want a fair chance for their 
children to grow up in a healthy and safe environment, to graduate from 
high school and go on to college, and to achieve the American dream.

That dream should be available to every child in America. But far too 
often, families are still struggling to put food on the table, buy 
clothes for their children, pay the rent, or see a doctor. Poverty is 
again on the rise. Today, one out of every five children in America 
grows up poor.

Poverty has many dimensions. It is a labor issue, because pay is so 
low and workers are exploited. It is a civil rights issue, because so 
many African American and Latino families are often the ones left 
behind. It is a health care issue, because the health care that 
families in poverty receive is so substandard. Most of all, it is a 
children's issue, because the children of the poor have done nothing 
wrong. But they still pay the price.

It is our responsibility as a Nation to help those in need. The 
Federal bedrock of that commitment is Head Start. It has always been an 
important symbol of our responsibility to others. At its core are the 
values that shaped our democracy: Equity, opportunity, community 
empowerment, and economic progress.

Head Start is based on the premise that education is the key to the 
future and to breaking down the destructive forces of poverty.


It provides the starting point for a child's day, with a healthy meal 
each morning and a promise to parents that while they are at work and 
balancing two jobs, their children will see a doctor and dentist, and 
receive immunizations.

It provides children with the building blocks they need to enter 
school ready to learn. It teaches the social and emotional skills 
needed by children to pay attention in the classroom and get along well 
with others. It expands their vocabulary, gets them excited about 
reading, and teaches them to count.

It welcomes parents into its programs, gives them opportunities to 
make decisions about their child's learning and development, and 
sometimes helps families find a roof for over their head.

Over the years, with each new educational and developmental advance 
in research, we have learned more about how Head Start can be improved. 
And with that learning, modifications have been made to enable the 
program to be even more effective.

In 1972, the Child Development Associate program was established, to 
provide a standard of quality for Head Start teachers and aides.

In 1974, the reauthorization of Head Start established the 
comprehensive Program Performance Standards to guide Head Start centers 
in providing essential educational, health, and social services, and 
achieving parental involvement. The reauthorization also paved the way 
for a network of training and technical assistance activities to help 
Head Start agencies enhance the quality of their programs.

In the 1980s and early 1990s, the Indian and Migrant Head Start 
programs were formed, and family service centers were established to 
combat illiteracy, substance abuse, and unemployment in Head Start 
communities. At that time, Head Start also began its important focus on 
improving transitions for preschool children to public schools.

In 1994, we created Early Head Start to serve low-income infants and 
toddlers in the first 3 years of their development. That legislation 
also led to the development of improved performance measures to assess 
outcomes in Head Start and new guidelines for monitoring Head Start 
programs.



The current reauthorization applies the lessons learned from the past 
with the new knowledge of child development and early education to 
enable Head Start to be even more successful in the years ahead.

There is no question that Head Start is effective. Our own federally 
mandated study of Head Start found that it expands children's 
vocabularies, and makes the greatest difference for those with the 
greatest needs. Head Start improves children's writing skills, and 
helps children grow in their social skills and behavior.

By the time Head Start children complete their kindergarten year, 
their skills and developmental abilities are near the national average, 
with scores of 99 in early literacy, 98 in early writing, 95 in early 
math, and 95 in vocabulary.

We are talking about the most disadvantaged children in America. They 
are often well behind in terms of their ability to enter school ready 
to start. Look at the results at the end of kindergarten. Head Start 
children catch up to their peers, to the national norm. It brings the 
children up so, hopefully, we will be, as a country and society, more 
equitable, more fair.

This reauthorization maintains high standards and comprehensive 
services in Head Start. It upgrades educational components of the 
program, and ensures that it delivers the skills and support that 
children need to succeed in kindergarten and the early grades. It 
promotes greater partnerships between Head Start programs and local 
schools, and ensures that services continue to be framed by the highly 
effective Head Start Child Outcomes Framework. It also provides a 
needed bridge for parents to their local schools, to promote greater 
coordination and ease the transition of children from preschool to 
kindergarten.

We also terminate the flawed National Reporting System, and ensure 
that new educational standards and measures used in Head Start will be 
informed by the National Academy of Sciences. Two years ago, the 
Government Accountability Office confirmed many of our long-standing 
concerns with this assessment, concluding that the test is not valid to 
make determinations about programs and students. The study also 
confirmed that the test was inconsistent with nationally-recognized 
testing standards, and unclear in its purpose.

This reauthorization ensures that any assessments used in Head Start 
will be valid and reliable, fair to children from all backgrounds, and 
measure the whole child. Head Start children and their families deserve 
nothing less.

Head Start teachers and staff are the heart and future of the 
program. They help children learn to identify letters and arrange the 
pieces of puzzles. They teach them to brush their teeth, wash their 
hands, make friends, and follow rules.

This reauthorization sets important and unprecedented goals for 
enhancing the skills and qualifications of Head Start teachers and 
staff. In this reauthorization, we are striving to help all teachers 
earn their associate's degree over the next 6 years, help half of all 
teachers in Head Start earn their bachelor's degree, and help all 
assistant teachers work toward completing a CDA or another early 
education credential.


These are ambitious goals. But we know that learning and development 
of young children require good teachers and that there is a strong link 
between educational qualifications and the quality of programs.

The quality of a program doesn't just depend on the educational 
background of its teachers, which is why we are also calling for 
professional development and a career advancement plan for every Head 
Start employee including family service workers, assistant teachers, 
and curriculum coordinators. We have established new partnerships to 
increase staff in Head Start who are prepared to serve the diverse 
children enrolled in the programs.

Most of all, we have worked to ensure that Head Start agencies have a 
dedicated stream of funds to provide needed training for teachers. The 
reauthorization dedicates $2 million this year to local training and 
improvement efforts, much of which will be used to improve and 
strengthen the Head Start workforce. We commit to confronting the 
persistent challenge of compensating Head Start teachers as the 
professionals that they are. Head Start teachers earn half the salary 
of kindergarten teachers, and turnover is about 11 percent per year.

This conference report commits 40 percent of new funds in Head Start 
to program quality and teacher salaries, to do more to attract and 
retain caring and committed leaders. It ensures that each Head Start 
Center will receive an annual cost-of-living increase to keep up with 
the rising costs of operation and overhead.

We grant additional flexibility in this reauthorization for Head 
Start to serve thousands of additional low-income children in need, by 
including families just above the Federal poverty level. It is 
essential for Head Start to prioritize its services to the neediest 
families in their communities. But this new flexibility enables those 
living near poverty and earning less than what they need to get by to 
receive assistance too. It is the right thing to do, and it is what 
Head Start is all about.

The reauthorization also makes a long-overdue commitment to expanding 
Head Start programs in Indian country, and programs for migrant and 
seasonal farmworkers. By reserving up to $20 million annually to expand 
services in these programs, we can hopefully reach an additional 5,500 
migrant children and an additional 5,100 Native American children 
living in poverty. New provisions are also included to enhance services 
for homeless children, children who are English language learners, and 
children with disabilities in order to ensure that these populations 
receive the care and attention they deserve.

Accountability is a cornerstone of excellence and should start early. 
Head Start should be accountable for its commitment to provide safe and 
healthy learning environments, to support each child's individual 
pattern of development and learning, to build community partnerships in 
services to children, and to involve parents in their child's growth.

This reauthorization makes significant progress in increasing 
accountability and investing in excellence in Head Start. It continues 
the comprehensive monitoring that has become a hallmark of Head Start, 
and ensures that reviews are fair and balanced in order to account for 
challenges and strengths in programs. It also establishes a new system 
for the designation of Head Start grants, to be phased in over the next 
several years.

We know that the vast majority of Head Start programs provide 
outstanding services--fewer than 20 percent of programs are found to be 
deficient each year. But where serious deficiencies exist, we must see 
that substantial problems do not languish at the expense of children. 
If a local program is unable to meet Head Start's high standards of 
quality, timely action should be taken. This new system will facilitate 
accountability and funding decisions, and do so in a manner that is 
transparent, fair, and responsive to the local needs of families and 
children.

We have established greater accountability for enrollment in programs 
and delineated a clear system of governance in Head Start.

The reauthorization also takes important steps to expand Early Head 
Start. Since its inception, results have proven that Early Head Start 
is one of the most effective programs of the Department of Health and 
Human Services. In this legislation, we improve the training and 
assistance network serving Early Head Start and guarantee a dedicated 
expert in each State to work with programs to meet the needs of infants 
and toddlers. We also expand the screening available to infants exposed 
to trauma, violence, or other circumstances detrimental to their 
development. We commit to expanding Early Head Start to serve an 
additional 8,000 low-income infants and toddlers over the next 5 years.

As in elementary and secondary education, reform in early childhood 
education requires resources. Today, half of all children eligible for 
Head Start have no access to it. Early Head Start however, serves only 
3 percent of eligible infants and toddlers--we leave behind a shameful 
97 percent.

When Sargent Shriver discussed the war on poverty, he said ''You have 
to put immense resources into winning a


war.'' He was right, and he wasn't talking about wars like Iraq. He was 
talking about the war on poverty. This conference report increases 
authorizations for Head Start to $7.3 billion in fiscal year 2008, $7.6 
billion in fiscal year 2009, and $7.9 billion in fiscal year 2010. On a 
bipartisan basis, the conferees have signaled a commitment to invest 
more in our youngest children, and to assist Head Start in responding 
to the changing and evolving needs of the communities it serves.

Research shows that the first 5 years of life make an immense 
difference for a child. Those who attend high-quality early education 
programs are more likely to do well when they reach elementary school, 
are less likely to be held back a grade, and are more likely to 
graduate from high school and go on to college.


Our Federal investment in early childhood education clearly pays 
off-- for every dollar invested in high-quality early education, there 
is a 16 dollar return later in life.

All children--regardless of their background--deserve to learn and 
develop. We need to strengthen early childhood for young children, in 
order to help them succeed later in school and in life.

A comprehensive curriculum and a stable and well-qualified workforce 
are cornerstones of a good early education. I am especially pleased 
that this reauthorization of Head Start includes a blueprint to 
strengthen the array of early childhood programs and services for young 
children.

The bill establishes an Early Childhood Advisory Council to examine 
needs of early childhood programs, develop a plan to improve 
professional development, upgrade standards, enhance collaboration 
among programs, and improve data collection.

More than 40 States have early learning standards in place or under 
development. States such as Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Illinois 
have developed the systems needed to improve program quality and expand 
access to programs in the early years. We need to build on that 
progress. States that are ready to take on the challenge of 
implementing needed improvements in their early education programs will 
qualify for incentive grants to get such improvements under way.

One of our highest priorities in Congress is to expand educational 
opportunities for every American. In this age of globalization, every 
citizen deserves a chance to acquire the skills needed to compete in 
the modern economy. That challenge begins at birth, and accelerates in 
the early years of life well before children even begin kindergarten.

This reauthorization helps us reach this essential goal. It keeps 
Head Start on its successful path, and enables it to continue to thrive 
and improve.

We still haven't won the war on poverty in America. But thanks to 
Head Start, we are getting closer. Day by day, and one child at a time. 
This conference report continues that indispensable progress, and I 
urge my colleagues to approve it.

Mr. President, we have others who desire to speak at this time. I 
will have a chance with the remaining time, perhaps, to get into some 
of the additional items.

Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time.