# None
## `b9b0be76a864a48440a6e1a7ecaba3e9`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute 
to a U.S. Army brigade from Fort Lewis, Washington, that has served 
with distinction in Iraq.

On October 11, the last of the roughly 3,800 men and women of the 3rd 
Brigade-2nd Infantry Division returned home to Fort Lewis after 
completing their second deployment to Iraq. The Arrowhead Brigade has 
been a trailblazer for the Army as the first brigade to be outfitted 
with the Stryker combat vehicles, the first Stryker Brigade to serve in 
Iraq, and now the first Stryker Brigade to complete two tours in Iraq.

During their recent deployment, the Arrowhead Brigade supported 
operations in Mosul, Baghdad, Baqubah, and other critical areas. On 
several occasions they were asked to secure downed U.S. aircraft and 
the sites of numerous suicide attacks. In addition, the Arrowhead 
Brigade constantly remained prepared to mobilize and deploy anywhere in 
Iraq for any number of contingencies within 24 hours.

In tribute to their brave service, seven members of the brigade were 
awarded the Silver Star, the United States' third highest award for 
combat valor. In the course of their deployment, the Arrowhead Brigade 
lost 48 of their comrades, with another 700 wounded.

I want to express my deep condolences to the 3-2 Brigade and the 
families of those fallen soldiers. Their contribution and sacrifice 
will not be forgotten. The men and women of the 3-2 Brigade have done 
everything their country has asked of them and more. We all should have 
the utmost respect and admiration for their service and sacrifice.
