# None
## `b9bf37c215e3314239db436ec51f5605`
`Ms. WATSON — 10 June 2008`

---


Ms. WATSON. I would just like to read some of the 51 stories of 
Americans with cancer who suddenly find themselves overburdened with 
medical bills, and they have gaps in their coverage. These are real 
people, Mr. Speaker. These are real Americans who are calling out to 
us.

As you know, we've had two very fine proposals coming from Senator 
Hillary Clinton and Senator Barack Obama that would address access to 
health care.

Over on our side, in our House, we have the valiant efforts over the 
years of Congressman John Conyers, Jr. He would have been here today, 
but there was a conflict. But he will continue the drum beat and the 
call for us to get down to business so we can have accessible health 
care.

I'd like to take some time to read you the plight of real Americans. 
This one is Susan M. She said, ''My husband, Tom, was diagnosed with 
lymphoma in 1996, just 4 months after our daughter was born. He 
underwent three series of chemotherapy before dying of encephalitis in 
2001. At that time the entire family was insured through his employer.

''The monthly premiums went to $900 per month, and since I had left 
my job to care for him, I didn't have many options. I was able to get 
the kids covered by Medicaid, and I signed up for Ingram Health, which 
only covers doctors visits and prescriptions, not hospitalization or 
long-term treatment. This carried us along until a mammogram showed I 
had breast cancer in 2006, then I was put in to the breast and cervical 
cancer program. I received excellent care and am currently cancer-free.

''Earlier this year I took a contract position for 6 months at 20 to 
30 hours per week. Working again helped my attitude tremendously. The 
depression I had struggled with for 10 years started to lift, and I was 
feeling positive about my future prospects.

''But, of course, the extra income meant that my kids were no longer 
eligible for Medicaid. So I had the added stress of finding insurance 
for them. I was afraid that my eligibility in the breast and cervical 
cancer program was also in jeopardy, so I never told my case manager 
about working.

''Now, the contract has run out and I'm looking for work again. I'm 
afraid that my coverage under the breast and cancer program will end 
before I can


get a job with benefits. And the bill for the children's insurance will 
be due in a few weeks. And I worry about what impact a pre-existing 
condition will have on my job prospects.

''It doesn't seem fair that my health should be tied so punitively to 
a job. It just adds to the emotional stress, which is already too high.

''Thank you for reading and thank you for caring.''

That was from Susan M.

Jennifer G says, ''My mother suffered and died with ovarian cancer. 
It was terrible. And as with many ovarian cancers, hers was not 
detected until it was way too late for successful treatment.

I am 36 years old now. My husband and I are finished having children. 
My doctor recommended that I have a hysterectomy because my risk of 
getting ovarian cancer is much higher now.

I am lucky enough to have health insurance. Unfortunately, an 
accountant working for the insurance company is able to override what 
my doctor recommends because they don't want to pay for it. They would 
rather take the gamble that I may or may not get the cancer. I, of 
course, would rather not gamble with my life.

''I am all for everyone having health insurance and having access to 
whatever health care they need. However, being covered by health 
insurance does not guarantee that you will get the treatment you need 
or any treatment that your doctor might recommend.

''It is not enough to demand coverage for all people. Insurance 
companies would still have the power to say no any time they want to 
save some money.

''And I don't have the solutions. I can just recommend that this is a 
problem on two levels. Getting some kind of universal health care 
coverage will just be the first step. Getting insurance companies to 
cooperate with doctors decisions will be the next step. This is where 
much of the reform will need to happen.

''Plus, I know several people who are fighting cancer and recovering 
from cancer. All of them have health insurance. Most of them are being 
denied coverage for medicine to fight their cancer. It is pathetic to 
have health insurance and not be able to count on it to help you when 
you need it the most.''

And Mr. Speaker, just this morning, I was called to be told that one 
of our dear friends and PR persons died of cancer at 2 a.m. this 
morning. Her name was Pat Tobin. She came from Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, to Los Angeles a couple of decades ago. She has a 
daughter, a sister.

And we went to her bedside on Friday, and I could see at that point 
that she possibly would not make it through the night. But she did. She 
made it until 2:00 a.m. this morning.

And I tell about that particular account because if we could set 
priorities in this country to cover the health needs of all Americans, 
rather than pour billions of dollars into a conflict 10,000 miles away, 
that I see never ending, and I see us involving ourselves in sectorial 
problems that we don't even understand. We don't even understand the 
language the people speak. How in the world could we understand their 
customs and their conflicts with each other?

If we could take that money out of the gopher hole it's in and put it 
into research in this country to stop this deadly epidemic of cancer 
throughout our land, wouldn't this make our country stronger?

We're losing 4,000, we have lost 4,090 people, and countless innocent 
Iraqis and others. I hear it could be as much as 300,000.

But no, we stupidly, stupidly and incorrectly continue to dump 
monies, and we don't even take care of our own domestic priorities.

We argued over health care for children? Every child in this country, 
whether that child is here with legal papers or not, not only deserves 
an education, but deserves health care. What kind of country are we 
that let its own people die because insurance companies are saying oh, 
no, that's too much?

And we never see their actuarial data, by the way, Mr. Speaker. That 
actuarial data could go into investments that fail. We don't know it. 
They just up the premium.

And when you have a catastrophic illness or a long-term illness, it 
could bankrupt you. Look at Ed McMahon, Tonight Show host, along with 
Johnny Carson, for decades. And now he's on CNN on the Larry King Show, 
talking about his broken neck and his injuries, and now his Malibu home 
is in foreclosure.



That's an American of prominence who was worth at one time $100 
million. But a catastrophic illness could run you into bankruptcy. And 
that story is told many, many times.

I will not take the time now, Mr. Speaker, but these are actual 
people with actual stories. And we are the policymakers, and we're 
going to continue to tell their stories night after night until we, as 
a body, until we, as the Congress, can come together and set our 
priorities on what is really necessary to keep America strong. And it 
might take a new administration.

So we're going to lay the groundwork for the next President and 
Commander in Chief of these United States to choose prosperity, to 
choose health care, to choose education, to choose social services over 
profiteering by your best buddies in the oil industry. You can read 
between those lines. And we hope that the next President of the United 
States will set, as its higher goal, to keep America healthy and be 
sure that every single American and persons here can get that kind of 
health care. So together we can conquer.

We should not lose another person to cancer. We should not in this 
country because we should have done the kind of in-depth research and 
tests so that we could come up with various prescriptions and remedies 
to save the lives of so many worthy people.

Thank you so much, Mr. Speaker, for this time. We will be back again 
another night.