---
---

# AGRICULTURAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE AND WESTERN STATES EMERGENCY  UNFINISHED BUSINESS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `b9c1d23592845347aead72390a8afcae`
`Mr. OBEY — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 8 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, in the bill which the President vetoed last week, in 
addition to funding for the troops in Iraq, we provided funding for a 
number of other high-priority purposes. We provided additional funding 
above the President's request for veterans' health care, something 
which the President did not want. We added additional funding to defend 
the country against a potential epidemic from the pandemic flu virus 
that our scientists are concerned about. The President asked for that 
money 3 years ago, but this time around said he didn't want it in the 
bill. The President said he did not want to see the money that we put 
in the bill for homeland security and a variety of other programs.

It seemed to me the administration took special pleasure in also 
objecting to the fact that we had agricultural disaster funding in the 
bill and that we had the funding in the bill to respond to the court 
decision on western salmon and we also had funding in the bill to deal 
with Western school programs that had been allowed to lapse by the 
previous Congress and several other provisions like that. The President 
said that those programs didn't belong in this bill because they 
weren't emergencies.

Well, in fact, I think the President had it backwards because what 
the President seemed to suggest is that the only legitimate funding for 
an emergency appropriation would be for the war in Iraq. In fact, the 
war in Iraq should not be funded at all as an emergency appropriation. 
After all, it has been around for more than 4 years, despite the 
President's landing on that aircraft carrier. And the fact is that the 
President, in order to hide the full cost of the war, asked for that 
war to be funded in 11 different slices. Those funds should have been 
provided in regular appropriation bills, not in supplementals. So it is 
the President who has the usual practice figured out just backwards. We 
didn't object to dealing with the Iraqi problem, and we would 
appreciate it if he would not object to dealing with other legitimate 
emergency problems.

The President seemed to suggest, in his veto message, that we didn't 
have the courage to deal with the agriculture and other related issues 
alone, that we had to slip them in, so to speak, in the Iraq bill. And, 
frankly, that got my dander up. And so now that we are back in the 
second bill, I have insisted that when the House votes on this matter 
tonight that we vote on it separately to demonstrate to the President 
that there is support in both parties, I believe, for dealing with some 
of these issues, especially with the agriculture problem.

Now, I didn't declare 70 percent of the counties in this country to 
be disaster areas. The President did. The Congress has an obligation 
not to ignore those declarations and act accordingly, and that is what 
we are trying to do. So very simply, we are going to have these votes 
tonight, and I am glad that we are.

There are two items that are not in the bill that should be in the 
bill. One is spinach. When the President vetoed the bill, his 
administration made a lot of fun of the fact that we had funding for 
spinach in the bill. Well, there is no spinach in my district, but let 
me tell you why we had that funding. Nobody was laughing a year ago 
when people were deathly sick because they had consumed spinach that 
was contaminated with E. coli, and then the Federal Government went to 
spinach growers and asked that they take their products off the shelf 
voluntarily, and when they did that, that cost those spinach growers a 
lot of money. Now, I have heard a lot of conservatives and liberals 
alike in this House complain and cry and whine all over the floor when 
the government engages in an uncompensated taking from a private 
citizen. Well, if you tell an industry that they can't collect for 
their product after they have been asked by the government to take it 
off the market even though 99 percent of that spinach was perfectly 
safe, then what have you done? You have engaged in an uncompensated 
taking. Now, that may not bother many people in a city like Washington, 
D.C., where a lot of people look down their noses at anything rural, 
but the fact is that farmers are entitled and spinach growers are 
entitled to the same kind of consideration any other economic group 
would have in this country.

The second thing that isn't in here is funding for Great Lakes 
fishery problems. We had several Members of the minority party make fun 
of the bill 2 weeks ago because they claimed we had money in the bill 
for tropical fish. Well, I want to tell you what we had in the bill. 
The Federal Government discovered last year that fisheries in the Great 
Lakes, especially in Lake Michigan, that fish were being found with a 
disease called viral hemorrhagic septicemia. It does to fish what ebola 
does to human beings. It is a bloody problem. And that problem, if left 
unchecked, has the potential to destroy the entire Great Lakes 
fisheries. That is an 8 to $9 billion annual business. So what we tried 
to do was to simply recognize the plight of a few commercial fish 
growers who were told by the government they could not ship their 
product across State lines because it would endanger the entire 
fisheries, and so they complied. The irony was under the law if the 
fish produced by those farmers had been diseased, they could have 
collected from the government, but because those fish were healthy, 
they couldn't. So they were stuck in a catch-22 situation.

We tried to fund that, and we got laughed off the screen because the 
demogogues in this institution and demogogues on the other end of the 
avenue made fun of a problem that is a very serious environmental 
problem. We have taken that item out of the bill, too, simply because 
there is only so much bowl gravy that you can counter in a political 
debate. So we are left with the bare bones proposition that deals with 
legitimate problems faced by farmers and faced by Western States with 
respect to wildfires and the other problems funded in this bill.

So I am happy we finally are going to have an opportunity to vote on 
these items standing alone. I urge an ''aye'' vote.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.