---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `b9ce9e9adf897033c096751ca77346e6`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, I would like to associate myself with 
the comments of Senator McCain about what is going on on the ground in 
Iraq. I thought he did an excellent job of explaining that this new 
strategy is just what it is described as being--new. We are not sending 
more people to do the same old thing. It is a fundamentally different 
approach to how we handle the situation in Iraq.

The situation in Iraq is the result of not having enough forces on 
the ground in the early parts of the war. The security environment in 
Iraq got out of control. The terrorists seized an opportunity to divide 
the Iraqis by bombing the Samarra mosque, the third most holy site in 
the Shia region in Samarra. Ever since then, we have been in a conflict 
between Shias and Sunnis in Baghdad.

Anbar has always been about Sunni insurgents trying to topple this 
infant


democracy, and it has been the place where al-Qaida has been hiding.

The progress is that the Sunni insurgency--the tribal chiefs are 
beginning to understand that their lives are better with the unified 
Iraq; that if they can share in the oil revenues of the country, future 
Sunni generations will be benefited. I think Shias are beginning to 
understand that to reject Al-Sadr--his view of Iraq becoming a Shia 
theocracy is not going to be accepted by people in the neighborhood and 
other folks living in Iraq. So I think every group is beginning to 
understand that through political reconciliation, they have a better, 
brighter future. The way to get political reconciliation is to control 
the violence. That is why we need more troops, more troops to hold 
areas previously cleared, to buy time for political reconciliation and 
economic progress, and the early indications are that it is working.

Now, what is not working. The Congress is not working. I think the 
Congress is about to make history in all of the wrong ways. Do we 
really want to be the first Congress--maybe ever in the history of the 
country, that I am aware of--that would, by congressional enactment, 
set a hard date to withdraw from a war in Iraq with which our vital 
national security interests as Americans are intertwined? What are the 
consequences of leaving in March or any other date in 2008? What 
happens when we leave? No one who is offering these amendments has 
really thought that through.

I do believe that a failed State in Iraq jeopardizes our national 
security interests for decades, is a loss in the war on terror, is an 
empowering event for extremists, a death blow to moderation, and that 
we need to see this through by changing course, and this is exactly 
what we are doing.

Setting a timeline for withdrawal is saying you have no confidence in 
General Petraeus to execute the plan we sent him to execute. It is 
saying we have no confidence in our military to deliver, because the 
day you set that date, you are going to freeze political 
reconciliation. People are not going to do deals the same way when they 
know America is going to leave at a certain date because what happens 
when America leaves will be thought of in terms of the consequences of 
a particular deal.

If we leave and Iraq is in chaos, the police and the army are unable 
to deal with the wolves of terrorism, then they are overwhelmed, the 
country breaks apart, and the regional consequences and the 
consequences to the world are monumental, in my opinion.

The first rule of medicine is to do no harm. It should be the first 
rule of politics. And we have done harm with our Iraqi strategy. We 
have assumed the best and never planned for the worst.

Whatever mistakes the Bush team has made, and there are many, the 
Congress is about to make the greatest mistake of all; that is, to tell 
the enemy what they have to do to get us out of Iraq on their terms, 
not ours. It is a death blow to moderation. Who in the Mideast will try 
to come together knowing that the United States cannot be counted on? 
What effect would it have on the worldwide terrorist networks if they 
believe, through their acts of violence and barbaric behavior, that 
America will leave?

We cannot let suicide bombers determine the fate of the 21st century. 
We cannot let people who will blow up children in a car determine the 
fate of Iraq. We cannot let that happen. We are bigger than that. We 
are better than that. I believe passionately, after five visits, with 
one more to come, that the people in Iraq want more. They are dying for 
their own freedom. I would leave tomorrow if I thought the Iraqi people 
were incapable of solving their problems. I do believe the majority of 
Shias, Sunnis, and Kurds want the same thing that every Member of this 
body wants for their family--a better life. They have looked into the 
abyss, and they are making the changes they need to make.

If we restrict funding, if we restrict our military commanders' 
ability to go after the enemy in all of its forms, we are doing them a 
disservice. If you set a hard deadline for withdrawal, you have doomed 
us as a nation to lose in Iraq. What good would it be for one person to 
be maimed or to die waiting on that day to come? If you pick March 
2008, what do you tell a family member of the U.S. military why their 
loved one died or was harmed, knowing that the date killed our efforts 
to be successful? This is irresponsible. This does everything wrong 
that the Congress could do at a time when things could get better.

I cannot promise you success. But I know our last best chance lies 
with General Petraeus. Our last best chance lies with a reinforcement 
of a country and a military that needs it. The military needs this 
money. They deserve this money without strings attached. They deserve a 
chance to turn Iraq around to make us free.

The House may be satisfied with this vote on the supplemental, and 
they may think this is a victory for the Democratic leadership in the 
House. I think this is a shameful chapter in the history of the House. 
These votes to pass this bill were literally bought. There is money in 
this bill, the supplemental bill, that has nothing to do with the 
military, nothing to do with Iraq, and there was money being spent to 
buy votes to make sure we drive ourselves out of Iraq without 
consequence and the thought of what happens.

If we do not pass a supplemental soon, Secretary Gates has laid out 
what happens in April, May, and June to our military. Because of time 
limitations, I will not go into detail on what happens to the military, 
but I can tell you with certainty that the military needs this money 
for ongoing operations, and every month and week that goes by without 
this money going into the Department of Defense, major decisions have 
to be made that compromise troop safety, that hurt the quality of life 
of families, and keep this surge from being successful.

If your goal is to end this war because you think we have lost, 
choose an honorable path. The honorable path would be to come to this 
floor, offer an amendment to stop funding now and get out of Iraq as 
soon as possible. A date certain a year from now, a year and a half 
from now, whatever date you pick, it ensures we lose, and it ensures 
that the people who are left there to fight until that day comes get 
injured and die in vain.

This is the wrong way to run a war. This is the wrong way to fight 
terrorism.

Three weeks ago, I was at Guantanamo Bay listening to Shaikh 
Mohammed, the mastermind of 9/11, explaining why he was at war with us. 
He will be at war with us until his last breath. There are people like 
him in Iraq measuring us as a nation. Please do not send them the wrong 
signal. Fund our troops without condition. Stand behind General 
Petraeus because he deserves our support.

We sent him off to do a mission. Give him the resources to do it, and 
in time we will figure this out. This is not an open-ended commitment. 
I know as well as everybody else that we are not going to be in Iraq 
forever. But we need to be in Iraq on terms that will empower moderates 
and deflate extremists. I believe the Iraqi political leadership, given 
the breathing space, will have the ability, with our support, to 
reconcile their country because it is in their best interests. 
Literally thousands of Iraqis have died for their own freedom. What 
more can we ask of someone. Political reconciliation is hard. It took 
us 13 years to write our Constitution. We were at civil war among 
ourselves. Democracy is hard, but it is worth fighting for.















 Amendment No. 643
