---
---

# FIRST LIEUTENANT NOAH HARRIS ELLIJAY POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `b9d4dbd49ae97b5fcbbf49871d69a8f1`
`Mr. DEAL of Georgia — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. DEAL of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I thank Mr. Duncan for yielding 
the time to me. And I thank Mr. Towns for the very kind words that he 
has spoken on behalf of this outstanding young man.

And I do rise today to honor the memory of First Lieutenant Noah 
Harris by dedicating the United States Post Office located in Ellijay, 
Georgia, and naming it the ''First Lieutenant Noah Harris Ellijay Post 
Office.''

As Mr. Towns has indicated, Lieutenant Harris was killed at the age 
of 23, serving in Buritz, Iraq, and was returning from a successful 
mission when his Humvee was hit by two rocket-propelled grenades.

Many times we talk about individuals that we don't know. Tonight, I 
talk about a young man I did know. Noah Harris served as an intern in 
my office in the summer of 2002. He was a star athlete at Gilmer County 
High School, captain of his football team, captain of the wrestling 
team, State wrestling champion, and a star scholar.

When he graduated from high school, he went to the University of 
Georgia and he joined the football cheerleading squad. Now, at first 
you would think, as did his captain in Iraq, that if you're a 
cheerleader, you're not physically fit. Of course, if you watched 
college cheerleaders, you know when they lift somebody over their head 
and hold them, they are physically fit, as was Noah. And he became the 
captain of that cheerleading squad.

He was a student at the University of Georgia on September 11 of 
2001. And when our country was attacked on that day, he made the 
decision that he wanted to join the ROTC unit and become an Army 
officer. The story goes that he went over to the ROTC Department and he 
said, I'd like to join the ROTC. And he was asked, well, what class 
level are you in? And he said, I'm a senior. And the response was, 
Well, you've just waited too late. You can't join the ROTC in your 
senior year. And he said, Is there no way that that can happen? And 
they said, Well, you would have to be an outstanding scholar and you 
would have to be an outstanding athlete in order to be able to put all 
the things together here in your senior year. It's told that Noah 
Harris sort of smiled and said, Well, I am a Presidential scholar, 
attending the University of Georgia on a Presidential scholar 
scholarship. And I am the captain of the football cheerleading squad. 
And needless to say, he met all of those requirements, he was 
commissioned, and he served our country in Iraq.



While he was serving in Iraq, he e-mailed me and he said this, ''Each 
day I patrol the street and stop and talk to the people. They are 
thankful that we're here and for what we are doing. Though the process 
is slow, each day, the Iraqi police and the Iraqi army are becoming 
better able to protect and defend the citizens of Iraq. Through the 
efforts and perseverance of both the United States and Iraq, peace will 
prevail. Please pass on my thanks to your staff and the rest of the 
individuals in Washington that support the cause of freedom for our 
Nation and the world.''

I attended Noah Harris' funeral, one of the saddest and yet at the 
same time one of the greatest celebrations that I have ever attended. 
His life is a reminder that it really doesn't matter how long you live, 
it's how you live. Noah Harris is a role model for young people who 
follow behind him. He is an inspiration for all of us who knew him and 
for those who will learn about him as the story of his life has now 
been compiled in a book put together by his parents, Lucy and Rick 
Harris, and contains the remembrances of people who knew Noah Harris. 
He will also have a continuing legacy of hope, dedication and courage. 
A scholarship has been founded at the University of Georgia in his 
memory, and it will continue his tradition.

Madam Speaker, First Lieutenant Noah Harris was indeed a true 
American hero. I am proud today to rise and pay attribute to him and to 
have the honor of joining with the constituents from the community in 
which he grew up in naming the local post office the First Lieutenant 
Noah Harris Ellijay Post Office.

Madam Speaker, I include for the Record a copy of a letter from Mr. 
Jerry Farist, the chairman of the Gilmer County Board of Commissioners, 
supporting that this post office be named in honor of First Lieutenant 
Noah Harris.

I appreciate the time, and I think indeed these are the kind of 
moments that symbolize what makes our country great.























Gilmer County Board of


























Commissioners,
























 September 12, 2008.


 Re Request to name the Ellijay Post Office after 1st LT. Noah 




 Harris.



 Ms. Gail Musselwhite,


 Office of Congressman Nathan Deal,


 P.O. Box 1015, Gainsville, GA.



 To Whom It May Concern: As Chairman of the Gilmer County 


 Board of Commissioners I speak for my fellow commissioners 


 and the citizens of Gilmer County by saying that we take 


 great pride in our hometown boy, LT. Noah Harris. He paid the 


 ultimate price for his patriotism and we sincerely thank him 


 for his service.



 Per the request to rename the Ellijay Post Office, ''1st 


 LT. Noah Harris United States Post Office'', the Gilmer 


 County Board of Commissioners would like to go on record as 


 having no objection to this action. If further information is 


 necessary please feel free to contact me.





 Sincerely,





















 Jerry Farist, Chairman,



















Gilmer County Commissioners.
