---
---

# FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `b9e1aa72fac50efd97374de349dfbc36`
`Mrs. BOXER — 14 December 2010`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Madam President, these heroes, these Americans have 
sacrificed and given it all for this Nation. I am humbled by their 
service. I am humbled by the service of their families, because this is 
a family commitment. I am so proud, along with Senator Burr, to be 
cochair of the Military Family Caucus. I pledge to continue what I can 
do to make sure that our commitment to our military families is 
constant and that we are fulfilling our role to make sure they get 
treated with honor and respect and that we lessen their hardships. We 
cannot take away the pain of their loss.

I also want to say I am working in every way I can to end this war in 
Afghanistan. I support bringing the troops home in 2011. There is some 
talk it might be extended another year. I don't support that. As 
someone who voted to go after Osama bin Laden and the Taliban and go 
into Afghanistan, we lost a lot of years because President George W. 
Bush turned and focused his attention on the Iraq war, a war I did not 
support because I didn't think it was based on truth. It turned out 
that it wasn't. History will speak to that. We have been in Afghanistan 
a long time and they are going to have to stand up and defend their own 
country, as all nations have to do to defend themselves. We have given 
so much, and today 52 more California-connected servicemembers since 
August 5--that is an ongoing sacrifice.

We heard yesterday about a tragic explosion against NATO forces there 
on a headquarters in southern Afghanistan, where we lost six. I support 
that withdrawal and doing it in a way that makes sense. We are not 
going to do it in 1 day, or 6 months, but we should start it.












 Remembering Richard Holbrooke


Connected to that, the second issue I wanted to bring up is the 
passing of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke--someone I considered to be a 
friend, adviser, a brilliant mind, a warm personality, a man who lived 
for his work and his family. It is so ironic, in a sense. I saw him 
twice last week because he and his wife had gone to the Kennedy Center 
awards. He seemed fine, so engaged, and so well. It was a shock to read 
about what happened.

I send my love to his family, his wife, and his children. He will be 
missed so much, because he had a very unique approach to diplomacy. 
There was a love of what he did that you can't create. When you talked 
to him, he engaged you because of his deep commitment and love of his 
work, and his understanding that diplomacy is the answer, not war, and 
that you had to be tough. As he pointed out, you had to meet with 
people you would not want to be in a room with. But he had to do that 
as he negotiated the end of the war in Bosnia.

I will miss him both personally and certainly as a member of the 
Foreign Relations Committee with the occupant of the Chair.














 Don't Ask, Don't Tell


I want to talk about a couple of other issues, to express my 
disappointment that because of an artificial line laid down in the sand 
by our colleagues on the other side, they would not vote on a civil 
rights matter to end don't ask, don't tell, which is a policy that 
makes our Nation weaker, not stronger. It is a policy that brings pain 
to so many of our fellow Americans. They have to keep a secret as to 
who they are and how they live their life, and that runs counter to 
what this country is all about.


The thing is, when you are in the military and you are side by side 
and you are in trouble, whether you are gay or straight has nothing to 
do with the mission you are facing. There is a very strict code of 
conduct in the military that says whoever you are, you cannot abuse 
your rights and privileges, whether it is about sexual harassment or 
anything else. That is very clear. So we already have a code of conduct 
that can apply to everyone.

I was proud that in the survey that was taken, our military said they 
didn't think it would harm us in terms of our ability to have a strong 
defense. Good for them. I read into the Record a number of cases of 
heroes who have been run out of the military because of their sexual 
orientation--heroes. A couple of them have been reinstated. The courts 
are going to do away with don't ask, don't tell. So I would 
rhetorically ask my colleagues: Why on Earth would we leave this to the 
courts when we could have the pride in standing for civil rights? It is 
unfortunate.

Some on the other side have flip-flopped on this issue and said: Oh, 
well, when the military leaders say it is OK, I will be there. But now 
they are not. They set the bar every day at a different height. It is 
wrong and we should get this done. There was an excuse that, well, 
let's do the tax cut first. OK, we did the tax cut. So I am hoping they 
will let us go to this and vote on this so we can be proud as Americans 
here, across party lines, that we can put aside partisan differences 
when it comes to civil rights.

I was watching a TV special on the civil rights law that passed in 
1964, and the beautiful part of it was the coming together of the 
parties, at the end of the day, on an issue that was so right for this 
country. I hope we can do this again. I just hope we can do this again. 
If not, I say to the courts: Do the right thing. You are doing it, but 
keep it up, because we are not any stronger as a Nation, we are weaker, 
when incredibly talented, dedicated, patriotic Americans are turned 
away for absolutely no reason.

















 DREAM Act


I wished to talk about that as well as the DREAM Act--another area 
where this country is made stronger. This act focuses on a child who 
may have been brought here by their parents. Their parents broke the 
law, brought a child here, say, at 3 or 4 months, and the child grows 
up and doesn't even know they do not have their papers until they get 
to be 18 years old. This is their country. They love their country. A 
lot of them are presidents of their student body. Since when do we pin 
the crimes of the parents on a child? We don't do that here. Again, 
what are we gaining? We are losing.

So the DREAM Act, which started off with huge bipartisan support, 
suddenly has gotten to the place where don't ask, don't tell has 
gotten, where we are moving away from justice. Everybody has their 
reason--oh, it can't be part of the military bill. If it is not part of 
the military bill, they say: Why isn't it part of the military bill? It 
seems to be a moving bar.

I read about this big meeting called ''No Labels,'' where people got 
together and said we are tired of the two parties not working together. 
It was sort of interesting because it was on the day when the two 
parties did work together and we got over 80 votes for a tax bill. But 
be that as it may, let's set that aside, here are two issues that have 
nothing to do with partisan politics because they are good for the 
country--they help our young people and they make sure people can serve 
in the military if they are qualified and their sexual orientation 
essentially has nothing to do with it. We have a chance to come 
together for the good of the country on these things.

















9/11 Heroes


I still hold out hope that we can do that, and we can also take care 
of those heroes of 9/11 who went to that toxic pile in New York and 
looked for the survivors and then looked for remains and breathed in 
that toxic air, which in those days the EPA said was safe. Well, it 
wasn't safe, and now they are sick. Yet we can't seem to get the votes 
to help them. But I don't give up. I think we can do this. So let's 
work together on all these things.
















 Transportation


Another area where we have been able to work together in the past--
and where I hope we will continue to work together--is the 
Transportation bill. We usually enact our highway trust fund programs 
for about 4, 5 or 6 years at a time. The last time we extended it for 1 
year, and now the extension is ending. So we need to extend again the 
existing transportation authorization. I am optimistic on this one 
because in the House it didn't seem controversial. They added it to the 
continuing resolution and extended it to the end of fiscal year 2011. 
September 30 is the date.

It is important to note that 900,000 jobs nationwide depend on this 
highway trust fund and the reauthorization of it and all those 
programs--with 85,000 jobs in my home State of California. It is very 
important we do this work, whether it is through an omnibus budget or 
through the continuing resolution, however it ends up.



This is an area again where the political parties have come together. 
My ranking member, Jim Inhofe, and I have been working very closely on 
this and we support this extension. It has the support of the members 
of the Americans for Transportation Mobility Coalition--and I will name 
some of them: The American Public Transportation Association, the 
American Road and Transportation Builders, the Associated Equipment 
Distributors, the Associated General Contractors, the Society of Civil 
Engineers, the International Union of Operating Engineers, Laborers 
International, the National Asphalt Paving Association, National Stone, 
Sand & Gravel, the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners, and 
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

Listen, that is quite a group. When you have unions and you have the 
employers and you have the U.S. Chamber of Commerce--which is negative 
on so many things, unfortunately, but positive on this--that is a good 
matchup.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the 
Record the letter from the Americans for Transportation Mobility.