---
---

# THE STATE OF OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
## `b9e4310939adb4dfe6f1c33c38bfb985`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Before I yield to my friend from Iowa, I would 
just like to kind of follow up what the gentleman from Colorado said.

You know, sometimes I think we are unaware as a people--and certainly 
this administration seems oblivious--to how serious a nuclear Iran, 
what a serious danger to the peace of the entire human family that 
would represent.

But just for a moment, let's consider that for a moment. You know, 
the Ahmadinejad government, the government of the mullahs and 
Ahmadinejad there, have, through their very brazen, open statements, 
have condemned Israel, have condemned the United States and threatened 
both of our countries in very specific terms, wanting to see Israel 
wiped off the map and the United States be ended as a world power and 
to see us completely brought to our knees.

I mean, it's hard to even, to repeat some of the things that this 
Iranian administration has said about America. And it's very clear what 
their intent is, and there are two elements to every threat, Mr. 
Speaker, when it comes to national security. One is the intent of a 
potential enemy and the second one is the capacity of that enemy to 
carry through with their threats.

And if we have not understood by now the intent of jihad, the intent 
of state sponsors of terrorism like Iran, then we are not listening 
very well, Mr. Speaker. The intent is clear. Iran would see America 
destroyed tomorrow if they could. Now, not the Iranian people, but the 
Iranian Government, as it stands now, would see America in ashes if 
they could.


So the idea of allowing them to gain nuclear capability seems to be 
just astonishing beyond words to me, Mr. Speaker. I mean, this 
administration seems to have embraced some sort of a surreptitious 
policy of allowing Iran to gain nuclear weapons and then pursuing the 
traditional idea of containment, like we have in other situations with 
the Soviet Union.

But that won't work with a jihadist government. Because when we were 
dealing with the Soviet Union, we put our security, in a sense, in 
their sanity. We knew that they wanted to survive and we had the 
capability to respond in such an overwhelming way that they were 
deterred from attacking America. But when it comes to the jihadist 
mindset, Mr. Speaker, that is no longer a strategy that can be 
embraced.

Let me just say, Mr. Speaker, if Iran gains a nuclear capability, if 
they gain nuclear weapons, this world will step into the shadow of 
nuclear terrorism. Terrorists will have these weapons and, Mr. Speaker, 
I can't express to you the danger that that will represent and the 
change that it will represent to all of us in the free world and, 
really, throughout the planet.

Because Iran has shown themselves willing to make some of the most 
deadly weapons that we face in Iraq and blowing up our soldiers with 
their explosively formed penetrators. They pay money to see some of the 
Taliban kill American soldiers in Afghanistan. They have demonstrated 
their intent very clearly, and this administration seems willing to 
allow them to have the capacity to carry out that intent.

Mr. Speaker, let me just, while I am walking by the neighborhood, 
remind this administration that Iran has done military exercises that 
appear to every reasonable military analyst to be preparation for an 
EMP attack against this country or some other enemy that they might 
have.

Mr. Speaker, I think that this administration seems woefully 
unprepared or even unaware of how serious an electromagnetic pulse or a 
high altitude nuclear blast to create an electromagnetic pulse could be 
to this country. Mr. Speaker, if Iran gains a nuclear capability it 
will give them the asymmetric capability to, in fact, launch an EMP 
attack against this country, and that could cripple our infrastructure. 
It could cause an almost inarticulable damage to this country.

The EMP Commission says a major EMP attack on this country could be 
the one thing that could defeat the U.S. military. It could see more 
than 60 percent of the population of the United States unsustainable. I 
don't know how you wrap your mind around a number like that.

But, yet, that is the path that we are on with this administration 
continuing to allow Iran to gain nuclear weapons. And I would just call 
upon the Senate, Mr. Speaker, tonight on this floor, to pass the grid 
bill that we passed out of this body some time ago to begin to protect 
our electric infrastructure from either geomagnetic storms or from a 
high altitude electromagnetic pulse from a nuclear weapon that could be 
launched against us like Iran.

This administration has paid no attention to that, and yet it 
represents a very real, very credible threat against the United States, 
and it is the ideal asymmetric weapon for terrorists, and they know it. 
We have discovered their writings. They understand that and yet we 
stand by, and this administration embraces the notion that we can allow 
a jihadist, terrorist state like Iran to gain the world's most 
dangerous weapons and to be able to potentially launch against this 
country an attack that could be absolutely devastating to our 
civilization.

I just continue to be astonished that this administration has 
forsaken its number one constitutional duty in making sure that the 
protection of the citizens of this country and the national security of 
this country are job one.



And I really don't know what to add to that except maybe to ask my 
friend from Ohio--from Iowa--I know you are not from Ohio--to comment.

Mr. KING from Iowa. Well, I thank the gentleman from Arizona. And I 
loved Ohio until Ohio State beat the Hawkeyes a week and a half ago, 
but I'm holding my judgment until next year when we have some 
reconciliation meeting that takes place.

I'm very interested in the comment that you have made, the shadow of 
nuclear terrorism, that comment. When we think about this as Americans, 
watching this world, this Western civilization world falling under the 
shadow of nuclear terrorism, if we think worrying about some jet 
airliners being flown into the Twin Towers or into the Pentagon just 
down the road a little ways or off into the field in Pennsylvania, what 
that did to this country, how it shook up this country, how it 
immobilized our financial markets and our daily lives, right down to 
football games and weddings were brought to an immediate halt, even 
though it was more than 1,000 miles away, nearly 2,000 miles away to 
get to the other side of the continent, they stopped their football 
games there, too. They stopped their weddings there, too. And I suppose 
they stopped some funerals for a while. That's how much it devastated 
this country. And I thought that we really should have looked at those 
crises on September 11, 2001 and said it's not going to break our 
stride. We're going to keep our pace. We're going to go forward, and 
we're going to live, and we're going to live while we adapt to the new 
threat that has come upon us.

But this new threat that's out there now that hangs over our head, 
the shadow of nuclear terrorism that hangs over our head out of North 
Korea, who is completely belligerent today, and out of Iran as well.

And I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, that I wasn't very happy with the 
job that was done by then-Commander in Chief Bill Clinton on each of 
these issues but primarily with Korea. I thought that he was too soft, 
too tepid, not bold enough, and I looked through that and I thought 
North Korea will march through his path and they'll become a nuclear 
power and nothing is going to stop them because we are not bold, we're 
not strong enough, and we didn't show the resolve necessary to cause 
them to back up and back off, North Korea. Also true with Iran.

And as I watched President Bush, Bush 43, come into office, I was 
hopeful there would be a bolder position with regard to our posture 
towards North Korea and towards Iran. And I can remember serving here 
in this Congress through some of those years. And I watched how the 
political handcuffs were put on George W. Bush in such a way that he 
didn't have the political support to use the bold actions that I 
believe might have been necessary then to avert the nuclear power that 
has materialized in North Korea nor the impending nuclear power that 
appears


to be materializing in Iran. I don't think that George Bush was able to 
utilize those tools. I don't know if he had the will. I believe he did. 
I believe he had the judgment, but I don't think he had the political 
tools because this Congress was so lined up against George Bush, there 
were so many debates that emerged from over on this side of the aisle 
that attacked the President, the Commander in Chief, and undermined our 
military when they were in the field where lives were being sacrificed 
for our liberty, 44 votes forced by this Speaker of the House that were 
designed to unfund, underfund or undermine our troops. And all of that 
was designed to expand their political power and diminish the power of 
the Commander in Chief.

While that was going on, North Korea was furiously building a nuclear 
capability, Iran was building a nuclear capability, and one thing that 
did happen very good, and many of them did happen good under George 
Bush, was he began the process to establish the missiles in Poland and 
the radar in Czechoslovakia and he had it set up to go to protect 
Western Europe and eventually America from missiles coming out of Iran, 
and what happened? We elected a new President, one who I don't think 
has an understanding of this geopolitical chess game that's going on 
with our national security and the destiny of all humanity, who did 
what? Pulled the missiles out of Poland, the radar out of 
Czechoslovakia, and the headlines in the Warsaw paper said 
''betrayed.'' Betrayed. And I believe that that was the largest and 
most colossal foreign policy mistake made by the Obama administration 
that emboldened not just Iran to accelerate their nuclear endeavors but 
emboldened North Korea as well to go to the point of shelling the 
island in South Korea because they know or they believe, and I actually 
think they know, this President doesn't have the resolve to do the 
confrontation necessary to protect our liberty.

So we live now under the shadow of a nuclear terrorism that is 
emerging.

And I would just ask this question, does this Nation have the 
capability and the will to shut off that capability, that building 
capability in Iran and in North Korea? If we do, we have a strong 
position to negotiate from. If we do not, we need to achieve that 
ability and negotiate from a strong position.


There is more I would say, but I yield back to the gentleman the 
Arizona.