---
---

# RECOGNIZING 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF RADIO FREE EUROPE/RADIO LIBERTY
## `ba03808b164c5ec32110cf2306d81177`
`Mr. BERMAN — 3 November 2009`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 641, and 
I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution celebrates 60 years of broadcasting 
history and the continuing mission of an effective instrument of public 
diplomacy.

Radio Free Europe was established in 1949 by the National Committee 
for a Free Europe, an anticommunist organization, and made its first 
broadcast to what was then Czechoslovakia on July 4 of the next year.

From its start, the organization approached the Cold War as a war of 
ideas, pushing back on propaganda that was being spread by autocratic 
governments behind the Iron Curtain. As it grew and merged with Radio 
Liberty to reach more people, its purpose became all the more urgent as 
its broadcasts were banned and Communist authorities used jamming 
techniques to keep their citizens from tuning in.

In fact, those very authorities were said to have relied upon secret 
transcripts of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty programs so they could 
have better information about what was happening in their own countries 
than their own national media could provide.

After the Cold War ended, many paid tribute to the role that the 
American radio programs had played. Nobel Laureate and former Polish 
President Lech Walesa, who recalled listening to RFE/RL's broadcasts in 
secret, said their influence ''cannot even be described,'' asking, 
''Would there be an Earth without the Sun?''

Today, RFE/RL is located in the very country to which it once beamed 
its first broadcast, now known as the Czech Republic. From its Prague 
headquarters, the organization serves as a surrogate broadcaster to 
places where uncensored or reliable information is hard to come by, 
where independent media are banned or not yet fully established.

Using AM, FM, shortwave, and satellite radio, as well as the Internet 
and newer social media tools, RFE/RL reaches an estimated 30 million 
people in Eastern Europe, Russia, the Caucasus, the Middle East, and 
Central and Southwest Asia.

Its programs in Farsi, under the banner of Radio Farda, are widely 
followed in Iran. Radio Azadi provides unbiased reporting of current 
events in Afghanistan. And next year, RFE/RL will begin Pashto-language 
broadcasts to the troubled Afghanistan-Pakistan border region, 
including the Swat Valley.

Mr. Speaker, as this resolution notes, ''RFE/RL has a proven history 
of promoting freedom and liberty in oppressive and autocratic regimes 
through news broadcasts based upon the principle that the first 
requirement of a democracy is a well-informed citizenry.''

H. Res. 641 congratulates the organization on six decades of helping 
to keep the spark of freedom alive in some of history's darkest hours 
and salutes the men and women of RFE/RL for their continuing commitment 
to the free flow of information.

I commend the author of this resolution, the ranking member of the 
House Foreign Affairs Committee, Ms. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, and encourage 
its support.

I reserve the balance of my time.