# THIRTY-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `ba2145d8d6d5020e87282471c5d99ccf`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I appreciate that.

And $3.6 billion from the resolution, continuation resolution from 
last year, for veterans' spending. That increase is government 
spending. Because we have to fund health care for veterans because it 
was the government that sent the veterans out.

Now, I am not saying that every dollar the government spends is good, 
but I remember last year under the Republican budget and the year 
before under the Republican budget passed by a Republican House and 
passed by a Republican Senate, signed by a Republican White House, that 
gave $14-15 billion in subsidies to the oil subsidies, that was 
government spending; and our friends on the other side of the aisle 
weren't very critical when public tax dollars were going to corporate 
welfare for the oil companies when they were making the greatest 
profits they have ever made. That is government spending.

What we are doing, not raising taxes, the same revenues as the 
President's budget had, we are going to reprioritize that money and we 
are going to take that money and spend it on our veterans and invest it 
in education and increase the Pell Grant almost $4,600. We are going to 
take that money and cover thousands and thousands and thousands more 
kids under the SCHIP program, the State Children Health Insurance 
Program. That is the difference between these two budgets.

When the President says he is going to veto this supplemental bill 
that is going to get us out of Iraq, you know what else he is vetoing, 
$1.7 billion increased over the President's recommendation for 
veterans' health care. That is in the supplemental bill that he says he 
is going to veto.

Also, $1.7 billion above the President's request for defense health 
care for our soldiers. The President says he is going to veto that.

There is $500 million for post-traumatic stress disorder for soldiers 
coming back. The President says he is going to veto that.

There is $500 million in there for brain injuries; and we have both 
been to Walter Reed visiting the soldiers with the level of brain 
injuries that we have never seen in combat. So $500 million, the 
President says he is going to veto that.

Almost a billion dollars in the supplemental for children's health 
insurance, and the President says he is going to veto that. That is 
what the President is saying he is going to veto.

We hear a lot about government spending, and we hear a lot about the 
kids. You can't send these kids off to war and, in many instances, 
adults off to war, and then when they come back your argument is we 
don't want government to spend money. That doesn't cut it.