---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `ba2ebd17e8cb22efcc084813a63ae59c`
`Mr. ADERHOLT — 17 December 2009`

---


Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information 
regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 3326--the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2010.

Request as named in the report: Electrically Charged Mesh Defense Net 
Troop Protection System



Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Victory Solutions, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4900 Corporate Drive, Suite A, 
Huntsville, AL 35805.

Description of Request: $7,500,000. The funding would be used for 
''D-NET'' a Defense Net Troop Protection System designed to intercept 
and negate the serious insurgent and terrorist threat tactics employing 
Rocket Propelled Grenades (RPG), mortars, and small rocket munitions 
encountered by U.S. Combat Forces. This product could help save 
warfighters' lives in hostile territories such as Afghanistan and Iraq 
through an innovative and low-cost system of defending vehicles against 
enemy attacks by further testing and prototype development of a system 
which has passed all tests so far and gotten favorable government 
program manager review, and which was developed with input from troops 
in the field. The spending plan for this Phase II of the program, to 
total $7,500,000, is: Prototype Production and Field Test & Evaluation 
Program for integration and operational development. Further develop 
the D-Net technology based on Phase I R&D Tests to a Technology 
Readiness Level (TRL) worthy of deploying a limited quantity of ''Field 
Prototypes'' to Theatre for field and operations test and evaluation.

FY2010 Task A: D-Net ''Field Prototypes'' ($3.5M). Deliver to Army 
Logistics: 100 ''Field Prototypes'' of the D-Net Static Troop 
Protection System for Theatre Deployment on military asset vehicle for 
field testing (Procurement of Prototypes delivered to Military. 
Develop, Build, Assemble, Kit Packaging within military requirements 
like HAZMAT etc, Deliver and Ship to War Zone to fill purchase for 
Field Test Program) ($3.5M, or $35K/unit).

Task B: Field Test Program, data collection and refinement ($1.075M). 
Send science and engineering teams to Theatre for collection of field 
data from Field Prototypes deployed (Data collection material $125K, 
OCONUS Labor $425K), interact with operating community for feedback, 
return to lab and refine the technology for better performance and 
utility (Re-engineer labor $225K). Requires OCONUS travel ($300K).

Task C: Threat Characterization ($350K). Analyze and Perform trade 
Studies on Threat variants commonly engaged in Theatre scenarios. 
Engineering and analysis labor ($350K).

Task D: Net Optimization & Continued R&D ($1.3M); Range Test Net 
Materials ($250K); Government Provided Range Test Facilities & 
Government Provided Threats for Tests ($500K); Parametric Studies/ 
Validation Labor/ Salaries Engineering ($250K) and Manufacturing labor 
($250K), Travel ($50K).

Task E: Continue Launcher Development ($870K). Ground and Aerial 
Launcher Design and Development R&D and Fabrication Material ($320K); 
Testing ($150K); Labor for Engineering, Integration and Manufacturing 
for Platform Depot Requirements ($400K).

Task F: Integration to Systems & Platforms ($405K). Design and 
Integration Trade Studies, COTS Sensor Integration Analysis and Labor 
($250K); Material ($75K), Travel to Platform Project Offices ($80K).

Request as named in the report: Marine Corps MK 1077 Flatracks

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: SUMMA Technology, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: headquartered at 140 Sparkman Drive, 
Huntsville, AL 35805. The manufacturing facility is in Cullman, 
Alabama.

Description of Request: $3,000,000. The funding would be used for the 
MK1077 Flatrack. This is a revolutionary material handling system that 
provides the Marines with expedited logistical support while achieving 
significant manpower and equipment reductions. These racks and the 
containers they work with can be used to transport ammunition or other 
supplies in and out of areas quickly, thus greatly reducing the 
warfighter's exposure to danger. This is a continuation of a multi-year 
procurement program, and the recipient company has a proven record of 
meeting the strict, structural requirements for this item. The USMC has 
a requirement for 3,500 MK1077 Flatrack units of which 1,000 units have 
been acquired to date. $3,000,000 will provide approximately 347 
additional units, bringing the inventory up to 1,347.

Request as named in the report: Waterside Wide Area Tactical Coverage 
and Homing

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Miltec Corporation

Address of Requesting Entity: Miltec Corporation, located at 21232 
Hwy 431, Guntersville, AL 35976

Description of Request: $4,000,000. The funding would be used for 
development and integration of systems for the final test and 
demonstration of the WaterWATCH affordable underwater monitoring 
capability. Most waterfront facilities are unprotected due to cost 
considerations. Finalization of this product would make available a 
security system which installations at military bases and other 
critical infrastructure locations (such as nuclear power plants near 
waterways) could afford. WaterWATCH integrates many currently available 
components through the development of new software and the testing of 
these systems. Approximately $60,000 would be needed for travel, 
approximately $150,000 for hardware, and the rest for labor (software 
development and testing).

Request as named in the report: Protective Self-Decontaminating 
Surfaces

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Wide

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Ventana Research Corp. (VRC) & 
Kappler, Inc., and Kappler, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: VRC at 2702 South 4th Avenue, South 
Tucson, AZ 85713-4816; and Kappler at 115 Grimes Drive, Guntersville, 
AL 35976-9364

Description of Request: $2,000,000. The funding would be used for 
Prototype field validation tests of VRC-Kappler Chemical Biohazard 
Protective systems, lab tests of bacterial infections, diseases and 
contaminated human remains pouches (CHRPs); to field and live test 
nerve gas and radiological agents (in order to design the suit to 
withstand such an attack by a hostile nation). Present decontamination 
processes are labor intensive and require lengthy downtimes. Field-
tested prototypes of this fabric demonstrate cost-effective Chemical 
Biohazard protection for military personnel and civilian populations. 
Applications could be military, for homeland security, or for dangerous 
medical and rescue operations. The spending plan is Personnel: 
$620,000; Materials: $80,000; Equipment: $120,000; travel: $25,000; 
Govt Agency partnerships: Oversight and testing work: DTRA/CBT: 
$90,000; AFRL/Tyndall AFB: $250,000; USA NSRDEC: $90,000; 
Preproduction, Live Agents Tests, $825,000

Request as named in the report: Scenario Generation for IAMD 
Evaluation (SGIE)

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: QinetiQ North America Systems 
Engineering Group

Address of Requesting Entity: AMSRD-AMR-BA Bldg. 6263, Redstone 
Arsenal, AL 35898

Description of Request: $4,200,000 for Scenario Generation for IAMD 
Evaluation (SGIE) in fiscal year 2010. The entity to receive funding 
for this project is QinetiQ North America Systems Engineering Group, 
located at 890 Explorer Boulevard, Huntsville, AL 35806. The funding 
would be used for 54 ground test cases identified in the IAMD TEMP and 
7 flight test cases derived from ground test matrix. A scenario for 
each test case is required to capture the design specification as it is 
intended to perform in a battlefield situation. Taxpayer Justification: 
This program will contribute to the work of establishing an Integrated 
Air & Missile Defense System protect against air breathing missile and 
cruise missile threats. This work will provide a network centric system 
to integrate a mix of sensors and shooters through a common IAMD battle 
command system.

Request as named in the report: Enhanced--Rapid Tactical Integration 
for Fielding of Systems Initiative (E-RTIFS)

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: PeopleTec, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4901-D Corporate Drive, Huntsville, AL 
35805

Description of Request: $3,900,000 for Enhanced Rapid Tactical 
Integration for Fielding of Systems (ERTIFS) in fiscal year 2010. The 
entity to receive funding for this project is PeopleTec, Doug Scalf, 
Linda Maynor, located at PeopleTec, Inc. 4901-D Corporate Drive, 
Huntsville, AL 35805. The funding would be used to support early SoS 
testing to ensure that interoperability issues are corrected before 
software is released for formal AIC testing. The ABCS-BA will leverage 
and evolve ERTIFS to support four types of required Interoperability 
Tests: (1) Individual System, (2) System of Systems (e.g. Software 
Blocking), (3) Backwards Compatibility--Interoperability and (4) 
Regression Testing. Taxpayer Justification: The early identification of 
these


issues will limit cost and schedule overruns on Aviation/Missile 
Systems prior to expensive hardware tests.

Request as named in the report: Swarms Defense Systems

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Southeast Systems Technology

Address of Requesting Entity: 4090 South Memorial Parkway M/S 3427B, 
Huntsville, AL 35802

Description of Request: $3,000,000 funding for SWARMS DEFENSE SYSTEMS 
in fiscal year 2010. The entity to receive funding for this project is 
Computer Science Corporation, located at 4090 S. Memorial Parkway M/S 
3427B, Huntsville, Alabama 35801. The funding would be used to close 
the gap between current and future Air Defense Systems dealing with 
enemy mortars, rockets, UAV's, and cruise missiles. Future threats 
exceed all requirements of current system and future AD plans. Taxpayer 
Justification: Swarms Defense is designed to protect soldiers and 
critical assets against enemy fire, especially high volume small 
munitions such as mortars, rockets, UAV's, cruise missiles, developing 
the critical technologies required to close the gap in current asset 
protection plans.

Request as named in the report: Tactical UAV, Heavy Fuel Engine

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Science and Engineering Services

Address of Requesting Entity: 4015 Pulaski Pike, NW., Huntsville, AL 
35810

Description of Request: $2,000,000 for the Tactical UAV, Heavy Fuel 
Engine in fiscal year 2010. The entity to receive funding for this 
project is Science and Engineering Services, Inc., located at 4015 
Pulaski Pike, Huntsville, AL 35810. The funding would be used for 
development of lightweight military fuel engine for UAVs. Scope 
includes building engines to perform platform integration and flight 
test for use in a military environment. Funding supports design and 
implementation of the process to military standards. Taxpayer 
Justification: Shadow UAS is ideal for providing direct information to 
commanders increasing awareness. Heavy fuel technology allows an engine 
to burn any fuel, diesel, JP5, JP8, gasoline, producing low emission, 
can be economically manufactured, and maintained

Request as named in the report: Army Responsive Tactical Space System 
Exerciser (ARTSSE)

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: J2 Technologies Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4801 University Square, Suite 31, 
Huntsville, AL 35816

Description of Request: $3,000,000 for Army Responsive Tactical Space 
System Exerciser (ARTSSE) in fiscal year 2010. The entity to receive 
funding for this project is J2 Technologies Inc., located at 4801 
University Square, Suite 31, Huntsville, AL 35816-1815. The funding 
would be used to provide the hardware-in-the-loop test capability 
designed to address the need to define performance requirements, 
evaluate and execute Operationally Responsive Space programs thus 
ensuring the warfighter's continued access to space. Taxpayer 
Justification: Army Responsive Tactical Space System Exerciser (ARTSSE) 
provides technologies critical to maintaining access to space. ARTSSE 
supports an unfunded Army need to provide a responsive surge for space 
based communication, surveillance, and reconnaissance, especially when 
a change in circumstances brought about by foreign-owned assets 
requires a response from the U.S. systems within hours or a few days in 
order to maintain protection of U.S. personnel and assets.

Request as named in the report: Autonomous Cargo Acquisition for 
Rotorcraft Unmanned Aerial Vehicles

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Advanced Optical Systems, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 6767 Old Madison Pike, Suite 410, 
Huntsville, AL 35806

Description of Request: $1,600,000 for Autonomous Cargo Acquisition 
for Rotorcraft Unmanned Aerial Vehicles in fiscal year 2010. The entity 
to receive funding for this project is Advanced Optical Systems, Inc., 
located at 6767 Old Madison Pike, Suite 410, Huntsville, Alabama 35805. 
The funding would be used to demonstrate fully unmanned cargo pickup 
and delivery under operational conditions. The work will leverage 
current developments for manned systems, and will cooperate with TRADOC 
and logistics personnel at Ft. Rucker and Ft. Lee. Taxpayer 
Justification: The Army needs to leverage rotorcraft unmanned aerial 
systems to provide unmanned pickup and delivery for logistics supply 
and weapons placement. Unmanned cargo operations would reduce both 
aircrew losses and costs.

Request as named in the report: On-Board Vehicle Power (OBVP)

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DRS Training and Energy Management

Address of Requesting Entity: 110 Wynn Drive, Huntsville, AL 35805

Description of Request: $3,100,000 for On-Board Vehicle Power (OBVP) 
in fiscal year 2010. The entity to receive funding for this project is 
DRS Training and Energy Management, located at 110 Wynn Drive, 
Huntsville, AL 35805. The funding would be used for OBVP provides 
electric power for vehicles and mission electronics. OBVP fits the 
space inside the bell housing of vehicle transmissions. The system is 
capable of producing 30-70 kW. Increased power is needed for IED 
detection and weapon systems. Taxpayer Justification: Growth in energy 
requirements on the battlefield has created a critical need to 
accelerate this program to production readiness. The system can deliver 
mobile/exportable electric power from the vehicle engine for electric 
power gap requirements.

Request as named in the report: Extremely Large, Domestic Expendable 
and Reusable Structures (ELDERS)

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: Dpa Defense Production Act Purchases

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: ATK Aerospace Structures

Address of Requesting Entity: 751 County Road 989, Building 1000, 
Iuka, MS 38852

Description of Request: $9,800,000 For Current domestic large-scale, 
composites production capacity is constrained by processing limitations 
associated with the large diameter of the items being manufactured. At 
the same time, the Air Force is making future plans to utilize 
structures with diameters in excess of nine meters. The current 
domestic industrial production capacity does not support this scale of 
extremely large composite launch structures. The ELDERS Title III 
program was initiated in FY2009 with $8.0 million to scale-up domestic 
composites manufacturing and processing capacity and support facilities 
to meet this critical emerging need in military space access. The 
three-phase program includes evaluation, modification and qualification 
of current automated production equipment and facilities, and the 
acquisition of necessary industrial capacity and processing 
capabilities. In general, Title III activities serve to lower defense 
acquisition and life-cycle costs and to increase defense system 
readiness and performance through the use of higher quality, lower 
cost, and technologically superior materials and technologies. The 
ELDERS Program will increase the capacity for increasingly larger 
composite structures, including development and acquisition of higher 
performing composite processing equipment.

Request as named in the report: Adaptive Robotics Technology for 
Space, Air and Missiles [ART-SAM]

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Calhoun Community College

Address of Requesting Entity: 6250 Hwy. 31 North Decatur Campus, 
Tanner, AL 35671

Description of Request: $4,200,000 for Adaptive Robotics Technology 
for Space, Air and Missiles [ART-SAM] in fiscal year 2010. The entity 
to receive funding for this project is Calhoun Community College, 
located at 6250 U.S. Highway 31 North, Tanner, AL 35671. The funding 
would be used for a joint venture with leadership from the U.S. Army 
Space and Missile Defense Command (SMDC) and Alabama Industrial 
Development Training (AIDT), and will establish national robotics 
research and development capability at Calhoun Community College to 
leverage government, industry, and academia partnerships and their 
respective investments. Additionally, funds will be used to procure 
instrumentation, components and test fixtures to provide a hands-on 
laboratory for experiments and process testing in an unmanned 
environment. Taxpayer Justification: The ART-SAM project, once 
operational, will develop robotics technologies, systems and products 
for a variety of SMDC projects, programs, and core mission needs. It 
will serve as an economic development catalyst for robotic research and 
development,


training, operations and manufacturing. It will also support workforce 
development initiatives throughout the state.

Request as named in the report: Protective Self-Decontaminating 
Surfaces

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--DW

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Ventana Research Corp. (VRC)

Address of Requesting Entity: 139 Barnes Drive, Suite 2, Tyndall AFB, 
FL

Description of Request: $1,600,000 for ACD&P project of self-
decontaminating surfaces for long-lasting personnel (e.g. clothing) & 
shelter (e.g. hospitals) protection from Chem/Bio (& nerve gas) 
attacks. Light-activated decontaminating material produces singlet 
oxygen, a mild oxidant, to destroy CB agents. Demonstrated the material 
traps & stores excess singlet oxygen during periods of sun & artificial 
light. Stored singlet oxygen is released to provide indoor & outdoor 
protection of 8+ hours during no light & dark periods. Further, no 
protection loss demonstrated in intense Arizona sunlight 39+ hours 
during 100+ degrees days. Completed FY07 Individual Protection (IP) ATD 
milestones. Started FY08 IP ACD&P phase & initiated nerve gas 
protection ATD for ACD&P in FY10 and will continue ACD&P effort in 
FY09. Technology: Sun or artificial light activates the decontaminating 
material to produce singlet oxygen, a mild, short-lived oxidant that 
effectively destroys chemical/nerve & biological agents. This long-
lasting & durable capability for around-the-clock protection using sun 
or artificial light is the heart of the invention. Our FY10 request is 
prompted by the need for including nerve gas and nuclear 
decontamination capability. This will involve added-on tasks to the 
program in terms additional test and evaluation efforts. Nerve gas 
protection effort will address chemistry efforts and tests, nuclear 
protection disposable, absorbent materials.

Progress: (1) Mustard gas stimulant treated fabric tests demonstrated 
self-decontamination capability after exposure of 39 days to the 
intense AZ summer sun; (2) Kappler Provent fabric treated with VRC 
Decon Dye Coating demonstrated standard industrial practice can be used 
for first-article production of garments for breathability, field 
laundering, & durability testing; (3) VRC Decon Dye Coating showed no 
adverse effect upon Provent fabric's breathability, an essential Joint 
Service Lightweight Integrated Suit Technology (JSLIST) Ensemble 
requirement; (4) Airtight seam-bonding process demonstrated with 
Provent Fabric dyed with VRC Dye Coating enables standard protective 
suit manufacturing procedures eliminating protective coating 
application after suit completion, a more costly approach; (5) NMR & 
UV-Visible Spectroscopy showed Ventana Decon Dye Coating efficiently 
traps visible light-generated singlet oxygen in repeated release & 
oxidation a mustard gas & VX stimulant to decontaminated product in 
darkness; (6) UV-Visible Spectroscopy demonstrated to be a more cost-
effective QA tool than conventional NMR inspection; (7) Live tests will 
be performed at the Defense Science & Technology Laboratory (distl), 
Proton Down, UK, during the week of April 27, 2009, additional tests 
are planned for 2Q09 & 3Q09. Samples have been provided to Dr. Stephen 
Lee, Chief Scientist, Ofc. Director U.S. Army Research Office, for 
coordination & ITAR, export/import matters & permits.

The requested FY10 program under JPM-CBD's leadership addresses: (1) 
Perform ATDs on VRC Decon Dye coatings to add nerve gas & radiological 
agent (disposable garments & coatings) protection; (2) Conduct 
operational validity tests (ACD&P) of preselected Light-Activated CBNR 
Protective systems; (3) Continue pre-production of protection systems 
at Kappler & Ventana for several ACD&Ps of representative JLIST 
materials, components & suits & upgrade facilities to full production 
status.

Request as named in the report: Remote Monitoring and Troubleshooting 
(RMAT) Project

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: OP.N

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Intergraph

Address of Requesting Entity: 170 Graphics Drive, Madison, AL 35758

Description of Request: $2,320,000 for RMAT will integrate with 
shipboard local control and monitoring systems by networking them 
together and providing secure shore-based remote monitoring of those 
systems in real time. Through the use of sensors, networks, and 
software-based controllers, RMAT will provide the means for monitoring 
and troubleshooting various shipboard systems that are vital to ship 
operations, and allow engineers from various shore-based locations to 
collaborate in a real-time secure environment. RMAT will enable faster 
response times and mitigation of damage caused by engineering 
casualties, blast, fire, flooding, and equipment malfunction. 
Implementation of RMAT will increase the level of sensor data fusion, 
situational awareness, and survivability of the ship, as well as its 
ability to successfully complete its mission. The change from analog 
systems and manual data collection will save thousands of man-hours 
every year. Without funding for this effort, a need will exist to 
continue maintenance of obsolete hardware-based control panels and 
large redundant watch-standing and damage control repair parties that 
rely on slow, outdated, and error producing control systems and 
information management techniques.

Request as named in the report: Transitioning Stretch Broken Carbon 
Fiber to Production Programs

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Hexcel Corporation

Address of Requesting Entity: 3300 Mallard Fox Drive, Decatur, AL 
35609

Description of Request: $3,200,000 for composite structure on 
existing military aircraft has saved weight and reduced O&M costs. 
However, a solution to the high cost and unrealized weight benefits of 
these structures is badly needed. Studies done in conjunction with the 
major aircraft manufacturers show that while composite material 
properties predict a weight savings of about 50% is achievable, only 
about 10-20% is being realized in today's designs. The problem is that 
the composite materials that are currently available in the marketplace 
cannot be formed into the complex geometries necessary to realize the 
true weight savings available. This results in pressure at the design 
stage to reduce the complexity of parts so they are more fabrication 
friendly. If the designer holds firm on the part complexity, automated 
fabrication techniques are often ruled out due to the challenges of 
forming complex geometries with these processes. The end result is 
added weight and cost to the structure. Stretch Broken Carbon Fiber 
(SBCF) technology affords more weight reduction opportunities than any 
other solution under evaluation by the DoD. SBCF product forms offer a 
pseudo plasticity akin to metals that makes the forming of complex 
geometries much easier. These products can be used in all of the 
automated composite processes currently being used by fabricators 
including fiber and tape placement and engineered textile approaches 
for fabricating net shape preforms used in resin infusion processes. 
The focus of this program will be two-fold. First, funding will be 
allocated to various composite part fabricators to develop robust 
processes to mold full size prototype parts with SBCF product forms. 
Second, funding will be allocated to generate a Mil-HdBk-17 approved 
database. Both tasks are necessary to take this technology into 
production.

Request as named in the report: Cooperative International 
Neuromuscular Research Group

Requesting Member: Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Children's National Medical Center

Address of Requesting Entity: 111 Michigan Avenue, NW., Washington, 
DC 20010

Description of Request: $3,280,000 for funds will be used for ongoing 
research and testing using molecular patches, to see if the same 
improvements experienced by dogs in clinical trials can be extended to 
humans with muscle damage. The funds will be used for ongoing research 
and testing using molecular patches, to see if the same improvements 
experienced by dogs in clinical trials can be extended to humans with 
muscle damage. This research benefits both warfighters (in terms of 
combating the effects of biological warfare attacks), and also 
potentially the civilian population who suffer from similar muscle 
tissue deterioration.
