---
---

# RETIREMENT OF AIR FORCE MAJOR GENERAL ROGER P. LEMPKE
## `ba498e39f2b1664ed2b9dd3cb5404793`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 24 October 2007`

---

 Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I wish to pay tribute 
to one of America's finest military leaders, Air Force MG Roger P. 
Lempke, on the occasion of his retirement as adjutant general of the 
Nebraska National Guard.

The National Guard has been tested by the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan more than any period since World War II. Nationally, it has 
been a true test of the Guard to maintain strength at home and abroad 
during a time of lengthy deployments, mounting casualties, declining 
recruitment, and a shortage of equipment. Yet, in Nebraska during this 
period, under the competent leadership of General Lempke, the Nebraska 
National Guard has continued to thrive, pulling in record numbers of 
recruits, increasing retention, and establishing an active family 
support program.

General Lempke instills confidence, not only in the troops he 
commands and their families but in the elected officials he serves. 
Since the tragic attacks of September 11, 2001, and during the time of 
war that has followed, we are fortunate to have had his very capable 
leadership as he oversaw the National Guard's changing role into an 
active duty combat force. The American people have seen vividly that 
the National Guard is no longer a supplemental force; it serves in 
seamless fashion with the active duty.

As past president of the National Association of State Adjutants 
General, General Lempke has been a vocal advocate for the National 
Guard, working with the Pentagon to help shape policies on issues 
ranging from base closures to troop strength. A graduate of the Air 
Force Academy, this even-tempered Nebraska farm boy and devoted husband 
and father rose through the ranks to become a respected military 
leader, not only in Nebraska but among his peers nationally. He and I 
have worked closely together on many projects which benefited not only 
Nebraska but helped our Nation's military as a whole.

I will miss that close association with the general as our 
professional relationship comes to a close, but on a personal level, I 
will always be proud to call Roger P. Lempke a trusted and respected 
friend.
