---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE SENATE THAT ATTORNEY GENERAL ALBERTO  GONZALES NO LONGER HOLDS THE CONFIDENCE OF THE SENATE AND OF THE  AMERICAN PEOPLE--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `ba5be16cf6b2c37846033268ba9f0575`
`Mr. BYRD — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, 28 months ago, on February 3, 2005, I voted 
against the confirmation of Alberto Gonzales to be the Attorney General 
of the United States. Hallelujah, Amen! Eight days before that, I was 
one of 13 Senators who voted against the nomination of Condoleezza Rice 
to be the U.S. Secretary of State. And, if the Senate had been 
permitted to vote on the nomination of Paul Wolfowitz to head the World 
Bank, I would have voted against that nomination, too.

I am proud of my votes against confirmation of these failed 
architects of the unconstitutional war in Iraq. Their flawed policies 
have cost our Nation dearly. I shudder to contemplate the billions and 
even trillions of dollars and the decades of effort that it will take 
to correct their extraordinary errors in judgment. These are the same 
administration officials, led by Alberto Gonzales here at home, who 
have done everything they can to abolish our Nation's carefully 
calibrated separation of powers and to undermine Americans' civil 
liberties. Based on ongoing errors in judgment and mistakes made on his 
watch, I remain convinced that my vote against Alberto Gonzales was in 
the best interests of this country.

It is, therefore, not surprising that I am pleased to be an original 
cosponsor of S.J. Res. 14. This resolution expresses the sense of the 
Senate that Attorney General Gonzales no longer holds the confidence of 
the Senate and of the American people. Frankly, he never held my 
confidence. Not from day one, and I will tell you why that is so.

When President Bush nominated Alberto Gonzales to be the U.S. 
Attorney General, the President stated that Mr. Gonzales, as White 
House counsel, had a ''sharp intellect,'' and that it was White House 
counsel's ''sound judgment'' that had, in the President's words, 
''helped shape our policies in the war on terror.''

Sharp intellect and sound judgment? I have heard of damning with 
faint praise, but applying those words to someone who has had a major 
role in the reckless and incompetent way in which this administration 
has waged its so-called war on terror is hardly a compliment.

But don't expect Alberto Gonzales to take responsibility for what 
happened on his watch. Throughout his time in this administration, 
whenever Mr. Gonzales has been questioned about what he knows about 
improper conduct, his standard and repetitive response, in the words of 
the fictional Sergeant Schultz is simply: ''I know nothing.'' When 
questioned about who made the decision to fire U.S. attorneys for what 
appear to be purely political reasons, he implausibly states that while 
he signed off on the decision, he was not really responsible because he 
was out of the loop.

At a press conference on March 13, Attorney General Gonzales stated 
that he knew nothing of the scandal surrounding the U.S. attorneys, 
because he was, in his words, ''not involved in seeing any memos, was 
not involved in any discussions about what was going on,'' and, he 
said, ''that's basically what I knew as the Attorney General.'' Mr. 
President, that is not an impressive response. Even the Attorney 
General now says his comment was ''too broad'' and that he 
''misspoke.'' He now admits that he did have some involvement. But he 
said this only after the Justice Department released e-mails and 
memoranda which showed that he had, in fact, been involved in 
discussions about the firings.

He also claimed that he is not really responsible, because, in his 
words, ''in an organization of 110,000 people,'' he said, ''I am not 
aware of every bit of information that passes through the halls of 
justice, nor am I aware of all decisions.'' Now that seems an odd 
assertion, considering that he is, in fact--if you will allow me to use 
the President's terminology--the top ''decider'' at the U.S. Department 
of Justice.

When the Attorney General testified before the Senate Judiciary 
Committee on April 19, 2007, he continued to argue that he was simply 
out of touch--an assertion that has been disputed by the two employees 
he had charged with filling the U.S. attorney positions with party 
loyalists, D. Kyle Sampson and Monica Goodling.

On May 15, 2007, speaking before the National Press Club, Mr. 
Gonzales made yet another effort to shift the blame for any wrongdoing. 
But this time he chose a new victim. He said, ''You have to remember, 
at the end of the day, the recommendations [to fire the U.S. Attorneys] 
reflected the views of the deputy attorney general,'' meaning Paul 
McNulty. But the Associated Press reported immediately thereafter that 
documents released from the Justice Department showed that McNulty was 
not closely involved in picking all of the U.S. attorneys who were put 
on the list. Instead, it was a job mostly driven by the Attorney 
General's own, two hand-picked subordinates, Sampson and Goodling.

I would invite those who believe that Alberto Gonzales did not know 
what was happening in his own Department to join me on a quick trip 
down memory lane. Let me recount a section of the speech that I 
delivered on the Senate floor just prior to voting against his 
confirmation to be Attorney General. I reminded my colleagues at that 
time that Judge Gonzales had admitted being physically present at 
meetings in his office to determine which acts against enemy combatants 
should be outlawed as torture.

But at his confirmation hearing, he disavowed having any role in the 
administration's initial decision to define torture extremely narrowly. 
On January 6, 2005, he was asked by a member of the Judiciary Committee 
whether he had ever chaired a meeting in which he discussed with 
Justice Department attorneys the legitimacy of such interrogation 
techniques. He was asked if, in the meetings he attended, there was 
discussion of strapping detainees to boards and holding them under 
water as if to drown them. He testified that there were such meetings, 
and while he did remember having had some ''discussions'' with Justice 
Department attorneys, he simply could not recall what he told them in 
those meetings. He stated that, as White House counsel, he might have 
attended those meetings, but it was not his role but that of the 
Justice Department to determine which interrogation techniques were 
lawful.


In other words, he was saying then, just as he is saying today: Don't 
hold me accountable! Don't blame me if mistakes were made! And, then, 
just like today, he didn't point the finger of blame at just one other 
victim. He spread the blame around. While he admitted he'd made some 
mistakes as White House counsel, he attempted to further deflect 
responsibility for his actions by saying that a number of what he 
called other ''operational agencies'' also took responsibility for 
making flawed decisions on prisoner interrogation techniques.

At his confirmation hearing, he said:




 I have a recollection that we had some discussions in my 


 office, but let me be very clear with the Committee. It is 


 not my job to decide which types of methods of obtaining 


 information from terrorists would be the most effective. That 


 job responsibility falls to folks within the agencies. It is 


 also not my job to make the ultimate decision about whether 


 or not those methods would, in fact, meet the requirements of 


 the anti-torture statute. That would be the job for the 


 agencies . . . I viewed it as their responsibility to make a 


 decision as to whether or not a procedure or method would, in 


 fact, be lawful.

Whether on the issue of torture or of firing U.S. attorneys, when it 
comes to Alberto Gonzales taking responsibility for his actions--as 
Yogi Berra would say--it's deja vu all over again. One wishes that 
Judge Gonzales could tell us, just once, what his job is, rather than 
always telling us only what it is not.

Article II, section 3 of the United States Constitution, as head of 
the Executive Branch, the President has a legal duty to take care that 
the laws be faithfully executed. The Constitution does not say that the 
President or his officers ''should'' or ''may'' undertake that 
responsibility: it clearly states that the President ''shall take Care 
that the Laws be faithfully executed.'' The President and his Chief Law 
Enforcement Officer at the Justice Department must be held accountable 
not only when they fail to faithfully execute the law, but also when 
they or their subordinates attempt to undermine, ignore, or gut the 
law.

The Attorney General has a credibility problem, and the American 
people know it. Despite his assertions to the contrary, he continues to 
contribute in large measure to the flawed policies and decision making 
that have


flowed from this administration over the past seven years. For all of 
these reasons, I urge my colleagues to support S.J. Res. 14.