# None
## `ba64acac321da4a687696fd4ccc59630`
`Mr. KYL — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, on Monday, GEN Peter Pace completed his term 
as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. A highly decorated officer, 
GEN Peter Pace was the first Marine officer to serve as Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff in our Nation's history.

General Pace graduated the U.S. Naval Academy in 1967. After 
completing the Basic School in 1968, he deployed to Vietnam as a marine 
rifle platoon commander. After Vietnam, General Pace served overseas in 
Thailand, South Korea, Japan, and Somalia.

His style as a humble commander, selflessly dedicated to his 
obligations, brought accolades from both superior officers and enlisted 
soldiers. General Pace has held command at nearly every level, and 
excelled in all respects in the uniformed service of his country.

As Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Pace served as an 
adviser to the President a role he conducted with unquestionable 
professionalism. As a confidential advisor and military man, General 
Pace did his utmost to steer clear of the public disputes and political 
battles that so often afflict Washington decisionmaking.

General Pace's professional conduct, through a period of time marked 
by new and uniquely difficult tribulations, is a model for those to 
come. A strong voice for providing security to Iraq's population and 
holding areas cleared of terrorists, General Pace's counsel has played 
a role in building consensus for the military strategy that is 
producing successes on the ground in Iraq. It should be noted that 
General Pace assumed his duties in the face of a rising insurgency in 
Iraq. He leaves office with a successful strategy in place, an 
improving situation in Iraq, and troop draw downs taking place due to 
progress on the ground. In short, he has left his office in better 
condition than it was when he entered it. For his exemplary service he 
has earned the gratitude of a safer, more secure Nation.
