# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `ba72d26aa3f792b8f53a4025f5df6091`
`Mr. SANDERS — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, let me begin by thanking the majority 
leader, Senator Reid, and Budget Chairman Kent Conrad for their strong 
statements in opposition to the Nussle nomination. I think that is the 
right position, and I appreciate them speaking out on it.

As a member of the Budget Committee, I placed a hold on the 
nomination of former Congressman Jim Nussle to become OMB Director and 
I voted against his confirmation at the committee level.

The reason I did that is not because I have any personal animus 
toward Mr. Nussle. I have known Jim Nussle for over 16 years. We served 
in the House together, and I like him. So this is not personal. The 
reason I strongly oppose Mr. Nussle becoming the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget has, in fact, little to do with Mr. Nussle and 
everything to do with the failed economic policies of the Bush 
administration.

The problem is, the President and his advisers have become 
increasingly isolated and out of touch with the economic realities 
facing ordinary Americans. The simple truth is that the middle class 
continues to shrink, poverty has increased over the last 6 years, the 
gap between the rich and everyone else is growing wider, and millions 
of Americans are working longer hours for lower wages. Meanwhile, in 
the midst of all of this, President Bush continues to tell the American 
people day after day how great and how wonderful the economy is doing. 
This is an insult to American workers and is something that should end, 
and end now.

This President needs an OMB Director who can provide a sense of 
reality with regard to the economic conditions facing ordinary 
Americans and not continue to perpetrate a false mythology. That is 
what this debate is all about.

Year after year, President Bush, members of his administration, and 
his advisers, in almost an Orwellian sense, have sounded like a broken 
record on the economy. They have told the American people over and over 
again that the economy--I am now going to use quotes that come directly 
from the President and his administration--is ''strong and getting 
stronger.'' The economy is ''thriving.'' The economy is ''robust.'' The 
economy is ''vibrant.'' The economy is ''solid.'' The economy is 
''booming.'' The economy is ''powerful.'' The economy is ''fantastic.'' 
The economy is ''amazing.'' The economy is ''just marvelous.''

Those are quotes that come from the President, his administration, 
and his advisers. That is what the President and his administration are 
telling the American people.

Now, let's look at reality. How can President Bush and his advisers 
claim that this economy is robust when nearly 5 million Americans have 
slipped into poverty since the year 2000, including over 1 million 
children? We hear a lot about family values in Washington, and I hope 
when people talk about family values, they are talking about our kids, 
the weakest and most vulnerable people in our society.

How can a significant increase in poverty since Bush has been 
President among our children occur at the same time as he describes 
this economy as ''robust''? This is absurd. This is insulting.



How can the President and his advisers claim the economy is vibrant 
when the median income for working-age families has declined by about 
$2,400 since President Bush has been in office? The reality is, from 
2001 through 2005, the bottom 90 percent of households experienced a 
4.2-percent decline in their market-based incomes, representing a loss 
of over $1,200 per household on average. How does that sound like a 
vibrant economy?

Madam President, how can the President of the United States and his 
advisers claim that ''the economy is strong and getting stronger,'' 
when the personal savings rate has been below zero for eight 
consecutive quarters--something that has not occurred since the Great 
Depression? What this means is, with increased energy costs, increased 
health care costs, increased education costs, and other increased 
expenses, the average American is now spending more money than he or 
she is earning. More money is going out than is coming in. In other 
words, people are going deeper and deeper into debt. This doesn't sound 
to me like an economy that is ''strong and getting stronger.''

How can the President and his advisers claim that the economy is 
''healthy''--that is another word they have used--when 8.6 million 
Americans have lost their health insurance since the year 2000, and a 
record-breaking 47 million Americans are uninsured, with millions more 
underinsured? That doesn't sound too healthy to me. All over this 
country we find workers who are losing their health insurance. We find 
people who are paying more and more for, in many instances, inferior 
coverage, and you have a President out there saying this economy is 
''healthy.'' Well, I am sure many of those people who just lost their 
health insurance this last year would be quite surprised to find that 
this economy is ''healthy.''

How can this President and his advisers claim that the economy is 
''thriving,'' when, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 35 
million Americans in our country struggled to put food on the table 
last year, and the number of the hungriest Americans keeps going up? 
How do you have an economy that is thriving when more and more people 
are hungry and when millions of our fellow citizens have a difficult 
time putting food on the table? This is not a thriving economy. Hunger 
in America is a national disgrace.

Madam President, how can the President of the United States and his 
advisers claim that our economy is ''booming''--that is another word 
they have used--when college students today are graduating deeper and 
deeper in debt, with the average student now owing $20,000 upon 
graduation. Even more disturbing, some 400,000 qualified high school 
students don't go to college in the first place because they cannot 
afford it and because they do not want to come out of school tens and 
tens of thousands of dollars in debt. Does this sound like a booming 
economy to you? Well, tell that to the young people in this country who 
can no longer afford to go to college. Tell them about how the economy 
is ''booming.''

How can the President of the United States and his advisers claim 
that our economy is ''fantastic'' when home foreclosures are now the 
highest on record, turning the American dream of home ownership into an 
American nightmare for millions of families?

How can the President and his economic advisers claim that the 
economy is ''powerful'' when the number of working families paying more 
than half of their limited incomes on housing has decreased by 72 
percent since 1997? So you have people working hard, 50, 60 hours a 
week and, because of the high cost of housing and their limited 
incomes, they are spending more than 50 percent of what they earn on 
housing.

How can the President of the United States and his economic advisers 
claim that our economy is ''the envy of the world'' when the U.S. has 
the highest rate of childhood poverty, the highest infant mortality 
rate among major countries, the highest overall poverty rate, the 
largest gap between the rich and the poor, and we remain the only 
country in the industrialized world that does not guarantee health care 
to all people through a national health care program? How is that 
economy the ''envy of the world''?

How can the President and his advisers claim that the economy is 
''amazing'' when we have lost over 3 million good-paying manufacturing 
jobs since the year 2000, mainly due to our record-breaking $765 
billion trade deficit? Well, tell workers in the State of Vermont and 
all over this country about how amazing the economy is when their 
plants are shut down, when their jobs go to China, and when, if they 
are lucky enough to find a new job, in most cases that job will pay 
substantially less than the job they used to have. Tell the white-
collar information technology workers whose jobs are going to India how 
''fantastic'' the economy is, when their new jobs pay less than the 
jobs they used to have.

How can this President and his economic advisers claim the economy is 
''vibrant'' when the number of college graduates earning poverty-level 
wages has more than doubled over the past 15 years?

My goal this afternoon is not to engage in a major debate on the 
economy or what proposals we need to improve the economic life of 
working people. That is an enormously important debate and one that I 
hope we have sooner than later, but it is not really today's debate. My 
goal today, and the reason I put a hold on the Nussle nomination, is 
simply to make the point that the Bush administration is completely out 
of touch with the economic reality facing tens of millions of American 
families, and that we need an OMB Director and an economic adviser who 
will make this President understand what the ordinary American family 
is going through.

Let me give you an example of why we desperately need an OMB Director 
who can do this. While the President of the United States and his 
advisers tell us how ''robust'' and how ''vibrant'' and how ''strong'' 
the American economy is, well, the people of our country, the people 
who live in that economy, the people who work in that economy have a 
different perception of reality than the gentleman in the Oval Office.

In a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, published last month, more 
than two-thirds of the American people said they believe the U.S. 
economy is either in recession now or will be in recession next year. 
That is what the American people are saying, the people who are living 
the economy. They are saying that despite the daily assertions of 
President Bush and his advisers. Further, 72 percent of Americans 
surveyed in a mid-August Gallup poll said the economy was ''getting 
worse.'' That is the most pessimistic outlook on the economy since 
Gallup began asking that question in the early 1990s.

Madam President, we have a real disconnect. We have a situation in 
which the American people are experiencing a certain reality, telling 
us about a certain reality, and a President who is living in a very 
different world.

The President keeps telling us how great the economy is doing, but 
the American people who work every day, who pay their bills every 
month, who are trying to provide health care for their families and a 
college education for their kids are not buying it. In other words, the 
people who are living in this economy have a very different perspective 
on reality than does this President and his advisers, and that creates 
a very dangerous situation which must be corrected by an OMB Director 
who lives in the real world and who can give this President some real-
world advice.

What people understand in their guts and what they fear the most is 
that if economic trends continue along the same path they have been 
going for the last many years, we will see for the first time in the 
modern history of this country that our kids, the next generation, will 
have a lower standard of living than we do.

What the American dream has always been and what my family, which 
never had much money, experienced and what millions of American 
families have experienced is that if you work hard and you save your 
money, your children will have a better economic life, more 
opportunities than you do. That is what every parent's dream is: That 
their kids will do better than they did.

But I am afraid this American dream is rapidly disappearing. I am 
afraid that with so many American families, the American dream has 
become an


American nightmare. To cite one source--and there are many others--a 
recent joint study by the Pew Charitable Trust and the Brookings 
Institution found that men in their early thirties earned on average 12 
percent less in 2004 than their fathers did in 1974 after adjusting for 
inflation. In other words, for millions of families, despite a huge 
increase in worker productivity, we are moving in exactly the wrong 
direction. Workers are producing more but, in many cases, they are 
worse off than their parents.

President Bush desperately needs an OMB Director who is not afraid to 
tell the President the truth about these harsh economic realities and 
not be an echo, not repeat the mythology that this President and his 
advisers are bringing forth. President Bush needs a Budget Director who 
will make him face the facts and not his fantasies. Perhaps most 
importantly, President Bush needs a Budget Director who is willing to 
compromise with those of us in Congress who are fighting for the needs 
of working families and are not here to represent the wealthiest people 
in this country and the largest corporations.

Unfortunately, there is nothing in former Congressman Jim Nussle's 
background to suggest he is that person. Quite the contrary. I must 
say, I am amused to hear some of my colleagues say: Well, we were at a 
hearing with Mr. Nussle and we asked him a question and he said he is 
open to doing this and doing that. That is wonderful at a confirmation 
hearing. I worked with Mr. Nussle for 16 years in the House. He was 
chairman of the House Budget Committee for 6 years. His record is 
clear. Pay attention to the record rather than what someone might or 
might not say in a confirmation hearing.

Let me suggest where I think the confusion in this whole discussion 
lies, where the disconnect lies. That is that when President Bush tells 
us the economy is doing great, that it is robust, that it is vibrant--
all of his adjectives--the truth is he is right in one sense. He is 
right in one sense. The economy is not doing well for the vast majority 
of our people who are in the middle class. The economy is certainly not 
doing well for working families who, in many cases, work longer hours 
for low wages. The economy is not doing well for our lower income 
citizens. Poverty has increased significantly since President Bush has 
been in the White House. But the economy, we must admit, is doing well 
and, in fact, doing very well for the wealthiest people in this 
country, and that is true.

So I think the confusion lies in that when the President says the 
economy is doing great, what he means is that the economy is doing 
great for his wealthy friends and for the CEOs of the largest 
corporations in America. I admit he is right in that regard.

If you look at the world from the perspective of CEOs of large 
corporations who now make over 350 times what their workers make, if 
you look at the economy from the perspective of hedge fund managers, 
some of whom make hundreds of millions of dollars a year, if you look 
at the economy from the perspective of people who have more money than 
they know what to do with, who are literally building yachts that are 
longer than a football field, I can understand how one could come to 
the conclusion that the economy is doing very well because from their 
point of view, from their reality, the economy is doing very well.

Today the simple truth is the upper 1 percent of families in America 
have not had it so good since the 1920s. So I concede, President Bush, 
you are right. For all your friends who are in the top 1 percent, the 
economy is doing very well. But some of us--maybe not all of us but 
some of us--are here not to represent the richest 1 percent; we are 
kind of worried about the bottom 90 percent, the bottom 50 percent, the 
ordinary people who go to work every single day and are struggling hard 
to keep their heads above water and to provide the necessities of life 
for their kids.


In 2005, the last available figures I have, while average incomes for 
the bottom 90 percent--that is where most of the folks are--the bottom 
90 percent of Americans declined by $172, the wealthiest 1/100th of 1 
percent reported an average income of $25.7 million, a 1-year increase 
of $4.4 million. Let me repeat that because I think this deals with the 
confusion of why the President thinks the economy is doing so good.

The income of the bottom 90 percent of Americans declined by $172 
while the income of the wealthiest 1/100th of 1 percent increased by 
$4.4 million.

In 2005, the top 1 percent of Americans received the largest share of 
national income since 1928. Today, rather incredibly--and I was 
interested in hearing a colleague of mine talking about, oh, my 
goodness, the wealthy are paying so much in taxes. Well, there is a 
reason, because today, incredibly, the top 300,000 Americans--300,000--
now earn nearly as much as the bottom 150 million Americans combined; 
300,000 earning almost as much income as the bottom 150 million 
Americans combined.

This constitutes by far the most unequaled distribution of income in 
any major country on Earth, and that gap continues to grow wider and 
wider. This is an issue this Congress must address. It is not 
acceptable. People keep talking in a general sense about the economy 
while ignoring the people in the economy. We have to focus on this 
growing income in wealth disparity in this country.

While millions of Americans--it is true in my State of Vermont and it 
is true all over this country--are working two and three jobs trying to 
cobble together an income and perhaps some health insurance, the 
collective net worth of the wealthiest 400 Americans increased by $120 
billion last year to $1.25 trillion, according to Forbes magazine.

Let me repeat that statement because it is an astounding fact. The 
collective net worth of the wealthiest 400 Americans--400 is not a lot 
of people--increased by $120 billion last year to $1.25 trillion. 
Remember, at the same time as the personal savings rate is below zero 
and millions of Americans are going deeper and deeper into debt, the 
collective net worth of the wealthiest 400 Americans increased by $120 
billion.

That is what this economy is doing. The top 1 percent now owns more 
wealth than the bottom 90 percent, and the reality is the rich are 
getting richer, the middle class is shrinking, and the gap between the 
very wealthiest people in our society and everyone else is growing 
wider and wider. We are becoming very different countries--people on 
top live in a certain world, and the vast majority of people are living 
in another world entirely.

What does all of this have to do with the next Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, which is what we are here this afternoon to 
discuss? In my opinion, it has a whole lot to do with who should become 
the next Director of the OMB.

A Federal budget--and our budget is now almost $3 trillion--is more 
than a long list of numbers. The Federal budget, as any family budget, 
is a statement of our Nation's values and our priorities. It is not any 
different, except the numbers are astronomical, that every family has 
to deal with: How do they spend their money? Where do they spend their 
money? What are their priorities? It is the same debate we have in the 
Senate. The Federal budget is a statement about what our country is 
about, what we stand for, and who we are as a people.

We would all, I believe, find it irresponsible and counterproductive 
if a family whom we knew, whom we observed, went out and bought a great 
big car and they bought a great big boat and went on fancy vacations to 
Las Vegas, all the while neglecting their kids at home. The kids were 
ill clothed, ill fed, ill taken care of. We would say that family is 
irresponsible.

We need to use those same values when we look at the budget of the 
United States of America. Preparing the Federal budget encompasses the 
same set of values. It is about spending taxpayers' dollars where we 
should be spending them and not spending them where we should not be 
spending them. It is about taking a hard look at the needs of all our 
people, especially those who are most in need, and prioritizing that 
budget in an intelligent, fair, and rational way. That is what an OMB 
Director is supposed to do. That is what his or her job description is.

In February, the President told us about his values and his 
priorities when he submitted his fiscal year 2008


budget to Congress. Fortunately, thanks to the excellent work of 
Chairman Conrad, the Senate rejected the President's budget and passed 
a budget resolution that was much more responsive to the needs of 
ordinary Americans, and I thank Chairman Conrad for doing that. I had 
the opportunity of working with him as a member of the Budget 
Committee. But as we in the Senate all know, even though the budget 
resolution conference report passed the House and the Senate in May, 
that is a first step. It is the annual appropriations bills that 
actually provide the funding which keeps our Federal Government 
running. Unlike the budget resolution, which cannot be vetoed, the 
President has the opportunity to veto each and every appropriations 
bill that comes across his desk, and with very few exceptions, this is 
exactly what the President has threatened to do unless Congress accepts 
his overall spending requests.


In other words, the President has said to Congress: It is my way or 
the highway. We will do it my way or I will veto what you are proposing 
to do. This is the wrong way to negotiate with Congress on the 
appropriations process. The President needs someone to advise him that 
a budget should address the needs of all the American people and not 
just the wealthiest people in our country. The President needs an 
adviser to tell him that it is more important to pay attention to 
working families all over this country, many of whom are falling 
further and further behind--to pay attention to those families rather 
than a handful of billionaires. Frankly, based on his record in 
Congress, I am afraid Mr. Nussle will not do that. He is the wrong man 
for this position at this particular moment in American history.

Now, let me say a few words about the President's budget that he is 
so adamant that Congress adopt. Let's look at the values and the 
priorities this President is proposing. The President has proposed in 
his budget, despite the growing health care crisis in this country, 
that he wishes to cut Medicare and Medicaid by $280 billion over the 
next decade, lowering the quality of health care for approximately 43 
million senior citizens and people with disabilities who depend on 
Medicare, and more than 50 million Americans who rely on Medicaid. That 
is his priority--cut Medicare, cut Medicaid.

Even worse--and to me this is a deeply moral issue in a nation that 
already has the disgrace of having the highest rate of childhood 
poverty in the industrialized world; over 18 percent of our kids are in 
poverty--at a time when 8.7 million children have no health insurance, 
the President has refused to adequately fund the Children's Health 
Insurance Program in his budget. Now, here is where the President needs 
some good advice. But I have listened and I haven't heard that advice 
coming from Mr. Nussle. He has had the opportunity. He was nominated a 
while back.

Last month, as we all know, the Senate voted by a 68-to-31 margin to 
expand the SCHIP program to provide an additional 3 million children in 
our country with health insurance. Eighteen Republican Senators thought 
this was a good idea, and virtually everybody on our side of the aisle 
voted for it. Although I believe the Senate should have done much 
more--I believe all of our children should be covered--this is clearly 
a step in the right direction. The House passed an even more generous 
bill to expand SCHIP, with the support of some Republicans. But instead 
of working with the Senate and the House, the President issued veto 
threats on both of these bills.

What will Mr. Nussle's advice be on this issue? Will he tell the 
President that it is an international disgrace that we are the only 
major country on Earth that doesn't provide health care to all of our 
people and that we have to address that immediately? Will he tell the 
President to rescind his veto threat? I doubt it. I doubt it very much. 
Based on his track record of chairmanship of the House Budget Committee 
for 6 years, I don't think that is going to happen.

While the President does not believe we have enough money to increase 
health insurance coverage for children, it has been reported that the 
President will be asking for another $50 billion for the misguided war 
in Iraq. Fifty billion dollars in additional funding for the Iraq war, 
but we don't have $5 billion to $10 billion a year to provide health 
insurance to millions of uninsured kids. It is time the President had a 
budget director who is willing to say: Excuse me, Mr. President, but 
that is wrong. That is not what this country is about. It is time to 
get our priorities straight. I am afraid Mr. Nussle will not be the OMB 
Director who does that.

What else does the President's budget have to say about the 
priorities of this country? What about our kids? What about childcare? 
Every psychologist understands, and many books and papers have been 
written on it, that the most formative years of a person's life are 
from 0 to 3. That is when their intellectual capabilities develop; that 
is when their emotional capabilities develop. Now, what are we doing 
for our kids in general and what are we doing with regard to childcare? 
At a time when working families in Vermont and all across this country 
are searching desperately for quality, affordable childcare, the Bush 
budget reduces the number of children receiving childcare assistance by 
300,000 kids. Mr. Bush tells us he believes no child should be left 
behind. By this proposal, however, he is not only leaving 300,000 
children behind, but, because of inadequate funding for childcare, he 
is denying millions of children the opportunities they need so they can 
succeed in school.

Amazingly, childcare fees today are higher than college tuition at a 
4-year public university in 42 States in this country. In other words, 
we have a major childcare crisis in America. The President needs an OMB 
Director to tell him and explain to him that you don't cut childcare 
when working families all over this country are desperately searching 
out affordable childcare. Will Mr. Nussle be doing that? I doubt that.

Madam President, what I wish to do at this time is reserve the 
remainder of my time. There are some other issues I want to raise 
regarding the nomination of Mr. Nussle, but I think the key point I 
want to make is that what this debate is about is do we need another 
OMB Director who continues to support and push policies which benefit 
the wealthiest people in this country at the expense of the vast 
majority of working families or do we need an OMB Director who will 
speak truth to power and who, in fact, explains to the American people 
the reality facing the economic lives of working families in this 
country.

There are some other points I want to make, Madam President, but I am 
going to reserve the remainder of my time at this point.