---
---

# HONORING SPECIALIST JOHNATHAN LAHMANN
## `ba8b3c0b6fb303e0544c9891da53afa9`
`Mr. PENCE — 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, the Old Book says if you owe debts, pay 
debts; if honor, then honor; if respect, then respect.

Today I rise to pay a debt of gratitude and honor for a Hoosier lost 
in Operation Iraqi Freedom. I was deeply saddened to learn of the loss 
of Specialist Johnathan Lahmann of Richmond, Indiana, from wounds 
suffered in Bayji, Iraq on Monday when a vehicle-borne improvised 
explosive device detonated near his vehicle.

Specialist Lahmann served in the 59th Engineering Company, 20th 
Engineer Battalion, 36th Engineer Brigade, part of the Army III Corp 
based in Fort Hood, Texas.

To be a U.S. Army soldier is to be a part of the strongest fighting 
force in the world. Specialist Lahmann embodied the American Army 
values of loyalty, duty, honor, respect, and selfless service. He 
continued that proud tradition as a combat engineer.

Specialist Lahmann was also the recipient of the Expert Rifleman 
Badge and Army Good Conduct Medal. And he will be posthumously awarded 
the Bronze Star and a Purple Heart, having died in the line of duty.

I rise to express my profound condolences to his parents, Alan 
Lahmann and Linda Lahmann, to family, neighbors and friends for the 
loss of this brave young man.

Eastern Indiana will never forget the service and sacrifice of 
Johnathan Lahmann. His name will be enshrined in the hearts of two 
grateful nations.
