---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ba944c3ba0d68935c84041cac69a0d9a`
`Mr. KING of New York — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. KING of New York. I thank the Speaker for his recognition and for 
his usual courtesy.

Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise today in opposition to the resolution. I have listened as 
carefully as I can for the past day and a half of debate, and it 
becomes clearer and clearer to me that those who were supporting this 
resolution, for whatever reason, are unwilling to accept the 
consequences of the words of this resolution, unwilling to accept the 
consequences of what could happen by the adoption of this resolution.

Yes, the resolution is meaningless. Yes, the resolution has no legal 
impact, but it does send a terrible message. It sends a terrible 
message to the world that the United States is losing a sense of 
resolution, if you will. It also sends a very cruel message, I believe, 
to the troops in the field, because while the resolution goes out of 
the way to say it supports the troops, at the very same time it is 
necessarily undermining the newly appointed commander of those troops. 
We hear from speaker after speaker who was speaking in support of the 
resolution that this is more of the same staying the course, this is a 
policy that cannot work.

But yet the newly designated commander, General Petraeus, who was 
unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate, is one of the 
architects of this policy. General Petraeus has stated that this policy 
can work, that he believes it will work.

Those of us who have been to Iraq and seen the outstanding work that 
General Petraeus has done, the 101st Airborne, we realize how committed 
he is. To me it sends such a mixed message to, on the one hand, have 
him unanimously confirmed as the new commander in the field, and yet at 
the same time to be attacking his credibility or his competency.

You can't have it both ways. You can't say he is the best man for the 
job, we have faith in him, and yet say the policy is wrong and it 
cannot work, and he says it will work and he is the architect of that 
policy. Think of the message we are sending to the troops. Think of the 
message we are sending to our allies in our region. Probably most 
importantly, think of the message we are sending to the enemy of the 
region.

I just heard the previous gentleman say that those of us who oppose 
the resolution want to stay the course. I would say that those who are 
supporting the resolution are the ones who want to stay the course. 
This is a significant new policy. General Petraeus has said it is a new 
policy, and it is a new policy.

The gentleman also said that we don't really have to worry about Iraq 
becoming a haven for terrorists because terrorists can attack us 
anywhere. He basically said you can do it from an apartment in Hamburg.

I would suggest that if the proponents of the resolution cannot 
appreciate the distinction between a hotel room in Hamburg and a 
sovereign state such as Iraq being occupied by terrorists, then they 
don't realize the impact that Afghanistan had, the fact that the 
Taliban allowed al Qaeda to have a sanctuary in Afghanistan, how it 
gave them a strong base of operations to carry out and plot the attacks 
of September 11.

Now, truly there are terrorists everywhere, Islamist terrorists 
throughout the world. They are certainly throughout the Middle East, 
the Philippines, Indonesia, Singapore, they are here in the United 
States, we know that, in Canada. But the fact is you try to take as 
many sanctuaries away from them if possible.

Iraq, if we did leave Iraq, and that, I believe, has to be the 
necessary outcome, the only logical conclusion of where this resolution 
will ultimately lead us, then we have a situation where we are talking 
about confronting Iran. Well, the Shiites in Iran will certainly have 
enormous influence in Iraq. Al Qaeda will have a sanctuary among the 
Sunnis in Iraq, and then we will have the situation in the north 
between the Kurds and the Turks. So the fact is no one more than those 
of us who oppose the resolution realize this is not the only 
battlefield, but it is a main battlefield.

Certainly al Qaeda believes it is important. That is why we have al 
Qaeda in Iraq. That is why al Qaeda has been carrying out attacks, that 
is why al Qaeda was there. That is why we are engaging in Anbar 
province. By the way, of the 21,000 additional troops, at least 4,000 
will be directly confronting al Qaeda in Anbar province.

These are all the issues I feel have not been in any way adequately 
or sufficiently addressed by the supporters of the resolution. Again, 
at a time when we have General Petraeus embarking on what I believe is 
a key turning point in the war, it is really irresponsible to even be 
considering voting for this resolution.

Now, another point, I know many speakers on my side want to be heard 
during the time that I will be controlling, but we, I think, have to 
address the issue of should Congress be getting involved in making 
strategic battlefield decisions.

I have researched this. I have not found one instance during the 
history of our country where the United States Congress has injected 
itself into battlefield decisions.

I was just thinking suppose we did this during World War II, and we 
had this situation with a small island in the Pacific, Iwo Jima, where 
almost 7,000 people were killed in less than 6 weeks, almost 26,000 
casualties. If we had 24-hour cable news, if we had a sense of disunity 
in the country, we would be bringing a resolution in the second or 
third week of the battle saying we already lost 2, 3, 4,000 troops, 
this one island, how can we have 10 to 15,000 casualties just in the 
first 2, 3 weeks.

But the fact is we have allowed the President, as Commander in Chief, 
and that is his constitutional responsibility. We voted for the war in 
the House. We voted for the war in the Senate. Once we do that, the 
Commander in Chief, I believe, strongly believe, has the constitutional 
authority and the right to be deciding exactly the tactical and 
strategic decisions.

If the Members of Congress want to cut off funding for the war, the 
fact is some of them may, then the fact is they should say that, not be 
coming in through the backdoor.

So I would urge my colleagues to realize the consequences of their 
action. You know, I spoke on the House floor yesterday, and after I was 
finished the speaker who followed me said I wish that the opponents of 
the resolution would just stick to the resolution itself.

I am more than willing to debate the resolution. I believe I have. 
The fact is I can see why they don't want to look at the consequences 
beyond the narrow language of that resolution, because it will have 
horrific consequences for the United States. Actions have consequences, 
words have consequences, and the words of this resolution will have 
terrible consequences for the United States, terrible consequences for 
all of us who oppose Islamic terrorism, and terrible consequences for 
our allies in the region and with whom we need support in the future.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

