---
---

# TRAUMA CARE SYSTEMS PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `ba95de20cf09f1bc15d55c6cd1031932`
`Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

I rise today in support of H.R. 727, legislation to reauthorize the 
Trauma Systems Planning and Development Act. This program, under the 
Public Health Service Act, was first authorized in 1990 to improve and 
coordinate trauma care in our country.

Since then, this program has provided $30 million to States to 
establish state-wide and regional trauma systems. Injury related to 
trauma is the leading cause of death for younger Americans, ages 1 
through 44. Trauma also causes more than 300,000 permanent disabilities 
each year.

For seriously injured individuals, the first hour after an injury is 
when medical care is most effective in saving lives and function. This 
hour is also often referred to as the ''golden hour,'' during which 
trauma and emergency systems must respond both quickly and efficiently.

This golden hour is also the goal that our military has for getting 
medical attention to our soldiers injured on the battlefield. The 
military has an impressive, streamlined trauma system that my 
colleagues Dr. Burgess; our ranking member at that time, Congressman 
Deal from Georgia; and our late colleague Dr. Norwood from Georgia and 
I marveled at during our trip last summer to Iraq, where we toured the 
military's trauma facilities in Balad.

Unfortunately, the military's trauma system is not replicated in 
civilian health care, and too many Americans do not benefit from trauma 
systems that facilitate medical intervention during this critical time 
frame.

While the death rate from trauma is 50 percent higher in rural areas 
than in urban locations, trauma affects each corner of this country. In 
fact, nearly 25 percent of all Americans sustain injuries each year 
that require medical attention. Yet without coordinated trauma systems 
and quick access to care, injuries are too often fatal.

In Houston, we learned this lesson the hard way when the lack of 
trauma


coordination forced a young man to wait more than 4 hours to receive 
care after he was hit by a car on Halloween night in 2001. With serious 
head, chest and leg injuries, this patient was clearly medically 
unstable and should have received immediate care at one of Houston's 
two level-one trauma centers. But with the trauma centers increasingly 
on diversion, this young man was transported to Austin where he died 
the next day.

It was clear that we needed better trauma systems in the Houston 
area, and we quickly learned that the problem was felt throughout our 
Nation. We also learned that the effective trauma systems would help 
prevent nearly 25,000 deaths each year.

As a response, we developed this legislation to build on the 
program's initial success since 1990, and we authorized it through 
2012.

This bill includes changes to the program to ensure that scarce 
health care dollars go to the communities most in need, ensuring that 
Federal funds are utilized to strengthen trauma systems and improve 
communication and coordination among different trauma systems.

It specifically ensures that grants go to States that coordinate 
planning for trauma systems with State disaster emergency planning and 
bioterrorism hospital preparedness planning.

In addition, this legislation would require the Secretary to update 
the model plan for the designation of trauma centers and set triage, 
transfer, and transportation policies.

The legislation also reauthorizes the Residency Training Program in 
Emergency Medicine in an effort to ensure an adequate level of ER 
physicians to treat patients in need of care from America's trauma 
centers.

I would like to thank Mr. Burgess from Texas for his leadership on 
this legislation and for helping to craft the compromise before us 
today.

I would also like to thank Chairman Dingell and our Health 
Subcommittee Chairman Pallone for their interest in this issue. We have 
been working on this bill for 5 years.

Until now, this important issue failed to receive the attention it 
deserved, so I appreciate my chairman including this bill on our first 
markup in this Congress.

I also appreciate the hard work that John Ford, William Garner and 
Pete Goodloe of the committee staff put in to guide this bill through 
the committee to ensure that we have a consensus product to approve 
today, and also my own staff who has worked on this for at least 3 
years.



I also appreciate the support of the American College of Surgeons, 
the American Osteopathic Association, the American Academy of 
Pediatrics, the American Association of Neurological Surgeons, the 
American Trauma Society, the Coalition for American Trauma Care and the 
Emergency Nurses Association.

The members of these groups are on the front lines and know that 
coordinated trauma systems can literally save lives. We thank them for 
all they do for our communities.

I urge my colleagues to vote for this important legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.