---
---

# DISCONTINUING BUSINESS AS USUAL
## `baa12758cafe72505168f7fbb0a1ad88`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I wish to follow up on the exchange 
between the Senator from New Hampshire and the Senator from Texas in a 
different context. I am sure the theatrics of this morning are 
entertaining for a few. But for me, they are illustrative of how a 
broken Congress has real ramifications for the people of the State of 
Georgia. I hold this seat in the Senate because a majority of Georgians 
sent me here to vote on their behalf and act on their behalf. But the 
way in which this session has been managed, the way in which certain 
pieces of legislation have been managed, the way in which we even are 
debating this morning in 3 hours of morning business when we should be 
on the farm bill is causing


pain and suffering to the people I represent. I wish to put meat on 
those bones.

First, I wish to talk about the veterans bill mentioned by the 
distinguished Senator from Texas, a bill nobody here really objected to 
but some objected to and kept it from coming to the floor. It still has 
not come. It has been objected to this morning. What is the 
ramification of that on Georgians? The VA hospital in Atlanta, GA, on 
Claremont Road is a great VA hospital that has been there for years. It 
has been in terrible need of repair. Three years ago, the Congress 
authorized and appropriated the money to remodel all the floors of the 
VA hospital in Atlanta, where today hundreds of veterans of Operation 
Iraqi Freedom, all the way back to the Korean war, are being attended 
to. In the last 3 years, three of those floors were redone, but they 
didn't get the other three done, and they are waiting to be done.

The money, $20.552 million, is in the bank, but the authorization 
that was passed 3 years ago has expired. As the Chair knows, we don't 
appropriate without an authorization. We are not supposed to. And if we 
don't have an authorization, the money is frozen. The ramifications of 
holding the veterans bill to real Americans, real Georgians, real 
heroes who served this country in uniform is that those floors set to 
be remodeled in a hospital for veterans sit there unremodeled. The new 
equipment, new technology, everything that is in there for veterans is 
held. The money is in the bank, already appropriated. All we to have do 
is the authorization. It is in a bill nobody objects to when you talk 
to them. But continuously it is objected to on the floor of the Senate.

I wish to talk about the ramifications of messaging. There is a new 
technique we are using now. Instead of sending back a conference report 
to which a point of order can be raised--I know that is technical 
jargon--you send a message. You either have to vote up or down. You 
don't have a chance to amend or to make a point of order. Let's take 
the Energy bill going back and forth akin to a ping-pong ball. Most 
recently it came to us as a message, unamendable and no point of order, 
and we can't debate the dirty little secret that the renewable 
portfolio standard in the Energy bill benefits certain parts of the 
United States and is punitive to others. I happen to represent one of 
those States to which it is punitive. How punitive is it? It is so 
punitive that by 2020 it will have cost the ratepayers in the State of 
Georgia to the Southern Company and to the EMCs in our State $8.2 
billion. So the tactic being used does not allow me to make that point 
on the floor or make a point of order or bring it to debate but asks 
all of us to agree to a proposition that would impose that much damage 
on the people I represent. That is the ramification of a broken 
Congress on real people, real Georgians.

I understand the omnibus bill is coming to us as a message as well. 
There is an amendment in the omnibus bill which is punitive to the 
State of Georgia. It has been put in outside the process of the 
committee system and outside the process of debate. I am not going to 
have a chance to even raise a point of order on that particular 
amendment. In fact, as the Senator from New Hampshire observed, we 
didn't pass but one appropriations bill by the time the new fiscal year 
took place. We have been going back and forth because, instead, we 
spent most of the year debating 62 separate votes on whether to 
withdraw our troops from Iraq. In fact, I find it sad that in the 6 
months that debate has been going on, the surge has worked by 
everybody's definition. Progress in Iraq has been of a tremendous 
advantage. The men and women who have sacrificed and accomplished it 
and are fighting there today are looking at us playing games with the 
money to fund the military. It is not only wrong, it is sad. It is time 
we had an appropriations process that worked in the Senate, not one 
that is broken.

It is time we looked at ideas such as Senator Domenici's biennial 
budget, where you appropriate in odd-numbered years and you do 
oversight in even-numbered years. Wouldn't it be fun to see an even-
numbered year election for Congress or President where the debate 
wasn't on what I was going to appropriate to make you happy but instead 
the savings I was going to find to make our country run better? 
Senator Domenici, who is leaving us at the end of next year, has a 
great proposition. It ought to go. We ought to be appropriating money 
by the time the fiscal year starts.


The real effect on real Georgians with the process now is that in 
December of 2007, in the first quarter of the fiscal year 2008, we have 
Government appropriations policy based on an appropriations bill passed 
in 2006. The body of knowledge doubles every 7 years. We are still 2 
years behind on our appropriations process. Why? Because of the 
dilatory tactics, because of thematic debates, and all because one side 
wants to leverage against another, to the detriment of real people.

Lastly, I wish to talk about the real damage of a broken Congress on 
the appointment process. In today's Executive Calendar, there is a list 
of any number of appointees to any number of positions in the 
Government--judicial appointees, Department of Homeland Security 
appointees, Tennessee Valley Authority appointees, hazardous and 
chemical waste oversight board appointees. All those appointees have 
come out of committee; some of them from the committee I am on, 
Environment and Public Works. They have testified before the committee. 
They have been subjected to questions. They have been thoroughly 
vetted, and they have been voted out of committee; in the case of EPW, 
voted out unanimously.

Last Thursday, there was a move to pass this list, still on the 
calendar, by unanimous consent. Remember, all these appointees have 
gone through the committee process. They have been vetted. They have 
been voted on. They have testified. They have subjected themselves to 
all the questions we could possibly ask. Yet there was an objection 
last week. So what is the pain and suffering to the American people? In 
those four States where judges were asked to be approved, they continue 
to have a backlog of criminal cases, a backlog of critical cases.

To me and the Members of this body who represent areas that are 
served by the Tennessee Valley Authority, Congress finally fixed the 
TVA 2 years ago, got it under new management, into a good system, ran 
it like a business, appointed a significant board, and now it is time 
to reappoint three of those members or reappoint two and add one new 
one from Georgia, I might add. What happens? Somebody says: I object. 
We are objecting to the American people's business, are objecting to 
the progress of what this Government was set up to do.

The broken Congress of 2008 has real consequences, not for me but for 
the people of my State. I will stay until Christmas or New Year's and 
repeat what I have said until somebody throws the light switch and 
understands the games we are playing don't affect us; they affect the 
people who sent us. In the case of the four examples I have given, they 
affect them negatively.

To that point, I would like to make two unanimous consent requests. 
The first one is going to be with regard to the TVA board. I wish to 
repeat one thing I said. They all were approved unanimously. Two of 
them are reappointments. They are all fine people. TVA has reduced its 
debt under new management. Congress worked hard to pass this 2 years 
ago. It is time to have these people seated and working.

I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to executive session 
to consider the following nominations: Calendar Nos. 404, 405, and 406; 
these are three nominations to be members of the board of directors of 
the Tennessee Valley Authority. I ask consent that these pending 
nominations be confirmed en bloc, the motions to reconsider be laid 
upon the table, and that the President be immediately notified of the 
Senate's action. I finally ask consent that the Senate then resume 
legislative session.