---
---

# None
## `bab3997b31126fc8add640d1bdeb58cd`
`Mr. THUNE — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. THUNE. My colleague from Arizona, for whom I have the greatest 
respect--and I have had the opportunity to travel a couple of different 
times to Iraq with you. I know you have been back since then and have 
seen the marked improvement in that region.

I know from having traveled there on several different occasions and 
having seen the progress that has taken place and talked with the 
troops on the ground, those who are there now and those who have been 
there, as I visit with them, both in my State and different places 
around the country, it is very clear that they view this to be a 
disconnect. They are very frustrated at the fact, as I said--the 
soldier whose funeral I attended, the green beret who was killed 
kicking down a door and was shot by an al-Qaida insurgent, before that 
happened expressed to his family the incredible progress he had noted 
and the fact that does not get adequately covered back here.

I think that is a fair statement. The letter, the e-mail I read from 
the marine here that I just received in the last couple of days said 
the very same thing. Watching the news, listening to the briefings, or 
going and visiting for a couple of days to the war-torn nation is not 
an experience. He believes that we--as do I--that we ought to let our 
commanders make decisions with regard to our effort there.

I would also add that I believe General Petraeus, in whom I have 
great confidence, will be very candid when he comes before the Congress 
in September, and I think we ought to give him and our troops an 
opportunity to succeed. The strategy has just been fully implemented as 
the troops have arrived there just recently. In my view it would be 
premature to do something which would undermine their efforts, and I 
think the debate we are having here on this particular amendment would 
do just that, if it is successful.

So I hope my colleagues will see their way to do the right thing for 
our troops, listen to the judgment of our commanders, listen to what 
our troops are saying, listen to what our enemies are saying, because I 
think that is a very relevant point as well. Look at what Zawahari and 
bin Ladin are saying about Iraq and its importance. They realize full 
well that this is where the battle line is drawn.

So I will, as we get to the final vote tomorrow at 11 clock on 
cloture, I will be voting against cloture.