---
---

# SENATE RULES CHANGE
## `babb5d6f2df248825325a3262c4934c4`
`Mr. SPECTER — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Madam President, I turn to the subject of submitting a 
resolution which I spoke about yesterday, and I do formally submit the 
resolution at this time. This resolution will eliminate the practice of 
filling the tree, which means there is a procedure to eliminate the 
opportunity of a Senator to offer an amendment.

This is a particularly problemsome week for the Senate. We are on 
Thursday, and twice this week action has


been taken in the Senate, on two separate matters, to foreclose 
Senators from offering amendments. I spoke on Monday and again 
yesterday on the subject of U.S. policy in Iraq, and we have a bill 
which has been offered by Senator Levin, and the majority leader was 
expected to fill the tree, if given an opportunity to do so. No denial 
has been made of that practice, which was anticipated by the majority 
leader.

A motion to proceed is a debatable motion under Senate rules. When 
you have a matter as important as the Iraq war, there ought to be very 
careful consideration given by the Senate--reputed to be the world's 
greatest deliberative body. Immediately upon taking up the bill, the 
majority leader filed a cloture motion. It was kind of odd, even for 
people not versed in Senate procedure, to bring up a bill which is 
debatable and immediately to file a motion to cut off debate, but that 
was what was done.

On the Republican side, there was an interest in having alternative 
resolutions, ideas considered--by Senator McCain, to support the surge 
with benchmarks; by Senator Warner, to express opposition to a surge of 
21,500; and by Senator Gregg, to have a resolution which would deal 
with the prohibition against funding for the troops--which obviously 
nobody wants to do. The troops are in harm's way. We are not going to 
cut off funding.

But behind the scenes what was happening was negotiations between 
Senator Reid and Senator McConnell--the agreement could not be reached 
giving the Republicans a fair opportunity to offer alternative 
resolutions, so almost all Republicans joined together to reject the 
cloture motion and keep the debate going.

It is not understood in America what is happening because it is 
arcane, it is esoteric, it is unintelligible--they can't figure it out. 
But the popular view, the public perception was the Republicans were 
trying to protect the President, to cut off debate on the Iraq policy 
and not to have a vote. That, simply stated, was not true.

I have been on the record for some time, expressing my skepticism 
about the surge position. There is no doubt that Senator Warner opposes 
the President's position because he is the author of the resolution to 
express disapproval on the surge position. He voted against cloture. No 
doubt, Senator Hagel was against the President's proposal. He has been 
the most severe critic of the President's proposal. Senator Hagel also 
voted against cloture, as did almost all Republicans. But the 
perception was the Republicans were trying to block debate in the 
consideration of the resolution of disapproval.

After I announced my intention to introduce this rule change, I went 
to the third floor, to the press gallery, to sit down with the 
reporters to explain and to answer questions, to try to get a public 
discussion on what was happening. One of the reporters from the wire 
services commented that no story was written about it because it 
couldn't be explained to anybody beyond the beltway. It could not be 
explained.

Two of the newspapers on Capitol Hill carried brief stories about it, 
but the matter has been dropped. Republicans have lost the public 
relations battle. The issue will be taken up in the House. Maybe it 
will be reconsidered in the Senate. But this procedure of allowing the 
majority leader to stop alternative considerations is inappropriate and 
unfair.

There are some pretty good authorities for the proposition that this 
procedure is inappropriate. I wish to cite three very distinguished 
Senators: Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader; Senator Richard 
Durbin, the assistant majority leader; and Senator Chris Dodd, Democrat 
from Connecticut. As I said yesterday, this business about filling the 
tree has been practiced by both parties. The Congressional Research 
Service did a study that showed that going back to Senator Dole in the 
1985-1986 Congress, every majority leader has used this procedure--
Senator Dole, Senator Byrd, Senator Mitchell, Senator Lott, Senator 
Daschle, Senator Frist, and now Senator Reid, twice in 1 week. In the 
fifth week of the new session, it is twice already being used. So that 
Democrats and Republicans are equally at fault. If people want to know 
whom to blame in Washington, it is a pretty good conclusion it is 
equally divided, that the bickering is the responsibility of both 
parties--a plague on both houses.

But when we Republicans controlled the Senate and we had the PATRIOT 
Act, Senator Reid had this to say on February 28 of last year. He was 
speaking in defense of a fellow Democrat's ability to offer amendments 
to the PATRIOT Act reauthorization. This is what Senator Reid said:




 Of course, even a good bill can be improved. That is why we 


 have an amendment process in the Senate . . . I am 


 disappointed that he has been denied that opportunity by a 


 procedural maneuver known as ''filling the amendment tree.''



 This is a very bad practice. It runs against the basic 


 nature of the Senate. The hallmark of the Senate is free 


 speech and open debate. Rule XXII establishes a process for 


 cutting off debate and amendments, but Rule XXII should 


 rarely be invoked before any amendments have been offered.


That is what Senator Reid said less than a year ago. I couldn't say 
it better. In fact, I couldn't say it as well.

Then, a few days later on March 2, Senator Reid said this:




 Don't fill the tree. This is a bad way, in my opinion, to 


 run the Senate.


Then Senator Durbin spoke on May 11 of 2006 on the tax increase 
prevention and reconciliation act. Speaking about that conference 
report, this is what Senator Durbin had to say:




 The Republican majority brings a bill to the Senate, fills 


 the tree so no amendments can be offered, and then files 


 cloture, which stops debate. So we cannot have this 


 conversation. We cannot offer amendments.


Well, that is exactly the plan for the Iraq issue, and that is what 
is being done now on the continuing resolution which has been filed.

Senator Dole had this to say, speaking about health care legislation:




 I want to point out to our colleagues why I am terribly 


 disappointed with the procedures we have been confronted with 


 this evening dealing with this legislation . . . This is the 


 Senate. This Chamber historically is the place where debate 


 occurs. To have a process here this evening . . . to 


 basically lock out any amendments that might be offered to 


 this proposal runs contrary to the very essence of this body 


 . . . If you believe the Senate ought to be heard on a 


 variety of issues relating to the subject matter--when the 


 amendment tree has been entirely filled, then obviously we 


 are dealing with a process that ought not to be . . . the 


 Senate ought to be a place where we can offer amendments, 


 have healthy debate over a reasonable time, and then come to 


 closure on the subject matter.


Well, Arlen Specter doesn't have to say anything more on the subject 
because Senator Reid, Senator Durbin, and Senator Dodd are much more 
eloquent than I. So I offer this resolution to correct this problem for 
the future. It is very hard to change a Senate rule, but nobody has 
proposed it in the past, to my knowledge, and today we will start on 
it.

Beyond the procedure used by the majority leader, the leader of the 
Democrats, to shut off debate and consideration of alternative 
proposals on the Iraq policy, the majority leader has utilized the 
procedure again on the continuing resolution.

Now the continuing resolution characteristically is a brief document, 
usually about a page, which says the Government will continue to 
operate under existing appropriations, since there has not been time to 
consider a new appropriations package. But what we have in H.J. Res. 20 
is an omnibus bill running 137 pages. I want to have an opportunity to 
amend it. Other Senators want to have an opportunity to amend it. Some 
have spoken on the floor of the Senate here today. But we are 
foreclosed from doing so.

When the announcement was made that we were going to go to this kind 
of a procedure, in my capacity as chairman last year, now ranking 
member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education, I wrote a letter to Senator Reid asking that 
we follow regular order and consider the appropriation bills 
sequentially. I sent identical letters to Speaker Pelosi, the 
Republican leader, Boehner, in the House, Senator McConnell, Senator 
Byrd, Representative Obey, Representative Lewis, and Senator Cochran, 
the leaders of both bodies and the chairmen and ranking members of both 
Appropriations Committees. Because if we had the will; we had the time; 
we had the way, to get it all done. But the leadership has chosen not 
to follow that path, and now we have a continuing resolution which does 
not allow for any amendments. That is not in the public interest.



After having been in the Senate for 26 years and being on the 
Appropriations Committee for 26 years, I have turned into a 
rubberstamp. That is what the Senators are here, those who did not have 
a say in the preparation of this continuing resolution. We are all 
rubberstamps: Take it or leave it. Now we would employ the procedure 
used on the Iraqi issue to avoid cutting off debate, but the Treasury 
will run out of money at midnight on February 15--that is Thursday 
night--so we have the option of closing down the Government if we don't 
approve this rubberstamp procedure, and we are not going to do that. We 
had experience with the closing down of the Government back in December 
of 1995, and it was a very bitter experience; great political peril in 
closing down the Government.

Here we have a very important measure. For a few minutes I want to 
point out what has happened to the subcommittee which funds health 
care, which is our No. 1 capital asset; you can't do anything if you 
don't have good health, and I can testify to that personally from my 
own experience in the last 2 years. Secondly, education. If you are not 
trained, you can't do anything, even with good health. The Department 
of Labor on job training and worker safety. The level of the budget for 
fiscal year 2005 was $143.4 billion. The President has proposed a 
budget for fiscal year 2008 of $141.5 billion. If you take a look at 
the cuts in the budget for Health, Education and Labor and you add in 
the inflationary factors, the committee is being asked to operate at a 
level of $14.7 billion less than the fiscal year 2005 budget. That 
simply is inadequate to take care of the National Institutes of Health, 
offering the greatest chance through medical research to find cures for 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and cancer and heart disease; funding for 
Head Start, funding for Title I, funding for education programs, 
funding for job training. It simply is totally insufficient.

Those are the kinds of matters we ought to address on this continuing 
resolution. That is what we ought to be talking about, instead of 
having our last vote before noon on a Thursday as part of our 5-day 
workweek. We have yet to see that; we have yet to take the time we need 
to consider these matters. Had we taken up these appropriations bills 
in regular order, as I asked the leadership back on January 10, we 
would have had adequate time to do so.

It is my hope that one day, and hopefully sooner rather than later, 
the Senate will change its rules so the majority leader will not be 
able to create a procedural morass to stop Senators from introducing 
amendments. It is my hope Senator Reid's admonitions when the shoe was 
on the other foot back last year, that filling the tree is a bad 
practice, it runs against the basic nature of the Senate, the hallmark 
of the Senate is free speech and open debate, and similar comments by 
Senator Durbin and Senator Dodd, that we will be able to have a process 
so when an issue such as Iraq comes before the Senate, we can function 
as a deliberative body and we can have debate; we can consider 
alternative matters, and we can decide what U.S. policy should be. 
Because the President is not the sole decider. It is a shared 
responsibility; that when we have a budget and a resolution to fund the 
U.S. Government, we are not shut out from offering amendments.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be 
printed in the Record.