---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `bac55d30a658aa69b6eb1499c2d27545`
`Mr. SKELTON — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, it is a privilege to share this body and 
this floor with the remarkable gentleman from Texas. I applaud him for 
his patriotism, his courage, and commitment to America.

Madam Speaker, we have had a long debate on this resolution. I have 
listened to critics, and I find it quite interesting that the criticism 
is focused almost exclusively on what this resolution doesn't say, 
rather than what it does.

Let me review, if I may. The resolution says two simple things: We 
support the troops completely, wholeheartedly, now and in the future; 
and we disapprove of the White House's plan to deploy more than 20,000 
additional combat troops to Iraq.

That is what we are voting on today, and nothing said on this floor 
or in this Chamber will change the fact that that is what is before us.

I oppose the President's plan because it will embroil our troops even 
more deeply in a sectarian conflict. Some call this conflict a civil 
war, some call this more complicated than a civil war, and, either way, 
it is a conflict we cannot resolve and which ultimately cannot be 
resolved militarily.

The President's plan to deploy more troops is simply not the answer. 
It cannot fix the three irretrievable mistakes made in 2003 when the 
administration insisted on de-Baathification, dissolving the Iraqi 
army, and shutting down the state-run industries, throwing hundreds of 
thousands of Iraqis out of work and creating untold numbers of 
insurgents.

The President's plan hastily put together is insufficient in a number 
of ways:

It is insufficient in the requirements for progress it places on the 
Iraqi political system, the true center of gravity in this whole 
conflict.

It is insufficient in the support it provides to our combat forces 
both in terms of equipment as well as support forces.

And it is insufficient in the amount of training time it allows for 
deploying units.

As a result, under the President's plan, U.S. military forces will be 
less ready to go into during and after this troop increase; and, sadly, 
they could be stretched to the point of breaking. To the point of 
breaking.

Now, finally, I oppose the White House's plan because it will 
heighten the already unacceptable level of strategic risk currently 
facing our Nation,


strategic risk that exists because our military is overcommited in Iraq 
and is ill-equipped and ill-positioned to respond to emerging crises 
elsewhere in the world. And this worries me, it worries me deeply.

I have been privileged to serve here in Congress slightly over 30 
years, and over that time 12 significant military contingencies have 
occurred in which our military have been involved. Each of them 
occurred in an unexpected place and at an unexpected time. It will 
happen again. Right now, we are not prepared as we should be for an 
unforeseen military threat. That worries me.

Unfortunately, it is the magnificent, wonderful, courageous men and 
women of our military who will pay the price for that failure.

Madam Speaker, we must send the White House a message that cannot be 
ignored; and that is why we are here today. I urge that we pass the 
Skelton-Lantos-Jones resolution.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.