---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `bac9b1daf64bbf3eb8e3b77b2981523d`
`Mr. INOUYE — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Madam President, I would like to say a few words on a few 
of the contentious issues before us.

The administration requested $7.4 billion for the Afghanistan 
security forces fund in fiscal year 2010. This is an increase of $1.8 
billion over fiscal year 2009 levels. This is to continue to train and 
equip the Afghan National Army and the Afghan National Police.

The committee was informed by officials of the Department of Defense 
that $1.8 billion of this request would not be spent until fiscal year 
2011. I would like to repeat that. This amount will not be spent until 
2011. And there was $1.9 billion remaining from the fiscal year 2009 
appropriations.

At the same time, the committee was also aware of a validated urgent 
but unfunded requirement from the Department of Defense for additional 
all-terrain MRAP vehicles for our troops in Afghanistan, something that 
the military has been asking for with great urgency.

Recognizing that these funds would not be obligated until fiscal year 
2011--the funds I mentioned earlier--and were not required for long 
lead equipment of infrastructure projects, the committee transferred 
$900 million from the Afghan security forces fund to the MRAP fund to 
pay for this urgent requirement.

The redirecting of funds was not an attempt to curtail our efforts to 
train and equip the Afghan security forces. It was solely based on the 
Department's ability to execute the required resources during fiscal 
year 2010 and the urgent unfunded and validated requirement to procure 
additional all-terrain MRAPs for our troops in Afghanistan.

There is a tremendous amount of debate in both the Halls of Congress 
and the Pentagon over the size of the Afghan security forces--how fast 
they can be trained, equipped, and executing missions independent of 
coalition forces.

While many would like to grow the Afghan security forces beyond the 
current plan, the Department of Defense has not been able to say that 
they can absorb additional resources in fiscal year 2010 or that they 
can source additional trainers to reach these new levels. This is a 
situation where, yes, we need the money, but we cannot spend it. We 
want you to appropriate it so we can leave it in the bank. That is a 
hell of a way to run the government.

Since 2005, Congress has appropriated nearly $19 billion for the 
training and equipping of the Afghan security forces. These funds have 
greatly increased over the years, starting from $1.3 billion in fiscal 
year 2005 to $5.6 billion in fiscal year 2009 to $7.4 billion in fiscal 
year 2010.

Of the $5.6 billion appropriated in the last fiscal year, nearly $1.9 
billion remains unobligated, and the Department of Defense does not 
anticipate obligating these funds until July of 2010.

The $7.4 billion fiscal year 2010 request for the Afghan security 
forces fund is projected to obligate $5.6 billion in fiscal year 2010 
and $1.8 billion in the next fiscal year, 2011.

The Afghan security forces fund is a 2-year funding account to enable 
long lead equipment procurement and infrastructure projects that 
obligate over a 2-year period. The funds transferred from the Afghan 
security forces trust fund to meet the urgent operational requirement 
of additional all-terrain MRAPs for Afghanistan were taken from 
sustainment requirements of the Afghan National Army and the Afghan 
National Police which would have been obligated in fiscal year 2011 and 
do not require long lead appropriations. We took money they did not 
need or can use.

Areas funded through the sustainment program include fuels, salary, 
incentive pay, clothing, individual equipment, rental equipment--all of 
which do not require long lead time. Therefore, the fiscal year 2010 
sustainment request for the Afghan National Army is a 45-percent 
increase over 2009 and a 108-percent increase over fiscal year 2009 for 
the Afghan National Police.

Even with the decrease in this fund, there is substantial flexibility 
and resources in the Afghan security forces fund to meet unanticipated 
requirements of the security forces and to expedite the growth of the 
Afghan National Army and Afghan National Police.

Madam President, I decided to share these numbers with my colleagues 
to make certain they know the committee has acted on this very 
carefully. When we were convinced that the Department of Defense could 
not use that money, we decided to use it for some other more urgent 
purpose.

I should point out once again this bill was passed by the committee, 
made up of Democrats and Republicans, conservatives and liberals, by a 
vote of 30 to 0. Unanimous.

I yield the floor.