---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `bacaf47df90266d4786060b93450367b`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 2 May 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. I thank the gentleman from California.

Mr. Speaker, last month, a member of the majority leadership stated, 
''This war is lost, and the surge has not accomplishing anything.'' He 
further stated, ''We are going to pick up Senate seats as a result of 
this war,'' and adding that he had been shown numbers that are 
compelling and astounding.



I cannot imagine that there were many in either party who were not 
shocked by these brazenly cynical words.

This past Saturday, I sat down with Phyllis and Huber Parsons, 
constituents from my congressional district who have three sons serving 
in Baghdad. They are pictured here in the poster behind me. They are 
officers with the Army Stryker Brigade. They said to me that remarks 
such as the ones that I just quoted by our congressional leaders ''made 
them sick.'' Their sons, Charlie, Huber and Bill, are not bullets to be 
used to hit a political target. And while some of my colleagues may not 
agree with the administration's efforts to win the battle against 
Islamic jihadists in Iraq, the Parsons brothers should not be abandoned 
without ammunition to defend themselves.

My stepson, Doug, and my daughter-in-law, Lindsay, both served in 
Iraq. Lindsay is now in Afghanistan. They were not following the orders 
of would-be generals here in Congress. They were serving their country 
and their President, whom the Constitution clearly states is the 
commander-in-chief.

Not one of us here in Congress can usurp that role. Nor can we fill 
the role of General David Petraeus, who bears the enormous burden of 
directing this war and who has said that our mission is just and 
necessary.

These men and women of our Armed Forces, such as the Parsons brothers 
and my stepson and daughter-in-law, understand their mission. They 
understand that they are locked in a generational struggle with global 
Islamic radicals who seek our destruction. If we declare that we have 
been beaten in this phase of the struggle and then retreat, it will 
only grow, it will follow us home, and it may never end.

Imposing a timetable for withdrawal of our forces and retreating over 
the horizon, as some have suggested, will not insulate us from the 
terrible strategic consequences that would result. This fighting will 
spill into neighboring countries, threaten our allies and then spread 
throughout the Middle East.

In addition to these frightening strategic consequences, if we 
surrender the Iraqi nation to the terrorists, we would open the gates 
to a potential humanitarian crisis of epic proportions, including mass 
murder and displacements of thousands and thousands of innocent Iraqi 
men, women and children that our retreat helped make possible.

Let me remind the advocates of defeat of the words of one of our 
former presidents who battled against the legions of those who sought 
to block his efforts to save democracy for this country and for the 
world. He said, ''This generation of Americans has a rendezvous with 
destiny. In this world of ours, there are some people, who seem to have 
grown too weary to carry on the fight. I believe in my heart that only 
our success can stir their ancient hope. They begin to know that here 
in America we are waging a great and successful war. It is a war for 
the survival of democracy.''

These are the words of Franklin Roosevelt, and I think were he here 
today, I am confident that he would never give in to those who say that 
we have lost and who demand that we retreat.

I ask my colleagues to uphold the President's veto and demand a clean 
supplemental to support our troops in the field, to give Bill, Charlie 
and Huber Parsons the resources they need to achieve victory in Iraq.