# NATIONAL BOMBING PREVENTION ACT OF 2009
## `bad47ecad348fd0392e431cf0aac64c2`
`Mr. OLSON — 3 February 2009`

---


Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

This bill authorizes the Office of Bombing Prevention within the 
Department of Homeland Security. In previous Congresses, it passed on 
suspension with bipartisan support.

This office will provide the necessary analysis and coordination of 
our Nation's bomb prevention capability to best protect our citizens 
from the threat posed by explosive materials.

We only need to look at terrorist activities overseas to understand 
that conventional and improvised explosive devices are a terrorist's 
weapon of choice to target military and civilians.

Within the United States, we have been subject to our own share of 
explosive attacks, including the 1993 World Trade Center bombings, the 
1995 Oklahoma City bombing, the Centennial Olympic Park bombing, and 
others.

State and local authorities have developed the capabilities to 
respond to potential explosive threats and to neutralize them. Yet 
without the office established in this bill, there would be no analysis 
of our nationwide capability to respond to explosive threats, or where 
gaps exist in training, equipment, and personnel against a national 
baseline. This analysis will assist State and local officials in 
applying for homeland security grants to fill these gaps.

Further, this legislation will authorize the office to continue to 
promote information sharing and IED security awareness through advanced 
bomb prevention techniques and usable information.

The office uses a secure Web site, known as ''TRIPwire,'' to provide 
to bomb prevention officials across the country access to current 
terrorist IED tactics, techniques and procedures, along with expert 
analysis and reports, making it a one-stop shop for actionable 
information.

I previously mentioned our troops' experience with IEDs in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. This legislation instructs the Secretary of Homeland 
Security to work closely with the Department of Defense to take 
advantage of what our troops have learned on the battlefield, both in 
tactics and technology, to improve the capability of our first 
responders here at home.

Preventing a bomb from going off should involve more than just those 
first responders attempting to neutralize the threat once the bomb has 
been placed. Education and awareness programs regarding the threat of 
IEDs are also a piece of this legislation, providing information on 
explosive precursors to merchants who can recognize suspicious 
purchases.

The continued need for the Office of Bombing Prevention is clear. It 
is important to note that this office is not designed to replace 
existing elements of counter-explosive expertise already found in the 
Federal Government, but to assist and coordinate State, local, and 
tribal capability. In fact, the National Tactical Officers Association 
supports this legislation.

By supporting H.R. 549, we take another step in upholding our 
responsibility to protect the lives and livelihood of American 
citizens.

I reserve the balance of my time.