# None
## `bad6b4c272bb81f921de3415b04d52c7`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 29 July 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and in support of the 
fiscal year 2010 Defense appropriations bill, which the House will take 
up shortly. With the passage of this bill, we will have completed all 
of our appropriations bills, and we will have successfully overcome 
Republican obstructionism and attempts to undermine the legislative 
process. So I think this is good news for the people of the country 
that we are actually getting our work done, which is something that 
they were not able to do very successfully.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3326, by and large, is a good bill. It provides 
support for our military families, and it provides our troops with the 
funding and the equipment they need to successfully perform their 
duties and to carry out their assigned missions.

I want to congratulate Chairman Murtha and Ranking Member Young for 
their bipartisan work on this bill, but, Mr. Speaker, I do not support 
this bill without significant reservations.

I believe that this Congress has not yet come to grips with what our 
policy is in Afghanistan. This House recently passed an emergency 
supplemental appropriations bill that provides billions and billions of 
dollars for the war in Afghanistan, a measure that I opposed, but I 
believed then, as I do now, that it is a mistake to spend billions and 
billions of dollars more for a war that has no clearly defined mission.

My concern deepened when I recently read reports that indicated that 
General McChrystal believes we will have to expand our forces and, 
thereby, expand our mission in Afghanistan, meaning more money and more 
troops right now just to get the job started. I still have this sinking 
feeling in the pit of my stomach that we're getting sucked into 
something where the mission and goals are vague and where it is unclear 
how it will end.

Mr. Speaker, that's why we need an exit strategy. We need a clear 
definition of when this policy comes to an end and when our troops can 
come home, not a date certain but an explanation as to when the 
military part of this operation comes to a close. I remain skeptical 
about our policy in Afghanistan. I think this administration needs to 
provide Congress, this Nation and our military families with more 
clarity on this issue. If they don't, I believe Congress needs to 
demand it.

Like all of my colleagues, I have had many conversations with the men 
and women who serve in Iraq and Afghanistan--sometimes when they are 
about to deploy, sometimes when they have just come home, sometimes 
when they come to my district office, and often because we just run 
into one another at a coffee shop, at a diner, at a community center or 
on the street. I believe that we owe them a great deal for their 
service. We owe them the respect of looking them in the eye and of 
telling them that we know exactly what we are doing when we vote for 
money and missions that will send them directly into harm's way--
someplace from where they may not return safe and sound to their 
families and to their loved ones.



I'm not asking for a protest vote on this bill. On this day, I intend 
to support the bill.