---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `badb1226ae8a65a9470b279474a51e61`
`Mr. REED — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. REED. Madam President, I rise in support of the Lieberman-McCain 
amendment. I commend both of them for their efforts in this regard. 
This represents part of what I believe Secretary Gates is trying to do, 
which is to focus on immediate consequential threats and necessary 
equipment while we continue to maintain deterrents for the future.

This second engine has not been fully validated by the Secretary of 
Defense. This amendment requires such validation. In addition, one of 
the aspects of the underlying legislation is that the alternate engine 
for the Joint Strike Fighter would be paid for in part by taking away 
funds to purchase additional UH-1Y helicopters for the Marine Corps. 
This request was in the President's budget. These helicopters are 
absolutely critical to ongoing operations in Afghanistan and throughout 
the world. The wear and tear on equipment, particularly in Afghanistan 
and Iraq, has been considerable. If we don't upgrade or repair these 
pieces of equipment on a regular basis, we will not have the lift to 
combat our opponents across the globe.

By comparison, right now in Great Britain there is an argument about 
the sufficiency of helicopters their forces have. We don't want to get 
into such an argument down the road. We want to make sure our forces in 
the field have the equipment they need to carry the fight to our 
opponents.

I think this amendment is extremely well crafted. It puts the money 
where it should be to help our tactical airlift, marines particularly, 
helicopter airlift. It requires the Secretary to justify and validate 
that a second engine would reduce the whole life cycle cost and improve 
the operational readiness of the F-35. We should go forward with 
helicopters and let the Secretary make a judgment about the efficacy of 
the second engine.

I thank the Senator for yielding to me.