---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `badfe5606df38df56424e239e3a3b41d`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. You hit upon a point here that the American 
people need to be aware of as to exactly why we need to pass our bill. 
I have before me what I would like to share with you, this report from 
today's Washington Post. It is a story by Ms. Ann Scott Tyson. It is a 
disheartening story, but it points right to the core of why we need to 
be doing something very urgent to bring accountability and the total 
lack of accountability that this administration has had. And this is 
about our veterans, those who are right off the battlefield.

And, Mr. Ross, just like you, we both just came from Germany where we 
went into Landstuhl and we went into the military hospital near the 
Ramstein Air Base. And our hearts were broken as we saw 19- and 18- and 
20-year-old kids, these are young kids, folks, who are out there at the 
point of the spear, sacrificing their lives in the middle of a civil 
war. And when they come back to get treated, here is the report. She 
says: ''Thousands of soldiers wounded in the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan have overwhelmed the Army system for evaluating their 
eligibility for disability benefits, leading to a near total failure to 
complete such reviews in a timely manner.''

And this is what the services Inspector General concluded in a report 
released yesterday. The report found this, Mr. Ross, it found that 
medical hold facilities lack critical staff, formalized training for 
personnel caring for wounded soldiers, with more than half of unit 
commanders reporting inadequate, our commanders on the ground are 
reporting inadequate for our soldiers. This is no way to treat our 
warriors.

It also cited inadequate and unreliable databases for tracking the 
wounded, not even able to keep track of them. This is why we need our 
accountability act. This is why we need to have oversight and strong 
oversight on this administration. We are not talking about something 
here that doesn't exist. This is a serious problem that goes at the 
core and the soul of America, and that is our young men and women. 
Their lives are too precious, their blood is too precious to be 
sacrificed. Then when they do the sacrifice, they are not taken care 
of.

Just listen to this: some facilities lack wheelchair access, which is 
directly in violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act, is going 
on right now under this administration.



That meant that wounded soldiers even had difficulty reaching the 
restroom. This is the same administration, my friends, this is no 
wonder why we have this. If you recall, they were sent into war without 
body armor. Our soldiers, 2 years ago, were going through dung heaps 
and land mines out in the desert trying to find metal to protect 
themselves.

I said to you, and you and I both agreed when we were over there in 
Germany, we were going to do everything we could when we got back here 
to make sure we passed this bill and give the proper attention to our 
wounded and our veterans.

You know, the Lord moves in strange and mysterious ways, and I am 
convinced that is why the exposure of that terrible situation at Walter 
Reed was made real at this very time to show the Congress and the 
American people we need this accountability law.