# RECOGNIZING 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ENDING OF THE COLD WAR
## `bae016f09194479a3b8c1ae693aae470`
`Mr. BERMAN — 6 November 2009`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

If, on January 1, 1989, anyone had predicted the events that would 
occur in Central and Eastern Europe during the following 12 months 
culminating in the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the Cold War, 
he or she would have been called a hopeless dreamer, a lunatic, or a 
naive revolutionary. And yet by January 1 of 1990, the region and 
indeed the whole world had fundamentally changed.

The events of 1989 were indeed remarkable, beginning with the opening 
of talks between the communist Polish Government and the Solidarity 
trade union in February and ending with the execution of Romanian 
dictator Ceausescu on Christmas Day.

They began with a few ripples and became a tidal wave that swept 
throughout the region, toppling governments and destroying the walls, 
real and virtual, that had divided the continent of Europe for so many 
years.

The initial fissures had begun some years before, aided by the 
actions and policies of the United States and Western Europe, as well 
as the reform measures of glasnost and perestroika introduced by Soviet 
General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev. But the real cracks that led to 
the crumbling of the Wall and the entire regime were brought about by 
the courageous actions of the men and women of Central and Eastern 
Europe in 1989.

This resolution commemorates those events and those people:

The startling election victory of Solidarity, winning every seat it 
was allowed to contest in the lower House and 99 of 100 in the Senate;

The unprecedented decision by the Hungarian Government to open the 
border to Austria, enabling thousands of East Germans to flee to the 
West;

The amazing 400-mile-long human chain across Estonia, Latvia, and 
Lithuania, comprising 2 million citizens linking hands to protest 
Soviet rule and to demand restoration of independent statehood;

The ''Velvet Resolution'' in Czechoslovakia, which caused the 
resignation of the communist government and the free election of 
President Vaclav Havel;

The protests in Bulgaria that led to the end of the 34-year rule of 
Communist leader Zhivkov and the first free elections since 1946;

The uprising of the people in Romania against the efforts to arrest a 
popular priest and the brutal killing of innocent protesters that 
followed, that led to the deposing and the execution of Romanian 
dictator Ceausescu;

And, of course, the iconic event of 1989, the tearing down of the 
Berlin Wall and the joyous celebrations of people who were finally 
free.

Today these countries are important, vibrant, strong democracies, 
important partners in NATO and the European Union. I am proud to call 
them our allies and our friends. We have worked together to address the 
challenges in Afghanistan, the threats posed by terrorists and the 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the risks to our 
environment, to energy security and economic well-being. We share the 
same values and hope for the future.

We still have much work to do to resolve difficult issues remaining 
within Europe, but 20 years after it was considered inconceivable, the 
dream of a Europe, whole, free, and at peace is finally within reach.

I urge my colleagues to join me in commemorating the 20th anniversary 
of the remarkable events leading to the end of the Cold War and the 
creation of a Europe, whole, free, and at peace.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.