---
---

# IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `bae7d950961a7889e5d471b04909525b`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the vote we are about to have should 
give all Members of the Senate a sense of deja vu; we have been here 
before. We are about to vote on an amendment that is reminiscent of a 
rather significant debate we had in the fall of 2002 in connection with 
the creation of the Department of Homeland Security. The


issue at that time, as is the issue this morning, is the question of 
whether we are going to have collective bargaining for the 
transportation security agency.

The public spoke rather loudly in the fall of 2002 in the form of 
Senate elections that year. They thought collective bargaining for 
transportation security workers was not a good idea. The public was 
correct then, and I think that is the public view today. In the ongoing 
debate over Iraq, it is easy to forget the success we have had in 
fighting terrorism, and chief among that is the fact that America has 
not seen a terrorist attack at home in 5/1/2/ years since 9/11. There 
is one reason, and that is the heroic work of our soldiers in 
Afghanistan and Iraq and the tireless efforts of our homeland defenders 
in detecting, preventing, discouraging, and disrupting those attacks in 
our country. Yet, today, these two pillars of our post-9/11 security 
are being put at risk by those who have the audacity to put union work 
rules above the national security.

It is no secret that big labor expects something in return for last 
November's elections. But America's security should not be on the 
table. It is ironic that Democrats who campaigned on the pledge that 
they would implement all of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission 
are now forcing us to consider something that wasn't in the report at 
all. This measure was not in the report and they are blocking us from 
considering something that was in the report. I am talking about the 
proposal to give all 43,000 airport screeners the ability to 
collectively bargain. Not only was this proposal not in the 9/11 
report, it would end up undermining the commission's recommendation.

A key recommendation of the 9/11 Commission said:




 The United States should combine terrorist travel 


 intelligence, operations, and law enforcement in a strategy 


 to intercept terrorists, find terrorist travel facilitators, 


 and constrain terrorist mobility.


That is in the 9/11 report. We saw this during the U.K. bombing 
threat in August. TSA workers who showed up for work at 4 a.m. that 
morning in the United States were briefed on the plot and trained 
immediately in the new protocol. Within 12 hours, we had taken 
classified intelligence and adapted to it. There was no noticeable 
impact on U.S. flights.

It was a different situation over in Great Britain, where 
unionization is the norm. Dozens of flights had to be canceled as they 
worked out an understanding on how they would respond to the new 
threat, travelers were delayed, and backups ensued literally for days. 
We saw the importance of mobility earlier that year when TSA acquired 
new technologies for bomb detection. It trained nearly 40,000 airport 
screeners in the new methods in less than 3 weeks. The TSA says that 
under collective bargaining the same training would take 2 to 6 months.

We are not going to let big labor compromise national security. The 
President has said he will veto a 9/11 bill if it includes collective 
bargaining. We have the votes to sustain that veto. The House has just 
announced it has the votes to sustain a Presidential veto.

This bill will not become law with this dangerous provision in it. 
The only question now is why we are being kept from passing a 9/11 bill 
that focuses on security alone. The President made it clear he will 
veto the bill if it includes a provision that compromises security. The 
American people have already made clear where they stand on collective 
bargaining.

Remember, as I stated, we have been down this road before. We had a 
huge debate in Congress over collective bargaining when we created the 
Department of Homeland Security. Americans didn't like the idea of 
labor slowdowns among security personnel in 2002. They said so at the 
polls in November of 2002. The answer, I am afraid, is clear: This new 
attempt to insert this into the 9/11 bill is a show that was meant to 
appease a voting bloc. We know how this charade is going to end. 
Republicans won't let security be used as a bargaining chip. We are not 
going to let it happen.

It is too bad Americans will have to wait even longer for this bill 
to be signed into law because of the efforts to satisfy organized 
labor.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.