# None
## `baf2baef552f544cc50c67d777be5836`
`Mr. ROHRABACHER â€” 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution.

Let me note, I have all along argued, and I think the people on our 
side of the aisle have argued, that we are not in Iraq in order to have 
permanent bases or any other such thing. American efforts in Iraq have 
been totally based on benevolent and noble motives, and I would hope 
that this is well-understood and appreciated by the people of Iraq 
themselves.

The fact is that there is some confusion because, during the public 
debate on what American foreign policy should be, far too often we have 
heard in the hype of emotions the charges, even from people in this 
body, that America is being imperialistic. I mean, that word 
''imperialism'' has actually sprung up in several hearings that I've 
been at as a Member of Congress. That is an insult to American military 
personnel. We can honestly disagree about what's going on in Iraq 
without having to debase the people of the United States of America by 
claiming we're imperialists like the former empires in Russia and 
Germany, et cetera.

No, I think we've been benevolent from the beginning. Our people 
wanted to come in, to liberate Iraq from a bloody tyrant who 
slaughtered hundreds of thousands of his own people. We came there to 
help the people of Iraq and hopefully establish a democratic 
government. Now, whether or not we succeed or not, I'm not sure. I 
would hope the majority of people in Iraq appreciate that, and today, 
we are reaffirming to them we are not there to have any permanent 
presence.

I, in fact, will be proposing legislation this coming week which 
suggests, as a sense of the House, and I would ask the Speaker of the 
House to be aware of this, that we need to have a sense of the House 
resolution calling on the Iraqi Government to have a referendum of 
whether they want the American troops that are there today to begin an 
immediate withdrawal or whether they would like American troops to stay 
there until order has been restored and order has been brought to the 
people of Iraq. I think that if the Iraqi people vote that we should 
have an immediate withdrawal, we should go. We should go. But if the 
people of Iraq decide they appreciate and want us to be there to help 
them fight off radical Islamists and others who would impose their 
brand of dictatorship on the people of Iraq, well, then, perhaps we 
should take into consideration that the Iraqi people want us there.

So I will be proposing legislation later on in the week calling for 
this referendum, and in the meantime, let us reaffirm with this 
legislation that it had never been the intent of the United


States of America to use Iraq as a permanent base for America's 
military presence in that region.

I thank you very much for your leadership, Madam Speaker. Thank you 
for your leadership in this, and I appreciate you are an activist. 
Since I've been in this Congress, you have always been an activist, and 
we have been on the same side in that activism.