---
---

# MIDWEST FLOODING
## `baf2e936ee059c93cbd653466e4525a4`
`Mr. HARKIN — 16 June 2008`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, first let me thank my senior colleague 
Senator Grassley for his many kindnesses and for working and 
coordinating this as we did the other day. Our staffs are working very 
closely together to do everything we can to ensure that the recovery we 
have to do now is swift and thorough and that we do everything we can 
to assist the many volunteers in Iowa who have come forward to help.

We toured a lot together late last week. I am sure we will be doing 
more this week to make sure that we are up to speed, that we know what 
is happening, that we have a firm grip on the different agencies that 
have to come to Iowa for this tremendous cleanup effort.

I wanted to join with my colleague Senator Grassley in giving a 
little bit of a report on the events unfolding in my State of Iowa. 
Senator Grassley has covered them, but I might add of couple of things.

As he said, last week we toured a number of cities: Waterloo and 
Cedar Falls and Cedar Rapids, Iowa City, Des Moines, Mason City, 
Charles City, Nashua, Waverly--all places hard hit by this flood. I 
need not tell Senators--I know you have all watched it unfold on 
television, on CNN and everything else--as to the devastation in our 
State. Every newspaper is covering it on the front pages, whether it is 
the New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, the Chicago Tribune or 
Atlanta or wherever you are.

Iowa is experiencing flooding of almost Biblical proportions. Nine 
rivers are at flood stage, 83 of our 99 counties have been declared 
disaster areas by Governor Culver, and 54 roads and highways have been 
closed. Interstate 80, the major east-west thoroughfare of our Nation, 
is closed and has been since--well, I think since Friday, either 
Thursday or Friday. In Iowa, Interstate 80 is closed. Interstate 380, 
north-south, is closed, not to mention a lot of our smaller roads and 
highways in Iowa, making it very difficult for people to even get 
around.

As Senator Grassley said, last Friday we were accompanied by FEMA 
Administrator Paulison and Governor Culver, OMB Director Nussle, a 
former Iowan. Mr. Paulison said the flooding was some of the worst to 
hit the United States since Hurricane Katrina slammed into the gulf 
coast. I would simply add that the cresting Cedar River raging through 
downtown Cedar Rapids is as bad as what Americans saw in Katrina in New 
Orleans in 2005.

You have to witness it with your own eyes to appreciate the breadth 
and the intensity of this devastation. It is very humbling when you 
meet with so many people who have been so affected by this, lost their 
homes, several lives lost. Thank God we kept it to a minimum--but 
losing all of their homes, things they have built all their life. Do 
you know what is really sad? Homes can be repaired. You can rebuild a 
house, you can do things again. It is so many of the personal effects 
people lost. Because they had to leave in such a hurry because of the 
rising waters, they were not able to take a lot of their personal 
effects: mementos, pictures, albums, birth certificates--all kinds of 
things like these that are the summation of your life, in many cases, 
gone, and those are irreplaceable. It is shocking, the devastation. 
Tens of thousands have been displaced, 25,000 people in Cedar Rapids 
alone.

This again, as Senator Grassley pointed to one chart, is another view 
of the Cedar River here, Alliant Energy here. I will show you another 
picture shortly. The downtown area is over here. This is city hall. As 
you can see, it is totally inundated. Of course, power is off and 
everything. This is sort of the downtown area.

Then I think that I have one here--yes. This is a picture I took 
myself. I took this with a digital camera flying over it on Friday. 
That was city hall you saw in the previous picture. But you get some 
idea of the devastation of downtown. For example, the picture Senator 
Grassley showed is right


down here. My Senate office is in this building here; of course, 
totally inaccessible, everything is shut down. So you can begin to get 
an idea of the magnitude of it.

Right over here is the Quaker Oats plant. I am sorry, I cut it off. 
This is the Quaker Oats plant. This is the largest grain milling 
facility in the world, and it is shut down, underwater.

Now you begin to see some of the other neighborhoods here and how 
they are impacted also. I wanted to see how many blocks it was. This is 
a typical part of Cedar Rapids that is flooded. You can see what a 
block would be like. You know, I cannot even tell the streets here, but 
I assume this would be a street, this would be a street, and this would 
be a street, so that would be a block. So you have about--maybe you 
have six or eight blocks here. There are 400 blocks like this that are 
underwater in Cedar Rapids--400. I did not have a camera big enough, 
did not have a lens big enough to cover it all, but 400 city blocks are 
inundated like that.

In Iowa City, much of the University of Iowa has been inundated. 
Students, faculty, staff--we were there watching them sandbag. Students 
were working, moving books from the library, artwork from the 
university's gallery.


Also, it is not just our largest cities. We talk about Cedar Rapids, 
Waterloo, Des Moines, and Iowa City, but there are other smaller towns 
and communities we visited. Senator Grassley and I were in Charles City 
and Waverly. Each have more than 500 homes inundated with floodwaters. 
We were told on Saturday one in every four residents of Waverly--one in 
every four residents--is affected by this situation, and their houses 
are flooded.

We went through the downtown area of Waverly on Saturday--not a 
business was open. Now, thankfully, the waters have receded because it 
is up north and the water is headed south. The waters have receded, but 
they do not have power yet. They have all the mud and the dirt and the 
debris to clean up.

Elkader had 60 homes and 30 businesses destroyed when the Turkey 
River went over the levee. The Anamosa sewage treatment plant failed at 
two different points because the levee broke. The list goes on and on.

I had to duck out for a minute when my colleague was talking, but 
Senator Grassley's hometown of New Hartford--you feel so sorry for 
them. They were hit by this tornado a couple weeks ago, and a couple 
people lost their lives. It did not hit the town squarely, but it 
nicked it and took some houses out on the north side of town. But then 
New Hartford got flooded, and they had to evacuate the town because of 
the flood.

If you fly over Iowa--and, of course, being chairman of the 
Agriculture Committee and being associated with agriculture all my 
life, I wanted to look and see--and you look over the countryside of 
Iowa, I do not know that I saw one field that was not affected with 
ponding and water. Because the corn had only come up maybe a couple of 
inches, the water has covered it and it is dead. It is gone.

So we do not know the extent of this damage, but the Iowa Farm Bureau 
estimates that as much as 16 percent of Iowa's 25 million acres are 
currently under water. Now, I have to tell you, just from my own 
eyeball, looking at it while flying over it over 2 days, I think it is 
higher than that.

Again I say, we see nature at its worst, but we see people at their 
best. With the sheer number of volunteers filling sandbags and helping 
out in other ways, thousands have participated. We were in Iowa City, 
and they were sandbagging up the library. You had little kids--9-, 10-
year-old kids, maybe some younger--holding these plastic funnels so 
they could get the right amount of sand into the sandbags. Then they 
had these lines set up with students and everything.

I saw the same thing in Des Moines: sandbaggers sandbagging 24 hours 
a day. More people showed up than they could actually use to work.

There is no doubt, I am told by the mayor of Cedar Falls, Mayor 
Crews, that the effort of volunteers at Cedar Falls--that is right 
across the river from Waterloo--that the thousands of sandbags--tens of 
thousands--that were filled and reinforced the levee saved the downtown 
area of Cedar Falls.

So everywhere Senator Grassley and I went last week, we witnessed 
Iowans giving their all to help their neighbors. I would be remiss if I 
did not mention the Iowa National Guard. Thank God for the Iowa 
National Guard. I am glad they are here. They have been deployed a lot 
in Afghanistan and Iraq, but it is nice to know they are home now. They 
were there to help. Over 2,500 members were mobilized. General Dardis, 
the head of our Iowa National Guard, has done a superb job.

Everywhere you go you see these National Guard people out there 
working. They are working, they are organizing, they are taking 
leadership positions. They are doing everything from filling sandbags 
to working the levees, helping people out of their homes, doing a 
magnificent job.

Again, I see these National Guard kids out there. I don't know when 
they ever sleep. It is like 24 hours a day they just keep going.

Well, I guess if there is any good news, it is that in Iowa City the 
water crested yesterday. But, again, when I talk about ''over flood 
stage,'' usually when you talk about something being over flood stage, 
you are talking about it being a few inches over. Get this: In Cedar 
Rapids the old record was 20 feet set in 1929. On Friday, the river 
crested at 32 feet--almost 12 feet higher than any time ever. We never 
had this level of flooding. This level of flooding has never happened 
in Cedar Rapids.

Across eastern Iowa, flooding rivers have washed out railroad lines. 
Mississippi barge traffic has come to a halt. It closed major roadways. 
As I said, Interstate 80 is still closed.

Thousands of Iowa businesses, large and small, have been impacted. 
John Deere had to evacuate two of its plants in Waterloo. I mentioned 
the Quaker Oats plant, as shown here on the map, in Cedar Rapids. It is 
the largest grain processing plant in the world. It was flooded and 
left idle.

In Cedar Rapids, 400 city blocks are submerged, as shown right there 
on the map. That is valued at close to $750 million. Early estimates of 
damage to Iowa's agricultural economy, I can tell you right now, will 
exceed over $1 billion. That is just agriculture.

Well, Iowans are a resilient and resourceful people. But, as with the 
gulf coast in the wake of Katrina, we are going to need generous 
Federal assistance to help us get back on our feet. The destruction is 
so vast that it is simply beyond the capacity of local governments and 
the Iowa State government to handle it by themselves.

Now, keep in mind, when we talk about the big cities, there are so 
many small towns and communities out there that have been hit hard that 
need help and jobs that need to be rebuilt. It is not just Iowa. We 
have Illinois, Missouri, Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, Kansas, and 
Minnesota. They have all been hard hit by flooding and tornadoes.

I believe the hardest hit States will need to have the local matching 
funds for FEMA assistance, which is normally 25 percent, they are going 
to have to be reduced as much as possible. I hope we can work with the 
administrator and with President Bush to get that down as much as 
possible.

The Iowa delegation--on a bipartisan, bicameral basis--is preparing a 
letter right now asking the President for this relief. There is no 
conceivable way that a State with the devastation on the scale that 
Senator Grassley and I witnessed this weekend can come up with a 25-
percent match in order to trigger the customary FEMA assistance.

Now, beyond that, we are going to need to move quickly in addressing 
weaknesses in our flood control systems and some other mitigation needs 
so businesses and homes can be safely repaired.

The full 15 percent in FEMA disaster mitigation assistance, as 
authorized back in 1993, should be provided. It may very well make more 
sense for the State to buy homes that have been flooded so we can avoid 
having them flooded again in the future, with those repairs again paid 
for with Federal flood insurance and other Federal assistance. Such 
homes can be purchased and then permanently converted to parkland or 
other uses that will not need very costly repairs after future floods.



I might add, we had devastating floods in Iowa in 1993. We did some 
of this mitigation. Because some of those homes were removed--in fact, 
I think there is one town where basically the whole town was moved to 
higher ground. And guess what. They did not get flooded this time. A 
lot of times it makes good sense to do that.

We are going to need flexible community development block grant 
funding for infrastructure repair and home assistance. Economic 
Development Administration funds for infrastructure will be needed for 
businesses and jobs. Corps of Engineers funding will be needed for the 
repair and improvement of levees. We will also need Department of 
Agriculture support for a whole variety of agricultural things--from 
repairing conservation structures to meeting new soil conservation 
problems and cleaning up debris. Every culvert going under these roads, 
all over the State of Iowa, has been plugged up with some kind of 
debris. Bridges--all this stuff--need to be taken out and taken out in 
a hurry. So we are going to need the help of the Department of 
Agriculture on that.


So it will be several weeks, at least, before we can have an accurate 
measure of the total economic losses and physical destruction. Probably 
more time than that for areas south of the water. The water is all 
moving south, so I hate to say this, but I think northern Missouri is 
about to get hit pretty hard. And as to the absolute southeast of Iowa, 
we have not seen it hit the absolute southeast of Iowa yet.

So, again, we are going to have to get a pretty good handle on this, 
but this is a national disaster. It requires a national response.

So, Mr. President, I am sure Senator Grassley and I will have more to 
report in the days ahead. But our thoughts and prayers are with the 
good people of Iowa and neighboring States who are still struggling 
with floodwaters or still picking up the pieces from devastating 
tornadoes.

Again, I want to join with Senator Grassley in thanking so many 
church groups in Iowa. We saw them. Every place we went, we saw church 
groups getting together. Protestant, Catholic, evangelical--no matter 
who--they were all getting together and setting up response teams, 
doing an outstanding job. It was so wonderful to see these people come 
together and organize in that fashion.

Then, of course, in Cedar Rapids, some of the churches are 
underwater. I may not have one here on this map, but I had a picture 
earlier. I had some pictures of churches that were underwater too. But 
the church groups, religious groups in Iowa, have been wonderful.

On a really somber and sad note, I would, again, express my 
condolences to the families of the Boy Scouts who were killed at Little 
Sioux--a terrible tragedy--and to the families where some of the kids 
were hurt pretty badly. Some of them are still in critical condition.

So we are praying for their recovery, their full recovery. But you 
listen to the stories that came out of that Boy Scout camp, and you see 
what a good thing Boy Scouts is and the leadership they provided and 
how they pulled together and helped one another. There is a lot of 
strong leadership in these Boy Scouts.

So we hope their families will take some condolence in the fact that 
these kids responded in a great leadership fashion. These young kids 
responded as adults after that tornado hit that Boy Scout camp.

Lastly, Mr. President, I deeply appreciate the many expressions of 
concern and caring expressed by our Senate colleagues. I have gotten a 
lot of phone calls and messages, and I thank all my colleagues for 
their expressions of concern and caring.

We will get through it. Obviously, we will get through it. I think 
Iowa will be a stronger State. We will have some tough times. I have no 
doubt about it. A lot of people out there do not have much money. A lot 
of times it is the lowest income people along the rivers and stuff 
because, well, the spacing--that is where the cheapest land is, isn't 
it? That is where the lowest cost houses are, for the most part. I am 
not saying all, but for the most part. I have seen some pretty 
beautiful homes inundated by water too, I might add, but a lot of these 
people are low-income people. They are elderly. They have nowhere to 
turn. As a caring nation, we have to help them put their lives together 
again.

So we will be on this every day. I am pleased to hear that President 
Bush--I just found this out a few minutes ago--will be coming to Iowa 
on Thursday. That will be good. I hope he can see this firsthand and 
then help us with getting those FEMA matching funds down as much as 
possible.

With that, again, I will be reporting more in the days ahead. But we 
are starting the clean-up process now from the most devastating flood I 
have ever seen in all my years in the State of Iowa.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.