# REAUTHORIZATION OF THE TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY ACT
## `bb008c8f311a540859f1433c4851004e`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 11 December 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, in passing the reauthorization of the 
Traumatic Brain Injury Act today, the Senate has taken an important 
step toward making a difference in the lives of some of our Nation's 
most deserving citizens: our soldiers and our children. It is a 
privilege to have worked with my colleague, Senator Hatch, on this 
legislation. It is an important and timely bill that helps an 
especially deserving group of people.

Brain injuries have become the signature wound of the war in Iraq. Up 
to two-thirds of our wounded soldiers may have suffered such injuries. 
Here at home, an unacceptably large number of children from birth to 
age 14 experience traumatic brain injuries--approximately 475,000 a 
year and some of the most frequent of these injuries are to children 
under the age of five. In Massachusetts alone, more than 40,000 
individuals experience brain injuries each year.

As a result of such injuries, over 5.3 million Americans are now 
living with a permanent disability. Today, we have taken a step toward 
ensuring that these citizens and their families will receive the best 
care we can provide.

The bill reauthorizes grants that assist States, Territories, and the 
District of Columbia in establishing and expanding coordinated systems 
of community-based services and supports for those with such injuries.

When Congress approved the Traumatic Brain Injury Act as part of the 
Children's Health Act of 2000, we included a specific provision called 
the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Traumatic Brain Injury 
Program. This program has become essential because persons with these 
injuries have an array of needs beyond treatment and health care, 
including assistance in returning to work, finding a place to live, 
obtaining supports and services such as attendant care and assistive 
technology, and obtaining appropriate mental health, substance abuse, 
and rehabilitation services.

Often these persons--especially our returning veterans--must remain 
in extremely expensive institutions far


longer than necessary, because the community-based supports and 
services they need are not available, even though they can lead to 
reduced government expenditures, increased productivity, independence 
and community integration. Those who provide such assistance must have 
special skills, and their work is often time-intensive.

Our legislation allocates funds for CDC programs that will provide 
important information and data on injury prevention. A recent Institute 
of Medicine report showed that such programs work. Their benefit is 
obvious, and we must do all we can to expand this appropriation in the 
years ahead to meet the urgent and growing need for this assistance.

A recent report by the Institute of Medicine calls the current TBI 
programs an ''overall success.'' It states that ''there is considerable 
value in providing funding,'' and ''it is worrisome that the modestly 
budgeted TBI Program continues to be vulnerable to budget cuts.''

Current estimates show that the Federal Government spends less than 
$3 dollars per brain injury survivor on research and services. As the 
IOM study suggests, this program must be able to grow, so that each 
State has the resources necessary to maintain vital services and 
advocacy for the large number of Americans who sustain such a brain 
injury each year.

Today's passage of this bipartisan bill moves us closer to continuing 
and strengthening these important programs which say to our Nation's 
wounded soldiers and injured children: ''You deserve the best we can 
provide''. I hope very much that Congress will continue to expand these 
programs, so that we can truly do all we can for these deserving 
individuals and their families.