---
---

# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `bb03142643a630d72b5fa9a977e952e2`
`Mr. BAUCUS — 9 February 2009`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Madam President, I wish to set the record straight on a 
few points that speakers on the other side of the aisle have made. I 
think it would be totally unfair if they go unchallenged and the record 
is not set straight.

The Senator from Oklahoma said the bill before us is the biggest 
spending bill ever. That is not true. It is true this is a big bill, 
and that is because the economy is in such dire shape and because we 
are in a recession. That is a big problem. It needs to be faced. This 
is a big bill, and I would suggest the appropriate response to a big 
problem is a big bill. An inappropriate response would be not a big 
bill to a very big problem.

I might say that this is a big problem also because economists 
project that the economy is likely to suffer $2 trillion to $3 trillion 
less growth because of this recession than would have occurred with 
full employment. Again, that is $2 trillion to $3 trillion of less 
growth because of the recession than would have occurred with full 
employment. We have a lot of lost jobs, as we know. We need to do 
something pretty significant about that.

The size of the bill is an appropriate level to try to replace some 
of the activity this recession is robbing from our economy.

The second point is this is not the largest bill that Congress has 
ever considered. That assertion, made by a Senator on the floor not 
long ago, was inaccurate; it is not true. The fact is, in past years, 
we have passed legislation that would cut taxes by trillions of dollars 
and all in one bill.

Those who call this the largest bill in history are forgetting recent 
history. The 2001 Bush tax cuts, the Economic Growth and Tax Relief 
Reconciliation Act, was estimated back then to cost $1.3 trillion over 
10 years. Frankly, I think it turned out to be more than that. It was a 
larger bill than this. This is a $827 billion bill; that was about $1.3 
trillion.

I also think it is important for us to remember that as of October of 
last year, Congress had approved a total of $864 billion for the Iraq 
and Afghanistan wars and for enhanced security at military bases from 
2001 through 2009. About $657 billion of that amount, about 76 percent, 
was approved for the war in Iraq, and the conflict is not over yet. So 
an accurate tabulation would conclude that the Afghan and Iraq wars are 
bigger than the stimulus bill before us. So it is inaccurate that this 
is the largest spending bill we have ever had.

Next, the Senator from South Dakota asserted that the mandatory 
spending in the bill is permanent. That is not accurate. The spending 
in this bill is not permanent. The spending provisions in this bill are 
nearly all sunsetted, not permanent. We have crafted a bill that has 
its effects in the first 2 years.

I remind my colleagues that according to CBO and the Joint Committee 
on Tax, a nonpartisan, bipartisan professional staff, whose job it is 
to analyze legislation before us, concluded that 79 percent of the 
effect of the Finance Committee provisions would take effect the first 
two years. That doesn't sound like it is permanent to me. The Joint 
Committee on Tax and CBO, in a combined analysis, concludes


that 79 percent of the entire bill's effect will be spent in the first 
2 years. That is not my statement. That is CBO, made up of very highly 
trained professionals who deal with these issues. So it is not true 
that this spending goes on forever. This bill is very temporary, by 
definition.

Another colleague on the other side complained that this doesn't do 
enough for small business. Let's see if that is true. The business 
provisions in the bill, like the loss carrybacks, help small businesses 
by providing immediate cash to help them meet payroll and make 
investments. That can clearly help all businesses. In addition, the 
bill has something specifically targeted at small businesses that are 
trying to make ends meet. That is expanded expenses in section 179. 
That section is a provision in the law that allows businesses to fully 
expense their expenditures for that year. They don't have to depreciate 
and apply that depreciation against earnings in subsequent years. 
Rather, they can fully expense the expenses. I forgot the cutoff, but 
it is around $700,000 or $800,000. It is significant. That is in this 
bill.

Also, there are other business provisions, such as the extension of 
bonus depreciation. We extend that provision in current law, and that 
is extended next year. That provision says any expenses that any 
company makes can be fully expensed irrespective of the size and 
purpose--50 percent can be fully expensed in the first year, and the 
rest has to be amortized. That is a big boon for small business. There 
are many other provisions. We picked up some of the big ones.

I mentioned the 5-year carryback of operating loss. That helps 
business. Section 179 is targeted only to small business. There is 
delayed recognition of certain cancellations of debt income. There is a 
small business capital gains provision. That will help small business 
and also the S-corp holding period. Most small businesses or S-corps--
there is a provision here of half a billion dollars relief over 10 
years. Altogether, the tax portion of the bill contains about $28 
billion worth of provisions targeted to small business.

This bill certainly contains provisions that are very helpful. So the 
assertion that there is nothing in this bill to help small business is 
simply inaccurate.

Fourth, two Senators said this bill spends hundreds of thousands of 
dollars for every job this bill creates. A lot of Senators are throwing 
a lot of numbers around. It is kind of wild. That is one of them. That 
is wildly inflated. Why? First, those who make that assertion simply 
divide the total cost of the bill by the number of jobs created in any 
1 year. This bill spends out over 2 years, not 1 year. The jobs it 
preserves or creates will extend over 2 years and longer. Thus, the 
Senators need to cut their estimates per job at least in half. They 
take 1-year numbers, and we are talking about 2 years. When this bill 
is passed with the jobs it creates or preserves, the people who would 
get those jobs will pay taxes, payroll taxes, income taxes. Thus, they 
bring money back into the Treasury. That also helps cut taxes, the 
total number of dollars per job. A fair analysis would cut first their 
assertion in half, and it would add back additional revenues that would 
go back into the Treasury because of the jobs these people would have 
would produce payroll taxes and sales taxes--we are talking about 
payroll tax and income tax.

I wish when Senators speak--and certainly they can have their 
opinions, and every Senator has come to the conclusion whether he or 
she is for or against the bill--I wish when the Senators describe the 
bill, they would describe it in a fair and balanced way and then reach 
their conclusion--not just take one set of facts only because it is 
inaccurate and misleading, frankly, to the American public, who want us 
to do the right thing, to figure out a way to stop the recession. I 
firmly believe the public should have all the facts, and they would 
probably reach the conclusion that this is the right thing to do. In 
statements I have made, I have acknowledged this is a big bill. I have 
acknowledged it is imperfect. But I also conclude it is far better to 
pass this legislation than do nothing. If we don't pass this, we ain't 
seen nothing yet, in terms of the foreclosure of homes underway and 
jobs lost. We will get close to the Great Depression.

There is no other conclusion than we must pass this legislation 
quickly so we can get on to the next issues we have to face.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.