# AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `bb0d5d2ee407230f5b2568fd2480b640`
`Mr. OBEY — 31 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Chairman, I think it is important for Members on both 
sides of the aisle to understand what is going to transpire here. This 
is a filibuster masquerading as an amendment. This amendment cuts 
$50,000, a tiny, tiny symbolic sum, from the administrative account in 
question. But, as I see it, this is not a real amendment.

What it means is that it simply affords those who offer it, under the 
guise of talking about spending, to really engage in delay and delay 
and delay. Because their goal, if they can, is to not have the House 
finish its appropriations business. Their goal, also, if they can, is 
to delay the SCHIP bill from coming to the floor and finally being 
passed by the House.

So after we have seen this administration and their allies in this 
House borrow $1.2 trillion to pay for tax cuts and after we have seen 
them borrow another $600 billion to finance that misbegotten war in 
Iraq, now they pretend that they are contributing to the public good by 
offering to cut spending by $50,000; not $50 billion, but $50,000.

This is, in plain language, a filibuster. It is the first of many 
amendments that are being offered by people who are so opposed to the 
SCHIP proposition, which will be before us tomorrow, that they would 
prefer to defend $50 billion in tax cuts for people making $1 million a 
year than they would to see 5 million more kids covered by health 
insurance in this country. That is really what is afoot here.

Mr. Chairman, I find myself only mildly amused, because the subject 
really is serious. I find myself only mildly amused by the fact that, 3 
days ago, we had the President announce another large, massive increase 
in foreign aid which he wants us to provide yet this year.

We also now increasingly are coming to understand that the President 
will be asking for an extension of the surge in Iraq, which will 
require him to ask the Congress to spend an extra $25 billion to $30 
billion above and beyond $140 billion he is planning to ask for in the 
supplemental already for this year for Iraq. So, yet, we are here mired 
today in this let's-pretend Potemkin debate over $50,000.

We don't, on this side of the aisle, intend to get bogged down; at 
least, we don't intend to contribute to the bogging down. So we will 
let them drone on, drone on and drone on with their Lilliputian 
amendments.

Meanwhile, we recognize what is happening: If the other side wants to 
delay the people's business for a while, all that means is that, in the 
end, our colleagues won't be going home on Friday, they won't be going 
home on Saturday, and we will still be having Sunday dinner together.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.