---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2740, MEJA EXPANSION AND  ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `bb13ef27d1d90a199cca3e8908293493`
`Ms. SUTTON — 3 October 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. Mr. Speaker, I want to congratulate the distinguished 
gentleman from North Carolina on this strong bipartisan bill. The MEJA 
Expansion and Enforcement Act is critical, commonsense legislation to 
hold contractors responsible for criminal behavior, just like we hold 
our troops responsible for crimes when they are committed, and just 
like we hold American citizens responsible for following the law.

Those who argue against this measure seem willing to tolerate 
lawlessness in countries where our military is seeking to restore 
justice. The truth is, every time we see an incident with an Iraqi 
civilian being killed and American contractors escaping accountability, 
our men and women in uniform suffer. They see support from the 
insurgents rise and they lose the trust of the Iraqi people.

Our troops are not responsible for the strain that the President has 
placed on our Armed Forces which has led to the need for mercenaries to 
carry out missions that our troops capably handle, and it is tragic 
that the troops are targeted for the negligence of private contractors. 
We owe it to our troops and the Iraqi people to ensure that contractors 
are held to the same standards of justice as everybody else. Only then 
will we see a true deterrent to vigilante behavior and reckless actions 
by private citizens working overseas for our Federal agencies and 
Departments.

It is simple, Mr. Speaker. The MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act 
extends policies that are in place for the


Department of Defense to contractors for other agencies.

And let's be clear: Nobody is accusing every single contractor of 
committing the criminal acts we have talked about today. But when a 
contractor does commit a crime, they must be punished and we must have 
consequences to serve as a deterrent. It should not be controversial to 
punish people for committing murder and other felonies. This is a giant 
loophole in our law that is hurting our reputation abroad, hurting our 
troops in the field and is making a mockery of the American sense of 
justice.

I urge a ''yes'' vote on the previous question and on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. Hastings of Washington is 
as follows:



 Amendment to H. Res. 702 Offered by Mr. Hastings of Washington




 At the end of the resolution, add the following:



 Sec. 3. That immediately upon the adoption of this 


 resolution the House shall, without intervention of any point 


 of order, consider the resolution (H. Res. 479) to amend the 


 Rules of the House of Representatives to provide for 


 enforcement of clause 9 of rule XXI of the Rules of the House 


 of Representatives. The resolution shall be considered as 


 read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 


 the resolution to final adoption without intervening motion 


 or demand for division of the question except: (1) one hour 


 of debate equally divided and controlled by the chairman and 


 ranking minority member of the Committee on Rules; and (2) 


 one motion to recommit.