---
---

# HOPE OFFERED THROUGH PRINCIPLED AND ETHICAL STEM CELL RESEARCH ACT--
## `bb21dd15b8ca152c92fca0755283689d`
`Mr. REID — 11 April 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I have risen many times over the past years 
in support of the legislation that is now before this body, legislation 
that will unlock the hope of stem cell research for millions of 
Americans and tens of thousands of Nevadans who suffer from cancer, 
Alzheimer's, diabetes, Parkinson's, spinal cord injuries, heart 
disease, Lou Gehrig's disease, and many other diseases.

Initially, I extend my appreciation to Senator Harkin. Others worked 
hard on this legislation. Senator Kennedy and Senator Feinstein have 
done a wonderful job, but Senator Harkin, from his position as the 
chair and/or ranking member of the labor subcommittee on 
appropriations, has worked with Senator Specter--back and forth, the 
two of them have worked to come up with stem cell legislation.

Senator Harkin has been a pioneer and a leader in this cause. I 
admire and respect him for a lot of what he has done as a longtime 
Member of the Senate, but I know I have more respect for him for what 
he has done on this legislation.

He has a tremendously good staff: Erik Fatemi, Ellen Murray, and 
Adrian Hatlett. They have done good work.

I have to throw a bouquet to my longtime, very important legislative 
advocate whom I have working for me, Carolyn Gluck. She has worked very 
hard on this issue. I appreciate her hard work.

I have spoken in the past about a man I met who is in a wheelchair in 
Boulder City, NE. This man suffers from Parkinson's. I asked him why he 
was in his wheelchair. He told me. After this legislation was vetoed by 
President Bush, he felt so bad because he believes with this 
legislation he will be able to walk again and not be confined to that 
wheelchair.

I have spoken of an 18-year-old twin from Las Vegas. She came to 
Washington for the first time when she was a little girl. She has 
suffered from juvenile diabetes for most of her life. She has had tens 
of thousands of needle pricks over these years--tens of thousands. But 
this 18-year-old girl still remains optimistic because of this 
legislation--optimistic for a healthy adulthood. Not only does she feel 
that way but her twin sister feels the same way.

I have spoken of a 23-year-old man from Henderson who just weeks 
after his high school graduation was in a car accident which left him a 
quadriplegic and whose mother wrote to me a plaintive letter hoping, 
praying because of this legislation her son one day will lead a more 
normal life.

The plight and suffering of these friends and neighbors pains my 
heart. But sadly, their stories are far from unique. Mr. President, 100 
million Americans suffer just like them. Those who suffer are parents, 
are children, are friends, are our neighbors. They know that stem cell 
research is not a guarantee or imaginable, but they know it holds 
promise, they know it holds hope, real hope, yes, scientific hope. They 
know it because the world's leading experts tell us so.

In a letter to President Bush, 80 Nobel laureates wrote:




 . . . for disorders that prove not to be treatable with 


 adult stem cells, impeding human pluripotent stem cell 


 research risks unnecessary delay for millions of patients who 


 may die or endure needless suffering while the effectiveness 


 of adult stem cells is evaluated.

This is a statement from 80 Nobel Prize winners.

According to the National Academies of Science, research on both 
embryonic and adult stem cells is needed ''to most effectively advance 
the scientific and therapeutic potential of regenerative medicine.''

In a letter dated a few days ago, April 9, Dr. Harold Varmus, former 
Director of the National Institutes of Health and now the President of 
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and also a Nobel laureate wrote:




 S. 5 represents an important step forward for human 


 embryonic stem cell research, a new field that offers great 


 promise for the replacement of damaged cells, the 


 understanding of the mechanics of disease, and the 


 development of the testing of new drugs. Unfortunately, 


 current Federal policy, in place since 2001, has not kept 


 pace with the speed of scientific discovery and is today of 


 limited value to the scientific community.


A man whom I have met, Dr. Jeffery Bluestone, a leading diabetes 
researcher and director of the Diabetes Center at the University of 
California, San Francisco, said:




 We have made great strides in understanding the role of the 


 immune system in diabetes, but fully pursuing both embryonic 


 and adult stem cell research will build on our current 


 successes and could be critical in the ultimate treatment and 


 cure of patients who suffer from this disease.


I have spoken to him personally, and he has said we are going to 
cure, in the next few years, diabetes. They need this ability to go 
forward.

The other day I received a letter signed by more than 500 leading 
organizations from all around the country. It crossed the political 
spectrum. It includes the AARP, the American Medical Association, 
Novartis Pharmaceuticals, the Mayo Clinic, the Episcopal Church, Iraq 
Veterans for a Cure, the American Diabetes Association, Memorial Sloan-
Kettering Cancer Center, Harvard University, and the Parkinson's Action 
Network--to name 11 of 500 organizations.

They spoke with one voice in support of S. 5, writing:




 The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act will move stem cell 


 research forward in our country. The bill holds promise for 


 expanding medical breakthroughs and hope for millions of 


 patients and their loved ones.


Even President Bush's own Director of the National Institutes of 
Health, Dr. Elias Zerhouni, endorsed the need to pursue embryonic stem 
cell research in addition to alternative forms of research. At a Senate 
hearing a few weeks ago he said:




 It's not possible for me to see how we can continue the 


 momentum of science and research with the stem cell lines we 


 have at NIH. . . . [F]rom my standpoint as NIH director, it 


 is in the best interests of our scientists, our science, and 


 our country that we find ways and the nation finds a way to 


 go full-speed across adult and embryonic stem cells equally.


Americans, by a huge majority, favor stem cell research because they 
see the suffering of their own friends and relatives and neighbors, 
similar to those described in my introduction today. They hear the 
opinions of experts similar to those I just mentioned and they put 
their faith in science.

Californians, by ballot, voted, they agreed to spend billions of 
their own State Treasury on stem cell research, thus challenging the 
obstinacy of President Bush.

Congress has supported this important cause already. Two years ago 
the House of Representatives passed something called H.R. 810, the Stem 
Cell Research Enhancement Act, with bipartisan support. Last year the 
Senate followed suit, as Republicans and Democrats united to pass a 
bill that will expand the number of stem cell lines available to 
federally funded researchers, while ensuring that strict ethical 
guidelines are followed.

Yet when we sent this bipartisan bill to President Bush's desk, he 
responded with a veto--his only veto in 6 years, taking away the hope 
for millions.

Today, as hundreds of millions of Americans wait for progress, our 
scientists, our innovators are marking time, waiting for President Bush 
to keep hope alive. The wishes of the American people and the 
overwhelming weight of evidence, scientific evidence, should trump the 
narrow ideology of President George Bush.

Yesterday and today we debated S. 5, the Stem Cell Research 
Enhancement Act, a bill that is similar to the one both the House and 
Senate passed last year with strong bipartisan support. The House 
passed it again this year. S. 5 authorizes federally funded research on 
stem cell lines derived from excess embryos from fertility clinics, 
embryos that would otherwise be discarded--discarded, thrown away, 
trashed. These potentially discarded embryos could and should be used 
to advance lifesaving research.

At the same time, our bill acknowledges the important ethical issues 
at stake and enacts stronger research guidelines than exist in the 
President's current policy. Because we believe that all forms of 
promising research should move forward, S. 5 includes a provision that 
supports the advancement of alternative forms of stem cell research


based on the Santorum-Specter bill that passed the Senate unanimously 
last year.


Tonight the Senate will also consider another measure sponsored by 
Senators Coleman and Isakson. Similar to our bill, theirs would promote 
research in alternative methods for deriving stem cells, some say. 
However, unlike our bill, this bill would retain the President's 
restrictions on stem cell research. The legislation is, in my opinion, 
more political than substantive, more political than scientific. The 
Coleman-Isakson bill is not a substitute for S. 5.

I know some of my colleagues will disagree. I am not going to vote 
for it. I think S. 30 is a cover vote, and I am not going to provide 
any cover. S. 5 is the only bill being discussed that will lift the 
restrictions that are impeding scientific research and can lead to new 
treatments and cures of many dread conditions and diseases. For the 100 
million Americans who suffer from diseases that could be treated as a 
result of stem cell research, there is simply no alternative to S. 5.

By supporting the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, we are renewing 
our faith in society's steady march forward. Whether expanding our 
frontiers, putting a man on the Moon, or mapping the human genome, 
America has always embraced great scientific challenges that hold even 
greater promise. It is who we are and it is a commitment to the 
American people that we must honor.

Jonas Salk, a great American scientist who moved science forward 
regarding the dread polio or, as they called it, infantile paralysis, 
when he invented the vaccine, once said, ''Our greatest responsibility 
is to be good ancestors.''

If we give our scientists the tools to succeed and give hope to the 
millions who suffer, we will be doing just that, good ancestors.

I yield any time I have.

Have the yeas and nays been ordered?