---
---

# None
## `bb243bcb057f0fae45157038a904528b`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 23 January 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, the reason I rise to take the floor is 
this afternoon--I think the Presiding Officer was present in the Armed 
Services Committee hearing when General Petraeus testified about the 
new strategy in Iraq. I hope that over time more Americans will be 
familiar with him and his view of what we can do to go forward.

In his testimony, General Petraeus clearly indicated we have made a 
lot of mistakes in Iraq. We never had enough troops to secure the 
country, and the debaathification program basically was a mistake. 
Other agencies involved in nationbuilding have not done their part. 
Militias have grown. The biggest event in the sectarian violence was 
the bombing of the Shia Golden Dome Mosque, and since that event, which 
was al-Qaida-inspired, we have been going backward instead of forward 
and the sectarian violence in Baghdad has gotten worse.

But General Petraeus believes this new strategy is not more people 
doing the same thing. It is a fundamentally different shift in policy. 
I agree with him and hope the country will listen closely to what he 
says. I have a lot of confidence in General Petraeus. I intend to 
support him.

I will not vote for any resolution that declares a strategy of 
failure before he has a chance to implement it because if we do that, 
it is going to be a very bad sendoff for our troops going into battle. 
It will embolden the enemy and weaken the moderates we eventually have 
to rely on in the Mideast to help us in the war on terror.

The strategy will be similar to this: We will be increasing 
reinforcements on all fronts. We have had enough military people in 
Iraq to clear territory but never hold it. We never lost a battle with 
insurgents. We can clear out a town or sector of Baghdad, but once we 
leave, we turn it over to an immature Iraqi Army or corrupt police 
force.

What we are doing by having 21,500 more troops is it doubles the 
combat capability of American forces in Baghdad to 17,500, and that 
will allow some soldiers to stay behind with the Iraqis to hold 
territory. Hold for what purpose? To give the political leadership in 
Iraq a chance to reconcile their differences through the political 
process.

Ask General Petraeus: Do you believe Iraq is part of the overall 
global war on terror?

I do.

If you believe it is a Vietnam which is a lost cause and not worth 
fighting for and we need to get out, don't pass a resolution condemning 
the action. Cut off funding. If you believe it is part of the global 
war on terror, as I do, we need to fight to win. I think that is 
exactly what we are trying to do. We are going to reinforce the 
military so we can hold, to give the Iraqi leadership a chance to 
reconcile the problems politically. I don't believe any political group 
could find democracy or common ground in this much violence. It is hard 
enough for us to find a solution to immigration and none of us being 
shot at. Can you imagine trying to reconcile a country oppressed by 
dictators for over 30 years with this level of violence?

If we can control the violence, I think it will lead to a better 
political result. They have to share the oil revenues with the Sunnis. 
The Sunnis have to have something to fight for, not against. That has 
to happen. At the end of the day, a million troops won't change Baghdad 
or Iraq if the Iraqi people are not willing to make the accommodations 
they need to make. They are under siege. They need reinforcements.

On the economic front, 70 percent of our casualties come from 
improvised explosive devices, somebody planting a bomb along the side 
of the road. Some people are planting those bombs because they don't 
have a job. They don't have any way to support their family, so they 
are taking money from the insurgents. Let's create an economy to give 
them an option other than planting bombs.

Secondly, some people are planting bombs because there is no 
downside. Once you get caught, you get released. We need a robust rule 
of law. If you want to change the way our troops are treated in Iraq, 
put people in jail for a very long time for attacking our troops. That 
will be a deterrent.

Finally, more military presence will put pressure on those making 
these explosive devices. This is a surge on all fronts. He is confident 
this plan will work. He understands the Iraqi political leadership has 
to do their part. The Iraqi military has to do their part. But the 
sectarian violence has come about because al-Qaida hit the motherload 
when they blew up the Golden Mosque. We cannot let al-Qaida win in 
destabilizing Iraq. They went to Iraq behind us because they understand 
that the consequences of success in Iraq are not confined to Iraq. If 
you can have a stable, functioning democracy that is tolerant, then it 
will spread to other areas of the Mideast and will be a mighty blow to 
the al-Qaida agenda.

We need to understand that a failed state in Iraq creates chaos for 
not just us but the world. Iran becomes a big winner. The south of Iraq 
becomes a puppet state of Iran. We could have a war between Turkey and 
the Kurds in the north. And if there is a bloodbath in Bagdad, which 
there surely will be if we leave, then Sunni Arab nations are going to 
get involved, and the whole region becomes much more unstable.

I urge my colleagues to listen to General Petraeus and ask the 
question: Do you have confidence in this man to do what he says he can 
do? And if the answer is yes, don't undermine him before he leaves. 
Give him the resources he needs. If you don't have confidence in him 
and our military and our leadership to change policy and strategy and 
be successful, don't let one more person go to Iraq to get killed or 
wounded in a lost cause. You should have the courage of your 
convictions to cut off funding. A middle-ground solution is the worst 
of all worlds.

Madam President, I yield the floor.