# None
## `bb28373db15b45181aff56cb80044793`
`Mr. WAMP — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her service to the 
Commonwealth of Virginia and to this great Nation of ours on the Armed 
Services Committee and for going and bringing us that unique insight.

As I prepare to yield to the gentleman from Georgia, let me say I 
think part of the equation for the Congress in a responsible, objective 
way in the days ahead is to remember that this is not all about Iraq. 
It is about the bigger picture with the global threat of the jihadists, 
the most radical elements of Islam, and the way that they are spreading 
their influence around the world outside even of the Middle East. I 
think we have to really understand that to know what the stakes are 
associated with the precipitous withdrawal or anything that is 
perceived to be a retreat.

These are real problems. It's easy to say, oh, George Bush got us 
into this war with flawed intelligence. It's also easy to forget that 
over half of the Democrats in the United States Senate voted to remove 
Saddam Hussein by force and almost half the Democrats in the House of 
Representatives voted to remove Saddam Hussein by force based on the 
very same knowledge and understanding that the executive branch had 
about what the threats were, and we made that decision as Americans.

It is really unfortunate today that decisions and responsibility for 
those decisions now end up being peeled off as partisan issues instead 
of, we do these things together, we stand together, we stand behind our 
troops together, we stand behind their mission together.

We had Members like Ralph Hall of Texas come back and say to a person 
the men and women in uniform told him while he was there that we should 
stay and finish what we started and not leave until we can successfully 
complete this mission. And you say, well, what is that and when will we 
know? Objectively, you're getting that report and it's much more 
positive than it was, and the stakes for leaving are incredibly high.

If you don't believe the influence of the radical Islamists around 
the world, I would encourage you to read Mark Steyn's book, ''America 
Alone,'' where he lays out what's happened in Europe and the influence 
with the global sharia, which is a call to Islamic law, and the 
intimidation and the threat around the world, or even this new book 
called ''Alms for Jihad: Charity and Terrorism in the Islamic World,'' 
by J. Miller Burke. He wrote this book exposing the connection between 
the Saudi royal family and terrorism through these charities that they 
set up and funnel money.

It reminded me of the Oil-for-Food scandal at the United States where 
Saddam Hussein corrupted the United Nations.



All of the corruption that exists through this radical effort, 
because this book that lays all this out can't be bought today. It has 
vanished from all of the Amazons. It has vanished from the availability 
of Barnes & Noble to find the book. What happened to it?

Well, through intimidation and money, they have taken this 
information out of circulation so the people can't see these 
connections.

They literally tie him, this man, Sheikh Khalid bin Mahfouz, to the 
charity that he set up to fund bin Laden with Saudi royal family money, 
and then when they published the book, it vanished. You can't get it. 
You can't go buy it.

Mark Steyn lays out, this is the kind of work that the radical Wahabi 
sect, the al Qaeda operatives, are doing in the world. They have 
infiltrated and corrupted, and we are like boiling frogs if we deny any 
longer how this threat is overtaking the free world. America Alone's 
premise is they've already got Europe and frankly Australia is really 
the only nation standing with us like they need to.

This is a growing global imminent threat. If we pull out, it will 
rapidly deteriorate in the world. Our credibility will be lost for 
generations. We may never regain it. Those are the stakes. That's 
bigger than Iraq. Iraq is one chapter in this long-term gener-
ational struggle for our freedom. The sooner we realize it, the better 
we are.

I went and spoke to kids in schools in August, and they asked the 
question about, well, Afghanistan and the Taliban attacked us, but 
Saddam Hussein in Iraq didn't attack us. Why did we go there?

The lesson of history is Germany didn't attack us, either. Japan 
attacked us. Germany didn't attack us. But did we ignore the threat of 
Nazi Germany? No. Our men stormed the beaches of Omaha and liberated 
Normandy and Omaha Beach, and liberated Europe, so that our way of life 
could be preserved. Sometimes they forget that, but that's American 
leadership. This is very, very similar to that.

Are we going to exert it in a world in what this editorial calls the 
caldron, you know, of the worst political and religious pathology in 
the history of the world in the Middle East? This is the central stage. 
We cannot retreat from this without us really, really taking a global 
hit.

The next president is going to inherit the responsibility of doing 
this, of carrying this forward.

I want to yield to the statesman from Georgia, a physician, a healer, 
a man with a great heart but a strong back, also a member of the Armed 
Services Committee, Dr. Phil Gingrey.