# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `bb46215fa5de70c49aa1bce098c1e198`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the majority chairman of the committee 
bringing this bill before the House because we do need the money, not 
for our troops at home, not for the basic bill, because that basic bill 
was signed by the President yesterday. What we need is to make sure 
that our troops in the field have the equipment that they need, the 
force protection measures they need, the body armor that they need, the 
MRAPs that they need, the ammunition they need, whatever they need to 
take on the enemy to accomplish their mission, to protect themselves 
while they are doing it. So I want to speak directly to the bill rather 
than to the politics or the history of the political aspect of this 
legislation.

Fifty billion dollars is a good number. I wish it would have been a 
little higher because I don't think it takes us all the way to where we 
need to be for a supplemental next spring as far as what we are doing 
in Afghanistan and Iraq, but the $50 billion that is in this bill, the 
dollars are good. What is provided by those dollars is needed for our 
troops in the field. That has to be the important decision that we make 
tonight: Are we going to fight a political battle here on the floor 
while our soldiers overseas are facing the enemy of terrorism? I don't 
think that is what we are here for today. I think we are here to pass 
this bill.

The gentleman from Wisconsin mentioned a policy change; that this 
bill is going to bring about a policy change. There was a policy change 
earlier in the year. Most everybody referred to it as the surge, and 
many Members of this body opposed the surge. But if you listened to the 
briefers this afternoon in the Rayburn building, that policy change has 
produced a lot of very positive effects.

So there was a policy change. But, nevertheless, whether you still 
support the policy change or not, that is up to everybody's individual 
decision. Despite what your position is on the war, on the battle, you 
have got to be prepared to provide for the troops that are there, 
whether you like the fact that they are there or not. I want them home. 
I want them home as soon as we can get them home.

Along with Chairman Murtha of the subcommittee, I have seen too many 
wounded soldiers and marines in our military hospitals. We have both 
attended too many funerals of our war heroes who were sent home after 
having lost their life on the battlefield. So I want this war over and 
I want our troops home as soon as we can get them home in victory; 
victory in a war that didn't start on September 11 and it didn't start 
in March of 2003 when we went into Iraq or Afghanistan. It started back 
in 1983, October 23 of 1983. Terrorists bombed our Marine barracks in 
Beirut. Those marines were there as peacekeepers, not as part of any 
other expeditionary force, other than to keep the peace, and 241 of our 
military marines and soldiers lost their lives there.

In 1993, the World Trade Center was bombed; in June of 1996, the home 
of the airmen in Saudi Arabia in the Khobar Towers were bombed, and 19 
of our airmen lost their lives. In August of 1998, our embassies in 
Kenya and Tanzania were bombed by terrorists and 11 Americans lost 
their lives and hundreds of others were injured. In October of 2000, 
the USS Cole, on a peaceful mission off the shore of Yemen, was bombed 
by terrorists and 17 lives were lost. All this started before September 
11, and of course I don't think anybody denies what happened to us on 
September 11. So this war started a long time ago, and this threat is 
basically the same threat that we saw starting in 1983.

I am pleased that sufficient funds are included for the Army 
operation and maintenance account to allow for 6 months of war 
operations. Other accounts would apparently allow for only 4 months of 
operations, however. The size of the package is secondary to the policy 
provisions that have been attached to the bill. Many Members have 
stated they cannot vote for war funding without language requiring a 
withdrawing from Iraq. The reality is most of them have already done 
that.

When we passed the Defense appropriations bill, the basic Defense 
appropriations bill for 2008, we provided transfer authority, large 
amounts of transfer authority so that if we didn't get a bridge fund 
passed, if we didn't get a supplemental passed, the Services could 
reach into their basic accounts to pay for fighting the war in 
Afghanistan and Iraq.

So those who voted for that bill have already voted to fund the war, 
whether they like it or not. That legislation has now been signed into 
law, so the money is there to borrow. We are going to start hearing 
about cuts in services at military bases here in the United States if 
we don't pass a supplemental or a bridge fund and the Services will 
have to borrow from their basic funds. We don't want that to happen. We 
don't want the Services to run short on anything that they have to do 
to provide for the security of our Nation.

So whatever your position on the war, whatever decisions are going to 
be


made about withdrawal from Iraq, this money, this $50 billion and more 
will be needed in the next 6 months and it needs to be passed.

This bill was only filed last night. Some of the provisions have not 
been sufficiently reviewed, in my opinion.



I have read this bill twice, word for word, and I am concerned about 
some of the sections of this bill.

Section 102 regarding interrogations says in part that ''nothing in 
this section shall be construed to affect the rights under the United 
States Constitution of any person,'' and I will repeat, ''any person in 
the custody or under the physical jurisdiction of the United States.''

Now, to me, that means that terrorists who we capture on the 
battlefield, who have been killing our own American soldiers on the 
ground, I read that to mean that they will be given the same 
constitutional protections as any citizen of the United States of 
America. And I object to that. I don't think they deserve the 
protection of the Constitution.

I wonder, does that mean we have to read the terrorists their rights 
under the Miranda ruling? Can they be released on a technicality? Can 
they get out on bail? Those are protections guaranteed to American 
citizens. Are we going to give terrorists that same right? Well, this 
bill says that we are going to give terrorists that same right. 
Terrorists go by no rules. They do not subscribe to the Geneva 
Convention and they do not deserve the same protection under our 
Constitution that our constituents enjoy.

I think this bill needs a lot of repair work before it can become 
law.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.