---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `bb54b7a356fb5d4f90ac8567bd3486e9`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I rise today to offer an amendment, an 
alternative to the amendment offered by Senator Sessions, an 
alternative that I think actually has a chance to help fix our broken 
immigration system.

My amendment would increase border security and enforce immigration 
laws without wasting our resources in unnecessary and potentially even 
dangerous ways. We have to be smart when we think about solutions to 
the immigration problem. We have to enact measures that do more than 
sound tough. They have to be tough. We have to consider the impact our 
legislation will have on other programs and other priorities, and we 
cannot just throw money and personnel at the border without thinking 
carefully about the consequences.

My amendment gets to the real heart of the problem. It provides for 
increased border security and increased enforcement of immigration 
laws. It gives us the manpower we need to address our immigration 
problems by providing for greater staffing for the Department of 
Homeland Security because the Department can't do its job if it simply 
doesn't have sufficient staff.

My amendment addresses the real root of the immigration problem: the 
incentive--the incentive for crossing


the border without a visa. It helps eliminate this incentive by getting 
tough on employers who hire undocumented immigrants. We know 
undocumented immigrants come to the United States--for what? They come 
looking for a job. They want a better life. They see an American 
paycheck as the means to get it. Well, without the draw of the job, 
without the draw of income, the motivation to risk it all to cross the 
border illegally dries up. Building a bigger, stronger, taller fence 
simply doesn't cut it because, as we all know, if there is a will, 
there is generally a way. Rather than create new obstacles that 
undocumented immigrants are going to try to figure out how to get 
around, we need to address the underlying motivation that is the magnet 
that drives them to migrate in the first place. The way to do this is 
to come down harder on the employers who provide them the incentive.

My amendment would do this by increasing criminal and civil penalties 
against employers who hire undocumented immigrants. It seems clear that 
today's penalties are not a sufficient deterrent for these companies. 
So my amendment sends them a clear message: we are going to hold you 
accountable for your actions. There are going to be real consequences 
for breaking the law.

My amendment would also prohibit employers who hire undocumented 
immigrants from receiving Federal contracts. There is simply no reason 
any company that receives a Federal contract should be breaking the law 
by hiring undocumented immigrants. It is interesting that there are 
some news stories about those who are actually building the wall doing 
exactly that. Isn't that ironic? The amendment I am offering isn't just 
about getting tough; it is about getting smart.

Senator Sessions and others on the other side of the aisle would not 
only build a bigger, longer, taller fence along the border--something 
we have seen which simply will not work on its own--they also want to 
deploy a significant number of our National Guard to help support the 
Border Patrol.

Let me say from the outset I am not at all opposed to sending 
reinforcements for the Border Patrol. I voted for those increases in 
the Border Patrol agents. They are understaffed and underfunded, and 
they need all the help they can get. What I am opposed to is taking one 
resource away from a desperate situation in order to give that resource 
to another allegedly desperate situation. Just like our Border Patrol, 
our National Guard is stretched thin. Right now, there are over 15,500 
members of the National Guard deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan. In the 
time between September of 2001 and November 30, 2007, close to 255,000 
National Guard troops have been deployed in support of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. This year, my home State of New 
Jersey, by way of example, will witness the largest deployment of 
National Guard personnel since World War II.

So before we rush to act, we should know what the impact of moving 
the National Guard would have on the safety of our troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan in terms of those needs. That is why my amendment would 
prohibit deployment of the National Guard--would ensure, I shouldn't 
say prohibit--would ensure that deployment of the National Guard to the 
borders could take place, but two important things would have to happen 
first. First, the Secretary of Defense would have to certify that the 
deployment would not negatively impact the safety of our troops in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. Second, the Governor of the home State of the National 
Guard must certify that the deployment would not have a negative impact 
on the safety and security of that home State. After all, protecting 
the people of the home State is the whole reason States have National 
Guard units in the first place.

We cannot endorse a policy that robs Peter to pay Paul. We have to 
think long and hard about the impact of taking resources away from Iraq 
or Afghanistan, taking resources away from the States that face the 
risk of natural disasters as big and as devastating as Hurricane 
Katrina. We have to know that taking these resources away will not hurt 
us more than it helps us. My amendment makes sure that before we act, 
we know what we are getting into.

Now, I do not disagree with every aspect of my colleague's 
amendments. In fact, there are two provisions in the Sessions amendment 
that I wholeheartedly support and they are in my amendment as well. I, 
as Senator Sessions, believe we can do more to remove those 
undocumented immigrants in our prison system who should be removed. 
That is why my amendment would evaluate the Federal, State, and local 
prison populations that are noncitizens in order to identify removable, 
undocumented immigrants.


I also believe, as Senator Sessions does, that we need to do more to 
implement the US-VISIT entry and exit data system to make sure we are 
keeping track of those who actually exit our country once their visas 
expire. That is why my amendment would help to implement the exit data 
portion of that program.

So I will close on this issue by simply saying it is interesting to 
see some of those who have some of the harshest rhetoric, as well as 
some of the harshest legislative initiatives, then come and say: But 
while I am doing this, we need ag workers, we need H-1B high-tech 
workers, or we need H-2B lower skilled workers. So they want their 
piece of the immigration pie, but they also want to portray themselves 
as sentries at the border. It just doesn't quite work that way. It just 
doesn't quite work that way.

Immigration is a difficult problem to tackle. That is something I 
think we can all agree on. Any solution needs to be smart, it needs to 
be tough, and it needs to be effective. That is what my amendment is--
smart, tough, and effective. It provides for enhanced, improved border 
security and enhanced enforcement of immigration laws, while allowing 
the Department of Homeland Security and the States to determine how 
best to use Federal resources. It provides support for our Border 
Patrol without threatening the safety or security of our troops serving 
overseas, or for that matter, people of our States. It gets to the root 
of the immigration problem by beefing up enforcement against employers 
acting illegally by hiring undocumented immigrants, the very essence--
the magnet--of what drives people to this country.

So I urge my colleagues to vote for this amendment when we have the 
opportunity tomorrow rather than the amendment offered by Senator 
Sessions. I think it gets to the heart of the problem that all of us 
are challenged to achieve.

Very briefly, let me move to one other issue while I still have time. 
I have said before that our debate over this budget is a fight for the 
economic future of America. The core of our economy is America's middle 
class: How productively they work, how much they save, how much they 
spend. It is clear as day, clear from the tsunami of foreclosures, 
clear from the reports that are coming in about thousands of people 
losing their jobs, clear from rising gas prices and health care bills 
and college tuition, it is clear that the middle class needs help.

What the middle class does not need is another round of tax giveaways 
for some of the richest members of our society in which their 
collective taxes are being used in a way that is disproportionate to 
those who least need it.

Budgets are about priorities; they are about choices. We have to 
choose. Are we going to do what many of my colleagues on the Republican 
side of the aisle are advocating and spend the people's money helping a 
billionaire avoid taxes when he bequeaths his mansion to his child or 
are we going to help out two parents who are struggling with the 
mortgage payments on a house for them and their children?

When Senate Democrats put together this budget, we made the choice to 
put middle-class families first. I am proud to join Senator Baucus in 
offering a responsible plan for expanded middle-class tax relief.

The amendment he is offering will take some of the pressure off the 
families who are most in need of help by providing $300 billion in tax 
relief for working families.

First, it provides tax benefits to members of America's armed 
services. It is up to us to make sure that when our men and women in 
uniform risk their lives overseas, they have some measure of financial 
security at home. This amendment would help those servicemembers in 
need by allowing combat pay to count toward eligibility for


the earned income tax credit. It would also provide additional relief 
to small businesses that continue to pay the salaries of National Guard 
and Reserve members who are called to duty.

The amendment extends relief to parents and married couples. It would 
expand the child tax credit to provide relief to more families, provide 
permanent relief for married couples from the marriage penalty, and 
make the 10-percent tax bracket permanent.

I am also especially pleased that this amendment includes a provision 
that I have worked closely in the past with Senator Baucus on expanding 
Federal tax relief for property taxes. It is a provision that would be 
welcome news to thousands of New Jersey families since property taxes 
are always a top concern. We would create a new standard deduction for 
property taxes that could benefit more than a half million New Jersey 
taxpayers alone, and could send $86 million to the people across the 
State. So that is only one example of how it is replicated across the 
country.

So I say to my colleagues: remember that American families are all 
watching us right now to see what we are going to do. Are we going to 
spend $51 billion to hand out tax breaks to Americans who are earning 
over $1 million a year? Or are we going to focus our resources, spend 
them wisely, to put tax breaks in the hands of those who need it: 
families, service men and women, and Americans who are working hard 
every day to achieve the American dream? Are we going to do the same on 
the amendment on immigration? Are we going to focus our resources 
against the very essence--the magnet--of what drives people to come to 
this country in an undocumented fashion and to make sure that our 
National Guard and Reserves are used the right way and to pursue the 
assistance of the Border Patrol where they ultimately need the help? 
Those are our choices. That is what we will have tomorrow.

I hope we will join together to give this responsible tax relief to 
middle-class families in America who need it most.

With that, I yield the floor.