# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `bb622a1e6a6177c1fe029866eebb08cf`
`Mr. ROGERS of Michigan — 18 June 2009`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, the motion to recommit contains 
language that I placed into the June 15, 2009, Congressional Record to 
prohibit any funds in this bill from being used by the Department of 
Justice to provide Miranda Rights to detainees in the custody of the 
United States military in Afghanistan.

House Resolution 544, the original rule for consideration of this 
bill, limited amendments to those received for printing in the portion 
of the Congressional Record of June 15, 2009, or earlier, designated 
for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Therefore, under the terms 
of House Resolution 544, the original rule adopted for consideration of 
this bill, my amendment was in order to be considered during the 
amendment process in the Committee of the Whole.

Mr. Speaker, it is my understanding that clause 2 of rule XXI of the 
rules of the House prohibits a limitation from being offered on an 
appropriations bill if it contains legislation. Since my amendment did 
not constitute legislating on an appropriations bill, my amendment 
would have been in order as a valid amendment during consideration of 
the Committee of the Whole.

However, the highly restrictive second rule that we operated under 
for consideration of amendments in the Committee of the Whole 
prohibited me from offering my amendment, an amendment that would have 
been in order under the rules of the House, despite the fact that I 
testified at the Rules Committee asking that I be allowed to offer it. 
Had my amendment been allowed to be offered during this consideration 
of amendments to this bill, this motion to recommit would not be 
subject to any parliamentary challenge.

Therefore, I ask the Chair to find this motion to recommit in order 
so that Members can consider this very important amendment to prohibit 
the extension of Miranda Rights to expected terrorists, non-U.S. 
citizens, captured on the battlefield in Afghanistan.