# DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `bb9139c8b576ffdaa861cabc5c5885ad`
`Mr. ROSS — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening on behalf of the 43 
Members that make up the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog 
Coalition. We are conservative Democrats, we are commonsense Democrats 
that want to restore fiscal discipline to our Nation's government.

Mr. Speaker, as you walk the halls of Congress, as you walk the halls 
of this Capitol and the Cannon House Office Building and the Longworth 
House Office Building and the Rayburn House Office Building, it's not 
difficult to know when you're walking by the door of a fellow Blue Dog 
member because you will see this poster that reads, ''The Blue Dog 
Coalition''. And it will tell you, it serves as a reminder to Members 
of Congress and to the general public that walk the halls of Congress 
that today the U.S. national debt is $8,807,559,710,099. And I ran out 
of room, but if I had a poster that was just a little bit more wide, 
Mr. Speaker, I would have added 85 cents.

Your share, every man, woman and child, including the children born 
today in America, if you take that number, the U.S. national debt, and 
divide it by the number of people living in America today, our share, 
everyone's share of the national debt is $29,174.38. It is what those 
of us in the Blue Dog Coalition refer to as ''the debt tax,'' d-e-b-t 
tax, which is one tax that can't go away, that can't be cut until we 
get our Nation's fiscal house in order.

Mr. Speaker, one of the first bills I filed as a Member of Congress 
back in 2001 was a bill to tell the politicians in Washington to keep 
their hands off the Social Security trust fund. The Republican 
leadership at the time refused to give me a hearing or a vote on that 
bill, and now we know why; because the projected deficit for 2007, 
based on the budget bill written when the Republicans controlled 
Congress, they will tell you is only $172 billion.

Not so. It's $357 billion. The difference is the money they are 
borrowing from the Social Security trust fund, with absolutely no 
provision on how that money will be paid back or when it will be paid 
back or where it's coming from to pay it back.

You know, Mr. Speaker, when I go down to the local bank in Prescott, 
Arkansas, and sit across from a loan officer and get a loan, they want 
to know how I am going to pay it back, when I am going to pay it back 
and where the money is going to come from to pay it back. It is time 
the politicians in Washington keep their hands off the Social Security 
trust fund.

The national debt, the total national debt from 1789 to 2000 was 
$5.67 trillion. But by 2010, the total national debt will have 
increased to $10.88 trillion. That is a doubling of the 211-year debt 
in just a decade, in just 10 years. Interest payments on the debt are 
one of the fastest growing parts of the Federal budget. And the debt 
tax is one that cannot be repealed.

People ask me, why should I care about the fact that our Nation is in 
debt? Why should I care that we continue to borrow billions of dollars? 
After all, it's future generations that are going to be stuck with the 
bill.

I submit to you, Mr. Speaker, that it should matter for a lot of 
reasons. But here is a good one right here: interest payments. Our 
Nation is borrowing about a billion dollars a day. We are spending 
about a half a billion a day paying interest on a debt we've already 
got before we borrow another billion dollars today.

I-49 is important to the people in Arkansas in my congressional 
district. I need nearly $2 billion to finish I-49, an interstate that 
was started when I was in kindergarten. That's a lot of money, at least 
for a country boy from Prescott and Hope, Arkansas. But I submit to 
you, Mr. Speaker, that we will spend more money paying interest on the 
national debt in the next 4 days than


what it would cost to complete Interstate 49 in Arkansas, creating with 
it all kinds of economic opportunities and jobs.

That's on the western side of my district. I represent about half the 
State.

On the eastern side of my district, I-69 is very important. I need 
about $2 billion to finish I-69. I-69 was announced in the State of 
Indiana, in Indianapolis, 5 years before I was born. That was 50 years 
ago. And with the exception of about 40 miles in Kentucky in a section 
they are now building from Memphis to the casinos, none of it has ever 
been built south of Indianapolis. $2 billion is a lot of money, but we 
will spend more than that in the next 4 days paying interest on the 
national debt.

As you can see from the chart here, in red, that is the amount of 
money, of your tax money, Mr. Speaker, that we will spend paying 
interest on the national debt this year. Compare that to how much we 
are spending on our children and their education.

You know, folks in this country come up to me all the time saying 
that English should be the official language. And I personally don't 
necessarily disagree with that. But let me tell you what people should 
be equally concerned about; they should be equally concerned about the 
fact that we have got more young people today in India learning English 
than in America. We've got more young people today in China learning 
English than in America. And it is not because they love America, it is 
because they want our jobs.

Mr. Speaker, it is absolutely critical that we provide our young 
people with a world-class education, and yet you can see we are 
spending a fraction on educating our children of what we will spend 
this year paying interest on the national debt.

You hear a lot of talk about homeland security. We all take off our 
shoes when we go through the airports. And I guess we feel a little bit 
safer, but look at what our real commitment as a Nation is to homeland 
security compared to what we are spending paying interest on the 
national debt. Homeland security is in the green, the red is the 
interest we are paying on the national debt.

And finally, veterans. We can talk about patriotism all we want, but 
I will tell you what, the rest of the world can look at America and 
determine how much we value our soldiers by how we treat our veterans.

And a whole new generation of veterans are coming home from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. How do we value them? The dark blue shows how much we are 
spending of your tax money, Mr. Speaker, on our veterans compared to 
the red, which is the amount we've been simply paying interest on on 
the national debt.

Where is this money coming from that we are borrowing a billion 
dollars a day? I have already told you, Mr. Speaker, a lot of it is 
coming from raiding the Social Security trust fund. Where is the rest 
of it coming from? Foreign central banks and foreign lenders.

That's right, Mr. Speaker. In fact, to put it another way, this 
administration has borrowed more money from foreigners in the past 6 
years than the previous 42 Presidents combined. Let me repeat that. 
This administration has borrowed more money from foreign central banks 
and foreign investors in the past 6 years than the previous 42 
Presidents combined.

Foreign lenders currently hold a total of about $2.199 trillion of 
our public debt. Compare that to only $623.3 billion in foreign 
holdings in 1993. Who are they? The top 10 list.

Japan. The United States of America has borrowed $637.4 billion from 
Japan to fund tax cuts in this country for people earning over $400,000 
a year, leaving our children with the bill.

China, $346.5 billion.

The United States of America has borrowed $223.5 billion from the 
United Kingdom.

$97.1 billion from OPEC. And we wonder why gasoline is $3.25 a gallon 
today in south Arkansas.

Korea, $67.7 billion; Taiwan, $63.2 billion; the Caribbean banking 
centers, $63.6 billion; Hong Kong, $51 billion; Germany, $52.1 billion.

And get a load of this. Rounding out the top 10 countries that the 
United States of America has borrowed money from to fund tax cuts in 
this country for folks earning over 400,000 a year and to fund the war 
in Iraq: Mexico.



Our country has borrowed $38.2 billion from Mexico to fund our 
government.

So debts do matter. Deficits do matter. And in this case, I submit to 
you, it is a national security issue.

So what do we do about it? As members of the fiscally conservative 
Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, we have got a plan. We have got a plan 
for budget reform. We have a plan to demand accountability in Iraq. We 
support our soldiers, and as long as we have soldiers in harm's way, we 
are going to make sure they are funded.

But this administration has acted like if you challenge them on how 
they are spending your tax money in Iraq, then you are unpatriotic. We 
are not going to stand for that anymore, because, Mr. Speaker, we 
believe that this administration and the Iraqi Government should be 
accountable for how $12 million of taxpayer money is being spent every 
hour in Iraq.

That is right, our Nation is spending $12 million of your tax money, 
Mr. Speaker, every hour in Iraq, and it is time that the Iraqis be held 
accountable for how that money is being spent. It is time we demand 
that they step up and accept more responsibility for training the 
Iraqis to be able to take control of their police and military force. 
And, yes, it is time that we demand more accountability from this 
administration on how this money is being spent on Iraq and ensure that 
it is being spent on our brave men and women in uniform.

John Grant of Pearcy, Arkansas, brought to my attention the fact that 
our soldiers may very well not be equipped with the most advanced and 
the best body armor that is made. I submit to you, Mr. Speaker, that we 
must ensure that the very best in body armor is being provided to our 
men and women in uniform. We have learned a lot about that in the last 
few days through an NBC investigative report. I am proud to tell you 
that over 40 Members of Congress, including a lot of my Blue Dog 
friends, have signed on to a letter to the administration, to the 
Pentagon, demanding that further tests be done, and that our men and 
women in uniform be provided with the very best in body armor.

I am joined by a number of fellow Blue Dogs this evening, and it is 
with great honor that I introduce at this time my friend, an active 
member of the Blue Dog Coalition from the State of Colorado, Mr. John 
Salazar.