# EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR DESIGNATION OF OCTOBER 2007 AS ``COUNTRY MUSIC  MONTH''
## `bb97a7d064ce4e49f125f238cd6a8530`
`Mr. POE — 29 October 2007`

---


Mr. POE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Tennessee for 
yielding me this time, and I am delighted the member from Tennessee, 
the country music capital, is a cosponsor of this bill.

I also thank the majority and Mr. Hinojosa for quickly getting this 
House resolution to the floor. I know there was some difficulty in 
doing it because of the timetable, but I appreciate it.

Mr. Speaker, country music is definitely a sound that is uniquely 
American because it speaks to the heart and soul of everyday Americans. 
It is about the ups and downs of everyday life, as well as the 
struggles individuals have in this country, and the struggles our 
Nation confronts as a country. They are exemplified gloriously through 
the gifted songwriting of our country music artists.

At no time is this more true than when songs are written during 
trying times for our country and for the unwavering support of our men 
and women who wear the uniform who are willing to fight and even die, 
if necessary, for this Nation.

Toby Keith sang in ''America Soldier'' about our troops. He said, 
''Up and at 'em bright and early, I'm all business in my suit. I'm 
dressed for success from my head down to my boots. I don't do it for 
the glory, I just do it anyway, providing our future's my 
responsibility. I will always do my duty. No matter what the price. If


dying's asked of me, I'll bear that cross with an honor, 'cause freedom 
don't come free.''

Through songs like Darrel Worley's ''Have You Forgotten,'' and Lee 
Greenwood's ''God Bless the U.S.A.,'' Alan Jackson's ''Where Were You 
(When the World Stopped Turning),'' Aaron Tippin's ''Where the Stars 
and Stripes and the Eagle Fly,'' Brooks and Dunn's ''Only in America,'' 
and Charlie Daniels' ''This Ain't No Rag, It's a Flag,'' and Chely 
Wright's ''Bumper of my SUV,'' the thoughts and emotions of everyday 
Americans rings out all across America through country music.



These musicians and their patriotic radio stations that air their 
songs of support for the military are to be commended for being on the 
front lines of encouragement to our remarkable, relentless troops.

Like many in this House, I've been to Iraq; but also many of our 
country music singers have gone overseas to Iraq and every other place 
where American troops are, at their own expense to show appreciation to 
our American military for their loyalty to the U.S.A.

It's fitting that we as a Congress take note of this and honor 
country music during the month of October. I urge adoption of the bill.