# RECOGNIZING DARLING'S AUTO
## `bb9f649c1d2ca2bc0b107a2250a5158e`
`Ms. SNOWE — 29 September 2010`

---

 Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, our Nation's 27.5 million small 
businesses all have their own unique characteristics and touching 
stories. Today, I rise to recognize the contributions of one of those 
small businesses from my home State of Maine--Darling's Auto that not 
only has provided exceptional service to greater Bangor but has also 
invested its time and heart into the community itself.

Darling's Auto has been ingrained in Bangor since 1903, when it first 
began selling cars, trucks, and bicycles. Over a century later, through 
hard work and care for the customer, Darling's Auto has become one of 
Maine's largest auto dealership groups, with additional locations in 
Brewer, Ellsworth, and Augusta. For over 100 years, Darling's Auto has 
provided Mainers with the vehicles they use every day to go to work, 
visit their loved ones, and embark on new journeys. Over the years, 
Darling's has employed hundreds of Mainers and has earned a reputation 
of excellence and integrity throughout eastern and central Maine.

Darling's Auto's rich history of perseverance and innovation alone 
would merit distinction. Yet, today, I honor Darling's Auto for an 
exemplary and magnanimous gesture that is truly inspirational. Maine is 
among the States with the highest percentage of military servicemembers 
per capita. When our servicemembers are deployed, the effects 
reverberate throughout families, businesses, and communities. 
Fortunately, Mainers have a reputation for taking care of one another 
in difficult times, and Darling's Auto certainly has fit that mold.

One of Darling's Auto's valued employees, Susan Maiden, is the mother 
of PFC Andrew ''Andy'' Chic. Susan typifies Maine's famed work ethic 
and independent spirit, values which she instilled in her son. Andy 
volunteered to join the National Guard and most recently was deployed 
to Afghanistan with Bravo Company, Third Battalion of the 172nd 
Infantry Division with the Maine National Guard. During his heroic 
service in Afghanistan, Andy's company was ambushed by insurgents.

On May 22, 2010, Bravo Company was conducting convoy operations with 
Private First Class Chic in the ''gunner'' position in the lead vehicle 
of a convoy--a Mine Resistant, Ambush Protected--MRAP--vehicle. Private 
First Class Chic's MRAP sustained two direct hits from rocket-propelled 
grenades, or RPGs, and other small arms weapons. While he was knocked 
down when the first RPG hit, he resumed his gunner position and 
returned fire against insurgents despite continuing RPG and small arms 
fire against his MRAP and the convoy. The vehicle was also carrying 
satchels of mail and care packages from family members in Maine, which 
absorbed some of the shrapnel and mitigated the injuries to Private 
First Class Chic and his fellow soldiers.

Following the barbaric attack, Andy was taken to Walter Reed Medical 
Center to address his wounds and for rehabilitation. Knowing the 
concern and anxiousness any mother would have in Susan's situation, 
Darling's Auto stood up and gave assistance to Susan. The company has 
provided tremendous support to Susan during her time of need by giving 
her extra time off to see Andy and even purchasing an EZ Pass to help 
with Susan's expenses when she would drive all the way to Washington, 
DC, to visit her son. In light of Darling's Auto's understanding and 
assistance, the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve will soon be 
presenting Darling's Auto with its ''Above and Beyond Award,'' honoring 
those who help Guard members and Reservists, and their families, in 
times of need. Given the tremendous care and compassion extended for 
Susan and Andy's well-being, I can think of no business more deserving 
of this tremendous recognition than Darling's.

Darling's Auto has been a consistent presence in the Bangor community 
for over a century, and the company has thrived over that time because 
it operates in a manner consistent with Maine values. Darling's has 
treated its customers and employees with honesty, respect, and 
compassion, building a legacy of trust. I am so often reminded of the 
empathy that Mainers demonstrate, and it always reaffirms my belief in 
the exceptional nature of our State and our Nation. I am proud of the 
incredible example that Darling's Auto has set by its notable acts of 
kindness, and I wish the company another 100 years of success in all of 
its endeavors.
