---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `bba4e2f34e8a1a59cbe278211aaa50af`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Chair, first I'd say that perhaps I'm here 
endeavoring on the impossible dream, and that would be if we could just 
simply use this great communication skill that we all have and use it 
to communicate, so that we could exchange ideas and be able to agree 
when we agree and disagree when we disagree on the fundamental 
philosophy that's there, not because we came to the floor to disagree, 
because we don't. We're not advocating here for permanent bases. And


there's nothing in the language of this amendment that advocates for 
permanent bases. This is a clarification that says we're not going to 
foreclose our responsibility to be able to negotiate temporary bases in 
Iraq or anywhere else. We've never had our United States military 
anywhere in the world where we didn't have some kind of temporary 
basing rights agreement. We have never had a permanent basing rights 
agreement anywhere. And we have closed many bases across Germany and 
Europe. We've done that. We'll do so, and we're doing so in Iraq. We've 
happened over a number of different bases. The last number I heard was 
33. It's probably many more than that into the hands of the Iraqis for 
their control. And so the message that needs to come from here, if 
we're concerned about the message that we're sending, we should stand 
up and say we agree. We don't intend to stay in Iraq permanently. We do 
agree that it'll require some temporary bases for us to carry out our 
operations there to protect our American troops that are there with the 
coalition and the Iraqi people. It's a prudent and a wise thing to do. 
Having a misunderstanding and a misconception is not a good thing to 
do. I think we agree on the policy. We should come together on the 
message.

Support this amendment, Madam Chair. And if we do that that will 
better, I believe, for the people in this country, for our military, 
for the Iraqi people. And as this unfolds, where the surge tactics are, 
they'll have the confidence that we stand with our military here in a 
prudent approach.

Madam Chair, I'd urge support for my amendment, and yield back the 
balance of my time.