# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `bba886c6a443933bf083e8171b400428`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 5 February 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I wish to first comment on the Finance 
Committee and the way that committee works.

First, we are on the floor of the Senate with a Finance Committee 
package in large part because we have two great Senators who have been 
a part of this Chamber, a part of this institution for a very long time 
and who make it their priority to get results. They transcend partisan 
politics for the public purpose for which they were elected.

It is in that vein that time and time again the packages we have 
brought forth from the Finance Committee have had both Democratic and 
Republican support as we have tried to move forward to confront the 
challenges that face our country today. This economic stimulus package 
that is before us today is no exception. It was voted out of the 
Finance Committee, a committee I am very proud to be a part of, with a 
bipartisan vote, in a bipartisan spirit, and with the sense that we 
needed to give a flu shot to this economy before it gets sicker; and 
with the sense that we need to help this economy go into a positive 
direction as opposed to getting further and further stuck in the ditch 
of disrepair, where it has been headed for the last several months.

So this is a very important package that comes before the Senate 
today, and we must remember its genesis in the Finance Committee is in 
fact a bipartisan genesis to respond to what the President has asked 
the Congress to do, not only in his State of the Union speech but even 
before that, when he said we need to have a stimulus package to help 
get our economy back on track. Well, we have done our level best to try 
to put together that package in the Finance Committee. I am proud to 
support it, and I hope that when we get to a vote on the Finance 
Committee package tomorrow, we are able to get Republicans and 
Democrats to stand together in a resounding positive vote for moving 
forward with this Finance Committee package. I hope the vote is not 
just a vote that gets us to 60 but hopefully gets us to 70 or 75.



Now, why is it important that we move forward and jump-start our 
economy? Well, it is important for the American families whose lives 
are very much affected by the actions we take on the floor of the 
Senate. It is important to embrace what the President and the House of 
Representatives have done, which is to say we ought to put money back 
into the pockets of the American consumer so they can spend that money 
which then helps create jobs in America and helps to stabilize our 
economy. But what the White House and the House of Representatives did 
in their negotiations with Secretary Paulson and others is something 
that can be improved on, and certainly the bipartisan work of the great 
team on the Finance Committee, which includes the staff of that 
committee, has brought forth what is a significantly improved package 
over what came out of the House of Representatives.

The first of those improvements has to do with dealing with those 
Americans who were left out: 20 million elders, 20 million seniors, 20 
million people who have given their lives to give us the opportunities 
we have in America today. I am speaking about those who came before us 
and who now depend on Social Security. The package out of the House 
excluded 20 million seniors because it says you have to have earned 
income in order to qualify for this tax check that is going to go out 
from the Government to the people of America. Why should we exclude 
these 20 million seniors who are receiving Social Security? Because 
Social Security is not earned income. Therefore, they are excluded 
under the provisions that came out of the House bill.

So if we are to honor what I believe is one of the fundamental values 
of America--that is to honor our elders, to respect our seniors--then 
it is important for us to make sure we change the package to include 
the 20 million seniors of America.

The one thing we do know, from what all the economists have told us, 
is that if you put this money into the pockets of 20 million elder 
Americans, those 20 million elder Americans are going to spend that 
money, which means it is going to help stimulate our economy. So that 
is one improvement.

Are there other improvements that could be made to this economic 
stimulus package? Well, the fact is there are other improvements that 
can be made. A second improvement we made in this package that we 
deliberated and worked out in the Finance Committee has to do with our 
disabled veterans. We have 250,000 disabled veterans in America today; 
250,000 disabled veterans. Many of these veterans are veterans from 
World War II, some of them from the Korean conflict, some of them from 
the Korean war, and some of them are part of the 1.5 million veterans 
who have served in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring 
Freedom.

Why should these 250,000 veterans not receive the benefits we are 
providing all the rest of America today? It makes no sense, in my view, 
if we are trying to stimulate the economy. We put, probably for a 
family of four, $1,600 checks into their pockets. They are going to 
spend this money to help stimulate the economy. It is the right thing 
to do for us to uphold the American values and to support our veterans 
here in America. It is absolutely the right thing to do.

It is also the right thing to do in terms of one of the objectives 
which we have, which is to help stimulate our economy. Third, when I 
ask the question, can we improve this bill--yes, we can improve it by 
adding 20 million seniors. We can improve it by adding the 250,000 
disabled veterans. But we can also deal with the reality of 
unemployment.

Maybe some people around here have not dealt with families that have 
been unemployed. But when you lose your job, you lose everything that 
creates a quality of life for you. Because you cannot take care of your 
family, you cannot take care of making your mortgage payment, you 
cannot take care of buying medicine for your children. And, yes, we 
have now States in America that are reaching an unemployment rate of 8 
percent, and the economists are saying there are a number of States 
that are going to be up into 6 to 7 percent before too long. So 
extending unemployment benefits is also an important improvement in 
this package.

But it is not that we can take care only of seniors and disabled 
veterans and extend unemployment benefits; there are other things, I 
believe, we can do to help make sure that we improve upon the stimulus 
package for America we are considering here today, and that is to help 
the business community of America, make sure that business community 
remains in a way where it can continue to create jobs for the people of 
this country.

The incentive we have created in this legislation with the expensing 
provisions relating to small business, with bonus depreciation for 
businesses that expend money on equipment, will help keep America 
strong. Without those businesses creating jobs for America, we are 
going to continue to spiral downward. It is important that we do that.

I want to point out one provision relating to our efforts to try to 
support the business community of America here today, and it has to do 
with housing. The other day when we heard from the many economists who 
have come before the Finance Committee, one thing was very clear. One 
of my colleagues, Senator Baucus, talked about how the housing crisis 
itself was a canary in the coal mine. It is a signal to us that our 
economy is in trouble. The housing sector of our economy demonstrates 
that perhaps in a way that very few other sectors of the economy do. So 
it is important that we do something for the housing issues facing our 
country today.

The chart that is here by me demonstrates what is happening with 
housing across America. You look at what Moody's said would happen in 
terms of what they forecast to be, where we will end up as we move 
forward into these difficult economic times with respect to the housing 
market.

They predict that housing prices will decline by 15 percent before we 
see bottom. How many people in America own a house, and how many people 
in America have most of their value tied up in that house? When you see 
these times of declines in housing values, you know the people of 
America, the people who are watching us debate here on the Senate 
floor, know there is pain in the economy here in America today. When 
you lose 15 percent of what is your most valuable asset, you know there 
is a major issue with the economy. So it is important that we address 
the housing issues of America, and we are doing that partially in this 
legislation by including revenue bonds. There are other things we are 
going that have to do with the housing crisis we face here in America.

It is my hope one of the things we are able to do is to come back and 
address the housing issues, along with energy, along with the farm 
bill, in a chapter 2 of our economic agenda in the Senate. But it is 
also important, as you look at this chart, to look at what is happening 
with housing starts in America. We are in the worst shape today in 
housing starts in America than we have ever been. In fact, those who 
are associated with the home building industry will tell you we are in 
worse shape today than we have ever been since the Great Depression. 
There is no end in sight when this housing crisis is going to end with 
respect to the decline in housing starts that we see.

The economists out of Moody's project that housing starts are down 60 
percent, at the bottom of this trough, with no end in sight. Who knows 
how far that will go down?

What we have done, spearheaded by Senator Conrad and with the help of 
Senator Stabenow and Senator Smith, is included in this legislation 
that will address the operating loss carryback provisions that apply to 
the housing industry. That economic injection will help the housing 
industry continue to stay afloat to weather the very troubled times 
ahead. Now, some people will say: Why are you bailing out the housing 
industry? Well, we are not bailing out the housing industry, we are 
trying to keep one of the sectors that is pivotal to a successful 
economy alive here in the United States of America.

Across my State, I know how many people work in the housing industry, 
from the roofers to the plumbers to those who put up the drywall. We 
know how many of them work. There are 300,000 people in America who are 
working in the housing industry today. So if the housing industry 
continues to go downward, if it continues to spiral


downward, we are going to see the bankrupting of one of the most 
important industries today.

This stimulus package does include some legislation that will allow 
them to take their carryback losses in a manner that makes sense for 
them economically so that they will not be forced into the halls of the 
bankruptcy court.

For a lot of reasons, I believe this stimulus package which is before 
us is a solid package. It is very significantly improved from what we 
were seeing come over from the House of Representatives. I would hope 
that the President of the United States, his Cabinet, Secretary 
Paulson, others, Secretary Gutierrez, join us in helping move this 
Senate Finance package through to the finish line.

The final point I would make is that though we hope we will get this 
package through, we know that our work here on the economic issues of 
America is not yet done. A second and short-term phase, which I believe 
we should undertake here in the next month or so, is we need to deal 
more comprehensively with the housing issues that face our country. We 
need to deal with the 2007 farm bill and get that through conference 
and get that done to ensure the food and fuel security of America.

We need to return to that Finance Committee-produced package on 
energy that would have fueled the clean energy future of America for 
the 21st century. We need to go to that as soon as we get the stimulus 
package through. I am hopeful that we will be able to move in that 
direction.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.