# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `bbcb4ff4a517aa4d3307092cb3675457`
`Mr. HOLT — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. HOLT. I thank the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Mr. 
Skelton, for joining me in this. And I also want to recognize the 
cosponsors, Mr. Bishop and Mr. Himes, for their support of this 
amendment, which seeks to address a serious gap in our military suicide 
prevention efforts, a gap that cost the life of one young constituent 
of mine, Sergeant Coleman Bean of East Brunswick, New Jersey, and has 
cost the lives of an unknown number of others.

During two tours of duty in Iraq, Coleman saw the horrors of war 
firsthand; and like others, he sought treatment for post-traumatic 
distress disorder when he returned home in 2004. Unfortunately, because 
Coleman was a member of the Individual Ready Reserve, neither the Army 
nor the VA would take the lead on treating him. Tragically, only months 
after returning from his second tour in Iraq, Sergeant Coleman Bean 
took his life in September 2008.

Our amendment seeks to prevent future such tragedies by requiring the 
Secretary of Defense to ensure that members of the IRR or those who 
serve as Individual Mobilization Augmentees who have completed at least 
one tour in either Iraq or Afghanistan receive a counseling call from 
properly trained personnel not less than once every 90 days so long as 
the servicemember remains in the IRR or as an IMA, to take whatever 
follow-up measures are required to help identify at-risk Reservists, 
and to report to Congress on the program's effectiveness.

I ask my colleagues to support this important and I think very 
necessary amendment.