---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `bbf1442e854c7194c6a7fb435e155d90`
`Mr. HARKIN — 20 May 2009`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Madam President, I wish to speak about the effort that 
seems to be underway here now--and I guess we will be having some more 
amendments this afternoon from the other side of the aisle--to prevent 
the President from addressing a serious national security problem: the 
continued operation of the detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

It is long past time we close this facility. On May 23, 2007, almost 
exactly 2 years ago, I introduced legislation to close that detention 
center. Since that time, unfortunately, it has only become more 
imperative that we act. It remains the case that there is simply no 
compelling reason to keep the facility open and not to bring the 
detainees to maximum-security facilities here in the United States.

This Nation has long been a beacon of democracy, a champion of human 
rights throughout the world. Over the past 8 years, however, we have 
repeatedly betrayed our highest principles. Torture was authorized in 
direct violation of the law, and we intentionally put detainees beyond 
the most basic rules of law, including secret tribunals where detainees 
lacked opportunities to challenge their confinement and lacked 
sufficient due process.

These errors are manifest in the detention center at Guantanamo Bay, 
where the very purpose was to avoid providing legal safeguards that are 
enshrined in our Constitution and the Geneva Conventions to detainees 
and to prevent independent courts from reviewing the legality of the 
administration's actions. That was the purpose of Guantanamo as a 
detention center. Now that the Supreme Court has definitively ruled 
that constitutional protections apply at Guantanamo, it truly serves no 
purpose.

Closing the facility, however, does not just follow from a commitment 
to our most cherished values and constitutional principles; rather, 
closure is essential for our national security. As long as the 
detention center at Guantanamo Bay is open, it remains a recruiting 
tool for those who wish to do us harm and provides ammunition for our 
enemies.



This is not just my view but is the view of military and foreign 
policy officials. The Director of National Intelligence, Dennis Blair, 
has said:




 The detention center has become a damaging symbol for the 


 world . . . it is a rallying cry for terrorist recruitment 


 and harmful to our national security, so closing it is 


 important for our national security.


That is from Dennis Blair, our Director of National Intelligence.

Former Navy general counsel Alberto Mora has said:




 There are serving U.S. flag-rank officers who maintain that 


 the first and second identifiable causes of U.S. combat 


 deaths in Iraq--as judged by their effectiveness in 


 recruiting insurgent fighters into combat--are, respectively, 


 the symbols of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo.


Retired Air Force MAJ Matthew Alexander, who led the interrogation 
team that tracked down Abu Mus'ab al-Zarqawi, the leader of al-Qaida in 
Iraq, said:




 I listened time and time again to foreign fighters, and 


 Sunni Iraqis, state that the number one reason they had 


 decided to pick arms and join al-Qaida was the abuses at Abu 


 Ghraib and the authorized torture and abuse at Guantanamo 


 Bay.


Let me repeat that. Matthew Alexander, a retired Air Force major who 
led the interrogation team who tracked down the leader of al-Qaida in 
Iraq said this.




 I listened time and time again to foreign fighters, and 


 Sunni Iraqis, state that the number one reason that they had 


 picked up arms and joined al-Qaida was the abuse at Abu 


 Ghraib and the authorized torture and abuse at Guantanamo 


 Bay.


It cannot get much clearer than that. Colin Powell, Henry Kissinger, 
Madeline Albright, James Baker, Warren Christopher have all called for 
Guantanamo to be closed, as has Secretary of Defense Gates and Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs Admiral Mullen.

As former Secretary of State Colin Powell said:




 Guantanamo has become a major, major problem . . . if it 


 were up to me, I would close Guantanamo not tomorrow but this 


 afternoon.


That was Colin Powell.

Indeed, even President Bush repeated time and time again his desire 
to shut down Guantanamo, I am sure because of all the information that 
was given to him by his Joint Chiefs of Staff and by his intelligence 
services. So President Obama should be applauded for taking a step that 
military and foreign policy officials insist will directly and 
immediately improve our national security.

The President has set up a special task force to review the status of 
the detainees remaining at Guantanamo and to make recommendations on 
what to do with these individuals. The administration faces some 
difficult decisions it inherited from the previous administration.

Guantanamo was conceived--Guantanamo as a detention center, I should 
say, was conceived outside the law. And bringing detainees back into 
our legal system, as the Supreme Court has rightly found necessary, 
involves some very difficult policy issues.

I, myself, greatly look forward to the President's plan, and I will 
judge it carefully. Closing Guantanamo and simply replicating the same 
deficient legal process in the United States would be purely symbolic 
and meaningless.

As the administration undertakes its review of the detainees at 
Guantanamo and considers the most appropriate way to close the 
facility, the last thing Congress should do is handcuff the President.

What I am hearing are some arguments on the other side of the aisle 
basically saying, through these amendments they are offering, 
Guantanamo Bay should remain open. That is the thrust of the 
amendments: Guantanamo should remain open.

Make no mistake, if these amendments become law, the President's 
ability to take the step that military and foreign policy officials--
Republicans and Democrats and Independents alike--have all said is 
needed will be very difficult. It will be difficult for the President 
to take the steps necessary to close Guantanamo Bay. Al-Qaida and those 
who wish to cause us harm will continue to have a major recruiting tool 
at their disposal.

I would not say this is the intention of the people offering those 
amendments, but listen to what our intelligence officers have said and 
what our military officers have said, that the biggest recruiting tool 
for those in Afghanistan and the Taliban and al-Qaida is a continued 
detention center at Guantanamo Bay.

So while it may not be the intention of those people offering the 
amendments to have this as a recruiting tool for al-Qaida and the 
Taliban, those who have been in our intelligence service tell us that 
is, in fact, what is happening. It is the biggest recruiting tool for 
those who wish to do us harm. While it may not be the intention of 
those offering the amendments, that is what is going to be the 
practical effect, if those amendments are adopted.

One other thing. President Obama's decision to close Guantanamo Bay 
is already starting to pay some dividends. Countries such as Portugal 
and Ireland have made offers to join Albania in accepting detainees who 
cannot be returned to their home countries.

Just last week, France accepted Lakhdar Boumediene, an Algerian 
suspected in a bomb plot against the Embassy of the United States in 
Sarajevo. The assistance of our allies is critical. Yet to obtain that 
assistance will only be more difficult if we, ourselves, are unwilling 
to do what we ask our allies to do; that is, to accept detainees on our 
own soil in secure detention facilities.

We say: Oh, no, we cannot take them here but, France, you can take 
them and, Ireland, you can take them, and Portugal. They will say what 
kind of fairness is there in that?

Indeed, I feel the statements and the arguments of many on the other 
side of the aisle are simply to scare the American people, unduly scare 
the American people, and spread this kind of fear and misinformation by 
suggesting that closing the facility at Guantanamo Bay will somehow 
mean the terrorists will be walking Main Street or, as the junior 
Senator from Arizona claimed: Khalid Shaikh Mohammed and his partners 
will be our neighbors--will be our neighbors if they are in secure 
detention facilities.

This is the kind of language that rightfully gets Americans fearful 
that they are going to be our neighbors. Well, the fact is, those 
individuals who can be tried in Federal court can and will be 
vigorously prosecuted. Federal courts have successfully prosecuted 
terrorists in the past. In fact, between September 12, 2001, and the 
end of 2007, 145 terrorists were convicted in American courts. How many 
American people know that, that 145 were convicted in American courts.

Likewise, U.S. prisons are already holding some of the world's most 
dangerous terrorists in the United States. Ramzi Yousef, the mastermind 
of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, is in jail in the United 
States.

Zacarias Moussaoui, the 9/11 coconspirator, is in jail in the United 
States; Richard Reid, the ''shoe bomber,'' in jail in the United 
States. Several al-Qaida terrorists responsible for bombing Embassies 
in Kenya and Tanzania are in jail in the United States.

The men, women, and military officials who run these facilities have 
a proven track record. I ask those who are saying that Khalid Shaikh 
Mohammed and his partners will be our neighbors, I ask them: Can you 
point to any prisoner who has escaped from a Federal maximum security 
facility? Point to one. Just point to one.

Well, we have no greater duty than to protect the American people. 
That is the oath we all take. National security is our first job. In 
this regard, the President is undertaking a process that will result in 
the closing of a national stain on our character and a recruiting tool 
for those who wish to do us harm.

He is taking a step our military and foreign policy officials make 
clear will make us safer. The President should not be handcuffed and 
should not be prevented from improving our national security, as the 
other side in those amendments wish to do.

Finally, we must never forget that people around the world know we 
are right and the terrorists are wrong. Of the 5 or 6 billion people 
who live in the world, only a handful think the terrorists are right. 
All the rest are on our side. They know we are right and the terrorists 
are wrong.

If we wish to defeat the terrorists, therefore, we should remain 
faithful to our ideals and our values. We will not win this war with 
secret prisons, with torture chambers, with degrading treatment, with 
individuals denied basic human rights.



Rather, we will win this by upholding our values and insisting on 
legal safeguards that are the very basis of our system of Government 
and democracy. It is time to close Guantanamo Bay. There is no reason 
to keep it open and every reason, for our national security, to shut 
its doors.

I yield the floor.