---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `bbf1ff1603d5d8142610ab2b14a4d197`
`Mr. MARSHALL — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. MARSHALL. I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Speaker, we are debating today a nonbinding resolution to 
disapprove the Iraqi-American military surge in Baghdad. We do so 
knowing Congress cannot manage a war, let alone micromanage one. We do 
so knowing the surge has begun, and we will continue despite our debate 
and vote. We do so hoping our debate will not discourage those called 
upon to execute the surge, but we also do so knowing that it might.

Mr. Speaker, that is enough for me to oppose the resolution. I will 
vote ''no'' on the anti-surge resolution, despite the fact that for 3 
years now I have


consistently contended that we should have fewer troops in Iraq, not 
more. Clearly, the surge is inconsistent with my general view with how 
to make our effort in Iraq sustainable and winnable.

But the anti-surge resolution is akin to sitting on the sidelines 
booing in the middle of our own team's play because we don't like the 
coach's call. I cannot join mid-play naysaying that might discourage 
even one of those engaged in this current military effort in Baghdad.

To those soldiers and marines who are engaged, I would say the 
following. Don't be discouraged by this debate and vote. It is birthed 
by the very democracy that you are defending. If you are successful, 
Iraqis may one day enjoy the same right to debate and vote like we are 
debating and voting. If they do, they may well look back at you as 
having birthed that right for them.

Nearly 40 years ago, I was a grunt platoon sergeant in Vietnam, a kid 
who dropped out of college and enlisted specifically to go to Vietnam. 
And at the very time that I was fighting insurgents in Vietnam, our 
country was torn by antiwar protests and debate. I didn't worry about 
that. You should not either. I didn't let it discourage me. You should 
not let it discourage you. You should simply do your duty and be proud 
of the fact that you have done it. Do it to the best of your ability.

I made tons of mistakes, failed many, many times to do what I should 
have done. But do what you can to discharge your duty on behalf of the 
country and let others, the President and the Congress, debate what 
that duty actually is. There are legitimate differences of opinion in 
the United States among the leadership concerning the best way forward 
in Iraq, how to get to the best possible result. Don't worry about 
that.

No doubt you have your own ideas. I certainly did when I was in 
Vietnam. While in combat in Vietnam, I was convinced that the tactics 
that we were using needed to be dramatically changed. But, 
nevertheless, I continued to do the best I could as I was instructed to 
do.

I gave a eulogy for Sergeant Victor Anderson of the Georgia National 
Guard about 2 years ago, 39 years old, disqualified because of diabetes 
when the National Guard was called up. He fought his disqualification, 
he went to Iraq.

The week before he died, hit by an IED, he saw some of his men 
killed. He sent an e-mail back to his family. In that e-mail, he 
explained this, people ask me why I fight. I do not fight for some 
ideology. I fight for that man to my left and the one to my right. They 
are men of their honor. When called, they responded and did their duty. 
They did not run away. If you believe in nothing else, believe in them.

It is that kind of spirit that I hope you have. I hope, in fact, that 
I can look at you when you come back from Iraq and be as proud of you 
as I am of so many others who have fought for us in Iraq and elsewhere. 
I am a good bit older. It has been 40 years since I was in combat. When 
I look back at combat, I remember the things that I failed. I forget 
the things that went particularly well.

Don't fail, do as well as you can. Don't be discouraged by this 
debate, and we will continue to have additional debates. There will be 
laws, et cetera, passed. Just do your duty as best you can.

