# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `bbf67b2278f0ebcab29b7e281d4f63d4`
`Mr. SHAYS — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. I thank the gentleman from Virginia for yielding and I 
appreciate the fact that he is supporting this bill but that he is 
trying to point out areas that it could and should be improved, which 
is part of what should happen in the debate in Congress.

Mr. Price, I appreciate what you are attempting to do. I think your 
motives are where they need to be. I think you are trying to make sure 
that our country is being responsible in dealing with an issue that is 
very serious.

I do rise in support of this legislation which will provide, 
hopefully, greater accountability for unlawful acts contractors may 
commit abroad. I chaired the National Security, Emerging Threats and 
International Relations Subcommittee of the Government Reform 
Committee, or now the Government Oversight and Reform Committee, and 
the issue of private security contracts was the subject of a hearing we 
held in June of 2006. In addition, the Oversight and Government Reform 
Committee held a hearing on security contractors yesterday.

Private security contractors in Iraq do many of the jobs our military 
used to do and provide incredibly valuable services for our military. 
They build facilities and structures. They build roads and bridges. 
They build waterworks. They provide electricity. They deliver supplies 
to our troops. They are cooks. These are all things the military might 
have done in the past, but we think that is not a good use for the 
military. They also provide security, protective security. That is what 
they do. It is a distortion if the implication is that we have more 
contractors than military, that the contractors who are there are doing 
military work. A lot of them are just building things and guarding 
bases and all the things that I have just mentioned.

Now, there are several major challenges that have developed as our 
military has increased the use of private security contracting. The 
first problem


has to do with the transparency of contractor operations. A December 
2006 report by Government Accountability Office, GAO, noted that the 
Department of Defense, DOD, ''continues to have limited visibility over 
contractors because information on the number of contractors at 
deployed locations or the services they provide is not aggregated by 
any organization.'' Now, this bill is not dealing with that.

Another problem is that private security contractors do not operate 
under any clear legal authority in foreign countries, which this 
legislation seeks to address. PSCs contracted through DOD are 
accountable under both the Uniform Code of Military Justice and under 
civilian law through the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act. 
The majority of private security contractors, however, are not 
contracted through DOD but through other agencies like USAID or the 
Department of Interior.

Now, regarding the contractor Blackwater U.S.A. which has come under 
scrutiny in recent weeks, these employees do extremely difficult jobs 
under very difficult circumstances. They risk their lives to protect 
Americans who are doing work in Iraq. I want to say it again. These are 
former, in most cases, military personnel, so somehow because they are 
no longer involved in the military, paid by the military, their lives 
don't seem to matter as much in this place.

Forty-one of Blackwater U.S.A. personnel have died taking a bullet 
for some American. It is amazing to me the number of men in Blackwater 
that have lost their lives and we never hear it on the other side of 
the aisle. Blackwater is evil. That is the way it appears in all the 
dialogue, all the press releases and so on. So when they were before 
our committee yesterday, we asked them a question: How many of the 
people you protected in 2004 were protected? Did any lose their lives 
or were any wounded? None lost their lives or were wounded. In 2005 did 
any lose their lives or were any wounded? None in 2005 lost their lives 
or were wounded. In 2006, we asked, did any of these individual lose 
their lives that they were protecting or were injured? Except for a 
concussion with IEDs, no one. Then in 2007, did any of these 
individuals you protected lose their lives or were injured? No one lost 
their lives. No one was injured.

But when we asked in 2004, did any of your Blackwater employees lose 
their lives? Yes. We asked in 2005, did any lose their lives? Yes. In 
2006, did any lose their lives? Yes. In 2007, did any lose their lives? 
And the answer was yes. Forty-one of these individuals have lost their 
lives. They have protected USAID employees. They have protected other 
individuals who have to get outside the Green Zone. Yes, they have 
protected Members of Congress. But we are just a small part of their 
responsibility. They would take a bullet for us. And they have. I just 
want to be on record that that is the case.

It is important that we resolve this issue and that we make sure that 
the lines are clear, but I will just end by saying this. I was going 
into Gaza City, and private contractors employed by USAID took me 
there. A month later, one of these vans was destroyed. I knew all four 
people in this van, and they were killed. A month before, they were 
trying to protect us. They are risking their lives. I would like very 
much if in this debate we could show a little respect for the 41 men 
and women in Blackwater who have lost their lives.

Finally, I am concerned about poor coordination between military and 
battlefield contractors.

A June 2006 GAO report found that:




 ''private security providers continue to enter the battle 


 space without coordinating with the U.S. military, putting 


 both the military and security providers at a greater risk 


 for injury.''


Improved coordination is needed to provide PSCs guidance on rules of 
engagement, equipment needs, communication, and force protection 
expectations.

I recognize the Administration has some serious and valid concerns 
about this legislation.

It is concerned the jurisdiction of criminal prohibitions would 
depend on vague notions of ''proximity'' to poorly defined regions, and 
might give rise to litigation on jurisdictional issues.

It is also concerned that the expansion of extraterritorial 
jurisdiction would create Federal jurisdiction overseas in situations 
where it would be impossible or unwise to extend it.

Finally, the Administration is concerned about the additional burdens 
it will place on the FBI and Department of Defense.

In my judgment, the concerns raised by the Administration are items 
we can work on as this much-needed legislation works its way through 
the legislative process.