---
---

# COMMEMORATING THE PERSIAN GULF WAR
## `bbfae1df711d6ca14b18b27908277835`
`Mr. BUYER — 17 November 2010`

---


Mr. BUYER. I thank the gentleman from Illinois, and I also thank you 
for your friendship and your personal counsel over the years. Likewise, 
I am so pleased that your wife continues to do well.

And to my friend, Mike Michaud, Mike--if I may have the latitude to 
address him by his first name, Mr. Speaker.

I don't mean to be nostalgic here for the moment, but I think when 
Members look back, they really don't remember all the difficult and 
challenging moments, they remember the things that really bring joy to 
their life. And one of the joys that I have in life is getting the 
opportunity to meet some real genuine people. And that's what Mike 
Michaud of Maine is.

You are a genuine human being and it is your nature, it is your 
character,


it is your moral compass, the reason I use the word ''genuine.'' You 
are truly one of the individuals that I will miss when I look back at 
Congress. I really will, Mike.

I only wish your conference had made you chairman of the Veterans' 
Affairs Committee, I really do, because you and I could have done a lot 
of great things together.

In reality, the unwritten history will be the success of the 
committee occurred not by your current chairman, but because of the 
work-around solutions that we were able to do, by you and I working 
together, with Stephanie Herseth and the Sergeant Major and Vic Snyder. 
So history may not credit you, Mr. Michaud, for all the things you've 
done, but I'm going to stand on the floor and let everybody know all 
the great things that you have done for veterans in this country, and I 
am very proud of you. So as I stand here and I think of not only 
myself, but I think about my colleagues, I want to make sure that you 
deserve the full measure.

When I think about over 20 years ago, frankly, Saddam Hussein was 
pretty stupid. He decided to take seven of his Iraqi divisions and he 
invaded Kuwait. He committed incredible atrocities upon the people of 
Kuwait, and raped and pillaged the city of Kuwait City.

And when the President then immediately sent the 101st and the 82nd 
Airborne divisions as a blocking force to then protect Saudi Arabia, 
they had to build up the logistics of Saudi Arabia itself and activate 
reservists. Not since World War II had there been such a deployment, 
not only of the air, but of the sea and the activation of the Guard and 
reserve and bringing Seventh Corps out of Europe.

You see, Saddam Hussein decided to pick a fight, and he also then 
took on the United States at a time when the United States was its 
strongest. We had completed the Reagan build-up. Reagan built up our 
forces. A lot of good judgments were made back in the latter part of 
the 1970s and 1980s. Les Aspin, then the chairman of the committee, 
even though he made some policy changes with regard to how soldiers 
were going to be paid, and those pay issues got resolved later, in the 
latter part of the 1990s, Les Aspin, and then the Democrat control of 
the Armed Services Committee, though, worked then with Ronald Reagan 
and built up our force. And that was about standing down the Soviet 
Union. So as we then stood down the Soviet Union, we had a military 
that was extraordinarily powerful. And Saddam Hussein took on America 
at a time when we were the most powerful.

Now, with regard to our combat experience, the combat experience for 
the Gulf War was truly also of value, in that our senior level 
leadership, the senior NCOs, the First Sergeants, the Sergeants Major, 
the Colonels, the General Officer Corps, the Admirals, they were 
Vietnam veterans. So as we went into Operations Desert Shield/Desert 
Storm, the leadership in that war, they said, well, we know what 
happened during Vietnam, and they always prided themselves that if they 
ever got themselves in another fight they were going to do things 
differently. So there was going to be no such thing as rotation. That's 
what happened in Vietnam.

So when we arrived in theater in the first Gulf War, duration was the 
theme, not rotation, meaning we will be here so long as it's necessary 
to throw Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait. As it turns out it was 100 days. 
That was a 100-day ground war. What isn't counted, though, is 
everything that it took to pull off a 100-day ground war.

Bringing out so many of the guardsmen and reservists was 
extraordinary. What was amazing about all this is that that type of a 
call-up of all the guardsmen and reservists to then support the active 
elements actually was bringing America to the war. When you pull out a 
teacher, you pull out someone who leads the church choir, you pull out 
someone who is the butcher and the baker and you then send them to war, 
you're bringing America to war. And America really at the time was a 
little shocked.

I mean, some of us, for myself the call-up was in 3 days. I got a 
notice and I was gone in 3 days. And it was a pretty extraordinary 
moment, not only in my life but in a lot of people's lives.

When I think back at all of this, I really compliment the 
extraordinary leadership, not only of then Dick Cheney, but also of 
Colin Powell and Norman Schwarzkopf. But I also look back with great 
pride of the men and women in theater. I believe that the active duty, 
of whom had always sort of looked down and chastised the reserve 
components, had new respect for the reserve components. And I look back 
at the Persian Gulf War, it was a defining moment, I think, at the time 
for our country.



With regard to the veterans, Mr. Michaud, you are absolutely correct. 
With a number in excess of 170,000, when you think of the number of 
those of us that actually went--I don't know the exact number, probably 
around 700,000 of us that went--that is a very large percentage that 
have some form of an illness.

I was pretty startled by all this. I do recall what it took to sort 
of expose that some bad things had happened; the fact that we had blown 
up one of the Army depots that contained some mustard and sarin gas, 
and that plume was so large that it went over tens of thousands of not 
only our own troops, including myself, but also about 10,000 of the 
U.K. And to think that the DOD was not forthcoming with that 
information to our veterans for a long time is very disturbing.

I do recall, when I got home I did not have the physical strength to 
even run down to the end of the lane. That is only about 1,000 feet. 
And here I am, 30 years old, physically fit, come back from war and I 
don't have the physical capacity. Something had happened to me, and I 
didn't know what it was. I do recall that my wife wanted me to go down 
to the VA or to go to the doctor, and I refused to do it. I refused to 
do it because, I said, Joni, if I go, they're just going to say it's in 
my head. I made it up. It's not real. Yet something had happened to my 
body.

When I then came to Congress, I can assure you when I look back at 
it, and all of us know when you run for Congress it takes about a year 
and it takes a lot out of you physically, and I was very sick during 
that 1 year when I first ran for Congress. When I got here, I decided 
that I had to accept and get out of the denial mode and step forward 
and provide voice to a lot of my comrades, and that is what I chose to 
do.

It is very difficult, especially all of us as public figures, to be 
willing to step forward and put a face, especially your own, on 
something like that. But I chose to do that. I remember working not 
only with the gentleman from Illinois but also Joe Kennedy at the time. 
That is one of the first things I learned about politics, too. When you 
take someone like Joe Kennedy and you marry him up with Steve Buyer, 
when we brought something to the floor, nobody voted against it.

So the things we were able to do by opening the VA to make sure that 
these veterans got their access to health care, then creating the 
compensation for undiagnosed illnesses, that was pretty radical. But we 
knew that something wrong had happened, and we wanted to make sure that 
our compassion was real, so let's make sure we take care of the 
families. And that is exactly what we sought to do.

I want to congratulate the gentleman for bringing this resolution. We 
have moved on to the second Gulf War, and now we are beginning to 
complete Iraq and we are still in Afghanistan. It is almost as though 
we have forgotten what happened to the veterans in the first Gulf War, 
and so many of them continue to suffer from these physical ailments. So 
when you take a moment like this, you are really saying unto the 
American people, ''Hey, we've still got some concerns. We still have 
some very real challenges out there.'' And as I leave, I know that my 
comrades are in good hands.

So I want to thank all of you for supporting the VA and for 
supporting my comrades. They were there for us and you remember, and 
for that I am forever grateful. Thank you and Godspeed.