---
---

# None
## `bc01ce846dd0f7f11b36996bd3b6437d`
`Mr. McCAIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Passed after a cloture vote and/or other 60-vote 
requirement in 2005, seven; passed after a cloture vote and/or a 60-
vote requirement in 2006, 10; defeated by cloture or 60-vote 
requirement, also in 2006, 10.

It is clear that when the Senator from Illinois was in the minority, 
they used the 60-vote provision as well, and that is their right to do 
so. I don't in any way object to their having done that. I do object 
strenuously to somehow conveying the impression that this is a 
''filibuster'' because we require 60 votes, that this is some Earth-
shattering, precedent-shattering procedure. In fact, it is not. In 
fact, the Senator from Illinois knows very well that 60 votes is often 
required, whether it be a budget point of order or whether a cloture 
vote, and it has been used quite often by the minority as a tool to 
assert their rights as the minority. I understand that.

The Senator from Illinois talks about the bill that this has to be 
on. This is either the eighth or ninth time we have brought up Iraq. He 
didn't need the authorization bill to do it then. It is the right of 
the majority to bring up whatever they want, whenever they want. I can 
assure my colleagues, the Defense authorization bill will probably not 
be on the floor in September, and one thing I am pretty confident of is 
that we will be taking up the issue of Iraq in September. So to somehow 
say that this is appropriate, it is not appropriate because it is 
controversial, and we know it will not be passed with a provision that 
requires what the Senator from Illinois wants on it. It will never 
become law because the President will veto it in the unlikely--in fact, 
highly unlikely--situation where this bill was passed by both Houses of 
Congress.

What we are doing--have no doubt about it--is keeping the 3.5-percent 
pay raise from going into law. We are keeping the wounded warrior 
legislation from being enacted by both Houses and us acting as quickly 
as possible. The Senator from Illinois, I believe, and all other 
Senators voted on behalf of the nomination of General Petraeus in 
February, knowing full well what General Petraeus's strategy was. That 
was


very well articulated. So now we find ourselves some months later 
saying: Well, we have to end it.

The distinguished majority leader, who is no longer on the floor, 
declared the war lost. I was astonished. Because if we lost the war, 
then somebody won. Does that mean that al-Qaida has won the war? I 
don't think the 160,000 young men and women who are serving in Iraq, 
whom I visited about a week ago, think the war is lost. I don't think 
the majority of Americans do either. Are they frustrated by what has 
happened here? Of course, they are frustrated. They want to bring it to 
an end. But it is the obligation of people such as me to point out what 
happens when we withdraw in 120 days.

Literally, in the view of every expert on national security, we will 
pay a much heavier price in the long run. Chaos, genocide will ensue. 
Quite often I hear from the other side: What is plan B, if the surge 
doesn't work?

What is plan B if the withdrawal results in chaos and genocide in the 
region? According to most experts--including Henry Kissinger, Brent 
Scowcroft, General Zinni according to most people who have spent their 
lives on national security issues, it will be chaos and genocide. What 
is plan B there?

I hope after the show is over tomorrow morning sometime--and it is 
clear to all that we will not set a 120-day withdrawal date from Iraq 
on this legislation--we will then be able to sit down and move forward 
on the bill so that we can get it passed into law. That is what we 
should be doing. To somehow think that we have not required, as the 
majority leader on many occasions required, 60 votes for passage of an 
amendment or legislation, of course, flies in the face of the clear 
record which I have just asked to be printed in the Congressional 
Record.

America is now at a crossroads. America is now at a point where, 
according to Natan Sharansky:




 A precipitous withdrawal of U.S. forces could lead to a 


 bloodbath . . .


From Anthony Zinni, who was opposed to us going into Iraq:




. . . reality is that we simply cannot pull out [of Iraq], 


 as much as we may want to. The consequences of a destabilized 


 and chaotic Iraq, sitting in a critical region of the world, 


 could have catastrophic implications . . . there is no short-


 term solution.


We have a system of government where the military is subordinate to 
the civilian leadership, and it should be. It is the most appropriate 
way. But to completely ignore, as apparently my friend from Illinois 
is, the leaders whom we have appointed to fight over there and do the 
dying and carry out the leadership responsibilities, to completely 
ignore their advice and counsel, they are on the ground. They know what 
is going on.

General Lynch, 3rd ID commander, says:



 [pulling out before the mission was accomplished] would be a 


 mess.


By the way, these will be the guys who will be required to clean up 
the mess, if we pass this resolution and we have a mess.

Continuing from General Lynch:



 . . . you'd find the enemy regaining ground, reestablishing 


 sanctuaries, building more IEDs . . . and the violence would 


 escalate.


I have already quoted before from Henry Kissinger.

General Lynch:



 [our soldiers] want to fight terrorists here, so they don't 


 have to fight terrorists back home . . . I now have the 


 forces I need to conduct that mission.


General Lynch, the 3rd ID commander, says he has the troops and the 
wherewithal and the success to get the job done.

The Senator from Illinois wants to say, no, you have to come home in 
120 days. I don't think that is right. I don't think General Lynch is 
reading any polls. I think General Lynch and General Petraeus are 
fighting an enemy that, according to them, they will be fighting here 
if we have a precipitous withdrawal.

General Lynch:



 . . . surge forces are giving us the capability we have now 


 to take the fight to the enemy . . . the enemy only responds 


 to force, and we now have that force.


That is the force that the Senator from Illinois wants to withdraw 
within 120 days.




 We can conduct detailed kinetic strikes, we can do cordon 


 and searches, and we can deny the enemy sanctuaries . . . If 


 those surge forces go away that capability goes away, and the 


 Iraqi security forces aren't ready yet to do that [mission].


Brent Scowcroft, who opposed our entry into the Iraq conflict:



 [reduction of American presence in Iraq] should follow 


 success in our efforts, not the calendar or the performance 


 of others.


I hope that sometime my friends who were involved in this debate will 
listen to the people we have delegated to lead the best Armed Forces in 
the history of mankind who are doing one of the most difficult jobs in 
history.

I yield the floor.