---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE 187TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF GREECE AND  CELEBRATING GREEK AND AMERICAN DEMOCRACY
## `bc024c97de072cf73878ca14a2571284`
`Mr. MANZULLO — 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. MANZULLO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I rise in support of House Resolution 1024. The Republic of Greece is 
an important friend and ally of the United States. The links between 
Greece and the United States involve political philosophy, values, a 
concrete alliance, and important actions. Greece is the birthplace of 
Western Civilization and modern democracy, and it is from Greece that 
our Founding Fathers drew so many important principles of government, 
law, and freedom. Today, our two nations continue to share the values 
that we hold dear: liberty, freedom, and democracy.

Greece and the United States have also stood together resolutely 
throughout difficult times during the last century, particularly during 
the Second World War. Greece, in fact, is one of the few nations that 
has supported America in every major conflict over the past century.

After the end of World War II, Greece joined in a formal alliance 
with the United States, through NATO, and went on to broaden its 
commitment to


democracy, freedom, and human rights through its notable contributions 
to international peacekeeping and stability missions.

Today, as America faces a complex array of threats posed by extremism 
around the world, Greece indeed remains a valuable strategic partner. 
Most notably, Greece provided access to its airspace for American 
military aircraft en route to Iraq and allowed our U.S. Navy ships to 
refuel in its ports.

Through its substantial economic investment and aid to the Balkans, 
Greece has also sought to play an important role as an agent of 
stability in that important region, supplementing the efforts by the 
United States and the European Union to end the conflicts in that 
region. Recent efforts on the part of the Government of Greece to deal 
constructively with its neighbor Turkey on outstanding issues where 
they have differences show hope for ensuring future stability 
throughout the Aegean Sea region, an outcome the United States seeks as 
well.

Madam Speaker, this resolution notes that this year marks the 187th 
anniversary of the beginning of the revolution that led to the 
independence of Greece. There are approximately 1.3 million Americans 
of Greek descent living in the United States. A large number of Greek 
Americans live in northern Illinois, particularly the Chicago area. 
Greek Americans contribute significantly as community leaders, 
entrepreneurs, and mentors for young children. The Greek Orthodox 
Church in the United States and important Greek community organizations 
are positive forces and should be recognized also.

So I welcome the opportunity afforded by our consideration of this 
resolution to point out the friendship and shared interests of our two 
countries. I congratulate the country and people of Greece for the 
progress they have made over the past 187 years, and I urge the 
adoption of this resolution.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.