---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `bc074374c7c05feccdadc45e27621c51`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I hope the Senate will be able to support 
my amendment. It is a sense-of-the-Senate amendment. There are certain 
findings that are made in the amendment. But it all comes down to 
saying that the Senate should give the President what he has asked for, 
in terms of supplemental appropriations to fund the activities in Iraq 
that would protect our soldiers, that would put into the field new 
equipment and armaments that would help us reduce the level of 
casualties, make it less likely that American soldiers are going to die 
on the battlefield.

We don't need to continue to drag this out. This request has been 
submitted to the Senate, to the House, and it still has not been 
approved. People want to add everything to it. We have had a lot of 
suggestions about amendments that should be put on the supplemental.

What this sense of the Senate says, basically, is the Congress should 
approve the funding requested by the President at the earliest possible 
date. We know that that may take a few days, but it should not take any 
longer than that. So I am hopeful that Senators, after expressing their 
views on the war, expressing their views on whatever else they want to 
put in this legislation, keep focused on what the real need is and what 
the request is; it is supplemental funding to replace funds that have 
been exhausted in the regular fiscal year appropriations to add what 
the military needs.

I have a letter from Secretary Gates which specifically says:




 The situation increases the readiness risk of our military 


 with each passing day. Should the Nation require the use of 


 these forces prior to the equipment becoming available, the 


 funding delay negatively impacts our forces in the field 


 by needlessly delaying the accelerated fielding of new 


 force protection capabilities, such as the mine-resistant 


 ambush-protected vehicle, and counter-IED technologies.


So my hope is the Senate will approve my amendment and let's get on 
with supporting the President's initiative to bring this war to a 
successful conclusion.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.