---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `bc0896f1c1c922dfbc7107cb0c37a0f1`
`Mr. PETERSON of Minnesota — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. PETERSON of Minnesota. I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Speaker, by nearly all measures, the situation in Iraq is a mess. 
And yet what seems crystal clear to most Minnesoteans the President 
says that we still have a realistic chance to achieve his vision for a 
free and democratic Iraq and that all is needed is a short-term 
addition of 21,000 American combat troops. Does nobody seriously think 
that this is true, that success is only 21,000 more soldiers away?

Mr. Speaker, I am against the President's plan. I have given this 
President the benefit of the doubt on more than one occasion. But his 
plan to send in more troops does not pass the test of common sense. If 
a short-term surge was going to deliver victory and democracy in Iraq, 
we would have already done it.

This idea would have made more sense at the beginning of this war. 
And more troops at the start were what many experts counseled. I was 
serving on the Select Intelligence Committee when the President, senior 
Pentagon officials, and senior intelligence officials told us that Iraq 
was a threat to our national security. At the time, we had a great deal 
of confusing and occasionally conflicting information.

We questioned them about this, and their response was that the 
information that they had required us to act and that they had a plan 
for the aftermath. I gave them the benefit of the doubt then, and I 
believed them.

But as time passed and events unfolded, we all learned that, at best, 
we had received unreliable information and, at worst, we had been 
misled.



Mr. Speaker, I want to focus now on the soldiers in the Minnesota 
National Guard and talk about what the President's plan is going to 
mean for them.

A Minnesota Guardsman, a staff sergeant who is currently deployed in 
Iraq, and, by the way, that is the same rank I held when I left the 
Guard, sent a letter to the editor of one the newspapers in my 
district; and I want to read some of it to you.

He says, ''My unit, the Second Battalion, 136th Infantry, Bear Cats 
of Minnesota, which are now the 34th Infantry Division 1, First 
Brigade, is on its second deployment since 2003. In 2003, we were 
mobilized for a 10-month deployment to Bosnia. We returned home in 
April of 2004 and were mobilized again in October, 2005, for our 
current Iraq deployment. When our current deployment is complete, the 
134th Combat Battalion will have spent 490 days in combat, exceeding 
the current record held by the First Armored Division, an active duty 
armor unit, by 35 days. A great deal has been asked of us and more will 
be asked of us in the near future. But our benefits do not reflect the 
burden that we carry.''

He says that, ''while the State and the people of Minnesota have been 
extremely generous towards their soldiers, the Federal Government 
continues to treat Minnesota soldiers like unwanted stepchildren by 
neglecting to give them the benefits that better reflect their roles in 
today's military, that is as full-time, front-line soldiers who are 
used on a regular basis, rather than sparingly. However, it is not our 
choice to be full-time soldiers, a capacity that we essentially fill 
for the military, given the frequency of deployments and the sheer 
numbers of National Guard and Reserve troops deployed across the globe 
at any one time. If the military is going to use the National Guard in 
an active duty capacity, it must increase our benefits to go along with 
the responsibility or there will be no National Guard for the Federal 
and State governments to rely upon in times of crisis.''

Mr. Speaker, I think he said it clearly; and I couldn't agree more. 
When called upon to serve our country, the Minnesota National Guard has 
a proud


history of answering that call. Over 2,500 soldiers of the Minnesota 
National Guard are in Iraq. Many of them were already deployed 
overseas, as I said, in Bosnia; and they were slated to come home in 
March. But, instead, they are having their tour extended for 4 more 
months because of this administration's plan.

Now they are scheduled to come home in July and will have spent 22 
months away from their families. They will have been deployed a total 
of 36 months out of the last 5 years. In my opinion, that is 
unacceptable, and I say, enough is enough.

The soldiers of the Minnesota National Guard are performing their 
duties admirably. They are performing well or better than the regular 
Army. They are serious about completing their mission; and, from my 
experience, they will always do more than what is asked of them.

Another group of people that I would like to recognize are the 
Guard's families. They are not in harm's way, but they wake up every 
day worrying, not knowing what that day will about bring for their 
loved ones. They didn't enlist for the military, but they share their 
daily effects of this war.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to oppose this plan.