---
---

# None
## `bc0d6ec915a5876a85f569b721b084fc`
`Mr. PRICE of North Carolina — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. I thank the chairwoman, and I am pleased 
to present a narrowly targeted amendment that would simply prohibit the 
defense community from using private contractors to conduct 
interrogations.

The interrogation of detainees is clearly an inherently governmental 
function. It is work that is by nature extremely sensitive and critical 
to our national security. We should all be able to agree that 
interrogation should be carried out by individuals who are well-
trained, who fall within a clear chain of command, and who have a sworn 
loyalty to the United States, not by corporate, for-profit contractors.

Some of my colleagues may question why we need to pass a law to 
address something that ought to be a matter of common sense, but this 
amendment is absolutely necessary. The defense intelligence community 
has often utilized contractors for performing interrogations, and 
continues to do so.

For example, L-3 and its subsidiary, Titan, one of the largest 
contracting groups working in Iraq, has contracts with the U.S. Army in 
Iraq under which it performs interrogations. A recent report on the L-3 
Titan contract


gets to the heart of the pitfalls of using contractors for 
interrogations. It concludes, ''There are significant problems with 
these contracts, notably with the hiring and vetting practices of both 
interrogators and translators, many of whom are unqualified or poorly 
qualified for the work. This failure has the potential to seriously 
compromise national security.''

Another example comes from the Department of Justice's Inspector 
General, who recently issued a report on the FBI's role in 
interrogations. He noted instances of contractors ordering abusive 
practices against detainees at Guantanamo Bay.

My amendment would put an end to these practices. It is not intended 
to punish contractors, who are often simply responding to available 
business opportunities. Rather, it is intended to clarify that the 
practice of interrogation is an inherently governmental function and 
that our national security depends on preserving the integrity of this 
boundary.

Let me also note that the amendment withholds judgment on a number of 
ancillary functions, such as interpretation or IT technicians and 
report writers, allowing an exemption for contractors to fill these 
roles. It only prohibits contractors from directly performing 
interrogations.

Madam Chairman, this is a carefully drafted amendment, and I urge its 
adoption.

I reserve the balance of my time.