---
---

# THE BUDGET, DEBT AND THE BLUE DOG'S IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY LEGISLATION
## `bc1425ccafe86403eb901bdba72f8fb0`
`Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California — 27 February 2007`

---


Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. Absolutely. So I started in this 
Congress 11 years ago, and we spent 18 cents of every dollar just on 
paying interest on interest payments. Then we tightened our belts; we 
did PAYGO. President Clinton and others, we worked together, we brought 
it down. In the year 2000 when President Bush took over, we were paying 
11 cents of every dollar on interest. So we had brought it down.

Then, of course, the President decided to give tax breaks to some of 
the wealthiest Americans. I know, because I got a tax break, but not 
everybody got a tax break. The real people who really needed the tax 
breaks, I think, did not receive them. That is why I didn't vote for 
it. I received it because the majority, the Republicans at that time 
voted it in, but I didn't vote for it because I know what fair is fair.

If you get opportunity in this country and you work hard, and you get 
a few breaks and a little bit of luck along the way, that can happen in 
America for almost anybody. And some of it is luck, and you happen to 
make money. I think you should understand that to keep America full of 
opportunities, we need to pay our taxes.

So I am willing to do that, but not this President, because he cut 
the taxes on the people who had lots of money and who were making lots 
of money. His own comptroller told us several years ago that 70 percent 
of the deficit every year in this country is due to the tax breaks that 
the President gave. In other words, we kept spending even though we 
didn't take in revenue. In fact, we returned back revenue.

Then, of course, we have the $3 billion a week of money we spend in 
Iraq. I will not tell you the way I feel. This President went into Iraq 
on the cheap. He didn't think that Americans would really want to spend 
the kind of money it took to put in 200,000 or 300,000 troops to do the 
job the day we went in. So he told his Secretary of Defense, despite 
what the generals told him, Shinseki, who said we need at least 200,000 
or more troops in there, they did it at the level of 110, and now we 
are paying for it. Now we have been in a war much longer than we ever 
anticipated, much longer than the President ever anticipated.