---
---

# None
## `bc15fa5c03f087e73e243a3d845050d7`
`Mr. BOUSTANY — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. BOUSTANY. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to talk about 
the ongoing military and diplomatic mission in Iraq and to discuss the 
recent testimonies given to Congress by General David Petraeus and 
Ambassador Ryan Crocker. Make no mistake, the situation in Iraq is the 
most significant issue that we, in Congress, face today. Our troops on 
the frontlines of the battlefield, our constituents back home, and the 
world look upon the actions and the debates in this body to determine 
our resolve.

First, let me thank the men and women serving in our Armed Forces, 
the diplomatic corps who are serving in that country, and our Foreign 
Service officers on the ground who all serve so nobly under difficult 
circumstances. They make our Nation great. And we owe them a debt of 
gratitude that can never be adequately repaid.

There are three observations that I have that drive my views and 
understanding of the current efforts being made in Iraq. First, the 
plan that was implemented about a year ago is working. General Petraeus 
and Ambassador Ryan Crocker are leading an effort to bring stability 
into Baghdad and areas throughout Iraq because they have the 
flexibility and the necessary resources to respond to changes on the 
ground. This plan is more than just simply 30,000 troops in country. 
The troops are placed strategically.

And we also have civilian personnel and diplomats on the ground 
working to help build up the political institutions from the ground up 
as we work with the central government so that hopefully as the two 
meet, we will end up with a stable Iraq that has sovereignty that can 
protect its borders and that can build institutions on its own and that 
can protect minority rights. Second, America can complete this mission 
successfully. Given the appropriate support and guidance, our troops 
and diplomats will succeed. And third, clearly, challenges remain. Both 
General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker outlined these challenges.

The positive trends as a result of this plan continue from last 
summer, and we will highlight those. But we understand many challenges 
remain before us, and clearly these challenges were outlined by these 
two gentlemen before Congress. I want to mention that failure in Iraq 
would have serious repercussions and dire consequences for U.S. foreign 
policy as well as for global security.


Most importantly, our efforts to stop terrorist organizations would 
be hindered. Secondly, the ability for us and others to deal with the 
Israeli-Palestinian peace process will become much more difficult. 
Thirdly, efforts to minimize Iran's dangerous mischief in this region 
will be diminished. And finally, stabilizing the broader Middle East 
will be exceedingly difficult if we fail in Iraq. Clearly, the cost and 
the consequences of failure are far too high.

As Members of Congress, we must listen to the professional judgments 
of the American leadership we have currently serving in Iraq and work 
with them to create and support policies that will successfully 
complete our mission.

Congress has a serious responsibility here. These two gentlemen and 
the work that they have done in Iraq has been outstanding and should be 
applauded. And we need to support them. And we need to have a serious 
debate here in Congress on what steps we need to take to continue to 
support this effort so that we are successful in Iraq.

Tonight, my colleagues and I will offer our thoughts on the situation 
there in Iraq, our reflections from recent trips and how we have moved 
forward. I want to encourage everyone who is listening to seek out and 
read the testimony of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker. Read it 
carefully because it is very thoughtfully put together. They have 
provided an unvarnished account of what is happening on the ground, and 
it is the most accurate assessment of the situation. And that is what 
policy should be based upon. This House now has the responsibility to 
the American people to truthfully assess their testimonies.

At this point, I would like to pause and introduce my good friend 
from Texas (Mr. Conaway). He is a member of the Armed Services 
Committee. He heard the testimony this afternoon, and he'll make some 
comments.