---
---

# None
## `bc25e67728aff649debe4551aac444e0`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, this is one of these moments at the 
end


of the session, I mean we're like days from Christmas. We're still here 
in Washington, D.C. We've already started Hanukkah; Kwanzaa's on its 
way.

I think it's very, very important for us to point at the fact that 
this Congress has worked harder than any other Congress in the history 
of the Republic. I mean, I'm not talking about coming in number two or 
coming in number three or coming in number four, but we've taken more 
rollcall votes in the history of the Republic.

I think it's also very important, and I feel goose bumps by this 
whole thing. I pay attention to history. I also pay very close 
attention to the present. We're looking at a President right now that 
has made more veto threats than he's made in the last 5 years or 4 
years, what have you, that he's been President of the United States to 
this Democratic Congress. We're looking at the AMT. We're talking about 
individuals being able to file their taxes, and we said that we were 
going to pay for it. This President is saying that he doesn't want to 
pay for it, that he wants to borrow the money. But the bottom line is 
that we're going to be here to make sure that we pay for it in the long 
run, in the second half of this Congress.

We're not going to allow the President to play this Congress as a 
fiddle. This President is talking about, Oh, well, I want Iraq funding 
a part of the appropriations bill that's going to pass and all. He has 
the veto pen. He also has 40 Republicans here in this Chamber to make 
sure that we don't override him on this issue of Iraq. We voted for 
appropriations for Afghanistan, and we had a number of Republicans that 
voted against it, some 200-plus. I don't feel in any way bad about the 
position that we've taken.

I'm so glad Mr. Manatos is on our side. You know, our colleagues who 
came to the floor right before our hour. I sent upstairs for this chart 
to make sure that we enter this chart into the Record one more time. I 
think it's important that we look at the 42 Presidents before this 
President were only able to borrow $1.01 trillion. We're talking about 
the Great Depression. We're talking about World War I. We're talking 
about World War II. We're talking about Korea. We're talking about 
Vietnam. We're talking about Grenada; that's new. We're talking about a 
number of conflicts that have taken place. We're talking about economic 
downturns. We're talking about the S&L scandal. We're talking about a 
number of issues that have faced Americans over the years.

This President, President Bush, along with his Republican minority, 
thank God, but enough to be able to cause trouble over in the Senate 
with this 60-vote phenomena that we've learned about in this 110th 
Congress with Republicans saying, Well, you know, we're going to use 
procedural rules to be able to hold up what the Democratic Congress 
would like to do in this Congress.

This President was able to borrow $1.19 trillion. That number is 
higher now. This chart is not updated, but I think it's important for 
our Democrats, Independents, Republicans to know that we believe in 
fiscal responsibility here on this floor. We believe in the American 
way.

We used to talk about our children paying this bill, but now we're 
talking about we are paying this bill, countries like China and others.