---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `bc3030b3d1a0741263c7f39863e1adc6`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished Chair of the 
Rules Committee for yielding me the time.

Mr. Speaker, I want this war to come to an end now. I had 
reservations when I voted in support of the supplemental a few weeks 
ago, and I have misgivings about the conference report that is before 
us today. I believe very deeply that this war represents one of the 
biggest blunders in our history and that we must change course and 
bring it to an end.

But, Mr. Speaker, to defeat this conference report tonight would 
provide President Bush with a victory that he does not deserve and that 
he has not earned, and it would affirm a disastrous policy in Iraq. A 
vote against this conference report is a vote to support the status 
quo, which is essentially a vote to support a failed policy.

Since the President decided to escalate the war in Iraq, the violence 
has gotten worse. This administration has demonstrated a contempt for 
the American people, who have demanded a change in our Iraq policy.

Mr. Speaker, this President is presiding over a policy and a war in 
Iraq that is making the United States more vulnerable, not more secure. 
He refuses to listen. He refuses to acknowledge the facts. He refuses 
to compromise.

Now he has threatened to veto this conference report. And if he does 
so, then this President will make perfectly clear to the American 
people that the only way this war is going to end, the only way our 
troops will ever come home to their families and loved ones, the only 
way the Iraqis will ever be held accountable for governing their own 
country and ending their sectarian violence, will be if Congress finds 
a way to end it.

Every day it becomes more and more clear that the President has 
decided to kick the ball down the field to make this war somebody 
else's problem. Two years ago, President Bush announced his exit 
strategy for Iraq. He said, ''That's a problem for the next 
President.''

Mr. Speaker, that is unacceptable and it is false. It is a problem 
for all of us. None of us in this Chamber wake up each morning in 
harm's way. None of us stare death in the eye or see our comrades fall 
to bullets and bombs. Not even the Green Zone provides a sense of 
security any longer.

Instead of demanding reconciliation, we are building walls to keep 
Shiites away from Sunnis. Every day, thousands of Iraqis are fleeing 
the horror that has become their country. The best and the brightest 
are leaving. The average shopkeeper, the next-door neighbor, all are 
packing their bags and trying to find a way out of town, out of the 
country, away from the violence, the death and destruction.

Mr. Speaker, the reality is that whenever we finally leave Iraq, it 
will not be pretty. This failed policy has left Iraq with few options. 
But until we begin to leave, no one has to make the hard choices about 
how Iraqis are going to live together or die together.

Mr. Speaker, this terrible chapter in our history must come to an 
end, and I urge all my colleagues to join with me in saying to the 
President of the United States, enough is enough.