---
---

# None
## `bc4761ba4f0a81038f7a7b4e8250a61a`
`Mr. SESTAK — 19 February 2008`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Madam Speaker, on behalf of all the citizens of the 7th 
Congressional District of Pennsylvania, it gives me great pleasure to 
thank and congratulate Lieutenant Colonel Mary Martin, USA, for her 
dedicated service to the armed force of the United States of America.

LTC Martin's academic credentials are remarkable. She is a graduate 
of The Pennsylvania State University with a Bachelor of Arts Degree in 
Psychology and a Master's Degree in Human Resources Management from 
Chapman University, she was commissioned a Second Lieutenant, Medical 
Service Corps through ROTC in 1987. Also a graduate of the Medical 
Service Corps Basic Course, the Medical Logistics Management Course 
(Honor Graduate), the Combined Logistics Officer Advanced Course (Honor 
Graduate), the U.S. Army Medical Materiel Agency Internship, Command 
and General Staff College, and the Navy Advanced Management Program.

LTC Martin has had a variety of key leadership and management 
positions throughout her career including: Platoon Leader and Division 
Medical Supply Officer, 7th Medical Battalion, 7th Infantry Division 
(L), Fort Ord, CA; Chief, Distribution Division, 6th Medical Supply, 
Optical, and Maintenance Battalion, Camp Carroll, Korea; Commander, 
Charlie Company and later S3, 325th Forward Support Battalion, 25th 
Infantry Division (L), Schofield Barracks, HI; Chief, Logistics 
Division, Dunham Army Health Clinic, Carlisle Barracks, PA; Logistics 
Readiness Officer, U.S. Army Pacific, Fort Shafter, HI; Executive 
Officer, Pacific Regional Dental Command, Tripler Army Medical Center, 
HI; Program Manager, ECAT, Defense Supply Center, Philadelphia; Chief, 
Joint Readiness, Defense Supply Center, Philadelphia; and Chief, 
Customer Facing Division, Defense Supply Center, Philadelphia.

Most importantly, LTC Martin has been a healer, warrior and 
ambassador of goodwill for our nation through difficult deployments to 
the Republic of Haiti in support of Operation Uphold Democracy; to East 
Timor in support of Operation Stabilise; to Iraq in support of the 
Coalition Provisional Authority Ministry of Health; and to Kuwait in 
support of Operation Iraqi/Enduring Freedom. She has also deployed to 
Sri Lanka, Thailand, Vietnam and Cambodia in support of medical 
humanitarian outreach programs.

Her awards speak to an extraordinarily successful career and include: 
Defense Meritorious Service Medal, Meritorious Service Medal with 4 Oak 
Leaf Clusters, Joint Service Commendation Medal, Army Commendation 
Medal with 2 Oak Leaf Clusters, Army Achievement Medal with 1 Oak Leaf 
Cluster, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, Iraqi Campaign Medal, 
Humanitarian Service Medal with 1 Oak Leaf Cluster, the coveted Expert 
Field Medical Badge, and the Parachutist Badge. LTC Martin was also 
inducted in the Order of Military Medical Merit.

LTC Martin's family, friends and neighbors of the 7th Congressional 
District, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and our entire nation extend 
their gratitude to her for a career of selfless dedication to our 
safety and security.
