# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS MESSAGE HOUR
## `bc64d53f4f463d1cab7247bee2cea523`
`Ms. LEE — 31 March 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Let me applaud you for laying out these very important and 
very thoughtful bills. Hopefully, people who are listening to the 
Special Order tonight will understand the importance of them and ask 
their Members of Congress to support them because they actually should 
be passed and signed into law.

Also, I think it's important that we recognize tonight we are talking 
also with regard to the Congressional Black Caucus' economic 
empowerment agenda, and what you have laid out is central to an 
economic empowerment agenda of the African American community 
throughout our country, but also, in addition, we have talked a lot 
about the disparities and why we have to have this economic empowerment 
agenda because we are still faced with many, many disparities in health 
care and education and economic development.

And when you look at the African American business community and the 
lack of capital, when you look at the small business administration and 
the type of problems and difficulties we have had over the years, you 
can see that, in many ways, many of the initiatives that have begun 
over the years that would have helped during this economic recession 
have been just about cut out. So it is about time we go back to the 
drawing board and regroup and not only resurrect some of the strategies 
that actually work but come forth with new legislation such as we are 
talking about tonight.

So, in closing, I just want to thank the Congressional Black Caucus, 
again under Congresswoman Kilpatrick's leadership, for making sure that 
the overall agenda of the CBC is put forth every Monday night under 
Congresswoman Tubbs Jones' leadership, because this is so important. In 
fact, we were in recess over the last couple of weeks, and I ran into 
many, many people who thanked us for getting the word out, sounding the 
alarm, providing the information with regard to what we are doing here 
because so often, the American people, the public, our communities, 
have no idea what type of legislation is being proposed to help with 
some of the burdens that they are forced to bear at this point in our 
history.


The $16,500 I mentioned earlier that this Iraq occupation is costing 
the American people, just think of what they could do with $16,500. And 
so I have to say, part of what we have to continue to do is to try to 
end this occupation, end this $3 trillion that's being projected with 
regard to the war in Iraq and make sure that immediately the American 
people though can realize some benefits from their tax dollars and also 
make sure that we can expand unemployment compensation and food stamps 
and just help them survive through this until we can do something big 
and something that makes their lives much better.

Thank you again.