---
---

# NATIONAL MILITARY APPRECIATION MONTH
## `bc660520980b7bc4953df36ee6c3b403`
`Mr. ISSA — 19 May 2008`

---


Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this important 
resolution, and yield myself such time that I may consume.

This year marks the 10th anniversary of National Military 
Appreciation Month, which was first passed on May 1999. I might note 
that in May 1999, perhaps the reason for the Congress seeing fit to 
have a National Appreciation Month for our military was that in fact we 
were in a time of comparative peace. We were at a time in which we 
wanted to let our military know that we appreciated them standing guard 
in peacetime as well as in war.

For the last 7 years, though, we have been at war. Our troops have 
been deployed in Afghanistan since shortly after the September 11 
attack on our Nation. In fact, this last weekend, as part of the 
Military Appreciation Month, I was in Oceanside in my own district 
where 44,000 Marines reside at Camp Pendleton. Except they don't get to 
reside at Camp Pendleton; they are on their third and fourth 
deployments throughout that region.

I didn't just thank the senior NCOs and the officers, who I 
appreciate their continued service because they have stayed in and 
reenlisted during this time of war, but I also thanked the incredible 
amount of young men and women and their families who showed up and who 
in fact joined after this war began, and many of them after this war 
had been going for many, many years.

It is in fact our military that is with us in good times and bad. 
They stay with us in the worst of times. They also enlist in the 
hardest of times.

Many people would say I never voted for this war. I wouldn't vote for 
this war. This war is wrong. Men and women of the Army, Navy, Marine 
Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard don't say whether the war is right or 
wrong. They make a statement about whether America is right or wrong. 
In their eyes, and in my eyes, America is right. We have a process 
which we observe in order to ensure that we do not easily go into war, 
we do not easily send our troops into harm's way.

However, our men and women are in harm's way today. And for this 
month, like every day that we are at war, we should honor our men and 
women in uniform. We should make that extra effort to try to do what we 
can for those returning home and for those who remain behind, the 
families, the children, the husbands, the wives, making sure that every 
day they are taken care of, that their special needs, because of the 
absence of the loved one, are observed. And when they come home, they 
don't come home from the first deployment, the parade is not as easy to 
recognize; they don't come home from the last deployment. It is not so 
easy to say, we are coming home for good.

So I urge my colleagues and I urge all of America to think about the 
appreciation we can show year round to in fact realize that a parade is 
just as important to a troop who has come home from their third 
deployment. Recognition, a picnic, or some other way of saying we care 
about your continued service, is just as important in the sixth and 
seventh year of a struggle that could in fact go on for many years in 
order to bring freedom and a way of life that is acceptable to the 
people of Afghanistan and Iraq and other countries throughout the 
world.

Today we can recognize where our men and women are fighting, but we 
don't often recognize where they are standing so that we don't have to 
fight. And I would like to close by recognizing the men and women who 
are in the Sudan, who are in fact trying to do what they can in Africa 
for some very troubled spots in which we don't recognize it as our 
fighting but we certainly have to recognize that we are trying to make 
a difference for those people who in their struggles every day realize 
that they are at war.

I join with the gentlelady from California in urging the support for 
this resolution. I join with the gentleman from Connecticut in 
recognizing that every day, every month, should be National Military 
Recognition Month.