---
---

# JARED MONTI: AMERICAN HERO
## `bc679c82eb76895100b2cf784fc585cc`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 28 July 2009`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Madam Speaker, one of the saddest and 
most important parts of our job is to attend funerals for the 
extraordinary young men and women of our districts who have lost their 
lives in the service of our country. A few years ago I attended such a 
funeral in the town of Raynham, Massachusetts, where I heard about a 
particularly impressive young man, Sgt. Jared C. Monti--of the U.S. 
Army, who died in Afghanistan in a valiant effort to save his comrades. 
I was struck then by the impact this young man had had on virtually 
everyone who knew him, and the magnitude of our loss as a community was 
clear. Last week we learned that he has been awarded the Medal of Honor 
for the bravery of this effort to save others.

Madam Speaker, to his family and others who loved and were warmed by 
this young man, the conferring of this award is, as his father said, 
''very, very bittersweet.'' They relive now the pain they felt when 
they learned of his death, but they now have the knowledge that I hope 
will be comforting at some level at some point that the rest of the 
world now knows what a wonderful man he was, and the pride they felt in 
his accomplishments now become a matter in which our whole country 
takes pride.

Madam Speaker, to the family and friends of Jared Monti, I again 
extend my deepest condolences, and to his memory I extend the salute 
that is the least we as a grateful nation can do for a young man who 
quite literally gave his life in defense of others, and I ask that the 
article about Sgt. Monti from the Taunton Daily Gazette be printed 
here, so that his example can be widely understood and appreciated.







[From the Taunton Daily Gazette, July 27, 2009]



 Department of Defense Report Details Raynham Soldier's Heroism













 (By Jessica Scarpati)




 Raynham--On Sept. 17, President Barack Obama will present 


 Army Sgt. 1st Class Jared C. Monti's parents, Paul and Janet, 


 with the Medal of Honor, the nation's highest military award. 


 Only five Medals of Honor have been bestowed, all 


 posthumously, for service in Iraq and Afghanistan.



 The final act of courage by the Raynham man is retold 


 through a Department of Defense report and interviews with 


 his family:



 Evening fell, but the desert sun had cooked the earth Army 


 Staff Sgt. Jared C. Monti traipsed with his soldiers and 


 their 70-pound packs.



 Even at dusk, the air still boiled in the northeastern 


 mountains of Afghanistan and sweat streamed down Monti's 


 muscular 5-foot-5 frame.



 They were out of water. They radioed for more.



 North of where he stood on the plateau, Monti, 30, could 


 see the enemy compound he and the 15 other soldiers in his 


 group were sent to scout out June 21, 2006.



 In his 12-year military career, the Raynham soldier had 


 been lauded by superiors in his military records for his 


 ''endless potential'' and ''uncompromising courage.''



 That day would be no different, except that Monti's final 


 act of bravery--running into a combat zone to save a wounded 


 comrade--would end with the ultimate sacrifice.



 Monti, a member of the elite 10th Mountain Division, was on 


 his second tour in Afghanistan and that day was part of an 


 advance scouting group--sent ahead of a larger force pushing 


 into a valley in the Nuristan province, his father said.



 More troops were coming behind them to rid the valley of 


 Taliban insurgents.



 Staff Sgt. Patrick L. Lybert, 28, of Wisconsin, finished 


 filling his water bottle and was lying down behind a stone 


 wall with another soldier, according to the military report.



 Monti slid down and sat behind a nearby rock and chatted 


 with two other soldiers. A third group collected behind 


 another rock wall.



 No one heard the clicks and rumbles of the grenade launcher 


 above them 50 meters away.



 The blasts began.



 The first rocket-propelled grenade exploded on their 


 plateau, followed by a hurricane of bullets from assault 


 rifles and machine guns coming from in front of and behind 


 them.



 The group ran to the rock where Monti sat, hesitating to 


 return fire. There were allies--possibly American soldiers--


 in that direction.



 He grabbed the radio and shouted back to the command 


 center. They were under attack and needed air support.



 They couldn't climb down from the plateau--the way down was 


 too steep. It would kill them.



 Behind Monti, one of his soldiers, a private, screamed. He 


 was shot in the back and his wrist was gashed open--probably 


 by a grenade fragment.



 The private, whose name the Department of Defense redacted 


 in the report, crawled toward the group with Monti. He was 


 bleeding and disoriented. Another soldier put pressure on the 


 wrist wound while someone yelled for the medic.



 Lybert leaned over the stone wall and fired back at the 


 insurgents and rockets exploded around them.



 ''You couldn't see anything but muzzle flashes and pops 


 through the trees,' said one staff sergeant, who was not 


 identified in the report.



 Monti was firing back, positioning the men and shouting in 


 the radio, doing what he did best--commanding everything at 


 once.



 He was their expert at calling in air attacks to precise 


 locations, which was what they needed--now.



 Everyone was there except for Pvt. Brian Bradbury, a 22-


 year-old from Missouri. He had to still be farther up--he 


 hadn't made it behind the rocks.



 Monti and the soldiers shouted his name. The explosions 


 drowned them out.



 Lybert rose again from behind the rock to fire. He was 


 shot. One bullet in his face. He collapsed.



 Someone yelled that Lybert wasn't moving. Blood was pooling 


 beneath his body.



 They continued firing, trying to ward off the insurgents 


 closing in on their team from the east and west.



 Bradbury was still nowhere to be found.



 Monti called for his men to cover him. He would not let the 


 young private remain out there alone.



 Seconds passed. Bullets blasted the plateau.



 Monti dropped back. He turned back into the fire.



 Grenades exploded.



 Monti screamed.



 ''Help me!'' he shouted.



 Bradbury had been wounded when a grenade landed nearby 


 earlier, injuring his arm and shoulder.



 Another grenade had hit Monti as he dashed across the ridge 


 to Bradbury, severely wounding his arm, leg and midsection.



 He was 20 meters from his team. He screamed in pain. They 


 fired at the insurgents as a fellow sergeant tried to dash 


 toward him.



 The sergeant ducked as more explosions came. He was 10 


 yards away.



 He heard Monti gasp his last words.



 ''Tell my family I love them,'' he said.



