# None
## `bc6c53e1bd0be0a2c2e848010a2845dd`
`Mr. FARR — 12 June 2007`

---


Mr. FARR. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.

I rise as a member of the Appropriations Committee subcommittee. I 
want to give you a little bit of background of how this whole thing 
started.

Homeland Security was an agency created after 9/11, and as admitted 
by many Members on the other side of the aisle, the agency itself was 
the biggest bureaucracy created. As you remember, it just took 
employees from all different agencies, including Department of 
Agriculture, and put it into one agency called Homeland Security. And 
we created an appropriations committee and essentially just funded it 
with what it asked, without all the first instance.

And I remember Mr. Rogers, who was the first chairman of that 
committee, bringing to the Appropriations Committee the bill last year 
and indicating this is a huge bureaucracy. It has almost 200,000 people 
in it, very hard to wrap your hands around it, just sort of hold your 
nose and vote for it. There were no earmarks in the bill, as there 
aren't any earmarks here tonight, and we adopted it.

What happened with the new chairmanship with Mr. Price is that first 
thing he did was ask, we better look at what this is all about. 
Homeland security for what? Security, what are we fighting? So we 
invited in all these experts to sort of give us an overview of what is 
risk, what is fear, what should we be looking at, and it was very 
sensible.

What they suggested is that you're talking about people that are 
going to respond to incidents, and in an incident like Katrina, an 
incident like a disaster, like a terrorist act, you're going to need to 
prepare responders, people in the Intelligence Community, people on the 
ground in local communities. And in essence what they said is that 
homeland security is really hometown security, and you need to have 
your towns prepared for this, and you need to do it on a risk 
management basis; just don't throw money at everything.

And Chairman Price went on CODELs seeing what disasters were like, 
going to Katrina, going to New Orleans and later along the border, 
where we put a lot of money, and what we learned in the committee, 
ironically, was that the only terrorist that was ever apprehended or 
found evidence of was not on the border that we've all been looking at, 
which is the Mexican-U.S. border, but, in fact, on the Canadian border 
where we were doing very little, if anything, on homeland security. The 
committee found that very interesting and put a lot of money and assets 
and said let's start securing the northern border as well as the 
southern border.

The chairman took a bipartisan CODEL along the whole border from 
Tucson to San Diego, every inch of it, flew it, saw all the assets we 
have. My God, you'd think that we had the entire war in Iraq being 
fought on the Mexican border. We have everything from aircraft of all 
kinds, helicopters, we have ATVs, we have dogs, we have horses, people 
on horseback. We are covering that border like you can't believe.



In San Diego, we even found a Border Patrol out on the boats in San 
Diego Harbor. It was everything. We saw fences, all kinds of fences, 
vehicle fences, human fences, and areas that it's just unbelievable, as 
far as the eye can see. This border is longer than the distance between 
Washington and San Francisco.

What we found is that we had better do this thing wisely. Let's 
listen and let's use some smart risk management.

It all comes down to this bill tonight. What this bill is all about 
is, this is the best Homeland Security bill this country has ever had. 
We are spending all this time just on procedural delays.

It's ironic that you are going to be hoisted on your own petard, 
because this process that Mr. Obey and the leadership has put in the 
process requires each one of you, when you ask for something that's 
called an earmark, some people call it pork, it's essentially that 
thing that you think is important. You have to disclose why you are 
asking for it.













Announcement by the Chairman
