---
---

# None
## `bc7e1fcb695a5d7fe20abde03731225a`
`Mr. DREIER — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this rule. 
And I want to begin by complimenting my friend from Miami for very 
cogently pointing to the December 6, 2006, words of our friend from 
Worcester who has, once again, stood before us and tried to make an 
argument for completely rebuffing all of the promises that were made in 
2006 and the years before that.

Now, my friend has just referred to the fact that we had a continuing 
resolution a year ago right now when we were considering this. The fact 
is, in the last Congress, while it wasn't a model by any means, there 
were more appropriations bills passed through both Houses of Congress 
than has been the case in this year, the first year of the Democratic 
majority's control of this place.

Now, when we think back to those promises that were outlined so well 
when my friend from Miami was carrying forth the arguments propounded 
by Mr. McGovern, I think about what we've gotten this year compared to 
last year. In fact, this year, there have been more bills rewritten in 
the Rules Committee than in any other Congress we've had before. Eleven 
of the appropriations bills last year were passed, and only one this 
year, the Defense appropriations bill. And so as I listen to my friend 
malign the record of the last Congress, we have to remember the fact 
that 11 of the bills were passed last year.

But let me further add that in this calendar year there have been 
more bills rewritten by the Rules Committee than ever before in any 
Congress. Madam Speaker, in this Congress there have been more closed 
rules preventing any Member, Democratic or Republican, from having the 
opportunity to offer an amendment than in any Congress in our history.

And one of the other things that I remember, as we consider this 
bill, Madam Speaker, is the fact that we were promised a 24-hour period 
to look at measures. In fact, I remember the Speaker, in ''A New 
Direction for America,'' said that we would do this. And my friend, in 
his December 6, 2006, statement, talked about a new sense of fairness 
and openness. He said that twice in his statement, Madam Speaker. And 
yet it was 12:55 this morning when the Rules Committee received this 
3,000-page omnibus appropriations bill. And here we are, at now 5 
minutes past 6 in the evening, having gone through the Rules Committee 
and brought it to the floor. It is, again, 180 degrees from what was 
promised by this new majority.

Now, Madam Speaker, I will say that my friend and I are the two 
Members of the minority who are here on the floor, we have consistently 
stood, as have all of our colleagues, prepared to work in a bipartisan 
way to deal with these issues.

And I was really somewhat surprised when I heard my friend mention 
the issue of veterans benefits, making sure that we have the resources 
needed for our Nation's veterans. Well, Madam Speaker, last summer, we 
could have gotten a bill to the President's desk with bipartisan 
support, Democrats and Republicans, again, coming together, which is 
what we want to do, we want to work together. And that's what the 
American people regularly say is, yes, you've got different visions, 
but can't you deal with areas of agreement and, in fact, pass Public 
Law on that.

Well, Madam Speaker, I will tell you that I believe the Democrats and 
Republicans in this House, at least from everything I've heard, want to 
provide much-needed assistance to our Nation's veterans. Democrats and 
Republicans want to provide assistance to our Nation's veterans. And, 
Madam Speaker, last summer we had an opportunity to do that. Our 
colleagues in the Senate, the other body, they appointed the conferees 
so that we could report, it was a bipartisan agreement, to report out 
and get the much-needed veterans relief to the President's desk for a 
signature. We could have done that last summer. And yet, Madam Speaker, 
unfortunately, there was never, by the Speaker of the House, an 
appointment of those conferees. So we've gone for half a year at a cost 
of, it's been as high as 13 or $18 million a day, if I remember the 
numbers, that it has cost with this constant delay.

And so I was really shocked that my friend from Worcester would raise 
the issue of veterans benefits when we could have, again, with 
Democrats and Republicans alike agreeing, we could have gotten that 
bill to the President's desk and signed last summer; 6 months ago it 
could have been done.

So I've got to say again, Madam Speaker, that we were promised this 
great new sense of openness. I was encouraged by that. And I will 
admit, in


the position that I held in the last Congress as chairman of the Rules 
Committee, I didn't do it perfectly. I made mistakes. I know my friend 
from Miami would acknowledge the same thing. We never held ourselves up 
as a perfect model, but we were constantly criticized. And I know that 
regularly our friends on the other side of the aisle will say, well, 
you did this, so that means we should do this. No, Madam Speaker, it 
wasn't about what we did. It was about what this new majority promised 
they were going to do.

Twenty-four hours to look at legislation, and yet this 3,000-page 
omnibus appropriations bill was made available at 12:55 this morning. A 
new sense of openness and fairness. More closed rules in the first 
session of the 110th Congress than in any Congress in our Nation's 
history, and more bills rewritten in the Committee on Rules than we've 
ever seen happen before.

Madam Speaker, I believe that those of us in the minority have a 
responsibility to hold this new majority accountable to those promises 
that were made, not to us, I mean, I'm not complaining about us, it's 
the American people. It's our constituents, Democrats and Republicans, 
who have been denied this opportunity.

And so it is sad that we are beginning to wind down the first session 
of the 110th Congress in the way that we are when, again, we would very 
much like to work in a bipartisan way. We're going through this measure 
now, Madam Speaker, that the President has said he would veto in its 
current form. We know that the Senate is going to end up doing the 
right thing, ensuring that we have the necessary funds to support our 
troops as they seek to prosecute this war against radical extremism, 
and yet we deny it in this measure.

So I, of course, will be voting against this bill as it now is. And I 
guess it gives some Members cover. They get an opportunity to say that 
they're voting against the war in Iraq, which some people want to do. I 
mean, we all want this war to come to an end. As I just said upstairs 
in the Rules Committee a few minutes ago, the President of the United 
States stood here last January, nearly a year ago, and he said, I wish 
this war were over and that we had won. This is not an endless war. 
We've been getting positive reports from a wide range of sources, even 
some of the harshest critics, including one particularly prominent 
Member of this institution, who was a very harsh critic, has 
acknowledged that the surge has worked and that we are seeing signs of 
improvement.

Now, I don't know if that's going to bring the war to an end. No one 
knows. I don't know if it's just a lull. It may be. But I do know this, 
these are positive signs that need to be recognized. And it would be a 
horrible mistake for us to pass this omnibus appropriations bill which 
would deny the needed resources.


Whether you supported our going into Iraq or not, we are where we 
are, and I think Members of this body need to recognize that. 
Unfortunately, this omnibus appropriations bill fails to do that.

And I know I've offered this quote on numerous occasions here on the 
House floor, Madam Speaker, but my constituent, Ed Blecksmith, a very 
proud former marine, lost his son, his son that was in the battle of 
Fallujah in November of 2004. And his father said to me, Ed Blecksmith 
said to me, ''If you don't complete our mission in Iraq, my son, J.P., 
will have died in vain.'' And that's why I believe that it is 
critically important, as unpopular as this is, for us to make sure that 
we complete our mission, which means ensuring that the Iraqi security 
forces can defend the country and that the government can govern. It 
took us 13 years, from July 4, 1776 until April of 1789, nearly 13 
years for us to put our government into place.

We have challenging and difficult days ahead in both Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but this measure would be an absolutely horrible, horrible 
signal to send to our troops and to those who are so courageously, 
Iraqis, people of Afghanistan, who are fighting on behalf of this cause 
for freedom.

And so, Madam Speaker, I will say again, it's a process that is not 
what was promised to the American people, and it is a product which is 
clearly flawed. So I urge my colleagues to vote against this rule and 
against the underlying resolution.