---
---

# SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 4--EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON  IRAQ
## `bc86146044dd135950a7d2bac44df41a`
`Mr. WARNER — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, Senator Nelson of Nebraska and Senator 
Collins and I have worked for some time to put forward a resolution 
embracing the very serious, heartfelt sentiments of Senators with 
regard to the President's plan that he enunciated on January 10.

That plan--and I credit the President for the in-depth study and 
preparation that went into it, the consultations; I was privileged to 
be a part of three consultations with the President in that period--it 
is that plan about which a number of us here in the Senate have some 
thoughts.

The President, in his statement on January 10, laid down the 
invitation for Members of Congress to come forward and provide their 
thoughts. And that is the vein in which the three of us, together with 
a series of cosponsors, have adopted this first draft, which is 
identical to the draft we put into the Record some nights ago. We 
purposely have not changed a comma or a period or any other word in it 
because a number of colleagues, in a very thoughtful and proper way, 
have come to us with suggestions and ideas. But at this time, we 
believe we should lay this down, such that other Senators who might 
wish to be cosponsors may do so. The Senate works its will each day, 
and we are always here to consider ideas from other colleagues, but at 
the present time this is the format. We purposely waited until after 
the Foreign Relations Committee worked on its resolution, which I 
understand will soon be working its way to the calendar.

So for that purpose, we put in ours. We find some differences--very 
significant, in my judgment--between ours and the resolution offered by 
the distinguished Senator, Mr. Biden, and others--Senator Levin, 
indeed, Senator Hagel.

We believe we have put a greater emphasis on urging the President to 
consider other options, given that we have a general disagreement with 
the very


significant level of troops that are specifically set forth in the 
President's plan.

We also feel very strongly about the issue of sectarian violence and 
how that must be the primary mission of the Iraqi forces. The American 
GI simply should not be, in my judgment--whenever possible, the rules 
of engagement should provide that the Iraqi forces should deal with the 
sectarian violence issue. They understand the language. They understand 
the cultural differences, which precipitate the animosity between the 
Sunni and the Shia and, indeed, the most distressing aspects of it: the 
Shia upon Shia and Sunni upon Sunni. We recognize that sectarian 
violence is undermining, in many ways--the level of it--the efforts of 
this Government under Prime Minister Maliki to go forward and exercise 
the full reins of sovereignty and that it is in those interests that 
sectarian violence has to be dealt with. It is an important mission, 
but I believe strongly it is a mission that should be given primarily 
to the Iraqi forces.

We concur with the President, who said many times, including in his 
statement on January 10, that to allow this Government to fail and to 
allow the accomplishments toward sovereignty through free elections by 
the Iraqi people to be lost and this country to simply be plunged into 
chaotic situations is not in the interests of peace in that region and, 
indeed, peace in the world.

Our resolution does not provide for a reduction in any way or suggest 
the level of U.S. forces there now. It does not provide a timetable. It 
simply urges the President to consider all options and sets forth in 
there the primary missions as we interpret them to be in the interests 
of our country. Those primary missions track in large measure the 
Baker-Hamilton report.

We also stress the need for benchmarks to be spelled out with 
clarity. And should the operations in Baghdad go forward under the 
Commander in Chief--and we recognize fully and in no way try to 
contravene the authority of the President to act under the Constitution 
as Commander in Chief--should that go forward, it will be done in an 
incremental fashion, as we have been told by the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs and others.

So when the first operation takes place, we should carefully set 
forth the benchmarks and see if the Iraqi Government and the Iraqi 
armed forces fulfill those benchmarks; namely, do they all come in the 
numbers that they were supposed to under that plan? They failed to do 
that when a similar augmentation for the Baghdad operation was 
initiated this summer. Will the political structure in Iraq resist, 
refrain, and in every other way allow the military commanders, both 
U.S. and Iraqi, to carry out the missions as they see fit and employ 
such tactics as they deem necessary to achieve those missions without 
being called by the Government and told: Stop this, withdraw here, or 
do not take that prisoner, but if you have him, then release him. We 
cannot go in under that guise.

Thirdly and most importantly, we have to see how the Iraqis perform. 
Will they take the point? Will they take the lead? And in such tactics, 
will they then be the primary--the primary--if not the essential force 
that deals with sectarian violence, such that the rules of engagement 
spell out: Whenever necessary, the coalition forces and namely the 
United States shall not be utilized.

At this time, I would invite my colleagues to express their views, 
and I will ask each to name those cosponsors whom we have gotten from 
each side of the aisle.

I yield the floor.