# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `bc88b2c8511121d0679eeaf512b9deb5`
`Mr. JOHNSON of Illinois — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. JOHNSON of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I rise today to address the 
President's plan to deploy an additional 21,500 American troops in 
Iraq. I oppose this course of action and feel that contributing more 
troops to this war is not in the best interest of our country.



One only needs to look back on the timeline of events in Iraq to 
realize how much we have given that country. From the deposing of 
Saddam Hussein and his ruthless heirs, to the drafting of a 
constitution and free elections, the United States has fulfilled its 
role in liberating Iraq. However, the sacrifices our country has made 
must be met by an even stronger commitment by Iraq's leaders to face 
the challenges of a fledgling democracy and ensure the safety and 
freedom of its own people.

Our troops have served with tremendous bravery during this nearly 4 
year endeavor. The resolution we are discussing today contains a pledge 
that Congress will ''continue to support and protect'' our courageous 
men and women who are serving or who have served in Iraq. This is a 
promise we must keep and I will work with like-minded colleagues to 
ensure that the members of the United States Armed Forces continue to 
have the resources they need while they are in harms way and after they 
return home.

However, I am in disagreement with the President on sending 21,500 
more troops to Iraq because the time has passed for the leaders and 
citizens of Iraq to ascend and defend their country. The people of this 
country sent a message to the Congress a few months ago and my 
constituents have made it increasingly clear to me that they do not 
support the escalation of U.S. troop involvement amidst the seemingly 
endless sectarian strife inside Iraq.

Therefore, I rise in support of this resolution.

