---
---

# None
## `bc9b66c68764015bcd63731c8163ba44`
`Mr. DORGAN — 1 March 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, this is an amendment which is similar to 
one Senator Conrad and I have offered previously. It deals with the 
issue of al-Qaeda and its leadership. It has been now 5/1/2/ years 
since that fateful morning with the bright sunshine and the blue sky 
here in Washington, DC, when I was looking out the window of the 
leadership meeting which I was attending that Tuesday. We could see the 
smoke rising from the Pentagon because of the attacks. We watched on 
television the collapse of the World Trade towers, attacked by 
commercial airplanes being used as guided missiles full of fuel. None 
of us will ever forget that morning. More than 3,000 innocent Americans 
were murdered. Shortly after that period, we heard people boast about 
orchestrating the murder of those innocent Americans. Osama bin Laden, 
Mr. al-Zawahiri, his chief lieutenant, and al-Qaeda have boasted about 
orchestrating the attacks against our country that murdered innocent 
Americans.

The legislation before the Senate deals with the 9/11 Commission 
Report. That Commission did an extraordinary job. I appreciate Senator 
Reid bringing this to the floor and the work that has been done by the 
committees. These are recommendations which are long overdue. They 
should have been dealt with previously by the Congress, but they have 
not been.

Now we have legislation on the Senate floor, recommendations on how 
to provide for this country's protection, how to provide security, how 
to prevent another attack by al-Qaeda or other terrorist organizations. 
It is very important legislation. We do need to protect our country 
from attacks. But there is something else that is long overdue; that 
is, we have taken our eye off the greatest threat. That is not me 
saying so. Let me tell my colleagues what the greatest threat to our 
country is. This is testimony on January 11, a month and a half or so 
ago, before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence by Mr. 
Negroponte, who was a top intelligence chief.

Here is what he said:




 Al Qaeda continues to plot attacks against our homeland and 


 other targets with the objective of inflicting mass 


 casualties. And they continue to maintain active connections 


 and relationships that radiate outward from their leaders' 


 secure hideout in Pakistan to affiliates throughout the 


 Middle East, northern Africa and Europe.


Mr. Negroponte continued by saying:




 Al Qaeda is the terrorist organizations that poses the 


 greatest threat to US interests, including to the Homeland.


That is from the top intelligence expert in our Government. He says 
the terrorist organization that poses the greatest threat to U.S. 
interests is al-Qaeda; the greatest threat to our homeland is from al-
Qaeda. He says they are in a secure hideout in Pakistan.

Tuesday of this week, the new Director of Intelligence, Mike 
McConnell, said almost exactly the same thing.

We also read in the New York Times a week or so ago the following:




 Senior leaders of Al Qaeda operating from Pakistan over the 


 past year have set up a band of training camps in the tribal 


 regions near the Afghan border, according to American 


 intelligence and counterterrorism officials.



 American officials said there was mounting evidence that 


 Osama bin Laden and his deputy, Ayman al-Zawahri, have been 


 steadily building an operations hub in the mountainous 


 Pakistani tribal area of North Waziristan.


Now, let me go back to 4 days after 
9/11. President Bush said the following in an address to a joint 
session of Congress. I was sitting near the front row. The President 
said:




 We will not only deal with those who dare attack America. 


 We will deal with those who harbor them and feed them and 


 house them.


In his State of the Union Address several months later, he said:




 As part of our offensive against terror, we are also 


 confronting the regimes that harbor and support terrorists.


So the head of our intelligence services, the Directors of 
Intelligence, know that the leadership of al-Qaeda,


including Osama bin Laden--or ''Osama bin Forgotten,'' as some have 
suggested in recent years--are in a secure hideaway in Pakistan. At the 
same time, we have 21,000 troops sent on a surge elsewhere. And so I 
ask: Why are we not making a greater effort to capture the leadership 
of the biggest terrorist threat to this country, as described by the 
Directors of Intelligence, past and current? Are they being harbored?

We read that there has been an agreement of sorts between the 
Government of Pakistan and al-Qaeda and those who harbor al-Qaeda in 
Pakistan. We know there are training organizations now. We see the 
examples of them in the film and video on our television sets, more 
sophisticated attacks, additional techniques about terrorist attacks.

So we offer an amendment that is very simple. It is an amendment that 
says: We want every 6 months from this administration a classified 
report to the Congress that tells us several things: First, where is 
the al-Qaeda leadership? If they know they are in Pakistan, reaffirm 
that. If they are not in Pakistan, tell us where they are, each 
country, and whether those countries are harboring these terrorists.

Second, we deserve to know whether these countries in which these 
terrorists reside are helping us. Are they helping us bring to justice 
and capture the leadership of the greatest terrorist threat to our 
country? We deserve to know that.

And third, if Osama bin Laden and the other top leaders are still at 
large, we need a report describing what resources are needed to hunt 
them down and finally capture them.


I don't understand at all why year after year passes and those who 
directed the attacks against this country that killed thousands of 
innocent Americans are not brought to justice.

It is perfectly appropriate--in fact, it is essential--that we bring 
to the floor of the Senate a 9/11 Commission bill that helps protect 
this country. I commend the managers of the bill for it. I want to be 
out here helping pass this legislation. But that is one part of 
providing security.

Another part of providing security is to apprehend those who 
perpetrated the most aggressive attacks ever launched against this 
country. Apparently, based on the testimony of the heads of 
intelligence on two occasions in the last month, we know where they 
are. Yet they remain at large.

I asked a question the other day of the Secretary of Defense, the 
Secretary of State, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff when 
they testified. I asked the question: If we know where the leadership 
of al-Qaeda is and if this is the greatest threat to our country's 
security and our homeland, then why on Earth, if we have soldiers to 
surge, are we not trying to apprehend and bring to justice the 
leadership of al-Qaeda to destroy the leadership? I was told: Well, we 
can't just invade some other country to go find them.

I thought we were getting cooperation from this other country. If 
they are in Pakistan, are the Pakistanis cooperating with us? If not, 
are they harboring al-Qaeda? If they are not harboring them, then how 
about allowing us to work with them to bring to justice the leadership 
of the organization that poses the most significant terrorist threat to 
this country? When will that happen?

There are some who have said Osama bin Laden and the leadership of 
al-Qaeda do not matter. They are dead wrong. I think the intelligence 
community knows that. The question is, When will this country, with its 
capability, decide to eliminate the greatest terrorist threat to 
America?

Let me again quote what Mr. Negroponte said on January 11 of this 
year:




 Al Qaeda is the terrorist organization that poses the 


 greatest threat to U.S. interests, including to the Homeland.


How long will it be before this Congress can expect the same 
aggressive activity against the leadership of al-Qaeda as President 
Bush decided to take against Saddam Hussein? Saddam Hussein has been 
executed. He is gone. We understand this was a brutal dictator. We have 
unearthed mass graves with apparently somewhere near 400,000 skeletons 
of human beings murdered by that dictator. But he is executed; he is 
gone. Iraq has its own Constitution. They have their own Government. 
The question is, Do they have the will to provide for their security? 
That is another issue, and an important one.

We have American soldiers in harm's way in the middle of sectarian 
violence, in the middle of what clearly is now a civil war in Iraq. But 
when we talk about committing America's soldiers for this country's 
security, when will this President and this Congress decide to confront 
the greatest terrorist threat to our country and to our homeland--the 
leadership of al-Qaeda in a secure hideaway in Pakistan? Four days 
after 9/11, our President said that those who harbor terrorists are 
just like the terrorists. So let's decide to ask those in whose 
countries terrorists now reside to work with us to bring them to 
justice, to capture them, and to eliminate the leadership of the 
greatest terrorist threat to this country.

My colleague, Senator Conrad, and I have offered an amendment. We 
will hope it will be given a vote next week. It ought not be a 
controversial amendment for anybody in this Chamber. It is a deep 
reservoir of common sense, for a change, for us to do what we ought to 
do, and protect this country.


I yield the floor.