---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `bc9f29da85db21683357792bc9bb45ea`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 28 May 2010`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of the National Defense 
Authorization Act of 2011. The bill authorizes $726 billion for defense 
programs, global military operations and pay and benefits for active 
duty military personnel, veterans and their families. As Memorial Day 
approaches, we are reminded of the great debt we owe to our men and 
women in uniform. This bill continues our commitment to them, to their 
civilian colleagues, and to their families for their support and 
sacrifice.

The welfare and safety of our troops and their families is a priority 
of this Congress. That is why this bill authorizes funding to support 
not only the healthcare programs that our military personnel and their 
families depend on, but also the funding to ensure that our troops have 
the equipment and support they need for their mission.

In addition to authorizing funding for training, transportation and 
equipment, the measure includes additional funding specifically 
targeted to protecting troops in harm's way. For those currently 
serving on the front lines in Afghanistan and Iraq at risk of injury 
from improvised explosive devices, the bill authorizes $3.5 billion for 
counter measures, $3.4 billion for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected 
vehicles, and almost $1 billion to up-armored Humvees.

The sluggish economy places a special burden on the limited financial 
resources of military families. That is why the bill authorizes an 
average 1.9% pay increase for military personnel and establishes a 
career development pilot program for military spouses.

Healthcare for our troops and their families is a priority of this 
congress. The bill authorizes $32.4 billion for defense health care 
programs. This includes a one-time authorization for cash payments to 
severely wounded combat veterans for attendant care, an extension of 
health care coverage to dependent children of Tricare Beneficiaries up 
to age 26, and $524 million for medical research and development, 
including $3 million in extra funds for research in alcohol and 
substance abuse disorders. For those suffering from mental health 
problems associated with multiple deployments and Post Traumatic Stress 
Disorder, the bill also authorizes a 25% increase in the number of 
mental health providers for the military. According to the military, 
the number of military personnel who committed suicide in 2009, 
exceeded the number who died in combat in Afghanistan that year. This 
is a growing and silent killer that must be addressed.

I am pleased to report that the bill also authorizes $2.5 million for 
the Bethesda Hospitals Emergency Preparedness Partnership which 
includes the Naval Bethesda Medical Center, the National Institute of 
Health Clinical Center, the National Library of Medicine, and Suburban 
Hospital, to develop plans and procedures to respond rapidly and 
successfully to any emergency situation in the Washington DC region. 
And, the measure also authorizes $5 million for the Hydrodynamic Test 
Facilities at Carderock to replace the wavemaking equipment at the 
Carderock Division of the Naval Surface Warfare Center. These 
authorizations will not only strengthen our national security, they 
will also help create and retain good paying jobs for Montgomery and 
Prince George's county residents.

And, finally, I support the repeal of the discriminatory Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell policy. Since 1994, thousands of qualified and committed 
service members have been fired simply on the basis of their sexual 
orientation. At a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing in February, 
Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said, 
''I cannot escape being troubled by the fact that we have in place a 
policy that forces young men and women to lie about who they are in 
order to defend their fellow citizens.'' And, General Colin Powell, 
changing his long held position on Don't Ask Don't Tell recently said, 
''It's been a whole generation since the legislation was adopted, and 
there is increased acceptance of gays and lesbians in society. 
Attitudes and circumstances have changed.''

We cannot afford to turn away dedicated, talented and committed 
soldiers just because they are gay. Though this change will not go into 
effect until the Pentagon completes an ongoing review due in December, 
and the president and secretary of defense certify that a repeal is 
consistent with the military's standards of readiness and 
effectiveness, the end of this discriminatory policy is finally in 
sight.

Madam Speaker, this bill authorizes much needed funding for vital 
programs that benefit our men and women in uniform, their civilian 
colleagues, our veterans and to their families. I urge its immediate 
passage.
