---
---

# MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO PROVISION GRANTING SPECIAL IMMIGRANT  STATUS FOR CERTAIN IRAQIS
## `bca31088a5139c8b44f3a68b6e137774`
`Mr. SCOTT of Virginia — 19 May 2008`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, we owe a duty to protect foreign nationals who provide 
valuable service to our soldiers, diplomats, and other government 
officials overseas. Often these individuals risk their lives and those 
of their families to assist and protect our endeavors and our people. 
It's only right that we give them the assistance and protection that 
they need.

When we pulled out of Vietnam, Vietnamese citizens who worked for our 
government, as well as their families, were at great risk of being 
killed if they remained in Vietnam. To protect them, we gave them the 
opportunity to resettle in the United States. That was the right thing 
to do then and it is the right thing to do now for those who help us in 
Iraq.

This bill addresses two problems that currently interfere with our 
ability to protect those who deserve our protection. The first is a 
drafting error in the new Special Immigrant Visa Program that we 
enacted in January for Iraqis whose lives were at risk because of their 
valuable service to our government. The visas under this program were 
supposed to be available beginning this fiscal year, but the drafting 
error has rendered these visas unavailable until the next fiscal year. 
In the interim, we can't help those who need our help. Many of those 
could die because of this drafting error. This bill would correct the 
drafting error to ensure that these visas can be immediately accessed.

S. 2829 also serves to assist several hundred Iraqi and Afghan 
translators who, because of the error, continue to apply for visas 
under the older program. Although many of their applications have been 
processed and approved, they can can't come to the United States 
because of a cap at 500 visas in the program that has already been 
reached.

Despite having the support of the Department of Defense, the 
Department of State and the Department of Homeland Security, these 
translators are without recourse and remain in danger. This bill 
addresses the problem by creating a 4-month transitional period under 
which the administration can allow persons with approved petitions in 
the old program to use one of the 5,000 visas in the new program.

We have all seen in the news that those who have chosen to help us in 
our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan are truly risking their lives for 
our Nation's interests. They are targeted by insurgents for having 
helped us, their families are targeted, and this bill helps us protect 
them.

I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.