---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `bcab29b510148909097a741ae5748554`
`Mr. MOLLOHAN — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. MOLLOHAN. I thank the gentleman.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the resolution opposing the 
President's decision to escalate this war. My position on the Iraq war 
is uncomplicated. I voted against the initial war resolution back in 
2002, mostly because I never believed the President made a compelling 
argument that Iraq posed the sort of substantive threat to the United 
States that would justify war, and the considerable human, political, 
and financial costs that it would bring.



I thought it was a bad decision at the time, and I think it is a bad 
decision today.

In my limited time this afternoon, I would like to comment on a 
couple of refrains that we keep hearing. The first is the President's 
repeated criticism that those who support this resolution are 
prejudging a plan that hasn't even been ''given a chance to work.'' He 
makes that charge with a tone of wonderment, as though somehow it 
weren't our duty to anticipate the consequences of different courses of 
action and to avoid the bad ones before embracing them. If more of us 
had prejudged his 2002 decision, taking us to war before it was ''given 
a chance to work,'' we wouldn't be having this debate today.

The difference between today and 2002 is that a majority of this 
House and this Congress are no longer willing to give the President the 
benefit of the doubt he enjoyed 5 years ago. We are no longer willing 
to suspend judgment and trust the decider. That should surprise 
precisely no one.

For 4 years we have been asked to trust this administration, to 
trust, as the Vice President emphatically declared, that they knew 
where the weapons of mass destruction are; to trust that the Iraqis 
would welcome us as liberators; to trust that we had a large enough 
invasion force to stabilize the country; to trust that the Shi'a would 
find common cause with the Sunni and the Kurd in a united Iraq; to 
trust that Iraq's oil reserves would pay for its reconstruction; to 
trust that Iraq would serve as a beacon of democratic ideals throughout 
the Middle East; to trust that those early signs of a growing 
insurgency were nothing more than the ''last throes of a few dead-
enders.''

And now the President asks us not to prejudge his plan to put another 
21,000 Americans in harm's way. He asks us to trust him yet again. With 
respect and humility, Madam Speaker, I ask him, how can we? And how can 
he even ask it of us? Paraphrasing the President, fool me once, shame 
on you. Fool me five times, shame on me.

And another criticism of this measure that we have heard repeated 
over and over this week is that, as a nonbinding resolution, its 
passage and this debate is meaningless.

Madam Speaker, this resolution is far from meaningless. If need be, 
Congress will end this war with binding legislation. As even the 
President acknowledged, we retain the power of the purse, and we have 
ample opportunity to exercise that power.

But just as wars should be started with a united government, so, too, 
should wars be ended with a united government. And that is the 
meaningfulness of this resolution. It is the last chance to draw this 
government back together on Iraq. It is the last call for us to work 
together, Democratic and Republican, legislative and executive, on 
ending this war. It is the last call for the President to come back to 
the people.

He may ignore that call. He may dismiss this resolution and this 
debate as meaningless. He may dismiss the voice of the people expressed 
through 439 newly elected Representatives as meaningless. But if he 
does, Madam Speaker, he forces us to move forward without him. I hope 
that doesn't happen.

I urge my colleagues to vote for this resolution, and I urge the 
President to listen to this debate and to join with us.