# CHALLENGES AND TROUBLES WITH OUR ECONOMY
## `bcb90c475e0bde52e86c180db993d834`
`Mr. AKIN — 25 March 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, it's a pleasure to join you this evening and 
to talk about some issues that are of significance to all of us. And I 
thought that what we might do this evening, starting out, was just take 
a look at--many people are conscious of the fact that we've got some 
challenges and troubles with the economy. People are aware that we have 
a problem with jobs and having enough jobs to go around. We have some 
difficulties on Wall Street, as people know. We have difficulties on 
Main Street.

We have been told over a period of the last six or 7 years that we 
spent a whole lot, too much money in the war in Iraq and in 
Afghanistan. In fact, we have been regaled every day with stories about 
oh, we're spending more and more money.

But just to kind of put perspective on how much we have been spending 
lately, let's just consider the 6 years of the war in Iraq and add up 
all the money we spent in the war in Iraq, and then let's add to that 
the amount of money that we spent in Afghanistan. And you put the two 
together, and it's less money than we've spent in the first five weeks 
when this Congress was in session. That's kind of an amazing number.

We spent this, supposedly stimulus bill, $840 billion. What is $840 
billion? Well, it's more money than we've spent in both of these wars 
over the past six and 7 years all added up, combined.

So how did we get into this situation that we are spending so 
tremendously much money?

I recall, the President made a statement. It said, ''We cannot simply 
spend as we please and defer the consequences.'' And many of the 
President's statements are noteworthy. This is a good statement. ''We 
cannot simply spend as we please and defer the consequences.''

The only question is, when you take a look at the level of spending, 
these


blue bars was President Bush, and these red bars, now, become the 
Democrats and particularly, here, this is this year. Now, this is not, 
doesn't have projections in it for economists making all kinds of 
predictions. This is actually what we are spending. And you see how 
much the spending has gone up. And so this line doesn't square too well 
with ''We can't simply spend as we please and defer the consequences.''

So how did we get into this really heavy, big spending kind of 
situation?

I think it's helpful--people say, oh, we just have to keep looking 
ahead and solving problems. I think it's good to look ahead and solve 
problems. I think it's also possible to take a look and see where did 
we make mistakes and what do we need to make sure that we don't do 
again. I90[H25MR9-R1]{H4012}

And if you take a look at how we got the economy in trouble, the 
story goes back, actually, a good number of years. It goes back even as 
far back as 1968, and that was when Fannie Mae was created. It's called 
a government-sponsored enterprise. It's not really private. It's not 
really government. It's sort of half and half. And so '68 we created 
Fannie Mae, and then in 1970, Freddie Mac. And the purpose of these 
organizations was to make it so that Americans could afford to own 
homes. And that is, of course a good thing. We all appreciate the 
American dream, particularly having, when you come home after a hard 
day's work, have a place that's really your palace. Maybe not a fancy 
palace, but it's at least a place where there should be some peace and 
when you can say yeah, this is my house. And that's always been part of 
the American dream.

And the idea was to create these agencies, to allow more people to 
have a chance to own their own home. And that was what a good enough 
idea to start with. But then we started to tamper with the idea some in 
1977 with the Community Reinvestment Act, which mandated that Freddie 
and Fannie--or in the Community Reinvestment Act it mandated more banks 
had to make loans that were risky loans, not the sort of loan that a 
local bank would know the people living in their area and they'd say, 
oh, this is a good guy and he wants to buy a home, but we know he'll be 
able to pay his loan, so we'll go ahead and make that loan and we'll 
keep that on our books and allow that to go forward. And then every 
month we know this man in our community, we know he'll pay off his loan 
and soon he'll be a proud homeowner.

No, this was not what happened with the Community Reinvestment Act. 
What we're saying now is that banks have to lend money to people who 
might not be able to repay those loans, and the government's starting 
to say, you've got to make these loans that are not so good.

Well, in 1992, the Federal Housing Enterprise Financial Safety and 
Soundness Act mandated that Freddie and Fannie buy risky loans from the 
banks. So now pretty soon, you've got this and it's gone a little 
further. It's not just that the bank is going to make some risky loans, 
but now the bank has the option of dumping the risky loans on Freddie 
and Fannie. So you can see where this is going. What's starting to 
happen is that we're passing the accountability. And guess who's 
finally going to end up holding the bag? You guessed it, the U.S. 
taxpayer.

Well, here's what's going on. Now, this enterprise is saying you can 
take these bad loans, pass them on to Freddie and Fannie. Well.

Then we go to 1999, and under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, this is 
where President Clinton expanded the number of bad loans, not maybe bad 
loans, but much more risky loans that Freddie and Fannie had to take. 
And so Freddie and Fannie now are picking up more and more of loans 
where it's not so clear people are going to be able to pay these 
things. And so Freddie and Fannie start to do some exciting footwork 
with their finances, and start packaging these loans up in unique ways, 
and selling them, through Wall Street, all over the world. And so this 
is going on in '99.

Now, other things are starting to take effect here. The economy was 
not so good in '99. And so, Greenspan, at that time, lowered the 
interest rate, took it way down so it created a whole lot of available 
liquidity, and the housing bubble starts going. And this was the year 
that I was elected to Congress, 2000. So 2001, if I'd come down here, I 
was really kicking myself by 2005 because anybody who bought a house in 
Washington, D.C., why, that house would have doubled in value in about 
5 years. You're saying why in the world didn't I buy some big house in 
D.C.? And then later on you think, I'm glad I didn't.

But anyway, we haven't gotten there yet. So this is what's happening 
in 1999. Then things start to--the train starts to come off the track.

In 2003, Freddie and Fannie get investigated by The Securities and 
Exchange, and they admit that $1.2 billion accounting error. At that 
particular time, President Bush, seeing that, had been warned. Now 
there'd been some warnings before, back in 1999. New York Times, 
there's an editorial saying, we are setting up a problem. And here's 
the problem. You've got a whole bunch of loans that are very 
questionable, more and more questionable loans. And who is going to 
back up those loans? Who's going to end up having to pay for them if 
people default on their loans? So this is, who's going to pay? Well, 
Freddie and Fannie have all of these things. What's the implication? 
Well, Freddie and Fannie are backed by who? By the U.S. government. So 
if the loans are bad, now the U.S. government is, maybe not obligated, 
but pretty much obligated. By this time, Freddie and Fannie have got 
more than half of the home loans in America. So is the government going 
to turn their back and say, oops, all of this is stuff is just going to 
go away? No, of course. So this is starting to come along.

By 2003, the President sees these problems, and in this article, on 
September 11, 2003, the article, this is New York Times, September 11, 
2003, it says hear, ''The Bush administration today recommended the 
most significant regulatory overhaul in the housing finance industry 
since the savings and loan crisis a decade ago.''

So here you have, Republican President Bush is saying, uh-oh, guys. 
We've got trouble. We need to get into Freddie and Fannie. We need to 
regulate them some because they're starting to get wild and wooly with 
their financial wheeling and dealing, and what's going to happen is the 
government and the taxpayer are going to end up getting caught on the 
hook.

Well, what was the response? And did we go ahead and take the 
President's recommendation and move forward with further regulations of 
Freddie and Fannie?

Well, he was opposed. The same article in the New York Times, same 
one, September 11, 2003, the ranking Democrat of the Financial Services 
Committee, Congressman Frank, is quoted in this article. ''These two 
entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, are not facing any kind of 
financial crisis'' said Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts. 
Now, I think he didn't think they were facing any particular kind of 
crisis. But he was the ranking member on this committee. That means he 
was in the minority party in 2003. But he was opposed to what the 
President was suggesting, and that was a strong reining in of Freddie 
and Fannie's practices. Now, he, by himself, of course, couldn't stop a 
legislation because he was in the minority party.

So, following 2003, you have, in addition, you have the Bush 
administration in 2004, again, this is committee testimony saying, 
we've got to get on to Freddie and Fannie. And then by 2005, a bill was 
passed in the House. It was mostly, the one in the House was mostly 
voted for by Republicans. It was opposed by a majority of Democrats, or 
quite a number of Democrats. And the bill passes out of the House and 
then goes over to the Senate.

Now, the Senate is kind of an odd body because over there it takes 60 
votes to get something passed. And as the New York Times reported, the 
Democrats were not in favor of this additional regulation on Freddie 
and Fannie. So here is another version, the Senate bill 190, it's the 
Federal Housing Enterprise Regulatory Reform Act 2005. And the Senate, 
it was passed out of the Committee on Banking and Housing and Urban 
Affairs, but the floor action was blocked by the Democrat minority.

So there's a difference, a political difference here, that the 
Republicans were in support of more regulation of


Freddie and Fannie. Democrats were opposed to that, killed it over in 
the Senate.



Now, what happened then, of course, is that all of these bad loans 
spiraled more and more out of control, and as they did so, they started 
to create havoc in other parts of the economy. Now, was this problem 
created entirely because Democrats refused to regulate Freddie and 
Fannie? No, not entirely because of that. It was a very important 
component. Certainly, the bad loans are what put us on track for a very 
serious world economic situation. There was more to it, though.

There were people on Wall Street, such as Standard & Poor's and two 
other rating agencies--the ones that give us our credit ratings 
personally. They are the ones that said that all of these mortgage-
backed securities were a AAA rating. Well, that turns out to also have 
been not a very wise thing, and they were not AAA rated. In fact, most 
of them have gone into default enough so that there is no longer any 
market for these mortgage-backed securities. So now we are at the point 
in the last year or two where we have what is clearly a recession on 
our hands. So what do you do with a recession? There are two basic 
theories about how you handle this.

The first one goes back to FDR and to his Secretary of the Treasury, 
Henry Morgenthau. Morgenthau, along with a guy, little Lord Keynes--he 
was a little weird, but he was an economist anyway--came up with this 
idea that when the economy gets in trouble what you have got to do is 
to stimulate it, and so what we are going to do is spend a whole lot of 
money, and that is going to make the economy a lot better. So they 
tried that during the Great Depression. After 8 years of stimulating--
that is, spending tons and tons of taxpayer money--you have the guy who 
really came up with this scheme, Henry Morgenthau, now appearing before 
the House Ways and Means Committee in the year 1939. He talks about: 
How well does it work if the government spends a whole lot of money to 
get itself out of an economic fix? Well, here is what his quote was:

''We have tried spending money. We are spending more than we have 
ever spent before, and it does not work.''

This is the guy who supports this Keynesian model of economics, which 
says, hey, the more you spend money, the more it's going to fix the 
economy. After 8 years of the administration, we have just as much 
unemployment as when we started--and an enormous debt to boot.

Now, this is a lesson that Henry Morgenthau learned in 1939. He 
learned it at the cost of 8 years of Americans being out of jobs. He 
realized that this does not work. The Japanese did not learn the 
lesson, and in the '70s, they took their economy through 10 years of 
big government spending to try to get their economy going, and it did 
not work.

So what we have then is the problem of an approach to fixing an 
economic crisis which creates unemployment, and of course 
unemployment--lost jobs--really, really hurt an awful lot of common 
people. A lot of people who have worked hard all of their lives, who 
are trying to pay their mortgages off, lose their jobs, and now their 
houses are foreclosed. I think sometimes, in my own mind, of being the 
father of a family with a wife and with kids depending on me. I think 
of what it would be like to come home at night and see your living room 
furniture sitting on the sidewalk, and you're being tossed out of your 
house. That is the kind of thing we risk when we start using bad 
government policies. When we start to take this process of having 
people being encouraged to take loans that they cannot afford to take, 
we lose jobs, and things start to come undone.

There is a different approach, another way, of dealing with a 
recession. One way of dealing with a recession that we mentioned is, of 
course, the Keynesian model, or the idea of spending your way out of 
trouble. Now, we need a little bit of common sense down in Washington, 
D.C. We need a little common sense in Congress. Most people in a lot of 
our districts know that, if you get in trouble economically, the thing 
you do is you don't go buy a brand new car and spend money like mad, 
hoping it's going to get better. That's just plain crazy, and yet that 
seems to be what the government is doing.

Let's take a look and see what our response has been, because there 
is another approach. There was the same approach that was used by JFK, 
by Ronald Reagan and by President Bush, all three times effectively 
turning a recession into good, solid economic times. I've got a couple 
of charts here. I just want to throw a couple of these up because this 
is the heart of where we are in America today, and it affects every 
man, woman and child in our country.

What I have here right in front of me is the danger of using that 
Keynesian model--spending money out of control. Let's take a look at 
this chart. This is a pretty easy one to understand. I know charts are 
sometimes a little confusing or you have to try and figure out what 
they're saying, but this just tells you whether or not the family 
budget got balanced. Every single one of these bars is a line, and if 
the line goes down, it means the government spent too much money. If 
the line goes up, it says we actually did not spend as much as we took 
in. So, just like the family budget, the down lines mean, uh-oh, we 
went into debt. We're going back all the way here to 1980 and are going 
out here to this very year where we are.

So what has happened? Well, we've been spending too much money for a 
long time here. About how much too much? Well, you know, $3 billion to 
$400 billion worth. That's a lot of money. Here we had a couple of good 
years where we actually made some money. This was a Republican 
Congress. Bill Clinton and the Congress said we're not going to spend 
much money, and there were some disagreements. We actually saved some 
money for a couple of years. These years right in here are the 8 years 
of Bush, and Bush was criticized for spending too much money. I voted 
against some of that spending, and here is what the spending was:

You can see that probably the worst spending was somewhere in the 
range of about $400 billion. Now take a look at what happened this year 
in 2009. My goodness, this is absolutely unprecedented. That is the 
level of spending in 2009. Guess what? We're not done with 2009 yet. So 
this tells you that we have taken an approach which is saying, boy, are 
we going to spend some money. You can say that, maybe, President Bush 
spent too much money. I think he did, but it is nowhere near what we're 
seeing, and so this spending pattern seems to be in great contradiction 
with the statement that says: We cannot simply spend as we please and 
defer the consequences. This is what he said, but look at what we are 
doing.

I am joined here in the Chamber tonight by a very good friend of mine 
from Louisiana, Congressman Scalise.

I know that you've been paying attention to some of these issues and 
have already, rapidly, distinguished yourself here in the Congress. I 
would appreciate it if you would give us your perspective on what's 
going on this evening.