---
---

# None
## `bcbcf0ab759203984a6e96f7ddf90ec5`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 533 provides for consideration of H.R. 2956, the 
Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act, under a closed rule. The rule 
provides 4 hours of debate, with 3 hours equally divided and controlled 
by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 
Services and 1 hour equally divided and controlled by the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs. The rule waives all points of order against the bill 
and its consideration except those arising under clause 9 or 10 under 
rule XX. The rule provides for one motion to recommit.

Mr. Speaker, let's be very clear about what we will be told today by 
the President. We will be told that adequate progress has been made in 
some areas of Iraq but more work needs to be done in others. What this 
really means, of course, is that once again security and political 
benchmarks have not been met, that vast areas in Baghdad that were 
supposed to be under control by now are not, that a drop in violence in 
some areas has been met with increases in violence elsewhere, that 
political compromises are not being made with sufficient speed by the 
Iraqi leadership, nor is there any available evidence that the 
situation is going to change, that the escalation will suddenly become 
more effective next week or next month. Instead, all signs indicate 
that in September when General Petraeus reports to Congress, he will 
deliver the exact same message that we are hearing today: to be 
patient.

But patience means nothing when deadlines are constantly moved. In 
January a leading Member of the minority said that we would be able to 
tell in a few months if the escalation was working. Now we hear it is 
still too early to tell. It has been 7 months. Which prediction are we 
supposed to believe?

As time has advanced, an absence in progress has not been met by an 
absence in tragedy. At the present rates, between now and September, 
another 200 Americans will be killed, 200 more families changed 
forever. And hundreds, if not thousands, more innocent Iraqis will have 
died as well.

We will hear today that to change our course in Iraq will signal 
defeat. But this willfully ignores the entire history of the Iraq War. 
After more than 4 years of relentless conflict, including recent months 
of historically high troop numbers, experts tell us that in Iraq al 
Qaeda is stronger than ever. A military official told ABC News 
yesterday al Qaeda's ''operational capability appears to be 
undiminished.''

The conclusion is clear: The American military is not being given a 
chance to bring peace to Iraq or to fight our enemies, not because our 
troops are not good enough but because the current mission is 
inherently flawed.

It is not weakness to admit a strategy is not working and to change 
it. It is the very opposite: a sign of strength. Our leaders corrected 
failing courses when they arose during the Civil War and during World 
War II. Why should this war be different?

What Democrats are calling for today is not a retreat. It is not a 
surrender. It is a statement that Congress will not wait for another 
ambiguous so-called progress report and will not give the 
administration another chance to move the goalposts. Instead, we will 
refuse to needlessly sacrifice our soldiers, weaken our military, 
undermine our national security, and bleed our country in ways that 
even the worst terrorists could ever dream of. And it is a statement to 
the Iraqi people that they will no longer have to live as dual victims: 
victims of violence and victims of a flawed military strategy that is 
at best failing to bring peace to the country and at worst perpetuating 
their suffering.

The bill will refocus our troops on fighting terrorists. By doing so, 
the disastrous strain being placed on our Armed Forces will be lifted 
without sacrificing security objectives, and their healing can begin.

Second, it will remove a strategy from the playing field that is 
certainly not working and throw open the door to new approaches which 
may actually succeed. For example, the legislation requires the 
President to report by January on how he is engaging U.S. allies and 
regional powers in the effort to bring stability to Iraq. Far from 
abandoning the Iraqis or lessening American security, we will finally 
make the rehabilitation of Iraq the international priority that it must 
become. The only thing we will be abandoning, in other words, Mr. 
Speaker, is this administration's mistakes.

And to my friends on both sides of the aisle, yesterday I received an 
advance copy of a report from the Defense Department's Inspector 
General that will be made public today. It detailed the work of some of 
the first companies to make armored vehicles and armored kits for our 
soldiers in Iraq. They were given sole-source, unbid contracts even 
though senior defense officials objected, favoring a competitive 
process instead.

I hope people heard what I said. Senior officials at DOD wanted 
competitive bidding for these machines, but they were overridden by the 
Under Secretary of Defense.

The results were sadly predictable. The companies failed to meet 
demand and sent critically important equipment late. Some of the armor 
that our soldiers were sent had cracks that had simply been painted 
over to try to fool them instead of fixing it. In certain instances two 
left doors were sent for the same vehicle. Troops already fighting a 
deadly foe had to use their precious time and energy to improvise and 
come up with ways to turn useless equipment into something that could 
protect them.

Our soldiers have been asked to endure terrible hardships, as well 
have their families, some of which, I am ashamed to say, have been the 
direct result of the practices of this administration, and they are 
enduring them to this day and at this very hour. For Congress to leave 
them there, to ask them to continue fighting to survive under the 
mounting weight of a flawed mission--that, Mr. Speaker, is the true 
definition of abandonment. And after 4 years, Democrats are tired of 
this Congress abandoning our troops to a fate they have never deserved.

I would ask everyone in this Chamber how they would justify this 
continued carnage to the families of our soldiers. With all we know 
now, how can we still say to the children of those killed or to the 
young men and women maimed for life, your loss was needed?



We cannot. What we must say to them is this: You have given enough. 
It is time to come home.

The American people know what must be done and the majority of this 
Congress knows what must be done. And all that remains is for those of 
us here who are still opposed to this bill to decide that they too have 
had enough and that they will join their countrymen in voting not with 
the President but with the troops, with the people of Iraq, and with 
the people of the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.