# AMERICAN HOUSING RESCUE AND FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008--
## `bcbda50a870b37697a2fc854cee22160`
`Mr. DORGAN — 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I have noticed that late this afternoon a 
number of speakers have come to the floor of the Senate decrying the 
fact that there is not oil drilling here or there or elsewhere and 
suggesting that they and they alone have the answer to our energy 
problems. I wish to respond by saying this issue of drilling for oil is 
an important issue. I, along with my colleagues, Senator Bingaman, 
Senator Domenici, and Senator Talent, introduced the bill in the Senate 
that opened what is called Lease 181 in the Gulf of Mexico. That is now 
law. We now have companies exploring for oil and gas in Lease 181 in 
the Gulf of Mexico. Why? Because I think it makes sense to do that. If 
you take a look at the oil reserves in Outer Continental Shelf, in the 
Gulf of Mexico, off the west coast, and off Alaska, by far the majority 
of the available reserves are in the Gulf of Mexico.

But having said all that, we are already drilling in a lot of areas--
including in North Dakota. I asked the U.S. Geological Survey to do an 
assessment of oil resources in what is called the Bakken Shale 
formation in North Dakota. I asked them to perform the assessment about 
2 years ago. They completed their report a couple months ago, and they 
estimated that there is 3.6 to 4.3 billion barrels of recoverable oil 
using today's technology in eastern Montana and western North Dakota. 
So now we have nearly 80 drilling rigs drilling in western North 
Dakota. I don't know how many are in Montana, but there is a 
substantial amount of drilling activity, which I strongly support.

This is the largest assessment of recoverable oil ever made in the 
lower 48 States. Let me say that again. The U.S. Geological Survey just 
completed its assessment that there is up to 4.3 billion barrels of 
recoverable oil using today's technology and we have oil companies 
there drilling and I support it. We are drilling in this country, in 
North Dakota, eastern Montana, and we have other oilfields. This 
happens to be a brand new one, the biggest assessment ever made in the 
lower 48. It is exciting, in my judgment.

As I indicated, we have activity happening now in Lease 181 in the 
Gulf because we opened that. Off of Cuba, it is estimated that there is 
a half million barrels a day that is available for leasing by the 
Cubans. Many countries have leases there--Spain is there, Canada is 
there, India is there, and Venezuela is there. They are very 
interested. But our companies can't secure the leases because the Bush 
administration says, no, we can't drill in Cuban waters. We have this 
embargo with respect to Cuba. So there is a half million barrels that 
our oil companies can't produce.

I say to my colleagues: You want to drill? Let's allow our companies 
to go access some of that off the coast of Cuba. China wants to be 
there, and India wants to be there, but we can't be there.

The fact is we need to do a lot of things and do a lot of things well 
if we are going to address this energy issue. Now, the price of oil is 
bouncing around at $140, $144 a barrel. My understanding is that in the 
last 4 or 5 minutes of trading today, it went up, I was told, $4 or $5 
a barrel. There is unbelievable, relentless, in my judgment reckless, 
speculation going on in the oil futures market. Now, it wouldn't matter 
so much if these were future markets dealing with something that wasn't 
so essential to the economic well-being of our country, but our country 
desperately needs oil. We run on oil. The fact is we use a prodigious 
amount of it.

I have described before, on many occasions, the way this works. We 
have a substantial amount of oil halfway around the world under the 
sands. That is where there is a lot of the oil. The largest reserve is 
in Saudi Arabia, second and third is either Iran or Iraq, depending on 
how you count reserves in those two countries. So the largest reserve 
is in Saudi Arabia, then Iran and Iraq. But where is the largest 
demand? Well, here in the United States.

We suck out 86 million barrels a day from this planet. Of that 86 
million barrels of oil we suck out from these little straws called 
drilling rigs and pumps, we use one-fourth of it here in this spot on 
the planet called the United States of America. We are big users of 
energy.

So what do we do to address this issue when oil prices spike like 
Roman candles to $140 a barrel, and it does enormous damage to our 
country, to our economy, and injures farmers, families, truckers, and 
airlines? What do we do? We do a lot of everything, it seems to me.

I described that we are drilling exciting new wells in our region of 
the country. We are going to be drilling in Lease 181 in the Gulf of 
Mexico. But in addition to drilling, we need to do a lot more. We need 
substantial, aggressive conservation. We need significant efficiency 
and conservation. Everything we use throughout the day--if we turn a 
switch, push a button, dial a knob, turn a key--everything we do all 
day long has to do with energy. We get up in the morning and we want 
light, in the closet, in the bedroom. We use our finger to flip a 
switch, not understanding, of course, so much--because we take it for 
granted--that is energy. Perhaps we use an electric razor, then heat a 
pot of coffee, then put a key in the ignition of a vehicle. Every one 
of those actions is using energy, and we never give it a second 
thought.

Now, all the things we have--yes, including air-conditioners and 
refrigerators--can be made much, much, much more efficient. We are 
getting rid of the incandescent light bulb. It will not be long until 
you will never see another one because we can find ways to produce 
light for all our manufacturing facilities and our homes all across 
this country with 80 percent less electricity than we now use. So we 
need to engage in conservation, efficiency, and then renewables.


Now, renewables represent something our country ought to say to the 
world: Here is where we are headed. Yes, we are going to drill some and 
do all these things. We are going to conserve and develop more 
efficient methods of using all this electricity. But it is also the 
case that renewables represent a significant opportunity. Renewables, 
with respect to wind energy and solar and biomass and biofuels.

You know what we have done for renewables? Well, in 1992, the 
Congress put in place something called the production tax credit--a tax 
incentive for renewables. But it was short term and not very deep. So 
we have extended it five times, short term. By the way, the production 
tax credit will expire at the end of this year. We have extended it 
five times, and we let it expire three times. So anybody interested in 
investing in renewables will take a look at this country and say: You 
don't have much of a commitment to renewables. Look what you have done, 
stutter, start, stop. That is not a commitment.

Here is what we did for oil. In 1916, we put in place tax 
incentives--big, juicy, fat tax incentives--and we said: We want you to 
go look for oil and gas. If you find them, good for you because that is 
good for our country, and you get big tax incentives. We put the 
incentives in place in 1916 and they have stayed forever. What did we 
do for renewables? Well, in 1992 we gave them a tax credit, which has 
gone through the phases of start, stop, start, stop, expire. That is a 
pathetic, anemic response by a country that acts like it doesn't care 
very much.



I have introduced legislation in this Congress that says: You know 
what, we ought to put in place a production tax credit for renewables 
for 10 years. We ought to say to the world: Here is where we are 
headed, and you can count on it. Here is what we believe in, and you 
can count on it. This country is making a significant concerted effort 
for renewable energy, to be less dependent on the Saudis, the Kuwaitis, 
the Venezuelans, and others. That is what our country has a 
responsibility to do.

So we need to do a lot of things. At the moment, however, I wish to 
concentrate on not the myriad of things we must do and do well, but I 
wish to talk about the urgent need to do something that addresses this 
spike, this unbelievable spike in oil prices and, therefore, gasoline 
prices that has happened in the last 12 to 14 months.

There is nothing in the supply and demand of oil that justifies this 
kind of a price spike. Nothing. In fact, if anything, demand is down. 
Today's newspaper describes that we are using 2 percent less gasoline 
here in this country. The first 4 of 5 months in this country we had 
increased inventory of crude oil stocks. Inventory is up, demand is 
down. What happens to price? It goes straight up. Why? Because there is 
excess speculation in the futures market.

Those futures markets were designed for a specific purpose and that 
was to allow producers and consumers to hedge risk of a physical 
product--perfectly legitimate and an important thing to do. It has now, 
in my judgment, been taken over by excess speculation. Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt warned about that in 1936, when he signed the legislation 
that created this market.

Now we have unbelievable speculation in this market. The new pension 
funds and others that have come into this marketplace in a few short 
years have spiked from investing somewhere around $13 billion to $260 
billion. Are the people flooding into this marketplace wanting to hold 
a 5-gallon can of oil? No, these interests never want to touch oil. 
They never want to own oil. They want to do what Will Rogers talked 
about 80 years ago: They want to buy what they will never get from 
people who never had it and make money on both sides. And then walk 
around with a permanent grin, walking into the bank with our money to 
make their deposits. Yes, the OPEC countries do that and so do these 
speculators as they have driven up the prices. The problem is it 
injures this country's economy.

It is devastating, for example, to various industries--the trucking 
industry, the airline industry, and farming to have such high oil 
prices. It's also devastating to ordinary consumers, trying to figure 
out how on Earth do I scrape up the money to fill my gas tank to be 
able to drive back and forth to work. How do I do that?

Now, I think we have a responsibility to address this excess 
speculation. When markets are broken, we have a responsibility to 
address it. I have often said I taught economics ever so briefly in 
college. I taught a little economics, and I kid people by saying I was 
able to overcome that experience. Economics is psychology pumped up 
with a little helium. People think: Well, we know this produces that, 
there is an action and a reaction--supply and demand. We all understand 
that. The problem is, at the moment, if you take a look at this 
country, its economy, and what the psychology of the American people is 
as they look at what is happening in this country, there is a pretty 
good reason to be very concerned about the future and a pretty good 
reason to believe we need action that is urgent, important action that 
actually has some grip and some teeth.

We have been through a subprime loan scandal. The credit markets were 
frozen. The fact is we had an orgy of greed in these credit markets and 
a lot of problems still exist. In fact, some of the resets on some of 
these bad mortgages are still in front of us. So take a look at that 
kind of a credit crisis and the subprime loan scandal and then combine 
that with the issue of the deficits, dramatic Federal budget deficits 
because we are fighting a war the President will not pay for. He says 
everything we use for this war, I want to borrow, and he has borrowed 
almost three-quarters of a trillion dollars for it. He refuses to pay 
for it. I will send the soldiers to war, and I ask the American people 
to go shopping, he says.

The subprime loan scandal, unbelievable fiscal policy recklessness, a 
trade policy out of balance over $700 billion a year. You can't do 
that. Then, on top of that, the price of oil going to $144, and we 
think this economy is able to withstand that? This is a resilient 
economy, the American people are resilient people, but they expect and 
demand appropriate action by this Congress.

Now, we have people who view themselves as a set of human brake pads. 
Their only role in life is to come to the floor of the Senate and say: 
Oh, no, no, no. You can't do that. We are going to dig in our heels and 
prevent anyone from doing anything. That is not public policy we should 
be proud of. We are trying very hard to construct some public policy in 
all these areas that give us a chance to move forward. I know there are 
reasons for some to object to certain activities. But we have seen, in 
the last 5 or 6 months, a steady stream of people coming to this floor 
and saying: My goal is to stop anything from happening. Meanwhile, all 
these issues pile up in a way I think is a danger to this country's 
future and a danger to our economy. It is starting with this issue of 
energy, as I began the discussion today.

We have a responsibility in the short term, and I know the majority 
leader and others believe it as well.

We have a responsibility to at least tackle excess speculation and 
the relentless dangerous speculation of this commodity futures market 
that is driving up the price of oil and injuring this country's 
economy.

I have introduced legislation to do that. I hope to talk about it 
tomorrow. Some others have also introduced legislation. We ought to 
take the best of the legislation that exists and move forward to 
address this country's problems.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.