---
---

# TRIBUTE TO MARINE LANCE CORPORAL DANIEL CHAIRES
## `bcbfdb9baf74698c3367944215d55dcc`
`Mr. BOYD of Florida — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. BOYD of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to applaud the valor 
and honor the legacy of a brave young man who gave his life to his 
country while serving in Iraq. Marine LCpl Daniel Chaires was killed on 
October 25, 2006, at the age of 20 in a gun battle with Iraqi 
insurgents. Daniel has left a wonderful legacy of devotion to his 
family, the community, his church, the Marines, and our great country.

As a descendent of one of Leon County's pioneer families, Daniel has 
deep roots in North Florida. His hometown of Chaires, Florida, and 
Chaires Elementary School are named after his family. On Friday, 
Chaires Elementary School will celebrate the life and military service 
of Marine LCpl Daniel Chaires. The school will be dedicating a 
patriotic mural and a monument in honor of Daniel, who was a young man 
of great courage and character.

As an active and energetic member of the community, Daniel touched 
the lives of so many. I know that his family and friends will always 
remember Daniel as a source of strength, inspiration, and leadership.

As a Vietnam veteran, a father, and a fellow American, I would like 
to pay tribute to Marine LCpl Daniel Chaires. We honor him, we thank 
him, and we will never forget the ultimate sacrifice he made for his 
country and for the cause of freedom. I know that his family is 
immensely proud of him and his service, and we are all in his debt.
