---
---

# None
## `bcbf79853bae14814db7743659ab01f3`
`Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas — 8 July 2008`

---


Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay special 
tribute to General T. Michael ''Buzz'' Moseley, 18th Chief of Staff of 
the U.S. Air Force, an exemplary patriot and extraordinary leader, who, 
on July 9, 2008, completed 37 years of distinguished service to our 
Nation.

General Moseley began his accomplished career at Texas A&M and Webb 
AFB, where he earned his wings in 1973. He proceeded to a series of 
demanding assignments as flight instructor, test pilot and mission 
commander. His peerless operational skills were honed by the most 
prestigious positions, to include command at every level--most notably 
the Air Force Fighter Weapons School, the 9th Air Force, and the U.S. 
Central Command Air Forces. General Moseley led airmen in peace, 
crisis, and war--from Operation Southern Watch, through the harrowing 
days in the wake of September the 11, 2001, to engaging the Taliban in 
Operation Enduring Freedom and the destruction of Saddam Hussein's war 
machine in Operation Iraqi Freedom.

The breadth of General Moseley's assignments and the professionalism 
with which he has carried them out, reflect a keen intellect and 
unrivaled grasp of national security policies and air power's role in 
implementing them. Equally impressive, has been General Moseley's 
staunch, consistent advocacy of inter-Service and international 
cooperation as the most effective way of assuring allies, dissuading 
and deterring adversaries, and defeating implacable foes.

A brilliant speaker with a sharp wit and endearing style, General 
Moseley has frequently testified before the Congress on a wide variety 
of issues critical to the Air Force's--and the Nation's--readiness to 
face an uncertain future. However controversial the topic or pointed 
the questioning, he has always been a most poised, eloquent proponent 
of balancing current exigencies with future requirements. His focus has 
remained unwavering: assure that USAF remains America's asymmetric 
advantage--our Nation's multidimensional, global maneuver force--the 
force of first and last resort.


As the 18th Chief of Staff and a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
from September 2005 to August 2008, General Moseley has been a trusted 
advisor on all aspects of airpower and its key role in promoting and 
defending America's interests at home and abroad. His 37 years of 
distinguished service epitomize bold leadership, strategic vision, 
intellectual flexibility, innovation, honor, integrity, dignity and 
selfless devotion.

His exceptional grasp of war-fighters' needs, born of his own 
combatant experience, has enabled the Air Force to provide 
unprecedented Global Reach, Global Vigilance and Global Power for both 
traditional and non-traditional missions. Under his leadership, the Air 
Force spread its wings over America's cities, delivered relief to 
victims of tsunamis and hurricanes, expanded international ties to 
reassure allies and deter enemies--all while flying and fighting as an 
indispensable part of the Joint force in Iraq, Afghanistan and other 
theaters of the Global War on Terror.

His commitment to his Airmen has been peerless. In a constrained 
fiscal environment--and with lives in the balance--General Moseley's 
uncommon courage, expertise and foresight have forged a set of 
transformational initiatives designed to spark an intellectual 
renaissance while recapitalizing an aging air fleet, worn down by 18 
years of continuous combat. He has sought to provide his Airmen with 
the quality of life they deserve, while seeing to their training, 
education and leadership. He has refocused the Service on a single core 
mission: bolstering warrior ethos and fostering joint and combined 
synergies.

He has worked tirelessly to reinvigorate the innovation, flexibility, 
and creative, strategic thinking that have been Airmen's hallmarks 
since the dawn of aviation. In the context of this conceptual, 
organizational and technological transformation, General Moseley has 
redefined the Air Force for the 21st Century, ensuring that America's 
guardians will continue to fly, fight and win in both today's battles 
and in tomorrow's crucibles.

While many distinguished awards and decorations adorn his uniform--
from his own grateful Nation as well as from such staunch allies as 
Britain, France, Korea, Brazil, Singapore, and the UAE--what stands out 
most and what we honor him for today is his unflinching commitment to 
the cause of freedom and justice. General T. Michael ''Buzz'' Moseley 
has earned the deepest respect from all whom he has served during his 
illustrious career--most notably this Congress and a grateful Nation.
