# None
## `bccd439c44aed622826dcae0a7a47e56`
`Mr. DINGELL â€” 7 November 2007`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, today the House will vote on a conference 
report which includes the 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education Appropriations bill and the 2008 Military Construction and 
Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. I rise in support of this 
legislation because I believe that this legislation will fund programs 
families in the 15th District need and rely on--quality education, 
strong health care, jobs that are safe for its workers and secure 
retirement plans.

I am disappointed that the President has threatened to veto this 
legislation. I find it extremely irresponsible that he finds it 
acceptable to fund another $200 billion for the war in Iraq, but has 
issue with an increase of $9.8 billion for education, health and 
workforce programs and an increase of $4 billion for veterans' health 
care.

Specifically this legislation will:

Provide $37.2 billion to VA hospitals and clinics, and traumatic 
brain injury and post traumatic stress disorder research, over $2.6 
billion more than the President requested.

Invest $124.2 million into VA claims processors to address the 
backlog of 400,000 benefit claims.

Increase education funding to $60.7 billion, funding that will be 
dedicated to Title I grants to help low-income children, teacher 
quality and after school programs, IDEA grants and Pell grants.

Dedicate $12 billion to dislocated worker training, Job Corps, and 
worker protection efforts at the Mine Safety and Health Administration 
and the National Institutes for Occupational Safety and Health.

Through this legislation we will fund all these programs, while only 
spending enough money equal to the cost of 2 months in Iraq. Let me be 
clear that it is not the goal of this Congress to withhold funding for 
our troops; however, it is important that Congress give this 
administration the message that our domestic programs should not be 
forgotten at the expense of a poorly handled and mismanaged war in 
Iraq.

Madam Speaker, the annual appropriations process is never easy, but 
this Congress we have an opportunity to pass a good piece of 
legislation that is also fiscally responsible. As Members of Congress, 
it is our duty to our constituents to fund programs that will improve 
their quality of life, which is why I urge my colleagues to join me in 
supporting this legislation.
