---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `bcd22d85049ad006277030855c604558`
`Mr. MICA — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. MICA. Madam Speaker, first let me say to those who question our 
going into Iraq, I voted to go into Iraq and I would vote the same way 
again. We have found 300,000 mass graves to date, and standing right at 
this podium, the Iraqi leader told us that Saddam Hussein slaughtered 1 
million of his fellow citizens.

The question before us tonight, and what Congress is now considering, 
is a nonbinding resolution that makes two points. The first point is it 
praises our troops. The second point is it speaks against the 
President's decision to increase or surge our U.S. troop numbers in our 
current attempt to end the civil and terrorist conflict in Iraq.

Let me say at this point that I do not fault individual Members and 
their choice made tonight or tomorrow to support or oppose the 
arbitrary nonbinding resolution that is before us. I do, however, fault 
the failed Democrat leaders who crafted this resolution behind closed 
doors, written in the dark of night.

The people should know that this is not a true debate. In fact, this 
exercise is a 3-day politically hatched farce. In fact, this exercise 
is absent of any legitimate legislative process. It is also, in fact, 
vacant of the two options provided Congress under our Constitution: 
first, to declare war or, second, to appropriate funds for the conduct 
of war. In fact, this is a stealth resolution brought to the floor 
absolutely void of the democratic process; that our men and women are 
fighting, as we are here tonight, to preserve our freedoms at home and 
the rights at home and extend those rights to oppressed people abroad.

This is not Cuba. This isn't Venezuela. This is not North Korea or 
some Third World country. This is the Congress of the United States.

But let me congratulate the authors of what history will surely 
record as a very dark chapter in the conduct of the House leadership 
and the House of Representatives, leadership, in fact, entrusted to 
them by the American people.

Let me congratulate the authors on the clever wording of a resolution 
to praise our Armed Forces and at the same time undermine our Commander 
in Chief. Very clever.

I also want to congratulate the very clever timing of the floor 
discussion of this worthless measure that disregards the fact that 
American troops have already been deployed for this mission.

Congratulations are also in order for duping the public and the media 
into creating the illusion that Congress is really doing something 
about the conflict in Iraq.

And again congratulations on making people think that this is 
bipartisan support, that this is going to be bipartisan support for a 
resolution that, in fact, achieves nothing but the discrediting of a 
President of the United States in a time of war. So I also want to 
extend congratulations to the crafters of this illegitimately drafted 
nonbinding resolution. Your accomplishments will be lauded by Hamas, al 
Qaeda, touted by Al Jazeera, and highly praised by America and Bush 
haters throughout the world.

Ironically, I pulled this up. Google it yourself. This is tomorrow, 
8:17 Mecca time, Al Jazeera: ''Democrats Attack Bush War Policy,'' and 
the lead quote is from Speaker Pelosi.

Again, congratulations on your achievement.

Fortunately, though, folks, throughout history great Presidents have 
ignored Congress and have not wavered. George Washington was nearly 
recalled by Congress in the darkest hours of the American Revolution. 
He fought on for nearly 8 years to gain our independence and freedom. 
Abraham Lincoln endured untold criticism in Congress in his fight to 
ensure freedom for those once enslaved. Ronald Reagan never flinched in 
his quest to bring down the Iron Curtain and free millions. And George 
Bush will be remembered for freeing Iraq, giving women and the 
oppressed the right to vote, for conducting free elections, helping 
Iraq adopt a constitution, and combating terrorism and extremists.

The 110th Congress, however, will go down in history for adopting a 
nonbinding resolution. Think about it.

Yes, we all want our troops home. We all want our children to live in 
a world of peace. And this resolution will not help us achieve either 
of those goals.