---
---

# RECOGNIZING BRIGADIER GENERAL MARK ZIRKELBACH
## `bcd375fb714d91d73bc8dc357dbc22bd`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 3 February 2009`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
Deputy Adjutant General of the Iowa Army National Guard, Brigadier 
General Mark Zirkelbach, and to express gratitude for his many years of 
extraordinary service and leadership. General Zirkelbach is retiring 
after almost four decades of service with the National Guard. He 
enlisted in the Iowa Army National Guard in 1970, and has served as the 
Deputy Adjutant General of the Iowa Army Guard since August 2001. As 
Deputy Adjutant General, he's helped lead the Iowa Guard through the 
transformation from a strategic reserve to an operational force, and 
has overseen the deployment of thousands of Iowa National Guard members 
to combat zones like Iraq and Afghanistan. General Zirkelbach has been 
a strong advocate for Iowa National Guard members, and has no doubt 
made an incredible difference in the lives of many Iowa Guard members 
and their families during this challenging time. He's also served as an 
incredible resource for me and my staff. It's been my privilege to work 
with General Zirkelbach on issues of importance to the Iowa National 
Guard, including ensuring that soldiers who served in Iraq received the 
education benefits they deserved, and working to ensure that they 
receive the respite leave benefits that they are owed from the 
Pentagon. I thank General Zirkelbach for his invaluable service to the 
National Guard, the state of Iowa, and the United States, and wish him 
the best of luck in retirement.
