# HONORING THE SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE STAFF  SERGEANT TIMOTHY BOWLES
## `bcdbdc08e312d98dd784a86ce65d3e2c`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 18 March 2009`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor United States Air 
Force Staff Sergeant Timothy Bowles, who was killed in action with 
three fellow Airmen when his armored vehicle struck a buried IED near 
Kot, Afghanistan on March 15, 2009. He leaves behind father, his Louis, 
a Retired Airman, his mother, Lisa, and a sister, Heather.

Born in Anchorage, Alaska, Timothy grew up on Davis-Monthan Air Force 
Base and lived much of his life in Tucson, where his father was 
stationed. Timothy graduated from Tucson High School in 2002 and 
attended Pima Community College before joining the Air Force in 2007. 
Staff Sergeant Bowles was assigned to the 3rd Logistics Readiness 
Squadron at Elmendorf Air Force Base back in Alaska, where he was 
trained to be a fire truck mechanic. But on this day, he volunteered to 
stand in for a fellow airman who was not feeling well.

Timothy's Provincial Reconstruction Team was headed out to Jalalabad 
to check on a local schoolhouse when a pressure-plate IED ended his 
life. He was only twenty-four years old.

Born to and raised among the United States Air Force, Staff Sergeant 
Bowles knew well the costs of war. He volunteered for the nine-month 
deployment that took him to Bagram Air Base in November 2008. He 
volunteered for this dangerous duty. Tying humanitarian support to 
local security, Timothy and his PRT teammates stood between civilians 
and insurgents as Afghans seek to rebuild their long-oppressed country.

We remember Sergeant Bowles and offer our deepest condolences and 
sincerest prayers to his family. My words cannot effectively convey the 
feeling of great loss nor can they offer adequate consolation. However, 
it is my hope that in future days, his family may take some comfort in 
knowing that Timothy's legacy reaches beyond the desolate landscape of 
Afghanistan and into the hearts of a grateful nation.

This body and this country owe Timothy and his family a debt of 
gratitude and it is vital that we remember him and his fellow 
servicemembers who have paid the ultimate price.

Timothy is a hero both to his country and to his wonderful family. We 
salute his selfless service, sacrifice and bravery. May he not be 
forgotten and may his mission continue in the work of this body and the 
hearts of all Americans.
