---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `bd048900c05b572113c9ad0a545c11be`
`Mr. LEAHY — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the Coburn amendment, which would impose an 
additional layer of bureaucracy to the National Guard and Reserve's 
spending decisions, is unnecessary and burdensome. This proposal 
mandates a new component of review and assessment in a process where a 
high level of accountability already exists.

As is already required by law, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Reserve Affairs sends reports to Congress, including the four 
committees which oversee defense spending.

These reports explain, in detail, how the various Reserve component 
chiefs have determined to spend the funds provided.

The Guard plays a unique role in our country; they defend us here at 
home and, as has been the case all too often in recent years, they 
fight for us abroad. This special status directly effects the Guard's 
spending priorities, and in recent years they have focused on buying 
''dual use'' equipment that is good for both foreign war and for 
domestic missions.

Based on this reality, it is important that Congress maintain the 
Reserve component chief's level of influence so they can spend funds 
based on their most urgent requirements and unique needs.

Finally, creating statutory requirement for an additional ''thorough 
review,'' involving the Secretary of Defense and other officials, will 
likely delay access to these funds. At a time when our Guard is called 
upon more frequently at home and is being relied upon so heavily in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, to risk underresourcing them and not providing 
the full support of Congress is irresponsible and negligent.

I call upon my colleagues to support the Guard and Reserves and 
reject this amendment.

I ask for the yeas and nays.