---
---

# None
## `bd0a2a838362511c898b082312538d45`
`Ms. STABENOW — 24 April 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I thank my friend from New Mexico, who 
is doing such a wonderful job on the legislation that is in front of 
us. I wish to compliment everyone who is involved with this legislation 
for working so hard, including Senator Alexander and Senator Bingaman. 
This is a wonderful bill. So we congratulate them for that.















 Iraq Supplemental


I wish to speak this evening about the supplemental appropriations 
bill the Senate will vote on later this week. I also wish to rise with 
great concern and, frankly--I am not sure what the word is; 
''disappointment'' is not strong enough for how I feel about what the 
Vice President has said today about our leader, our great leader in the 
Senate, who has spoken so passionately and cares so deeply about the 
troops who are serving us overseas, their families who are here at 
home, who wants to make sure the strategy is right for them.

We all know--and our military experts have told us time and again--
that a military victory is not going to happen, that it has to be a 
political victory, a political strategy of the Iraqis stepping up and 
taking control and making the tough decisions they need to make to take 
control of their own security. We have heard that from many experts 
within the military and without. Yet today the Vice President was here, 
not far from this Chamber, unleashing his wrath, as only he seems to be 
able to, about our leader, calling him names and mischaracterizing his 
positions. That is extremely unfortunate because while the men and 
women are serving us right now in Iraq, over there doing their best to 
focus on the mission, they expect us to be at home focusing on the 
strategy, the resources, and the equipment they need.

I had an opportunity to talk to a young man not long ago who had come 
home from Iraq. I asked him how he felt about the debate going on about 
the strategy, the debate we were having in the Senate and the House. He 
said, frankly, he would expect us to be doing that because that is our 
job. That is our job. They are doing their job. As my husband, who was 
in the Air Force and Air National Guard, reminds me continually, their 
job is to implement the mission. They are doing it. Our job is to get 
it right, to have the right strategy, and to back them up and give them 
the resources they need.

The name calling coming from the Vice President is not going to get 
the job done. What is going to get the job done is our ability to work 
together and look at the facts, not some stubborn sense of 
unwillingness to change or to do more of the same which, unfortunately, 
is what is happening now with this surge. It is more of the same. 
Instead of doing that, we need to be joining together to say: Let's 
look at the reality of what is going on on the ground. More and more 
Americans and Iraqis are being killed every day. Let's look at the 
reality of what we need to do to be successful, to bring our troops 
home safely, to address the success we all would like to see happen in 
terms of a democracy that works, the Iraqi Government being able to 
step up and to govern their country, which is an incredibly difficult 
and complicated thing to do, obviously.

I find it very disappointing. I work with our leader, as we all do 
every day. There is no one who has spent more time thinking and 
focusing and discussing and listening on these issues around the war 
than he has--no one who is more thoughtful or more caring, no one who 
is more concerned about our veterans coming home.

We welcome, certainly, the Vice President coming and meeting with us 
and joining in the discussion. But I certainly hope we are not going to 
see more of what we saw today. It was an effort to attack a great 
leader and, essentially, instead of moving the ball forward, make it 
more difficult for us to do what we need to do to come together.

On this particular bill, the supplemental appropriations bill, I 
certainly hope the President will sign this legislation, will 
reconsider the position that has been taken and sign this legislation. 
We are going to be sending a bill to the President that will fund the 
troops--in fact, it adds dollars to do that--as well as veterans, as 
well as addressing a number of other critical issues. The question 
before the President will be, Will he sign this bill? We are not trying 
to play games. We are sending him an emergency supplemental for the war 
and for other critical American needs--our communities, our families' 
needs, just as we do every year in an appropriations bill, in a 
supplemental. The question is whether the President will step up and do 
his duty and sign this bill so that those dollars can get to the 
troops.

This legislation represents the best opportunity for us to change the 
course in Iraq as well as protect our troops and our veterans and to 
give them what they need now. Unfortunately, the President has put our 
troops in the middle of an endless Iraqi civil war. We know this to be 
true. People in my great State know this is true.

Unfortunately, we find ourselves in a situation where our troops are 
in an endless civil war. The American people are paying a huge price 
for this war, most importantly, in lives, not only family members lost 
but people coming home with permanent disabilities, with head injuries, 
with mental health problems. There is a huge price being paid by 
Americans for what is occurring and has been occurring.

We are also paying a huge price in dollars, $10 billion a month, and 
then we look at the fact that we could fund a program to cover every 
child with health care in America for $10 billion a year. We know while 
lives are the most important issue, resources for Americans to address 
our needs at home is also a critical issue.

We also know we are paying a huge price as it relates to our own 
security interests. The majority of Americans, a bipartisan majority in 
Congress, military experts, and the Iraq Study Group believe this war 
cannot be won militarily and that the current path is not sustainable. 
The supplemental appropriations bill recognizes it is long past time to 
change course. The American people know that. That is really what last 
November was about. People want a change. They know this isn't working. 
It is not sustainable. They expect us to step up together and make that 
change.

This bill fully funds our troops. We are passing a bill agreed to by 
the House and Senate that fully funds our troops and provides a plan to 
responsibly end the war and bring them home safely. I don't know what 
more we could ask of the proposal. We are providing the resources and 
also putting in place a responsible way to provide benchmarks and 
measurements and bring a responsible end to the war.

Our bill holds the Iraqis accountable for securing their own Nation 
and forging political reconciliation. We know more of the same--more 
surges, more efforts that have been tried and tried time after time--is 
not working. I don't believe they can work. But what can work is 
holding the Iraqis accountable for securing their own nation and making 
the tough decisions that one has to make when they want to have a 
democracy. It is not easy. We know that. They are in a very difficult 
situation. But it is their country, and they


need to step up and make those decisions and bring all parties together 
and find some way to live together.

Our bill ensures our troops are combat ready before being deployed to 
Iraq. I can't imagine that there is one individual in the armed 
services or one mom or dad or brother or sister or son or daughter of a 
combat troop that would not want us, and doesn't expect us already, to 
be making sure that our troops are combat ready before being deployed.

It provides them with all the resources needed on the battlefield and 
when they return. We are very committed and, in fact, I am very proud 
of the fact that in our budget resolution passed a few weeks ago, for 
the first time we meet the dollars needed for veterans health care and 
other critical veterans services identified by the veterans 
organizations themselves. For the first time ever, we put forth the 
dollars that are needed when our troops are coming home. A Presidential 
veto will deny our troops the resources and the strategy they need and 
send exactly the wrong message to the Iraqi political leaders. We hope 
the President will join us in giving our troops the resources and 
strategy they need and deserve. That is what this bill is about.


After more than 4 years of a failed policy, it is time for this 
Nation to change course and Iraq to take responsibility for its own 
future.

This is a good bill we will have before us. Overall, it provides more 
than $100 billion for the Department of Defense, primarily for 
continued military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. It includes a $1 
billion increase for the National Guard and Reserves for equipment 
desperately needed and $1.1 billion for military housing. It provides 
$3 billion for the purchase of mine-resistant, ambush-protected 
vehicles, vehicles designed to withstand roadside bombs. Every day we 
pick up the paper and see where more lives have been lost, injuries 
have been sustained as a result of roadside bombs. It contains more 
than $5 billion to ensure that returning troops and veterans receive 
the health care they have earned with their service so that we don't 
ever have to have another Walter Reed incident.

It has $6.9 billion for the victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita as 
well. We know when we are doing an emergency supplemental, just as in 
every other year when our colleagues were in the majority, as well as 
when we are in the majority, there are a number of emergency needs for 
the country.

One thing in the supplemental has been funding the troops. We have 
added funding for our veterans and also understand there are some 
critical needs at home, critical needs that Americans have. Certainly, 
we all know the resources and the focus on those families who were hit 
by the hurricanes have been shamefully slow in going to that region to 
rebuild American communities, American homes, to support American 
families. Our bill does that.

It provides emergency funding also for the Children's Health 
Insurance Program because we have a number of places in the country 
where the resources are running out, and we want to make sure children 
can continue to get health care. That is an emergency at home.

Ask any family who is worried about whether their children are going 
to get sick tonight, say a little prayer: Please God, don't let the 
kids get sick because what are we going to do. Our bill addresses 
children's health care emergency funding.

It also includes homeland security investments totaling $2.25 billion 
for port security and mass transit security, for explosives detection 
equipment at airports, and for several initiatives in the 9/11 bill 
that recently passed the Senate. I am very proud of the fact that our 
new majority placed a priority on passing the 9/11 Commission 
recommendations. It was long overdue, but it was a priority for us in 
the first few weeks of our new majority, and we did it. Now we have the 
resources that go with that. It is not enough to pass the 
recommendations. We have to make sure the resources are there to keep 
us safe at home.

So, yes, this is a supplemental bill to support our troops abroad, to 
support their efforts while they are in theater in combat, but we also 
know we have folks on the front lines at home, our police officers and 
firefighters and others, and security needs here. We address that.

We also know there have been a group of folks waiting for way too 
long for some disaster assistance related to agriculture, including my 
home State of Michigan where apple and cherry growers have been 
waiting. In this legislation, $3.5 billion is provided to help relieve 
the enormous pressure on farmers and ranchers as a result of severe 
drought and agricultural disasters. Again, this is about helping people 
at home, putting Americans first when we know there is a disaster. 
Whether it is Hurricane Katrina or whether it is cherry growers in 
northern Michigan, our job is to also focus on our people here and 
their emergency needs.

The conference agreement also includes emergency funding for forest 
firefighting, low-income home energy assistance, and pandemic flu 
preparations, which we should all be concerned about--again, critical 
needs for Americans, American families.

Finally, there are other items in this bill that are good for workers 
and small business. The bill has an increase in the minimum wage to 
$7.25 an hour, giving hard-working Americans a much deserved raise 
after 10 years--10 years. It provides almost $5 billion in tax cuts for 
small businesses as well. We know the majority of jobs come from small 
business. This supports their efforts as well.

So I would say to President Bush: Sign this bill. Sign this bill. 
This is a bill which funds our troops, which keeps our commitments to 
our veterans, and which addresses other American priorities for our 
communities and our families.

Mr. President, if you do, we will change course in Iraq, give our 
troops the equipment they need, the health care they deserve, and 
provide much needed investments here at home in America.

President Bush, if you veto this bill, you are denying funds to the 
troops in the field and going against the wishes of the majority of the 
American people.

It is time for the administration to stop saying no to troops and no 
to the American people. We need the President to say yes to working 
with us, to support our troops and what they need, which this 
legislation does, to support the American people, American families, 
and critical emergency needs here at home, and to put in place a 
strategy for success--a real strategy for success--by focusing on 
efforts that empower and send a message to the Iraqi Government to step 
up. While we are willing to support them, we will not continue to send 
our brave men and women into the middle of a civil war day after day 
after day and continually say it is OK, everything is going great. It 
is not going great.

It is time for a new strategy. We have put forward a strategy in a 
very responsible way in this legislation, along with meeting our 
obligations and responsibilities to our troops, our veterans, their 
families, and to America as a whole.

I hope when President Bush reads this bill--and I hope he will--I 
hope he will look at what is in here with an open mind, and agree with 
us that this is a bill which makes sense for America at home and 
abroad.

Thank you, Mr. President.