# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `bd0fe4f842d2552ef83fd3ed2cbd4532`
`Mrs. LOWEY â€” 9 July 2009`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, I'm pleased to present H.R. 3081, the fiscal year 2010 
appropriations bill for the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
and Related Programs. I am deeply appreciative to my ranking member, 
Kay Granger, for her key role in drafting this bill. This reflects our 
bipartisan priorities and is a better product as a result of our 
collaboration.

After all the hard work that Ms. Granger put into this bill, I am 
deeply saddened that she's unable to be on the House floor with us 
today to see the passage of our bipartisan product. I would like to 
extend my heartfelt thanks to my friend, Ms. Granger, and I know all of 
us wish for her a speedy recovery. Her presence is missed today on the 
floor, but I know her thoughts are with us, and I look forward to 
continuing to work closely with her as we move forward with the bill.

The bill has also benefited from the input of our very informed and 
engaged subcommittee members. The bill totals $48.843 billion, $3.2 
billion below the request and $1.2 billion below the fiscal year 2009 
enacted level, including supplemental appropriations.

The bill provides an upfront and transparent accounting of the 
resources needed to fund our foreign policy and national security 
interests to end the reliance on supplemental appropriations to fund 
anticipated needs.

Let there be no doubt, this bill, which funds the U.S.'s diplomatic 
and development priorities, is a cornerstone of U.S. national security. 
It includes $4.7 billion for assistance to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and 
Iraq to help stabilize, strengthen, and rebuild these critical 
countries.

In conjunction with funding in the 2009 supplemental, the bill fully 
funds the U.S. commitments to our allies and partners in the Middle 
East, including a total of $2.775 billion in FMF pursuant to the MOU 
between the United States and our ally Israel and our commitments to 
Egypt and Jordan.

The bill provides $987 million to continue support for 
counternarcotics and alternate development programs in Mexico, Central 
America, the Caribbean Basin, and Colombia and Peru.

The bill continues the congressional commitment to increasing the 
capacity of our civilian agencies to carry out diplomatic and 
development missions and provides resources to hire, train, support, 
and provide security for 1,000 new Department of State personnel and 
300 new USAID personnel.

H.R. 3081 provides $7.6 billion for global activities, including $5.7 
billion for global HIV/AIDS, which is $150 million above the 
President's request. Not less than $750 million will support the Global 
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and the bill includes 
$648 million for voluntary family planning services in the developing 
world, of which $60 million is for the United Nations Population Fund.

Addressing pandemics and other health concerns overseas before they 
reach our shores is one of the best investments the United States can 
make to protect American citizens while saving lives overseas. To this 
end, the bill provides $75 million to address pandemic preparedness and 
response, in addition to $50 million in the supplemental appropriations 
act of 2009.

Now, while I continue to be personally committed to permanently 
repealing the global gag rule, in the interest of bipartisan 
cooperation, the bill does not change any provisions of law that 
restrict funding for abortion or otherwise condition family planning 
assistance.

The bill increases funding for key long-term development priorities, 
including $1.2 billion to improve access to quality basic and higher 
education and provide alternatives to madrassas where youth are often 
exposed to extremism; $1 billion for food security and agricultural 
development to respond to the global food crisis; over $1.2 billion in 
bilateral and multilateral assistance for clean energy, biodiversity 
and climate change initiatives; and $310 million to expand access to 
safe water and sanitation.

It includes $2.4 billion in refugee and disaster assistance to meet 
growing humanitarian needs, including in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

The bill also provides $450 million for the Peace Corps to jump-start 
the President's pledge to increase the number of volunteers.

Finally, oversight is a bipartisan priority, and in order to improve 
accountability, the bill provides a total of $146.5 million for the 
activities of the Inspectors General of the Department of State and 
USAID, as well as for the


Special Inspectors General for Iraq and Afghanistan Reconstruction.

I want to take a moment to thank all of the staff that have worked so 
hard on this bill, especially Nisha Desai, our clerk, and her team: 
Craig Higgins, Steve Marchese, Michele Sumilas, Celia Alvarado, 
Courtney Dunn. I also want to thank Ann Vaughan, Jennie Munoz, and 
Elizabeth Stanley on my staff for their work.

And I would also like to thank our hardworking minority staff, 
including Ann Marie Chotvacs, the minority clerk, and Alice Hogans, 
Mike Ringler, Jason Small, and Rachel Carter for all their work.

Mr. Chairman, the bipartisan foreign assistance package before you 
preserves our Nation's interests. I urge my colleagues to give this 
bill our bipartisan support.

I reserve the balance of my time.