# RECOGNIZING THE TREMENDOUS SERVICE THAT MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES HAVE  GIVEN TO THE NATION
## `bd14f335c953036cb57b27f81ab139d0`
`Mr. WALBERG — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, I rise with my colleague from Vermont to 
voice strong support for H. Res. 1020, which expresses the commitment 
of this Congress to our injured heroes, ensures they're receiving the 
highest quality of health care available and encourages all Americans 
to show support and appreciation for our veterans.

Today, I want to take time to thank all of the servicemen and -women 
and their families for their sacrifices. I know the pride of having a 
son serve in the United States military, and my wife, Sue, and I pray 
every day for the safety of our fighting men and women abroad and here 
at home.

When our soldiers go into battle, we can all agree that they deserve 
the best training, equipment, and necessary resources to accomplish 
their mission. Congress has an obligation to care for America's wounded 
heroes when they return home from the battlefield. I believe the least 
we can do is to provide the highest quality medical care to the brave 
men and women of our Armed Forces when they're injured defending the 
freedoms that we enjoy.

Right now, we have more wounded warriors returning home than ever 
before because of improved medical technology and advanced equipment to 
transport our sick and wounded. The thousands of men and women serving 
in the military who have been wounded serving in Iraq and Afghanistan 
and other wars deserve the best treatment and care available.

I look forward to working with my colleagues in a nonpartisan manner 
to make sure Congress delivers on our responsibility. I urge my 
colleagues to support H. Res. 1020 and support our wounded warriors.