---
---

# DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007
## `bd33b6a5edc2b6df2cb938ea806e4d11`
`Ms. PELOSI — 22 March 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and his 
leadership in bringing this very important legislation to the floor.

This is a happy day indeed. It is an historic day. It is a day when 
the people of the District of Columbia will finally have their voices 
heard and represented.

This is a personal joy for me as well, because when I was born all 
those many years ago, my father served in the Congress, and he became 
the Chair of the District of Columbia Appropriations Subcommittee. As 
such, that was a time when there was no Mayor, no home rule, no 
anything; that committee practically ran the District of Columbia. My 
father was a strong advocate for home rule for the District, and, of 
course, we had hoped eventually, and still do, statehood.

It took a long time, but at last today we will get a vote once again 
for Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton. She has really been a champion 
for the District. Even without the full vote, her impact is felt here, 
but it is the right thing to do for her to have the vote.

Congressman Davis, as Chairman Davis and now as ranking member, has 
always been a strong advocate for this, as has Henry Waxman, the Chair 
of the Government Reform Committee, and you, Mr. Chairman, from the 
standpoint of the Judiciary Committee.

How impressive it was to see the Iraqi vets, these young people, 
coming back from the Iraq war, and those serving in Afghanistan, where 
they were willing to make any sacrifice for our country. Their courage 
and patriotism is honored by all of us. They came and pled to us for 
the District of Columbia to have the vote. They live here, they went to 
war from here, they wanted to come home to the fullness of democracy 
for the District of Columbia.

Today's vote affirms an enduring principle of our democracy, the 
right to be heard and represented. They fought for that in Iraq. They 
should have it here in the District.

For more than 200 years, the people of the District of Columbia have 
been denied full representation. This carefully crafted, bipartisan 
legislation corrects a serious flaw in our democracy. America is at its 
best honoring the cause of freedom and justice when all voices are 
fully represented.

The effort to politicize the issue of fundamental fairness 
disrespects the ideals of this Nation and the people of the District of 
Columbia. We must honor our democracy. House Democrats will not rest 
until full representation in the House is granted to the District of 
Columbia.

This is an important day on which I congratulate Congresswoman 
Eleanor Holmes Norton and the people of the District of Columbia for 
having this right come due.