# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007-- MOTION TO PROCEED
## `bd44426e79cfaca46a8cc1a386dbe5f2`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 12 June 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I am pleased to be here supporting a piece 
of legislation which I think advances this country's energy interests. 
I am a member of the Senate Energy Committee. I have worked with 
Senator Bingaman and Senator Domenici not only on the previous Energy 
bill in 2005 but on this Energy bill, and I think this is a good bill. 
We are going to improve it some on the floor of the Senate, but it came 
out of the Energy


Committee as a bipartisan bill and one I think will improve the energy 
policy in this country.

Energy is a very important policy. We don't think about it much. I 
know most all of us get up in the morning and we just flick a switch 
someplace in our house. That switch turns on lights and we turn on the 
television set, it turns on all the things we use all day. While we are 
sleeping, the air-conditioner is running. We have all these 
conveniences, and we do not necessarily understand that all of it comes 
from somewhere beyond a switch. So energy has been pretty easy for this 
country. Now we are running into some interesting questions and 
challenges. We have to develop a more thoughtful, more sensible energy 
policy for the long-term future.

There is an airplane which is now parked in a museum. I believe it 
was tail No. 27,000, an old 707 that used to be Air Force One. It was 
the Air Force One that flew President Reagan around, and others. It was 
the Air Force One that was in Dallas, TX, in fact, the day John F. 
Kennedy was assassinated. One of its last trips before it was retired 
to a museum was a trip to Asia. I was a member of that delegation, 
going to meet with the President of China and others.

In a cabin on that little old airplane flying over the Pacific one 
night, about 10 or 11 o'clock at night, one of our Senate colleagues, 
John Glenn, was sitting there with us. I was peppering John Glenn with 
questions about his circling the Earth as an astronaut back 40 years 
prior to that time. I was a young kid and I had been listening to the 
radio that day, and I listened to this account of this astronaut 
circling the Earth. The whole world was focused on what this astronaut, 
up alone in Friendship 7, a tiny little capsule, was doing.

I asked him a lot of questions about it that evening. I had the 
opportunity as a new Member of the Senate with my colleague John Glenn 
to pepper him with a lot of questions. One of my questions was this. I 
said: My understanding back then was that the city of Perth, Australia, 
when you were orbiting the Earth that night, turned on every light in 
the city as a signal to the astronaut flying alone orbiting the Earth. 
Do you remember the ability to look down and see the lights from Perth, 
Australia?

He said: I do, I do. I remember this brilliant light coming up from 
Perth, Australia, where all the citizens decided to shine up a light to 
this astronaut flying alone on Friendship 7.

The only evidence of life on Earth as he orbited the dark side of the 
Earth was energy, light--human beings turning on a light switch and 
lighting a city to light the way for an astronaut orbiting the Earth.

Energy is a significant part of our lives every single day and 
virtually in every way. As I said, we take it pretty much for granted.

Let me talk about the challenges, if I might. One of the significant 
challenges is oil. We have this big old planet of ours. We have roughly 
6.5 billion neighbors on this planet. We circle the Sun. We have this 
prodigious need for oil, so we stick straws in the earth, called 
drilling rigs, and suck oil out of the earth. We suck about 84 million 
barrels of oil a day out of this planet of ours--84 million barrels a 
day we suck out of this earth.

We use 21 million barrels in this country alone. In this little patch 
of ground called the United States of America, we have built an 
unbelievable economy, dramatically improved the standard of living over 
a long period of time, and we have an unending thirst for oil. So one-
fourth of all of the oil used on this planet is used in this country, 
this place on the globe.

Unfortunately, a substantial amount of the oil is under the sands of 
the Middle East and in unstable parts of the world. Here is what 
happens. When we import oil, here is what we use the oil for: 67 
percent is used for transportation. So nearly 70 percent of the oil we 
use in this country is used in the vehicle fleet or for transportation. 
One of the things we are discussing here in the Energy bill is this 
issue of trying to make these vehicles more efficient. If we use 70 
percent of the oil in this country for transportation and we have had 
very little change in efficiency of vehicles, then the question should 
be and is, Should not we make vehicles more efficient?

Here is an example. This is a chart you can't see particularly well: 
Auto Fuel Efficiency Versus Performance. Do you see what has happened 
on the blue line, performance--zero to 60 in a nanosecond? Increased 
performance, more power, more speed. What has happened with respect to 
miles per gallon? Just like that, right flat across.

Part of that is the consumer. The consumer wants to buy big, heavy 
cars, fast cars. I understand that. In fact, here is a survey. I was 
very surprised. CNW Research pointed out that overall fuel economy--
this is a couple of years ago--is No. 12 in concern by consumers. I am 
sure it has changed now. But cupholders and sound systems ranked above 
the issue of overall fuel economy. I expect that is not the case now 
when you are driving up to the gas pump and in some vehicles putting in 
$40, $50, $60 or $70 worth of gasoline into that vehicle. So perhaps 
that has changed.

But this legislation does a lot of things with respect to energy. It 
requires an improvement in the efficiency of vehicles. I know 
automobile companies came here last week. I had a chance to talk to the 
CEOs of the three big U.S. auto companies. I know they are taking the 
same position they have always taken--not now, not us, not today.

The fact is, we must, it seems to me, insist that our vehicle fleet 
be more efficient. Because nearly 70 percent of the oil we use in this 
country is being used in our vehicles, the only way we are going to try 
to extract ourselves from being addicted to foreign oil is to begin to 
make changes in a range of areas, and that includes making cars more 
efficient. That means a higher mileage per gallon standard.

We have a circumstance, as I indicated, where a substantial part of 
the oil is put in one place on this planet and the dramatic need for 
oil is in another place. Much of where we get our oil is in very 
troubled parts of the world. We could, one day, wake up with terrorists 
attacking a refinery somewhere and a shutoff of the oil to this country 
from foreign sources, and this country would be flat on its back. This 
country would have its economy in tatters. That is why we need to be 
much less dependent, we need to find a way to be independent of the 
need for oil from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, Iran, Iraq, Venezuela--all 
the places in the world that are unstable, where we have a great 
reliance on oil. That is at least part of what this bill is about.

I am going to talk about several other things as well, but I, along 
with my colleague, Senator Larry Craig, a Republican--I am a Democrat--
we joined in introducing something called the SAFE Energy Act, Securing 
America's Future Energy. The Energy Security Leadership Council is a 
group of really interesting people including some CEOs of major 
corporations and flag officers in the U.S. military. They studied these 
issues for several years and put together a plan.

That plan is recommendations to the Nation on Reducing Oil 
Dependence; trying to make this economy of ours less oil intensive.

I introduced a piece of legislation with Senator Craig that 
implements most all of these recommendations. I would commend it to my 
colleagues because I think it makes a lot of sense. It talks about 
expanding the supply of energy, especially renewable energy; also talks 
about finding additional supplies. We believe we ought to be able to 
explore and drill more in expanded areas, particularly in the Gulf of 
Mexico, because there are substantial reserves of oil and gas in the 
Gulf of Mexico that are attainable without ruining anybody's view or 
creating other problems.

We believe that in addition to renewable energy and the production of 
renewable energy, all of the biofuels are necessary. We believe that 
CAFE standards, or at least automobile efficiency standards, are 
necessary as well. This piece of legislation brought to the floor of 
the Senate includes all of them.

Let me continue to talk about oil for a moment and say that when I 
was a little boy, I remember they drilled one oil well near my hometown 
in southwestern North Dakota. I lived in a town of 300 people. There 
wasn't a lot to do, obviously, in a town of 300 people.

So when they brought in a drilling rig and constructed a drilling rig 
and


started to drill for oil about 3 miles from town, I will never forget 
as a little boy going out there in the evenings in my parent's car. We 
saw all these lights on the oil rig at night. We sat there and looked 
at it. That was entertainment.

We did that night after night. We figured at some point they were 
going to strike oil. We didn't want to be too close to the rig, because 
the movies showed that when you strike oil, you get a gusher.

But we watched. We would drive out there and park, the whole town 
would go out there and park. We would watch that oil well. Nothing was 
happening, of course, nothing you could see. We saw the lights. That 
was a whole lot more than was going on in town.

Well, it turns out it was a dry well; never drilled another one. But 
that was my experience. As a young boy, my father also managed a 
gasoline station. So I pumped a lot of gas as a young boy. Some say 
that my occupation hasn't changed so much being in the Senate, but I 
contest that, of course.

My point is this: Oil is central to our lives and will remain central 
to our lives, but we need to find a way to reduce our dependence on the 
sources of oil that come from very troubled parts of the world.

In North Dakota, for example, in western North Dakota, we now have 
what is called the Bakken Shale, which could, we hope--the U.S. 
Geological Survey will determine this--but it could contain dramatic 
amounts of recoverable oil.

Incidentally, I was in western North Dakota visiting with Marathon 
Oil that is now drilling. It is unbelievable what they are doing. They 
drill 2 miles down--2 miles down--then take a giant bend and drill 2 
miles out. One drilling rig. They go down 2 miles and then bend it and 
then drill 2 miles out. It is unbelievable technology.

We hope there is additional production here in this country. That is 
one way to be less dependent on foreign sources of oil. We can take a 
look at where you can get additional oil. I mentioned the Gulf of 
Mexico is a substantial opportunity for us as well. But there are a lot 
of things for us to do and do well, if we are going to be less 
dependent on foreign sources of oil, also, if we are going to have an 
energy policy that has much more credibility than our current policy.

Now, the Congress passed what was called the Energy Policy Act of 
2005. We did a number of things there. I was one of the Members of the 
Congress who, at that time and since that time, one of I guess four or 
five of us in the Senate who tried to open up what is called Lease 181 
in the Gulf of Mexico. We succeeded in doing that. It is a smaller 
tract than we had hoped, but that also will contribute to the 
production of additional energy here at home.

Some say our energy strategy for the future must be ''digging and 
drilling.'' I call that yesterday forever, digging and drilling. Yes, 
we are going to dig and, yes, we are going to drill. But if that is all 
we do, we lose. Everything we use in this country every day needs to be 
more efficient. Our refrigerators, our air conditioners, our vacuums, 
everything needs to be more efficient. That is No. 1.

We have had very big debates on strange-named things such as SEER 
standards. I mean how many people have heard of SEER 13 standards for 
air conditioners. But it makes a big difference in the number of 
powerplants you have to build in this country based on the standards 
for efficiency for all the things we use with respect to appliances.

In addition to all that, we at the same time have to rely on other 
sources and other types of energy; wind energy as an example. Well, my 
colleague from Tennessee apparently does not like wind energy. God 
bless him. He has a right not to like wind energy.

It seems to me it makes a lot of sense with a turbine, the much more 
improved turbines and technologically capable turbines, to extract the 
energy from the wind and turn it into electricity. Yes, it is an 
intermittent source of electricity because you do not produce it when 
the wind is not blowing. But in some States, my State in particular, 
which is ranked by the Department of Energy as having the largest wind 
energy potential, taking energy from the wind and producing electricity 
with that energy makes a lot of sense.

We have an exciting experiment going on in North Dakota that I have 
been involved in: taking energy from the wind through a wind turbine, 
turning that energy through a turbine into electricity, using 
electricity through the process of electrolysis to separate hydrogen 
from water. You use an intermittent energy source to produce hydrogen 
and store the hydrogen. That is pretty unbelievable. Yet we can do 
that. We can do that, and it is going make us less dependent on foreign 
sources of energy.


Now one of the proposals that will be offered by my colleague, 
Senator Bingaman, which I intend to be here and support, and I believe 
several have spoken in opposition to it, is what is called a renewable 
portfolio standard. Not a very sexy name, in fact we should rename it, 
renewable energy standard of some type.

But it is simply this: With respect to electricity that we are 
creating in this country, 15 percent of that electricity should come 
from renewable sources. Establishing a national standard, a goal, what 
is it we want to meet? Where do we want to go? An old saying: If you 
don't care where you are, you will never be lost.

Well, I mean, if we do not care where we are, we will never have a 
standard that we will miss. But how about ascribing a standard for this 
country that forces us to reach a little bit and says that, for every 
kilowatt hour of electricity we are going to use, 15 percent of what we 
produce is going to come from renewable sources of energy.

Once again, it relieves and begins to withdraw our heavy dependence 
on foreign sources of oil because a substantial amount of our 
electricity now comes from fossil fuels, from natural gas and coal and 
so on.

Now, the issue of the renewable portfolio standard, I understand, is 
going to be controversial because some do not want the Federal 
Government to be involved in requiring something such as this. But, 
frankly, I don't think we have much choice. The other issue that will 
be involved in with this bill, which I support, is a renewable fuels 
standard. That renewable fuels standard is one that calls for 36 
billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2022. Now, I helped write the 
last renewable fuel standard. It was the first one we ever established. 
It was 7/1/2/ billion gallons by 2012.

We are going to be at 10 billion gallons, exceeding that standard in 
a year or two. We believe we should aspire to achieve much more; a 
renewable fuels standard, using the biofuels; yes, the production of 
ethanol; growing energy in our farm fields on a renewable basis, you 
can do that year after year; the ethanol that can come from cellulose 
that I believe has great capability in our future. All of that is good 
for this country.

It is good for our farmers, good for our consumers, it is good for 
beginning to reduce our dependence on foreign sources of oil. Now, we 
have a lot of issues we are going to be discussing, some controversial, 
some perhaps not, but my hope is that in the coming week and a half or 
so we can finish this Energy bill.

I wish to show a couple of charts again. First of all, the amount of 
oil we use in this country. Those are million barrels per day. I 
mentioned we suck 84 million barrels of oil out of this little planet 
of ours. Look at what we use in the United States. Our population uses 
one-fourth of all the oil that is taken out of this planet every single 
day.

I mean, that is an oil intensity for our economy that, in my 
judgment, needs to be changed. Then, finally, let me say again, if 70 
percent of that oil, nearly 70 percent is used in that vehicle fleet. 
If in that vehicle fleet we have seen all those improvements in 
acceleration, for example, and no improvement with respect to miles per 
gallon, then we better figure out how we address this in a different 
way.

One other item I am going to talk about for a moment is something 
called SPR. One of the problems with this life is there are so many 
acronyms and so many shorthand names for things, the Strategic 
Petroleum Reserve. We are doing something that makes a lot of sense to 
me. We are taking oil and sticking it underground and saving it for a 
time when we might need it, a security reserve of oil. The Strategic 
Petroleum Reserves makes sense to me. In fact, we increased the


amount of that SPR authorization in the 2005 Energy Policy Act. But 
with respect to our original goal, we are 97 percent there--97 percent. 
I do not think it makes any sense at this point to increase it, despite 
the authorization, I do not think it makes any sense, when the price of 
oil is where it is, very high--the price of gasoline is extraordinary--
I do not think it makes sense to be taking any oil out of the supply 
chain and sticking it underground.

Yet our Government continues to do that. I know we have not been 
purchasing oil at this point. They suspended that through the summer 
driving season. But we are still taking about 8 or 9 million barrels of 
oil and putting it in SPR as part of the payment for royalties in kind. 
I do not support that either.

The President is asking for a near doubling of SPR in the next 
appropriations cycle. I am not going to support that. I am going to 
write the bill. I will be writing the bill as chairman of the 
appropriations subcommittee that funds that. I am not going to increase 
that because I think at a time when gas prices are going through the 
roof, the last thing we ought to do is take oil out of the supply, 
because all that does is put upward pressure on gas prices. So I 
believe that is another thing we might wish to consider in this 
discussion.

Finally, the issue of energy is one that I know consumes perhaps less 
attention from time to time than others, because we take it for 
granted. We turn the light switch on, we get in our car, we do all 
these things, all of it powered as a part of our energy need, and we do 
not think much about it. But if, God forbid, somehow all of it were 
turned off, and we had an example a few years ago, I think we were out 
of energy in the capital region for 5 or 6 days, then all of a sudden 
we understood what energy means to our daily lives.


If ever we would see gas lines around the block again, we would 
understand what this addiction to oil means for our daily lives. Now, I 
said earlier that if our entire approach with respect to energy is 
digging and drilling, that is yesterday forever. I do not mean we will 
not continue to use fossil fuels, I believe we will. Fossil fuels will 
be a significant part of our future.

That means oil, coal, and natural gas. I am going to spend a lot of 
time and money as chairman of the appropriations subcommittee dealing 
with this issue of clean power and clean coal technology because we 
have to be able to continue to use that resource. But it is also the 
case that we have so much more to do. Because for decades we have been 
told that you cannot do renewables, renewables are a pat-on-the-head 
sort of thing. If you are talking about renewables, good for you, God 
bless you, but you ought to go to a library someplace and visit with 
your two or three friends about these things; it does not matter to 
America's future. That is total nonsense.

Renewable energy is very important for this country. It is long past 
the time that we get about the business of dealing with it. Yes, it is 
hydrogen and fuel cells, which I feel very strongly about. It is wind 
and solar. It is geothermal. It is a wide range of issues dealing with 
renewable energy that I believe will contribute to this country's 
energy security. I believe it will give us a much better and a much 
stronger energy policy.

I see my colleague from Idaho is here. As I indicated earlier, he and 
I have introduced a piece of legislation that a fair part is included 
in the bill that was reported out of the Energy Committee. I am also on 
the Commerce Committee, which has reported a portion of this bill as 
well.

I believe we need do a lot of things well in order to make this 
country less dangerously dependent, as we now are, on foreign sources 
of energy. That is our goal.

I believe our plan does that. I believe the bill that is brought to 
us from the Energy, Commerce, EPW, and Foreign Relations Committees 
advances this country's interest.

My hope is, in the coming week or two, perhaps a week and a half, as 
this is being considered, we can improve the bill even more.

I yield the floor.