---
---

# FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `bd50618a83000fa163e2164fa3ab23d7`
`Mr. DORGAN — 8 May 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I wish to make a point. I don't know yet 
if there is a markup this afternoon of the Appropriations full 
committee. If there is, I am intending to offer a couple amendments to 
that markup. I wish to describe one amendment that I plan to offer, and 
that relates to dealing with oil and gas prices.

The price of oil is way beyond that which is justifiable by simple 
supply and demand conditions. It is bouncing around like a yo-yo up 
around $120 and as much as $124 a barrel of oil. There is no 
justification in the supply and demand of oil for that price. It is 
damaging to the economy, and it hurts a series of industries in this 
country. The airline industry and trucking industry are just two 
examples. It hurts every American as they pull up to the gas pump to 
figure out where they are going to get the money to pay for the 
gasoline price.

What is happening? At the moment, a couple of things are happening.

One, we have an unbelievable bubble of speculation in the futures 
market. I have people say to me: That is not true. It is true. It is 
hard to justify the current price of oil given the physical elements of 
the market today. What we have is people entering the commodities 
futures market that have no interest in buying oil. They buy oil and 
sell it. They never take possession of it. They buy what they will 
never get from people who never had it. They are making money on both 
sides of the transaction because they are waging. To put it plainly, 
they are gambling. That is speculation. We have an orgy of speculation 
on the futures market.

We had people testify in the Senate and House that it adds $20 to $30 
to a barrel of oil. Should we sit back and watch a bubble develop and 
say, ''Whatever the consequences, that is fine?'' The answer is no, of 
course, we should not. Buy stock on margin and it will cost you a 50-
percent margin requirement. If you want to buy oil on margin in the 
futures market for crude oil, then you pay 5 to 7 percent.

We have hedge funds neck deep in the futures market. We have 
investment banks neck deep in the futures market. Are they are oil 
experts? Do they want to own oil? No, they want to speculate on oil and 
make money.

The fact is, it is damaging this country's economy. We ought to wring 
that speculation out of those commodity markets. We ought to be 
increasing margin requirements. I know it is hard to do, but we ought 
to do that. When we see this kind of speculation damaging our country 
by driving up oil prices and driving up gasoline prices, we ought to do 
something about it.

Second, we are now putting oil underground right now. We are taking 
sweet light crude oil off the Gulf of Mexico and sticking it 
underground in something called the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. I 
think it is fine to have the Strategic Petroleum Reserve if we run into 
trouble. It is nice to have an oil reserve. Yet, that reserve is 97 
percent full. Still, this administration is taking up to 70,000 barrels 
a day, every single day, and sticking it underground.

They say it doesn't affect the price. Of course, it affects the 
price. We had testimony before the Energy Committee that because it is 
a much more valuable subset of oil, called sweet light crude, that it 
has as much as a 10-percent impact on the price of oil and gasoline. 
So, of course, it affects the price.


I think it is nuts for this country to be taking $124 barrel of oil 
and saying let's stick that underground and save it for a rainy day. I 
tell you what, it is a rainy day these days when you have to pay this 
price at the pump. It is a rainy day these days when you see four, five 
airlines go belly up because they cannot afford the fuel. It is a rainy 
day these days when truckers say that we have to park the truck because 
we can't afford the fuel. An entire industry is at risk.

The fact is, we have to do something about it. I mentioned two 
things, both of which are tangible and real and both of which are 
causing this increase, at least a significant part, in my judgment, in 
the increase in the ramp-up of the price of oil and gasoline.

The President believes that there is not much anybody can do in the 
near term. This is not a time to wring our hands, mop our brow, gnash 
our teeth and say there is not much anybody can do. This is a time for 
us to try to figure out what is happening and try to respond to it. It 
is doing great damage to our economy.

In the longer term, I believe that there are things we need to do. We 
are unbelievably dependent on overseas oil. We are unbelievably 
dependent on Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq and Venezuela. Sixty percent of 
our oil comes from offshore. As I described before and others have, we 
stick straws in this planet and suck oil out of the planet. Every day 
we suck out 85 million barrels of oil. One-fourth of that has to be 
used in this country.

Let me say that again. The appetite of oil is this: One-fourth of all 
the oil we pull out of the planet every day is used in this little 
place called the United States of America. Sixty percent we get from 
outside our country. Seventy percent of it is used by vehicles. We have 
a lot to do.



After 32 years, we finally mandated an increase of 10 miles per 
gallon in 10 years on a range of vehicles. We also need to produce 
more. I and three others in this Chamber got the law changed to allow 
us to go into lease 181 in the Gulf of Mexico and finally produce more 
oil and gas. Frankly, we ought to open up more of the Gulf of Mexico. 
That is the greatest potential reserve on the Outer Continental Shelf. 
I and three others introduced the legislation and got it passed and 
opened up lease 181. If you look at the Gulf of Mexico, California, and 
Alaska, and the East Coast, the greatest potential reserves are in the 
Gulf of Mexico.

We need to conserve more and produce more. We need greater efficiency 
for all we use, and we especially need to move into renewables.

I understand we have to do all of that. At the moment and in the 
short run, we have to take specific steps that will put downward 
pressure on prices. John Maynard Keynes said, ''In the long we are all 
dead.'' That is an economist talking. We can talk about the long run 
here, but let's also talk about the short run right now.

What can we do to address something that most Americans understand is 
a very serious problem? The issue is price of gasoline? I am just 
saying this, and there are those who disagree with me. Look at the 
commodities market and look at this orgy of speculation. This is a 
bubble. Wouldn't it be nice if someone had looked at that bubble as it 
built with respect to home mortgages and home prices? We have seen a 
lot of bubbles. We have seen the tech bubble. We have seen the bubble 
in home prices. Every bubble bursts. This one will. But in the 
meantime, how many additional casualties will we see on the side of the 
road? Look at what's happening with American families, American 
business, American industries. How many casualties? The big integrated 
oil companies go to the bank with a ''permagrin.'' They can't stop 
smiling because they are depositing our money in their bank accounts. 
But it is not only the big integrated oil companies, it is the OPEC 
countries. They are going to the bank everyday with our money because 
we recycle this money to provide for a bank account for the Saudis and 
others just like we do for the major integrated companies.

I do not think there is any justification for this price. This 
Congress is prepared to act. Senator Reid and others have joined 
together, and I am a part of it to deal with this issue of putting oil 
underground. We are going to stop it in its tracks. I introduced a 
bipartisan bill a couple of months ago to suspension the filling of the 
SPR. Our entire caucus is also behind the proposition. We believe it's 
time to begin to wring this speculation out of the futures markets and 
stop this insidious rise in oil prices.

While we need to move beyond oil, right now we still need oil. There 
is no question about that. We need to find more, and we need to use 
less, to the extent we can. That means more production and more 
conservation. In the meantime, when markets do not work and people are 
doing things that have no common sense at all, such as putting oil 
underground when oil is $120 a barrel, then this Congress has a 
responsibility to act. We need to get things straight. Let's set things 
right; let's stand up here on the side of the American consumer and on 
the side of American businesses who need this energy.

One final point: In yesterday's The Wall Street Journal, they wrote 
one of those editorials that must make those folks grin like Cheshire 
cats as they sit there with their gray suits on, behind horn-rimmed 
glasses, deciding what to write next in the Wall Street Journal about 
the Senate. Did you see what those folks did in the Senate--Dorgan, 
Schumer, and others? What they did is said we should put pressure on 
the Saudis because the Saudis want to buy precision weapons for their 
own security from us. We should say that maybe they need to be 
producing more oil. Of course, the Wall Street Journal had an 
apoplectic seizure over that.

Here are the points. The Saudis are producing 800,000 barrels a day 
less than they did 2 years ago. It is not lost on them what this is 
doing to price. It is not lost on them, or it should not be, what this 
is doing to our country. They are pumping 800,000 barrels a day less 
than they did 2 years ago and then they say to this administration we 
wish to buy sophisticated weapons from the United States because we 
have our strategic military concerns in our region. Maybe we say to the 
Saudis: The United States has strategic concerns in our country as 
well. Why are you pumping 800,000 barrels a day less when you could be 
putting more oil on the world market? Partnerships work both ways.

I am very concerned about arming the Middle East. I am going to speak 
about that at some point later. But our point to the Saudis and the 
point in the Middle East was simple. If you are pumping 800,000 barrels 
a day less per day and then demand weapons from the U.S. without 
reciprocating then it's not going to work.

That is a long statement to say it is time for us to act. Senator 
Reid, Senator Klobuchar, other Members and I have decided we are not 
going to sit here like potted plants. When something is happening in 
the futures market and when something is happening to take oil off the 
supply to put it in the SPR, then we have a responsibility to act. I 
intend to be a significant part of that.

If we have the markup in the Senate Appropriations Committee this 
afternoon, I intend to offer a couple amendments at that appropriations 
markup. Unfortunately, I understand it may well be canceled this 
afternoon.