---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `bd522c7d81f73f948d25548e7a7268b8`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my 
disappointment with President Bush's veto of the Iraq Accountability 
Act. Sadly, this is just the latest example of the President's 
unwillingness to change his mistaken policy towards Iraq. After more 
than 4 years of the President's stay-the-course strategy in Iraq, we 
must provide a responsible plan to redeploy our troops and require the 
Iraqi government to meet basic benchmarks for stability. This bill 
presented that plan and the President should have signed it into law.

Last month, 4 years after the President declared ''Mission 
Accomplished,'' was the deadliest month for American troops in Iraq 
this year. For too long, the Republican-led Congress failed to exercise 
its Constitutional responsibility to hold the Bush Administration 
accountable--with disastrous results for the American people. No 
longer.

I have opposed the war in Iraq since its start, and today with my 
vote to override the veto I was proud to vote once again to take our 
policy in Iraq in a new direction. More than 4 years after the 
President declared the end of major combat in Iraq, we suffered over 
100 U.S. military casualties in April alone. We must provide a 
responsible plan to redeploy our troops and require the Iraqi 
government to meet basic benchmarks for stability.

Our country faces serious threats. There are dangerous people in this 
world that seek nothing more than to kill as many Americans as 
possible. The number of people who died from my district on September 
11th make me acutely aware of this dire threat. I was proud to vote for 
a bill that allows us to refocus our military on that threat. That 
would allow us to seek out, capture, or kill those who were responsible 
for September 11th or who currently plot to kill Americans rather than 
police a civil war in Iraq.

I'm disappointed that the President chose to ignore the American 
people and veto the Iraq Accountability Act. He should have signed this 
bill, in order to get these needed resources to our troops and our 
veterans, hold the Iraqi government accountable, change course in Iraq 
and refocus on destroying Al Qaeda.

As we move forward, the President must realize that this Congress is 
not going to give the President a blank check with which to ignore the 
will of the American people on Iraq. Four years of a flawed strategy 
are 4 years too long.