---
---

# HONORING THE OLD GUARD
## `bd5ab6c43617329edc611042e80fd737`
`Mr. JONES — 20 July 2009`

---


Mr. JONES. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the outstanding 
individuals of the Old Guard located at Fort Myer, Virginia.

The 3rd United States Infantry, proudly nicknamed the Old Guard, has 
served our Nation since 1784, making it the oldest active duty infantry 
unit in the United States Army.



Since World War II, the Old Guard has served as the Army's official 
Honor Guard. Soldiers from the Old Guard protect Washington, D.C., 
escort the President, and conduct military ceremonies at the White 
House, Pentagon and national memorials in the capital, including 
funeral details and other special ceremonies at Arlington National 
Cemetery.

Last month, I had the pleasure of spending the morning at Arlington 
National Cemetery and seeing the inside workings of the Old Guard. One 
of their most recognized duties is to provide sentinel at the Tomb of 
the Unknowns. Since April the 6th of 1948, the Tomb of the Unknowns has 
been guarded 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, regardless of weather. 
The sentinels rotate walks every hour in the winter and at night and 
every half hour in the day during the summer. They are all volunteers 
and considered to be the best of the Old Guard. Each soldier must be in 
superb physical condition, hold an untarnished military record, and be 
between 5 foot 10 and 6 feet 4 inches tall with the proportionate 
weight and build.

During the trial phase, soldiers are required to memorize seven pages 
of Arlington National Cemetery history, and the knew sentinels learn 
the grave locations of nearly 300 veterans.

The sentinels' duty time not walking is spent in the Tomb Guard 
Quarters below the Memorial Amphitheater, where they study cemetery 
''knowledge,'' clean their weapons, and help the rest of their relief 
prepare for the Changing of the Guard. The guards also train on their 
days off.

A portion of the Sentinels' Creed states: ''My dedication to this 
sacred duty is total and wholehearted. In the responsibility bestowed 
upon me never will I falter, and with dignity and perseverance my 
standard will remain perfection.''

Madam Speaker, it was a humbling experience to witness the sentinels' 
dedication and commitment to honoring all American servicemembers who 
are ''Known But to God.''

I encourage every American who visits our Nation's capital to stop by 
Arlington National Cemetery to pay tribute to the fallen military 
heroes of the past, and to witness the dedication of the Old Guard.

I also encourage my colleagues in Congress to make the time to visit 
Arlington National Cemetery and meet with the fine soldiers of the Old 
Guard. Their motivation and dedication to service should truly fill 
every American with pride.

And as I close, Madam Speaker, as I do many times on this floor, I 
ask God to please bless our men and women in uniform. I ask God in his 
loving arms to hold the families whose child has given their life for 
freedom in Afghanistan and Iraq. And I ask three times, God please, God 
please, God please continue to bless America.