---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `bd5a4fcbcf0f869e8bf02ef9609975b1`
`Mr. HUNTER — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. To my great friend, I don't deserve this honor that he 
has recommended here of naming the bill. I'm just an ordinary American, 
but I get to serve with lots of extraordinary Americans, and the 
gentleman from Missouri is one of those extraordinary Americans. He 
talked about the jointness that he's trying to bring over from his 
great work on the Goldwater-Nichols bill, of bringing our services 
together to act jointly, and extend that to the other agencies which 
are so crucial in this operation in Iraq and Afghanistan, and to bring 
them in also in a way that they act as a member of the team led, most 
of the time, by the Department of Defense, but nonetheless, one that 
requires cohesion and jointness and a culture of working together as a 
team.

I want to commend the gentleman for the fact that he has been the 
corporate historian, if you will, for the House of Representatives and 
for the Armed Services Committee, who often brings us back in debate or 
in hearings to events that transpired in conflicts 100 years ago 
sometimes, or World War II or Korea or Vietnam, and reminds us that we 
shouldn't have to learn the lesson a second time. So I want to give my 
great thanks to this great American, Ike Skelton, and to all of the 
members of the great Armed Services Committee and the chairmen and 
ranking members of the subcommittees who put together such a great 
bill. A couple of them are sitting here next to me. I know Jim Saxton 
is leaving. He was the first chairman of the Special Operations 
Subcommittee, the Terrorism Subcommittee, and traveled the world and 
the country and every base where we had SOCOM people stationed, talking 
to the teams, talking, whether they were Green Berets or Rangers or 
SEALs or other operators, trying to understand what they needed from 
Congress in order to be effective. He worked to get them that 
equipment, and now, as the ranking member of Air, Land, he continues 
that mission.

And, of course, Terry Everett, that guy who doesn't make long 
speeches but spends a lot of time in classified sessions working and 
understanding on the issues surrounding space, and how those issues 
relate to national security. Probably nobody else in the country knows 
as much as he does on those issues.

And, of course, we've got a couple of members, as the chairman said, 
moving on to other offices, Rob Andrews and Mark Udall, and we wish 
them the very best.

Mr. Chairman, this is an excellent defense bill, and I concur with 
the gentleman from Missouri that we should have a unanimous vote in the 
House of Representatives, just as we had under his leadership in the 
Armed Services Committee.

It does a couple of things that are important for us. It works toward 
the warfighting theaters, which are very important, Iraq, Afghanistan 
and other places in the world where the global war on terror is taking 
place. But, at the same time, and in those, in that category, we put in 
extra money for MRAPs for these armored vehicles, for protection for 
our troops, for jammers, for all the things, for new surveillance 
capability, new anti-mortar capability, all the things that would go to 
force protection, and also make our troops more effective in those 
theaters.

But beyond that, we pay a lot of attention and put a great deal of 
focus on modernizing the military and looking over the horizon to 
challenges that may go far beyond the current theaters.

We continue to fund the F-22, which the reports now coming back from 
the operators are to the effect that the F-22 is doing extremely well, 
a high performance fighter aircraft with lots of capability, lots of 
legs, lots of firepower, but especially lots of sensor capability, 
which we're finding to be extremely valuable.

The V-22, which is this platform that the Marines wanted for years 
because it goes roughly twice as fast as the CH-46s that it's 
replacing, are working extremely well in theater. The Marines are 
getting from point A to point B in half the time. They're able to carry 
out their mission more efficiently and effectively. They like that 
particular platform. And across the board, we are replacing and 
modernizing our military equipment.

Now there are some things that we need to do in this bill, and I 
would hope we could do on the floor. We did cut some $300 million out 
of missile defense. Mr. Chairman, we live in an era of missiles. This 
is an era in which we will see, in the coming years, the Iranians 
continuing to improve on the Shahab missile classes, which already can 
reach parts of Europe, at some point will be able to reach all of 
Europe, and will be followed by missile classes that, at some point, 
will be able to reach the United States.

We also have seen North Korea throw a pod of missiles into the North 
China Sea, and the Sea of Japan; some of which have capability, if they 
put more sections on those missiles, ultimately, to reach American 
allies and the United States itself. So we're entering the middle of 
what I would call the era of missiles. And having defense against 
missiles is a key part of the American defense system.

We've had these wonderful successes where we've shot down missiles 
that are traveling, where the interceptor and the missile it shoots 
down 148 miles above the surface of the Earth are traveling roughly 
three times the speed of a 30-06 bullet, and we've had collisions in 
mid flight. We saw a great demonstration when we took down the rogue 
satellite that had to be destroyed to avoid possible collateral damage. 
We took that down with a sea-based missile system that worked very 
well.

We clearly are moving along in the right direction in trying to put 
up defenses as the offensive systems become more sophisticated. But I 
think we need to continue to move down that path.

We did cut money out of the European-based missile systems and other 
systems, and I would hope that we could restore some of the missile 
defense money in this particular bill. I know Mr. Franks will be 
offering that.

Similarly, the FCS program, I think, is an area we need to restore 
dollars. Mr. Chairman, we have a number of en bloc amendments and 
amendments that will be offered by members that I think will, in fact, 
make this bill even a little bit better than it is.

I want to finish by thanking the chairman for putting together a 
great bill in the Armed Services Committee, for moving it down the road 
very quickly, and getting it to the House floor.

This is the bill that provides our troops with the tools that they 
need to get the job done. And that's why it's important, that's why 
this committee acts in such a bipartisan fashion, and we follow the 
bipartisan model of the gentleman from Missouri, Ike Skelton.

I would reserve the balance of my time.

