---
---

# HONORING CAPTAIN BRANDON BARRETT
## `bd62de98f12044ef48818e19d18411f5`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 13 May 2010`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, one of the things that really 
concerns me about war is we lose so many fine young men and women in 
conflict, in the combat area. One of the finest young men in my 
district from Marion, Indiana, Captain Brandon Aaron Barrett, who was 
27 years old, died Wednesday, May 5, while serving in Afghanistan.

Brandon was born January 21, 1983, in Albuquerque, New Mexico. As a 
child, Brandon was friendly and energetic, making friends with everyone 
he came in contact with. He played sports, and he dreamed of serving in 
the United States military. He wanted to be a marine.

After graduating from Marion High School in 2001, he went to the 
United States Naval Academy and he was very proud of that. He graduated 
from there in 2006. Upon graduation, Brandon was assigned to the 1st 
Battalion, 6th Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine Division, II Marine 
Expeditionary Force at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. Brandon deployed 
twice to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, once


from March to October of 2008 and then again in December of 2009.

During Captain Barrett's distinguished career, he received multiple 
awards for his service. The awards that he received include the Navy 
and Marine Achievement Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Global 
War on Terrorism Service Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, and the 
NATO International Security Assistance Force Medal. He has also 
recently been posthumously promoted from first lieutenant to the rank 
of captain. His deep commitment to the United States Marine Corps and 
the men he led was insurmountable.

Brandon ''Bull'' Barrett will be remembered in Marion, Indiana, as a 
gifted athlete, avid outdoorsman, and a natural born leader. Those who 
knew him best will remember him for not only the loyalty and 
perseverance that served him so well in the Marine Corps, but also his 
unwavering dedication to the friendships of his youth in Marion. 
Throughout his life, Brandon kept the city of Marion close to his 
heart, coming home on nearly every leave, and always greeting everyone 
he met with a smile.

To the citizens of the State of Indiana, his fellow marines, and the 
countless others he touched, Brandon will forever be remembered as a 
hero. Our thoughts, prayers, and deepest condolences go out to his 
mother, Cindy; his father, Brett; his brother, Brock; and his sisters, 
Ashley and Taylor.

Mr. Speaker, one of things that we never really think about is the 
impact it has on other people in the Corps or in the Army or Navy when 
they lose one of their beloved fighting buddies. His captain, his 
commanding officer said in an article, ''It's surreal.'' He said, ''I 
keep expecting him to walk around the corner, big smile on his face.'' 
They can't believe he is gone. He said that everyone who knew him knew 
he was a leader, an officer, and a great man, and he is sorely missed.

I would like to say once again to his family, our condolences, our 
deepest condolences go out to you. Everyone in Indiana and throughout 
the country is very happy that he served this country with such great 
distinction.





 [From The Chronicle-Tribune, Marion, IN, May 12, 2010]













 Brandon Aaron Barrett












 Jan. 21, 1983-May 5, 2010




 Brandon Aaron Barrett, 27, died on Wednesday, May 5, 2010, 


 serving his country in Afghanistan. He has recently been 


 posthumously promoted from the rank of first lieutenant to 


 captain by the United States Marine Corps.



 Barrett was born Jan. 21, 1983 in Albuquerque, New Mexico. 


 He spent his childhood befriending everyone he met, playing 


 sports, and dreaming of becoming a soldier for the United 


 States military.



 Brandon graduated from Marion High School in 2001, and he 


 was proudly accepted into the United States Naval Academy at 


 Annapolis, Maryland. He graduated in 2006, joined the Marine 


 Corps, and was promoted to the rank of first lieutenant on 


 May 26, 2008. Barrett was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 6th 


 Marine Regiment; 2nd Marine Division, II Marine Expeditionary 


 Force at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. He deployed to 


 Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom from 


 March to October 2008 and again in December 2009.



 Barrett's awards include the Navy and Marine Corps 


 Achievement Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Global War 


 on Terrorism Service Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal and 


 NATO International Security Assistance Force Medal.



 Brandon ''Bull'' Barrett was an outstanding athlete, an 


 avid outdoorsman and a natural leader. He confronted every 


 task with enthusiasm and accepted each responsibility with 


 dignity. His passionate commitment to the Marine Corps and to 


 his troops was insurmountable. Those who knew him will 


 remember his loyalty and his dedication to friendship most of 


 all. His eyes held no prejudice, and he greeted everyone with 


 a smile. Brandon kept the city of Marion, Indiana closest to 


 his heart, returning home on nearly every leave. To its 


 citizens and to the countless numbers of lives that he 


 touched, Brandon Barrett will forever be remembered as a 


 hero.



 He is survived by his mother, Cindy Barrett; his father, 


 Brett Barrett; his sisters, Ashley and Taylor Barrett; his 


 brother, Brock Barrett; and his grandmother, Carmen Johnson. 


 Additional survivors include several aunts, uncles and 


 cousins.



 Visitation will be held on Friday, May 14, 2010 from 4 p.m. 


 to 8 p.m. in the Marion High School Bill Green Athletic 


 Arena, 750 W. 26th Street, Marion, IN 46953.



 A funeral service will be held at 10 a.m. on Saturday, May 


 15, 2010, also at the MHS Bill Green Athletic Arena. A burial 


 service will follow at Gardens of Memory, 11201 S. Marion Rd. 


 35, Marion, IN 46952.



 In lieu of flowers, donations can be made for those wishing 


 to contribute to a memorial and scholarship fund in Brandon's 


 name. Please send contributions to STAR Wealth Management, 


 Capt. Brandon A. Barrett Memorial Fund, 3610 River Crossing 


 Parkway--Suite 190, Indianapolis, IN 46240.



 Local arrangements are being handled by Needham-Storey-


 Wampner Funeral Service, North Chapel, 1341 N. Baldwin 


 Avenue, Marion, IN.



 Barrett was killed in Afghanistan a week ago today, 60 days 


 before he was scheduled to return home from his tour in 


 combat.



 His sister, Ashley Barrett, said she and her family are 


 looking forward to allowing her brother to be at peace by 


 finally laying his body to rest.



 More details regarding his killing were reported this week 


 by The Sunday Times, of London.



 ''That article was very upsetting to read,'' Ashley Barrett 


 said.



 She said the information reported in the British newspaper 


 was more than what the family received in the casualty report 


 provided by the U.S. Marine Corps.



 According to the article, under the headline, ''Swift and 


 bloody: the Taliban's revenge,'' a Taliban gunman shot 


 Barrett while he was fortifying his post in the Helmand town 


 of Marjah. Barrett and Lance Corporal Marcus Lounello, 21, 


 did not have their flak jackets on because of the heat that 


 day. The Times article said Barrett was shot in the chest as 


 he stood between two armored vehicles and died before a 


 medical team could reach him, and Lounello was also shot and 


 suffered extreme internal injuries: Lounello is expected to 


 recover.



 ''It's surreal'' Captain Tony Zinni, Barrett's commanding 


 officer in the 1st Battalion, 6th Marine Regiment, told the 


 Times on Saturday. ''I keep expecting him to walk around the 


 corner, big smile on his face.''



 Barett had been well known in Marjah, according to the 


 article. He guarded a post that checked traffic coming in and 


 out of the town that was once a Taliban stronghold. The city 


 was taken over by the Marines and their Afghan allies in 


 February. Zinni told the Times that it was generally a boring 


 duty, but Barrett was good about it.



 According to the article, Barrett would visit the 


 neighborhood elders in Marjah, and could even partially speak 


 their language--Pashto.



 Zinni told the Times he thinks the lieutenant was targeted 


 and it makes him angry.



 ''Everyone in the block knew him, knew he was the 


 officer,'' the captain said of Barrett.



 Barrett was the first death in Marjah for the battalion's 


 weapons company.



 Barrett's friend, Andrew Morrell of Marion, said the 


 efforts Barrett made to know the elders in Marjah and learn 


 their language was part of his character:



 ''The main reason why Jesus affected the lives of so many 


 people in his ministry in Galilee is because he dwelt amongst 


 the people. This is the exact same reason why Brandon made 


 such an impact among friends, family, but even more, 


 strangers,'' wrote Morrell, who, communicated by e-mail while 


 in Israel.
