---
---

# HONORING THE 3RD BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM
## `bd6ebdcaf17e4235440bb647d1496fe6`
`Mr. OWENS — 20 January 2010`

---


Mr. OWENS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay homage to the soldiers, 
family members, friends, USO supporters and the entire North Country 
community as they welcome home the 3rd Brigade Combat Team. Tomorrow 
the Spartans will celebrate their homecoming among those who tirelessly 
supported them while in Afghanistan. It is that greater community that 
I tribute today.

No effort by our service men and women is conducted in a vacuum; 
behind every soldier departing U.S. soil stands a dedicated team of 
family, friends and civilian volunteers who tirelessly work behind the 
scenes. Their efforts are seldom recognized for what they really are--
absolutely vital to the achievements of soldiers in harm's way and 
essential to ensure a smooth transition when they return home.

The community surrounding Fort Drum has shown an amazing capacity to 
support our soldiers in every possible way. From providing shipments of 
care packages to volunteering at USO events and the support of the Fort 
Drum Regional Liaison Organization, the North Country has provided 
outstanding assistance to the 3rd BCT.

One particular event that wouldn't have happened without the 
community's support is the ''Spartan Spectacular.'' This celebration of 
the brigade has been driven by the USO, and funded by generous 
donations from devotees of the 10th Mountain Division like Mr. Alfred 
Weissman. To Mr. Weissman, the soldiers and families of the 3rd Brigade 
Combat Team, and the greater Fort Drum community, I express my sincere 
thank you for all you do in support of the defense of our country.
