# TRIBUTE TO AZERBAIJANIS
## `bd7036dd3f3be742469eb8b307840058`
`Mr. TOWNS — 23 May 2008`

---


Mr. TOWNS. Madam Speaker, I rise as a member of the House Azerbaijan 
Caucus, to honor Azerbaijanis around the world, as they prepare to 
celebrate Republic Day on May 28. Republic Day commemorates 
Azerbaijan's declaration of its independence from the Russian Empire in 
1918, becoming the first democratic secular republic in the Eastern 
hemisphere. Despite its short existence, 1918-1920, the Democratic 
Republic of Azerbaijan had achieved considerable success in state 
building and creation of educational foundations for future 
generations. The Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan granted suffrage to 
women shortly after its creation, ahead of most Western democracies.

Despite all of its successes, the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan 
was not in a position to withstand the occupational forces of the then 
newly formed Soviet Russia. Consequently, Azerbaijan had temporarily 
lost its independence in 1920 and later was included into the U.S.S.R.

In 1990, Azerbaijan regained its independence from the U.S.S.R., 
ending 70 years of Soviet rule. Meantime, Azerbaijanis will never 
forget the tragic events of January 1990, forever known to all 
Azerbaijanis as Black January, as the Soviet army crushed peaceful 
demonstrations in the streets of the capital Baku. On August 30, 1991, 
Azerbaijan's Parliament adopted the Declaration on the Restoration of 
Independence of the Republic of Azerbaijan, and on October 18, 1991, 
the independence was approved by the Constitution.

Since its independence, the Republic of Azerbaijan has been an 
invaluable ally and is among the first nations, who offered 
unconditional support to the United States in the War Against Terror, 
providing its airspace and the use of its airports for Operation 
Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. Today, Azerbaijani troops continue to 
serve with distinction in Afghanistan and in Iraq.

Azerbaijan is also a founding member of GUAM--Organization for 
Democracy and Economic Development, which includes Georgia, Ukraine, 
Azerbaijan and Moldova. Azerbaijan is a leading nation in regional 
economic cooperation through development of various international 
projects. Azerbaijan is also one of the key players in European energy 
security matters.

Madam Speaker and dear colleagues, please join me in thanking the 
people of Azerbaijan for their sincere friendship towards our country, 
and congratulate Azerbaijanis around the world on the 90th anniversary 
of Republic Day.

I also would like to thank and congratulate my Azerbaijani-American 
constituents, lead by Naimi and Naila Amiraliyev, for their tireless 
efforts in developing and strengthening the friendship and 
understanding between our nations.
