---
---

# GUANTANAMO BAY
## `bd848ab299fa85791708c3ee84ab91f9`
`Mr. HATCH — 12 March 2009`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to express my apprehension 
regarding the closure of the Guantanamo Bay Detention Center in Cuba. I 
have several concerns regarding the transfer and disposition of the 
enemy combatants detained there in response to the attacks of September 
11, 2001.

Here we are, almost 8 years removed from that fateful Tuesday morning 
when terrorists murdered 3,000 of our citizens at the Pentagon, the 
World Trade Center complex, and on hijacked flights. On that day, we 
were caught flatfooted and hit with a right cross. Many of us who were 
here in Congress in the days that followed 9/11 swore we would provide 
the President and the Nation with whatever tools were necessary to 
ensure that we would never be caught by surprise again.

So on September 18, 2001, Congress sent to President Bush the 
Authorization to Use Military Force. This was signed into law. Twenty-
six days after the attacks on New York and Washington, we commenced 
military operations in Afghanistan. We had identified our enemy and 
determined the location of his base of operation and where this 
treacherous plot had been devised. We took the fight to the Taliban and 
al-Qaida and engaged them in Afghanistan. In the course of those 
engagements, U.S. and coalition forces captured enemy combatants.

Early in 2002, enemy combatants who were seized on the battlefield 
began arriving at Guantanamo for detention. In 2004, the Supreme Court 
issued an opinion in Hamdi v. Rumsfeld that, as a necessary incident to 
the AUMF, the President is authorized to detain persons captured while 
fighting U.S. forces in Afghanistan until the cessation of hostilities. 
At one time, nearly 800 detainees were housed at Guantanamo. 
Approximately 525 detainees have been transferred to other countries 
for detention or released outright and returned to their country of 
residence. Approximately 60 detainees who were released were later 
recaptured on the field of battle in Afghanistan or have again taken up 
arms against the United States on other fronts.

Recently, as reported this year in the January 23 edition of the New 
York Times, a former Guantanamo detainee from Saudi Arabia has 
resurfaced as No. 2 in charge of al-Qaida in Yemen.

There he is, as shown in this picture: Said Ali al-Shihiri, deputy 
leader for al-Qaida in Yemen; also known as Abu Sayyaf al-Shihiri and 
also as Abu-Sufyan al-Azidi; and also known as Guantanamo detainee No. 
372. He was released from Guantanamo in November 2007. He planned the 
U.S. Embassy attack in Yemen in September 2008.

Furthermore, it is believed this man was involved in the planning of 
an attack on the American Embassy in Yemen last September. This 
terrorist assisted in the murder of 10 Yemeni citizens and 1 American--
former Guantanamo detainee No. 372.

The Washington Post recently ran a 2-day installment profiling a 
Guantanamo detainee from Kuwait: Abdullah Saleh al-Ajmi, also known as 
Guantanamo detainee No. 220, released from Guantanamo in November 2006, 
and detonated a truck bomb in Mosul, Iraq, in March 2008.

He was released and subsequently traveled to Syria and snuck into 
Iraq. Ultimately, this terrorist drove a truck packed with explosives 
into a joint American and Iraqi military training camp and blew himself 
up, taking 13 Iraqi soldiers with him--former Guantanamo detainee No. 
220.

In March of 2004, a released detainee returned to Pakistan to again 
take up the fight against coalition forces as an insurgent. His name is 
Abdullah Mehsud. This former detainee, in July 2007, killed himself in 
engagement. He was responsible for the kidnapping of Chinese nationals 
in Pakistan. After Pakistani forces began to close in on him, he blew 
himself up with a grenade.

These are just a few of the examples that illustrate how precarious 
it can be to release these detainees to other nations. We are 
outsourcing the security of our Nation to other countries. Shouldn't we 
be cautious and examine who we are letting free? Who is taking custody 
of these detainees? What security precautions and monitoring measures 
are in place to ensure they stay incarcerated or remain accountable?

If we shelve the only DOD strategic interrogation facility we have 
and cannot place these detainees with confidence in other countries, 
will we be forced to transfer these enemy combatants to the United 
States? Removing these detainees from a secure military facility with 
an airport, a highly trained security force, a secure infrastructure, 
and located on an island outside the continental United States is, in 
my opinion, reckless. Bringing these detainees to the continental 
United States is tantamount to injecting a virus into a healthy body.

On January 22, 2009, President Obama signed three Executive orders 
pertaining to Guantanamo and the enemy combatants detained there. He 
has ordered the closure of the detention facility within 12 months. He 
has also required that any detainees presently in custody be treated 
humanely and in accordance with the Army Field Manual. In fact, this 
order references the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005, an act passed by 
Congress that required that the treatment of the detainees comply with 
the Army Field Manual. The objective of this order was already 
fulfilled by the passing of that law.

The third order commissioned a task force to conduct a comprehensive 
review of options available that will provide a solution and final 
disposition for the detainees at Guantanamo. The Executive order 
closing Guantanamo states:




 Prompt and appropriate disposition of individuals currently 


 detained at Guantanamo and closure of the facilities in which 


 they are detained would further the national security and 


 foreign policy interests of the United States.


Now, presently, approximately 245 detainees designated as ''enemy 
combatants'' are housed at Guantanamo. The possibility of returning a 
majority of these detainees to their home country or a third country so 
that we can rid ourselves of this issue troubles me, nor does it strike 
me as particularly sophisticated in the analysis of how other countries 
see us. There is no doubt that among some European elites, their 
opinions on the previous administration became more negative as the 
years went by. There is no doubt that this was also reflected amongst


the broader populations who have tended toward liberalism for decades. 
Opinions from other parts of the world are harder to measure, of 
course, as it is difficult to measure the views of populations living 
under various types of autocratic government.

Negative international opinion should not be exaggerated for a number 
of reasons. First and most obvious, leadership, particularly in 
difficult times, should not be directed by polls. This is true 
domestically, and it certainly is true of foreign polls. It is neither 
our job nor the administration's job to represent foreign populations. 
Decisions in Government should not be made by leaders sticking their 
fingers in the air to see which way the wind is blowing.

Second, appealing to foreign popularity completely disregards the 
unique role this Nation has played in advancing global security. It 
also disregards the historic debates in which leftwing parties have 
advanced their ideology. But we should not ignore that there has been 
unprecedented--unprecedented--cooperation from the same Democratic 
governments whose liberal disdain so succors some in the opposition 
here on all matters of national security. Cooperation from these 
governments on diplomatic, military, intelligence, law enforcement, and 
humanitarian assistance has been the norm, not the exception, 
regardless of disputes on Iraq policy and on those governments' views 
on Guantanamo.

In terms of foreign policy, I would much rather have the cooperation 
of a government than its approval, although I recognize that in some 
cases the approval facilitates the cooperation. But realistically 
speaking--and this is a subject that ought to be steeped in realism--
popularity is not a prerequisite for hard-headed cooperation against a 
common threat.

I wish to quote what columnist Tom Friedman--who is certainly not a 
cheerleader for the Republican Party--said about foreign policy thinker 
Michael Mandelbaum, who is usually associated with Democratic policies:




 When it comes to the way other countries view America's 


 preeminent role in the world--


Writes Friedman, who then quotes Mandelbaum--



 whatever its lifespan, three things can be safely predicted: 


 The other countries will not pay for it; they will continue 


 to criticize it; and they will miss it when it is gone.


I would urge the policymakers in this administration, as well as my 
colleagues in the majority party, to consider this wisdom expressed by 
Democratic thinkers the next time they engage in the canard that we 
need to change our policy to improve our standing with other nations. 
Let's hope this is not the main reason to shutter Guantanamo because, 
if it is, it is a slim and irresponsible reason.

Prior to the issuance of the Executive order, I received a briefing 
on the President's intention to close Guantanamo. I would endorse an 
approach that would have commissioned a 1-year review process rather 
than coming out and declaring closure within a year. It strikes me that 
the study should come before the decision, not accompany it.

On his second full day in office, the President, without his Attorney 
General in place, issued this order, and I fear he painted himself into 
a corner. Two weeks ago, Attorney General Holder visited Guantanamo 
Bay. His public comment on his visit was the following:




 I think it is going to take us a good portion of that time 


 to really get our hands around what Guantanamo is and what 


 Guantanamo was.


I am sure Attorney General Holder saw what I saw at Guantanamo when I 
visited there. I am sure he saw the impressive infrastructure, with 
medical, recreational, and legal facilities. Attorney General Holder is 
a good man, and I am glad the President has made him the point man on 
this issue, but his comments are indicative of the fact that the 
complexities surrounding Guantanamo cannot be solved by the stroke of a 
pen on an Executive order.

On February 23, 2009, the Department of Defense submitted a report to 
the White House titled ''Compliance With the President's Executive 
Order on Detainee Conditions of Confinement at Guantanamo Bay.'' The 
Secretary of Defense tasked a special team to review the treatment of 
detainees and the conditions at Guantanamo in response to the 
President's order of January 22, 2009. The review team focused on 
myriad issues, especially housing, medical treatment, food services, 
religious freedom, access to attorneys, mail, security, use of force, 
interrogation, discipline, and intellectual stimulation.

During its 13-day investigation, the review team reviewed hours upon 
hours of videotapes, reports, and important records. Team members also 
conducted more than 100 interviews of base leadership, support staff, 
interrogators, and guards. Moreover, they conducted unannounced spot 
checks both day and night.

In the end, the review team concluded that the detention facility and 
the treatment of detainees at Guantanamo are in compliance with common 
article III of the Geneva Convention. What I found especially pleasing 
is that the review team concluded that Guantanamo interrogation 
protocols exceed the Army Field Manual and that cells at Guantanamo 
from maximum and high security cell blocks--I am quoting from the 
report--''exceed those typical of medium and maximum security detention 
facilities throughout the United States.''

I wish to quote other excerpts:




 Interrogations of Guantanamo detainees are all voluntary. 


 Approximately one-third of all interrogations take place at 


 the request of the detainee. Detainees are permitted to 


 decline participation in interrogations at any time with no 


 negative disciplinary consequences.


Unfortunately, our own Washington Post chose only to run a small 
article on this report. It was buried on page 3. This is in sharp 
contrast to the multiday, multipage, above-the-fold story about the 
released detainee who blew himself up in Mosul in March of 2008. I 
suppose the media was hoping this review of operations at Guantanamo 
would reveal that the present conditions of the detainees would be in 
violation of the Geneva Convention. Therein lays the problem. Somewhere 
along the way politicians, nominees, and the media all started to label 
the present conditions at Guantanamo as intolerable and substandard.


This report shows that conditions mirror or exceed any current prison 
in the Federal system. I encourage every Member to read the report and 
learn for themselves the facts about Guantanamo.

Some of the administration's proposals--ones endorsed by my Senate 
colleagues in the majority--involve bringing the detainees to the 
United States. I have given this issue serious consideration and am 
unable to find one good reason why our Government would want to do 
this. We have legally detained enemy combatants on the field of battle. 
We have categorized them into three classifications: First, detainees 
who no longer pose a threat and need to be returned to their country or 
a third country; secondly, enemy detainees who are too dangerous to 
release and must be incarcerated until the cessation of hostilities; 
and, third, detainees against whom we will present admissible evidence 
and adjudicate within the parameters of a fair and constitutionally 
guaranteed process.

There is no reason this court proceeding cannot be carried out at 
Guantanamo or satellite facilities outside the United States. The 
transfer of the detainees to the United States will undoubtedly present 
a wide array of complex legal issues that, in my estimation, will take 
longer than 1 year to solve. Mechanisms at Guantanamo that ensure a 
fair adversarial judicial proceeding, with all the applicable rights, 
is feasible and can be carried out and has been carried out previously 
at Guantanamo.

If we close this facility and are unable to place some of these 
detainees into the custody of third countries, what then? The Bureau of 
Prisons has previously stated that they consider these prisoners a 
''high security risk.'' As such, these prisoners would need to be 
housed in a maximum security prison. According to the Bureau of 
Prisons, it does not have enough space in maximum security facilities 
to house these detainees. However, one idea offered by my colleagues in 
the majority party for holding the detainees would be to transfer them 
to the Federal Supermax Prison in Florence, CO.

Now, this facility holds the worst criminal elements our country has. 
The maximum security institution, Supermax, ADX, Florence, CO. The


rated capacity is 490 prisoners. The current level is 471. The Bureau 
tries to ensure that this facility is never at full capacity in case of 
emergency transfers. In reality, the Federal Bureau of Prisons doesn't 
have the room required to hold these very dangerous prisoners in high 
security facilities.

As an alternative to the Supermax at Florence, CO, another idea 
offered by the majority would be to sprinkle the detainees throughout 
the Federal Prison System. Just look at this chart of the Federal 
Bureau of Prisons: We have 15 high-security prisons. The maximum beds 
in those 15 high-security prisons happen to be 13,448. The current 
population of those prisons is 20,291. It doesn't take too many brains 
to realize we can't solve it that way.