# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5893, INVESTING IN AMERICAN JOBS  AND CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES ACT OF 2010
## `bd905150383a020ba3b836ceffdc6b52`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida â€” 29 July 2010`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, this resolution provides a closed rule for the 
consideration of H.R. 5893, the Investing in American Jobs and Closing 
Tax Loopholes Act of 2010.

The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the bill 
except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI and against the 
bill, itself. The rule provides that the previous question shall be 
considered as ordered, without intervening motion, except 1 hour of 
debate for the Ways and Means Committee and one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions. The rule also provides same-day authority for 
a resolution reported from the Rules Committee through Sunday, August 
1, 2010.

Madam Speaker, H.R. 5893, the Investing in American Jobs and Closing 
Tax Loopholes Act of 2010, creates and protects American jobs through 
increased investment in infrastructure and by closing tax loopholes 
that enable companies to move their operations offshore. This is 
another piece of legislation to add to the long list of bills that 
Democrats have passed this Congress to spur opportunities to support 
American jobs, American manufacturing, and American families. Democrats 
are helping Americans dig out of the worst recession in decades. We are 
making steady, albeit slow--too slow for me--gains in our economy. The 
struggle is not over, but we are on the right path.

Madam Speaker, this legislation funds the highly successful Build 
America Bonds program, the Recovery Zone Bonds, the Emergency State 
Jobs Assistance program, and it closes unfair tax loopholes that allow 
corporations to send American jobs overseas. This bill provides 
critical funding for infrastructure investment that will create jobs 
here in the United States and will put money in the pockets of people 
who badly need it.



And yet, still, the Republicans are against it.

Madam Speaker, it seems every other day around here we have to drag 
our Republican colleagues kicking and screaming to the House floor to 
try to help hardworking Americans, and they continue to say ''no.''

Every other day we have to try to persuade our friends on the other 
side of the aisle that it's not crazy for the American Government to 
invest in the American economy to benefit the American people.

Every other day we have to remonstrate the same old arguments from 
the Republicans about spending and deficits and taxes and the bad old 
government stifling our economic recovery.



I'll remind this body that the Republicans were against the largest 
stimulus in history, which was not large enough for me and some of us 
in this body. But they were against this stimulus, an effort that 
demonstrably has saved American jobs.

And I'll remind this body that 95 percent of the Republicans in this 
House have signed a pledge to protect tax breaks for companies that 
ship American jobs overseas.

And I'll remind this body that Republicans have consistently voted 
against job creation and economic development measures that directly 
benefit, directly benefit hardworking Americans trying to secure enough 
income to feed their families and keep their homes.

Every single time Democrats try to pass essential legislation in this 
body, and the other body, Republicans complain about the numbers. If 
it's spending on investments in our economy, Republicans complain the 
numbers are too high. But if it's spending on tax cuts for the 
extremely 1 percent wealthiest of Americans, the Republicans complain 
the numbers are too low.

Well, here's a number and a letter we should be mindful of: $2.2 
trillion, and the letter D: D is the grade given to America's 
infrastructure by the American Society of Engineers in 2009.

And $2.2 trillion is the amount the American Society of Engineers 
estimates the United States needs to spend over the next 5 years to 
repair our crumbling infrastructure.

Madam Speaker, in recent years we've seen levees fail, bridges 
collapse. As a matter of fact, we saw a levee fail last week in Iowa. 
Bridges collapsed. I asked one of our colleagues yesterday that 
appeared before the Rules Committee, how did he feel when the bridge 
collapsed in Minnesota. He referenced it as a national tragedy, as all 
of us do and did.

But when I came to this Congress in 1992, there were 14,000 bridges 
that were in disrepair in the United States of America. And I dare say 
that we have not even come close and, likely, there are many more. And 
what I said to him was, I wanted his daughter, who I know, to travel on 
a safe bridge, and I wanted my children and all the children of all 
Americans, when they cross a bridge, to know that that bridge is safe.

Millions of tons of hazardous waste have wrecked fragile ecosystems, 
and billions of gallons of wastewater have poured from burst pipes into 
our rivers and streams, and we saw that happen this week in America.

Beyond the disasters is the steadily rising gridlock on our highways, 
roads, airports and rails, the constant erosion of our water systems. 
Right here in the metropolitan Washington area people are on boil water 
advisories and limited uses, including for showers.

Declining park land in urban areas and maintenance backlogs in our 
schools amounting to hundreds of billions of dollars.

Budget cuts are not going to repair bridges, replace water treatment 
facilities or maintain classrooms. State and local governments 
desperately need Federal funding to engage American small businesses 
and put people to work.

This legislation provides billions of dollars in infrastructure bonds 
and other supports so communities can hire the necessary workers to 
make sure that, while we are arguing about process here, whether or not 
it's a closed rule or an open rule, arguing process in the Rules 
Committee, more dams don't fail. That's what we want to make sure that 
does not happen.

Dollars that go to infrastructure projects get returned to the 
economy at higher rates. Infrastructure spending is impactful, 
essential, and worthwhile, pumping in cash that goes right to the 
American worker.

The funding in this legislation is paid for. It does not add to the 
deficit. It is revenue neutral, and there is no wasteful spending in 
here.

What Republicans argue is wasteful, I say, is essential to preventing 
millions of Americans from falling into destitution. For every one job 
opening in our great country, there are five applicants. Unemployment 
remains unbearably high, and all economists indicate that it is going 
to remain that way for some time to come.

I dare say that what America needs to understand, and what my 
colleagues here on both sides of the aisle continue to say, is that it 
happened on this President's watch, or it happened on that President's 
watch. The real truth is the economy in this country transitioned, as 
well as globally, over about a 45-year period of time. I'll get to that 
one day, so as how there's a better understanding than all of this 
finger-pointing about who caused this deficit.

And I certainly hope we have a debate about how much the war in Iraq 
and Afghanistan cost. I can tell you now it's about $1 trillion. And 
guess what our deficit is? Just a little more than $1 trillion.

Madam Speaker, it's far past time to pass this legislation. I urge my 
colleagues to vote favorably on this rule and on the final passage of 
this legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.