# None
## `bd9feb524445e4cabb2590ad5a5ae418`
`Mr. REID — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Yes, once again what we have seen with my friend from 
Mississippi, and he is my friend--we have seen Republican leadership 
resort to technical maneuvers to block progress on this crucial 
amendment. It would be one thing for Republicans to vote


against this amendment. It is their right to do so. If they honestly 
believe stay the course is the right strategy, they have the right to 
vote no. But now Republicans are using a filibuster to block us from 
even voting on an amendment that could bring this war to a responsible 
end. They are protecting the President rather than protecting our 
troops. They are denying us an up-or-down vote, yes or no, a vote on 
the most important issue our country faces today.

I am speaking today for the American people; 67 percent of the 
American people think the surge has been a failure--Democrats; not even 
a majority of Republicans favor the surge. Of course, a significant 
majority of Independents recognize that the surge has not been good. We 
are speaking for the American people on this bipartisan amendment.

We have no choice, as I have indicated earlier, but to stay in 
session. The Republicans have a right to talk. Let them talk. It is 
their filibuster. But we will continue to speak in spite of that. When 
they finish their filibuster, we will still be speaking, continue 
speaking out on behalf of our troops and all Americans--all Americans: 
Democrats, a majority of the Republicans, and the Independents--to 
continue requesting consent for an up-or-down vote on our amendment to 
end this war.

I don't want to make any more calls to the families in Nevada who 
have lost a loved one. Tens of thousands of our bold, brave Americans 
have been injured, wounded--a third of them grievously. When we hear 
that there was an improvised explosive device and two soldiers were 
killed, it doesn't talk about the maiming of other soldiers. 
Thousands--thousands of American troops have lost multiple limbs. We 
have heard from the experts about the head trauma. I can't get out of 
my mind my trip to Walter Reed, where a woman said: I have been in the 
military--I have been in the Army for 22 years. I have a master's 
degree. My specialty was numbers. I worked in the Pentagon with 
numbers. She said: I don't even know my own phone number. She said: I 
have never had my skin pierced, but I have been knocked down; I have 
been in these explosions numerous times. I have no mind anymore.

That is what this amendment is all about--to change course. Is it 
necessary we wait 60 more days until this magic day in September to 
change course? How many more Americans soldiers are going to be killed? 
How many are going to be maimed, wounded, lose their arms, lose their 
minds? So we have no choice but to stay in session and continue 
speaking out on behalf of our troops and all Americans, to continue 
requesting consent for an up-or-down vote on this amendment.

Our troops in Baghdad are 8 hours ahead of us here on the east coast. 
As we begin our debate in earnest tonight, our troops are going to be 
waking up. They will be waking up to the 1,582nd day of this war. They 
will wake up, and it is very hot in Iraq this time of the year. They 
are a long ways away in some foreign land we call Iraq, far from their 
families, and facing, every minute of the day, danger.

This is not a war where the troops gather and face each other. This 
is a war in an urban setting, most of the time, where people are blown 
up driving vehicles up streets buying groceries in a marketplace. What 
happened yesterday? In a place that there had been no violence, more 
than 100 were killed and more than 200 injured. The picture in the 
paper--there is a hole where that bomb went off as big and deep as this 
Chamber we are in today.

The violence is escalating. The new report is out. It was leaked last 
week; it is out today. ''Al-Qaida stronger,'' so says the report. The 
President disagrees, but that is what the report says. Can't have it 
both ways.


So our valiant troops are going to wake up with this war facing 
them--more than any one of us can understand, with the exception of 
maybe Senator Webb, Senator Kerry, maybe John McCain--I am sorry if I 
missed others--Senator Inouye, Senator Stevens. Senator Hagel, of 
course--with his brother--fought in Vietnam. They are going to wake up, 
as I said, far from their families, facing constant danger, for what? 
For what? Mr. President, 69 percent of the Iraqi people don't want us 
there. They are saying we are doing more harm than good. Al Maliki said 
a couple of days ago he can do without us. We can leave whatever time 
we want. They can handle the situation with the billions and billions 
of dollars we have spent training Iraqi troops.

We as Senators owe it to each of our men and women in Iraq to debate 
the war openly and honestly, and we owe it to all Americans to finally 
vote for a responsible end to the war that has been so long in coming. 
I hope by the time this night is through and dawn has broken that we 
will have the opportunity to vote.

We are willing to vote before that. Whenever we have an opportunity, 
we are going to ask reasonably that we have a vote on the bipartisan 
amendment. It is the right thing to do. It is what the American people 
deserve.

We are spending, now, $12 billion a month. Is that enough to get our 
attention? We are trying to do other things. What are we trying to do? 
Get health care for kids. The President is very concerned about these 
appropriations bills which we are going to try to pass. Where is the 
money to pass them, giving the American people what they deserve? It 
has been taken in the sands of Iraq, to the tune of more than a half a 
trillion dollars.

I yield the floor.