---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `bdbb7736bc9561afe46781dd4f069cfd`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the 2010 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act.

This measure represents Congress's commitment to the millions of 
dedicated men and women, in and out of uniform, throughout the 
Department of Defense, who work to address the national security 
challenges of the country. This bill also expresses our commitment to 
their families, whose service to the country is recognized and greatly 
appreciated.

In total, the act appropriates $636.3 billion for DoD programs, 
operations and troop support. This represents a 2 percent increase of 
current funding levels, and while not including funding for the 
President's proposed troop increase in Afghanistan, includes $128.2 
billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The bill contains funds to meet the logistical needs of our military 
including new and updated equipment, combat vehicles and battle gear. 
The measure also includes funding for military pay raises, military 
health care benefits and quality of life improvements for the troops 
and their families.

Since first clearing this chamber in July, there have been important 
add-ons made to the bill. These add-ons include a number of non-defense 
provisions--such as an extension of certain emergency unemployment 
insurance benefits; an extension of a 65 percent premium subsidy for 
COBRA health insurance, allowing recipients to obtain the subsidized 
insurance coverage for six additional months; a delay, until February, 
of a scheduled 21 percent cut in Medicare payments to doctors; funding 
for nutrition assistance; and $400 million for state administrative 
expenses.

Additionally, I am especially pleased that today's DoD Appropriations 
bill includes an unprecedented fund of $300 million set aside for the 
purpose of mitigating BRAC-related transportation and community impacts 
at the new Walter Reed National Military Medical Center and Fort 
Belvoir. Congress is committed to building world class facilities for 
our wounded warriors in the national capital region, and these funds 
are an integral part of that effort. I want to thank Congressman Moran, 
Chairman Murtha, and Chairman Obey, as well as Senator Mikulski and 
Senator Cardin, for their partnership on this initiative. I look 
forward to working. with our Senate colleagues, the Department of 
Defense, and other stakeholders to make these funds available for their 
intended purpose at the soonest possible date.

Madam Speaker, as the country prepares to ask even more of our 
service members, it is our responsibility to do all we can to honor our 
commitments to them and their families-- While we can never fully repay 
the debt we owe them, we can work to ensure that they have the 
resources they need to do their jobs abroad and the resources they need 
to meet their obligations here at home.

I encourage my colleagues join me in support of the bill.