# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `bdbc5b47ee7c9df8a8c81d6c473a0304`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 18 October 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Madam Speaker, it's disappointing that the 
Administration and many Republicans can't get their priorities in order 
and support an expansion of SCHIP. The Administration's veto of H.R. 
976, the Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act, shows just how 
far its priorities are from the rest of this country.

The Administration said it's too expensive. Yet the Administration 
has had no trouble spending half-a-trillion dollars on the occupation 
of Iraq. The Administration's priorities are clear: Unlimited money for 
occupation, no money for kids. Currently, we're spending about $14 
million dollars per hour on the occupation. That means we could provide 
medical, dental, and mental health care to more than 10,000 low-income 
children for the cost of just one single hour in Iraq.

This bill was an opportunity for us to stand up and say that 10 
million of our Nation's children deserve health coverage and access to 
dental and mental health services. In California, that would have 
provided 607,000 additional children with health insurance. By vetoing 
this bill, the Administration has turned its back on these children.

Additionally, the Administration has abandoned its promise to our 
Nation's military service members and their families. This legislation 
amends the Family and Medical Leave Act, the landmark workplace 
protection legislation passed 14 years ago, to provide the spouse, 
child, parent, and next of kin of an injured service member with six 
months of unpaid, job protected leave to care for their wounded loved 
one. This language is identical to the bipartisan bill, H.R. 3481, the 
Support for Injured Servicemembers Act, which Chairman George Miller 
and I have championed in the House and Senators Christopher Dodd and 
Hillary Rodham Clinton have fought for in the Senate. We have a moral 
obligation to honor our military families, who should never have to 
choose between keeping their jobs and support and meeting the needs of 
their loved ones. As the Chairwoman of the Workforce Protections 
Subcommittee, I believe we can no longer afford to deny these dedicated 
men and women the urgently needed protections included in this bill.

Children are 25 percent of our population but 100 percent of our 
future. I look forward to working with my fellow Members to continue to 
protect the health and well-being of our Nation's most valuable 
resource: its children.