# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `bdbe70e42347c962af70b13a469859a4`
`Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California. I thank the gentlewoman.



Madam Speaker, I join the chairman and ranking member of the 
committee in opposing this resolution.

Sometimes in public debate, we ask the wrong question or we place 
ourselves in the wrong context. I am reminded of a headline that I saw 
not too long ago on a domestic issue. The headline read simply: 
''Prison Population Increases Despite Drop in Crime.'' For those of us 
involved in the criminal justice system, we thought maybe it never 
dawned on the writer that the crime rate was dropping precisely because 
we were putting the bad guys in prison.

Similarly today, this resolution sets an arbitrary deadline for 
troops to leave Afghanistan, and it is a terribly misguided reading of 
the facts we face today. Our troops are succeeding. No one questions 
that. Our allies are helping us. Why then would we handicap them today 
with such a terrible message from our Congress? The message is, despite 
what you are doing on the ground, despite your successes, we are going 
to pull you out with an arbitrary date. What could be more 
demoralizing? What could be more wrong?

Madam Speaker, this resolution, unfortunately, is the wrong question. 
It sends the wrong message. It is being sent at precisely the wrong 
time.

I hope that we have a strong vote against this resolution so that our 
troops will have an unquestioned message of support from us that we 
recognize what they are doing, that we follow what they are doing, that 
we support what they are doing, and that we rejoice in their victorious 
work today and in the days ahead.

