---
---

# ARMED FORCES DAY
## `bdc4b5571e8f7a6e9629798600ef3f17`
`Mr. BROWN — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, tomorrow we celebrate Armed Forces Day. 
Communities across my State, from Van Wert to St. Clairsville, from 
Sandusky to Ironton, will pause to honor the service and sacrifice of 
the men and women in all branches of the military service as they and 
we celebrate Armed Forces Day.

I have held close to 100 roundtables around my State where, in many 
of them, I had the opportunity to speak with dozens of these honorable 
man and women. Those conversations reinforced my profound respect for 
their unstinting bravery, their unshakable sense of duty, and their 
unwavering commitment to our national security.

Not long ago, at Walter Reed I visited two Ohio marines recovering 
from wounds suffered in Iraq. I asked each of them what was the first 
thing they thought about when they realized they were wounded. Both 
marines, independently of one another, said: ''Can I stay in the 
Marines.'' That simple statement speaks volumes about our men and women 
in uniform.

Armed Forces Day is an opportunity to honor our troops, an 
opportunity to honor the sacrifices they and, equally importantly, 
their families have made to protect our Nation, and an opportunity to 
honor the promises our Nation has made to repay their services and 
sacrifices. That is so important. We are stewards of those promises. We 
have a responsibility to work every day, against opposition sometimes, 
to ensure that our Armed Forces receive the wages and benefits and 
services they have earned. Honoring our troops should be more than 
sentiment. It should be action. When we make promises to our troops, we 
should keep them. They most certainly have kept their promises to us.

I yield the floor.