# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `bdc75a50a890db92e1acef2da050aa93`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Thank you, Congressman Hunter, for your 
leadership for our troops and for your son's service in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of our men and women serving in 
the United States Armed Forces and in opposition to House Concurrent 
Resolution 63, a resolution that claims to support the troops but 
opposes reinforcements. To truly support our troops, we must provide 
the equipment and sufficient personnel requested by their commander, 
General David Petraeus.

I believe that we must triumph in the global war on terrorism, that 
victory in Iraq is the only option, and that America's survival is at 
stake. My convictions are deeply derived from personal experience and 
from historical perspective.

My concerns have been developed as a member of the Armed Services 
Committee, through which I have visited Iraq six times, as a 31-year 
veteran of the Army Reserves and Army National Guard, and as the proud 
parent of an Iraq veteran.

Less than a year after the war in Iraq began, my eldest son, Captain 
Alan Wilson, was deployed across Iraq, where he served honorably for 1 
year. Alan worked for young girls to be able to attend schools. He has 
been a trusted military advisor to me regarding life on the front lines 
in Iraq. Alan today continues to serve in the South Carolina Army 
National Guard.

In addition to Alan, my younger three sons are also in the military. 
My wife Roxanne and I appreciate their dedication to protecting 
American families.

The decision to support continued efforts in Iraq is not one I made 
lightly. In the end, however, it is the only viable solution. Retreat 
is not an option.


Defeat is not an option. There is no end but victory.

I was truly transformed by September 11th, and I live with its 
ramifications every day. I sincerely believe we are faced with fighting 
the terrorists overseas today, or we will face them in the streets of 
America tomorrow.

The attacks of September 11th were not isolated, random events. Our 
enemy is highly intelligent, well financed, and committed to the 
destruction of our freedoms.

Terrorists have declared war on the American people. We have a choice 
of opposing them overseas or fighting them again here in America. The 
concept that America's retreat in Iraq will bring an end to sectarian 
violence and terrorist activity in the region ignores history. 
Premature retreat will embolden the enemy and make us more vulnerable 
to attacks.



We have seen it happen before. Withdrawals from Beirut and Mogadishu 
led to the 1993 World Trade Center attack, the 1998 embassy bombings 
across Africa, the 2000 bombings of the USS Cole and ultimately 
September 11, 2001.

Al Qaeda has openly stated Iraq is the central front in the war on 
terrorism. Osama bin Laden himself has said, ''The issue is big and the 
misfortune is momentous. The most important and serious issue today for 
the whole world is this third world war. I say to you that the war will 
be won either by us or by you. If it's the former, loss and disgrace 
will be your lot for all eternity, and, Allah be praised, this is the 
way the wind is blowing. If it is the latter, you should read the 
history books. We are a nation that does not remain silent over 
injustice, and we will seek blood vengeance all lifelong. Not many days 
and nights will pass before we take blood vengeance, like we did on 9/
11,'' end of quote of Osama bin Laden.

We ignore bin Laden's words to the peril of American families.

All of this is not to say that Members of Congress do not have an 
obligation to question foreign policy. As elected public officials, it 
is our duty to do so. If by conscience one disagrees with our 
direction, he or she has a responsibility to put forth an alternative 
plan.

An alternative plan, however, is not what we are debating today. 
Instead, the Democrat leadership has put aside 36 hours of debate for a 
resolution that provides no substantive solutions.

Our men and women in uniform deserve better. Their families deserve 
better. These men and women deserve to know that America supports them, 
that Congress will provide requested equipment and personnel, and that 
we are all committed to their victory.

There is no magic bullet, no cure-all pill, but the fact remains that 
we must endure. The stakes are too high, the consequences of defeat too 
catastrophic. As men and women elected to represent our constituencies 
and provide for their well-being, it is our responsibility to look out 
for the safety of American families.

In conclusion, God bless our troops. We will never forget September 
11. Our thoughts and prayers are with the late Congressman Charlie 
Norwood, his wife, Gloria, his family, his staff and his constituents.