# None
## `bdce83e2fcacc160d378dbb053ba6744`
`Mr. LEVIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, tomorrow's vote in the Senate is not a 
vote on the Levin-Reed amendment. It is a vote on whether the Senate 
will allow us to vote on the Levin-Reed amendment. It is a vote on 
whether the Senate will break a filibuster so that the Senate can 
express its will, which I think is totally clear and reflects the will 
of the American people as expressed last November.

A change in course in Iraq is critical for our national security. If 
you think the present course is working, if you think we are making 
progress, as the President has said month after month, year after year, 
then presumably you are going to vote against the Levin-Reed 
amendment--if we can ever get to a vote on the Levin-Reed amendment. 
But if you believe that changing course is the only hope of success in 
Iraq, that forcing the political leaders of Iraq to accept 
responsibility for their nation and to work out the political 
settlements that could prevent this violence from continuing and lead 
to the ultimate success in Iraq, and if we can get to the Levin-Reed 
amendment and break the filibuster, then you will be voting yes.

Madam President, it has been more than 4 years since the United 
States invaded Iraq. Despite a military victory that toppled Saddam 
Hussein and routed his army, Iraq soon became victim to a Sunni 
insurgency, to Shiite militias bent on revenge, and became victim to an 
incursion of al-Qaida terrorists whose actions were aimed and are aimed 
at promoting an Iraqi civil war.

As the situation on the ground has shifted, so has President Bush's 
rationale for our involvement. He took us into Iraq to get rid of 
Saddam Hussein and his weapons of mass destruction. When no weapons of 
mass destruction were found, the President said we needed to create a 
democracy in Iraq. Now the President says we must stay on to fight al-
Qaida.

The President had a pre-surge strategy, a surge strategy, and now he 
has offered a post-surge strategy. What has remained constant in all of 
these strategies is one thing: They all have an open-ended commitment 
of U.S. forces in the middle of Iraq's civil war.

That open-ended commitment of a Muslim country by the West has played 
right into the hands of al-Qaida. Indeed, the intelligence community is 
recently reported to have concluded that the years of our occupation of 
Iraq have seen a surge of al-Qaida in Iraq.

It has come at a staggering cost--the loss of more than 3,600 of 
America's best and bravest, seven times that many wounded, and a price 
of $10 billion each month. In spite of the heroic efforts of the U.S. 
service men and women, chaos and destruction have deepened in Iraq.

Yet, month after month, year after year, the President has touted 
progress in Iraq and called for patience. It has been a litany of 
delusion. Just listen to President Bush's repeated claims of progress.

In October of 2003, President Bush said:




 We are making progress about improving the lives of the 


 people there in Iraq.


On September 25, 2004, the President said:




 We're making steady progress in implementing our five-step 


 plan toward the goal we all want: completing the mission so 


 that Iraq is stable and self-governing, and American troops 


 can come home. . . .


On April 28, 2005, the President said:




 I believe we're really making progress in Iraq. . . .


On October 28, 2005, the President said:




 Iraq has made incredible political progress. . . .


On November 14, 2005, the President said:




 Iraqis are making inspiring progress toward building a 


 democracy.


On May 25, 2006, the President said:




 We are making progress on all fronts.


On March 19, 2007, the President said:




 There has been good progress.


The exaggeration and the hype continues to this day. On June 28, a 
few weeks ago, the White House press release stated:







 The Iraqi security forces are growing in number, becoming 


 more capable, and coming closer to the day when they can 


 assume responsibility for defending their own country.


But in the benchmark assessment report released last week we read:




 There has been a slight reduction in units assessed as 


 capable of independent operations since January 2007.


That is referring to Iraqi units. Even that turned out to be an 
exaggeration. Just 2 days later, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, General Peter Pace, told the press that the number of Iraqi Army 
brigades that were capable of independent operations had fallen from 10 
to 6--quite a difference from a ''slight reduction.''

Madam President, one merely has to take note of recent incidents in 
Iraq as reported in our newspapers to know that things are not going 
well in Iraq and that the administration's assessments of progress have 
been consistently overblown through the years and continue to be 
overblown.

Consider the headline in USA Today on July 12: ''Iraqi police assist 
gunmen.'' The story described our Army investigation into a January 
attack in Karbala that killed five U.S. soldiers. Our investigation 
concluded that the Iraqi police who were supposed to be partners with 
American troops colluded with insurgents.

Then there was this story in the New York Times on July 14: ''U.S. 
Troops Battle Iraqi Police in East Baghdad.'' Those are the police who 
are supposed to be on our side trying to quell the violence in Baghdad, 
not attacking American troops.

On the all-important area of political benchmarks, consider this 
headline from the Financial Times of June 18: ''U.S. Military 
Frustrated at Lack of Iraqi Reconciliation.'' The story reports that 
General Petraeus said there has not been any ''real substantial 
achievements in terms of political reform in progress.''

Reuters reported on June 18 that Iraq was ranked the second most 
unstable country in the world behind Sudan in the 2007 Failed States 
Index, produced by Foreign Policy magazine. Failed state? Obviously, we 
don't want Iraq to be left as a failed state. It is failing. It is on a 
failing course. If we don't change that course, it is going to continue 
to descend into that failed status.

The administration's recent self-assessment of benchmarks that there 
is progress on 8 of the 18 benchmarks would have us believe that the 
cup in Iraq is half full rather than being half empty. Eight of 
eighteen--that sounds pretty good, like progress. But as a matter of 
fact, Iraq is a cup with a hole in its bottom. We keep pouring in our 
men and women and resources, and there is a hole in the bottom of that 
cup through which they go.

It is that Iraqi hole that Secretary Gates addressed on June 14 in 
Baghdad when he said the message he was delivering to the Iraqi people 
was that ''our troops are buying them time to pursue reconciliation and 
that, frankly, we are disappointed in the progress thus far.'' 
Secretary Gates was accurate in saying that ''our troops are buying 
[the Iraqis] time to pursue reconciliation.'' But what he left unsaid 
is that our troops and our Nation have paid, and continue to pay, far 
too high a price to give the Iraqis that opportunity, and the time is 
long past due for the Iraqi political leaders to accept responsibility 
for their own future.

Secretary Gates' statement that we are ''disappointed in the 
progress'' was surely an immense understatement. The American people 
are downright incensed at the failure of the Iraqi leaders.

Everybody agrees there is no military solution in Iraq and that the 
only way to end the violence is for the Iraqi political leaders to 
settle their differences. Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 
acknowledged that last November when he said--and these words should be 
seared, I believe, into the consciousness of each of us as we vote, if 
we are ever allowed to vote on the Levin-Reed amendment. Here is what 
he said:




 The crisis is political, and the ones who can stop the 


 cycle of . . . bloodletting of innocents are the [Iraqi] 


 politicians.


Our service men and women are dying and being wounded while Iraqi 
leaders dawdle. The Iraqis themselves made commitments to share 
resources and power, amend their constitution, hold provincial 
elections, and take over responsibility for their own security in many 
more places than they have. They made the commitments last year in 
writing, but they have not kept them.

Secretary of State Rice recently confirmed in a letter to me that 
Iraqi leaders themselves, including their Presidency Council, had 
approved those benchmarks and the associated timeline. Secretary Rice 
wrote me:




 We have confirmed with Iraqi President Talabani's chief of 


 staff that the benchmarks were formally approved last fall by 


 the Iraqi political committee on national security. This 


 committee includes the presidency council, the President, and 


 the two vice presidents, as well as the leaders of all the 


 major political blocs in Iraq.


Well, the Iraqi leaders' record on meeting the political timelines, 
which they approved themselves with a timeline, is abysmal.

For example, they said they would approve provincial elections and 
set a date for those elections by October of 2006. That has not been 
accomplished. They didn't do what they promised they would do.

The Iraqi political leaders said they would approve the hydrocarbon 
law by October 2006. That was not done. That has not been accomplished. 
They didn't do what they said they would do. The Iraqi leaders said 
they would approve a debaathification law by November 2006. They didn't 
do what they promised to do. The Iraqi political leaders said the 
Constitutional Review Committee would complete its work by January 2007 
and hold a constitutional amendment referendum by March of this year. 
They did not do what they promised they would do.

This is not us imposing our benchmarks on them, this is the Iraqi 
political leaders who adopted their benchmarks, and have not met them.

I ask unanimous consent that my letter to Secretary Rice and her 
response be printed in the Record at the conclusion of my remarks.