---
---

# ADVANCING AMERICA'S PRIORITIES ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `bdd2a6370444ed84b9b0e4234045e6da`
`Mr. LEAHY — 28 July 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. Presient, last week, I joined the majority leader in 
introducing S. 3297, the Advancing America's Priorities Act. The 
majority leader selected three dozen legislative items from the 
jurisdiction of seven Senate committees, including eight Judiciary 
Committee bills, for this effort. These are all measures with 
bipartisan support and, we believe, the support of a strong bipartisan 
majority of the Senate. I have moved several such bills through the 
Judiciary Committee only to be stymied by objection once on the Senate 
calendar. All of the Judiciary bills have already passed the House with 
overwhelming support. Each of these bills has the support of all 
Democratic Senators. Each has been stalled on the Senate floor by 
Republican objection. I hope that all Senators will now join us to 
support this important effort and finally pass legislation helpful to 
the American people that should have passed long ago by unanimous 
consent.

After more than 7 years of failed policies from the Bush 
administration, the American people are suffering. Americans are 
feeling the effects of a very real recession which has left them with 
fewer jobs and record high prices. People are rightly worried about 
keeping their communities and their children safe from crime as well as 
terrorism.

Americans are looking to us in Congress to work to solve these vexing 
problems. We had an opportunity in this Congress to come together 
across party lines to do the work of the American people. Instead, 
regrettably some have chosen to obstruct our progress and stand in the 
way of legislation designed to help hard working Americans.

The Judiciary Committee has worked throughout this Congress to 
advance the priorities of Americans. We have reported legislation to 
support local law enforcement to make our cities and towns safe from 
crime that has now gone back up after consistent declines, to protect 
our children from exploitation and poverty, to ensure the civil rights 
and voting rights of Americans, to combat fraud and corruption, and to 
keep us secure without sacrificing our values.

Many pieces of legislation with broad bipartisan support that we have 
managed to move through the Judiciary Committee have then stalled on 
the Senate floor due to obstruction. The majority leader has been 
forced to resort to extraordinary measures to try to pass these bills, 
which should have sailed through without opposition. Some of these 
bills, including several important pieces of legislation that have been 
reported from the Judiciary Committee this Congress, have been 
incorporated by the majority leader into the Advancing America's 
Priorities Act. Congress should promptly pass this important 
legislation, which will help the American people.

One key bill in this package is the reauthorization of the Runaway 
and Homeless Youth Act. It is astonishing that in the richest country 
in the world, millions of our young people face homelessness and the 
many dangers of life on the streets.

When the Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing on this issue in 
April, we heard from Mark Redmond and Michael Hutchins of Spectrum 
Youth and Family Services in Burlington, VT. They told us how much the 
act is needed to help young people in Vermont and around the country. 
Mr. Hutchins had been homeless himself as a young person and saw first 
hand how the programs this act funds


can help children turn their lives around and give back to their 
communities.

I also held a hearing in Rutland, VT, this winter on crime in small 
cities and towns, which emphasized the need for programs to help young 
people in difficult circumstances. The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act 
reauthorization will double the funding states like Vermont are 
guaranteed to receive for programs to benefit runaway and homeless 
young people. This bill will help our young people, and we should pass 
it right away.

Another important piece of legislation included in this package is 
the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act, which I have been 
working with Senator Dodd, Congressman Lewis, and others to pass for 
years. In 1955, the brutal murder of a 14-year-old African-American 
teenager named Emmett Till stirred the conscience of our country. 
Unfortunately, no one has ever been punished for this tragic and brutal 
murder. Last week, I met Simeon Wright, Emmett Till's cousin, who was 
with Mr. Till on the horrible night he was kidnapped. We must share Mr. 
Wright's commitment to fighting for justice after so many years.

The Till bill would help law enforcement to finally track down those 
whose violent acts during a period of national turmoil remain 
unpunished. Fifty-three years after Emmett Till's murder, his family 
and the families of hundreds of other Americans who lost their lives in 
the fight for equal rights still await justice.

This legislation provides necessary tools for our Federal Government, 
in cooperation with state and local officials, to vigorously 
investigate and prosecute these cases. By passing this legislation, we 
honor Emmett Till and all those who sacrificed their lives advancing 
civil rights. It is disgraceful that it has taken us so long to take 
this basic step to honor their memories and pursue justice too long 
delayed. It is incredible that some continue to obstruct these efforts.

The Advancing America's Priorities Act also includes legislation to 
help law enforcement cope with mentally ill offenders, and to protect 
our children from the scourges of drugs, child pornography, and child 
exploitation.

It seems particularly perverse that legislation meant to protect our 
children and grandchildren from the dangers of the modern world has 
become the subject of partisan obstructionism. This legislative package 
includes the PROTECT Our Children Act, which Senator Biden has 
championed and which would streamline the government's efforts to 
investigate and prevent the exploitation of children. It also includes 
two separate measures that strengthen the laws against the despicable 
practice of child pornography. I have worked hard with many of my 
colleagues to pass these and other child protection bills, and we 
should delay no longer passing them into law. The Effective Child 
Pornography Prosecution Act passed the House 409-0 last November. The 
Enhancing the Effective Prosecution of Child Pornography provision 
passed the House 416-0 last November. The PROTECT Our Children Act 
passed the House 415-2 last November. The Drug Endangered Children Act 
passed the House last September 389-4. All of these bills have been 
cleared by all Democratic Senators, and all are included in the bill 
being brought before the Senate by the majority leader.


Senator Coburn has now introduced a new bill, S. 3344, which combines 
several of the pieces of child protection legislation contained in the 
Advancing America's Priorities Act package and other preexisting 
legislation. Senator Coburn has prevented many of these same bills from 
passing for many months. He has chosen not to work with the majority 
leader on the Advancing America's Priorities Act to secure passage of 
the many important bills contained within it. He has also chosen not to 
work with the sponsors, Democratic and Republican, House and Senate, of 
the child protection bills he has co-opted, and he did not bother to 
attend a Senate Judiciary subcommittee hearing which squarely addressed 
one of those bills.

Instead, he has taken these bills, drafted and introduced by other 
Senators and House members, and without their input or permission, 
combined them and introduced them as his own legislation. Moreover, he 
has combined them in a way that appears calculated to attract 
opposition, and he has included provisions that have not been carefully 
vetted or considered. Where the majority leader has worked with many 
others in the Senate and House to collect important bills with 
bipartisan, bicameral support that can pass into law and increase 
protection for our children, Senator Coburn instead has appropriated 
the work of others in Congress in a way that is unfair and bound to 
fail. That is not legislating. It is more showboating and obstruction. 
We have had too much of those tactics already.

Sadly, obstruction through Republican holds is just one example of 
the ways some have chosen to hamper progress on so many issues in this 
Congress. They have also boycotted meetings to consider legislation, 
used Senate rules to prevent hearings or cut them short, and 
filibustered more than 80 times.

Republicans boycotted the most recent business meeting of the 
Judiciary Committee thereby blocking the committee from obtaining a 
quorum and considering important legislation. At that meeting, the 
committee was to consider a bipartisan juvenile justice bill, which 
reauthorized key programs aimed at making our communities safer and 
keeping our children out of the criminal justice system; bipartisan 
legislation to reauthorize the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims 
Protection Act, which would strengthen our efforts to stop the 
abhorrent practice of human trafficking around the world; and other 
matters.

They have threatened to boycott again this week. That would prevent 
action on the Ronald Reagan Centennial Commission, a resolution to 
honor national historically Black colleges and universities, and other 
important bipartisan measures.

We have seen all manners of obstructionism since the beginning of 
this Congress, with a minority of Republican members using filibuster 
after filibuster to thwart the will of the majority of the Senate from 
doing the business of the American people. Republican filibusters 
prevented Senate majorities from passing the climate change bill; the 
Employee Free Choice Act; the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act; the DC 
Voting Rights Act; the Renewable Fuels, Consumer Protection, and Energy 
Efficiency Act of 2007; the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 
2008; the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008; 
the Consumer-First Energy Act; and the Warm in Winter and Cool in 
Summer Act, to bring much needed relief to poor families who struggle 
to heat and cool their homes in a time of soaring gas prices.

These are critical pieces of legislation to address urgent priorities 
like the energy crisis, the environment, voting rights, health care, 
and fair wages for working men and women. All of them had a support of 
the majority of the Senate. And all were blocked by a minority of 
Republican Senators bent on preventing us from making progress. 
Republicans have now filibustered more than 80 pieces of legislation in 
this Congress. More than 80. We can only imagine what we could have 
accomplished in this Congress with cooperation rather than obstruction.

The list goes on. Republican objection has blocked legislation to 
ensure that law enforcement officers can obtain bulletproof vests, to 
strengthen efforts to investigate and prosecute public corruption, to 
give much needed resources to state and local law enforcement, to break 
the grip of a cartel on oil prices, to prohibit war profiteering, to 
train prosecutors, and to teach children to use the internet safely, 
just to name some of the examples. And those are just examples of 
legislation reported by the Judiciary Committee that has been 
obstructed. Last week I made statements delineating a dozen and a half 
bills in addition to those included by the majority leader in S.3297, 
the Advancing America's Priorities Act. Other committees have similar 
lists.

This long list of priorities unaddressed is even longer if we include 
the many important bills President Bush has vetoed since the beginning 
of this Congress. This list includes legislation to fund stem cell 
research


to fight debilitating and deadly diseases, to extend and expand the 
successful State Children's Health Insurance Program that would have 
provided health insurance to more of the millions of American children 
without it, to set a timetable for bringing American troops home from 
the disastrous war in Iraq, and to ban waterboarding and help restore 
America as a beacon for the rule of law.

This is not about partisan posturing. The American people are 
suffering, and it is time for Congress to start working to make their 
lives better. Time is running short in this Congress. It is past time 
to end the partisan gamesmanship and idiosyncratic objections and make 
progress on behalf of the American people. It is time for us to get to 
work and do what we can to improve the lives of Americans. That is what 
I have been trying to do throughout this Congress. The majority leader, 
with the Advancing America's Priorities Act, has given us a chance to 
take a small but significant step in the right direction. I hope, after 
18 months of unnecessary obstruction, all Senators are finally ready to 
join us in doing the work of the American people.