---
---

# CONDEMNING THE ONGOING PALESTINIAN ROCKET ATTACKS ON ISRAELI CIVILIANS
## `bdd4f8869c2161a28ed37fb9269ee177`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 5 March 2008`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, today I will vote ''Present'' on H. Res. 
951.

Its stated purpose is ''condemning the ongoing Palestinian rocket 
attacks on Israeli civilians and for other purposes.'' Everyone in this 
House, including me, condemns these rocket attacks. If that had been 
all that H. Res. 951 expressed, of course I would vote in favor.

But as so often happens in resolutions that concern matters of 
bipartisan and overwhelming support, vague and ill-considered ''other 
purposes'' were added. The United States needs the cooperation and 
involvement of nations throughout the region, including Syria and Iran, 
if we are to help bring about a stable and lasting peace to Lebanon, 
Iraq, and to help crack down on the very smuggling that is enabling 
these rocket attacks.

The State Department has repeatedly met with representatives of Iran 
and Syria to engage them, and is pursuing difficult diplomatic tracks 
with both countries. I applaud these efforts and recognize the 
difficult job State has. Injecting Congress into this mix, as expressed 
in this Resolution, at this point in time, is not helpful.

By not simply condemning the rocket attacks coming from Gaza and 
declaring our solidarity with the Israeli civilians threatened by them, 
by not simply condemning those in Gaza who are bombarding Israeli 
civilians, but drawing in the governments of Iran and Syria, we could 
diminish our diplomatic course and, at the same time, inflame tensions.

Who does this help? How does this contribute to resolving problems in 
the region? Why did a House vote on what should have been a simple 
statement turn into a complicated effort to add to difficulties with 
Iran and Syria?

I strongly condemn these rocket attacks; let there be no doubt about 
that. At the same time, I strongly support our State Department and its 
efforts to find a path to a lasting peace in the region. Let's not do 
anything that might interfere with that difficult yet vital goal.