---
---

# WALL STREET REFORM AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT OF 2009
## `be035a7358f2c4809ae568c5d93d1ff1`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 10 December 2009`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Madam Chair, I know the gentleman from 
Texas likes to blame everything bad that happened starting on January 
21; there was no Bush recession; there was no deterioration in the war 
in Afghanistan; there was no TARP under Bush, but he's particularly 
trying to do it now because here's what he's doing: He's trying to 
defend an amendment that would give legal immunity to the rating 
agencies. I cannot think of a more counterintuitive and 
counterproductive thing to do.

The gentleman from California--I thought I heard him say--we don't 
want them practicing defensive ratings. Yeah, we do, because they have 
been practicing very offensive ratings. Here are the rating agencies 
that everybody agrees have been a major cause of the problems, and what 
do the Republicans want to do? Protect the poor dears from people suing 
them by a standard of gross negligence so that an investor who relies 
on their judgment has no remedy whatsoever.

Yes, we want the rating agencies to be a lot more careful. We want 
the rating agencies to fear that if they overestimate--here's the 
problem: We have a business model where the rating agencies are paid by 
the people they rate. I wish we could encourage people on the buy side 
to do that. We've certainly encouraged them in any way we can.

But as long as you have rating agencies paid by the people they 
rate--and the only people who would sue them now are the people who 
they rate. So they can only be sued if people thought they were too 
low. There's nobody who has the right to sue them if they thought they 
were too high--and of course we have done that in this bill.

But here's what it comes down to. If you want to protect the rating 
agencies from being legally liable for their gross negligence to hurt 
investors, vote for this amendment.