---
---

# None
## `be116824d8f0c201467c0ea31685d53a`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to come before the 
House once again. I think it's very important to know that we have half 
a week and next week to complete the people's business. We have a lot 
that we are working on right now in the United States, also; 
legislation to redeploy our troops in Iraq, passing a farm bill that 
would help America move forward, to continue to have legislation that 
has already passed this House in the Six in '06 plan that we put forth 
in the first 100 hours of this Congress, getting it through the 
process. We celebrate this week, just yesterday, I believe, the 
increase that started with the minimum wage across the country. 
Americans have a lot to be proud of with this new direction of 
Congress.

As you know, in any democracy, it has to be a bipartisan spirit to 
get the job done on behalf of the American people. We are trying to do 
that in the best way possible.

Our friends on the other side of the aisle, on the Republican side of 
the aisle, in many cases are stutter-stepping and slowing down the 
process, but it's very, very important that their voice is heard in 
this Chamber. I think the days upon days and the hundreds of amendments 
that have been offered here on the floor and that have been voted on is 
evident of how this Democratically controlled House has allowed the 
minority party to be able to have access that only they could celebrate 
in the 110th Congress, which we weren't able to celebrate under the 
109th Congress.

I also want to point out the fact that we have passed over 40-
something major legislation where we have had bipartisan support, and I 
think that's important.

One issue I want to talk about tonight, since our time is limited, of 
the amount of dollars that we are spending in Iraq as we continue to 
try to redeploy our troops. We know the September 15 date is coming up, 
the second report of progress, or a lack thereof, in Iraq will be due. 
Members of the House are going to have to vote on the defense 
appropriations bill shortly thereafter that will set the tone for the 
remainder of the fiscal year.

As you know, we passed off this floor on a bipartisan vote continuing 
an emergency supplemental that would allow 3/1/2/ months of funding for 
the war in Iraq with MRAP tanks and other equipment that the troops 
needed.

I think Members had voted in the affirmative, Members had voted 
against it, both were courageous votes. I think it's time to move in a 
direction of policy. No permanent bases, I understand, will be coming 
up on the floor. We also have other legislation calling for the 
withdrawal of U.S. troops by a certain date. I think that's also 
important and very courageous. I think the debate that is going on in 
the Senate and the House, led by Democrats, are going to help us as we 
move towards the September 15 date.

As you know, and the Members know, I speak quite often on leaving 
politics behind and putting good policy forward, making sure that we 
don't act as Democrats and Republicans politically, I will say that 
again, rather than representing the American people. The American 
people are way ahead of us on this issue of Iraq.

I think it's important as we continue to share the information as we 
get in. This came from the Congressional Research Service. The cost of 
the war in Iraq is rising per year. You see the number in the billions, 
$120 billion per year, per month; $10 billion per week. We are looking 
at looking at $2.3 billion a day. We are looking at $329,000, we are 
looking at, per hour, as you see it relates per hour; the $13 million. 
I think it's important to look at per minute, $228,938 that's there in 
the thousands, and then we have $3,816 per second. I think it's 
important.

I think it's also important we look at those numbers, the cost per 
year, we look at the billions. We are looking at $120 billion per year. 
That can actually pay for 4.7 million EMTs and paramedics. When you 
look at it for a monthly cost at $10 billion, which we are spending in 
Iraq, you can actually provide EMTs or paramedics for your local 
community or for the Nation, 395,000.

When you look at the per-week cost, $2.3 billion, 91,000 EMTs and 
paramedics could be provided for local cities and counties and 
parishes; per day, at $329 million, 13,000; and per hour, $13.7 million 
that's spent that could actually fund 543 new EMTs. I think it's 
important, especially for those cities that are struggling and those 
counties that are struggling and States that are struggling on this 
very issue of how they are going to provide emergency service in their 
local community.

If you look at the cost of the war, could enroll more kids in Head 
Start. I think it's important for us to look at the $120 billion, 16.7 
million kids can go into Head Start; per month at $10 billion, 1.7 
million kids could go into Head Start; per week, $2.3 billion that's 
being spent in Iraq, 320,000 kids could actually be enrolled in Head 
Start where we have a shortage of funding and every kid can't receive 
Head Start opportunities where kids can start early and be healthy, and 
parents can have kids that will be prosperous educationally.



Per day, look at $329 million; 46,000 kids could benefit. And the 
per-hour cost that we are spending in Iraq at 13.7, 2,000 kids could be 
enrolled in the Head Start program.

As we start talking about health care insurance for children, I am 
just looking at these numbers as a member of the Ways and Means 
Committee and I am just thinking of how many kids we can actually do 
good things for and Americans. We just pulled a few of these things.

The cost of Iraq could send more Americans to college. You know the 
numbers by now. As you know, this is the year number at $120 billion, 
and the per-month is $10 billion, the per-week is $2.3 billion, per-day 
is $329 million, and per-hour at $13.7 million.

But look at this side, on the far side here, Mr. Speaker and Members, 
the numbers of students that could be helped: 21 million students in 
the one year that we spend there. So this means 21 million young people 
would have an opportunity to go to college, that is amazing, for what 
we are spending in Iraq right now; 1.7 million students per month can 
receive an education in the United States and make


us competitive, not States competitive with other States, but this 
country competitive with other countries.

I think it is also important if we can tie this chart in with that. I 
think it is also important that 395,000 students can be funded within a 
week of what we spend. I just know that financial aid officers at 
universities and at community colleges and at technical centers 
throughout the country are saying, wow, look at that number; 56,000 
students could be funded per day. 56,000. Think about the kids that are 
paying student loans back that are having to go out and scratch and 
beg, and people that are punched in right now and grandparents and 
parents that have picked up an extra job to put their kids through 
school looking at these numbers as relates to this endless war, as the 
President sees it, in Iraq, we could actually help. And this is almost 
sad when it comes down to per hour. With the $13.7 million that is 
being spent in Iraq per hour, 2,000 students could actually receive an 
education.

I am going to break out from the charts and the numbers. But if you 
look at the foreign-owned debt and you start looking at countries like 
Japan that are holding a great number of our debt at the 644-plus 
million dollars, I think it is important. We owe Japan this money, we 
owe China money, we owe the U.K. money, we owe OPEC countries money 
because of the mismanagement of the Bush administration and the former 
rubber-stamp Republican Congress. Our kids, our young people, our 
country have to compete economically, have to compete as it relates to 
the level of education so that we can have a workforce that is better 
than the countries that we have borrowed money from, and I am not proud 
of that at all.

Just to tie in that chart, and I will get back to that Iraq issue, 
this is what is happening here. You have seen this chart before. We 
have updated this chart. Since President Bush has been in office, it 
has doubled the foreign-held debt.

It took 42 Presidents 224 years to build up $1 trillion in foreign-
held debt. If you look, you have the pictures of the Presidents here, 
we are talking World War I, World War II, the Great Depression, you 
name it, a number of other wars that took place, the Civil War, and all 
of the conflicts that took place, and the hard financial times that the 
United States has gone through, these 42 Presidents combined, $1.01 
trillion. President Bush was elected, had a rubber-stamp Republican 
Congress, and they borrowed within 6 years, we are saying 6 years, more 
than 224 years of history and other financial challenges of the 
country, $1.19 trillion. We are moving, Mr. Speaker, into a pay-as-you-
go effort to be able to knock that down, and we are passing budgets 
that will get us back into.

Back to the cost of Iraq. And me being a former State trooper, Mr. 
Speaker and Members, I think this is important. Look, we know by now 
and we can see because I have said it about five times, the per-year, 
the per-month, the per-day, and the per-hour costs of the war in Iraq.

The per year at $120 billion, we can actually hire in this country 
2.6 million police officers that could be community police officers to 
prevent crime, that could be officers that can enforce the law in high-
crime areas, officers that can go out and do the things that they need 
to do to make this country safer. In one month that it costs us in 
Iraq, 221,000 officers could be hired. In one week in Iraq, 51,000 
officers.

I am talking about folks that are in local communities that are 
literally under lockdown in urban and rural areas in the United States 
that are trying to protect their families and maybe have one or two 
State troopers in an entire county or State police officer in a parish 
or in an urban area. I represent down in Miami where you can go for a 
little while before you see a law enforcement officer. And to learn in 
one day that you can hire 7,000 police officers that it costs in Iraq, 
for the lack of the COPS bill that has been destroyed under the Bush 
administration and the past Republican Congress, that we are pushing in 
our past appropriations bills that we have passed thus far to rekindle 
that program so that we can have community policing, something that 
sheriffs, something that city police chiefs, something that local 
communities enjoy, because they prevent crime before it happens. And 
the per-hour cost, $3.7 million in Iraq per hour, could fund 304 police 
officers.

Now, Mr. Speaker, it takes a lot of courage, it takes a lot of 
backbone to come to this floor to make sure that we do what the 
American people have asked us to do in making sure that we provide 
opportunities for local communities to fund the necessary needs that 
they have.

Mr. Speaker, I yield to the distinguished Member from Florida (Mr. 
Hastings).