---
---

# HONORING 139TH AIRLIFT WING
## `be1bd6936d9ce6238a7d43bc38a2583f`
`Mr. JONES — 2 March 2010`

---


Mr. JONES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise in support of House Resolution 699, which recognizes the 
service and sacrifice of the members of the 139th Airlift Wing, 
Missouri Air National Guard. I want to commend my friend Sam Graves of 
Missouri for sponsoring this legislation.

The 139th Airlift Wing is a remarkably diverse and capable unit. For 
example, one of its major subordinate units is the Advanced Airlift 
Tactics Training Center. That unit exemplifies the total force concept 
because its members come not only from the Air National Guard but also 
from the Air Force Reserve and the active Air Force. They provide 
advanced tactical training to improve the effectiveness and suitability 
of airlift crews from all components of the Air Force--the Special 
Operations Command, the Marine Corps, and 15 allied nations.

Members of the wing have deployed in support of operations in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, to include providing the security element for a 
Missouri agribusiness development team that returned last fall from a 
year-long mission in Afghanistan. The success of the 139th Airlift Wing 
is directly related to the dedication, sacrifice, and professionalism 
of the nearly 2,500 civilian and military personnel who carry out the 
unit's missions. Their efforts deserve our recognition and thanks. For 
that reason, I urge all Members to support this resolution.


Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. 
Graves) who introduced this resolution.