# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `be35b0f7b2284fb42a12436c2be85102`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Washington — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Washington. Madam Speaker, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 contains provisions that are 
important to our troops serving abroad, to our national security and to 
my constituents in central Washington. It authorizes more funding for 
force protection, including over $4 billion for vehicles designed to 
protect our troops from improvised explosive devices, or IEDs, in Iraq.

This legislation includes the Wounded Warrior Act, which passed the 
House earlier this year, that would help address the challenges that 
face our recovering servicemembers and families. This bill also extends 
the language enacted last year to prevent TRICARE copay increases.

In addition to providing the authorization levels that our 
servicemembers need, I am pleased that the language was included that 
emphasizes congressional support for the National Nuclear Security 
Administration's role in the 300 Area transition at the Hanford Nuclear 
Reservation in my district and specifically at the Pacific Northwest 
National Laboratory.

The National Nuclear Security Administration, the Department of 
Energy Office of Science and the Department of Homeland Security all 
signed a memorandum of understanding last year agreeing to funding 
commitments for this very important transition.



The committee has been helpful on this issue in the past, and I 
appreciate its continued support in Pacific Northwest National 
Laboratory's 300 Area


transition. A successful transition at the lab will make it possible 
for nearly 1,000 scientists to continue their work and allow key 
national security related missions to continue.

Another issue that is an issue of great importance is the ongoing 
cleanup of the Department of Energy's Hanford nuclear site, which is a 
legacy going back to World War II. I am pleased this committee, like in 
recent years, has supported my request to authorize the full $690 
million needed for the waste treatment plant next year.

Construction of the waste treatment plan is a critical effort to 
clean up some of our Nation's most dangerous legacy nuclear waste. I am 
pleased this legislation recognizes the importance of this project.

In addition to authorizing the funding needed for cleanup at Hanford, 
I am pleased that we are working to address the concerns of Department 
of Energy nuclear site workers who suffered health effects from their 
work at government sites. This bill includes language similar to a bill 
I recently cosponsored that extends and increases the scope of the 
Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Ombudsman's 
Office so that it is still better to assist workers seeking 
compensation.

The Ombudsman's Office assists workers who have filed for 
compensation under this compensation program. These workers, Madam 
Speaker, played a vital role in our Nation's defense during the hot war 
and the Cold War. If it is found that their illness has been caused by 
their work, they deserve just and prompt compensation.

I am also pleased that funding is authorized to upgrade and expand 
the training range at the Yakima Training Center in my district. $29 
million will be used to increase the size of the training space, allow 
for urban operation training, and support the digital systems used by 
today's Stryker forces. The new range is expected to be completed by 
August 2009, and will provide critical training for our active duty and 
Reserve Army soldiers.

Madam Speaker, while H.R. 1585 is a good bill, it is not a perfect 
bill. This bill cuts nearly $800 million in funding for a robust, 
layered ballistic missile defense system capable of intercepting 
missiles at all stages of flight. Despite recent missile tests in North 
Korea and the intelligence community's belief that within the next 
decade Iran will have missiles capable of reaching the United States, 
the Democrat majority of the House Armed Services Committee rejected a 
proposal to restore more than $764 million to the Missile Defense 
Agency's budget. I don't believe now is the time to slow down the 
development of a strong missile defense system. As ballistic missile 
threats increase, we must be able to develop the capabilities necessary 
to protect ourselves.

This bill also cuts $867 million from the Army's modernization 
program, the Future Combat Systems, which helps keep our Armed Forces 
prepared for future combat scenarios. It is important to find new 
technologies to optimize information flow and combat systems in the 
future, but the severe cuts in this bill puts the modernization of the 
Army in jeopardy. This 1-year cut is greater than cuts in the last 3 
years combined.

Congressman Todd Akin from Missouri, the ranking Republican on the 
House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, put 
forward an amendment to the Rules Committee last night to restore $134 
million for Future Combat Systems. But sadly, his amendment was 
rejected on a party-line vote by the Democrat-controlled Rules 
Committee.

Madam Speaker, a total of 135 amendments were allowed to be submitted 
to the Rules Committee for consideration, and this rule allows for 
consideration of 50 amendments on the floor today. I am deeply troubled 
that for the first time, the first time during my tenure in Congress 
and tenure on the Rules Committee, Members of Congress reported that 
they were actually prohibited, prohibited from submitting an amendment 
to the committee after the deadline.

Specifically, Congressman Akin from Missouri and Congressman Gingrey 
from Georgia attempted to offer second-degree amendments to an 
amendment offered by the gentleman from Maine (Mr. Michaud) concerning 
the morning-after pill.

These types of amendments by definition cannot be drafted until the 
text of the original amendment has been seen, and therefore, it was 
after the announced amendment deadline that each of those two Members, 
Akin and Gingrey, attempted to submit their amendments. But the 
submission, the submission itself was denied by the Democrat majority.

While amendments to amendments are not the norm of the House, Members 
certainly have had the ability to offer such amendments to the Rules 
Committee, or at least they did, Madam Speaker, until this week.

So let me be clear. The Democrat leadership actually denied Members 
of Congress the opportunity to have their amendments presented and then 
denied by the committee because typically amendments that are offered 
late are denied. But they didn't even have the opportunity to submit 
them late.

All Members of Congress are elected to this body and they have the 
duty to represent their constituents through the legislative process. 
The manner in which these Members of Congress were treated was 
unnecessary. Madam Speaker, I certainly hope it never happens again.

I am also disappointed that the Democrat majority has chosen to go 
out of its way to be inconsistent and change the rules and definitions, 
leaving Members of Congress questioning what rules and norms they 
should follow. Democrats on the Rules Committee have chosen to strictly 
enforce the amendment deadline on some occasions, but on others they 
have made amendments in order that were submitted past the deadline. 
They have changed the definition of rules, and for the first time in at 
least a decade they have outright rejected Members of Congress from 
submitting amendments to the Rules Committee for consideration.

Last year, the Speaker and Members of the current majority pledged 
that this Congress would be the most open Congress in history. However, 
on several occasions now the Rules Committee has literally closed the 
door on Members and denied them the opportunity to submit an amendment 
to the committee.

Madam Speaker, I remain optimistic. I tend to have that in my nature. 
But so far, I must say the new Democrat majority, so far their actions 
have spoken much, much louder than their words.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.