---
---

# COMMEMORATING SEPTEMBER 11
## `be3b7e0e16facd62602c9bc5d8caf866`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 14 September 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res 
1610--a resolution expressing the sense of the House of Representatives 
regarding the terrorist attacks launched against the United States on 
Sept. 11, 2001. The legacy of the events of September 11, 2001 still 
resonates today. We will never forget the harrowing experience of the 
loss of more than 3,000 lives that marked this national tragedy. We 
will never forget the events of that day, nor those who paid the 
ultimate price. We will forever remember how the country suffered 
profound sadness, the likes of which we as a nation hope to never 
experience again.

Madam Speaker, I recall vividly the intense emotions evoked as the 
attacks unfolded. The nation watched in horror as two airliners crashed 
into the Twin Towers and brought down the World Trade Center. That 
horror intensified as we witnessed an attack on the Pentagon, and a 
crashed airplane in Pennsylvania. Horror turned to anger as it came to 
light that the attacks were the actions of hate-filled cowards who had 
no respect for human life. I remember too, that in the aftermath of 
these senseless attacks, we came together as a nation and with friends 
from around the world united in grief and sadness. That moment 
transformed our country and the world, as the resolve of our nation 
strengthened and our principles hardened.

We remember the heroes from that day; those who ran into the danger, 
sacrificing themselves to save strangers. They were the brave 
firefighters, police officers, and civil servants who died in the 
service of protecting others. We remember the heroes from United Flight 
93 who overpowered the terrorists and gave their own lives to prevent 
the deaths of countless others. We hope that their families can take 
some small measure of comfort knowing that Americans have made a 
permanent place for those heroes in our hearts.

In Houston, we mourned the loss of two of our own: Naval Petty 
Officer 3rd Class Daniel Martin Caballero and Army Lieutenant Colonel 
Karen Wagner. Twenty-one-year-old Petty Officer Caballero was an 
electronics technician who had a bright life ahead of him. Forty-year-
old Lt. Col. Wagner had a distinguished career as a medical personnel 
officer in the office of the Army surgeon general. Both lives were 
taken when United Flight 77 was steered into the Pentagon.


Madam Speaker, I ask that we also pay tribute today to those who have 
fought the wars borne from September 11th. In the years since that 
tragic day, our country has fought ardently to eliminate the enemies 
who would work to perpetuate the culture of fear and violence borne 
from 9/11.

In Afghanistan and Iraq, our Armed Forces demonstrate that a resolved 
and determined America will always prevail. The men and women of the 
U.S. military prove daily that their commitment to protecting and 
defending our country is steadfast. Let us remember those who fought 
and died while serving the country, let us honor those who continue to 
fight, and let us pledge our unending support for our soldiers and 
their families.

As Chairwoman of the Homeland Security Transportation Security and 
Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee and a Senior Member of the 
Foreign Affairs and Judiciary Committees, I believe that we must 
continue to honor the fallen by working to prevent needless deaths. In 
the years since September 11, 2001, Congress has worked hard to make 
sure that such a tragedy will never happen again. In large part, we 
have taken heed of the advice of the 9/11 Commission and built a strong 
system to prevent future attacks.

Madam Speaker, I rise before this body to say that our work is not 
yet done. Domestic terrorism is alive. Last year we witnessed both the 
Time Square and the Christmas Day failed terrorist attempt at Detroit-
bound Flight 253. We must not let another tragedy occur.

Preventing terrorism at home begins with addressing terrorism abroad. 
We must engage nations that are susceptible to the influence of 
extremists and arm them with the tools to fight radicalism. That means 
not only providing weapons of war but also increasing education, 
improving living conditions, and increasing the capacity to govern. The 
struggle against terrorism will be won in the hearts and minds of 
people around the world.

Madam Speaker, I urge all members to join me in supporting H. Res. 
1610. Let us remember this day and the tragedy that befell the nation 
by properly honoring the victims with our renewed commitment to 
America's security.