# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `be54e485546da4234d89c720a598ffb5`
`Mr. McKEON â€” 24 June 2009`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, as legislators, we meet once again to address the wide 
range of important national security issues undertaken by the 
Departments of Defense and Energy.

We all take our legislative responsibilities very seriously. This is 
especially true during a time of war, and it is always true of my good 
friend and colleague, Armed Services Committee chairman Ike Skelton.

I would be remiss, Mr. Chairman, without saying a word about the 
outgoing ranking member, John McHugh. I know we all agree that this 
committee, this Congress, and the 23rd District of New York will all 
miss the leadership of John McHugh. I look forward to speaking more 
about John later in our debate.

As a result of Chairman Skelton's tireless efforts to put forward 
this bill, our committee reported out the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 last Wednesday. The vote was 
unanimous, 61-0.

Consistent with the longstanding bipartisan practice of the Armed 
Services Committee, this bill reflects our committee's continued strong 
support for the brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces.

This legislation acknowledges that the United States has a vital 
national security interest in ensuring that Afghanistan does not once 
again become a safe haven for terrorists, supports a comprehensive 
counterinsurgency strategy that is adequately resourced and funded by 
Congress, and calls on the President to provide our U.S. military 
commanders with the military forces they require in order to succeed.

In Iraq, the committee ensures the Congress will support the 
President's plan to redeploy combat forces while providing our 
commanders on the ground the flexibility to hold hard-fought security 
gains and ensure the safety of our forces.

Mr. Chairman, we owe our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines the 
very best available equipment, training and support in order to provide 
them with the best possible tools to undertake their missions and 
return safely. The provisions that are already in this bill go a 
considerable way in demonstrating this support, but we can, and should, 
improve it.

Congress, and particularly the Armed Services Committees in both 
Chambers, has the unmistakable obligation to ensure that the Department 
of Defense develops and deploys defensive capabilities that protect the 
American people, our forward-deployed forces, and our allies. This 
includes promising programs in the areas of missile defense.

In a year where Iran and North Korea have demonstrated the capability 
and intent to pursue long-range ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons 
programs, elements of genuine national security threat, this bill 
endorsed reductions to capabilities that would provide a comprehensive 
missile defense system to protect the U.S. homeland, our forward-
deployed troops, and our allies.

We need to take steps that would reverse the administration's 35 
percent reduction to a critical component of the national missile 
defense system located in Alaska and California, which is designed as a 
last line of defense to protect the U.S. homeland. It's unfortunate 
that we've been forced to trade national missile defense capabilities 
for more theater missile defense. Both are necessary, and both could 
have been adequately funded without such deep cuts.

Building on the Weapons Acquisition Reform bill that the President 
signed in May, this legislation takes a number of important steps on 
major weapons programs. I am pleased that this bill provides $368.8 
million in advance procurement funding for 12 additional F-22s. Keeping 
the F-22 production line open is not only necessary to meet military 
requirements, but also sustains a critical sector of the defense 
industrial base and provides over 95,000 direct and indirect jobs at a 
time when our economy is struggling through a recession.

As a Nation, we owe more than our gratitude to the brave men and 
women in uniform and their families, past and present, for the 
sacrifices they make to protect our freedom. I am pleased that this 
legislation includes a 3.4 percent pay raise, which is half a 
percentage point above the President's request. I commend and thank 
Chairman Skelton for working to address the concurrent receipt in the 
suspension bill addressed earlier today. However, I remain concerned 
that we were not able to fund payments to military surviving spouses by 
repealing the ''widow's tax'' and allowing access to TRICARE for Guard 
and Reserve members who receive earlier retirement. If this is truly to 
be the Year of the Military Family, we must make it a priority to fund 
these programs, too.

One of the few areas where there is disagreement within our committee 
is detainee policy. These are differences that I believe need to be 
debated and given a vote within the full House. As you know, many 
Members believe the American people do not want detainees in Guantanamo 
brought to the sovereign territory of our country. I am disappointed we 
will not debate amendments dealing with the transfer or release of 
detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba into the United States.

Finally, I strongly agree with many Members who believe that Congress 
should do everything possible to ensure that the detainee pictures 
presently subject to the Freedom of Information Act are not released. 
The President and our military commanders determined that these photos, 
if released, would risk the safety of U.S. forces in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Given the overwhelming support for this language in the 
Senate, I regret that we could not address this issue on the House 
floor today.

As in years past, I believe that this legislation reflects many of 
the Armed Services Committee's priorities in supporting our Nation's 
dedicated and courageous servicemembers.

I thank Chairman Skelton for putting together an excellent bill and 
helping us to stay focused on delivering a bill that protects, 
sustains, and builds our forces. I look forward to working with my 
colleagues to improve and pass H.R. 2647.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.