---
---

# IN HONOR OF GEORGE HOWELL
## `be5683dc0a7aaa72010d62cef4102a0f`
`Mr. FARR — 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. FARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a father, husband, and 
soldier who made the ultimate sacrifice in service of the Nation. U.S. 
Army PFC George Howell was from the small rural central California 
community of Prunedale. He was a humble man who devoted his life to his 
family.

George enlisted into the Army in June 2007, and was deployed to Iraq 
in September 2007, where he fought valiantly as an infantry soldier in 
the 10th Mountain Division. He fought not only to give freedom to the 
people of Iraq, but to offer a better life to his family. He was a 
soldier who rose to defend his country and a young father who rose to 
provide for his young children. He dedicated his life so that others 
can live in a future filled with hope.

On December 21, 2007, George was fatally wounded when his unit was 
attacked while on patrol in northern Iraq. He was laid to rest with 
full military honors at Arlington National Cemetery on January 25. 
2008. George was awarded a Purple Heart and the Army Service Ribbon for 
his courageous service. These awards depict the greatness of this fine 
soldier and symbolize the sincere gratitude of this country. Moreover, 
George's life has inspired the lives of others and has united a 
community. This soldier, father, and husband shall he remembered for 
his caring, altruistic life.

Held closest to George's heart is the love and support of his wife. 
and partner, Kristen, and his two young children, Niya, Raiden, and his 
yet to be born child. His dream and lifework was his family, and he 
fought to offer them a life filled with limitless opportunity. In the 
future, his family will experience the dream their father has waiting 
for them.

Madam Speaker, I know that I speak for the whole House in extending 
our deepest sympathies to PFC George Howell's family. While we praise 
his service and sacrifice for his country, we must never forget the 
deep personal tragedy of a wife losing her husband and of children 
losing their father. They are all great American heroes who deserve 
this Nation's recognition, gratitude, and support.
