---
---

# FAREWELL ADDRESS
## `be6e65afb7ea24bf46811ef1931a7404`
`Mrs. CLINTON — 15 January 2009`

---


Mrs. CLINTON. Mr. President, I am once again, and, if confirmed, for 
the last time, honored, privileged, and proud to address you as a 
Senator from the great State of New York; to stand in this Chamber; to 
be amongst my colleagues with whom I have won legislative victories, 
suffered defeats, and made lasting friendships; to serve my fellow New 
Yorkers; to speak amidst the echoes of historic and fiery debates which 
have shaped the destiny and promoted the progress of this great Nation 
for more than two centuries.

And I am gratified by the overwhelming support and vote of confidence 
from my colleagues on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and I look 
forward to working with them and continuing the conversation we began 
on Tuesday. And of course, I am so eager to continue working closely 
with my friend, and the Vice President-elect, Joe Biden.

I have loved being part of the Senate, working alongside public 
servants of both parties who bring to bear their expertise and 
enthusiasm to the difficult, painstaking, and occasionally contentious 
work of turning principle into policy and policy into law. And I assure 
you I will be in frequent consultation and conversation with my 
colleagues here in the Senate.

I also have been so fortunate to have what is, objectively, the best 
Senate staff, both in Washington and in New York that has ever been 
assembled, led and inspired by my Chief of Staff and friend, Tamera 
Luzzatto.

In outlining the purpose of the world's greatest deliberative body, 
the authors of the Federalist Papers wrote that in part the Senate's 
role would be to avert the consequences of ''sudden and violent 
passions'' and ''intemperate and pernicious resolutions.''

Well, I think each of us at times has wished that the Senate would be 
ever so slightly less ''temperate.'' But it is to the lasting credit 
and everlasting wisdom of our Founders that we come together, 
representatives of every State, members of both parties and neither 
party, in the hopes of finding common ground on which to build a 
stronger, safer, smarter, fairer, and more prosperous country for our 
children and our grandchildren.

As I look back on 8 years of service here, and as I have spoken with 
many of you in recent days about the challenges that lie ahead, I find 
myself reflecting on the work we have done as well as the work that 
remains at this moment of tumult and transformation.

I asked the people of New York to take a chance on me. To grant me 
their trust and their votes. In the years since, as our economy has 
grown more interconnected and the world more interdependent, and as New 
York has faced challenges amongst the greatest in our State and 
Nation's history, I have worked hard to keep faith with my fellow New 
Yorkers.

I remember when I first arrived in the Senate. There were a few 
skeptics. Many wondered what kind of Senator I would be. I wondered 
where the elevators were. But I believed my charge on behalf of the 
people of New York and the Nation was to devote myself fully to the 
task at hand. So I got to work.

No sooner had I taken office, 9 short months into my first term, the 
Nation was attacked on 9/11. The toll was devastating and New York 
would bear the heaviest burden. Nearly 3,000 lives were lost. The World 
Trade Center lay in ruins. A toxic cloud of debris and poison rained 
down over first responders, building and construction trades workers, 
residents, students, and others.

We all remember as citizens and Senators the sense of common purpose 
that arose as if to extinguish the hate and violence that took so many 
innocent lives. In particular, I want to point out the many kindnesses 
of my fellow members who offered their words, and deeds, in support of 
the people of New York.

In one moving gesture, Senators sent staff members to help answer the 
ringing phones in our office as New Yorkers struggled to track down 
family members and turned to our offices for help. I am also grateful 
to Senator Robert Byrd who said at my State's hour of need, ''Think of 
me as the third Senator of New York.''

I remember visiting Ground Zero on September 12th with my colleague, 
Senator Schumer, to personally survey the devastation and to thank the 
first responders who were working night and day, in danger and 
difficulty, on what would become known as ''the Pile.''

The air was acrid. Thick smoke made it hard to breath.

We knew then that there would be lasting health problems for first 
responders, volunteers, workers, and others who rushed to provide 
assistance following the attacks.

Two days later, Senator Schumer and I went to the Oval Office and 
secured a commitment from President Bush for $20 billion in Federal aid 
for New York's recovery. In the years that would follow, Senator 
Schumer and I would fight successfully to ensure that money was 
delivered as promised.

In this and every instance, I have been grateful to have had Senator 
Charles Schumer as a partner and ally. New Yorkers could not ask for a 
more effective and determined Senator to fight for them. And I feel 
fortunate that if I miss seeing my friend Chuck, I can turn on the 
television to catch his latest Sunday press conference.

Over the past 7 years, in a fight that continues, we have worked to 
bring business back to downtown and to secure funding for programs to 
provide health screening, monitoring, and treatment for all those 
suffering health consequences as a result of the attacks.

We have at times clashed with the administration while holding firm 
to our commitment to these efforts.

And I have developed close and lasting relationships with many of the 
families of the victims of 9/11 who in their grief have come together 
to fight for health monitoring and for smarter policies to prevent 
future attacks.

Together, we advocated for the creation of the 9/11 Commission and 
for the successful implementation of its findings, including funding 
based on threat assessments and better resources for first responders.

These efforts would become a model for finding common ground where 
possible, and standing your ground where necessary. For coordinating 
between Federal, State and local governments. For forging new 
partnerships between Government, academia, labor, and the private 
sector, and between members of both parties. A model for decisions 
based on sound evidence and solid facts, and for achieving results.

This is how we approached many of the economic challenges facing New 
York. So many New Yorkers have lost jobs, or have seen their jobs 
paying less and their benefits covering less than before.

I have met many who have lost health care or seen their premiums 
double. Who are unable to afford a college education or find good work, 
or pay rising mortgage bills. Who feel as though the hardworking middle 
class in this country experience the risk but not the reward of a 
global economy.

So I have worked hard to help make investments in New York's economy, 
by coauthoring a law to expand renewal zone tax incentives for new jobs 
across upstate New York; helping to raise the minimum wage; working to 
extend unemployment insurance; securing $16.5 billion in transportation


funding; and increasing funds for Amtrak and high speed rail.

We passed legislation to create training programs for green-collar 
jobs that will help New York workers fill 21st century jobs that will 
in turn help end our dependence on foreign oil and fight climate 
change.

And we prevented the closure of military installations and 
facilities, including the Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station, Rome Labs, 
and the Defense Finances and Accounting Service in Rome, which keep our 
Nation safe and employ thousands in New York.

Even when we have faced obstacles, we have never given up. We have 
often promoted what President Franklin Delano Roosevelt called ''bold, 
persistent experimentation.''

We helped expand broadband access across rural areas in the North 
Country.

We secured into law funding to retrofit trucks, school buses and 
other heavy vehicles with new clean diesel technologies developed in 
Corning and Jamestown.

In the Finger Lakes and North Country we partnered with eBay and 
local universities and companies to create 21st century co-ops that 
help small businesses get the micro-loans and training to reach global, 
not just local, markets.

In Rochester, we developed the first-ever Greenprint: a blueprint for 
how the city can harness its research institutions, innovative 
businesses, proactive local leaders, and talented workforce to become 
an even stronger clean energy leader.

We brought Artspace to Buffalo and secured funds for cultural centers 
like Proctors Theater in Schenectady, Stanley theater in Syracuse, and 
the Strand Theater in Plattsburgh, creating a model for urban 
revitalization and economic development centered on cultural projects.

I have worked to promote heritage tourism in places like Seneca 
Falls, home of the National Women's Hall of Fame and the site of the 
landmark Women's Rights Convention of 1848.

New Jobs for New York brought together more than 2,600 entrepreneurs, 
investors, and researchers across New York to obtain capital, share 
ideas, and grow New York businesses.

Farm to Fork created new markets for New York's agricultural 
producers in New York's restaurants, schools, and colleges. And our 
annual Farm Day here in the Capitol showcased New York farmers and 
vintners.

With investments in transportation to ease congestion and pollution 
on Long Island, in Westchester, and in the Hudson Valley, renewable 
energy and nanotechnology in the capital region's ''Tech Valley,'' 
biomedical research in Buffalo, Biotechnology in Syracuse, microcredit 
in the Finger Lakes, we have demonstrated to companies large and small 
that New York, with our talented workforce, world-class educational 
institutions, and affordable, safe communities, is a wonderful place to 
do business. In fact, as you know, I recently took a detour through 
many of my colleagues' States where I had the opportunity to brag about 
New York and the kinds of innovative strategies we are putting into 
practice.

Some 8 years ago, I first spoke on the Senate floor. The topic was, 
to no one's surprise, health care. And in the years since, I have 
continued my commitment to achieving quality, affordable health care 
for all Americans, no exceptions, no excuses. I was proud to be part of 
the bipartisan coalition which passed the ''Pediatric Rule'' into law, 
ensuring that drugs are tested and labeled for safety and effectiveness 
in children.

We have expanded newborn screening. We were able to thwart the Bush 
administration's attempt to undercut community health clinics and 
broker a compromise to keep tens of millions of dollars in HIV/AIDS 
funding in New York through the Ryan White CARE Act.

Because of our work, groundbreaking legislation now provides respite 
care for family caregivers; safety measures to prevent tragic injuries 
to children in and around cars; new resources for grandparents and 
other kinship caregivers raising children; and more affordable college 
for students, particularly nontraditional students who are studying 
while working or raising a family.

I have also been proud to serve on the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, the first New York Senator to do so, and to be the only 
Member of the Senate asked to serve on the U.S. Joint Forces Command's 
Transformation Advisory Group.

With my fellow members of the committee, we have expanded access to 
TRICARE for all drilling members of the Guard and Reserve; improved 
health tracking for servicemembers, especially important in treating 
complex, invisible injuries like post-traumatic stress disorder and 
traumatic brain injury; and we have passed the first ever expansion of 
the Family and Medical Leave Act so loved ones can take 6 months of 
leave to care for family members injured in service.

I have visited with members of the Armed Forces at military 
facilities across the State, including 10 visits to Fort Drum, and I 
have met with our troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as 
those recovering at Walter Reed and at the military hospital in 
Landstuhl, Germany.

From the firefighters, police officers, and citizens who responded on 
September 11, to the men and women of the 10th Mountain Division, known 
as the most deployed division in the army, New Yorkers have answered 
the call to serve. I have worked hard to honor the principle that we 
should serve those who serve us.

I am proud of the progress we have made, often against tough 
obstacles and even tougher odds, under the leadership of Senator Harry 
Reid who has led with intelligence and grit.

But of course there remains a long way to go.

The House has passed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act as well as the 
Paycheck Fairness Act on behalf of women and others seeking equal pay 
for equal work. I hope we can pass these bills into law. We have moved 
Health IT ever closer to the finish line, which holds so much potential 
for reducing waste, errors, and costs while creating whole new data 
sets for research and avenues for innovation.

I was dismayed when we were unable to expand the Children's Health 
Insurance Program to millions of uninsured children under the current 
President, though I am hopeful we will do so under the leadership of 
President-elect Obama. Providing health care for every single child, as 
we work toward coverage for every single American, is in our duty and 
in our reach.

There are so many other works in progress that I hope will be pursued 
by my fellow Senators. And I have spoken with many of you about taking 
on the mantle and continuing the work of legislation I have proposed 
over the past 8 years.

Finally, to my fellow New Yorkers, I want to express my profound 
gratitude. Thank you. I love being your Senator. Serving you has been 
the opportunity of a lifetime to continue the work of my life. To 
advocate on behalf of every single child's chance to live up to his or 
her God- given potential. To fight so that no one feels as though they 
are facing life's challenges alone, as if they were invisible.

And we have had fun. 8 State fairs, 45 parades, 62 counties, and more 
than 4,600 events across the State. But who is counting?

As I look back somewhat wistfully, and look forward hopefully, as I 
seek now to serve the country in a new role sustained by the same 
values that have motivated me for nearly four decades in public 
service, I am grateful to my colleagues in the Senate, to the superb 
Democratic staff, to my own staff here and across New York, to my 
supporters, and to the people of New York for this opportunity and 
responsibility that has meant the world to me.

I may not have always been a New Yorker. But know that I will always 
be one. New York, its spirit and its people, will always be part of me 
and part of the work I do.

I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the 
Senate, albeit if confirmed, in a new capacity, through this 
challenging time, at this defining moment, always with faith in my 
fellow Americans and optimism for all that we can achieve by working 
together.

Mr. President, I am so honored to be here at the same time with my 
friend and colleague whom I admire so much and have such great 
affection for, the Vice President-elect, Joe Biden.

I listened with enthusiasm and a lot of sentiment to the speech he 
delivered


a few minutes ago. And the way he evoked the Senate and the 
relationships that are developed here and the work that is done on 
behalf of our country was as good as I have ever heard it.

So I am deeply honored and privileged to be here with him and to 
address this Chamber as a Senator from the great State of New York, 
perhaps, if I am confirmed, for the very last time, and particularly 
amongst colleagues whom I have come to respect and like so much, and 
whose work I believe is always in the best interests of their States 
and their country, even when we are not in agreement.

I am gratified by the support and vote of confidence I received 
earlier this morning from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. And I 
am eager, should I be confirmed, to get to work with the President-
elect and with the Vice President-elect and with all of you. I have 
loved being in the Senate working alongside public servants of both 
parties who bring their expertise and enthusiasm to the difficult, 
painstaking, and occasionally contentious work of turning principles 
into policy and policy into law.

I also have been fortunate during these past 8 years to have been 
served by what I objectively believe is the best Senate staff ever in 
Washington and throughout New York. This incredible group of people has 
been assembled, led, and inspired by my chief of staff and my friend, 
Tamera Luzzatto. I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
at the conclusion of my remarks the names of all of those with whom I 
have worked over the last 8 years, because I could not be standing here 
speaking to you were it not for them.