# RECOGNIZING THE EXCEPTIONAL SACRIFICE OF THE 69TH INFANTRY REGIMENT,  KNOWN AS THE FIGHTING 69TH
## `be8252e9cf5314c0cf0e6123e1afc952`
`Mr. McINTYRE — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. McINTYRE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might 
consume.

I rise today in support of H. Res. 991 which recognizes the 
exceptional service of the 69th Infantry Regiment known as the Fighting 
69th in support of the conflicts that they have been involved in around 
the world. The 69th Infantry Regiment has a proud and strong history 
dating back to 1851 when it was created as the 69th New York Militia.

The regiment has an Irish heritage because at its inception it was 
made up entirely of Irish Americans. Not only is it to honor for their 
current contributions to this country, but also it is only fitting that 
with the approach of St. Patrick's Day this coming Monday, when we 
honor our country's Irish heritage, it is also equally important to 
recognize that based upon this unit's history and its Irish heritage 
that we recognize this unit at this time.

This unit, while deployed to Iraq as Task Force Wolfhound, secured 
the infamous Route Irish, which was one of the most dangerous roads in 
Baghdad. With that said, the Fighting 69th has now served our Nation in 
five wars and in over 20 campaigns. They are made up of New Yorkers 
from Brooklyn, Queens, Manhattan, the Bronx, Staten Island and Long 
Island. These servicemembers are a tremendous credit to themselves, to 
their country and their unit.

Those individuals who have previously served in the Fighting 69th 
would be proud of those that are currently serving and who are now 
carrying the mantle and battle colors of one of the greatest regiments 
in American history. The actions of the Fighting 69th, both after 9/11, 
to include their assistance and recovery efforts of the World Trade 
Center in New York, and their deployment now to Iraq, show the 
tremendous service and sacrifices this regiment has made, and that 
these servicemembers have individually, and, of course, collectively 
given their country. When the call to serve and fight has come, the 
Fighting 69th continues to answer that call.

I would like to thank my colleague and my friend and fellow member of 
the Blue Dog Coalition, Congressman Steve Israel of New York, who is a 
former member of the House Armed


Services Committee and who now currently serves on the House 
Appropriations Committee and who was also a cochairman of both the 
Center Aisle Caucus and the Democrat Study Group on national security, 
for bringing this resolution to the floor at this time.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.