# None
## `be8803752b6e11b0f29d2a8c424ef655`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, a lot has changed since last December. 
At this time last year, America and its allies were desperate for good 
news out of Iraq. The security situation was dire, and getting worse. 
An all-out civil war threatened to undermine the heroic work of U.S. 
forces and frustrate the hopes of millions of Iraqis.

Then General Petraeus stepped forward with a bold new plan. We 
confirmed General Petraeus unanimously for what seemed like one last 
effort at salvaging the mission. And we sent him the troops and the 
funds he needed to carry out the job.

Since the implementation of the Petraeus plan, the security situation 
in and around Baghdad has changed dramatically. Attacks on troops are 
down. Civilian casualties in Baghdad are down 75 percent. Iraqi 
refugees are streaming back over the borders. Outside the city, the 
local leaders are forging agreements among themselves and with U.S. 
forces to ensure even greater security.

There is simply no question that on the military and tactical levels 
the Petraeus plan has been a tremendous success. So as we stand here 
today, we have new hope that U.S. service men and women are beginning 
to return home with a sense of achievement. A lot has changed in Iraq, 
and here in Washington, we should take notice.

Before us is an amendment sent to us by the House of Representatives 
that underfunds our troops and only provides for those fighting in 
Afghanistan. It leaves the troops in Iraq to fend for themselves. That 
is unacceptable.

What is the difference between funding the troops in Afghanistan and 
funding the troops in Iraq? They are both our troops. Even those of us 
who have disagreed on the war have always agreed on at least one thing, 
and that is the troops in the field will not be left without the 
resources they need.

So the amendment I sent to the desk provides for our men and women in 
uniform in Iraq and Afghanistan because I believe it is our duty to 
protect all of those who are putting their lives on the line. It is 
also important to understand--I hope everybody in the Chamber and 
anybody listening gets this fundamental point: If this amendment does 
not pass, the McConnell-Lieberman amendment does not pass in its 
current form, the underlying bill will not become law. The passage of 
the McConnell-Lieberman proposal is essential to getting a Presidential 
signature on the Omnibus appropriations and Iraq funding.

The Petraeus plan provides for a gradual reduction of our forces and 
a


transition of the mission. Iraqi security forces will eventually shift 
from partnering with coalition forces to leading forces on their own. 
We must not impose an arbitrary timeline for withdrawal or accelerate 
this timeline at an unrealistic pace.

This is a moment of real hope for our Nation and for the people of 
Iraq. It is a moment of real urgency in the Senate. We need to pass the 
spending bill with troop funds without any strings and without further 
delay.



 At the risk of being redundant, the President has made it 


 absolutely clear that to get a Presidential signature, to 


 wrap up this session, having succeeded in passing all of our 


 appropriations bills, will require the passage of the 


 McConnell-Lieberman amendment.

So when we get to that amendment--we will have a couple of votes 
before then, but when we get to that amendment, it is essential. We 
want to complete our work in a way that implements the appropriations 
process as all of us feel it should be implemented on a yearly basis. 
The success of the McConnell-Lieberman amendment is essential.

I yield the floor.