---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `be901e37274d16d4eb974a8ae45b47a6`
`Mr. OBEY — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 5 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, the underlying bill presented to us by the Senate is, 
essentially, a bill to provide funding to continue the war activities 
in Afghanistan. Why, people might ask, are we trying to add this 
amendment to that proposal?

I would suggest the numbers tell the story. With this bill from the 
Senate, we will be spending, in this fiscal year, $167 billion on the 
war in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is obvious to any but the most obtuse 
that that expenditure is killing our ability to finance a recovery of 
our own economy.

We tried to deal with that problem in December with a $90 billion 
economic package. The Senate declined to act on it. We've proposed 
smaller packages on two occasions since then. About a month ago we 
offered a $23 billion package aimed primarily at trying to save 
teachers' jobs, teachers who otherwise are going to be laid off because 
of the severe economic conditions in virtually every State in the 
Union, except a few lucky exceptions like North Dakota and South 
Dakota.

We now bring before the House a bill which reflects what we've been 
asked to do by a great many Members. It attempts to provide a much 
smaller aid package to keep those teachers on the job, about $10 
billion; and it contains a few other small items, including almost $5 
billion in additional Pell Grants funds for some 87,000 students who 
are going to need them badly.

We were also asked to provide offsets, and so we have done that. We 
have offsets for virtually every dollar above the President's request, 
and those offsets are not pleasant, and they are not popular. 
Certainly, I don't like some of them myself. But the fact is that they 
are necessary if we're to provide a fiscally disciplined bill that has 
a chance of getting the votes to pass this House, and that's what we've 
done.

I think people need to ask themselves one question: Are they 
interested in simply standing by and allowing teachers to be fired day 
after day for the next 3 months all around the country, or are they 
willing to do something about it? I hope the answer is the latter.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

