---
---

# None
## `be940d55a01cdf689e17ff2bab9eb2cf`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and thank you 
for yielding back.

Mr. Altmire, this is why we come to work, this is why we, Members of 
Congress, Mr. Speaker, to be able to point out, and I love this whole 
fact versus fiction. You know, this is probably going to be my new top 
ten because I think it's important that we outline these issues. 
Because the American people, hopefully what we are sharing with them, 
it's fact. Now, folks start writing speeches and start saying, well, 
what sounds better or using words like efforts, you know ''efforts'' is 
open-ended.



Well, you know, I make a great effort to do some things around the 
house. But eventually I will get around to them. Well, we are dealing 
with the Federal Treasury, and it is not some sort of slush fund. That 
is the way it has been treated. We are talking about accountability.

I also want to point out Mr. Bob Novak, I don't think I am on his 
Kwanzaa list and he is not on mine, but he is one of the most 
conservative writers here in this town and well-known, and I appreciate 
his work, and we see him moving around on Sunday talk shows.

This is interesting. ''Bush veto strategy.'' This is in the 
Washington Post. Just in case, we like third-party validators. We want 
you to go on, we want Members to be able to go on WashingtonPost.com. 
And this was June 18. It was actually on A-17, if you have an old copy 
of the Washington Post.

I will go down to paragraph three, where it talks about Bush was the 
first President since John Quincy Adams not to exercise his veto power 
during the complete 4-year term, even though the Republican-controlled 
Congress was on a spending spree.

All right, we have heard of shopping sprees. You look in the 
dictionary, let's just do it. Let's do it because we can. Let's do it 
because we can borrow from foreign nations and put this country in a 
posture that it has never been in before.

He has two bills in his second term, rejecting only the Iraq war 
bill, since the Democrats took control.

Let me just say this. One of them was that. Let me just point that 
out, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Altmire. It is important that we 
outline that, that we outline the fact that the President has had a 
rubber-stamp Congress, and that even the conservative writers are 
saying, wait a minute. All of a sudden now you want to be Mr. Veto. You 
want to send a letter to the Speaker of the House saying if you go $1 
over my projected budget and I am going to veto the bill, even if it 
means healthcare for children, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, even if it means 
better healthcare for our veterans that are coming back and that are 
here and that are waiting in line 8 or 9 weeks to see the 
ophthalmologist, which is not what they signed up for and not the 
promise that we gave them. Even if it means that school districts will 
not have the money that they deserve as it relates to the Federal 
dollar.

The bottom line is I wish the President and I wish the Republican 
side had the kind of courage to stand up to corporate America when they 
were giving away all of the taxpayers' money during their spending 
spree. This is now what I am saying. This is what Bob Novak is saying.

I think it is also important to note that one of our Republican 
colleagues took enough time to get 147 votes against the Homeland 
Security bill, an appropriations bill, and also it is important that we 
point this out, because this was done to be able to say that we can 
withstand a veto. I think it is 146 that is needed to make sure that we 
can override the President if we need to override him.

The last point I want to make on this topic, you know I always have a 
number of points, but after we passed the bill that the American people 
wanted, date on redeployment of when troops will be redeployed out of 
the field and letting the Iraqi government know we will not be in the 
middle of a civil war forever and ever and ever, and passed this House 
and it passed the Senate. And before the President could even get to 
it, Republicans marched down to the White House, had lunch, and came 
out and said, ''We stand with the President in not overriding his veto. 
We say that we stand with the President.''

That is what the Republicans said. Not one Democrat was at the White 
House. I want to know how many more times that Republicans are going to 
go down to the White House and stand with the President. Are they going 
to stand in front of VA Healthcare? Are they going to stand in front of 
universal healthcare for children? Are they going to stand in front of 
everything that we came to Congress to do? And I talking about 
Democrats and Republicans?

And I am just going to say it, not every Republican went to the White 
House, but enough to be able to stop us from doing the business of the 
people of this country. And I think it is important that we outline 
these issues. Go to WashingtonPost.com.

There is an old saying out there, if I am lying, I am flying. The 
bottom line is this: It is right here. I didn't write it. Mr. Novak 
wrote it.