---
---

# IN HONOR OF COLONEL KEITH LOVEJOY
## `be9503a5bfe3b4541a8077e0537d599c`
`Mr. BISHOP of Georgia — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor COL Keith 
Lovejoy of the United States Army. Colonel Lovejoy, who is retiring, 
has been the Garrison Commander of Fort Benning in the Second 
Congressional District of Georgia, which I am privileged to represent.

Keith Lovejoy is a native of California. He holds a bachelor of arts 
from Norwich University, and a masters in personnel administration from 
Central Michigan University. He also has completed several intensive 
and challenging military training graduate courses, including one at 
the Army War College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania.

Colonel Lovejoy, who is retiring after a more than 30-year career of 
service to the United States, has held a variety of troop and command 
positions both in the United States and overseas. The bases across the 
country where he has served include Fort Lewis, Washington; Fort Riley, 
Kansas; Fort Polk, Louisiana; Fort Hood, Texas; and now, Fort Benning, 
Georgia.

In between his postings at Army bases, Colonel Lovejoy also taught 
those who also sought to serve. From 1989 through 1993, he served as 
the Assistant Professor of Military Science at the Virginia Military 
Institute in Lexington, Virginia.

Over the years, Colonel Lovejoy has become a very decorated officer. 
He is a recipient of the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star Medal, the 
Meritorious Service Medal, the Medal with seven Oak Leaf Clusters, the 
Forces Expeditionary Medal, the Iraqi Campaign Medal, and the Global 
War on Terrorism Expeditionary and Service Medals. His many awards 
speak for themselves about his commitment to our country.

Colonel Lovejoy is married to the former Carol Jean Barber of 
Columbus, Georgia. They have two children: Justin, a recent graduate of 
Kansas State University and now a First Lieutenant stationed at Fort 
Campbell, Kentucky, and Jessica, currently a student at Auburn 
University.

Through many postings, and many assignments in different places that 
I am certain placed strain on himself and his family, Colonel Lovejoy, 
in every sense, epitomizes the meaning of the phrase ''service above 
self.''



Madam Speaker, it indeed is an honor and a privilege to know this 
great man who not only shows the qualities of a dedicated soldier, but 
also does what is best for his country.
