# COMPREHENSIVE REPORT ON AL-QAIDA
## `be9a03cb4a830bab53bfeb0c856f5e0e`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 26 February 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I am proud to rise in support of Senator 
Feingold's two bills. The first bill requires that the President begin 
the safe redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq within 120 days. There 
is no end date for redeployment. It only starts the redeployment. It 
includes exceptions for missions against al-Qaida, force protection, 
and training. The second bill requires that the administration provide 
to Congress a full report outlining a comprehensive global strategy to 
defeat al-Qaida and its affiliates.

As someone who voted to go get bin Laden after 9/11, I am dismayed 
that this President has turned away from that mission and put so much 
into an ill-fated war in Iraq. Senator Feingold is proposing a policy 
for us that is consistent with common sense and our national security 
because the war in Iraq has not made us safer. It has made us 
vulnerable. The war in Iraq has not reduced the influence of al-Qaida. 
Actually, it has made al-Qaida a hero, unfortunately. It has been seen 
as one of the best recruiting tools of al-Qaida. I want to get al-
Qaida, and that is what Senator Feingold's bills will result in because 
we will refocus our attention on capturing bin Laden and getting al-
Qaida.

We are in a quagmire in Iraq. We are told that quagmire will go on 
indefinitely. I believe it is undermining our national security. It is 
undermining our economic security. When I tell you what it is costing, 
it is a stunning number. It has diverted critical resources from the 
hunt for Osama bin Laden. He has been at large more than 6 years. And 
despite the administration's rhetoric, our own intelligence agencies 
again are telling us that the war in Iraq is proving to be a critical 
recruitment and fundraising tool for the terrorists we want to beat.

We see a toll on our military. We hear phrases such as a ''death 
spiral.'' The Washington Post reported that Army and Marine officials 
refer to the readiness death spiral that senior officers warn puts our 
Nation at risk. Why? Because we lack the strategic reserve of ground 
forces to be able to respond to crises throughout the world. This 
single-minded focus on Iraq and the ever-changing mission there is not 
making us stronger. It is making us weaker. We now see that suicide 
attempts among U.S. troops have reached a record high, a sixfold 
increase since 2002. And while promising junior officers are leaving 
the military at record rates, we hear that the services are lowering 
their standards to meet recruitment goals. They are recruiting 
convicted felons now, people convicted of sex crimes, people convicted 
of making a false terror threat, assault with a deadly weapon. We are 
taking felons into the military. This is wrong for our Nation.

Once upon a time we were told that this Iraq war was about weapons of 
mass destruction that Saddam Hussein was hiding, and it was about also 
Saddam's ties to al-Qaida. Our military did its job. They found out 
there weren't weapons of mass destruction, and our intelligence people 
did their job. They said there were no al-Qaida cells in Iraq at the 
time of 9/11.

Then we were told the war was about getting rid of Saddam and 
liberating Iraq from that brutal tyrant. Our military did that. Then we 
were told the war was about holding elections and promoting democracy. 
You remember President Bush in his flight suit with big words ''mission 
accomplished.'' Well, there were many missions accomplished. There were 
no weapons of mass destruction. There were no ties to al-Qaida. We got 
Saddam Hussein. We got his relatives. Three elections were held. Our 
military did every single thing that was asked of them to the point 
where the President said ''mission accomplished.'' But, no, the troops 
are there. They are suffering. Believe me, there is no end in sight 
because I personally asked our Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice how 
long she, at the time, thought we would be in Iraq. She said she 
couldn't answer. I said: How much do you think we will have to spend? 
She couldn't answer. What kind of administration comes forward with a 
war and has no way out?

Russ Feingold is saying: All right. We won't set an end date. We will 
change the mission to get our troops out of harm's way. Let them 
continue to train Iraqis. Let them go after al-Qaida. Let them protect 
our forces there and our personnel there. But get them out of the 
business of kicking down doors in Iraq. We have lost so many of these 
brave men and women, and so many are coming home who will never be the 
same.

We have this war based on shifting missions. The President said: 
Mission accomplished. Dick Cheney said we are in the last throes. But 
it goes on and on under shifting rationales, going on 5 long years. 
Will it be another 5 years? They will not tell us. Will it be another 
10 years? They will not tell us.

Some of this administration's supporters say it will be 50 years. 
Some say it will be 100 years. How many brave men and women will die in 
addition to those who have already died? How many will be wounded? 
There are no answers.

Will we spend $1 trillion? Will we spend $2 trillion, $3 trillion? No 
answer. The toll is too high already. Thousands dead, tens of thousands 
injured, $10 billion a month for Iraq.

The Nation's Governors met with the President yesterday. On a 
bipartisan basis they asked to see increased spending on America's 
crumbling roads and highways and bridges. They said it would help our 
struggling economy, and we can't grow economically if we don't have an 
infrastructure. I am chair of the Public Works Committee of the Senate. 
My friend, Senator Inhofe, and I do not agree on the war in Iraq, but 
we certainly agree that we need to have an infrastructure. The 
President said: No, there is no money. There is only money for Iraq, an 
open checkbook, $10 billion a month. We can't fix our falling bridges. 
The $10 billion a month is equivalent to $2.5 billion a week, $357 
million a day.


For less than the cost of 3 months in Iraq, we could enroll every 
eligible child in America in the Head Start program for 1 long year. 
For the cost of 1 month in Iraq, we could provide afterschool care for 
our kids for 4 years. For the cost of 2 weeks in Iraq, we could provide 
health insurance for a year to 6 million uninsured kids. Last year we 
asked the President to help us with children's health. He said no. He 
vetoed that critical investment. He just said no to the Governors on 
rebuilding the roads and highways. Open checkbook for Iraq; closed 
checkbook for America.



Do you remember when the President's then-Budget Director, Mitch 
Daniels, told us the war in Iraq would cost no more than $60 billion? 
He was wrong. Paul Wolfowitz assured us Iraqi revenue would pay for the 
war. No, we remember there were a couple in the administration who said 
the war might cost as much as $200 billion. They were ridiculed. The 
President's most recent supplemental request for Iraq was $200 billion 
in itself, bigger than the stimulus package we just passed. The 
President has spent more than a half trillion dollars on his failed 
policy, and there is literally no end in sight. I think we need to 
remember this is all borrowed money. The cost of interest on Iraq-
related debt is $23 billion a year for fiscal year 2008 alone. The 
President's policy is being paid for on a credit card, and we are 
sticking my grandchildren and yours with the tab.

The cost of a barrel of oil has tripled since the war began, much to 
the benefit of countries such as Russia, Sudan, and Iran. According to 
the Joint Economic Committee, if you factor in the cost of the oil, the 
President's policy in Iraq has already cost the average family 
$416,500, and no end in sight.

It needs to stop. We are hemorrhaging money. The waste in this war is 
beyond disgraceful. We spent $32 million for a base in Iraq that was 
never built. We paid a contractor $72 million to build a barracks for 
the police academy in Baghdad and instead got a building with giant 
cracks snaking through newly built walls and human waste dripping from 
the ceiling. That is from a report. The administration loaded $9 
billion in cash on to pallets and shipped it into Iraq where it 
promptly disappeared.

I ask you: Imagine what would happen if $9 billion disappeared from 
one of our cities. The people responsible would be in prison. But in 
Iraq, the President shrugs it off.

When the President vetoed the Water Resources Development Act, he 
said it lacked fiscal discipline. He said it wasn't fiscally 
responsible. I would ask rhetorically: Not fiscally responsible to 
maintain our waterways and keep our commerce moving in this, the 
greatest Nation in the world? This, coming from a President who 
inherited a budget surplus and turned it into a huge debt, with the 
largest budget deficits in history as well, and money for Iraq every 
day, every hour, every minute, no end in sight, billions missing, 
billions on bases that were never built. It is breathtaking. The 
President and his supporters shrug it off. They don't even address it. 
It is unbelievable. The sky is the limit. But when it comes to 
investing in America or extending the stimulus for seniors and disabled 
vets, we are told: Sorry, we need to show fiscal discipline. Thank 
goodness we were able to get that through above the President's 
objections.

Our own military leaders tell us time and time again there is no 
military solution. God bless our soldiers. They have given us a 
breathing space. Yet the Iraqi Government is just making changes around 
the edges.

We have trained 440,000 Iraqis militarily. Imagine, 440,000 Iraqis. 
Why can't they defend themselves? Countries defend themselves. We have 
given so much in blood, in tears, in sweat, in dollars, in commitment, 
in trust. After the elections last year, I thought the President would 
come to the table when the Democrats took over and said we wanted to 
end the war. We thought he would come to the table. We were wrong. He 
did not come to the table. He is continuing this war, no end in sight, 
no plan to get out.

When I asked that question to Condoleezza Rice, I was stunned. She 
said: I can't answer the question of how long we will be there. I can't 
answer the question of what it will cost--as if I didn't have a right 
to ask the question. That is why I am sent here.

I represent, along with Senator Feinstein, 37 million people. We have 
taken a hit on soldiers killed. We have taken a hit on soldiers burned. 
We have taken a hit on soldiers permanently disabled. So you better 
know I am going to ask these questions.

Today, Senator Feingold is saying: Let's get started. Let's start 
telling the Iraqis, by our actions not just our words, that they have 
to step up to the plate.

We have to make a choice as a nation.

Is it time for America? It is time for our families, for our 
soldiers, for our children, for our grandchildren?

Or is it time to continue this open-ended commitment to a war without 
an end, a war that has no plan of ever ending, a war that is tying our 
hands in this recession?

I say it is time for a change in America. It is time to vote for the 
Feingold bill and start bringing our troops home.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.