---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `bea26d96bdc0f21855635eaa15f6ba74`
`Ms. STABENOW — 10 March 2008`

---


Ms. STABENOW. I thank the Senator. That means a lot.

Mr. President, I am going to take a few minutes because I expect to 
have multiple opportunities in which to participate and talk about 
various parts of the budget resolution that I believe reflect the 
values and priorities of the American people. That is what budgets are. 
That is what our own individual budgets are.

When we look at our checkbooks and where we spend our money, we hope 
it reflects the values we want to project. Sometimes it does and 
sometimes it doesn't in my own budget, my own checkbook. But the 
reality is, that is our job in terms of the Federal budget and where we 
invest that makes sense for American families.

I have to say that listening to colleagues tonight, as I had the 
opportunity to preside--colleagues on the other side of the aisle--I 
heard more of the same, unfortunately, that we have seen for the last 8 
years. Six of those eight years have been dominated by colleagues on 
the other side of the aisle, by a Republican President and a Republican 
Congress. Unfortunately, in my mind, when we talk about what they are 
going to propose, in totality what we see is more debt. We see more tax 
cuts for the wealthiest among us, more spending in Iraq and, at the 
same time, we see less investment in America. That is exactly the 
opposite of what we ought to be doing.

Our budget changes that. It focuses on balancing the budget by 2012 
and 2013. It provides middle-class tax cuts so we can make sure the 
folks who are trying to hold things together--everybody talks about 
middle-class families and middle-class people being squeezed, seeing 
gas prices and health care and childcare costs go up. Yet the reality 
is, unfortunately, the budget put forward by the President doesn't help 
them at all. I am proud to say we have a budget that, in fact, invests 
in America. I want to speak to one piece of that.

Last year, we set up three main priorities for our budget, and I was 
very proud of those--one to fully fund veterans health care and make 
sure we are keeping the promises to the veterans of America. We did it 
last year, and we are doing it again this year. We will continue, as 
long as we are in the majority, to make sure that is the case. We want 
to make sure people have the opportunity to go to college. We passed 
the largest package since the GI bill after World War II. No. 3 was 
children's health insurance, which we passed on a bipartisan basis. It 
was an extraordinary effort. We actually had the votes to overturn a 
Presidential veto and could not do that in the House of 
Representatives. We added 10 million children to the Children's Health 
Insurance Program, which gives them the opportunity to make sure their 
children have health insurance.

This year, we continue those things, but we have three more items we 
have picked. Mr. President, just to be simple, what I would say is our 
priorities are jobs, jobs, jobs. I can tell you, coming from the great 
State of Michigan, that is certainly what we want our focus to be on. 
We are talking about middle-income families who are struggling. And the 
best stimulus that you can possibly give somebody is a good-paying job 
so they can pay their bills, take care of their family, send their kids 
to college, and be able to have the American dream. I am very proud of 
the fact that our budget focuses on three priorities: jobs, jobs, jobs. 
How?

We have three pieces in our budget. We focus on green-collar jobs. I 
am very proud of the fact that the initiative I put forward is 
incorporated. The Presiding Officer is passionate about pieces of this 
legislation as well. We know there is a new economy. We know that 
alternative energy and moving forward in ways that will address global 
warming and stop our dependence on foreign oil can create jobs as well. 
So we have a major new initiative in this bill for green-collar jobs.

Secondly, jobs rebuilding America--water projects, sewers, roads, 
bridges. We are at a point in our country where we have an aging 
infrastructure. A lot of we baby boomers are aging but at the same time 
so is the infrastructure around us. The great thing about investing and 
rebuilding America is that these are not jobs you can outsource to 
another country; these are jobs right


here in America--good-paying jobs. That is our second priority.

Our third priority is to continue our focus on education and job 
training. We know we need to refocus on job training and on those who 
lost jobs because of trade by fully funding trade adjustment assistance 
for people to go back to school and gain new opportunities.

Mr. President, we are saying jobs, jobs, jobs. I want to focus 
specifically on the piece in which I have been most involved. This is 
very exciting. We passed an energy bill last year with a number of 
programs in it that were not funded but that were great ideas. This 
year, we come back and say let's make those things a reality in this 
budget.

Energy efficiency and conservation: Providing over $1.1 billion for 
State and local communities to not only focus on energy efficiency and 
conservation but buildings and weatherization. There is a huge amount 
of energy savings to be had by focusing in this area. It also creates 
lots and lots of jobs. It will put people to work weatherizing 
buildings and focusing on energy efficiency.

Advanced batteries: For us to go where we want to go in terms of new 
alternative fuel vehicles, it involves focusing on advanced battery 
technology. We are doing that but not nearly as fast as other 
countries. In the American budget last year, there was $22 million. Yet 
you can look over to China, Japan, and South Korea where hundreds of 
millions of dollars are being spent. As a result of that, we see very 
tangible things happening. When Ford Motor Company came forward with 
the first Ford Escape hybrid, an American SUV hybrid, unfortunately, 
even though the brain power came from here and the engineering came 
from here, the battery came from Japan because we weren't making them 
here.

We don't want to change from dependence on foreign oil to a 
dependence on foreign technology. So investing in the future in battery 
technology is incredibly important, not only for vehicles but battery 
storage is critical for such things as winds turbines, solar, and other 
areas where we need to be able to move forward with alternative energy. 
Battery storage is critical. I am proud that we put forward for the 
first time an aggressive investment in innovation and production here 
at home.

Retooling older plants. As we have new standards for fuel efficiency 
coming into play, we want to make sure we are retooling our old plants 
to keep American jobs here, biofuel production and access, meaning 
infrastructure. I come from a State where we are growing the biofuels 
and making the automobiles. If you cannot drive up to the service 
station and fuel with E-85 or biofuel, it is not going to matter in the 
end.

So being able to have that infrastructure and investment in 
infrastructure is absolutely critical. Finally, a green job training 
program to refocus on those jobs we know are there for the future. 
Again, the Presiding Officer has been a passionate advocate, and I know 
he believes strongly that jobs and energy and focusing on global 
warming and jobs can go together, and that is what this does. This says 
we are going to take this first step to focus on the American people.

What I will say again, as we go forward, there are many items that 
are in this budget that are very important. But what I am very proud of 
is the fact that we have put forward a budget resolution with three 
very simple priorities: jobs, jobs, jobs. And that is right where the 
American people are. People want American jobs where they can care for 
their families, they can have the dignity of work, they can have good 
wages and be able to have an American dream. This budget resolution is 
laser-focused on that priority.

I thank the Chair.