# None
## `bea27f7587350718ae53e87fe689e757`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 12 February 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, last month, on January 12th, Senator 
George McGovern spoke at the National Press Club about what he would 
advise President Bush to do on the Iraq War.

At 84 years of age, and as a veteran of World War II, Senator 
McGovern has the experience and knowledge that leads him to focus on 
the important questions surrounding this critical policy question. I 
hope all my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, will review Senator 
McGovern's remarks and ask the same questions of our president.



 Remarks by Senator George McGovern to the National Press Club















[Jan. 12, 2007]




 I'm glad to be back at the National Press Club. Indeed, at 


 the age of 84, I'm glad to be anywhere. In my younger years 


 when the subject of aging came up, trying to sound worldly 


 wise, I would say, ''It doesn't matter so much the number of 


 years you have, but what you do with those years.'' I don't 


 say that anymore. I now want to reach a hundred. Why? Because 


 I thoroughly enjoy life and there are so many things I must 


 still do before entering the mystery beyond. The most urgent 


 of these is to get American soldiers out of the Iraqi 


 hellhole Bush-Cheney and their neo-conservative theorists 


 have created in what was once called the cradle of 


 civilization. It is believed to be the location of the Garden 


 of Eden. I mention the neo-conservative theorists to recall 


 Walter Lippman's observance, ''There is nothing so dangerous 


 as a belligerent professor.''



 One of the things I miss about my 18 years in the U.S. 


 Senate are the stories of the old Southern Democrats. I 


 didn't always vote with them, but I loved their technique of 


 responding to an opponent's questions with a humorous story. 


 Once when Senator Sam Ervin of North Carolina had to handle a 


 tough question from Mike Mansfield, he said, ''You know, Mr. 


 Leader, that question reminds me of the old Baptist preacher 


 who was telling a class of Sunday school boys the creation 


 story. 'God created Adam and Eve and from this union came two 


 sons, Cain and Abel and thus the human race developed.' A boy 


 in the class then asked, 'Reverend, where did Cain and Abel 


 get their wives?' After frowning for a moment, the preacher 


 replied, 'Young man--it's impertinent questions like that 


 that's hurtin' religion.' ''



 Well, Mr. Bush, Jr. I have some impertinent questions for 


 you.



 Mr. President, Sir, when reporter Bob Woodward asked you if 


 you had consulted with your father before ordering our army 


 into Iraq you said, ''No, he's not the father you call on a 


 decision like this. I talked to my heavenly Father above.'' 


 My question, Mr. President: If God asked you to bombard, 


 invade and occupy Iraq for four years, why did he send an 


 opposite message to the Pope? Did you not know that your 


 father, George Bush, Sr., his Secretary of State James Baker 


 and his National Security Advisor General Skowcroft were all 


 opposed to your invasion? Wouldn't you, our troops, the 


 American people and the Iraqis all be much better off if you 


 had listened to your more experienced elders including your 


 earthly father? Instead of blaming God for the awful 


 catastrophe you have unleashed in Iraq, wouldn't it have been 


 less self-righteous if you had fallen back on the oft-quoted 


 explanation of wrongdoing, ''The devil made me do it?''



 And Mr. President, after the 9-11 hit against the Twin 


 Towers in New York, which gained us the sympathy and support 


 of the entire world, why did you then order the invasion of 


 Iraq, which had nothing to do with 9-11? Are you aware that 


 your actions destroyed the international reservoir of good 


 will towards the United States? What is the cost to America 


 of shattering the standing and influence of our country in 


 the eyes of the world?



 Why, Mr. President did you pressure the CIA to report 


 falsely that Iraq was building weapons of mass destruction 


 including nuclear weapons? And when you ordered your 


 Secretary of State, Colin Powell, to go to New York and 


 present to the U.N. the Administration's ''evidence'' that 


 Iraq was an imminent nuclear threat to the United States, 


 were you aware that after reading this deceitful statement 


 to the U.N., Mr. Powell told an aid that the so-called 


 evidence was ''bullshit''?



 Is it reasonable to you, President Bush, that Colin Powell 


 told you near the end of your first term that he would not be 


 in your administration if you were to receive a second term? 


 What decent person could survive two full terms of forced 


 lying and deceit?



 And Mr. President, how do you enjoy your leisure time, and 


 how can you sleep at night knowing that 3014 young Americans 


 have died in a war you mistakenly ordered? What do you say to 


 the 48,000 young Americans who have been crippled for life in 


 mind or body? What is your reaction to the conclusion of the 


 leading British medical journal (Lancet) that since you 


 ordered the bombardment and occupation of Iraq four years 


 ago, 600 thousand Iraqi men, women and children have been 


 killed? What do you think of the destruction of the Iraqi's 


 homes, their electrical and water systems, their public 


 buildings?



 And Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney, while neither of you has ever 


 been in combat (Mr. Cheney asking and receiving five 


 deferments from the Vietnam War), have you not at least read 


 or been briefed on the terrible costs of that ill-advised and 


 seemingly endless American war in tiny Vietnam? Do you 


 realize that another Texas President, Lyndon Baines Johnson, 


 declined to seek a second term in part because he had lost 


 his credibility over the disastrous war in Vietnam? Are you 


 aware that one of the chief architects of that war, Secretary 


 of Defense Robert McNamara, resigned his office and years 


 later published a book declaring that the war was all a 


 tragic mistake? Do you know this recent history in which 


 58,000 young Americans died in the process of killing 2 


 million Vietnamese men, women and children? If you do not 


 know about this terrible blunder in Vietnam, are you not 


 ignoring the conclusion of one of our great philosophers: 


 ''Those who are ignorant of history are condemned to 


 repeat it.'' And, Mr. President, in your ignorance of the 


 lessons of Vietnam, are you not condemning our troops and 


 our people to repeat the same tragedy in Iraq?



 During the long years between 1964 and 1975 when I fought 


 to end the American war in Vietnam, first as a U.S. Senator 


 from




 South Dakota and then as my party's nominee for President, my 


 four daughters ganged up on my one night. ''Dad, why don't 


 you give up this battle? You've been speaking out against 


 this crazy war since we were little kids. When you won the 


 Democratic presidential nomination, you got snowed under by 


 President Nixon.'' In reply I said, ''Just remember that 


 sometimes in history even a tragic mistake produces something 


 good. The good about Vietnam is that it is such a terrible 


 blunder, we'll never go down that road again.'' Mr. 


 President, we're going down that road again. So, what do I 


 tell my daughters? And what do you tell your daughters?



 Mr. President, I do not speak either as a pacifist or a 


 draft dodger. I speak as one who after the attack on Pearl 


 Harbor, volunteered at the age of nineteen for the Army Air 


 Corps and flew 35 missions as a B-24 bomber. I believed in 


 that war then and I still do 65 years later. And so did the 


 rest of America. Mr. President, are you missing the 


 intellectual and moral capacity to know the difference 


 between a justified war and a war of folly in Vietnam or 


 Iraq?



 Public opinion polls indicate that two-thirds of the 


 American people think that the war in Iraq has been a mistake 


 on your part. It is widely believed that this war was 


 the central reason Democrats captured control of both 


 houses of Congress. Polls among the people of Iraq 


 indicate that nearly all Iraqis want our military presence 


 in their country for the last four years to end now. Why 


 do you persist in defying public opinion in both the 


 United States and Iraq and throughout the other countries 


 around the globe? Do you see yourself as omniscient? What 


 is your view of the doctrine of self-determination, which 


 we Americans hold dear?



 And wonder of wonders, Mr. President, after such needless 


 death and destruction, first in the Vietnamese jungle and now 


 in the Arabian desert, how can you order 21,500 more American 


 troops to Iraq? Are you aware that as the war in Vietnam went 


 from bad to worse, our leaders sent in more troops and wasted 


 more billions of dollars until we had 550,000 U.S. troops in 


 that little country? It makes me shudder as an aging bomber 


 pilot to remember that we dropped more bombs on the 


 Vietnamese and their country than the total of all the bombs 


 dropped by all the air forces around the world in World War 


 II. Do you, Mr. President, honestly believe that we need tens 


 of thousands of additional troops plus a supplemental 


 military appropriation of 200 billion dollars before we can 


 bring our troops home from this nightmare in ancient Baghdad?



 In your initial campaign for the Presidency, Mr. Bush, you 


 described yourself as a ''compassionate conservative.'' What 


 is compassionate about consigning America's youth to a 


 needless and seemingly endless war that has now lasted longer 


 than World War II? And what is conservative about reducing 


 the taxes needed to finance this war and instead running our 


 national debt to nine trillion dollars with money borrowed 


 from China, Japan, Germany and Britain? Is this wild deficit 


 financing your idea of conservatism? Mr. President, how can a 


 true conservative be indifferent to the steadily rising cost 


 of a war that claims over seven billion dollars a month, 


 237 million dollars every day? Are you troubled to know as 


 a conservative that just the interest on our skyrocketing 


 national debt is $760,000 every day? Mr. President, our 


 Nobel Prize winning economist, Joseph Stiglitz, estimates 


 that if the war were to continue until 2010 as you have 


 indicated it might, the cost would be over a trillion 


 dollars.



 Perhaps, Mr. President, you should ponder the words of a 


 genuine conservative--England's 19th Century member of 


 Parliament, Edmund Burke: ''A conscientious man would be 


 cautious how he dealt in blood.''



 And, Mr. President at a time when your most respected 


 generals have concluded that the chaos and conflict in Iraq 


 cannot be resolved by more American dollars and more American 


 young bodies, do you ever consider the needs here at home of 


 our own anxious and troubled society? What about the words of 


 another true conservative, General and President Dwight 


 Eisenhower who said that, ''Every gun that is made, every 


 warship launched, every rocket fired signifies in the final 


 sense, a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those 


 who are cold and not clothed.''



 And, Mr. President, would not you and all the rest of us do 


 well to ponder the farewell words of President Eisenhower: 


 ''In the councils of government; we must guard against the 


 acquisition of the unwarranted influence of the military-


 industrial complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of 


 misplaced power exists and will persist.''



 Finally, Mr. President, I ask have you kept your oath of 


 office to uphold the Constitution when you use what you call 


 the war on terrorism to undermine the Bill of Rights? On what 


 constitutional theory do you seize and imprison suspects 


 without charge, sometimes torturing them in foreign jails? On 


 what constitutional or legal basis have you tapped the phones 


 of Americans without approval of the courts as required by 


 law? Are you above the Constitution, above the law, and 


 above the Geneva accords? If we are fighting for freedom 


 in Iraq as you say, why are you so indifferent to 


 protecting liberty here in America?



 Many Americans are now saying in effect, ''The American war 


 in Iraq has created a horrible mess but how can we now walk 


 away from it?'' William Polk, a former Harvard and University 


 of Chicago professor of Middle East Studies and a former 


 State Department expert on the Middle East, has teamed up 


 with me on a recent book requested by Simon and Schuster. It 


 is entitled, ''Out of Iraq: A Practical Plan for Withdrawal 


 Now.'' I feel awkward praising it, so I give you the 


 respected journalist of the New York Times, and now of 


 Newsweek, Anna Quindlen who told Charlie Rose on his 


 excellent TV program: ''There is a wonderful book I am 


 recommending to everyone. It's a very small, readable book by 


 George McGovern and William Polk called ''Out of Iraq''. And 


 it just very quickly runs you through the history of the 


 country, the makeup of the country, how we got in, the 


 arguments for getting in--many of which don't withstand 


 scrutiny--and how we can get out. It's like a little primer. 


 I think the entire nation should read it and then we will be 


 united.''



 If you need a second for the judgment of Anna Quindlen, I 


 give you the esteemed Library Journal: ''In this crisp and 


 cogently argued book, former Senator McGovern and scholar 


 Polk offer a trenchant and straightforward critique of the 


 war in Iraq. What makes their highly readable book unique is 


 that it not only argues why the United States needs to 


 disengage militarily from Iraq now . . . but also clearly 


 delineates practical steps for troop withdrawal . . . 


 Essential reading for anybody who wants to cut through the 


 maze of confusion that surrounds current U.S. policy in Iraq, 


 this book is highly recommended for public and academic 


 libraries.''



 Professor Polk is a descendant of President Polk and the 


 brother of the noted George Polk, is here today from his home 


 in southern France and he will join me at the podium as I 


 conclude this impartial interrogation of President Bush. And 


 now, members of the National Press Club and your guests, it' 


 s your turn to cross-examine Bill Polk and me in, of course, 


 an equally impartial manner.
