# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `beaf259b92bee0ad1760f09f7479dd08`
`Mr. DORGAN — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, let me thank my colleague from Michigan 
and my colleague from Arizona as well.

I believe my colleague, Senator Conrad from North Dakota, may well 
join me, if he is able to.

I want to describe an amendment we have filed. We will attempt to 
offer it at some point, but I have filed an amendment, along with my 
colleague, Senator Conrad, and I want to describe it briefly. As I do, 
let me say this: I understand, and have always understood, it is far 
easier, when making a case, to make the negative side than the positive 
side. I understand, and have always understood, it is easier to 
recognize failure than it is to recognize success. I respect everyone's 
views on this issue, this issue of the war in Iraq, the fight against 
terrorism. It is a passionate debate we have in this Chamber and in 
this country. I respect the views of everyone who stands and offers 
their thoughts about what this country ought to do.

We need to get this right. The future of this country, perhaps the 
future of the world, depends on our ability to get this right. But I 
have been waking up in the mornings and picking up the morning papers 
and seeing statements in the papers that have bothered me a lot.

I want to mention, as we bring to the floor of the Senate a piece of 
legislation authorizing the spending for our military of $640 billion 
roughly--$640 billion--and we are building anti-ballistic missile 
defense systems, we are building ICBMs, we are building tanks and 
planes and ships, we are doing all these things, and we are spending a 
lot of money--but, even as we do all that, let me review something 
else, if I might.

It has been 6 years since Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida attacked us 
with 19 people and box cutters, hijacking airplanes loaded with fuel 
and killing innocent Americans--thousands of them.

Six years since those attacks. A long time.

It has been 6 long years, and yet Osama bin Laden is still free 
today. He has not been brought to justice.

It has been 6 long years, and al-Qaida is stronger today than it has 
been in years, according to all of the reports recently released.

It has been 6 years, and al-Qaida is now rebuilding its terrorist 
training camps, along with the Taliban, in a safe harbor.

It has been 6 years, and they are reconstituting their ability to 
attack us. Yes, al-Qaida and the Taliban are reconstituting their 
operational capability in a safe hideaway in Pakistan. It is called a 
''secure hideaway in Pakistan'' officially.

It remains the greatest threat to the United States, even after these 
6 long years: after two wars in two countries, after trillions of 
dollars spent on those wars and for homeland security, after the deaths 
of thousands of our military, and after the wounding of tens of 
thousands of our military.



Yesterday, we heard from the No. 2 person, al-Zawahiri. He has 
released about a dozen tapes in the last year. Previously, we heard 
from Osama bin Laden. They are free, and they have escaped justice, and 
they are exhorting their followers to attack and kill, and al-Qaida is 
reconstituting.

All this after six years.

Let me describe a couple of things.

On, January, 11, 2007, in testimony before the Senate Select 
Committee on Intelligence, the top intelligence person in our country 
said:




 Al Qaeda continues to plot attacks against our Homeland and 


 other targets with the objective of inflicting mass 


 casualties. And they continue to maintain active connections 


 and relationships that radiate outward from their leaders' 


 secure hideaway in Pakistan.


Our top intelligence person in this country said they have a secure 
hideout in Pakistan. John Negroponte said that. He was the Director of 
National Intelligence at the time. That was only a few months ago.

Here is what he also said:




 Al Qaeda is the terrorist organization that poses the 


 greatest threat to US interests, including to the Homeland.


January 2007. That is not from the New York Times or the Washington 
Post, that is the testimony from John Negroponte, who at that point was 
the top intelligence official in our Government. Al Qaeda had a secure 
hideaway in Pakistan and remained the greatest threat to the U.S.

Now, 2 days ago, I read in the paper that the head of our Homeland 
Security agency has a ''gut feeling'' about a new period of increased 
risk--a ''gut feeling.''

Well, let me show you what we had in August of 2001: a Presidential 
daily briefing. This was released, by the way, about 3 years ago. This 
was the Presidential daily briefing, and I have it in my hand, dated 
August 6, 2001. The title is ''Bin Laden determined to strike in the 
U.S.''

That was the Presidential daily briefing in August of 2001. ''Bin 
Laden determined to strike in the U.S.''

July of 2007, almost six years later, top administration officials 
say that ''Al Qaeda is better positioned to strike the West.'' That's 
the secret intelligence assessment of the National Counter Terrorism 
Center.

Think of that for a moment. Six years have passed. Six years have 
passed since the attacks of September 11, 2001. But, here we are 
debating a $640-plus billion authorization bill for armaments of every 
kind, and the greatest threat to our country today, according to the 
top intelligence Director in this Government, is al-Qaida and its 
network. And they operate from a secure hideaway in Pakistan. And, they 
are rebuilding their operational capability. Six years later.

What has happened? What is happening? Well, we wake up in the morning 
and we read what is happening: Officials are worrying of a terror 
attack this summer. Michael Chertoff says he has a ''gut feeling'' 
about that. Other U.S. counterterrorism officials who spoke on 
condition of anonymity shared Chertoff's concern. This article says:




 Al-Qaida and like minded groups have been able to plot and 


 train more freely in the tribal areas along the Afghan-


 Pakistani border in recent months.


I have been in that area. I have flown over the Afghanistan and 
Pakistani area border. I understand what it looks like. I understand 
you can't see where one country starts and another country begins. I 
understand how difficult all this must be. But I don't understand how 
this administration has decided, after 6 long years, that it doesn't 
matter so much that we haven't captured Osama bin Laden. The President 
himself said that. He doesn't worry much about Osama bin Laden. That's 
a direct quote. I can get it for you. That's exactly what he said: 
Don't worry much about him.

Well, our country ought to worry about him. The leadership of al-
Qaida is the leadership of the organization that attacked this country 
and who, even now, we are told, are planning additional attacks against 
this country. So how is it in all this time that has elapsed that Osama 
is still on the loose and that al-Qaida is getting stronger and 
stronger.

How is it that this is so even after the President said ''If you 
harbor terrorists, you are the same as terrorists to us; there will be 
no safe harbor.'' There was a safe harbor in Afghanistan for the 
terrorists. The Taliban gave them a safe harbor, so we went to war in 
Afghanistan. We drove out the Taliban and got rid of the safe harbor. 
That's what we did back in 2001 and 2002.

But, apparently now, there is another safe harbor for Osama bin Laden 
and al-Qaida. After 6 long years, they have another safe harbor. It's 
in Pakistan or on the border of Pakistan and Afghanistan. They have 
terrorists training camps there. They are rebuilding. They are 
planning. Just like they did before.

We must do something about this. We must not ignore this warning. We 
must act now.

Senator Conrad and I have filed an amendment and we will offer it 
when we get the opportunity. It will do a couple of things. No. 1, it 
will insist we be given classified briefings on a quarterly basis on 
the hunt for Osama bin Laden and the leadership of al-Qaida.

It will require that every quarter the Defense Department and the 
Director of National Intelligence provide Congress with a classified 
briefing telling us what is being done by the resources of this 
administration and the resources that are given in this Defense 
authorization bill to apprehend and bring to justice Osama bin Laden, 
al-Zawahiri, and others who led the attacks against this country and 
who even today plan additional attacks against our country.

This is an urgent matter. This isn't just going after those who 
attacked us yesterday. It's about going after those seeking to attack 
us today and tomorrow.

Just 2 weeks ago, the McClatchy Newspaper, on June 26, 2007, reported 
that ''Al-Qaida regroups in a new sanctuary on the Pakistani border,'' 
senior U.S. military intelligence and law enforcement officials say. It 
reported that ''While the U.S. presses its war against insurgents 
linked to al-Qaida in Iraq, Osama bin Laden's group is recruiting, 
regrouping, and rebuilding in a new sanctuary along the border between 
Afghanistan and Pakistan.''

Six years after the attacks in this country, this is what we read.

Now, we are in a war in the country of Iraq. I understand there are 
some in this Chamber who say this is the beachhead against al-Qaida. It 
is not. Does al-Qaida exist in Iraq? Yes, it does. But most of what is 
happening in Iraq is sectarian violence: Shia killing Sunni, Sunni 
killing Shia, Sunni and Shia killing American soldiers. Yes, al-Qaida 
exists in Iraq, but al-Qaida has largely come to Iraq as a result of 
what has been happening in Iraq. It was not and is not the central 
fight with respect to the war on terror.

I spoke about this previously with respect to an amendment of this 
type. Incidentally, Senator Conrad and I have gotten this amendment 
passed by the Senate previously, but it gets dropped in conference. My 
hope is it will pass the Senate once again and this time--this time, at 
long last--it will not be dropped in conference.

Finally, on a quarterly basis, at least, we will be able to get 
classified information about whether this administration is pursuing 
and bringing to justice those who attacked this country on 9/11, 2001, 
and those who, according to the papers this morning and yesterday 
morning and the morning before that, continue to plot those attacks 
against this country.

How much longer will we be asked to read these stories, in most cases 
by unnamed administration officials?




 ''Senior leaders of al-Qaida operating from Pakistan over 


 the past year have set up a band of training camps in the 


 tribal regions near the Afghan border,'' according to 


 American intelligence and counterterrorism officials. 


 ''American officials said there was mounting evidence that 


 Osama bin Laden and his deputy, al-Zawahiri, have been 


 steadily building an operations hub in the mountainous 


 Pakistani tribal area north of Waziristan.''


Those are the reports. They have been the same for a year or so now. 
Every couple of months we read this.

I think it is important to ask the question--as we describe a piece 
of legislation that will offer $640-plus billion for the Department of 
Defense--I think it is important for us to ask the question as to 
whether at least a portion of this is dedicated to bringing to justice 
those who attacked this country.


If the head of our intelligence service is correct when he says that 
''Al-Qaida


is the terrorist organization that poses the greatest threat to U.S. 
interests, including to the Homeland,'' then why is the central fight 
not a fight to apprehend and bring to justice the leadership of al-
Qaida?

Why are they free today? Why are they in a secure area? Why are they 
harbored in a secure area where they are plotting attacks against our 
country and other countries? Why does that exist? It seems to me, at 
least in part, it must be a matter of will. The central fight, in my 
judgment, ought to be the fight to bring to justice those who attacked 
our country.

Now, with respect to Iraq, this country is going to leave Iraq. That 
is not the question. The question is when and how.

The American people are not going to continue year after year after 
year asking American soldiers to be in the middle of a civil war in 
Iraq. It simply will not be the case that the American people will 
allow that to happen. So we are going to leave Iraq; the question is 
how and when. We will debate that via several amendments over the 
coming days.

But my point this morning is to say, while we debate Iraq and debate 
the circumstances of American troops largely in the middle of a civil 
war in Iraq, the question remains: Why? Why, after 6 years, does Osama 
bin Laden remain free? Why does he remain in a secure hideaway and 
remain apparently at the top, along with al-Zawahiri, in charge of al-
Qaida, plotting attacks against free people? Why is that still the 
case?

Shouldn't we, finally, at last, at long last as a country, insist 
that our major objective be to bring to justice the leaders of al-Qaida 
and destroy the al-Qaida network? That is the real fight against 
terrorism.

There is so much to say about so many subjects on the Defense 
authorization bill, but when we talk about defending our country's 
interests, we can go back some years and recall that we were in the 
middle of a Cold War, where we knew who the enemy was. The enemy was a 
nation state. In that case, the Cold War was the Soviet Union; the 
Soviet Union and the United States built large arsenals of nuclear 
weapons to stand each other off in something called mutually assured 
destruction.

Times have changed. The Soviet Union doesn't exist anymore. Now, the 
major threat to our country is not a nation state. It is not an 
organization that has an ''army'' that wears uniforms. The greatest 
threat to our country now, according to testimony before the Select 
Committee on Intelligence of our country's most senior intelligence 
official, the Director of Intelligence, Mr. Negroponte, is clear:




 Al-Qaida is the terrorist organization that poses the 


 greatest threat to U.S. interests, including to the Homeland.


If that is the case, then where is the strategy in the use of all the 
resources we provide in this legislation to the administration? Where 
is the strategy to bring to justice those who attacked this country? 
Regrettably and unfortunately, I think that strategy has not existed 
for far too long.

As I indicated, I have filed the amendment I have written and the 
amendment that I and Senator Conrad, who joins me in this amendment, 
will attempt to have considered by the Senate. I assume it will be 
considered following the consideration of several others of the Iraq 
amendments that have already been noticed. The amendment we have filed 
requires classified reports on a quarterly basis. It also will double 
the reward that has been offered from $25 million to $50 million for 
apprehending or information leading to the apprehension of Osama bin 
Laden.

We gave the current administration substantial authority to boost the 
reward 2 years ago. It did not do that. We believe that, because 
nothing seems to happen with this administration on this issue, it is 
important for the Congress to push and to insist.

In this amendment, we ask for four key things. We ask that the 
classified briefings be given to Congress telling us the likely current 
location of the al-Qaida leadership. All of the information suggests 
that senior leaders in this administration know generally where that 
location is.

We ask for a description of the ongoing efforts to bring the 
leadership of al-Qaida to justice and a report on the Governments of 
the countries in which al-Qaida is allowed to exist and allowed to 
rebuild. We ask for reports on whether they are fully cooperating with 
us and what they are doing to help us apprehend those who attacked our 
country.

So that represents my interest in trying to address this issue. Once 
again, I have spoken to Senator Levin previously on this issue. In 
fact, we have previously passed a similar amendment through the Senate, 
and I appreciate his cooperation in doing so. I would ask of Senator 
Levin if he would give us some consideration. We filed the amendment, 
and we will ask to follow it up and have it considered at some 
appropriate point.

He, of course, manages this bill and has the juggling requirement to 
meet all the needs for time that people have. I see my colleague, 
Senator Conrad, is coming to the floor, and I think I have a few 
minutes remaining. As he joins us to speak of his interest in this 
amendment, let me ask Senator Levin, if I might, while we are waiting 
for Senator Conrad, would we have an opportunity either this week or 
next week to be able to consider our amendment?