---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `beb43cec0ee317f2952fb4fcdaf424bd`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 5 September 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, in Iraq and Afghanistan, like so many 
conflicts before, our servicemembers have done absolutely everything 
that has been asked of them. They have answered the President's call to 
war with honor and a sense of duty we have come to expect from our 
Nation's bravest men and women. They have performed under enormous 
pressure in the middle of a civil war, they have left behind loved ones 
who count on them, and they have continued to put their lives on the 
line every day.

Unfortunately, at home, their commitment to service has not been met 
yet by an administration that is committed to care for them. From poor 
conditions at VA facilities around the country, lack of PTSD 
counselors, benefits claims backlogs that keep our veterans waiting for 
months and months and months and sometimes years, it is very clear that 
so far this administration has failed to account for our Nation's 
veterans and to count them as a cost of this war. It is unacceptable 
that servicemembers who fought overseas are returning home and being 
forced to fight their own Government for the care and services they 
need.


Today, with the bill that is in front of us, the VA bill, we take a 
major step toward reversing that trend and the Bush administration's 
failure to care for our heroes. The funding for our veterans included 
in the VA bill is more than $3.6 billion over the President's request. 
After years of cutting corners on caring for our heroes, we are finally 
putting forth an honest assessment of what these men and women need.

This bill takes into account the additional strains on the VA system 
that simultaneous wars and new battlefield realities present. It is an 
investment that represents nearly all of the independent budget, which 
is the recommendation of the funds needed to care for our veterans and 
is compiled by our veterans service organization.

This bill invests in improving health care, expanding mental health 
services, and constructing new facilities that are really needed. It is 
going to mean, when this bill is passed and signed by the President, 
more qualified health care workers, better prosthetics that our 
servicemembers are asking for, and more accessible veterans facilities. 
It is also going to mean, importantly, thousands of new VA case workers 
who will help us reduce that unacceptable delay that we have heard 
about from so many of our veterans when they come home and try to 
access their benefits.

It will improve conditions at our VA facilities. It will add an 
increased investment in polytrauma and mental health care facilities 
that will drastically improve treatment for PTSD and traumatic brain 
injury and catastrophic injuries as well. Most of all, this bill means 
after years of neglect our Government is again going to honor our 
veterans' sacrifices.

This bill and all it provides could not come at a more crucial time. 
As a member myself of both the appropriations subcommittee that is 
responsible for this bill and the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, I 
have heard numerous times firsthand about the VA's shortcomings in 
caring for our veterans. In fact, last month on the August break I held 
a Senate Veterans' Affairs field hearing in Takoma, WA, to specifically 
examine the challenges that men and women are facing when they come 
home. At that hearing I spoke with Brandon Jacobs. He is a veteran of 
the Army and National Guard, and he served in Iraq. He said a lot more 
has to be done to raise awareness of post-traumatic stress syndrome and 
combat-related stresses. He talked about how we needed to not only 
increase access for him and his fellow servicemembers, but also for the 
families that struggle when a loved one returns home with an invisible 
wound.

I also heard from a young man, Dan Purcell. He is an Iraq veteran who 
said he didn't ''want to be treated as a tool that could be casually 
discarded when broken or found to be no longer useful.'' What a tragic 
statement from someone who served us overseas, that when he comes home 
he feels like a discarded tool because he has been broken. That is not 
how we should be treating our veterans, and that is not how this VA/HUD 
bill treats our veterans.

This bill that is before us finally takes the important steps that 
are necessary to recognize Brandon and Dan and so many others who are 
part of the costs of this war. We also have to make sure our troops are 
ready and that they receive the training they need before we send them 
overseas. I am very pleased that within this bill, the military 
construction investments that are made will help our country do a 
better job in training the men and women we asked to serve us in our 
military. In my home State of Washington, our military facilities play 
a very important role in our Nation's security. We have Fort Lewis in 
Tacoma, where we are training the Stryker Brigades at the center of the 
fighting in Iraq, we have Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane that 
plays a major role in our air defense, and we have the Naval Air 
Station Whidbey Island that helps patrol the Pacific shores. It is 
extremely critical that these bases, which serve such vital roles, 
receive the funding they need.

The bill that is in front of us today does just that and provides 
more than $635 million in improvements for Washington State military 
installations. I thank Senators Reed and Hutchison for their special 
attention and recognition of the needs of our bases in my home State of 
Washington and across the country. Their leadership on this bill has 
been outstanding.

I know the chair and ranking member will be on the Senate floor 
throughout today. The leader has told us that he wants this bill 
finished by this evening. I urge all Members who have any amendments to 
come this afternoon to get their amendments offered because we do have 
to wrap up this bill. We are very aware of the timelines that are 
approaching, the very short amount of time that is left to get our 
numerous appropriations bills through. We intend to move them through. 
In order to do that we ask Members to come to the floor today, offer 
their amendments, let's work through them and get this bill passed so 
we can get it sent to the President.

It is important to pass this bill because this bill recognizes that 
any time we invest in building our military and improving training for 
our troops we invest in their care. I remind my colleagues what George 
Washington famously observed one time:




 The willingness with which our young people are likely to 


 serve in any way war, no




 matter how justified, shall be directly proportional to how 


 they perceive the veterans of earlier wars were treated and 


 appreciated by their country.


The bill in front of us reverses President Bush's failures and 
carries through on the commitment that our very first President 
discussed. It keeps our military strong by honoring the sacrifices of 
our heroes with the funding that meets their needs.

I note this bill has been endorsed by the Disabled Americans, 
Veterans of Foreign Wars, American Legion, Paralyzed Veterans of 
America, AMVETS, and the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, 
among many other veterans service organizations that take so much time 
out of their own lives to fight for our veterans and recognize the 
critical funding for this bill.

I note an AP article from this morning that says the Secretary of the 
VA, Secretary Nickolson, has said in a letter to key lawmakers they do 
not need additional funding, they just need this bill passed. I note we 
have heard that song before, and that song was wrong.

We have to do the right thing. This bill is critical. The additional 
funding in this bill, I think every Member knows is needed. Every one 
of us has been out there and talked to the men and women who have come 
home from Iraq, to their families, and heard from PTSD counselors on 
down the line who have visited facilities or Walter Reed or seen 
facilities in their own States. They know this funding is needed. I 
encourage my colleagues to come to the Senate floor, offer their 
amendments, get this bill expeditiously to conference and sent to the 
President. I encourage the President and Secretary not to challenge us 
on the need for funding but to do the right thing; recognize the care 
of our service men and women is part of the cost of war. It is an 
obligation we have to meet.

We are meeting it with this bill, and I hope we can get it done 
quickly so our veterans, many men and women who have served us, will 
know this country is doing right by them.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.