# TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `bec5b386c1cf9539cdf874809f3e127d`
`Mr. KYL â€” 10 December 2009`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I wish to say a few words about the 
legislation which is pending before us, which is the Omnibus 
appropriations bill. It is a bill that will substantially add to our 
national debt and substantially increase spending and I think it is 
worthwhile to point out some of the features of this bill, since 
presumably we will be voting on it sometime this weekend.

I would start by pointing out that our national deficit for the past 
fiscal year now stands at $1.4 trillion. So the fiscal year which just 
concluded added $1.4 trillion to the national debt. That is the largest 
deficit we have ever had, by far. It is about three times as much as 
the largest deficit under the Bush administration. Our current 
unemployment level is at 10 percent, despite the administration's 
insistence earlier this year that Congress pass a $1 trillion-plus 
stimulus package that was supposed to reduce unemployment. The Senate 
is currently in the middle of a debate on a health care bill that has a 
10-year implementation cost of $2.5 trillion. Sometime in the next 
month we will be forced to raise the Nation's debt ceiling for the 
second time this year to a level that exceeds the current ceiling of 
$12.1 trillion.

If all that were not enough, we are now presented with this Omnibus 
appropriations bill that costs nearly $500 billion more; to be exact, 
$446.8 billion. This is simply irresponsible. When is it going to end? 
We are piling spending bill on spending bill and debt on debt. At a 
time when many Americans are being forced to get by on less, the 
majority has crafted a bill that uses the government's credit card to 
increase spending on the six appropriations bills that make up this 
package--by how much? By 12 percent total.

For perspective, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the 
consumer price index, the CPI, the measurement of inflation over the 
past 12 months, was .2 percent. So the cost of living is going up by .2 
percent. Yet we are giving these government agencies 12 percent more 
money for next year. Let me give some examples.

The Transportation-HUD bill receives a 23-percent increase over last 
year. Has anybody had their income go up by 23 percent over last year? 
Well, if you are in the Federal Government, you can make it happen. 
That is not responsible.

How about the State-Foreign Operations bill, a 33-percent increase, a 
third over last year--a 33-percent increase. Included in that is a 24-
percent increase for the State Department's salaries and operations 
account. That is not responsible.

The Commerce, Justice, and Science bill receives a 12-percent 
increase over last year. At least that is the average of the six bills 
in total.

How about earmarks? Well, they are in here, big time. According to 
Taxpayers for Common Sense, this bill is larded up with 5,224 
earmarks--5,224 earmarks--that total $3.8 billion. That is not 
responsible.

Some examples include $600,000 for a streetscape beautification in 
California and $300,000 for Carnegie Hall music and education programs 
in New York City. In the current economic environment, that doesn't 
seem to be the most responsible use of Federal taxpayer dollars.

If the irresponsible levels of spending were not bad enough, the bill 
makes a number of significant policy changes as well. Ordinarily, we 
are not supposed to have policy changes in an appropriations bill, but 
when you lump them all together in a take-it-or-leave-it form, such as 
this omnibus, well, if you are the majority, you think you can get away 
with it. Here are 134 examples.

With respect to the fairness doctrine, this omnibus does not include 
the fiscal year 2008 ban on Federal funds being used to enforce or 
implement the so-called fairness doctrine--so nothing to implement or 
enforce the so-called fairness doctrine.

The bill makes some changes to several longstanding policy provisions 
contained in the financial services bill and specifically the District 
of Columbia section dealing with abortion, medical marijuana, needle 
exchange, domestic partners, and the DC Opportunity Scholarship 
Program. That program has been enormously popular and enormously 
successful. Yet this bill provides only enough money--$13.2 million--to 
allow the currently enrolled students in this popular program, the DC 
Opportunity Scholarship Program, ultimately leading to the termination 
of the program. I have met with some of these students and their 
parents. They are doing very well because of the


environment in which they are finally able to study and learn and be 
safe. This program is so popular that people have lined up in long 
queues to take advantage of it. Yet we are going to terminate the 
program as a result of language in this bill.

Well, it is a cross between irresponsible policy and spending.


The bill reduces funding for the Office of Labor Management standards 
at the Department of Labor by 10 percent. This is the office that 
investigates union activity and the use of membership dues. Since 
fiscal year 1998, it has secured 1,400 convictions, resulting in the 
return of $106 million in embezzled funds to union workers. So where 
are our priorities? The only place where we see cuts in this bill are 
in areas where, in this case, the Department of Labor has been 
enforcing labor law and getting convictions for embezzlement of 
workers' funds. This is not an area where we want to cut, unless, of 
course, you are trying to do the bidding of the labor unions who don't 
like to be called to account for embezzlement of trust fund moneys of 
their members.

Well, what is missing from this bill? Despite spending nearly $500 
billion and covering 6 of the 10 appropriations bills, this bill is 
significant for what it does not include: The fiscal year 2010 Defense 
appropriations bill, arguably the most important bill yet to be acted 
upon. Just shortly after President Obama announced his surge strategy 
for Afghanistan, the majority has decided to play politics on the backs 
of our troops. The majority is holding the Defense bill back from this 
package so it can be used as a vehicle for other purposes; for example, 
to increase our Nation's debt ceiling and potentially push through a 
number of other bills that likely don't have the votes to pass on their 
own. That is wrong. While our commanders in the field and civilians at 
the Pentagon wait, our other less-urgent appropriations priorities will 
receive double-digit spending increases. That is not responsible and it 
is not right.

Given what I know about this bill--and I haven't had a chance to read 
it all yet--I would echo my friend in the House, Republican leader John 
Boehner, who requested the President uphold his campaign promise to go 
through the budget, line by line, and eliminate irresponsible and 
wasteful spending.

I can assure my colleagues, we will go through this and we will 
identify those earmarks and we will bring them to the attention of our 
colleagues, and we will, undoubtedly, because of these spending 
increases and earmarks and bad policy, attempt to defeat this 
legislation.

Finally, I wish to make reference to some comments I saw delivered by 
Dr. Christina Romer, Chair of the White House Council of Economic 
Advisers, as I was drinking my coffee and watching TV a couple days 
ago. This was on CNN's ''American Morning'' program on December 8. I 
was rather startled because she said she was getting rid of the jobs 
deficit and dealing with the budget deficit, two big problems we 
inherited and absolutely have to deal with.

Well, it is true, on January 20 of this year when President Obama 
took office, we had a deficit and we also had a problem with 
unemployment. The problem is in inferring they are doing something 
about it, whereas the Bush administration created the problem, I think 
they create a misimpression. So I asked my staff to get just two 
numbers. What was the national debt the last day of President Bush's 
second term and what is it today--or actually December 7 is the date we 
got the number for, the 322nd day of President Obama's term. In other 
words, Dr. Christina Romer was saying these are big problems we 
inherited and we have to deal with them. So how have they dealt with 
them? Well, it turns out the national debt the last day of President 
Bush's second term was $10.6 trillion. What is it today, 322 days 
later? It is $12 trillion. That is some way to fix that problem.

If they are going to complain about the national debt, then get it 
reduced instead of increased in less than a year--it has gone from 
$10.6 trillion to $12 trillion; that is $4.5 billion in new debt every 
single day. These are not my numbers, these are the official statistics 
of the Bureau of the Public Debt.

The other statistic was unemployment. ''We inherited unemployment.'' 
That is true. I don't know the average, but I think it is somewhere 
around 4 or 5 percent in our country. On the last day President Bush 
was in office, unemployment stood at 7.6 percent. I thought, given the 
stimulus package, surely we have reduced unemployment. What is the 
unemployment number today? It is 10 percent--after nearly a year of 
President Obama's failed $1 trillion stimulus experience.

When Dr. Romer said ''we inherited this problem,'' my immediate 
reaction is that the President has been in office for a year. What has 
he done about it? Answer: It has gotten worse. We have added well over 
$1 trillion to the national debt, and unemployment is now up to 10 
percent from 7.6 percent under President Bush.

Some fixing of the problem. I suggest that President Obama and his 
White House officials and staff stop trying to blame President Bush for 
everything. If the President has been in office long enough to get the 
Nobel Peace Prize, presumably he has been in office long enough to do 
something about the public debt or unemployment.

He has done something about it all right: Unemployment is up from 7.6 
percent to 10 percent, and the national debt is up from $10.6 trillion 
to $12 trillion.

In view of these facts, it doesn't make sense to me to pass a nearly 
$500 billion omnibus appropriations bill, with departments of this 
government receiving 26, 30, and 33 percent increases in their budget, 
when the CPI has only gone up .2 percent this year, and when Americans 
are scrimping and saving and trying to get by with less. It makes no 
sense at all.

I hope my colleagues, as we consider this omnibus appropriations bill 
before us right now, will take these things into consideration before 
we vote to pile yet more debt on the backs of our taxpaying 
constituents.