---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `bec7f713419c47d75422a66622da3e23`
`Mr. LOTT — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I have argued we should not filibuster 
Federal judges. One time when I sat in that seat as majority leader, my 
colleagues actually voted to filibuster a judge and opposed cloture. 
Senator Hatch and I took to the floor and said we are not going to do 
this. This is wrong. If you want to vote against him, vote against him, 
but we are not going to filibuster these judges. Those judges were 
Judges Paez and Berzon in 2000. We had a second vote, reversed the 
previous vote which opposed cloture, invoked cloture, and then voted on 
those nominees. I voted against them both, but I thought they deserved 
an up-or-down vote.

Here tonight and tomorrow, when we vote, at the very minimum we 
should not filibuster this nomination. We should allow this judge to 
have an up-or-down vote. One of the speakers tonight indicated he would 
vote against him. Fine, if that is what your conscience dictates. But 
first, we have to deal with this question of should we start down this 
trail of filibustering qualified judges because we disagree with some 
philosophical position. We shouldn't do that. If we do it here, we will 
do it again later. If we do it in this administration, we will do it in 
another administration. Give the man an up-or-down vote. I believe--I 
am absolutely convinced--that he will be confirmed.

I will have a few more remarks probably in the morning, but let me 
say to you, Mr. President, and to my colleagues in the Senate, I have 
never before done this, but I can vouch on my honor to this institution 
that I have served for many years now and in leadership positions, this 
is a good and qualified nominee who will reflect credit on the 
institution that confirms him and in the court in which he serves.

The judicial confirmation process has always shown strong deference 
to the opinions of home State Senators. There is good reason for this. 
Home State Senators are uniquely positioned to know the personalities, 
qualifications, and reputations of the nominees from their state. The 
fact that this traditional courtesy of the Senate is being ignored 
should be cause for concern for every Senator in this Chamber.

I respected this traditional courtesy when I served as majority 
leader. In the last few years of the Clinton administration, a 
Republican Senate confirmed a string of highly controversial appeals 
court nominees who nonetheless had the backing of their home State 
Senators.

When the controversial nominations of Paez and Berzon where debated 
in 2000, I filed cloture on both of their nominations. While many on my 
side of the aisle opposed the nominations, I upheld my promise to bring 
their nominations to an up-or-down vote.

We are in danger of establishing an ill-advised precedent that could 
have longstanding negative ramifications on not just the legislative 
branch but also upon the judicial branch. Should this body block a 
clearly qualified nominee based on a ''perceived controversy''?

Every Senator in this body needs to understand what is at stake here. 
This isn't a simple case of controversial nominee being taken down in a 
partisan fight.

This is a mainstream nominee to a seat that has been declared a 
judicial emergency, with the strong support of both home State 
Senators, with a ''unanimously well qualified'' rating from the ABA--
the supposed gold standard for my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle--who was reported out of the Judiciary Committee unanimously for 
a lower court nomination less than 12 months ago, and a military judge 
who courageously served in Iraq.

This isn't just about Judge Lesile Southwick. This is about the 
standard that is being set for the future. Every Senator in this 
Chamber will have judicial nominees that come from their home State, 
and they will expect those qualified nominees--with home State Senator 
support--to be confirmed. Well, that is not the precedent that we are 
establishing here. Next time, this could be your nominee.

I yield the floor.