---
---

# SNOHOMISH COUNTY WORLD WAR II VETERAN'S PROJECT
## `bede5ce567e7f66a49b75a55e0dfd7c8`
`Mr. LARSEN of Washington — 18 May 2010`

---


Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Madam Speaker, today I rise to recognize 
the Snohomish


County World War II Veteran's Project participants and organizers.

I would like to begin by thanking all veterans for their service to 
our country. From the beaches of Normandy to the mountains of 
Afghanistan, our men and women in uniform have overcome and continue to 
overcome tremendous adversity to fulfill their missions.

Our nation's veterans have helped keep us safe, and helped keep us 
free.

It is important that our community remembers and honors the 
sacrifices made by the men and women who have served in our military, 
as well as their families and supporters.

Although future generations may never meet a veteran of World War II, 
the book assembled by Janell Wood and Christina Moore, ''War and 
Sacrifice,'' will help all of us understand how our neighbors in and 
around Snohomish County contributed to this nation's largest war effort 
at home and abroad.

I thank Janell and Christina for their work recording the individual 
histories of this diverse group that came together to defeat the Axis 
Powers. I also recognize the following individuals whose experiences 
during World War II comprise this book, and honor them for their 
service:

Lois Auchterlonie, Elwood Barker, William Brayton, Donald Brown, 
Lawrence ''Maggie'' Bryant, Jospeh Burkard, Dan Burris, H.B. ''Chris'' 
Christie, Paul Cormier, Herbert Courtney, William Dean, Ted Dufour, Roy 
Eastman, Fred Ensslin, Earl Horn, William Huested, Frank Hutchins, Leo 
Hymas, Stanley Innes, Edwin Kirchgessner, Grace Kortbein, Arthur 
Langdon, Marcelle ''Honey'' Langdon, Arthur Larson, Eleanor Leight, 
Leonard Martin, Harold McMahon, Truman Merritt, William Miller, William 
Moore, Robert Otto, David Pesznecker, Wallace Pesznecker, Art Poier, 
Paul Schaus, Ervin Schmidt, Allen Stewart, Jack Terhar, George 
Thorleifson, William Tygret, Louise Vandervanter, Maurice Vincent, Mick 
Wagelie, Jack Walter, Maynard Wege, Theodore West, Lonnie Williams, and 
Robert Willingham.

Our nation's triumph in World War II could not have occurred without 
the hard work and sacrifice of these men and women and millions of 
others who gave up ordinary jobs as teachers, factory workers, and 
businessmen to fight enemies of freedom around the world.

Upon returning to the United States and civilian life, these brave 
men and women helped America achieve an era of unprecedented economic 
prosperity.

To the veterans of World War II, and those that supported them, thank 
you for service to our country, and your involvement in our community.
