# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `beee086a107b643c3ab3192d48e73419`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 22 March 2007`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, I have a special thanks to our chairman 
and ranking member, who have been enormously diligent on this budget 
issue. Chairman Conrad has done a phenomenal job in bringing together a 
budget that reflects values for this country and for the American 
people. We are grateful to him for spending so much time, along with 
the members of the Budget Committee, in doing that.

I rise today to offer this amendment with my friend and colleague 
from Maine, Senator Snowe. It is an amendment to the budget resolution 
that would provide an additional $70 million for the Veterans Benefits 
Administration. It is not a huge amount, but it is a necessary amount. 
This very much needed funding would provide the Veterans Benefits 
Administration with additional resources and staff to more effectively 
meet its increasing workload and its growing backlog of pending claims.

We have seen a tremendous pressure put on our Veterans' 
Administration over the last several years. The veterans of this 
country, who have given so selflessly to this country in their service, 
in return deserve the services they have been promised. It is so 
important that the Veterans' Administration is able to process those 
requests.

Chairman Akaka and Senator Murray have certainly shown tremendous 
leadership on behalf of our veterans. I thank them from the bottom of 
my heart. I thank them for all they have done. I also commend my 
colleague Chairman Conrad for this budget resolution which does so much 
in reflecting our Nation's commitment to our veterans. We know the 
chairman has put in here much needed resources for the VA. Those of us 
who believe so strongly in our veterans appreciate that.

I am here today to build off of that great work these individuals 
have done. Delivering timely and accurate benefits to the brave men and 
women who have served our Nation in uniform should be a priority for 
each of us. The current backlog of pending disability and compensation 
claims has been listed as one of the VA's highest management priorities 
over the past several years. Yet the backlog that exists there is 
growing each and every day. The number of veterans who are contacting 
our office, our congressional office in Arkansas, who need help in 
navigating the disability claims arena at the VA, is so huge. 
Unfortunately, the time that begins to lag becomes years--not weeks or 
days but years--that our veterans are not getting the services they 
need because of this claims process.

With an aging veteran population and more and more service men and 
women who are returning from overseas, the numbers of these claims will 
continue to increase, and the problem also becomes that our older 
veterans who have claims and have had claims existing for a long time, 
unfortunately, with newer veterans who are returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan, they get pushed to the front of the line oftentimes. It is 
an unreasonable situation for the VA to be in.

The complexity of these claims has also increased as the health of 
our aging veterans has worsened and we are seeing a growing number of 
complex new claims that are resulting from complex combat-related 
injuries, such as PTSD and traumatic brain injuries.

Unfortunately, the increase in the growing complexity of these 
claims, coupled with the lack of resources by the VA, has contributed 
to an unacceptably large claims backlog that continues to cause undue 
hardship for our veterans and their families all across this country.

We all agree the claims process should be more timely and more 
accurate. While there are a number of fundamental changes that need to 
be made, the least we can do is better provide the VA with the 
resources and the staff they so desperately need.

Last year the backlog of pending compensation and pension claims was 
nearly 586,000. As of last week, the backlog had grown to over 647,000.

The most time-consuming and labor-intensive claims to process are the 
disability claims which require rating decisions. Last year the backlog 
of disability claims was nearly 372,000. Today it has grown to 405,000. 
This amendment would address the growing backlog of pending disability 
claims by providing $65 million to hire an additional 600 disability 
claims processors.

As the VA receives and adjudicates more claims, it results in a 
larger number of appeals. That backlog of claims also continues to 
grow, and that is why this amendment would provide $4 million for the 
Board of Veterans' Appeals to hire 32 additional full-time staff.

Additional funds are also necessary to increase training for current 
employees as well as any new employees to ensure consistency of claims 
processing and to lower error rates. That is why this amendment would 
provide the 1-year cost for increased training resources and quality 
measures with $400,000 for training and performance support systems and 
$400,000 for skill certification.

I was taught at an early age about the sacrifices our troops and 
their families have made to keep our Nation free. My father and 
grandfathers both served in uniform; my father in Korea as an 
infantryman, I had both grandfathers who served the Nation in World War 
I. That is why I am here today.

These veterans have given so much. They have given so much, as have 
their families. But to sit in waiting for years to get an answer from 
the VA is absolutely unacceptable, simply because we are not willing to 
put the staff there that needs to be there to deal with the volume of 
people who are coming.

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, which would simply 
allow the VA to better process and award the benefits to which they are 
entitled by law. This does not create any new benefits. It simply gives 
them access to the benefits they already need and deserve.

I would ask my colleagues to check with your staff and check with 
your offices to see the disability claims you are dealing with for 
veterans in your State and see how many of them have such a lengthy 
time that you would love to be able to erase.

The lessons ingrained in me since my childhood have taught me that 
after a person has served in the military, we should make every effort, 
absolutely every effort, to care for them and for their families and to 
honor the benefits they have earned. It is the least we can do for 
those to whom we owe so much. It is the least we can do to reassure 
future generations that a grateful nation will not forget them when 
their military service is complete.

I urge my colleagues to support us on this amendment. We know that, 
as I said, the Budget Committee has done a good job in putting forth a 
responsible budget but one that truly recognizes the needs of our 
veterans. This is one small measure where we can assure the resources 
will be there to hire the staff, to ensure the backlog in these claims 
can be taken care of.

I appreciate, again, the chairman and the ranking member of the 
Budget Committee. I thank them for the incredible job they have done. I 
encourage my colleagues to support this amendment on behalf of the many 
veterans, with whom each and every one of us in our offices works, to 
ensure we can get them a timely response on their claims with the VA.