# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `bef3afb879ea75d324ca2b04c4068975`
`Mr. ALLARD — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. ALLARD. I rise to discuss the war in Iraq and specifically the 
legislation at hand which directs the President to transition the 
mission of U.S. forces in Iraq.

The Senate has voted on this same issue on four separate occasions in 
this session alone. Not one of those times did the measure receive even 
one-third of the Senate's support. Nonetheless, here we are again 
debating the policies of the war.

Let me be clear. There is certainly nothing wrong with openly 
debating those policies. It is our responsibility as Members of this 
body to discuss thoroughly what is arguably the most important and 
defining issue of our day. In fact, I find it highly curious there was 
an attempt to castigate those who voted for this debate and who wanted 
the full 30 hours to talk about this vital issue. Some in this body 
seem to have perhaps been a little too clever and tried to summon as 
much outrage against debating this matter as they were prepared to use 
in support of debate.

I do question exactly what those in support of this bill hoped to 
realistically accomplish with this debate and this legislation before 
us given the gains that have been made through the surge strategy. Last 
May when the surge was being implemented, only 29 Senators voted for 
similar legislation. Undoubtedly, much has changed for the better since 
that point. Violence in Iraq is down 60 percent since the start of the 
surge and 80 percent in and around Iraq. There has been a 30-percent 
increase since June in insurgent weapon caches discovered. Economic 
improvements continue. Oil production is constantly increasing, up 50 
percent from this time last year. And oil revenues are nearly double 
what they were last year. In Baghdad alone, 21 new health clinics 
opened this year, 1,885 new schools have been built, and another 1,604 
have been refurbished throughout Iraq.

Because of reconstruction and rebuilding, electricity demand is up 25 
percent. A year ago, it would have been laughable to suggest that Anbar 
Province be transferred to Iraqi control. But that will happen in May. 
When this occurs, Anbar will be 10 out of 18 provinces under full Iraqi 
control.

The city of Ramadi in Anbar was once one of the most dangerous cities 
in Iraq. It is now one of its safest following the surge. The number of 
U.S. combat battalions operating in Ramadi has decreased from five to 
two in less than a year.

An Army combat brigade that has been stationed in Ramadi for over a 
year is scheduled to leave the area in March and is not scheduled to be 
replaced. The United States is on pace to transfer control of all Iraqi 
provinces by the end of the year.

The surge strategy is brilliant in its simplicity: Exert our military 
forces to quell insurgent violence in order to create an environment 
suitable for fostering and sustaining a legitimate government capable 
of governing its citizens. Real political progress will only be reached 
when Iraqis feel secure, and the results of the surge are proving this 
to be exactly the case.

Thus far the surge is producing its intended results by eliminating 
terrorists, interrupting communications between insurgents in many 
areas in Iraq, and ensuring safety for the people which, in turn, 
allows far broader, far greater cooperation and association with the 
United States.

Only with these security improvements do Iraqis have a reasonable 
chance of finding a political solution. This strategy is convincing 
many Iraqis to abandon terrorist methods and turn against groups such 
as al-Qaida.

Our efforts are reuniting torn communities and enabling political 
process. Obviously, this Nation would have been better served had the 
surge strategy been implemented earlier. But the ability to criticize 
strategy is not the same as the ability to strategize.

So I applaud those who did finally implement the surge strategy and 
congratulate them on their vision. As we know, Iraq must stand up 
before we can stand down. Again, David Petraeus has stated there cannot 
be solely a military solution to violence without political action. And 
he is absolutely correct in his assertion.

In recent weeks, Iraqis have made tremendous political strides under 
what are still difficult and onerous conditions and as a result 
increased security in their nation. February 13 saw the Council of 
Representatives pass three key pieces of legislation: amnesty for Sunni 
security detainees, a provincial powers law, and a budget.

Debaathification reform was enacted last month as well.

Let's talk about those political accomplishments. The general amnesty 
law passed by the Shiite-majority Parliament sets the guidelines in 
providing amnesty for thousands of detainees held in Iraq detention 
facilities. This helps to remove one of the greatest stumbling blocks 
to reconciliation between Sunnis and Shiites.

The Iraqi Parliament has also passed the provincial powers law which 
outlines the balance of authorities between the central and local 
governments while also specifying that provincial elections be held on 
October 1 of this year. The Iraqi Parliament approved a $48 billion 
budget, representing a step toward Iraq using its own resources to 
provide for security and infrastructure reconstruction. This Sunni-Shia 
compromise budget allows the Kurds a larger share of the budget, which 
is 17 percent. Iraqi oil revenues have soared with the rise of global 
prices, and Iraqi production has increased due to gains in security. 
The money is now going to the provinces on a regular basis where it 
will fund urgently needed reconstruction and humanitarian relief. The 
Iraqi Government is now providing the kind of services that give the 
Iraqi people a stake in their own success.

Finally, the President's council approved the law of accountability 
and justice on February 3, 2008. This law could allow thousands of 
former Ba'ath party officials to return to Government jobs and receive 
pensions, helping the reconciliation process and stimulating the 
economy. In addition, even more groundbreaking legislation is slated 
for consideration in the very near future. These initiatives include a 
hydrocarbons law to determine the level of control allocated to the 
central Government as well as an election law that is being drafted 
currently by the Prime Minister's office. While the job is far


from over and much work is still required, these recent accomplishments 
on the political and economic fronts continue to gather momentum and 
show important signs of progress and create reasons for optimism. There 
is much criticism of flaws in the Iraqi Government's processes and 
outcomes, but any Member of this body who considers throwing stones in 
that direction should first glance at any newspaper, news show, citizen 
rally, or public opinion poll, and reflect on who among us is producing 
perfect and flawless legislation.

Even the media, which has often been one-sided on the war, has for 
several months now been forced to report that the surge and coalition 
efforts have been succeeding. Let's look at some of the headlines:

The Washington Post, February 23, 2007, ''Sadr Extends Truce in 
Iraq''; the Los Angeles Times, February 22, 2008, ''U.S. Micro-Loan 
Effort Yields Big Results in Iraqi Province''; the Colorado Springs 
Gazette, February 18, 2008, ''Baghdad Neighborhood is a Model of 
Progress''; Reuters, February 16 of this year, ''Attacks in Baghdad 
Fall 80 Percent''; Reuters, a February 13 article, ''Iraq Lawmakers 
Pass Key Budget and Amnesty Laws''; Reuters on January 17 of 2008, 
''Iraqi Forces Could Control All Provinces This Year''; even the New 
York Times, February 14, 2008, ''Making (Some) Progress in Iraq''; the 
Washington Post on February 10, 2008, ''Diary of an Insurgent in 
Retreat: Al-Qaeda in Iraq Figure Lists Woes''; the AP, February 2, 
2008, ''Lynch: US Surge Tipped Scales in Iraq''; an AP article on 
January 21, 2008, ''U.N. Envoy Applauds Cut in Iraqi Violence''; the 
Winston-Salem Journal, February 12, 2008, ''Iraq is Much Changed Since 
Surge Started One Year Ago''; Tacoma News Tribune, February 14, 2008, 
''Iraq Reaches Benchmark for Healing.''

Coalition success is being seen all over Iraq. It is being reported. 
The only people who seem to refuse to see it or admit we are winning in 
Iraq are my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who continue time 
and again to bring this issue to the floor claiming that the surge has 
not worked and urging immediate troop withdrawal. Certain Members of 
Congress continue to deny that any progress has been made. Earlier this 
month the Speaker of the House described the surge as a failure. 
Opponents long criticized the administration for not sending more 
troops to Iraq. But when this strategy was installed, it was also 
attacked as opponents declared that this effort was essentially too 
little, too late. When the surge began to show great military success, 
it faded from the floor of this body.

That is why we welcome the chance to spend 30 hours on this topic. It 
is a shame that now, when both military and political success is being 
realized, we are only debating whether to retreat. If that is the 
ground the majority wishes to stand on, so be it.

For a moment let's consider the severity of the issue at hand. We are 
debating whether to deploy our forces which would essentially concede 
the country to whatever group eventually gains control that would 
likely plunge the country into further unrest and chaos. It seems we 
are acting under the assumption that if we get all of our forces out, 
we can slam the door behind us and all will be fine. This policy fails 
to lend any consideration to what would certainly be dire consequences 
that would ensue as a result of our Nation abandoning Iraq at this 
critical juncture. To do this would simply be irresponsible and 
shortsighted. Iraq is the pivotal front in our global war on terror. To 
intentionally abandon our progress and lose the battle would surely 
cause irrevocable harm to our efforts to secure our Nation. Osama bin 
Laden had referred to Iraq as the central front in the war against 
America and the West. Al-Qaida in Iraq shares this view of the 
situation. Leaving prematurely would only strengthen al-Qaida and 
enable terrorists to set up training camps in Iraq and plot further 
attacks on the United States.

The National Intelligence Council stated:




 If such a rapid withdrawal were to take place, we judge 


 that al Qaeda in Iraq would attempt to use parts of the 


 country--particularly al-Anbar province--to plan increased 


 attacks in and outside Iraq.


By passing this legislation, we would be running away from a war from 
the floor of the Senate. When has it ever been sound policy for 
legislators to micromanage a war from Washington? I don't ever recall 
in our history this tactic being successful in achieving our strategic 
goals. In fact, let me remind our colleagues, we have seen terrible 
results from political motives being placed above military necessity. 
Installing an artificial deadline is not what we need. It is not what 
is good for the Nation. It is not good for the future of Iraq and the 
long-term stability of that region. We have heard from our military 
intelligence professionals who have warned about the possible 
consequences of hasty withdrawal and the potentially catastrophic 
results that may ensue. We should also listen to our folks on the 
ground. I have heard time and time again from our service men and women 
from all branches of the military who have returned from Iraq that 
progress is being made, and they are proud of the contributions they 
are making to this Nation and to the long-term stability of Iraq and 
the Middle East.

In my lifetime I have witnessed few events that compare to the joy 
and jubilation that accompany the homecoming of a military unit. When I 
have seen a brigade return home to Fort Carson or a wing to Peterson 
Air Force base, there are no words to describe the sheer emotion of 
seeing families returned to loved ones and friends. However, 
redeploying our forces at this point is not the proper course of action 
and not in the best interests of our Nation. Our military does not 
exist just to come marching home, and our military understands this. 
They exist to fight our enemies and secure our vital national 
interests. Removing Saddam Hussein from power was in our national 
interest. Stability in the Middle East is in our national interest. 
Securing Iraq from terrorist control is in our national interest. 
Pandering speeches about bringing the troops home that strive for mere 
political points and fail to acknowledge strategic realities are not in 
our national interest.


We still have a job that needs to be completed. We still have work to 
do. When the time is right, we will redeploy responsibly. The Iraqi 
Government is making progress. We are beginning to be able to stand 
down to a greater extent than we have in the past. General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker will return to Washington and report on the progress 
in Iraq in April. We owe to it our men and women in harm's way to 
listen to the experts and make our decisions off of their findings.

I yield the floor.