---
---

# KAZAKHSTAN'S VISION OF A MORE EFFECTIVE OSCE
## `bef85e367bd99e2e88e2b7d8c83f026e`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 2 February 2010`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
Kazakhstan's new role as chairmanship of the Organization for Security 
and Co-operation in Europe, OSCE. The decision by the OSCE 
participating states to appoint Kazakhstan as its chair for 2010 marks 
the first time that a former Soviet state will take on this leadership 
role. The decision was not without controversy, and I would like to 
acknowledge the efforts made over the past two decades to establish 
democracy and a market economy. I look forward to full implementation 
of the promises of reform made by Kazakhstan at the 2007 OSCE Madrid 
Ministerial. In a January 2010 video address, President Nazarbayev told 
the OSCE Permanent Council that, ''Kazakhstan as the holder of the OSCE 
Chairmanship is firmly committed to the fundamental principles and 
values of the OSCE.'' I welcome and applaud this statement as well as 
Chairman-in-Office Saudabayev's Permanent Council statement that, 
''further steps in the area of democratization in Kazakhstan will be 
fully in line with the goals and tasks that we have set ourselves 
during our Chairmanship.''

This month, Kazakhstan Secretary of State-Foreign Minister Kanat 
Saudabayev has officially assumed his role as chairman-in-office of the 
OSCE and I believe he will dedicate his efforts toward realizing 
Kazakhstan's vision and goals for the OSCE this year. I know Chairman-
in-Office Saudabayev's objective is to make the organization even more 
valid, useful, and effective. I commend Kazakhstan's effective 
preparation for the chairmanship, and welcome the deepening cooperation 
between Kazakhstan and the U.S. to make the chairmanship a success.

On January 14, Chairman-in-Office Saudabayev outlined his country's 
plan for executing Kazakhstan's strategic vision. In light of increased 
threats to international security, including illicit drug trafficking 
and terrorism, Kazakhstan will focus on preventing conflicts that 
result in tragedy and disaster. It is important that the United States 
support these efforts. I also support Chairman-in-Office Saudabayev's 
intention to continue to focus on the OSCE's human dimension.

One area of focus for Kazakhstan as chairmanship of the OSCE will be 
to address issues pertinent to the developing situation in Afghanistan. 
In fact, Chairman-in-Office Saudabayev has stated that a principal goal 
is to help the Afghan people leave behind their militaristic world and 
develop a lasting peaceful and productive society. To achieve this 
Kazakhstan has donated $50 million to a new program which will provide 
vocational training to 1,000 Afghanis at Kazakh universities. Chairman-
in-Office Saudabayev also intends to develop cooperative projects that 
strengthen the border and improve law enforcement practices, and I 
support increasing OSCE involvement in this regard.

Beyond the global peril of Afghanistan is the issue of nuclear 
disarmament. As a former Soviet state, Kazakhstan should be applauded 
for its decision to eradicate its inherited nuclear arsenal and for its 
example and leadership in nuclear nonproliferation. With the mantle of 
OSCE leadership, Chairman-in-Office Saudabayev will work with the OSCE 
to achieve increased global security.

I commend Kazakhstan for prioritizing the fight against the 
deplorable and growing concern of human trafficking, particularly that 
of children. Trafficking has become a major international concern that 
warrants the attention and cooperation of the OSCE states to develop 
effective solutions to eliminate such practices.

Chairman-in-Office Saudabayev has also expressed the need for 
increased tolerance and equality, especially with regard to religion, 
race, and gender. Various conferences and meetings are already in place 
to discuss the implementation of previous decisions concerning these 
areas. I plan to attend at least one of the conferences. And I will 
encourage colleagues to attend as well.

Finally, as many of my colleagues would agree, energy security 
remains a critical global concern. Kazakhstan, with its significant 
oil, gas and mining potential, plays a key role as a reliable energy 
supplier. The past two years has seen significant challenges to energy 
supply and distribution in the OSCE region and there is much that the 
OSCE could be doing to help mediate differences and encourage greater 
transparency in this area. I am confident that Chairman-in-Office 
Saudabayev will bring to bear his country's experience and expertise in 
energy issues to create greater capacity for energy security both 
politically and institutionally in the OSCE.

I look forward to helping and following the progress of the OSCE 
under the leadership of Kazakhstan.

The priorities outlined by Chairman-in-Office Saudabayev demonstrate 
the challenges ahead for the OSCE. I wish Chairman-in-Office Saudabayev 
and the entire Republic of Kazakhstan well as the OSCE chairmanship. It 
is my hope that by the close of 2010, we will see Kazakhstan's OSCE 
leadership manifested through positive outcomes.




U.S. Official on Commencement of Kazakhstan's OSCE Chairmanship









(By Robert O. Blake, Jr., Jan. 20, 2010)




 As Kazakhstan begins to serve as the Chairman-In-Office of 


 the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe this 


 year, it is charting a course for a bright and promising 


 future.



 It is a future in which the United States and Kazakhstan 


 together seek peace, security, economic development and 


 prosperity. We seek democratic values and human rights that 


 unite free nations in trust and in respect. We seek a region 


 in which relations are good between neighbors, between Russia 


 and China and Afghanistan and all others in the region and of 


 course with the United States.



 Kazakhstan has been a leader in international security 


 since its earliest days of independence. After the end of the 


 Cold War, the world applauded as Kazakhstan renounced its 


 nuclear weapons, closed the nuclear test site at 


 Semipalatinsk, and freely transferred over half a ton of 


 weapons-grade uranium to secure sites outside the country 


 under Project Sapphire.



 This past December, we marked the sixteenth anniversary of 


 the landmark Cooperative Threat Reduction Program in 


 Kazakhstan and we continue to work in partnership with 


 Kazakhstan to advance our common non-proliferation goals. In 


 April President Obama will welcome President Nazarbayev and 


 other world leaders to the Global Nuclear Security Summit he 


 will host.



 Since its independence, Kazakhstan has also set an example 


 in the region with economic reforms that have attracted 


 investment and created jobs. The Government of Kazakhstan is 


 also making wise choices to develop multiple energy export 


 routes and to diversify its economy to ensure that its vast 


 oil wealth can become a source for social mobility, not 


 social stagnation.



 As Kazakhstan's economy continues to recover from the 


 global economic downturn, it should again be an engine for 


 growth within Central Asia. Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan and 


 Tajikistan would benefit immensely from Kazakhstan) 


 investment and energy supplies to stimulate growth and create 


 jobs.



 And Afghanistan needs the full partnership of Kazakhstan to 


 overcome the destitution that extremists, warlords, and civil 


 war have compounded over several decades. Kazakhstan is 


 providing vital logistical support to the International 


 Security Assistance Force through the Northern Distribution 


 Network. We welcome Astana's decision to invest in 


 Afghanistan's next generation of leaders by generously 


 allocating $50 million to fund scholarships for a thousand 


 Afghan students to study In Kazakhstan.



 Kazakhstan's OSCE Chairmanship is highly symbolic. The OSCE 


 had long prided itself for stretching from Vancouver to 


 Vladisvostok. Now, for the very first time, a major 


 international organization is headed by a new country east of 


 Vienna. It is a recognition that the OSCE draws its strength 


 not only from Europe and the United States, but also from 


 Central Asia, the Caucasus, and the Balkans.



 The challenges facing the OSCE and the international 


 community are real but our strength comes from facing those 


 challenges collectively and with a common purpose. The United 


 States looks forward to working with Kazakhstan this year to 


 meet these challenges and achieve the goal of modernizing and 


 strengthening the OSCE, for the benefit of all participating 


 States.



 Kazakhstan has successfully navigated the early stages of 


 statehood. It has achieved a position of leadership on 


 international security and economic development. And now, 


 Kazakhstan, as the OSCE Chairman-in-Office has an 


 unprecedented opportunity to lead Central Asia towards a 


 future of democracy and to advance its own reform agenda to 


 unleash the creative energy of its people.



 With continued reform, Kazakhstan can become the nexus of 


 Eurasia in the 21st century, the point where all roads cross. 


 For thousands of years, along the ancient Silk Road, the 


 communities of Central Asia facilitated the global exchange 


 of ideas, and trade, and culture. In the process, they made 


 historic contributions to our collective human heritage.



 Today, as Kazakhstan assumes the OSCE mantle, it is poised 


 and ready to break a fresh path for a new Silk Road, a great 


 crossroads of reform linking the provinces of northern Russia 


 to the ports of South Asia, the republics of Western Europe 


 to the democracies of East Asia.



 A strong and prosperous and democratic Kazakhstan can 


 energize the global transmission of learning, trade and 


 freedom across the steppes of Central Asia. Kazakhstan has a 


 glorious past and can seize a hopeful future. The United 


 States will continue to be Kazakhstan's steadfast partner.
