---
---

# ENERGY JOBS FOR VETERANS ACT
## `befe41a6aafe214f63b4c758c75a1212`
`Mr. TEAGUE — 22 March 2010`

---


Mr. TEAGUE. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, H.R. 
4592, the Energy Jobs for Veterans Act. I would like to thank Chairman 
Filner for bringing this legislation to the floor and Chairwoman 
Herseth Sandlin and Ranking Member Boozman for their assistance in 
crafting this legislation. Finally, I would like to thank the 
Democratic and Republican professional staff of the Economic 
Opportunity Subcommittee, namely, Juan Lara, Javier Martinez, and Mike 
Brink, for their work and expertise.

Madam Speaker, our dependence on foreign oil threatens our national 
security and the lives and safety of our men and women in uniform 
serving their country overseas. When the fierce global competition for 
petroleum drives up the price of crude, millions upon millions of 
dollars flow into the coffers of nations that don't like us too much. 
In too many cases, that money has financed weapons and operations that 
have resulted in the deaths of American soldiers.

What can we do about it? It's simple. Produce our energy in America, 
instead of importing it from Iran, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, and 
Venezuela.

How do we do it? Also straightforward. We invest in the production of 
energy right here in America. We produce American oil. We produce 
clean-burning American natural gas. We extract liquid fuels from algae. 
We construct wind and solar farms. We make our homes more efficient, 
and we invest in nuclear power.

What's the result? We keep our money at home. We create energy jobs 
all over America, and we bolster our national security.

My bill means that those who fought for their country abroad would be 
able to continue their work for the security of our country when they 
return home by getting a job and a career producing our energy right 
here in America.

My bill says, if you risked your life for your country fighting 
enemies funded by foreign oil purchased with American dollars, then you 
can come home and continue your work for our national security, this 
time with a career in the energy industry.

The Energy Jobs for Veterans Act will incentivize employers to hire 
veterans for jobs being created by American energy. The bill instructs 
the Department of Labor to award competitive grants to three States to 
establish programs to reimburse employers and other organizations for 
providing on-the-job training and apprenticeship programs for veterans 
that are employed by energy companies. The bill will allow States to 
reimburse employers for training and apprenticeship provided to veteran 
employees.

Unlike other employment programs for veterans that fund training but 
don't guarantee employment, the Energy Jobs for Veterans Act 
incentivizes companies to hire veterans in the first place, and ensures 
that veterans are learning on the job and collecting valuable work 
experience from the beginning.

Eligible energy employers are those involved in the energy efficient 
building, construction, and retrofits industry, the renewable electric 
power industry, the biofuels industry, the energy efficiency assessment 
industry, the oil and gas industry, and the nuclear industry.



This is a pilot program and it's 100 percent competitive. The 
Secretary of Labor must make the awards to the most competitive 
applications for funds. If this works, we can expand to more States and 
different industries.

Madam Speaker, now let's get down to why it is really important.

On March 12th, the Labor Department announced that the unemployment 
rate last year for young Iraq and Afghanistan veterans hit 21.1 
percent. The number was well above the 16.6 percent jobless rate for 
nonveterans of that same age group, 18-24. As of last year, 1.9 million 
had deployed for the wars since 9/11. Many have struggled with mental 
health problems, addiction, and homelessness as they return home. 
Difficulty in finding work can make the adjustments much harder.

Our veterans were on the front lines defending our freedom. We can't 
leave them behind now. I urge my colleagues to join me in passing this 
bill.

I will enter into the Record these seven letters of support for my 
bill from my congressional district.















Marine Corps League of New Mexico,


























 March 22, 2010.


 Representative Harry Teague.



 Sir: I have just received a copy of Bill H.R. 4592.



 I am Marine Corps League Department Commandant for the 


 state of New Mexico. You have the support of the League as 


 well as my personal vote of approval of H.R. 4592. The 


 returning service personnel need all the assistance we as 


 Americans can give them.





 Sincerely,

























Vernon Mollan,

















Commandant of Marine Corps League,


 State of New Mexico.