# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `bf00f28adaed8caf8c3844c146a5a907`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 24 September 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I stand here today with a 
heavy heart as I cast my vote against S. 3001, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009. While I support our men and 
women in the armed forces and our need to ensure our national security, 
I cannot with a clear conscience support a National Defense 
Authorization bill that includes money for Iraq without time-lines for 
an exodus.

Samuel Adams, who was known as the Father of the American Revolution, 
stated ''All might be free if they valued freedom, and defended it as 
they should.'' While most of us value freedom, many of us do not risk 
our lives for it on a daily basis like our troops fighting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.
















H. Con. Res. 320


That is why I chose to celebrate one of our heroic daughters of 
Texas, Specialist Monica L. Brown of the United States Army with House 
Concurrent Resolution 320 for her efforts earlier this year.

Specialist Brown was the first woman in Afghanistan and only the 
second female soldier since World War II to receive the Silver Star, 
the Nation's third-highest medal for valor. This solider from Lake 
Jackson, Texas is only 19 years old.

On April 25, 2007, Specialist Brown was part of a four-vehicle convoy 
patrolling near Jani Kheil in the eastern province of Paktia when a 
bomb struck one of the Humvees.

When Specialist Brown saw her fellow soldiers were injured, she 
grabbed her aid bag and started running toward the burning vehicle as 
insurgents opened fire. All five wounded soldiers from her platoon 
scrambled out. Under this commotion, she assessed her patients and 
moved them to a safer location because they were still receiving 
incoming fire.

The Pentagon's official policy is to prohibit women from serving in 
front line combat roles in the infantry, armor or artillery, but the 
nature of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, with no real front lines, 
has seen women soldiers take part in close quarters combat more than 
previous conflicts.

Though I have opposed the war in Iraq from its inception, I remain 
absolutely committed to ensuring that we recognize, celebrate, and 
honor the service of our sons and daughters returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do, and 
I firmly believe that we must commend the men and women of our military 
for their exemplary performance and success in Iraq.

















Defense BIll


This defense bill reflects our commitment to support the men and 
women who fight to secure not only our citizens' freedom but 
the freedom of others. This bill will provide the necessary resources 
to protect the American people and our national interests at home and 
abroad. The Armed Services committee has provided for military 
readiness; taking care of our troops and their families; increasing 
focus on the war in Afghanistan; and improving interagency cooperation, 
oversight, and accountability in this year's defense authorization 
bill.















 Defense Provisions


We must maintain our efforts to restore military readiness in order 
to meet current military challenges and prepare for the future. 
Thankfully, this defense bill:

Provides fair compensation and first-rate health care, and improve 
the quality of life of the men and women in the armed forces (active 
duty, National Guard and Reserves) and their families.

Provides our servicemen and women with the resources, training, 
technology, equipment (especially force protection) and authorities 
they need to succeed in combat and stability operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

Seeks to reduce our Nation's strategic risk by taking action aimed at 
restoring, as soon as possible, the readiness of the military services 
to conduct the full range of their assigned missions.

Improves the efficiency of Defense Department programs and 
activities, and applies the savings toward high-priority programs.

Improves the ability of the armed forces to counter nontraditional 
threats, including terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction.

Promotes the transformation of the armed forces to deal with the 
threats of the 21st century.

Ensures aggressive and thorough oversight of the Department's 
programs and activities to ensure proper stewardship of taxpayer 
dollars and compliance with relevant laws and regulations.














Thank You to Our Troops


We must extol our military for their courage and sacrifice in 
Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. The United 
States cannot and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi government 
and military. Whether or not my colleagues agree that the time has come 
to withdraw our American forces from Iraq, I believe that all of us are 
of one accord that our troops deserve our sincere thanks and 
congratulations.

The United States Armed Forces successfully toppled the regime of 
Saddam Hussein and captured the key cities of Iraq in only 21 days. The 
Armed Forces performed magnificently in conducting military operations 
designed to ensure that the people of Iraq would enjoy the benefits of 
a democratically-elected government governing a county that is capable 
of sustaining itself economically and politically and defending itself 
militarily.

While our troops have achieved the objectives for which they were 
sent to Iraq, they are now caught in the midst of a sectarian conflict. 
Unfortunately, there is no military solution to Iraq's ongoing 
political and sectarian conflicts.

The objectives for which this Congress authorized war in Iraq have 
been met; therefore, that authorization should no longer be the basis 
for ongoing involvement by U.S. armed forces. Our military has already 
paid too heavy a price for this Administration's ill-advised and poorly 
planned war effort in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, although I appreciate the need to protect our great 
nation from enemies both foreign and domestic, and I support without 
hesitation our troops, I cannot in clear conscious support S. 3001 
without clear withdrawal timelines for Iraq. I yield back the balance 
of my time.

However, I will continue supporting the funding that is particular to 
supporting our troops, their families and our veterans.