# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `bf0c95a381a9d1b83e5ae03768407b80`
`Mr. McKEON — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the long delayed 
troop funding supplemental. The failure to pass this supplemental 
before the August work period would result in severe consequences to 
our military departments.

Last Thursday, Undersecretaries of the Army, Navy, and Air Force 
testified at our committee that, without this supplemental, their 
services will be dangerously close to the point of having to furlough 
Department of Defense employees. According to Robert Work, 
Undersecretary of the Navy, the failure to pass the supplemental before 
the recess would ''hamstring the department's operations for the 
remainder of the year and significantly disrupt operations within the 
department.''

Madam Speaker, these are departments at war. The President sent us 
his troop funding request in February. Our former commander in 
Afghanistan, General McChrystal, urged its passage by Memorial Day. 
Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said if the supplemental were not 
passed by the Fourth of July recess, the department would have to 
resort to doing stupid things. Now we are 60 days past Memorial Day.

Those of us here in Congress cannot lose sight of the broader 
perspective. Our brave military men and women and their civilian 
counterparts are in the midst of a tough fight that is critical to U.S. 
national security. Cutting off their funding in the middle of that 
fight is tantamount to abandonment. I have confidence that General 
Petraeus and our troops will succeed in Afghanistan if given the time, 
space, and resources they need to complete their mission.

In December and again when we tapped General Petraeus, the President 
reminded us of why we are in Afghanistan. It was the epicenter of where 
al Qaeda planned and launched the 9/11 attacks against innocent 
Americans. The timeline for success in Afghanistan can not be dictated 
by arbitrary political clocks here in Washington. It must be driven by 
the operational clock in Kabul, Kandahar, and the Afghan countryside. 
We all hope and pray that this goal can be accomplished by July 2011, 
but conditions on the ground must dictate the pace of any withdrawal.

The Democratic leadership in the House has tried to advance their 
domestic political agenda on the backs of our forces while at the same 
time permitting one antiwar measure after another to be debated on the 
House floor. This is cynical and wrong.

A vote on a clean troop funding bill is long overdue. We should have 
accomplished this work months ago, not in the last minutes before we 
adjourn for the August work period. We must send this troop funding to 
the President without further delay. I encourage all Members to send a 
clear message to our military men and women by supporting this critical 
troop funding bill.

This Congress believes in you. We support you and we honor your 
dedication.

