---
---

# ENERGY SECURITY
## `bf0fa26f689697dcbdd439694a027f25`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 8 May 2008`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Madam President, next Tuesday--not Monday but 
Tuesday--we are going to have a series of votes and ultimately get to 
the final vote on the flood insurance bill. And miraculously, out of 
the air comes a couple of energy packages side by side that we are 
going to be voting on.

It is very interesting that in one of those energy packages, that 
being offered by the Senator from New Mexico, Mr. Domenici, it will 
have a provision for drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf. Now, we 
have gone through this drill about drilling several times, the last of 
which, I want to remind the Senate, when the pro drilling for oil 
forces wanted an additional 2 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico, 
which would go east in the eastern Gulf of Mexico headed straight 
toward Tampa, FL, we worked out something that would satisfy all of the 
parties; that they would not have 2 million acres but they would have 8 
million acres--8 million acres, not 2 million acres. But it would be 
further to the south, not to the east and, therefore, would not harm 
the interests of Florida or the U.S. military.

I remind my colleagues that the U.S. military's largest testing and 
training area in the world is almost the entire Gulf of Mexico off of 
Florida. It is the pilot training for the new F-22 out of Tindale Air 
Force Base in Panama City. They have to have wide areas with which to 
do dog fighting, not at submach but at 1.5 mach, and the turning radius 
at 1.5 mach is extraordinary. When are you doing this with live fire 
exercises, you can imagine that you do not want anything down there on 
the surface of the water. By the way, that is also why all of the new 
F-35s, the new joint strike fighter pilot training, when that fighter 
is developed, will also be in that area.

It is also the reason the Navy now sends its squadrons down to the 
Key West Naval Air Station at Boca Chica, because when they lift off 
the runway at Boca Chica, in 2 minutes they are over restricted air 
space where they can do their pilot training. But it is also the area 
where we are testing some of our most sophisticated weapons systems, 
many of which are with live ordnance, and you simply cannot have oil 
rigs down there on the surface of the water where you are doing all of 
this in furtherance of the training and the testing in order to have 
the best military in the world.

Yet it is coming back. It is coming back again. Now this time it is a 
little easier for us because we etched it into law as to that 
additional lease area for drilling in the Gulf, and you have got to 
change the law. Until the last time, it had always been under a 
Presidential moratorium. So it will be more difficult for them to have 
to change this. But I bring this up because the attitude is tunnel 
vision about drill, drill, drill.

That is not how we are going to solve the problem. I mean, are we not 
going to wake up with $120 per barrel oil prices and, who knows, with 
the tight world oil market, if it is not going to keep going up?

And why is it at $120? We have had testimony here in the Senate from 
oil executives who say the typical supply-demand on the world market 
ought to


have the price of oil at $55 per barrel. If that testimony is accurate, 
why the difference then between $55 and $120?

I think part of the answer to that question is, you look at history. 
You see these spikes whenever there is an unsettling condition in the 
world. You saw that in the early 1970s in the oil embargo. You saw that 
again in the late 1970s with the Iranian capture of the American 
Embassy people and holding them hostage. You saw it again at the 
beginning of the 1990s with the first gulf war, when Saddam Hussein had 
moved on Kuwait. You have seen it again in this decade with the Iraq 
situation, and you see it now with the jitters about what is happening 
in the Middle East.

You see it also in the unsettling relationship we now have with the 
President of Venezuela, Hugo Chavez, who bombastically keeps 
threatening to cut off oil. Now, that is a hollow promise because we 
have the refineries that have to process his grade of crude. But over 
time he could change. Nevertheless, it unsettles the markets.

By the way, we get 14 percent of our oil daily, our daily consumption 
of oil, from Venezuela.

You see it also with regard to Nigeria. Mark my word. Nigeria is an 
accident waiting to happen with regard to the 12 percent of our daily 
consumption of oil that comes from Nigeria. And already the battery, 
the thievery, the kidnappings, all of that being done by criminal 
thugs, that is one threat. But I recall for the Senate the fact that in 
northern Nigeria, al-Qaida is ascending. So that is certainly one 
reason for the difference between what some people have testified that 
the supply and demand would have oil at $55, and instead it is at $120.

But there is another reason. That is the speculation on oil futures 
and bidding the price up that gets us to this point.

Now, I am giving all of this background to say, well, what do we do? 
Is the answer the tunnel vision or myopic vision of drill, drill, 
drill, or do we do what we know we have to do? And the question is, 
where is most of our oil consumed? It is in transportation. Where in 
transportation is most of the oil consumed? It is in our personal 
vehicles.

So why do we not get serious, as we had our first inkling that we 
are, by having more conservation with greater miles per gallon? We 
passed in this Senate 35 miles per gallon phased in all the way out 
until 2015.

In Japan today, they are running around in their cars at 50 miles per 
gallon. In Europe today, they have got an average of 43 miles per 
gallon. Why cannot America summon the political will to say we are 
going to do something different than what we have been doing in the 
past, and we are going to try to wean ourselves from dependence on 
foreign oil which makes up 60 percent of our daily consumption. If we 
had the political will, we could do it. And, of course, if we had the 
political will, we could not only do the miles per gallon, we would put 
the money into the research and development to ultimately get to 
cellulosic ethanol so we would not be making ethanol from what we need 
to eat, and instead we would be making it from fiber, from that which 
we throw away. If we summon the political will, we would get serious 
about conservation measures and renewable fuels such as wind and solar, 
all the more than we are now. We would get serious about a major R&D 
effort and pouring the money into it in order to start developing the 
engine of the future that does not depend on any kind of petrol, such 
as hydrogen, or perfecting these batteries so we can have an all-
electric vehicle. That is what we would be doing if we summoned the 
political will. At the end of the day, that is what we are going to 
have to do. It is going to have to be the new President who does it.

On this subject I will close by saying, America has a historical 
tendency to drag its feet until we are abruptly shoved up against the 
wall and we have to do something, and you see this throughout our two 
centuries of history.

There was at a time, for example, during the Korean war, the Soviets 
had the high ground. Their MiGs could fly higher than our jets. Again 
in 1958 they had the high ground, because they put up the first 
satellite, Sputnik. Again in 1961 they had the high ground, when they 
put up Yuri Gagarin, the first human to orbit the Earth.

We did not even have a vehicle that was powerful enough until 10 
months later when we put John Glenn in that flimsy Atlas that had a 20-
percent chance of failure, and finally got up.

Again, they had the high ground when they rendezvoused, the first 
time in space, with two spacecraft. They beat us to that. But then 
America summoned the political will when the President said: We are 
going to the Moon in 9 years and return. And we did. And we have the 
high ground now.

Now it is another complete subject--I will not get into it--about how 
we could be losing that high ground with NASA, because NASA is not 
getting enough resources for all of the things it is trying to do and, 
therefore, it is not going to have a chance to achieve and keep that 
high ground if we do not. But I will save that one for next week.













 Israel's 60th Anniversary


I yield the floor.