---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `bf10b20d7d392e188b114f8befc9bbfb`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 25 January 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I yield myself such time as I might use.

This is the fourth day that the Senate is addressing an issue of 
enormous importance to those on the lower end of the economic ladder--
an increase in the minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25. It is not a 
complicated issue. Everybody in this body knows what the issues are. 
Usually, we have great debates about complicated issues in the United 
States of America. Soon we will be debating varied policies with regard 
to Iraq, as we should. But this issue is a simple issue. It is an issue 
of simple justice. It is as old as many of us in this body. Minimum 
wage was advanced more than 70 years ago. We have increased it now nine 
times over recent years, and yet Republicans want to continue to delay, 
delay, delay, delay, delay, delay, delay; oppose, oppose, oppose.

There was opposition yesterday in insisting that we get cloture in 
the Senate on an increase in the minimum wage, requiring that we get 60 
votes before we can vote up or down on a simple, easy issue and 
question of fundamental fairness to workers in this country.

We are glad to have debates, but the message ought to go out to the 
American people exactly what is going on here on day 5 in the Senate on 
the issue of minimum wage. And we continue to have, as the minority 
leader said, scores--40, 50, more amendments, 90 amendments--on the 
issue of the increase in the minimum wage--90 amendments. Make no 
mistake about it, America, who is holding up the increase in the 
minimum wage.

Eight times the Senate has increased its own salary, increased the 
salary of the good Senator from South Carolina $32,000 in the last 10 
years--$32,000. And if we have had 1 hour of debate on that issue--1 
hour of debate on that issue, 1 hour of debate on that issue--I would 
be surprised. This is the fifth day our Republican friends who, as 
Members on the Democratic side, have enjoyed a $32,000 increase in 
their pay have 90 amendments to try and scuttle an increase in the 
minimum wage for low-income workers--trying to scuttle, to sink the 
increase.


These workers understand it. Workers across this country understand 
it. Working families understand it. Middle-income people understand it. 
All Americans understand it. This is one of those basic and fundamental 
issues people understand because it is an issue of fairness.

I don't impugn the motives of my friend from South Carolina, but he 
has opposed the minimum wage on every single occasion he has addressed 
it--every single occasion. We have the record here as to how the good 
Senator has voted every time on the issue of an increase in the minimum 
wage: going back to the House of Representatives in 2002, 2005, and 
over here on seven different occasions he has voted against the 
increase in the minimum wage. So the idea that he wants to provide 
$2.10 more to every worker in States that have raised--under the age-
old law of the minimum wage--their minimum wage because of the failure 
of the Senate to do it has a sort of hollow ring to it. It has sort of 
a hollow ring to it since he has opposed an increase in the minimum 
wage on each and every occasion we have considered it. We have to take 
a look at exactly what is being done.

I assure my friend from South Carolina that the workers in my State 
understand the battle they have had to increase the minimum wage. And I 
daresay, in the various States across the country that have increased 
their minimum wage, they have understood that, too. The legislators 
have gone out and worked, and workers understand what they have done. 
They have understood what they have done. They have understood that the 
minimum wage is a basic standard which is supposed to be the lowest 
living wage. It is supposed to be the lowest living wage. Historically, 
it is supposed to be half of what the average wage is in the country. 
That goes back to the time beginning of the minimum wage and the record 
shows that all the way up to probably the 1980s, and then it has


dropped precipitously, half of what it was.

Going back to the 1930s, the minimum wage was designed to be a floor. 
If States want to add something to it, they can, but it ought to be a 
floor for all workers in this country. One of the principal reasons it 
was passed at that time is because the Members of this body, the House 
of Representatives, and the President of the United States saw what was 
happening in different parts of the country where States were lowering 
their wages to try and attract industries and companies in a rush to 
the bottom, with the exploitation of worker after worker, family after 
family, in a rush to the bottom. So the national decision was taken, in 
terms of fairness and as a moral issue, that workers who were going to 
work hard were going to receive a minimum wage.

One of the age-old values in our country, in society, is that work 
ought to pay. We hear that stated around here with great ease and 
frequency, and that is what we are trying to do with a minimum wage 
increase. We are trying to make work pay, pay people who are doing some 
of the most difficult work in America, and demonstrate a respect for 
that work, give them pay because they are doing hard, difficult work, 
but we respect our fellow Americans and respect their efforts.

This is not the law of the jungle. The economy of the United States 
of America isn't survival of the fittest. Some would like to have it 
that way. Some who oppose the minimum wage would like to have it that 
way, but it isn't that way, thank God, in the United States of America. 
It is in the jungle, but not with regard to a democracy and a free 
economy.

Let me state specifically what this proposal does. The good Senator 
yesterday voted to permit any State to effectively opt out of any kind 
of minimum wage. So that would have fundamentally destroyed any kind of 
uniformity across the country.

His proposal is, in the wake of the Senate and Congress over 10 years 
under Republican leadership refusing to increase the minimum wage, the 
States in their own good judgments have done so, and now he says let's 
add on $2.10 to do that. It does seem to me appealing in a certain 
respect, because I believe the minimum wage is not a livable wage in 
many parts of the country. We have seen these livable wage campaigns 
that are taking place in Baltimore, Los Angeles--many cities around the 
country--my own city of Boston, and they have raised it in a particular 
region, and it has had great success.

But that isn't the issue. This particular amendment of the Senator 
would basically do what was attempted yesterday, but do it in a 
different way. Yesterday was to effectively end the minimum wage by 
letting any State opt out. Today the swing of the pendulum has gone the 
other way. The amendment says we are going to add additional funds on 
to any State. Every State over these past years has noted the failure 
of the Senate as a result of Republican leadership because we have had 
a majority read back the records of the votes in the Senate. We had a 
majority in the Senate with good Republican support to raise the 
minimum wage, but we couldn't get to the 60 votes, and our Republican 
leadership wouldn't let us. So the States moved ahead. Now that the 
States have moved ahead, the Senator wants to say: Oh, you have moved 
ahead because you made a judgment about the respect for your own 
workers, and we are going to add on to it to try to disrupt the minimum 
wage.

I hope this amendment will not be accepted, and I hope we will be 
able to move along and make further progress on this issue.

I reserve the remainder of my time.