---
---

# PRODUCED WATER UTILIZATION ACT OF 2009
## `bf22974db3fd510c591c452737809c12`
`Mr. BARTON of Texas — 11 February 2009`

---


Mr. BARTON of Texas. I thank the distinguished ranking member. I 
assume I'm rising in support of the bill, so I guess I need to 
compliment our distinguished chairman and our ranking member on this 
excellent legislative work.

But what I really want to talk about is the no-conference conference 
on the stimulus package. I just came out of a meeting with Leader 
Boehner, the minority leader. There is going to be some sort of a 
conference meeting at 3


o'clock this afternoon in the LBJ room on the other side of the 
Capitol. We've been told, though, that the Speaker and the majority 
leader have locked the conference down, and they want to have it voted 
on and passed by 6 o'clock Friday afternoon so that the Speaker can go 
on her trip to Italy and Afghanistan.

So, in this meeting in Leader Boehner's office, since I'm not a 
conferee, even though we've got about $200 billion of jurisdiction on 
the Energy and Commerce Committee, things like Medicare and broadband 
and something called electricity decoupling, where people that actually 
use less electricity are going to pay more for it, I'm not sure I 
understand how that's stimulative to the economy.

But I asked what the agenda was and nobody seems to know. The good 
news is there actually is going to be a conference meeting, although 
the decision has already been made. So my question to the majority in 
this body is, how do you move an $800 billion package, which is larger 
than the entire economy of the nation of Australia, with almost no 
transparency, no accountability, and a conference committee that's 
already been pre-ordained what they're going to report out some time 
tonight or tomorrow? Somehow that strikes me as a bad thing for 
democracy, a bad thing for the House and the Senate, and a bad deal for 
the American people.

So if I were a conferee, and there was a real conference I would ask 
questions, how does electricity decoupling really work? Why should we 
ask our consumers to use less electricity and pay for more the 
electricity that they use? Why is that a good thing? And why was it put 
in a bill that we haven't had a hearing on and most of the Members of 
the body on both sides of the aisle don't even know what the concept of 
electricity decoupling is.

So I guess, Mr. Speaker, I will end up by saying I wish that we ran 
the whole House like Chairman Gordon and Ranking Member Hall run the 
Science Committee, where there really is cooperation, there really is 
bipartisanship, and the result is that bills come to the floor that 
both sides can support.