# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `bf31f458d33adeb26bd41433d075d89b`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 14 February 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, it is my understanding that the House 
was dealing with steroid use in baseball and trying to punish some 
White House official over some internal dispute. It does strike me that 
is a strange use of time, when we are 2 days from the expiration of 
arguably the most important piece of legislation we have passed since 
9/11 to protect us here at home. It is no accident that we haven't been 
attacked again since 9/11. There are two reasons for it. One is, we 
went on the offense and have had great success in Afghanistan and Iraq, 
killing a lot of terrorists, many of them at Guantanamo, which I happen 
to think is a good place for them. A lot of the rest of them are on the 
run. I am often asked: We don't have Osama bin Laden. I say: Well, we 
wish we did. But I can assure you, he is not staying at the Four 
Seasons in Islamabad. He is in some cold cave somewhere looking over 
his shoulder, wondering when the final shoe is going to drop. So going 
on offense was an important part of protecting America and also this 
extraordinarily significant legislation about which we have had 
testimony from the highest officials that it has actually helped us 
thwart attacks against our homeland. There isn't anything we are doing 
that is more important than this, certainly not looking at steroid use 
in baseball. As important as that may be, it certainly does not rise to 
this level, or censoring White House officials.