---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `bf33626f8110180899619729c4f3c430`
`Mr. SPECTER — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I have sought recognition to oppose 
cloture on the pending motion to proceed on the issue of how to deal 
with the Iraqi problem.

As I look at this issue, it is one of enormous magnitude, and it 
ought not to be subject to shortcuts in the debate of the Senate. We 
pride ourselves on being the world's greatest deliberative body, and 
now is the time to show it. But what is happening on this motion for 
cloture and what is happening behind the scenes on negotiations is an 
effort to short-circuit debate on this matter of great importance, 
great magnitude. It is the issue which is engulfing the work of this 
body, the work of the House, and, really, all of Washington, and many 
of the eyes of the world are focused on this issue. There is no oxygen 
left in this town except on what to do on Iraq.

I suggest that this is not the kind of an issue where we ought to be 
short-circuited. There ought to be a full opportunity to debate this 
issue and all of its ramifications. What is happening behind the scenes 
is an effort to limit the number of resolutions and/or bills which may 
be offered as alternatives as to what the course of the United States 
ought to be on this very important subject.

Although it is arcane and esoteric and not subject to being 
understood, what is happening, again, behind the scenes, is the threat 
by the majority to fill up the tree, and that means when a bill is on 
the floor, if there is a first-degree amendment and a second-degree 
amendment, both of which are technical in nature and both of which may 
be offered by the majority leader because of the rule of priority of 
recognition, nobody else can offer an amendment.

Now, the countersuggestion has been made that there would be two 
amendments by the Republicans. That is down from five amendments, and 
it may be that even five are insufficient. As we debate this issue, 
other ideas may occur as to what ought to happen. But we are dealing 
with very complex issues.

On this state of the record, I cannot support an additional 
allocation of 21,500 troops because it is my judgment that would not be 
material or helpful in what is going on at the present time. This comes 
against the backdrop of extensive hearings in the Armed Services 
Committee and Foreign Relations Committee, and in the context of the 
military having given many estimates with many of those in key command 
positions saying that no more troops are necessary. This comes with the 
Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki saying a variety of things but at some 
times saying he doesn't want any more troops.

This debate ought to be taking up alternative proposals, and the one 
which is the most attractive to this Senator on this state of the 
record and has been endorsed by a number of the military is to give 
notice to the Iraqis that at some point in the future, with the exact 
time to be determined by the military experts, perhaps 6 months or 
perhaps some other point, that the Iraqis will be called upon to take 
over Baghdad, the security of Baghdad, to keep U.S. troops out of the 
line of fire between the Sunnis and the Shias, and that our current 
force would remain in Iraq to guard the infrastructure, to guard the 
oil wells, to give advice and to give training but not to undertake the 
major responsibility.

The obvious answer ultimately has to be a diplomatic solution, and as 
long as the Iraqis know that we are going to send in additional troops, 
that we are going to take over the responsibilities which they should 
be undertaking, they are going to sit back and let us do it. It is a 
matter of human nature. If Uncle Sam will do it, why should the Iraqis 
do it? But if we put them on notice that it is going to be their 
responsibility at a given time, then that puts the obligation on them.

In the President's State of the Union speech, he was explicit that 
the Iraqis had to do two things: No. 1, end the sectarian violence, 
and, no. 2, secure Baghdad. And on this state of the record there is no 
showing that the Iraqis are capable of doing either.

It is my hope, as we listen to the Senators who have been engaged in 
these hearings, who have studied the matter in some detail, and as we 
explore the alternatives, explore the alternative resolution of putting 
benchmarks that the Iraqis have to meet, when we explore the 
alternative of limiting funding--which I think there is unanimity we 
cannot limit funding at a time when American troops will be put in 
harm's way--this is the time for the Senate to assert congressional 
responsibility, which we have.

When the President says repeatedly he is the ''decider,'' I say 
respectfully to the President that is a shared responsibility. Under 
the Constitution, the Congress has the authority to decide, to maintain 
armies. The Constitution specifically limited appropriations to 2 
years.

However, if we are to assert that responsibility and that support, it 
seems to me we have to do it in a way which does not limit our debate. 
Right now, we are under a tremendous time pressure, with only an hour 
and a half to debate this important matter, and Senators are looking 
for more time. That is a very poor way for this Senate to approach this 
very important subject.

I yield back the remainder of my time.