---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `bf3835d2db10d4a8719ea4ca96a1f303`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 2 minutes.

Mr. Chairman, to address criticisms raised on the first amendment, 
this would not prevent retaliation for an attack upon U.S. troops. It 
would not prevent going into Iran to retrieve captured troops. But what 
it would do is say that we have not authorized, as some in this 
administration allege, a preemptive war against Iran because of the 
Iraq resolution or the 9/11 resolution. That simply is not true. They 
were not that all encompassing.

Further, it would also challenge a letter I had on April 18, 2002, 
from then-White House counsel, the esteemed Mr. Gonzales, who claims 
that the President has unilateral war-making authority under the 
Constitution.

No. This simply restates the Constitution of the United States and 
the War Powers Act. It is law, 93-148, and article I, section 8, of the 
Constitution.

This is not about whether or not military action against Iran is wise 
or necessary. Regardless of how you come down on that question, I urge 
you to support the amendment. It is not about binding the President's 
hands so he couldn't retaliate if they are involved in attacking our 
troops or capturing our troops in the area. It allows, as does the War 
Powers Act, in the event of any attack by Iran on the United States, 
its territories or possessions or Armed Forces, it is fully within the 
President's purview to respond.

There are many who are concerned about the growing nuclear capability 
of Iran, and I share those concerns. But the question that some day 
possibly in the future they might have a missile that could work, they 
might have nuclear weapons, does not dictate that we should have a 
preemptive war now; and if the President wants to make the case that 
that warrants a preemptive war, he should come to the war-making body, 
the Congress of the United States, make that case, present his evidence 
and have a lawful vote.

Plain and simple, that is all this amendment does, although I am 
certain other allegations will be made.