# None
## `bf4579b7627e4a0eb926952752be66d7`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Reclaiming my time, Mr. Ryan, I thought you made 
some very good points when you read the comments from the general, when 
you talked about the Jefferson backdrop and all today.

General Petraeus, whom I know and I have seen in theater, which I 
have been to Iraq twice, yes, he is a man that we all feel very good 
about. We know that he is carrying out a mission on behalf of his 
country. But we should not ride on the back of his accomplishments as a 
general and a commander in the field to justify the policy that is 
being carried out by this administration.

I tell you this, Mr. Ryan, that historians, in the very near future, 
are going to look back at this time and are going to wonder where the 
leaders were when this war and this moment right now that we are 
speaking in was taking place. When I used to play football, we used to 
have a saying, ''The blind leading the blind and the two shall fall in 
the ditch.'' The bottom line is if you know that the policy has been 
wrong, the intelligence has been inaccurate, and that everyone that has 
left the administration has just about written a book about when the 
lie was told and how they heard it first and when it was said, I think 
it is important that people understand and that the Members of this 
House understand how history will reflect on your vote and your lack of 
leadership or your leadership. One of the two. If you want to listen to 
someone else, and I talked to my friends on the minority side, the 
Republican side. There are some of their former colleagues right now 
watching us in this debate here on the floor and wishing that they 
could take their vote back and stand up to the administration. Maybe, 
just maybe, they would still be in Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I will close on this point: The bottom line is that it 
is time for leadership. It is time for Members on both sides of the 
aisle and especially on the minority side of the aisle,


the Republican side of the aisle, to go see the wizard, get some 
courage, and come back to this floor and back the will of the American 
people for accountability for our men and women in harm's way and 
making sure that we hold to the integrity of what the President said he 
would do and making sure that we hold the Iraqi government's feet to 
the fire as though we would hold the mayor of Youngstown, Ohio's, feet 
to the fire or Sioux City, Iowa. We are going to hold their feet to the 
fire for Federal dollars. Why can't we hold Iraqi government's feet for 
Federal dollars? And the President is saying don't hold their feet to 
the fire and don't hold my words, whatever I have said in the past, as 
though I meant what I said. And the bottom line is that we have a 
responsibility.

So as we carry out that responsibility tomorrow morning at the White 
House, I hope that we are at the table of compromise but also holding 
to the integrity of what we originally sent to the President.

There has already been compromise. The language changed from when we 
passed it here on the floor and it went to the conference committee. 
Some language was changed then because the President didn't like it, 
and then it came to the floor and we voted for that. And now it is to 
the White House, and the President says he still doesn't like it. Now 
we are about to sit down again with the President to talk about these 
issues. And then maybe, just maybe, there may be another vote here on 
the floor and the President may say he still doesn't like it.

So when it comes down to the speech of who is letting the troops 
down, I think it is going to become more and more evident to the 
American people and to the Congress that we have a problem on the 
executive branch end of not being at the table of compromise for real 
on behalf of our men and women in uniform. We are doing our job. Let's 
continue to do it.

With that, Mr. Ryan, Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the leadership for 
allowing us to come here to address the American people in the U.S. 
House once again. It was a great honor.
