---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `bf540e542acf175c111ede48ae780a5a`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. I thank the Chair. I appreciate the comments of the 
Senator from Michigan, but I feel very strongly that my amendment has 
to be properly characterized. This is not a specific timetable. It 
merely asks the President to give us a vision of a timetable of when he 
intends for this to be over.

The Senator from Michigan tries to reassure us that the President has 
announced a start date for us to get out of Afghanistan. Well, that 
doesn't work because how do we think the people of that area of the 
world will be reassured if we are going to only start to withdraw the 
troops in 2011? You take one troop out, that starts it. That is not a 
vision of when we intend to complete it.

The Senator suggests that somehow this sends the wrong message in the 
region. Well, actually, the wrong message is that we intend to be there 
forever. We don't intend to be there forever. But you know what. After 
9 years, people start wondering--9 years; 9 years with no vision of 
when we might depart. In fact, I think the absolute worst message in 
the region is an open-ended commitment. The worst thing we can do is 
not give some sense to the people of that region and to the American 
people and to our troops that there is some end to this thing. All we 
ask for in this amendment is some vision from the President about when 
he thinks we might complete this task.

So when this amendment is properly characterized, it is actually a 
way to help us make sure the Taliban and al-Qaida and others do not win 
the hearts and minds of the Afghan people because they need to be 
reassured that we intend to make sure their country comes back to them 
and that it will not be occupied indefinitely.

I reserve the remainder of my time.