# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `bf62fdbc67135510d2eddf55e943b128`
`Mr. SCHUMER â€” 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first, I wish to thank my colleague from 
Pennsylvania before he leaves the floor. He is a great member of the 
committee, a great Senator, and always has his eye on the average 
family. One of the reasons he has been so effective on the Joint 
Economic Committee is he understands all the concepts, of course, but 
then he is able to take them and relate them directly to the needs of 
average families. I thank him for the good job he did this afternoon, 
which is typical of the good job he always does on the JEC and 
elsewhere. I also thank my colleague, Senator Webb, who also took some 
time to speak on these issues.

Now I will conclude our Humphrey Hawkins budget debate.

Today, we are looking at an economy on the verge of recession. Many 
economists would say it is already in recession. The economic hits to 
middle-class American families just keep on coming and coming.

Before I talk about our Democratic budget package, which is far 
superior to the President's budget, I would like to use this Humphrey 
Hawkins debate time as chair of the Joint Economic Committee to talk a 
little bit about the economy.

In the last week alone, we have learned that we are experiencing 
record home foreclosures in the prime and subprime mortgage markets 
from coast to coast. Every single State has been affected by an 
increase in foreclosures. According to an analysis by the Joint 
Economic Committee, home prices in every major market are falling. 
Families have historically low equity in their homes.

Moody's Economy.com estimates that 8.8 million homeowners--that is 10 
percent of all homeowners--will owe more money than their homes are 
worth. Think of that: 10 percent of all homeowners--not homes in 
foreclosure, not homes in trouble, but 10 percent of all homeowners 
will owe more money than their homes are worth.

Just this past Friday, the Labor Department reported back-to-back 
months of losses in jobs, with serious losses this past month in 
manufacturing, construction, and retail. Today, the Commerce Department 
released data showing rising trade deficits with China and oil-
producing nations such as Venezuela and Saudi Arabia. Americans are 
paying a record average $3.22 per gallon of gasoline today, and if that 
wasn't enough, oil is selling for over $110 a barrel. Let me repeat 
that. Oil is selling for over $110 per barrel. That is an alltime 
record.

As we put forward a more sensible budget plan for our country this 
year, we have to recognize that the pressure on families has been made 
worse since President Bush took over. Over the last 7 years, Americans 
have been squeezed by skyrocketing energy, health care, and education 
costs. Energy costs have ballooned 64 percent during Bush's tenure. A 
gallon of regular-grade gasoline has increased 60 percent in real 
terms, up from $1.62 in January 2001. To put this in perspective, the 
average middle-class family is paying more just in higher gasoline 
prices than they received in the Bush tax cuts. Again, let me repeat 
that. The average American family is paying more just in higher 
gasoline prices than they received in the President's tax cut. That is 
appalling.

There are 7.2 million more people uninsured since the President took 
office, and average health insurance for families who do have it 
increased nearly 40 percent since 2000. Inflation-adjusted tuition for 
4-year public colleges increased 36 percent, to $5,526 per year between 
1999 and 2005. In February of 2008, 4.9 million people were working 
part time for economic reasons but wanted to work full time, and the 
underemployment rate is almost 9 percent--9 percent--up 1.6 percent 
since 2000. Now there are 1.4 million fewer people with jobs since the 
President took office--1.4 million unemployed.

The bottom line is that this administration is the owner of the worst 
jobs record since Herbert Hoover, and the last 2 months of losing 
nearly 90,000 jobs secures the President's unfortunate place in 
history, as this chart shows. Here is Herbert Hoover. Everyone did 
better than George Bush since Herbert Hoover.

The significant job losses in manufacturing and construction have 
continued since the housing market has been in trouble and doesn't seem 
to be getting better. The job losses in the retail sector are 
particularly troubling because it indicates that consumer spending, 
which has driven this economy, has also declined measurably.

The President's ''hear no evil, see no evil, do no evil'' policies on 
our economy simply don't work. It is only a matter of time before 
consecutive months of job losses, falling home prices, rising energy 
prices, and cutbacks in consumer spending lead us into a full-blown 
recession. It is crystal clear to everyone except the people in the 
White House that we are inevitably heading toward a recession.

It isn't a surprise to many in Congress that we are on the brink of 
recession--or are already in one--although the administration has done 
an excellent job of hiding its head in the sand, because their strategy 
has produced burgeoning budget deficits, a serious global trade 
imbalance, and brought us to the brink of recession. That is because 
their only economic strategy for everything is to cut taxes--help their 
wealthy friends and no help for the rest of America.

The unmistakable economic downturn began early last year as the 
subprime mortgage mess unfolded. The spillover effects into the broader 
housing market, the credit market, and overall economy are tremendous 
and ongoing.

According to the JEC's conservative estimates, by 2009 at least 1.3 
million foreclosures will occur as the riskiest subprime mortgages 
reset over the course of this year and next. This will lead to the 
destruction of approximately $100 billion in housing wealth, including 
an estimated $71 billion in direct losses on foreclosed properties and 
a decline in the value of neighboring properties by an additional $32 
billion.

Overall housing prices continue to fall, as seen in the almost 10 
percent decline of the S&P/Case-Shiller national home price index since 
the first quarter of 2006.

Last week, the Federal Reserve released data showing that American 
families hold less equity in their houses than at any time since the 
Fed began tracking this data in 1945. Under the Bush administration, 
the primary source of wealth for most Americans--the equity in their 
houses--dropped by nearly 10 percentage points, from a 57.8 percent 
equity stake when Bush took office to a current low of 47.9 percent.

Given that housing wealth totaled about $23 trillion in 2006, the 
decline in household balance sheets is now between $1 and $2 trillion. 
Declines in house prices are likely to have significant negative 
effects on consumer spending and a host of other deleterious effects on 
the economy. But housing is the bull's-eye of this crisis. It has 
spread outward and outward and outward. Again, the administration, 
wrapped in ideological handcuffs, does nothing.


We are also borrowing to pay for this war in Iraq. The economic cost 
for the Iraq war is truly staggering. According to professor Joe 
Stiglitz, a Nobel Laureate who testified at our Joint Economic 
Committee last month, the war could cost $3 trillion--that is with a 
T--$3 trillion. According to a report our committee did in November--we 
have been pursuing this issue of the cost of the war--the war will cost 
each American household $37,000.

The Federal Government is increasingly reliant on the rest of the 
world to buy our public debt, and with falling dollars and skyrocketing 
debt, who knows how much longer we can count on the largesse of our 
trading partners.

President Bush turned huge budget surpluses into huge deficits in a 
few short years, as we see here. In January 2001, the CBO projected 
surpluses would total $5.6 trillion in 2002 to 2011. In 2001, CBO's 
projection was a surplus of $573 billion in 2007. In reality, the 
deficit was $163 billion, a turnaround of $736 billion, and more than 
$100 billion for every year that the President has been in office. This 
remarkable, dramatic turnaround in the budget picture shows a reckless 
disregard by this administration for living within our means and


has, frankly, jeopardized the economic future of families across the 
country.

The President may have passed some big tax cuts for the people who 
need it least, the very well off. But he has not been very 
compassionate to future generations who will be paying for the 
increased debt for generations. I compliment the Senator from North 
Dakota for the amazing budget he put together. It is the best budget 
document I have ever seen since I have been in the Senate.

The Democratic budget provides some measure of sanity and order to 
our budget priorities and, hopefully, will put our country back on more 
solid economic footing. Senator Conrad did an amazing job in crafting a 
budget resolution that gets us started on the road to recovery from 
these misguided policies.

One of the most important things about Senator Conrad's budget is 
that by restraining spending and making the right choices on long-term 
tax cuts, it provides room for important middle tax cuts to ease the 
middle-class squeeze, such as the tax cuts provided in Senator Baucus's 
amendment. These tax cuts are not a fix for what ails our economy in 
the long term, but they will indeed help middle-class families make 
ends meet.

Senator Baucus's amendment is broad-based tax relief targeted to the 
middle class, plain and simple. Everybody benefits, but the middle 
class gets most of the spoils. That is the way we ought to provide tax 
relief in this country--not providing more and more tax breaks to the 
top one-tenth of 1 percent, whose incomes have shot up into the 
stratosphere. Tax cuts for those who need them, not for those who would 
not notice them. That is our watchword, while the other side continues 
to believe in trickle down, but not even trickle down from the middle 
class to the poor but from those higher regions of wealth.

If we look at the tax cuts that passed in 2001, we know which ones 
should be made permanent and which ones should not. The $1,000-per-
child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, and the 10-percent bracket 
are all sensible tax cuts that can be made permanent with the surpluses 
provided for in the Conrad budget.

The Baucus amendment does some other sensible things as well. Across 
the country, parents are struggling to manage the crunch of work and 
family. According to a report issued by the Joint Economic Committee, 
full-time childcare costs average about $7,300 per year in the United 
States. That is almost 20 percent of the median income of families with 
young children. The Baucus amendment will permanently extend the tax 
credit for childcare expenses to provide essential benefits to working 
families.

Senator Baucus's amendment also includes provisions to offset the 
impact of rising local property taxes. I hear about that from my 
constituents every week. The amendment will make permanent the 
important military tax benefits passed both by the House and the Senate 
last December. These benefits are particularly targeted toward service 
men and women and their families. Given the multiple rotations many of 
them have endured, these tax provisions are supported by all, and they 
are the least we can do.

I know what the other side will say: ''Democrats are for tax 
increases.'' My friends, telling people who are making a million 
dollars a year or more that they should continue to get a tax cut is 
what is wrong, not saying they should begin to pay their fair share. I 
have news for my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. Their old 
arguments are not going to work because the middle class has seen 
promise after promise from this administration, and then they have seen 
the vast majority of the tax cuts go to the very top of the income 
scale.

I will repeat it again: The average middle-class person has paid more 
of an increase in gasoline than their entire Bush tax cut, while this 
administration twiddles its thumbs about the energy crisis and 
continues to tell those at the top of the economic ladder that they get 
the vast majority of the benefits, even though they don't need it.

So I hope we will support the Conrad budget. It is a good, fine, and 
well-thought-out one. I hope we will support the Baucus tax cuts, which 
are targeted at the middle class. I hope we will support a budget such 
as the one proposed on our side, which is smart and helps the middle 
class.

I yield the floor.