---
---

# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007-- MOTION TO PROCEED.
## `bf633c21f3833558949044b0664c0521`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, let me, first of all, congratulate 
Senator Bingaman and Senator Domenici, the chairman and ranking member 
of the Energy Committee, for their great work and their leadership. I 
think the legislation they have brought to the floor today, along with 
the legislation from the other jurisdictions in the Senate, exemplifies 
the working relationship we have seen from the Energy Committee over 
the last 2 years. The 2005 Energy Policy Act could not have been passed 
without the bipartisan leadership exhibited by Senator Bingaman and 
Senator Domenici. For that, I am grateful to be a part of their 
committee.

Let me say to all our colleagues, we should definitely vote yes on 
the motion to proceed, as we embark on this journey of looking at 
energy independence for our Nation. The drivers for energy 
independence, in my mind, are stark and clear. It is fundamentally one 
of the very most important issues that face our Nation today. First and 
foremost, the driver of national security compels us to get rid of the 
addiction we currently have to foreign oil. When one looks at what is 
happening in Lebanon and the funding of the Hezbollah organization that 
continues to create havoc in that part of the world, it is a stark 
reminder to us that for too long, America has slept while our enemies 
have fueled themselves with the dollars that come from the very high 
price of oil from places such as Iraq. Our country today is dependent 
on us being able to grasp that concept of national security.

That is why in this Senate Chamber you will see it is not only 
Democrats who are going to be working on this energy legislation but it 
is Republicans working on this legislation, because the issue of energy 
independence is not a Democratic agenda or Republican agenda, it is an 
agenda that is essential to the future security of America.

I am hopeful, as we move forward with this legislation, we will grasp 
the fact that we are taking some significant steps forward. First, the 
biofuels increased by moving forward with a renewable fuel standard 
will mean we will be quintupling the amount of energy we expect we can 
produce from biofuels. Second, the major initiative with respect to 
energy efficiency is something we ought to embrace. That is low-hanging 
fruit for all of us in America as we deal with energy independence. 
Third, we take major steps with carbon sequestration and move forward 
on the debate on global warming, which is essential to our country; and 
finally, looking at other issues, such as CAFE standards, will help us 
get down the road. I urge all my colleagues to join us in this historic 
endeavor as we march forward toward energy independence in our Nation.