# RECOGNIZING 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF KOREAN WAR
## `bf65f8d208aeab9fa8a66f08579390e5`
`Mr. RANGEL — 16 June 2010`

---


Mr. RANGEL. And I want you to know this is just the beginning of the 
United States of America's involvement. In September of this year, in 
commemoration of the lives that were lost by Koreans and Americans and 
the other 20 countries that fought against communism, there will be a 
commemorative ceremony in Seoul, which our State Department will be 
participating in. And again, my colleagues have been invited to join, 
but the situation here in Congress didn't allow us to accept.



But Mr. Boehner, the minority leader, as well as our distinguished 
Speaker had thought that since we could not be represented over in 
Seoul next week, that a reception will be held right here and a 
ceremony in Statuary Hall, where the participants from the free 
countries that joined with us will be there with their representatives. 
And we have invited veterans that have served in Korea to come join us.

The reason I constantly say I haven't had a bad day since, and to say 
how good God is, is because it's been 60 years ago. And recently, that 
is last week at the Kennedy Center, the Korean Angels, a young group 
that's trained to go around the world talking about peace and harmony 
to the world, celebrated and they lauded the Korean veterans. And my 
colleagues here on the House floor would know they came with crutches 
and wheelchairs and canes, but they did come.

And what this House and Senate will be doing for them, even if they 
are not able to come to Washington, they will be able to tell their 
kids and their grandkids and their neighbors and friends that their 
sacrifice has not been forgotten. And I do hope that you and the 
chairman and subcommittee chairman that expedited this, and the Members 
that hopefully will be supporting this in the House and Senate, would 
realize how many lives they are making more bright by reminding their 
loved ones of those that were left behind, that what they lost, the 
pain that they felt is not forgotten by the United States.

And it gives us a time once again to talk about the brave men and 
women that are in the Middle East, that are in Afghanistan. Each and 
every day that we are allowed to breathe the breath of democracy, to 
get up and to do and say what we want is only because they are willing 
to put their lives in harm's way for our flag and for our country and 
for the freedom that's here.

So all of us, in a sense, whether it was in World War II, whether it 
was Korea, whether it was the Persian Gulf where my son served as a 
Marine, or whether or not it's the present crisis that we face in the 
Middle East, we have so much to be fortunate that in this country there 
is a spirit that we defend what is right, what is moral, and at the end 
of the day we are better people, we are better legislators, and we are 
a better country for it. And so everyone who votes today, I think it's 
our way of saying ''thank you'' for those who made the sacrifice and 
also ''thank you'' for those who continue to do it as we speak today.