---
---

# COMMENDING THE WOOLUM FAMILY OF KNOX COUNTY, KENTUCKY, FOR ITS  TRADITION OF SERVICE TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
## `bf7a036409719e19258b99ef0e413360`
`Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky — 25 June 2008`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Madam Speaker, during this time of conflict 
overseas, the United States has called on her brave men and women in 
uniform to serve and to sacrifice. And they have answered this call--
with honor, with immeasurable courage and with distinction. I rise 
today to recognize the Woolum Family, hailing from my region of 
southern and eastern Kentucky, for their dedication and decorated 
service to our great Nation.

David and Ruby Woolum, of Artemus, Kentucky, devoted their lives to 
imparting in their 12 children love of God, love of family, and love of 
country. Today, I am incredibly honored to share with you that seven of 
their nine sons, and four of their grandchildren, have taken these 
valuable lessons to heart and in turn dedicated their lives to military 
service. Their representation of both Kentucky and the United States is 
exemplary.

David and Ruby's sons David and Robert served valiantly in the Marine 
Corps; in fact, David returned from his second tour in Vietnam a 
decorated veteran and a recipient of a Purple Heart. Their brothers--
Charles, Richard and Keith--spent their military careers in the Air 
Force, while Joseph and Terry Woolum served bravely in the Army. Terry 
is currently in his 33rd year of military service, as a member of the 
National Guard. The support of their siblings Priscilla, Ellen, Eric, 
and James never wavered.

Even more impressive is that their collective spirit of patriotism 
has trickled down to a younger generation of Woolums, who continue to 
represent southeast Kentucky with pride: David and Ruby's grandchildren 
Joseph, Robert, Jason and Jolene are currently serving in the Marine 
Corps, Army, National Guard and Air Force, respectively.

Thankfully these 11 closely knit men and young woman have returned 
safely from their many overseas tours of duty, including multiple 
deployments to such destinations as Vietnam, Germany, France, and 
recently, Iraq. I


believe we have a special duty to honor these brave soldiers, airmen, 
marines and guardsmen for their outstanding service to our country and, 
in particular, to recognize the important role of David and Ruby Woolum 
in raising their children with a desire to serve our country and 
support one another in this noble endeavor.

When David Woolum passed away in November 2002, he and Ruby had been 
married for 64 years. I ask my colleagues to join me in celebrating and 
honoring the patriotism of this couple, which should serve as an 
example to American families for centuries to come.
