# AN EXTRAORDINARY SPEECH
## `bfae33700d839f0777f2c4596536d10c`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 21 December 2010`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, I submit the following 
for the Record:




 What follows is an abridged transcript from The American 


 Thinker by Alan Fraser of an extraordinary speech given by 


 Lieutenant General John F. Kelly USMC on November 13, 2010. 


 What renders it so is that General Kelly's son, First 


 Lieutenant Robert Michael Kelly, was killed in action in 


 Sangin, Afghanistan only four days before Lt. Gen. Kelly gave 


 this speech. Lt. Gen. Kelly's eldest child is also a U.S. 


 Marine.



 The American Thinker wrote earlier about this incident to 


 which the general refers in his speech of Corporal Jonathan 


 Yale and Lance Corporal Jordan Haerter. Recall that it 


 occurred at a time when it appeared that our troop surge in 


 Iraq had perhaps stabilized what had been for several years a 


 horrific situation. Now think about how that troop surge--in 


 fact, the entire war--would have been viewed had fifty of our 


 Marines been massacred in their sleep on that April night in 


 2008. And finally, as we are in the season, it's good to 


 remind ourselves that it is only because of men like Yale, 


 Haerter, Gen. Kelly, and his brave sons that we are able to 


 celebrate our holidays and not those of our enemies.









[Semper Fi Society of St. Louis Speech]











(By LTG Kelly on Nov. 13, 2010)




 Nine years ago two of the four commercial aircraft took off 


 from Boston, Newark, and Washington. Took off fully loaded 


 with men, women and children--all innocent, and all soon to 


 die. These aircraft were targeted at the World Trade Towers 


 in New York, the Pentagon, and likely the Capitol in 


 Washington, D.C. . . . Three found their mark. No American 


 alive old enough to remember will ever forget exactly where 


 they were, exactly what they were doing, and exactly who they 


 were with at the moment they watched the aircraft dive into 


 the World Trade Towers on what was, until then, a beautiful 


 morning in New York City. Within the hour 3,000 blameless 


 human beings would be vaporized, incinerated, or crushed in 


 the most agonizing ways imaginable. The most wretched among 


 them--over 200--driven mad by heat, hopelessness, and utter 


 desperation leapt to their deaths from 1,000 feet above Lower 


 Manhattan. We soon learned hundreds more were murdered at the 


 Pentagon, and in a Pennsylvania farmer's field.



 Once the buildings had collapsed and the immensity of the 


 attack began to register most of us had no idea of what to 


 do, or where to turn. As a nation, we were scared like we had 


 not been scared for generations. Parents hugged their 


 children to gain as much as to give comfort. Strangers 


 embraced in the streets stunned and crying on one anther's 


 shoulders seeking solace, as much as to give it. 


 Instantaneously, American patriotism soared not ''as the last 


 refuge'' as our national-cynical class would say, but in the 


 darkest times Americans seek refuge in family, and in 


 country, remembering that strong men and women have always 


 stepped forward to protect the nation when the need was 


 dire--and it was so God awful dire that day--and remains so 


 today.



 There was, however, a small segment of America that made 


 very different choices that day . . . actions the rest of 


 America stood in awe of on 9/11 and every day since. The 


 first were our firefighters and police, their ranks decimated 


 that day as they ran towards--not away from--danger and 


 certain death. They were doing what they'd sworn to do--


 ''protect and serve''--and went to their graves having 


 fulfilled their sacred oath. Then there was your Armed 


 Forces, and I know I am a little biased in my opinion here, 


 but the best of them are Marines. Most wearing the Eagle, 


 Globe and Anchor today joined the unbroken ranks of American 


 heroes after that fateful day not for money, or promises of 


 bonuses or travel to exotic liberty ports, but for one reason 


 and one reason alone; because of the terrible assault on our 


 way of life by men they knew must be killed and an extremist 


 ideology that must be destroyed. A plastic flag in their car 


 window was not their response to the murderous assault on our 


 country. No, their response was a commitment to protect the 


 nation swearing an oath to their God to do so, to their 


 deaths. When future generations ask why America is still free 


 and the heyday of Al Qaeda and their terrorist allies was 


 counted in days rather than in centuries as the extremists 


 themselves predicted, our hometown heroes--soldiers, sailors, 


 airmen, Coast




 Guardsmen, and Marines--can say, ''because of me and people 


 like me who risked all to protect millions who will never 


 know my name.''



 As we sit here right now, we should not lose sight of the 


 fact that America is at risk in a way it has never been 


 before. Our enemy fights for an ideology based on an 


 irrational hatred of who we are. Make no mistake about that 


 no matter what certain elements of the ''chattering class'' 


 relentlessly churn out. We did not start this fight, and it 


 will not end until the extremists understand that we as a 


 people will never lose our faith or our courage. If they 


 persist, these terrorists and extremists and the nations that 


 provide them sanctuary, they must know they will continue to 


 be tracked down and captured or killed. America's civilian 


 and military protectors both here at home and overseas have 


 for nearly nine years fought this enemy to a standstill and 


 have never for a second ''wondered why.'' They know, and are 


 not afraid. Their struggle is your struggle. They hold in 


 disdain those who claim to support them but not the cause 


 that takes their innocence, their limbs, and even their 


 lives. As a democracy--''We the People''--and that by 


 definition is every one of us--sent them away from home and 


 hearth to fight our enemies. We are all responsible. I know 


 it doesn't apply to those of us here tonight but if anyone 


 thinks you can somehow thank them for their service, and not 


 support the cause for which they fight--America's survival--


 then they are lying to themselves and rationalizing away 


 something in their lives, but, more importantly, they are 


 slighting our warriors and mocking their commitment to the 


 nation.



 Since this generation's ''day of infamy'' the American 


 military has handed our ruthless enemy defeat-after-defeat 


 but it will go on for years, if not decades, before this 


 curse has been eradicated. We have done this by unceasing 


 pursuit day and night into whatever miserable lair Al Qaeda, 


 the Taliban, and their allies, might slither into to lay in 


 wait for future opportunities to strike a blow at freedom. 


 America's warriors have never lost faith in their mission, or 


 doubted the correctness of their cause. They face dangers 


 every day that their countrymen safe and comfortable this 


 night cannot imagine. But this has always been the case in 


 all the wars our military have been sent to fight. Not to 


 build empires, or enslave peoples, but to free those held in 


 the grip of tyrants while at the same time protecting our 


 nation, its citizens, and our shared values. And, ladies and 


 gentlemen, think about this, the only territory we as a 


 people have ever asked for from any nation we have fought 


 alongside, or against, since our founding, the entire extent 


 of our overseas empire, as a few hundred acres of land for 


 the 24 American cemeteries scattered around the globe. It is 


 in these cemeteries where 220,000 of our sons and daughters 


 rest in glory for eternity, or are memorialized forever 


 because their earthly remains are lost forever in the deepest 


 depths of the oceans, or never recovered from far flung and 


 nameless battlefields. As a people, we can be proud because 


 billions across the planet today live free, and billions yet 


 unborn will also enjoy the same freedom and a chance at 


 prosperity because America sent its sons and daughters out to 


 fight and die for them, as much as for us.



 The comforting news for every American is that our men and 


 women in uniform, and every Marine, is as good today as any 


 in our history. As good as what their heroic, under-


 appreciated, and largely abandoned fathers and uncles were in 


 Vietnam, and their grandfathers were in Korea and World War 


 II. They have the same steel in their backs and have made 


 their own mark etching forever places like Ramadi, Fallujah, 


 and Baghdad, Iraq, and Helmand and Sagin, Afghanistan, that 


 are now part of the legend and stand just as proudly 


 alongside Belleau Wood, Iwo Jima, Inchon, Hue City, Khe Sanh, 


 and Ashau Valley, Vietnam. None of them have ever asked what 


 their country could do for them, but always and with their 


 lives asked what they could do for America. While some might 


 think we have produced yet another generation of 


 materialistic, consumeristic and self-absorbed young people, 


 those who serve today have broken the mold and stepped out as 


 real men, and real women, who are already making their own 


 way in life while protecting ours. They know the real 


 strength of a platoon, a battalion, or a country that is not 


 worshiping at the altar of diversity, but in a melting pot 


 that stitches and strengthens by a sense of shared history, 


 values, customs, hopes and dreams all of which unifies a 


 people making them stronger, as opposed to an unruly gaggle 


 of ''hyphenated'' or ''multi-cultural individuals.''



 I will leave you with a story about the kind of people they 


 are . . . about the quality of the steel in their backs . . . 


 about the kind of dedication they bring to our country while 


 they serve in uniform and forever after as veterans. Two 


 years ago when I was the Commander of all U.S. and Iraqi 


 forces, in fact, the 22nd of April 2008, two Marine infantry 


 battalions, 1/9 ''The Walking Dead,'' and 2/8 were switching 


 out in Ramadi. One battalion in the closing days of their 


 deployment going home very soon, the other just starting its 


 seven-month combat tour. Two Marines, Corporal Jonathan Yale 


 and Lance Corporal Jordan Haerter, 22 and 20 years old 


 respectively, one from each battalion, were assuming the 


 watch together at the entrance gate of an outpost that 


 contained a makeshift barracks housing 50 Marines. The same 


 broken down ramshackle building was also home to 100 Iraqi 


 police, also my men and our allies in the fight against the 


 terrorists in Ramadi, a city until recently the most 


 dangerous city on earth and owned by Al Qaeda. Yale was a 


 dirt poor mixed-race kid from Virginia with a wife and 


 daughter, and a mother and sister who lived with him and he 


 supported as well. He did this on a yearly salary of less 


 than $23,000. Haerter, on the other hand, was a middle class 


 white kid from Long Island. They were from two completely 


 different worlds. Had they not joined the Marines they would 


 never have met each other, or understood that multiple 


 America's exist simultaneously depending on one's race, 


 education level, economic status, and where you might have 


 been born. But they were Marines, combat Marines, forged in 


 the same crucible of Marine training, and because of this 


 bond they were brothers as close, or closer, than if they 


 were born of the same woman.



 The mission orders they received from the sergeant squad 


 leader I am sure went something like: ''Okay you two clowns, 


 stand this post and let no unauthorized personnel or vehicles 


 pass.'' ''You clear?'' I am also sure Yale and Haerter then 


 rolled their eyes and said in unison something like: ''Yes 


 Sergeant,'' with just enough attitude that made the point 


 without saying the words, ''No kidding sweetheart, we know 


 what we're doing.'' They then relieved two other Marines on 


 watch and took up their post at the entry control point of 


 Joint Security Station Nasser, in the Sophia section of 


 Ramadi, al Anbar, Iraq.



 A few minutes later a large blue truck turned down the 


 alley way-perhaps 60-70 yards in length--and sped its way 


 through the serpentine of concrete jersey walls. The truck 


 stopped just short of where the two were posted and 


 detonated, killing them both catastrophically. Twenty-four 


 brick masonry houses were damaged or destroyed. A mosque 100 


 yards away collapsed. The truck's engine came to rest two 


 hundred yards away knocking most of a house down before it 


 stopped. Our explosive experts reckoned the blast was made of 


 2,000 pounds of explosives. Two died, and because these two 


 young infantrymen didn't have it in their DNA to run from 


 danger, they saved 150 of their Iraqi and American brothers-


 in-arms.



 When I read the situation report about the incident a few 


 hours after it happened I called the regimental commander for 


 details as something about this struck me as different. 


 Marines dying or being seriously wounded is commonplace in 


 combat. We expect Marines regardless of rank or MOS to stand 


 their ground and do their duty, and even die in the process, 


 if that is what the mission takes. But this just seemed 


 different. The regimental commander had just returned from 


 the site and he agreed, but reported that there were no 


 American witnesses to the event--just Iraqi police. I figured 


 if there was any chance of finding out what actually happened 


 and then to decorate the two Marines to acknowledge their 


 bravery, I'd have to do it as a combat award that requires 


 two eye-witnesses and we figured the bureaucrats back in 


 Washington would never buy Iraqi statements. If it had any 


 chance at all, it had to come under the signature of a 


 general officer.



 I traveled to Ramadi the next day and spoke individually to 


 a half-dozen Iraqi police all of whom told the same story. 


 The blue truck turned down into the alley and immediately 


 sped up as it made its way through the serpentine. They all 


 said, ''We knew immediately what was going on as soon as the 


 two Marines began firing.'' The Iraqi police then related 


 that some of them also fired, and then to a man, ran for 


 safety just prior to the explosion. All survived. Many were 


 injured . . . some seriously. One of the Iraqis elaborated 


 and with tears welling up said, ''They'd run like any normal 


 man would to save his life.'' ''What he didn't know until 


 then,'' he said, ''and what he learned that very instant, was 


 that Marines are not normal.'' Choking past the emotion he 


 said, ''Sir, in the name of God no sane man would have stood 


 there and done what they did.'' ''No sane man.'' ''They saved 


 us all.''



 What we didn't know at the time, and only learned a couple 


 of days later after I wrote a summary and submitted both Yale 


 and Haerter for posthumous Navy Crosses, was that one of our 


 security cameras, damaged initially in the blast, recorded 


 some of the suicide attack. It happened exactly as the Iraqis 


 had described it. It took exactly six seconds from when the 


 truck entered the alley until it detonated.



 You can watch the last six seconds of their young lives. 


 Putting myself in their heads I supposed it took about a 


 second for the two Marines to separately come to the same 


 conclusion about what was going on once the truck came into 


 their view at the far end of the alley. Exactly no time to 


 talk it over, or call the sergeant to ask what they should 


 do. Only enough time to take half an instant and think about 


 what the sergeant told them to do only a few minutes before: 


 ''. . .let no unauthorized personnel or vehicles pass.'' The 


 two Marines had about five seconds left to live.



 It took maybe another two seconds for them to present their 


 weapons, take aim, and open up. By this time the truck was 


 half-way through the barriers and gaining speed the whole 


 time. Here, the recording shows a number of Iraqi police, 


 some of whom had fired their AKs, now scattering like the 


 normal and rational men they were-some running right past the 


 Marines. They had three seconds left to live.





 For about two seconds more, the recording shows the 


 Marines' weapons firing nonstop . . . the truck's windshield 


 exploding into shards of glass as their rounds take it apart 


 and tore in to the body of the son-of-a-bitch who is trying 


 to get past them to kill their brothers--American and Iraqi--


 bedded down in the barracks totally unaware of the fact that 


 their lives at that moment depended entirely on two Marines 


 standing their ground. If they had been aware, they would 


 have know they were safe . . . because two Marines stood 


 between them and a crazed suicide bomber. The recording shows 


 the truck careening to a stop immediately in front of the two 


 Marines. In all of the instantaneous violence Yale and 


 Haerter never hesitated. By all reports and by the recording, 


 they never stepped back. They never even started to step 


 aside. They never even shifted their weight. With their feet 


 spread should width apart, they leaned into the danger, 


 firing as fast as they could work their weapons. They had 


 only one second left to live.



 The truck explodes. The camera goes blank. Two young men go 


 to their God. Six seconds. Not enough time to think about 


 their families, their country, their flag, or about their 


 lives or their deaths, but more than enough time for two very 


 brave young men to do their duty . . . into eternity. That is 


 the kind of people who are on watch all over the world 


 tonight--for you.



 We Marines believe that God gave America the greatest gift 


 he could bestow to man while he lived on this earth--freedom. 


 We also believe he gave us another gift nearly as precious--


 our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Coast Guardsmen, and Marines--


 to safeguard that gift and guarantee no force on this earth 


 can every steal it away. It has been my distinct honor to 


 have been with you here today. Rest assured our America, this 


 experiment in democracy started over two centuries ago, will 


 forever remain the ''land of the free and home of the brave'' 


 so long as we never run out of tough young Americans who are 


 willing to look beyond their own self-interest and 


 comfortable lives, and go into the darkest and most dangerous 


 places on earth to hunt down, and kill, those who would do us 


 harm. God Bless America, and . . . SEMPER FIDELIS!
