# BLUE STAR/GOLD STAR FLAG ACT OF 2009
## `bfb40752cb6e9909a3cbf980636a5c4e`
`Ms. RICHARDSON — 24 May 2010`

---


Ms. RICHARDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today as a proud cosponsor of 
H.R. 2546, the Blue Star/Gold Star Flag Act of 2009, which will 
prohibit a condominium association, cooperative association, or real 
estate management association from preventing a resident from 
displaying a military service flag on his or her property or living 
space. This important measure will ensure that the families of our 
servicemen and servicewomen have the right to honor their brave loved 
ones for their service to this country.

I would like to thank Chairman Frank for his leadership in bringing 
this bill to the floor. I would also like to thank the sponsor of this 
legislation, Congressman Boccieri. I am deeply grateful to Congressman 
Boccieri for his service to this nation and I thank him for helping to 
ensure that no American is deprived of the opportunity to honor a 
family member who is courageously defending our country.

Madam Speaker, I am deeply saddened by accounts of individuals being 
required by condominium and apartment owners to remove the service 
flags flown in their windows or on their porches in honor of family 
members serving overseas. Every American deserves the right to honor a 
loved one serving in the military. Our Nation should never discourage 
expressions of support for its troops. Fortunately, this legislation 
will ensure that never again will a mother be told that she cannot 
honor her son or daughter, whose service fills her with pride and for 
whose wellbeing and safety she prays daily.

Madam Speaker, California's 37th district is home to over 24,000 
veterans and hundreds of brave men and women currently enlisted in the 
Armed Forces, many of whom are fighting in the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I am forever grateful for their service and consistently 
work to ensure that they receive recognition for their courage and the 
support they need upon returning home. I stand in solidarity with their 
families in honoring their bravery and hoping that those who are 
currently deployed soon return home to be reunited with their loved 
ones.

With Memorial Day just over a week away it is important that we take 
time to honor and express our gratitude for the fallen heroes who


made the ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our country. We must also 
commit ourselves to standing by the families of our brave men and women 
in uniform. My district has a long history of supporting military 
families. Long Beach is home to the Gold Star Manor, which provides 
affordable and quality housing to mothers who have lost sons or 
daughters in the service of their country. We must continue supporting 
the family members of our men and women in uniform and always express 
our gratitude for our troops' willingness to risk their lives on behalf 
of our Nation.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 2546.
