# EXTENDING AUTHORIZATION FOR THE AMERICAN VETERANS DISABLED FOR LIFE  MEMORIAL
## `bfc606d15fe26dcda0bacdda537f07d9`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 6 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to strongly support 
H.R. 995, to amend Public Law 106-348 to extend the authorization for 
establishing a memorial in the District or its environs to honor 
veterans who became disabled while serving in the Armed Forces of the 
United States.

Mr. Speaker, it is my distinct honor to stand here today to support a 
bill that will honor the service of veterans who have become disabled 
while serving in the Armed Forces. These veterans have given great 
contributions and made incredible personal sacrifices so that all of us 
in this country might live in a safe and secure nation and world. 
Establishing a memorial in the District of Columbia for these valiant 
warriors is only a small step towards repaying the insurmountable debt 
that all of us owe to all veterans. For, what is the price of freedom?

As President Kennedy once said, ''The price of freedom is high, but 
Americans have always paid it.'' And no one has paid a higher price 
than the brave men and women through the years who gave the last full 
measure of devotion to their country. Whether it is the ultimate 
sacrifice of life or the loss of limb or the loss of time with family 
and friends, we owe our veterans an enormous outstanding debt of 
gratitude.

From Bunker Hill to Yorktown, from Washington, DC to the Battle of 
New Orleans, from Bull Run to Gettysburg and Antietam to Appamattox, 
brave Americans gave their lives so that the nation might live. And 
from Alsace Lorain to Verdun, and Normandy to Berlin and Pearl Harbor 
to Okinawa, from Inchon and Correigador to Vietnam, Lebanon, Grenada, 
Kuwait, Afghanistan, and Iraq, Americans have nobly sacrificed their 
lives so that the world may live in freedom.

The debt of gratitude we owe to the soldiers, sailors, marines, and 
airmen who answered their nation's call and made supreme sacrifices can 
never be repaid. But the nation can follow President Lincoln's 
admonition to ''care for him who has borne the battle, and for his 
[family].'' Indeed, it is the least we can do.

It is out of my profound respect and gratitude for all who wear and 
have worn the uniform of the United States that I continue to work so 
hard to pass legislation that will ensure that veterans receive the 
health care, job opportunities, housing assistance, and educational 
benefits they deserve.

Because I realize that our veterans deserve our very best, I have 
recently introduced H.R. 1240, the Vision Impairment Specialist 
Training Act (VISTA). VISTA is a means to help our nation's blind and 
low-vision veterans by establishing a scholarship program for students 
seeking training in blind rehabilitation. There are 160,000 legally 
blind veterans in the United States, but only 35,000 are currently 
enrolled in the Veterans' Health Administration. Members of the Armed 
Forces are important to our Nation and we show them our appreciation by 
taking care of them when they no longer can serve.

Caring for our veterans also means giving them our time. I have had 
the honor of visiting with some of our wounded soldiers at Walter Reed 
Army Hospital in Washington, DC. Many of these soldiers were recovering 
from some of the most horrific wounds imaginable. But what made the 
most indelible impression on me was that to a man and woman, there was 
no self-pity or anger at their fate. Instead of anger or sorrow there 
was only concern for their fellow soldiers and pride in the certain 
knowledge that they had fought valiantly on behalf of a country they 
loved. There is no reason that any of our veterans should not receive 
the highest care from all of us in this country. I hope all Americans 
take the time to visit their local VA hospital and thank the wounded 
for their service to our country. We must do everything possible to let 
our veterans know how much we value their service.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to support H.R. 995.
