---
---

# CONSUMER ENERGY SUPPLY ACT OF 2008
## `bfd25afb28791895aeaeb11e859acf90`
`Mr. MARKEY — 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. MARKEY. I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Lampson and I and Mr. Van Hollen introduced this legislation 
under the leadership of Speaker Pelosi in order to ensure that the 
American people get the relief at the gas pump they need before Labor 
Day in 2008. But the Republicans are holding consumers hostage. No 
immediate relief, they are saying to American consumers, unless the 
ultimate agenda of Big Oil is met. Unless they are allowed to drill off 
the beaches 10 years from now, they will not allow the Strategic 
Petroleum Reserve to be used now in order to preserve it. Ten to 20 
days of relief is all it will take for us to get help to the American 
consumer. The Republican plan is 10 to 20 years, according to their own 
Department of Energy.

The President says he does not have a magic wand. Well, he does have 
a magic wand, he has a big stick and that big stick is the Strategic 
Petroleum Reserve that he can use right now to beat down the prices of 
oil which are driving American consumers crazy in terms of their home 
budgets.

Deploying the Strategic Petroleum Reserve works. It worked in 1991 
when President Bush's father used it. It worked in the year 2000 when 
President Clinton used it, and it worked after Hurricane Katrina when 
President Bush the Second used it. The President is willing to use the 
Army Reserve to go to Iraq to protect the oil over there, but he is not 
willing to use the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in order to protect 
American consumers here from the emergency which we are facing at 
home--high gas prices, home heating oil prices, natural gas prices, the 
airline industry going under, the trucking industry in desperate shape. 
But they will not use it right now.

The Democrats have a short-term plan, and that is to give relief in 
10 to 20 days. Use the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, use it as a weapon 
against speculators, against Big Oil and against OPEC; but the 
Republican Party is still the GOP; GOP, Gas and Oil Party. That's what 
this is all about.