---
---

# HONORING THE SACRIFICES AND CONTRIBUTIONS MADE BY DISABLED AMERICAN  VETERANS
## `bfd8ef18103afb3444549fe85f4082c2`
`Mr. SCALISE — 10 June 2008`

---


Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, for thousands of our Nation's soldiers, 
sailors, airmen and marines, the sacrifices of war far outlast the war 
itself. There are more than 2 million veterans with service-connected 
injuries or illnesses, including thousands who have returned from the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Thanks to advances in medical science, 
the vast majority of American servicemembers wounded in combat survive 
traumatic events that would have proven deadly in previous wars.

Previous generations of veterans have come home wounded from 
battlefields in Europe, the Korean peninsula, and the jungles of 
Vietnam. They have returned to America with permanent damage to limb or 
spirit.

Today's veterans of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi 
Freedom are suffering tragic injuries from


IED attacks and other hazards that are filling our military hospitals 
with victims who have lost limbs, with severe burns, and with head 
injuries.

We owe a debt of gratitude to all of these veterans whose physical or 
psychological well-being was permanently damaged in service to their 
country.

In my own district, disabled veterans have also had to endure the 
closing of the Southeast Louisiana VA Hospital due to damage from 
Hurricane Katrina. As a result, approximately 212,000 veterans in a 23-
parish area in southeast Louisiana have to travel up to 4 hours to go 
to other VA hospitals just to receive basic care. And as we all know, 
gas prices are now topping $4 a gallon, which further adds to the cost 
our disabled veterans are facing when they travel to and from VA 
facilities for their health care.

I want to express as well how gravely concerned I am at the high cost 
of fuel and how it is affecting their ability to stretch their limited 
pension and compensation dollars. I call on the Democratic leadership 
in Congress to step forward and join us to help these disabled veterans 
by addressing this problem and enacting a strong national energy policy 
that increases supply to lower gas prices.

I want to thank my colleagues in the House for passing the VA Medical 
Facility Authorization and Lease Act authorizing $625 million for 
Southeast Louisiana VA Hospital that was closed down due to damage 
caused by Hurricane Katrina. And I want to specifically recognize the 
leadership of Chairman Bob Filner and Ranking Member Steve Buyer in 
passing this critical legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I want to thank our disabled veterans for their 
sacrifice and contributions to the cause of freedom. The intent of this 
bill is to express America's eternal gratitude to these courageous 
heroes, and I urge all of my colleagues to support it. America's 
disabled veterans have honored us with their service and selfless duty. 
We should honor them by passing this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.