# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `bfffd2eaf4bcdb0d21fb12ce720b348b`
`Mr. TURNER â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. TURNER. Mr. Speaker, you cannot legislate victory in a military 
conflict--but you can legislate failure. This legislation abandons our 
troops and sets an arbitrary timetable for our withdrawal.

Although America's commitment in Iraq is not unlimited, this 
legislation sends the wrong message to our troops. Also, this bill 
contains unrelated spending such as subsidies for spinach farmers, and 
payments to citrus and peanut farmers.

I fully support the funding for BRAC and I was disappointed when the 
majority stripped $3 billion from the FY07 continuing resolution and 
replaced it in this legislation.

We have a Commander in Chief, who has replaced the military 
leadership, from the Secretary of Defense down to the Commanders on the 
ground. A new military strategy has been developed, based upon a 
strategy and commitments made by the Iraqi Government. Additional 
forces are being provided to support the Iraqi forces. This 
supplemental pulls the rug out from under the feet of our military 
commanders--and our troops. This legislation does not give the new 
commanders, the chance to succeed. It imposes restrictions and a 
deadline for withdrawal.

We've talked about supporting the troops. We need to provide the 
troops with tools, equipment, and moral support necessary for success. 
The legislation tells the troops, despite your sacrifices, we will not 
wait for you to get the job done. It tells our enemies to be patient, 
you only have to wait until August 2008. It tells our allies that the 
United States is not committed to peace and stability in the Middle 
East. I, for one, am opposed to sending that type of message.
