# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `c00062f2c4dda21b472d9afcf7d21710`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Speaker, the President's Iraq policy has 
been a complete catastrophe. It must be challenged. It must be changed. 
We must end this war.

The question we face is clear: Will Congress rubber-stamp a fifth 
year of a failed policy, or will Congress finally, after 4 straight 
years of lock-step compliance with an incompetent administration, 
compel a new direction that ends the war?

The President has arrogantly asserted that he will veto any measure 
with a timetable. Mr. Speaker, I will not support any bill without a 
timetable. If I had a chance to write this bill, like my colleague from 
Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern), I would bring our troops home yesterday. 
But I did not write this bill, so I must measure it based on three 
criteria: Does it impose accountability on the President and Iraqis? 
Does it revoke the President's blank check? Does it establish a date 
certain with the force of law that will end this war?



This bill meets each of these objectives. Regrettably if this bill 
fails, the war will continue, unchecked and unabated.

It is time for the Iraqis to accept responsibility for shaping their 
own future. Even President Bush has acknowledged the importance of 
imposing measurable benchmarks of success on the Iraqi Government. This 
legislation replaces Presidential lip service with congressional force 
of law.

There is a reason the President threatens to veto this bill: It is 
because Congress is finally revoking his blank check.

Mr. Speaker, there is no easy way to clean up the mess in Iraq or to 
avert further suffering. Our obligation remains to decide, at this time 
and place, whether to stay the President's course or to end this war as 
soon as possible.



I will support this bill because it finally puts us on the path to 
end the unconscionable war.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
