---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `c00d89cd0151130c2a645cb4dfa5fda3`
`Mr. DeMINT — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. DeMINT. Mr. President, I want to take a few moments in the middle 
of the debate on the Defense appropriations bill to talk about a 
situation in Honduras and, maybe equally important, a situation here in 
the Senate.

Honduras has come to the attention of many Americans because of the 
change in government there and the questions about whether this was 
done constitutionally. I had arranged a trip, along with a few House 
Members, to go to Honduras and meet with officials and find out more 
about the situation. Unfortunately, I found out this afternoon that the 
chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee was blocking my trip, along 
with the State Department.

It is very concerning since no Member of the Senate has taken the 
time to go to Honduras, which is a very close ally to this country, 
where we have a military base. And they certainly depend on our 
support. I have a growing concern of what appears to be intimidation 
and bullying from our administration, and I wanted to have a fact-
finding trip. This body normally accords fellow Members the courtesy, 
and this was very disturbing that we would use politics to block a trip 
such as this.

But I wish to give a little bit of background on Honduras. Since so 
many other things are going on, not many people here in the Senate seem 
to even be aware of the situation.

On June 28, then-President Manuel Zelaya was removed from office and 
arrested by the Honduran military, on orders from the Honduran Supreme 
Court, and in accordance with the Honduran Constitution.

Charged with crimes of both public corruption and abuse of power, 
President Zelaya was attempting to subvert the Honduran Constitution 
and install himself as a dictator in the mold of his close friend Hugo 
Chavez.

Within hours, the Obama administration made an uninformed decision to 
call this constitutional process a ''coup,'' despite no one at the 
State Department or the White House having made a thorough review of 
the facts and the law.

Instead, we simply follow the lead of the Western Hemisphere's most 
corrupt and anti-American tyrants: Fidel Castro of Cuba, Daniel Ortega 
of Nicaragua, and Hugo Chavez of Venezuela. The President sided with 
these thugs and against Honduras--a poor, loyal, and democratic friend 
of the United States.

To date, I am unaware of any provision in the Honduran Constitution 
that was violated in Zelaya's removal from office, except perhaps 
removing him from the country instead of putting him in jail.

The Congress, of Zelaya's party, the Supreme Court, the Attorney 
General, the Supreme Electoral Tribunal, and the vast majority of the 
Honduran people support Zelaya's removal.

The Honduran military has remained at all times under civilian 
control. The November 29 elections remain on schedule. Interim 
President Roberto Micheletti is not on the ballot. The nominees for the 
major political parties are campaigning, and the country's citizens are 
preparing for a free, fair, and transparent election.

If that does not sound like a coup to you, you are not alone. Last 
month, a thorough report--and I have it here--by the Congressional 
Research Service found that the removal of Zelaya and the actions of 
the Congress and Supreme Court were both legal and constitutional--a 
very detailed evaluation which apparently the administration has not 
taken the time to see. There was no coup. But the Obama administration, 
nevertheless, has cut off Honduras from millions of dollars of badly 
needed United States aid.

The trip I planned--which is tomorrow--along with three Members of 
the House of Representatives was to get to the bottom of this so we 
could report back to the Senate and the House as to what was going on.



Our trip met every necessary criteria. I have scheduled meetings with 
President Micheletti, the Supreme Court, and the leading candidates in 
next month's Presidential election. I was going to meet with the 
business and civic leaders.

This afternoon, I was informed that the Senator from Massachusetts, 
Senator Kerry, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, was 
blocking the trip. No reason was given, except that there were concerns 
at the State Department. If I were the Obama State Department, I would 
have concerns too, concerns the American people might find out the 
truth about what we are doing to the Honduran people.

To date, not a single Member of the Senate has assessed the situation 
in Honduras firsthand, and the Obama administration refuses to allow 
Honduran leaders and even private citizens to come here to talk to us. 
What are they afraid of? Are they afraid of the world discovering that 
their policy is based on a lie concocted by Hugo Chavez and the Castro 
brothers? That we are backing a corrupt would-be tyrant?

This administration is only too eager--or at least seems to be too 
eager--to talk to any anti-American tyrant on Earth, but not even 
Members of Congress may visit a loyal ally 3 hours away.

I want to take this opportunity to thank the Republican leader, 
Senator Mitch McConnell, for stepping in and authorizing the trip. He 
would like to get to the bottom of this as well.

The trip is back on, and I look forward to reporting back to the 
Senate next week after my return. But this is an outrage, if not a 
surprise. For 8 months, President Obama has circled the globe, 
apologizing for America, appeasing our enemies, and insulting our 
friends. Meanwhile, the President has spent more time lobbying for the 
Olympics and appearing on late-night comedy shows than meeting with his 
advisers about the troop surge in Afghanistan.

Apparently, the administration is upset with me because I am asking 
for a debate and vote on two nominations they want for the State 
Department. Indeed, I was told today if I lifted my holds, the trip 
would be authorized by the Foreign Relations Committee.

The two nominees are Thomas Shannon, currently Assistant Secretary of 
State for Latin America, President Obama's nominee to be Ambassador to 
Brazil, and Arturo Valenzuela, currently an academic nominated to 
replace Shannon at the Latin American desk.

I am asking for debate and a vote on Mr. Shannon's nomination because 
he has supposedly been behind our policy in Latin America in recent 
years. Our mistakes in Honduras occurred on his watch, and with his 
advice. He was a Bush appointee, but I have a lot of questions about 
what is going on in Honduras. He supports the Obama aid cutoff and the 
''coup'' classification. He hardly deserves now to represent America in 
the largest country in Latin America, at least without a debate and a 
vote.

Mr. Valenzuela shares these positions, even though he admitted at his 
confirmation hearing he was not up to date on the facts.

Unless and until the Obama administration reverses its ill-informed 
and baseless claim that Zelaya's removal was a coup and also restores 
American aid, I will continue to ask for a debate and vote on these 
nominees so we can discuss the issue openly on the floor of the Senate.

This country also needs to recognize the upcoming election, which has 
been going on. The campaign is open and transparent, but the Obama 
administration is threatening not to recognize the election, which is 
destabilizing the country and threatening to do more harm not only in 
Honduras but throughout Latin America. This policy is confirming Hugo 
Chavez. It certainly is not confirming a constitutional form of 
government.

I look forward to reporting back to my fellow Members what I find in 
Honduras. I again thank Mitch McConnell for taking the initiative to 
make sure the trip is authorized.

With that, Mr. President, I yield back.