---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c01a172e0db615814d7fe4218a6a4941`
`Mr. HIGGINS — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. HIGGINS. Mr. Speaker, as this debate comes to a close, much has 
been said. Certainly not everything. The House is considering a 
resolution concerning the Iraq war. It expresses the unequivocal 
support of this body for the American troops serving in Iraq and for 
their families. This resolution expresses opposition to the President's 
planned surge, escalation, augmentation. Call it what you will. But, 
more than anything else, this resolution opposes the administration's 
deeper commitment to a fundamentally and deeply flawed military 
strategy.

The fact is that Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki lacks the authority or 
the will to confront Shi'a militias. To do so would result in a major 
confrontation with the militia leader Moqtada al-Sadr, without whom the 
Iraqi government has little support. These dangerous Iraqi alliances 
and compelling evidence of a strong Iranian alliance demonstrates how 
weak the National Unity Government is and how pathetically dependent we 
are on them for success in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, the American people deserve much better. Surging troop 
levels in Iraq was tried in 2004, 2005 and 2006. Each time, it failed 
to reduce violence and only served to inflame anti-American sentiment.

Under the President's plan, it is still the American troops that do 
most of the fighting and, regrettably, will do most of the dying. For 
any decent outcome in Iraq, the President has to be serious about 
setting and enforcing deadlines. The President needs to demand that 
Prime Minister Maliki stop protecting the militias and make clear there 
will be serious consequences if he continues to do so.

The problem in Iraq is the same as it was when the conflict started: 
American war planners never provided the resources to successfully 
create a vital and secure center from which a functioning society could 
evolve.

The history is clear. Modern Iraq was born out of a strong 
nationalist aspiration in the early 20th century. Shi'a, Sunni, 
Christians and Jews stood united against the British and peacefully 
created and coexisted in a new, ethnically diverse Iraq.

Then, Iraqis prayed at each other's mosques. Today, Shi'a and Sunni 
militias bomb each other's mosques with impunity. Last month, 70 
college students were slaughtered by a car bomb in Baghdad. Iraqi 
weddings, funerals and schools are the regular targets of suicide 
bombers. These are called ''revenge killings.'' They are carried out in 
the name of destiny and in the name of God.

Where is the outrage? Where is the condemnation for these atrocities 
in the Arab Muslim community? Nowhere does the Koran talk about revenge 
killings, violence, hate or intolerance. The Koran describes the 
Prophet Muhammad as the Prophet of Mercy. At the core of Islamic belief 
is compassion, forgiveness and tolerance: To you your faith and to me 
mine.

Absent the real possibility of a functioning government, a 
functioning society, a functioning economy, the National Unity 
Government of Iraq cannot succeed because it lacks legitimacy in the 
very eyes of those it seeks to govern. Elections and forming 
governments are the symbols of democracy. Legitimacy in the eyes of the 
governed is the substance of democracy and that of free and open 
societies throughout the world.

Madam Speaker, I don't stand here as a partisan. I am an American, 
and I want my country to succeed. I want my President to succeed, 
regardless of party affiliation, regardless of who he or she may be.

The fact of the matter is, we have an obligation to tell the truth to 
the American people at every level, militarily and politically. This 
strategy, advanced and sustained by this administration, has been an 
abject failure.