# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `c01dc15b80a903eae781718db7ca24cb`
`Ms. CASTOR — 16 May 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I think it is also very important for the record to reflect that the 
Army is fully funded in its needs. Indeed, $13.6 billion are authorized 
through this Defense bill to fully address the equipment reset of the 
Army.

What has happened, because of the war in Iraq and in Afghanistan, and 
we all know this, but readiness of our Armed Forces has suffered. 
Indeed, the Army Chief of Staff testified before the Armed Services 
Committee that the escalation of the war creates a terrible strategic 
risk for this country.

If there was any other threat from across the globe that threatened 
our national security, it would be very difficult for us to respond 
because all of the equipment, all of the trucks, the Humvees, are there 
in Iraq. When the units are deployed and go over to Iraq, they are not 
able to bring the equipment back.

This was highlighted recently in the State of Kansas with these 
terrible tornados, when the governor of Kansas told us directly that 
they were not able to respond as quickly. I'll tell you, coming from 
the State of Florida, at the beginning of the hurricane season, this is 
an issue.

We have also had to make these tough decisions about equipping our


warriors on the ground with the equipment that they need.

The Army came forward during their budget discussion in Armed 
Services and said our most critical need are these mine-resistant 
ambush vehicles that have the armor to withstand the IEDs that has 
caused so much death and destruction. The Bush administration did not 
have a funding plan for those MRAP vehicles. So what do we do?

We have got to provide the troops on the ground with the equipment 
they need to stay safe and survive. Does that mean that some other 
programs that aren't as tested and aren't as proven get a slight cut? 
Yes, it does. Yes, it does, because that is a priority, protecting the 
troops on the ground today.