---
---

# None
## `c01ed2e177f188403a59f9c3d49fe088`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 10 July 2009`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. I thank Ms. Pingree for the opportunity to speak on 
this rule, and I just want to thank my friends Chet Edwards and Zach 
Wamp for their leadership and hard work in crafting this bill and their 
unfailing support of American servicemembers and veterans. With wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan ongoing and an increasingly


high volume of men and women servicemembers returning home, funding 
their needs remains a top priority.

As much now as ever, Congress needs to be making critical investments 
in construction projects which support servicemembers, safety and 
quality of life at home and on the battlefield. We must also make good 
our promise to our soldiers returning home from war, by improving their 
health care facilities and services and by providing them with the best 
care possible. We also need to aid them in their transition to civilian 
life by fully funding the Department of Veterans Affairs.

Our veterans deserve a bill which honors their remarkable service in 
the protection of our country. That's what this bill does that we are 
going to hear here today. The bill increases funding for the Veterans 
Health Administration by $4.4 billion over last year. This improves 
access to medical services for veterans for key programs in treating 
mental health issues, assistance for homeless veterans, and measures to 
improve access to health care for many veterans who live in rural areas 
such as those in Colorado.

The bill also expands funding for essential investments in 
information technology which speed processing of benefits, claims, and 
makes needed improvements in the accuracy and efficiency with the 
expanded use of electronic health records. I especially want to thank 
the Veterans' Committee, the Appropriations Committee in taking a good 
look and a hard look at processing claims, which for a long time were 
lagging and people were not getting their claims heard. There has been 
a tremendous effort and focus over the last couple of years to make the 
claims process much quicker, much faster, much more accurate.