---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c02ff5604ffe9f9cf91e5f22613ddd68`
`Mr. PICKERING — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. PICKERING. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to this 
resolution.

As we look back through our Nation's history, and we look back at all


the great chapters, there were moments, decisive, critical moments, 
where our Nation could have given up, or given in, could have 
withdrawn, could have surrendered, and those moments that make us most 
proud are those chapters in our history where we did not give up, 
retreat, surrender.

If we had a mission, we completed it. If we look to Lincoln's message 
at one of those turning and tipping points in our history at 
Gettysburg, when this Nation was in the midst of its bloodiest civil 
war, Lincoln said, We here highly resolve that these dead shall not 
have died in vain, that this Nation under God shall have a new birth of 
freedom.

We have a new Nation trying to grasp its first breath of freedom, to 
form a more perfect union of freedom and equality and democracy.

Lincoln's second inaugural address: With malice toward none, with 
charity for all, with firmness and the right as God gives us to see the 
right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the 
Nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle and 
for his widow and his orphan, to do all which may achieve and cherish a 
just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations.

Today I took a couple on a tour of this great Capitol, and we walked 
into the Rotunda under the magnificent dome, the place where if you put 
the Statue of Liberty, it would still have room within that dome.

The dome was finished and constructed during our Civil War. Abraham 
Lincoln was questioned during that time, Shall we devote our time and 
our resources and the labor to the completion of the dome, or should 
that go to the war effort? And Lincoln said, No, that is a symbol of 
our union, and we will complete the work of the dome.

When Lee met Grant at Appomattox, it is said that Lee's first 
question to Grant was, Have they finished the dome yet? They had just 
finished it in the spring of 1865.

Today that dome defines and symbolizes the strength of our Nation and 
of our democracy. Many in the world probably thought during that time 
that we would never survive, and the real question for many of us today 
as a Nation at war that is spiraling in civil war, can that civil war 
end? Can a nation be unified? Could the hatred and the violence be 
stopped and then reconciliation bring unity?

There are many on the other side who believe that it is futile, that 
all civil wars will never end, that these ancient hatreds will not 
stop. But if we look to our recent history in Bosnia, there was a 
President of the other party who stood and said, We can intervene. We 
will give our military and our diplomatic resources to bring about an 
end to civil war.

He was successful, and history judges him well for that. To be 
honest, many on this side of the aisle did not stand in support of that 
President at that time. But our Nation remembers and are glad that we 
had a leader who intervened and brought stability to a critical region 
of the world, and new democracies emerged.

We started this effort together after 9/11. We all remember standing 
on the steps and singing ''God bless America.'' We can remember going 
to the cathedral, the National Cathedral, and praying for our guidance 
and for our unity. We authorized the war together. We adopted a policy 
of regime change together, overwhelmingly.

And now, 4 years later, when it is difficult and grave doubts rise, 
will we give up, or will we complete the work and finish the work in 
which we can be proud?



Lieutenant Joshua Trapp, who flies Apache helicopters in Iraq, 
deployed this spring after his marriage to Elizabeth of only 3 weeks. 
He now believes and hopes that he can complete his mission.

I rise today in Joshua Trapp's name, and all of those other 
Mississippians who have given their lives, that their life may not have 
been in vain, and that their mission may be supported in this body in 
this time and this place and that it is a chapter we in this place will 
remember as we age and grow old that we did not walk away, retreat, 
surrender, but we finished the mission.