# DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `c0313b7a082b50840c3c27315ed6f7d6`
`Mr. DURBIN — 15 October 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. The math is right. This President has funded this war in 
Iraq and Afghanistan borrowing money from future generations. He has 
not paid for a single day of this war by imposing a tax or cutting 
spending in some other area. He is the first President in the history 
of the United States, in the entire history of our Nation, to cut taxes 
in the midst of war.

I am sure the Senator from North Dakota joined a lot of us in 
watching the Ken Burns documentary ''The War.'' It has been on for the 
last couple weeks on public television. One of our great friends and 
heroes in the Senate, Danny Inouye of Hawaii, was featured in it, as he 
should have been. A Congressional Medal of Honor recipient, he


told the story of his life that led to his service to our country. You 
couldn't help but feel that America was at war. It wasn't just our 
soldiers and sailors and marines and airmen; America was at war. We 
were all involved.

This war which has claimed 3,821 American lives, this war which has 
injured more than 30,000 of our fighting men and women, this war which 
has left 10,000 grievously injured with amputations and serious burns, 
this war has been waged in a much different way.

When America was going to wage this war on terrorism, the President 
said: We are going to invade Iraq. And America, you can help: go 
shopping.

That isn't what they said in World War II. They said: We can all 
pitch in together and get behind this effort.

Then he said: We have to sacrifice. We have to give tax cuts to 
people at the wealthiest levels.

So we end up with a debt, a debt that continues to grow because the 
President does not pay for a penny of this war. The Senator from North 
Dakota is right. It will be close to $750 billion by the end of next 
year. We are spending $12 to $15 billion a month on this war in Iraq, 
none of it is paid for, none of it is generated by taxes, and none of 
it is paid for by compensating cuts in other spending. It is added to 
our debt.

The President who proclaims himself a fiscal conservative when it 
comes to vetoing a children's health insurance program within the next 
several days will send us a massive spending bill of $190 or $200 
billion for the next year of this war. The $7 billion for health 
insurance for children is paid for; the President says it is wasted 
Federal funds. But $200 billion for a war with no end in sight he 
considers to be appropriate. I don't understand this. I understand we 
have to stand behind our men and women in uniform. But a strong America 
begins at home. It begins with our families and our communities and our 
parishes and church groups and neighborhoods. It begins with the peace 
of mind of knowing that you have health insurance. For literally 3.8 
million children, the President's veto means no help to buy private 
health insurance so these families have a chance to have that peace of 
mind.


I sincerely hope those who feel this is an important program will 
contact their Members of Congress--both House and Senate--in the next 
48 hours. This is a critical moment in our history. We have to decide 
once and for all whether we are going to start taking important steps 
forward to bring the peace of mind of health insurance to every family 
in America. That is a worthy American goal. President Bush's veto 
should not stand in its way. I certainly hope the House of 
Representatives, when it votes on Wednesday, will override this 
Presidential veto.

I yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.