---
---

# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `c038f7d24eee5dc300c29238d31c9fe1`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 3 October 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. First, I would like to thank my colleague from 
Virginia for his support of the amendment and just close with these 
remarks.

U.S. taxpayers have paid billions to private security contractors in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. I believe that Congress must know if they are 
engaging in criminal behavior that puts the U.S. Armed Forces and our 
mission at risk, and what the government is doing to address it.

Congress and the American people are beginning to understand the vast 
impact that contractors are playing in our military operations. These 
private contractors are not, right now, accountable to the military, 
but their actions often put our brave military men and women at risk.

Currently, the U.S. military is using an estimated 180,000 private 
contractors in operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many are performing 
duties that are often considered inherently governmental functions, 
such as military operations, intelligence gathering, law enforcement, 
security and criminal justice functions. But despite the critical role 
that contractors are playing, Congress is unable to determine the full 
impact of contractors on U.S. military operations.

We have all heard about the tragic incident in Iraq on September 16 
when Blackwater employees reportedly killed 11 Iraqi civilians, and 
another unconscionable incident on Christmas Eve 2006 when a drunk 
Blackwater guard killed an Iraqi security guard for the Iraqi Vice 
President. He was flown out of the country within 36 hours and has 
faced no charge or punishment for his crime.



We should be outraged that with incidents like these reported 
prominently in the press, and with the hundreds of thousands of 
contractors who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan, that only two have 
ever been charged with any crime.

I urge support for the amendment.