# HONORING CONGDON'S DOUGHNUTS
## `c0388a17f70bebc108850e7f3e9ba056`
`Ms. SNOWE — 17 September 2008`

---

 Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, as our Nation and our world become 
increasingly complex and fast paced, it may seem easy to lose track of 
the simple but essential ties that bind us to those in our communities. 
It is with pleasure that I recognize a small family business from my 
home State of Maine that has succeeded in ushering a timeless classic 
into the modern world. Congdon's Doughnuts in Wells has been a York 
County institution for well over 50 years, providing tasty treats and 
community support for generations of locals and tourists.

For the early riser among us, few indulgences are more appealing than 
a sticky sweet doughnut and a fresh-brewed cup of coffee. Congdon's 
Doughnuts has provided just that to thousands of customers as it has 
churned out up to 10,000 homemade doughnuts a day for three 
generations. Founded in 1945, and located at its current site since 
1955, the company has undergone many of the trials and tribulations 
that often challenge America's small businesses. Yet through the hard 
work and unwavering dedication of the Congdon family and their 
employees, the business has transformed itself from a small wholesale 
doughnut operation to a three-meal-a-day restaurant and bakery. Under 
present managers Gary Leech, son of Eleanor Congdon, and his wife Diane 
Leech, Congdon's also added a convenient drive-thru in 2002 for those 
on the go. The firm has been so successful that this past March, the 
Best Independent Restaurants Association awarded Congdon's Doughnuts 
its highest level of recognition, the prestigious Best Family 
Restaurant Platinum Plate Award.

While known for providing plentiful options for breakfast, lunch, and 
dinner, the centerpiece of the Congdon enterprise remains its timeless 
and highly acclaimed doughnuts. With dozens of tempting and delicious 
varieties of the traditional breakfast morsels, from cinnamon and 
coconut to chocolate honey and apple fritter, Congdon's has something 
to satisfy any doughnut eater and has garnered acclaim both locally and 
nationally. Indeed, Portland Magazine, a regional publication, has 
placed Congdon's doughnuts on its list of ''101 of Maine's Guiltiest 
Guilty Pleasures,'' and in 2007 Congdon's was included on the Doughnut 
Honor Roll of seriouseats.com, the Web site of famed food critic Ed 
Levin.

While Congdon's has long been involved in local charitable and 
community efforts, for the last 2 years it has institutionalized the 
commitment to its neighbors by joining other local businesses to host 
weekly benefit barbeques. Every Wednesday in July and August, community 
members come together for fun-filled tropical-themed parties. Ticket 
sales for these popular events have raised money for local and national 
charities and organizations including the American Heart Association, 
Southern Maine Parent Awareness, and Trolley for Togus, which provides 
transportation for York County veterans to Maine's VA hospital. 
Additionally, last December Congdon's offered its guests holiday cards 
to sign for our Nation's soldiers, and then sent over 500 of them to 
men and women serving in Iraq.

Congdon's Doughnuts exemplifies the best qualities of being both a 
prosperous business and a caring neighbor. It is with great pride that 
I congratulate Condgon's on its decades of successes and I wish them 
the best of luck for the future as they continue to reach new heights 
as a purveyor of delectable treats and old-fashioned American 
cuisine.
