---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c03c5fce5065919f8a931efbb04e418c`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I grew up surrounded by heroes. My 
father, Byard Braley, got permission from his mother at the age of 17 
to enlist in the Marine Corps, and 1 year later found himself landing 
on Iwo Jima, the same day the flags were raised on Mount Suribachi. 
Thirty thousand marines and Japanese soldiers lost their lives in 1 
month on an island the same size as my hometown of Brooklyn, Iowa.

My father saw one of his best friends vaporized by a shell burst, and 
we did not learn that fact until 15 years after he died.

The same night that my father landed on Iwo Jima, another marine from 
my hometown of Brooklyn slept under those flags as Japanese bombs flew 
overhead. Harold Keller was the real deal. He was the second marine to 
reach the summit of Mount Suribachi, and he single-handedly fought off 
a Japanese counterattack and rescued the people you see depicted in 
Flags of Our Fathers.

When he came home to my hometown, he repaired milking equipment for 
area farmers. My uncle Gordon Braley served in the merchant marine, 
guarding allied shipping lanes in the North Atlantic.



My Uncle Bert Braley served in the Army Air Corps, and my Uncle Lyle 
Nesselroad served in the Navy. My cousin, Dick Braley, was a Marine 
Corps artillery officer at a firebase in Vietnam.

These ordinary men taught me that patriotism is not something you 
claim by putting down others who disagree with your viewpoints. It is 
something you earn by the way you live your life, the respect you have 
for the institutions that make the United States a great beacon of 
liberty, freedom and justice.

When I return to my hometown of Waterloo, Iowa, I am still surrounded 
by heroes. These heroes belong to the battalion of the Ironman 
Battalion of the Iowa National Guard. They are approximately 560 
fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters from Waterloo, Dubuque, Oelwein 
and everywhere in between.

One of them, Ray Zirkelbach, is missing his second consecutive year 
in the Iowa House of Representatives, because their latest tour was 
recently extended. A flag is draped over his desk in the House chamber.

These heroes are the reason why I stand here today in opposition to 
the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq. On November 7, 2006, 
the voters of this country went to the polls and clearly stated that it 
is time for a new direction in Iraq.

Soon after, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group presented President Bush 
with a desperately needed blueprint for change. They recognized that 
the deteriorating crisis in Iraq couldn't be solved by military action. 
Instead, it required a political solution between warring factions for 
a stable democracy to evolve.

The Iraq Study Group recognized that ''stay the course'' was a failed 
strategy, and that three prior troop surges had done little to stem the 
growing violence. They knew that the Iraqis would never get serious 
about standing up for their own country until they were confronted with 
a timetable for redeploying our forces.

After I was sworn in as a Member of Congress on January 4, I hoped 
that President Bush would listen to the advice of this bipartisan group 
whose recommendations he welcomed.

I hoped that he would move to fulfill the promise of the Defense 
Authorization Act of 2006, when this Congress stated that 2006 would be 
a period of significant transition in Iraq, with the Iraqi Security 
Forces taking the lead for their own security, so we could begin a 
phased redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq. Instead, the President 
ignored the recommendations of the study group and chose to escalate 
the war in Iraq without charting a new course.

To my friends on the other side of the aisle who disagree with the 
resolution we are debating today, by all means vote your conscience. I 
will be voting my conscience and joining well-known Republicans who 
agree that the escalation is a mistake:

People like Senator Chuck Hagel of my neighboring State of Nebraska, 
who called the President's escalation plan the most dangerous foreign 
policy blunder in this country since Vietnam, if it is carried out.

People like former Iowa Representative Jim Leach, who said that the 
President's policy in Iraq may go down as the greatest foreign policy 
blunder in U.S. history.

Well-respected military experts also oppose this escalation, 
including General Colin Powell, General George Casey and the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff.

The President truly stands alone with a strategy that his own 
generals, key Republicans, and the American people oppose. The time is 
long overdue for the people's House to reassert its rightful place in 
our constitutional system of checks and balances.

We have a duty to send a message that it is time for real change in 
Iraq, change characterized by accountability and redeployment of our 
troops. There will be no more blank checks. There will be tough 
questions in oversight, and I will work hard to make sure that this 
happens. I ask everyone to support the resolution