---
---

# EXPRESSING SENSE OF HOUSE THAT CONGRESS SHOULD INCREASE PUBLIC  AWARENESS OF CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT
## `c041f45dfaa2c2470020d31b926335e3`
`Mr. STARK — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of 
increasing public awareness of child abuse and neglect. Nearly 900,000 
children were found to be victims of abuse and neglect in 2005. This is 
unacceptable. Congress must take bold action to protect our Nation's 
children.

Abused and neglected children face a trauma that does not end when 
the abuse stops. They must also contend with numerous future problems 
stemming from their abuse and neglect, including mental illness, poor 
academic achievement, and criminal behavior. In addition, abuse and 
neglect often starts or continues a cycle of abuse where a third of 
victimized children go on to become abusers themselves.

Congress has taken steps to prevent and ameliorate child abuse and 
neglect through programs such as the Promoting Safe and Stable Families 
program, Child Welfare Services, and the Community Based Child Abuse 
Prevention program. These are all good programs, but Congress and the 
President have consistently under funded them. For example, in fiscal 
year 2006, the Community Based Child Abuse Prevention program was under 
funded by $38 million. Congress must fully fund these programs at their 
authorized levels. The fraudulent war in Iraq and tax cuts for the rich 
has placed us in a difficult fiscal situation. Even so, we must fund 
the services that protect our most vulnerable children.



By increasing public awareness of child abuse and neglect, we also 
have an opportunity to implement new policies that address the health 
and safety of our children. There are 8 million uninsured children in 
this country. Continuing to deny health care to all children is simply 
another form of child neglect. We should work to provide health 
coverage to every child.

I hope that the resolution before us will help to galvanize this body 
to push for policies that protect and nurture children. The thousands 
of abused children and the millions of uninsured children deserve our 
attention and commitment.