---
---

# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `c0425f96ac472c6a9de23f39ad43b3c4`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 17 June 2009`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my strong 
support for H.R. 2410, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Years 2010 and 2011. I want to commend my colleague, Mr. Berman 
of California, for his leadership in moving this important bill through 
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and bringing it to the Floor today. 
This important legislation represents an opportunity for the U.S. 
Congress to assert its proper advisory role in shaping civilian 
elements of our national security infrastructure.

This legislation firmly launches the U.S. on an effort to invigorate 
our frontline defense: Diplomatic and development capabilities at the 
heart of our vast global engagements. Of course, diplomacy is effective 
only if backed by a robust military, but we know even heroic efforts by 
our military forces in Iraq and Afghanistan won't secure stable 
victories without complementary civilian efforts.

This bill reinvests in our ability to build global consensus that 
favors U.S. interests. It increases Peace Corps programs and expands 
public diplomacy, broadcasting, and educational exchanges that will 
forge lasting bonds and build allies. Finally, this bill removes our 
arrearages to the United Nations, boosting our credibility in this key 
forum that lends legitimacy and effectiveness to so many of our 
multilateral endeavors. It also seeks to realign U.S. policies on 
controlled exports, streamlining licensing to help protect U.S. jobs 
and preserve the competitive edge of U.S. businesses while preserving 
nonproliferation goals.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill 
that represents a significant step towards restoring diplomacy as our 
Nation's first line of defense. By expanding dialogue, diplomacy, and 
development today, we will avoid the far greater costs of solving 
crises that instead would emerge from our indifference.
