---
---

# FIND WAYS TO COME TOGETHER ON IRAQ
## `c047978c8f0b60ebc068e651de62a02b`
`Mr. SHAYS — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. I thank you for your question.

What was stunning about the 9/11 Commission was it was Republicans 
and Democrats, liberals and conservatives all trying to find common 
ground for addressing what was really a frightening sea change in our 
society, and that was the recognition that there was a real threat. And 
they called it ''Islamist terrorism,'' which the Islamist community 
needs to deal with as well. I mean, it is not Islamists, it is these 
radical Islamist terrorists. But the Iraqi Study Group had that same 
approach, Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservatives making 
an assessment of the problem, and then recommending what needed to 
happen.

I would like to suggest something. And I would be interested, Mr. 
Israel, how you would react to this, and that is, Mr. Petraeus and our 
ambassador are going to make a report in September. And I was thinking, 
you know, there could be a view they have a vested interest.

So one of the things that I would like to promote is that this same 
Iraqi Study Group go back to Iraq and say,


okay, this is what we found then, this is what we recommended. This is 
what General Petraeus is recommending and our ambassador. We either 
verify it or don't, or have subtle changes to it or maybe significant 
changes. But in other words, bring this third party back in to make an 
analysis since they already have credibility, and clearly General 
Petraeus does and our ambassador does as well. But I would be curious 
to know if any of you think there is merit to that idea.