---
---

# A BILL TO DIRECT THE PRESIDENT TO TRANSMIT TO CONGRESS A REPORT ON  ANTI-AMERICAN INCITEMENT TO VIOLENCE IN THE MIDDLE EAST
## `c04cfe9c2924738c3fa5087ea97f80cf`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 17 December 2009`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, H.R. 2278 condemns the use by groups 
designated as Foreign Terrorist Organizations in the Middle East of 
television programs to incite anti-American violence.

I do not condone the use of television programming to promote anti-
American sentiment in the Middle East; I strongly object to it. 
Similarly, I strongly condemn ongoing policies that seek to punish 
civilian populations in an effort to undermine political leadership in 
their respective countries. However, if we want to stop anti-American 
incitement in the Middle East, we must end our military occupation of 
Iraq and Afghanistan, we must put an end to the drone attacks in 
Pakistan and we must end the blockade of Gaza.

Our continued occupation fuels the insurgency in Iraq and the Taliban 
in Afghanistan. Just this week, over 100 people have been killed and 
almost 200 wounded in a series of bombings in Baghdad, resulting in one 
of the deadliest attacks in Iraq this year. President Obama accepted 
his Nobel Peace Prize as over 16,000 American troops were readying for 
deployment as part of our military escalation in Afghanistan.

More unmanned drone attacks in Pakistan have been authorized by 
President Obama during his first three months in office than President 
Bush ordered during his entire presidency. Predator drones have killed 
hundreds of innocent civilians and have spurred significant anti-
American sentiment. The recent revelations that the C.I.A. is running 
the predator drone program show that we are deploying an extraordinary 
use of lethal force in a country we are not at war with.



On the eve of the one-year anniversary of Operation Cast Lead, the 
people of Gaza continue to suffer immeasurably under the U.S. imposed 
blockade, living in tents next to the remains of their homes. Not one 
house has been rebuilt and not one pane of glass has been allowed in. 
Ninety-five percent of the drinking water is unfit for human 
consumption as the man-made humanitarian crisis continues. The United 
States and our closest ally, Israel, have a responsibility to uphold 
international humanitarian and international human rights law, both of 
which are violated by this blockade.

A resolution condemning television programming by designated Foreign 
Terrorist Organizations does not make our condemnation of terrorist 
acts more clear. Furthermore, this resolution does nothing to bring the 
United States and our friends in the Middle East closer to peace and 
stability. Anti-American sentiment in the Middle East can only be 
solved through diplomatic means and through the consistent application 
of peaceful solutions that ensure the security and basic human rights 
of all people.
