---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `c063fe39c82dc85db3d61b767168d105`
`Mr. SMITH — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH. Mr. President, today I have submitted an amendment that 
would help tackle an alarming problem with our men and women who serve 
in the Armed Forces, the Heroes Helping Heroes Act.

I have introduced the Heroes Helping Heroes Act in the Senate this 
year to provide funding for peer support programs so that trained 
veterans can help returning veterans navigate the sometimes perilous 
transition to civilian life.

My intention is to expand the use of peer-support approaches to 
assist the reintegration of America's veterans as they return from 
active duty to their homes and communities. We hope that this 
legislation will demonstrate the effectiveness of peer-support 
approaches and ease the burden of the social, economic, medical and 
psychological struggles our veterans face.

Fortunately, ''peer-support'' approaches offer a low cost and 
effective adjunct to traditional services by allowing the heroes of our 
country to help each other. Veteran peer-support offers two things that 
no kind of professionalized service can ever hope to: the support of 
someone who has had the same kinds of experiences and truly understands 
what the veteran is going through; and the potential of a large pool of 
experienced volunteers who can assist and support returning veterans at 
very little cost.

Last week I held a hearing on the issues surrounding older veterans 
in my home State of Oregon. I also held a series of roundtables in both 
Portland and White City to discuss how we can improve the current 
mental health system, be it through the VA, Department of Defense, or 
within the community mental health structure.

What we now refer to as post-traumatic stress disorder was once 
described as ''soldier's heart'' in the Civil War, ''shell shock'' in 
World War I, and ''combat fatigue'' in World War II. Whatever the name, 
it is a serious mental illness and deserves the same type of attention 
and care provided for a physical wound.

In recent reports, we have heard that 20 to 40 servicemen and women 
are evacuated each month from Iraq due to mental health problems. In 
addition to those who are identified, there are many more who will 
return home after their service to face re-adjustment challenges. Some 
will need appropriate mental heath care to help them adjust back to 
''normal'' life. While others will need medical assistance to heal more 
serious PTSD issues. Yet others will need help to mentally cope with 
their physical wounds.

The effectiveness of these approaches has been documented in a 
variety of


domains. Specifically, for mental health disorders like PTSD and 
depression, peer-support programs have shown that participation yields 
improvement in psychiatric symptoms and decreased hospitalizations, the 
development of larger social support networks, enhanced self-esteem and 
social functioning, as well as lower services costs. The Substance 
Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration, SAMHSA, and even the 
President's new Freedom Commission on Mental Health, have recognized 
peer-support approaches as an emerging practice that is helping people 
recover from traumatic events.

So many of our veterans from previous conflicts, such as World War II 
and the Korean and Vietnam Wars, needed similar programs once they 
returned home. Yet I fear that we didn't do enough to help them. With 
proper and early supports systems in place, we can work to prevent the 
more serious and chronic mental health issues that come from a lack of 
intervention.

As our country faces new waves of veterans with mental health 
illnesses, many of whose issues arise from combat stress, we must 
ensure that we learn from the lessons of the past. We must ensure that 
they are cared for, and we must not leave behind those who fought for 
Nation in previous generations.

I ask my colleagues to support this important amendment.