---
---

# HONORING KYLE THOMAS ALBERG
## `c07d89fa12950f2eb57abd891d3815ab`
`Ms. KIRKPATRICK of Arizona — 14 May 2009`

---


Ms. KIRKPATRICK of Arizona. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of 
H. Res. 377, which observes this Saturday's Armed Forces Day and 
celebrates the courageous service of our men and women in uniform.

Our fighting men and women in the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps 
and Coast Guard, whether on active duty, reserve, or serving in the 
National Guard, have been protecting our Nation bravely and honorably 
since before we were even a Nation. They continue to do so today. I 
have just recently returned from the combat zone in Afghanistan, where 
I had the chance to visit with our troops on the frontlines of the 
struggle against global terrorism. I was impressed and moved by their 
commitment as they continue to sacrifice so much to keep us safe and 
free.

This year, we celebrate Armed Forces Day on May 16. I encourage all 
Americans to take time out of this day to thank those who have risked 
and too often given their lives to preserve freedom and democracy. But 
one day is not nearly enough to recognize all that the members of our 
Armed Forces have done for this country. Every day should be an Armed 
Forces Day, a Memorial Day and a Veterans' Day. We have done great work 
in this Congress to better keep our promises to our service members and 
our Veterans, but we still have much more to do to make sure they 
receive the treatment and respect they have earned.

In the coming weeks, I will be working to increase access to quality 
physical and mental health care and to great educational opportunities 
for our Veterans. I encourage all of my colleagues to support this 
resolution, but I also urge them to join in my efforts to try to pay 
the eternal debt of gratitude we owe to our fighting men and women.
