---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `c083ac94ea1f3d413270571ccc791b48`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

I want to start by thanking Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member 
Hunter for the work they have done, not just on this bill but during 
the 12 years that I've been in Congress and even before then.

Their leadership on this committee I think should be an inspiration 
to all of us in the way they approach these very important issues. To 
begin with, they set a tone of bipartisanship. We worked together in an 
open process that I think gives us the high quality product


that we wind up with. And that's not to say that we don't disagree, 
occasionally along party lines, but we do so in a very open, very 
honest way, in a way that I think addresses the issues and the way that 
Congress should perform. I want to thank Chairman Skelton and Ranking 
Member Hunter for his time as ranking member and time as chairman as 
well for doing that.

I think this year's bill is a particularly good product and 
representative of that fine work. We have heard many different pieces 
of it already. I just want to highlight two in the general bill.

First of all, the $2 billion in additional money that we put in to 
deal with readiness, a major challenge right now for our Armed Forces, 
particularly the Army and the Marines. Our forces are really under a 
great deal of strain because of their deployments in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Maintaining readiness has been a major challenge and 
concern, and this bill puts that concern up front and funds it in a way 
that will help us begin to deal with the problem.

Also, equally as importantly, it prioritizes our troops by giving 
them a 3.9 percent pay raise, to recognize the hard work and sacrifice 
that they perform for us and support them in every way that we possibly 
can.

With that, I want to highlight some of what we've done on our 
subcommittee, the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats, 
and Capabilities. We have four main areas that we focus on.

The first of those is the Special Operations Command over which we 
have jurisdiction, and I want to pause at this moment in the general 
remarks and thank Representative Saxton who, though he is not the 
ranking member on this committee now, serves on the committee and was 
the first Chair. As Representative Hunter has pointed out, the special 
operations forces were a particular concern of Representative Saxton. 
He has a done a great deal in our efforts to expand that force, meet 
their needs and expand their capabilities, and more than that, he has 
been a great Member, not just of this subcommittee but of this 
committee for his career in Congress. He will be missed, and I very 
much appreciated working with him.

What we have done primarily for special operations forces in the bill 
this year is fund as many of their unfunded requirements as we possibly 
can. They have been at an incredibly rapid tempo in Iraq and 
Afghanistan and elsewhere. Continuing to fund their needs is the top 
priority of our subcommittee.

The other area that we focus on is irregular warfare, and there are a 
number of different pieces to this. But I think it's a critical part of 
our defense bill because it is emerging as one of the most continuous 
pieces of the fight, counterinsurgency efforts, counterterrorism 
efforts, things that were not prior to 9/11 part of our lexicon to the 
degree that they are now.

We take steps to make that a higher priority by raising it to the 
Assistant Secretary level at the DOD and also by helping to fund human 
terrain teams. Our subcommittee received excellent testimony about what 
these human terrain teams are doing to go in and understand the culture 
in Afghanistan, in Iraq. We actually employ anthropologists and others 
who are experts in culture so that our forces can know who they're 
dealing with when they go in. This is a critical element of what we're 
working on.

We also, thirdly, focus on harnessing technological innovation. We 
fund it, to begin with, $1.69 billion worth of R&D for science and 
technology, and we also focus on harnessing new technologies as quickly 
as possible by developing a clearinghouse for that. The procurement 
process in the DOD can be a lengthy process at times. We want to get 
these technologies out in the field as quickly as possible when they 
are most useful.

We're also asking the Department to focus on the recruitment of IT 
professionals, the people with the brains to help us with cyber 
security and elsewhere. As you might guess, the DOD does not pay as 
much as these people might be able to earn in the private sector. So we 
have to aggressively go out there and recruit folks to make sure that 
we have the top IT professionals within the DOD. Our bill focuses on 
that as well.

Lastly, we focus on improving DOD's homeland defense capabilities, a 
role of our subcommittee, by funding the Defense Threat Reduction 
Agency and the chemical/biological defense programs and by increasing 
their funds and making sure that they have what is necessary to protect 
us here in the homeland, within the DOD, working in cooperation with 
the Department of Homeland Security.

Again, I want to thank Representative Saxton for his work and also 
Representative Thornberry, who is the ranking member on this 
subcommittee. He has been great to work with, very smart, very 
talented, works in a bipartisan way. All of the issues that I have just 
listed have been made possible in large part because of his input. I 
appreciate working with him as well.

Again, I want to thank the chairman and Ranking Member Hunter for the 
way they run this committee. It makes me proud to be in Congress every 
year I have the opportunity to serve with them.

Thank you very much.