---
---

# None
## `c0871b3105aae92f1f3c9723c6ecfba2`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. I thank my colleague for that.

More on the spending issue, which is totally within the Members of 
this body's control, starting with the leadership of this House, 
dictates the pace at which that legislation should come to us. We 
should have already dealt with it a long time ago. But since we 
haven't, there are some pending consequences for not getting that done 
quickly.

By mid June, the military personnel account will be exhausted, and 
all military services will have to begin shifting money around, which, 
again, is just a back office accounting thing. But it delays purchasing 
the long lead items that are necessary to be bought out of this 
supplemental. This supplemental is intended not only to pay for the 
fight that is going on immediately, but it is also to pay for 
replacement of equipment and gear that is being destroyed and worn out 
as we fight this fight. That gear is special. You don't go down to your 
local Ford dealer and pick up a pickup truck. It takes long lead times 
to actually get that money set in place. So while we casually ignore 
it, we do so at the peril of our young men and women who fight this 
fight.

I want to recount to you a story. I've been to Iraq five times now to 
visit our troops and hug their necks and tell them ''thank you.'' 
Probably my most memorable trip was Christmas Day of 2006. I was there 
with Ike Skelton and a couple of other Members of Congress. And it was 
particularly meaningful to be away from my family and be with men and 
women who are away from their families, to share that experience. I was 
only away from my family for about 5 or 6 days, nothing like the 15-
month deployments that our men and women are enduring right now. But 
nevertheless, it was great to be there with them.

At Camp Victory, we went out to a perimeter fence where this 
particular Kentucky National Guard unit was guarding this fence for the 
base. And a Lieutenant Colonel Lutrell had come out, having just 
returned from a trip outside the wire. He had gone to a mosque. You 
could see the minarets just across our fence. And he had gone over 
there to talk to the cleric about some sort of a neighborhood watch 
program because of what was happening. There was an elementary school 
right near there that some Shia gunmen and thugs were sneaking into and 
using that platform to shoot at our men and women walking that wire. So 
this lieutenant colonel had gone to the imam, or cleric, there, because 
it was a Sunni neighborhood. He said, we could work out a deal. If you 
just give us the heads up, we will stop that. It helps you because they 
are just trying to force us to fire back at them into the school. And 
they were taking the chance of hurting their guys. So he was discussing 
with us about what was going on. And a young buck sergeant kind of 
eased up to kind of the back side of the deal. And I was standing 
looking at the name tags, and it was Lieutenant Colonel Lutrell and it 
was Sergeant Lutrell. And when I got a chance to say something, I said, 
you two men have the same last name. And the lieutenant colonel said, 
let me introduce you to


my son, Sergeant Lutrell. And my comment was, sir, your wife and his 
mother must be a saint to be able to endure having two very, I assume, 
very important men in her life in harm's way. But that is indicative of 
the kind of commitment to country, commitment to duty, and commitment 
to that flag that is played out hundreds and hundreds and thousands of 
times every single day over the last 6 or 7 years that we have been in 
the fight, good men and women stepping forward, putting education on 
hold, putting families on hold, putting family decisions on hold, while 
they went to do a job that not very many people are qualified to do, 
not very many people are willing to do.

So in the words of Ambassador Crocker today, our current course is 
hard, but it is working.

I look forward to some additional dialogue with my good colleague a 
little later in this hour.

