---
---

# ENERGY
## `c092e4d5682820c449609e02578ca4f7`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, let me continue with respect to the 
comments I was making concerning the issue of energy.

If you think about the 1970s and the 1980s, it was the economy that 
was at the root of what we were trying to do to develop solar energy 
and wind energy and looking at biofuels and the like. A lot has changed 
in those times. There is tremendous interest and a tremendous amount of 
energy being spent in each of our committees here in the Senate and the 
House of Representatives and in the White House and the Department of 
Energy on a clean energy future for America.

Some people will ask the question today: Well, is this another short-
lived agenda in the same way it was in the 1970s and the 1980s? When 
you look at the charts and you see what we were investing in clean 
energy technology back in the 1970s and 1980s, it was significantly 
higher than what we are investing in the 1980s and the 1990s and the 
early 2000s.

I submit that things have changed because the drivers today are not 
only the economic drivers of our time. Today when we look at the energy 
issues we face in our world, it is not just about the volatility of the 
energy markets we see around the world and here in the United States, 
there are two other drivers that are equally as important. The first of 
those drivers has to be our national security. When you think about the 
fact that today we are importing about 60 percent of our oil from 
foreign countries, in the next 10 to 15 years, if projections continue 
the way they are, and growth continues the way it is expected to 
continue, we will be importing 70 percent of our oil from foreign 
countries.

If that occurs, then we will continue to compromise the foreign 
policy, the national security of this Nation in a manner none of us 
should ever allow to happen. In fact, it would be a dereliction of duty 
for this Congress, for the Senate, and for this country to allow that 
to happen.

In the latest skirmish with Israel and Lebanon, one has to ask the 
question about where that money was coming from that was funding the 
militia group of Hezbollah in its firing of nearly 10,000 rockets into 
the northern city of Haifa in northern Israel. One has to ask that 
question, where was the money coming from that would fund the 10,000 
members of that militia group called Hezbollah in Lebanon and other 
places around the world?

Well, we do not need to look very far for the answer to that 
question. You and I know--you as the Presiding Officer are well aware 
of the security interests here in our country--very well that the money 
creating and funding the terrorist groups in places such as Lebanon is 
coming from oil. It is coming from oil we are paying $60 and $70 a 
barrel for today.

So the very national security of our country requires us, it demands 
of us, and we can do no less than to move forward with an agenda that 
grasps the imperative of energy independence in our world. That energy 
independence will come about with great opportunities as we look at a 
clean energy future for America. We will be able to derive jobs and 
create the kind of national economic security we need in the United 
States of America.

The final driver is the issue of global warming. The debate is about 
whether global warming is an issue that needs to be confronted in the 
United States of America, the debate that was being held several years 
ago. But I would imagine most people in the United States of America 
today are saying it is important for us to confront this issue.

In fact, as we are opening this day in the Senate, Senator Bingaman 
and Senator Domenici are holding a hearing with members of the European 
Union on the issue of global warming. Things have changed. Things have 
changed from the 1970s and the 1980s and the 1990s when America slept, 
and the only factor that was driving us to energy independence was the 
volatility of the markets.

Today the driver is national security. We cannot afford to compromise 
our national security by continuing to be overdependent, by continuing 
our current addiction to foreign oil. We cannot afford to ignore the 
issue of global warming that threatens the future of civilization. How 
we approach those issues and how we develop solutions that bring us to 
a positive movement forward is very important.



The issue of energy is one that can bring America together. To be 
sure, the last 6 years have seen a divided America on many issues, 
including Iraq. Energy can bring together Democrats and Republicans, 
progressives and conservatives, much as the Energy Futures Coalition 
has done in working with all of us. We crafted legislation that we call 
Set America Free. It is my hope that by the time the Senate finishes 
for the year or before we begin the August recess, we will have 
legislation that is bipartisan in nature, that will move us forward 
with a new energy future for America. That energy future will be one 
that is bound by a vision of a clean energy future that includes 
renewable energies, new technologies, and that goes after the low-
hanging fruit of energy efficiency and addresses the issue of global 
warming.

I ask unanimous consent that a portion of a speech I gave at an 
energy summit in Colorado be printed in the Record.