# PAUL WOLFOWITZ
## `c09424f68e0bfda14697fbf6892b57d3`
`Mr. COBLE â€” 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. COBLE. I thank the Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, in this town when a Democrat screws up, Democrats are 
reluctant to criticize. By the same token, when a Republican screws up, 
Republicans are reluctant to criticize. Today, Mr. Speaker, I intend to 
depart from this accepted practice and direct attention--if not 
criticism--to the World Bank matter.

Mr. Paul Wolfowitz was one of the architects of the war in Iraq. He 
was generally awarded low marks for his Iraqi performance. Then he was 
subsequently elevated to the presidency of the World Bank. Allegations 
of mismanagement of the World Bank under Mr. Wolfowitz's leadership 
have recently been prominently reported.

The Congress may or may not become involved, and the two House 
committees on which I sit--Transportation and Judiciary--likely will 
not become involved, nor am I accusing Mr. Wolfowitz of wrongdoing. 
That is for the appropriate World Bank panel to resolve.

Mr. Speaker, if it is determined in fact that mismanagement did occur 
on President Wolfowitz's watch, I suppose two options would follow: his 
resignation or his retention. If the latter, the appropriate World Bank 
panel may consider attaching a shorter, tighter leash to Mr. Wolfowitz 
because the present leash--if there is a leash at all--appears to be 
inadequate. But based upon my limited familiarity with facts 
surrounding the World Bank matter, I opt for the retention of Mr. 
Wolfowitz in lieu of his resignation.

His questionable and misguided leadership regarding the Iraqi War, 
plus the allegations of mismanagement at the World Bank under his watch 
notwithstanding, Paul Wolfowitz has made significant contributions 
during his years of public service and probably deserves another chance 
with the aforementioned leash permanently attached.

Meanwhile, Mr. Speaker, if Members of the Congress openly criticize 
members of our own party--especially members of our own party--when 
criticism is warranted, I believe our constituents will applaud such 
objectivity. And I furthermore believe, Mr. Speaker, that fewer 
accusations of screw-ups, mischief, mismanagement and scandal will be 
voiced and hopefully fewer acts of screw-ups, mischief, mismanagement 
and scandals will be practiced.

Mr. Speaker, on that optimistic note, I conclude and yield back the 
balance of my time.
