---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.J. RES. 20, FURTHER CONTINUING  APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `c0b2c948cc1f71e5adacd3f5815152cf`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.J. Res. 20, 
the Joint Funding Resolution that will complete action on the remainder 
of the fiscal year 2007 appropriations bills. This measure is not 
perfect, but it addresses the most urgent funding needs of federal 
programs while remaining within the tight budget constraints imposed by 
the previous Congress.

We are fixing this funding problem today because the former 
Republican leadership in the House and Senate failed to complete nine 
of the 11 appropriations bills for fiscal year 2007 before the 109th 
Congress adjourned in December 2006. The funding resolution we are 
voting on today will finally give federal programs a blueprint for 
their spending until September 30, 2007; however, it is not an ideal 
solution. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have rightly 
talked about challenges faced by certain programs that will see no 
increase over fiscal year 2006 levels. I cannot help but wonder where 
their concerns were when they controlled the fate of those programs 
last year?

The Democratic leadership faced many hard decisions in funding the 
remainder of the appropriations bills, and my colleagues rose to the 
occasion. This endeavor required a careful analysis of many important 
programs, as well as a great deal of compromise. To start, this measure 
does not contain any earmarks or a cost-of-living pay increase for 
Members of Congress. I wholeheartedly agree that any congressional pay 
increase should not be passed until the minimum wage increase passes 
Congress. We all must move forward together. That is also why I am 
pleased that this measure will increase Section 8 funding, which will 
help renew vouchers for individuals and families that cannot afford 
exorbitant housing prices on their own.

I am proud that my colleagues were able to increase funds for other 
high priority needs as well, such as veterans and military health care. 
We must make sure that service members wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan 
have the services they require, as well as anticipate the increasing 
number of returning veterans who have earned their promised benefits. 
This measure will also fund an increase in programs for the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, as well as local law enforcement programs, 
such as the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, which 
are critical to keeping our communities safe. At both the state and 
federal level, our work on intelligence and security must not be 
threatened by a lack of resources.

The funding resolution will also increase the maximum amount of a 
Pell grant so that more than 5.3 million students can help pay rising 
college expenses. I am especially pleased that this increase, the first 
in 4 years, will strengthen a program first introduced by an esteemed 
Rhode Islander, Senator Claiborne Pell. This measure also helps the 
youngest and most vulnerable group of students in our country by 
increasing Head Start funding to prevent a drop in enrollments.

Finally, this resolution also highlights areas where we need to move 
our country forward like health care and energy security. We are 
providing increased funding for community health centers, as well as 
scientific research; both the National Institutes of Health and the 
National Science Foundation will be funded over last year's level. The 
Department of Energy will also receive additional resources for 
research and development activities for renewable energy and energy 
efficiency programs.

After completion of H.J. Res 20, I look forward to working toward 
timely passage of a Fiscal Year 2008 budget that provides the necessary 
funding for some of our nation's most critical programs. The Democratic 
leadership has reinstated the pay-as-you-go budget rule, so that new 
spending has to be offset by a decrease in spending elsewhere in the 
budget. This promise was made last year, when we told the voters that 
we would bring this Congress in a new direction and demand fiscal 
responsibility. The measure we pass today, as well as the work we will 
do in the coming months, will show Americans that this Congress can be 
responsive to the public, enhance support for federal programs vital to 
our working families, and be careful stewards of taxpayer dollars.
