# HONORING COLONEL GARY B. CARNEY
## `c0b6e55c1cd964faa6914b97c9a1fdc3`
`Mr. INHOFE — 11 July 2007`

---

 Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, today I honor a retiring soldier 
from my home state. Colonel Gary B. Carney demonstrated exceptional 
meritorious service as Commander of McAlester Army Ammunition Plant, 
MCAAP, Oklahoma, the largest U.S. government-owned, government-operated 
explosive ammunition plant. The plant has a storage capacity of more 
than six million square feet, and stores more than 700,000 tons of 
ammunition valued at more than $65 billion. He skillfully balanced 
management of this significant portion of the total defense ammunition 
stockpile mission with the plant's other mission as the sole Department 
of Defense source for bomb production.



Colonel Carney effectively managed both manufacturing and depot 
operations stemming from Operating Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. 
During his tenure Colonel Carney oversaw an increase in revenue not 
seen since the Vietnam Era, totaling $228.2M. Also during his tenure 
the plant shipped 32,680 short tons of munitions, the largest tonnage 
shipped to date in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Expansion of the public/private partnership program occurred under 
his leadership as well. The commercial industry partnership business 
base at MCAAP increased four-fold under Colonel Carney's leadership. 
Additionally, MCAAP was selected as the integrator for the Excalibur 
guided projectile in partnership with Raytheon. The Raytheon/MCAAP team 
fielded the Excalibur, the newest and most accurate projectile, three 
months ahead of schedule, significantly enhancing our military's 
warfighting capability.

Under his leadership, MCAAP led the way in Lean Six Sigma, LSS, with 
actual/cost avoidance savings of $5.319M. LSS training intensified so 
that 28 employees received green belt training while 18 received black 
belt training; 29 completed LSS executive training and 22 more 
completed project sponsor/project selection training. All MCAAP 
employees received Lean Six Sigma awareness training.

In 2006 MCAAP's ammunition inventory accountability received an 
overall green rating in 10 out of 10 major functional areas during the 
Supply Depot Operations review. This rating and rapid turn-around is a 
marked improvement over previous years. This significant achievement 
was directly orchestrated by Colonel Carney through his initiative, 
leadership, tenacity and ability to motivate the work force.

Colonel Carney's business acumen, dedication to duty, vision and 
ability to inspire and lead people reflect great credit upon himself, 
the Joint Munitions Command and the U.S. Army. On behalf of the U.S. 
Senate and a grateful Nation, I would like to wish him congratulations 
on a job well done.
