---
---

# RECOGNIZING JAMES HARRIS, VETERAN OF THE YEAR FOR THE CITY OF DIXON,  CALIFORNIA
## `c0b61965dd28b30f07df14a3ebe9cd14`
`Mrs. TAUSCHER — 31 March 2008`

---


Mrs. TAUSCHER. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to James Harris, 
who received the Veteran of the Year award for the city of Dixon, 
California, on March 15, 2008.

James Harris, known as ''Jim'' by his friends, began his military 
career in 1961. Harris, now 72, served in the Air Force for 28 years, 
starting his illustrious career in the Air Force fire protection rescue 
unit. He retired from active duty in 1989, as a chief master sergeant, 
but to this day continues his service to those in uniform as an 
advocate for veterans affairs.

Harris is one of the original members for the Tuskegee Airmen, out of 
Travis Air Force Base. Additionally, he serves as the chairman of the 
committee that supports the new national cemetery in Dixon, CA.

In the wake of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, a large number of 
veterans are returning to a nation that is grateful for their service. 
However, it is men like Harris that ensure veterans past and present 
receive needed care and are never forgotten.

Jim Harris' selfless service and dedication to duty makes him a 
valuable asset to active duty personnel serving overseas and also 
veterans of past wars. Jim once said ''[n]o one really understands war 
until you've been in one. I feel it is my obligation to support them.'' 
He uses this as his motivation to continue serving past and present 
members of the military.

Veterans like Jim Harris were not asked to spend their time 
supporting the military. He does not do his job to win awards or to be 
recognized. He does it because of his past service in the military, for 
his family, and for all of the citizens in this great Nation. He feels 
obligated to continue to serve and we as a nation take his actions to 
heart--we will continue to honor those that serve in the military, now 
and forever.

I am also grateful of Mr. Harris' service as a member of my Veterans 
Advisory Board, where he provides great counsel on issues of import to 
all veterans.

Congratulations to Jim Harris on a job well done. We are grateful for 
your service in the past, present, and in the future. You are a true 
American hero.
