---
---

# None
## `c0cb56ac71a2a8fb4b918954da57728b`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 21 March 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you so much to my friend from 
Connecticut. It is a pleasure to join you in the 30-something Working 
Group once again.

And we need to remind our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, 
Mr. Speaker, that, on November 7, the American people sent us a very 
loud message. They sent us a loud message that they wanted us to move 
this country in a new direction. We began to do that. We heard them, 
and we began to do that in implementing our 100 hours agenda, our Six 
in '06 agenda, by adopting a bill that would establish an increase in 
the minimum wage, by having the student loan interest rate, by making 
sure that we hold pharmaceutical companies' feet to the fire and ensure 
that, for Medicare part D prescription drug beneficiaries, that we 
negotiate for lower drug prices. We wanted to make sure that we expand 
the research into uses of alternative energy.

So what do we do? We repealed the subsidies that were given away by 
the Republicans to the oil industry so that we can use that money more 
appropriately to fund alternative energy research. We passed 
legislation that would implement fully the 9/11 Commission 
recommendations.

And, on top of that, the other piece of the new direction pie was 
clearly the message sent by the American people, Mr. Murphy, that they 
want a new direction in terms of the war in Iraq. They are sick and 
tired of the rubber-stamp Republican Congress that we used to have 
giving the President a blank check, allowing the administration to go 
unchecked in terms of its utter lack of accountability, allowing 
contracts to be let with no questions asked; no hearings during the 
course of the years. We have now completed 4 years of this war, and up 
until the time when Democrats took over this Congress no questions, no 
hearings about the direction that the administration was taking this 
country and this war. A total shift from the war of necessity, which 
was the war in Afghanistan, which really was in direct response and had 
the widespread support of the American people, that really and truly 
was a response to the 9/11 attack; instead, a shift to a war of choice 
in the war in Iraq. And that was utterly unacceptable when Congress was 
misled and was given a set of facts on intelligence 4 years ago, when 
they misled Congress into voting for this war.

Now, we are still mired in chaos there. The administration has 
allowed Afghanistan to descend back into chaos when we had brought them 
democracy, and we had beaten the Taliban, and women had been given an 
opportunity to have freedom. Girls could go to school again. It was a 
new day in Afghanistan. And that has essentially been squandered. In 
favor of what? In favor of civil war in Iraq? In favor of us 
intervening and trying to resolve a civil war between the Sunnis and 
the Shiites that has gone on for hundreds if not 1,000 years?

When is this administration going to recognize that when we say the 
word, when we refer to the troops, Mr. Speaker, it is very easy to 
think, let's examine the term ''troops.'' I think it is very easy to 
look at that word and not see it in a personal way. I think that we 
throw the word ''troops'' around so much that we forget that troops, a 
troop is a person.



We are talking about individuals who are fighting for this country 
and who are doing their duty. And most of them that are over there are 
on their third tour of duty, Mr. Murphy.

I know I have told this the last few times that I have been here with 
my 30-something colleagues, but I went to Walter Reed. I cannot get it 
out of my mind, because I have two 7-year-old kids and a 3-year-old, 
and I can't imagine what this family has gone through.

But one of the soldiers that I visited when I went to Walter Reed 
before we voted on the escalation resolution and rejected the 
President's policy, when we voted to adopt that resolution, rejecting 
the President's policy on escalating this war, I went to Walter Reed 
before we voted on that. And one of the soldiers I met was with his 
wife and with his young child, who was 6 years old, this beautiful 6-
year-old little boy. And that 6-year-old little boy was so excited that 
his dad's tour was going to be done in August, and he said, my daddy is 
coming home forever in August.

His dad was sick in Walter Reed. He had contracted a mysterious 
illness. But he had been through three tours of duty. Each were a year. 
And his only son, his only child was 6 years old. And that meant that 
he missed half of his son's life already.

So when we refer, you know, without thinking to the troops, the 
troops, if it is a brigade or any one of a number of military terms 
that we use for individual troops or a collection of troops, we are 
talking about people.

And if we do not make sure that this supplemental passes, the choice 
is a plan to get our troops home and provide them with the equipment 
that they need and an exit strategy and benchmarks to ensure that the 
we and the administration hold the Iraqi government accountable to meet 
those benchmarks. The alternative is a continued blank check and a 
directionless war that has no end in sight.

It is a pretty stark contrast. We can eventually see our way clear 
and had there been a light at the end of the tunnel and adopt the 
supplemental and, in addition to that, provide the support that our 
troops need, the equipment that they need, the plan to get them home, 
and support for our veterans, which is incredibly important; $1.7 
billion in this bill for health care for our veterans.

We have this glaring, horrific problem at Walter Reed that went 
ignored by this administration. And thank God we had those, the heads 
that have rolled. But would they have rolled if Democrats weren't in 
charge of Congress? No. We know they wouldn't have, because, yet again 
another scandal would have been swept under the rug. The administration 
would have tried to ride it out, keep their fingers crossed, squeeze 
their eyes shut tight and hoped that they could endure until the next 
media news cycle went through.

No more, not now that we have balanced government, that we have the 
ability of this Congress to assert our oversight role and to reassert 
what the founding fathers envisioned, which was our system of checks 
and balances.

And I think we are all about third party validators here in the 30-
Something Working Group. And I noted what this Washington Post article 
from Wednesday of last week, it was appropriately titled ''White House 
Finds Trouble Harder to Shrug Off.'' And it goes on to talk about how, 
in


the past, questions about its, meaning the White House's, actions might 
have died down without the internal administration e-mails being made 
public, referring to the U.S. attorney scandal.

There are many issues that would have just been swept aside by this 
administration in the past, allowed to occur and ignored by the then 
Republican leadership here. But not now that we have a democratic 
Congress that is going to make sure that we hold this administration's 
feet to the fire, and make sure that they are responsible for civil 
liberties for all Americans, and fiscal responsibility.

I would be happy to yield to the gentleman.