---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `c0d645a9a94588acf86cf8df5018ee6a`
`Mr. DENT — 29 July 2009`

---


Mr. DENT. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the House Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information 
regarding projects that are listed in H.R. 3326, Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, FY2010:

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010, Account: DPA, Title: Navy Production Capacity Improvement 
Project, Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Lehigh Heavy Forge 
Corporation, Address of Requesting Entity: 275 Emery Street, Bethlehem, 
PA 18015, Description of Request: The Navy Production Capacity 
Improvement Project will expand, modernize, and maintain the production 
capabilities of Lehigh Heavy Forge, which is needed to support 
production of Navy Ship shafts and Navy Nuclear Reactor components. 
Lehigh Heavy Forge is the only domestic facility with the capability to 
produce the large, complex forgings required for the nuclear power 
plants and propulsion shafts of the U.S. Navy Submarine and Aircraft 
Carrier Programs. Specifically, this project will provide for the 
engineering and installation of an automated Ultrasonic test system to 
increase production capability and improve the inspection process; the 
installation of a new computer programming and drafting system to 
replace an old and unreliable system; the engineering and rebuilding of 
three heating furnaces in the Forge and Treatment Department; and the 
engineering and upgrading of facilities for shipping and inspection 
operations.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010, Account: O&M, Army, Title: Army Force Generation 
Synchronization Tool, Legal Name of Requesting Entity: ProModel 
Corporation, Address of Requesting Entity: 7540 Windsor Drive, Suite 
300, Allentown, PA 18195, Description of Request: In 2006 ProModel was 
tasked by FORSCOM to provide a technology solution based on its COTS 
software platform. The solution enables the Army to capture the Army 
Force Generation Model (ARFORGEN) process in software, providing 
decision makers the ability to rapidly create Courses of Action and 
predict the impact of their decisions on key metrics such as Dwell and 
Boots on Ground. The ability through automation to run ''what if's'' to 
assess risk on readiness is recognized as a key priority for the Army 
and Joint Forces. The project will accelerate the deployment and 
enhance the current capabilities of the ProModel ARFORGEN 
Synchronization Tool (AST). The AST has provided a unique capability to 
quickly visualize the impact of today's sourcing decisions on the 
Army's capability to sustain operations in the future and to 
synchronize associated resources and training.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010, Account: RDT&E, Army, Title: Ballistic Armor Research, Legal 
Name of Requesting Entity: Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., Address of 
Requesting Entity: 7201 Hamilton Boulevard, Allentown, PA 18195, 
Description of Request: This project partners industry with a strategic 
university to conduct research under the leadership of the U.S. Army 
Research Lab (ARL) in Aberdeen, MD to develop polymers and materials 
that will provide the basis for the next generation of armor to protect 
personnel, equipment, and critical infrastructure. While current 
approaches in vehicle armor technology continue to use all-metal 
construction or in some cases ceramic-steel and polymer-ceramic-steel 
designs, polymer-based armor, based on multilayer composite technology 
comprising ceramics, metals, and polymers, will allow for better 
protection, at a lighter weight and lower cost. This research will 
provide a fundamental understanding of how materials undergo physical 
and chemical changes during the blast/impact which will lead to 
polymer-based armor solutions for programs like MCWL Lightweight Body 
Armor. The body armor advances can be replicated in next-generation 
vehicle armor systems for new programs such as Joint Light Tactical 
Vehicles


and the MRAP-ATV armored vehicle program needed for use in Afghanistan.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010, Account: RDT&E, Army, Title: Chronic Tinnitus Treatment 
Program, Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Neuromonics, Inc., Address of 
Requesting Entity: 2810 Emrick Boulevard, Bethlehem, PA 18020, 
Description of Request: The Army reports that tinnitus is among the top 
medical complaints of soldiers returning from OIF/OEF and often occurs 
with Traumatic Brain Injury/mild Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI/mTBI). 
Until recently, no effective treatment program has existed to help 
individuals suffering with the effects of tinnitus. The Chronic 
Tinnitus Treatment Program is designed to interact, interrupt, and 
desensitize tinnitus disturbance for long-term benefit, especially in 
those suffering with chronic and severe tinnitus. The treatment program 
shows promise by reducing symptoms quickly, in particular, providing 
relief from the disturbing effects of the condition; treating the 
neurological causes associated with tinnitus; providing long term 
relief and improvements in quality of life; and being convenient and 
noninvasive. This funding will expand a clinical trial to study the 
effectiveness of the program with specific subgroups of service-members 
(PTSD and/or TBI) and veterans with chronic and severe tinnitus.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010, Account: RDT&E, Army, Title: Networked Reliability and Safety 
Early Evaluation System, Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Bosch Rexroth 
Corporation, Address of Requesting Entity: 2315 City Line Road, 
Bethlehem, PA 18017, Description of Request: Changing requirements for 
combat and tactical vehicles are accelerating the urgent need to 
quickly assess and identify new technology for reliability, durability, 
and safety shortcomings in combat environments. The Networked 
Reliability and Safety Early Evaluation System (NRSEES) will include a 
Dynamic High Frequency Component Reliability System and a High Payload 
Reliability System (HPRS). Specifically, funding for this project is to 
design, build, test, train and install the HPRS. This system will be a 
large simulator capable of accurately assessing vehicle system 
structural reliability for platforms up to 35 tons, which will include 
current MRAPs, MATV, JLTV, FCS and all legacy Tactical Wheeled 
Vehicles, Trailers and Light Armored Vehicles.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010, Account: RDT&E, Army, Title: Silent Watch, IB NPS 1160 Lithium-
Ion Advanced Battery, Legal Name of Requesting Entity: International 
Battery, Inc., Address of Requesting Entity: 6845 Snowdrift Road, 
Allentown, PA 18106, Description of Request: The project will 
demonstrate the improved performance capability of the Lithium-Ion 
battery, which will provide increased power and energy density, and 
life cycle sustainability over the previous (IB model IB-1100) battery 
type. Through this program, it is anticipated that the operational 
support cost drivers will be reduced. This battery will consist of a 
Silent Watch, 28V (seven series connected 160Ah Lithium Iron Phosphate 
cells), third generation IB BMS, and a self-contained Thermal 
Management System. Importantly, the battery provides no hazardous 
material such as lead or acid, which eliminates major disposal charges.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010, Account: RDT&E, Navy, Title: Landing Craft Composite Lift Fan, 
Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Curtiss Wright Engineered Pump 
Division (EPD), Address of Requesting Entity: 222 Cameron Drive, 
Phillipsburg, NJ 08865, Description of Request: The presence of salt 
water, extreme temperatures, and the abrasive effects of airborne sand 
reduce the effective life of LCAC Amphibious Assault Vessels' metal 
fans. The U.S. Navy spends approximately $1.4 million a year repairing 
and replacing the lift fan blades on the LCAC Landing Craft. This 
project will complete the development of composite material lift fans 
for Navy landing craft, enabling the replacement of metallic blades 
which require high maintenance and frequent replacement, resulting in 
higher life cycle costs and decreased operational reliability. Funding 
will support the installation and testing of a composite lift fan 
prototype on a Navy landing craft and any final design modifications 
that are required. This project will provide a domestic manufacturer of 
a composite lift fan that will reduce maintenance and life cycle costs, 
and increase operational reliability for the current and next 
generation landing craft fleet.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010, Account: RDT&E, Air Force, Title: Hybrid Nanoparticle-based 
Coolant Technology Development and Manufacturing, Legal Name of 
Requesting Entity: Dynalene, Inc., Address of Requesting Entity: 5250 
West Coplay Road, Whitehall, PA 18052, Description of Request: DOD is 
actively supporting thermal management activities to ensure that 
Directed Energy Weapons (DEWs) function properly when they are 
introduced into the military. The cooling system in these applications 
requires not only a highly efficient heat transfer device, but also a 
coolant that has significantly better thermo-physical properties than 
existing fluids. There is no coolant fluid currently available that 
possesses all of the desirable properties required for high heat flux 
applications such as DEWs. Dynalene has developed an advanced coolant 
composition that addresses the shortcomings of existing coolants by 
combining a base composition (which can be a mixture of water and an 
antifreeze compound) with specially designed hybrid nanoparticles. This 
project will complete the optimization of the coolant and demonstrate 
its applicability in a real DEW system. Funding will be used to 
fabricate a reactor and separator, develop a quality control system for 
the hybrid nanoparticles and the coolant, establish scale-up criteria 
to go to the next level of manufacturing, and generate samples for 
testing in DEW systems as well as various civilian applications.

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
FY2010, Account: RDT&E, Defense-Wide, Title: High Speed Optical 
Interconnects for Next Generation Supercomputing, Legal Name of 
Requesting Entity: Lightwire, Inc., Address of Requesting Entity: 7540 
Windsor Drive, Suite 412, Allentown, PA 18195, Description of Request: 
The Army and other services have two overarching future needs in the 
area of computing devices--they need to be faster and more capable, but 
at the same time smaller (and use less energy). These needs run the 
entire spectrum from the largest defense computing assets 
(supercomputers) to the very smallest (PDAs that can be ''worn'' by a 
soldier). The requirements for high performance computer simulations by 
classified Defense projects are massive. Supercomputers can model 
ballistics, armor performance under attack, radar signatures of new 
stealth technologies, and nuclear weapons performance, saving manpower 
and funding that would be required to truly test such phenomena. In 
order to target the next generation of supercomputers, Lightwire will 
engage in a joint research effort with DARPA to explore uses of its 
optical printed circuit board technology supporting both C4ISR antenna 
remoting and supercomputing needs. Funding will be used to accelerate 
the development of high speed optical interconnects needed to enable 
the next generation of DOD supercomputing needs.
