# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `c0da60aa50fa16dec59828cde714d91b`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today to honor Army CPT 
Scott Shimp of Bayard, NE.

Captain Shimp's love for the military was obvious to his mother, who 
said ''even when he was little, he wanted to be a soldier, running 
around in his camouflage.'' He graduated from Bayard High School in 
1998 as the salutatorian of his class. He was also quite active in many 
activities: football, wrestling, 21st Century Singers, choir, and the 
National Honor Society. In addition, Captain Shimp received his Eagle 
Scout Award, the highest honor bestowed by the Boy Scouts of America, 
in 1998. Upon his graduation from high school, he pursued his dream of 
becoming a pilot by enrolling in the U.S. Military Academy at West 
Point, graduating in 2002.

Following his commission as a second lieutenant, Captain Shimp served 
two tours of duty in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom I and III. 
After graduating from the Aviation Captain's Career Course at Fort 
Rucker, AL, he reported to Company C, 4th Battalion, 101st Aviation 
Regiment, 159th Combat Aviation Brigade, 101st Airborne Division, at 
Fort Campbell, KY, to serve as company commander.

A highly decorated soldier, Captain Shimp's leadership qualities were 
unmistakable. He was a rare example in the 101st Airborne Division, as 
evidenced by taking over a command soon after graduating from the 
Aviation Captain's Career Course, thereby demonstrating the respect and 
trust afforded him by his superiors. On September 11, 2007, Captain 
Shimp, along with two crew members, passed away when the Black Hawk 
helicopter he was piloting during a training exercise crashed due to 
fog near the town of Skyline, AL. He was 28 years old.



Captain Scott Shimp is survived by his parents Curtis and Teri Shimp 
of Bayard, NE; his older brother Chad and his younger sister Misty. I 
offer my most sincere condolences to the family and friends of Captain 
Shimp. He made the ultimate and most courageous sacrifice for our 
Nation. I join all Americans in grieving the loss of this remarkable 
young man and know that Captain Shimp's passion for serving, his 
leadership, and his selflessness will remain a source of inspiration 
for us all.
