---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `c0e17f35197485f6986cb7deb7091949`
`Mr. AKAKA — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I thank the chairman and the ranking member 
for their leadership in bringing about changes that will make a huge 
difference in the military and in our country as well. Later today, I 
intend to offer, along with my good friend and


ranking member of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Senator Craig, an 
amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2008 that would complement the outstanding work already done by the 
Armed Services Committee with the dignified treatment of wounded 
warriors amendment.

Our amendment seeks to enhance the care servicemembers receive once 
they transition to veteran status. It would improve the capability of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs to care for veterans with traumatic 
brain injuries. It would also improve access to VA mental health and 
dental care, address the issue of homelessness among newly discharged 
servicemembers, and recognize the importance of the National Guard and 
Reserve in the VA's outreach programs.

This amendment is a direct outcome of the close collaboration between 
the Veterans' Affairs Committee and the Armed Services Committee 
following our April 12 joint hearing. I was delighted to work with 
Chairman Levin of the Armed Services Committee, Ranking Member Craig of 
the Veterans' Affairs Committee, and others on this important 
amendment. I also thank Senators Rockefeller, Murray, Obama, Brown, and 
Mikulski for their cosponsorship of the amendment.

Our amendment includes provisions recently approved by the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs at our markup on June 27 and represents the VA 
Committee's work to address the seamless-transition issues in 
collaboration with the Armed Services Committee's work on S. 1606, the 
Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act. Our actions here today, 
Mr. President, represent true collaboration between the two 
committees--a model for how the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
Defense should be working together.

At the heart of our amendment are improvements to TBI care. Ranking 
Member Craig and I worked on these TBI provisions, and they have 
garnered the support of many organizations, including the American 
Academy of Neurology, the Brain Injury Association of America, the 
Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities, and the 
Disabled American Veterans.

The VA was caught flatfooted by the large number of devastating TBIs 
resulting from the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Our amendment 
would require individual rehabilitation plans for veterans with TBI and 
authorize the use of non-VA facilities for the best TBI care available. 
It would require the VA to implement and research an education program 
for severe TBI through coordination with other Federal entities 
conducting similar research. There is also a pilot program for 
assisted-living services for veterans with TBI. This is comprehensive 
TBI legislation.

The amendment also addresses the amount of time a newly discharged 
servicemember has to take advantage of the unfettered access to VA care 
for which they are eligible. Under current law, any Active-Duty 
servicemember who is discharged or separated from active duty following 
deployment to a theater of combat operations, including members of the 
Guard and Reserve, is eligible for VA health care for a 2-year period 
without reference to any other criteria. Our amendment would extend 
this period to 5 years.

There are two primary reasons for allowing a greater period of 
eligibility: protection from budget cuts and ensuring access to care 
for health concerns--such as mental health or readjustment problems--
that may not be readily apparent when a servicemember leaves active 
duty. In recent years, funding for VA health care has too often been 
delayed by the legislative and appropriations process, leading to 
delayed or denied care for veterans with lower priorities for VA care. 
Veterans who have served in a combat theater deserve to have their 
health care guaranteed for at least the 5 years immediately following 
their discharge.

With regard specifically to mental health and readjustment issues, 2 
years is often insufficient time for symptoms related to PTSD and other 
mental illnesses to manifest themselves. In many cases, it takes years 
for these invisible wounds to present themselves, and many 
servicemembers do not immediately seek care. Experts predict that up to 
30 percent of OIF and OEF servicemembers will need some type of 
readjustment service. Five years would provide a more appropriate 
window in which to address these risks. With over 1.4 million Americans 
having served in OIF and OEF and with over 600,000 of those members 
already eligible for VA health care because they have left active duty 
or, in the case of Reserve Forces, have been demobilized, extending 
this eligibility will help smooth their transition to civilian life.

To further address the mental health needs of separating 
servicemembers, we have included a provision in our amendment that 
would require the VA to provide a preliminary mental health examination 
within 30 days of a veteran's request for it.

I thank Senator Obama for his work on this provision.

We have learned from past wars that the longer mental health needs go 
unmet, the more difficult and extended the recovery.

Additionally, as servicemembers separate from active duty and become 
veterans, the threat of homelessness always exists as they reintegrate 
into society.

We have all heard the sad and shocking statistic that one out of 
every three homeless persons on the street at any given time is a 
veteran.

To further assist transitioning service members, our amendment 
requires the VA to conduct a demonstration project to identify those 
who are at risk of becoming homeless upon discharge or release from 
active duty. The demonstration project would provide referral, 
counseling, and support services for these individuals.

It has been proven through previous VA efforts that this process can 
reduce the incidence of homelessness and other problems among veterans.

This amendment also addresses the issue of the VA's outreach to 
members of the Guard and Reserves.

In the ongoing global operations, the reserve components have been 
used on an unprecedented scale. When these citizen soldiers redeploy 
and demobilize it is essential that the VA include them in outreach 
efforts.

To recognize the importance of the Guard and Reserve, and to 
acknowledge their contribution to the Nation's efforts, this amendment 
would redefine the VA's definition of outreach to include specific 
reference to the Guard and Reserve.

Finally, the amendment also addresses VA dental care for separating 
servicemembers by extending the window to apply for VA dental benefits 
following discharge from active duty. This amendment extends from 90 
days to 180 days the application period for such benefits.

Recently returned servicemembers face significant readjustment, and 
dental concerns may not be a top priority. In addition, members of the 
National Guard and Reserve are often given 90 days of leave following 
discharge from active duty, and, upon return to their units, the 
opportunity to apply for dental benefits has passed.

The extension to 180 days would improve access to care and facilitate 
smoother transition from military to civilian life.

Our amendment touches on many of the issues that are affecting 
transitioning servicemembers and newest veterans. It truly complements 
the outstanding work that was done by the Armed Services Committee to 
take care of wounded warriors. I urge all of my colleagues to support 
this amendment when it comes before the Senate. Thank you, Mr. 
President.