---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `c0e20e32b4f8f7a45530082658f99df2`
`Mr. OBEY — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Chairman, as we all know, we have been mired in a god-awful war 
in Iraq for almost 5 years. What bothers me most about it, except for 
the deaths that occur on a daily basis, what bothers me most about it 
is that there is virtually no sense of shared sacrifice in this country 
in dealing with that war.

The only people who are being asked to sacrifice are military 
families, and they are being asked to sacrifice again and again and 
again. They are being sent back to Iraq and to Afghanistan again, 
again, and again. Not much sacrifice is being asked of anybody else.

We hear politicians prattle about the need to stand behind the 
troops. You betcha, we certainly should.



But we need to stand behind the troops not just when the bands are 
playing. We need to stand by those troops when they come home, and they 
are injured, and they are sick, or they may have lost their job, or 
they may have lost their spouse; and that's what this bill tries to do.

I think we need to put in context how we got here. It has been a 
struggle to see to it that we have adequate funding in veterans medical 
care programs.

Two years ago, on this side of the aisle, we were given information 
from people within the Veterans Administration that their veterans 
health care budget was going to fall $2 billion short. We tried to put 
that money in the budget. We were then in the minority. We were blocked 
by the majority then, except for one fellow. The Republican chairman of 
the Veterans' Committee sided with us, he agreed with us that we needed 
that $2 billion in additional money.

What happened to him? Not only did the then-majority party leadership 
fire him as chairman, they took him completely off the committee 
because he told the truth. We finally got that money, but we had to get 
a double hernia to finally pry that money out of the administration.

Then we had, as you know, the budget process collapse last year, and 
no domestic appropriation bills were passed by the then-majority party. 
In fact, this very bill, the Military Construction bill, was held up in 
the Senate by two Members of the Republican Party who put a hold on it 
because they didn't like certain earmarks that were on the bill.

So the bill never passed. When we took the majority, the very first 
thing we did was to make veterans health care a number one priority, 
and we added over $4 billion to that account, made it the number one 
priority. Then we added additional funding of over $3 billion in the 
Iraqi supplemental, and now we have added this money today to make this 
the largest increase for veterans health care in the history of the 
country.

When we did that, the White House announced it was going to veto the 
bill. Now, finally, they have had a St. Paul conversion on the road to 
Damascus. I welcome the White House on board the bandwagon.

But as Golda Meir said to Anwar Sadat when he finally came to 
Jerusalem a long time ago: ''What took you so long?'' I am glad the 
President has finally changed his view.

But the President continues to say, ''Well, now, I may not veto the 
bill, but you have got to have offsets. You have to find compensating 
savings.''

Why do we single veterans out for that requirement? There were no 
offsets that the President required when he decided that this year we 
were going to spend $57 billion to provide tax cuts to people who make 
over $1 million a year and pay for it all with borrowed money. No 
offsets around then. Do you see them? I don't see any offsets in sight 
for that.

So what do we get? Finally, we get grudging acceptance from the White 
House that after they stuck us in this miserable war, and after they 
sit there with no clue about how to get out, at least they are now 
grudgingly going to recognize that we need the funds in this bill to 
deal with veterans medical care.

This bill ought to pass unanimously. It is far past the time that we 
put our votes where our mouths are in terms of long-term funding for 
veterans health care. I am proud of the fact that I provided the 
allocation to the subcommittee so that they could do that.

We are taking funding from $49.7 billion last year to $64 billion 
this year. Now, green eyeshade people may say, ''Oh, that's too much.'' 
You know what? In my view, nothing is too much for people who have 
risked everything on behalf of this country. Finally, over the last 2 
years, we have been able to get funding up to begin to meet our 
obligations in this area.

I want to congratulate the gentleman from Texas for helping to lead 
the way, and I want to express my appreciation to people on both sides 
of the aisle who stood up for veterans when it was tough, including Mr. 
Smith of New Jersey, the former Republican chairman of the Veterans' 
Affairs Committee, who paid a high price for his dedication to the 
needs of veterans, who paid a high price for putting truth ahead of the 
partisan wishes of the Bush administration.