---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `c0f4dbd73b03ddfd8ccf253adb87cf9f`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as a proud member of the 
Progressive and the Out of Iraq Caucuses, I rise to announce that I 
will proudly cast my vote in favor of H.R. 2206, the ''U.S. Troop 
Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability 
Act.'' By vetoing the bipartisan Iraq Accountability Act last week, the 
President vetoed the will of the American people. The President vetoed 
a responsible funding bill for the troops that would have provided more 
funding for our troops and military readiness than even the President 
requested.

By vetoing the Iraq Accountability Act, the President rejected a bill 
that reflects the will of the American people to wind down this war. By 
vetoing the Iraq Accountability Act, the President turned a deaf ear to 
the loud message sent by the American people last November.

The President demands a blank check to escalate the war in Iraq 
against the will of the Congress and the American people. The 
Constitution does not require it, he certainly has not earned it, and I 
am not prepared to give it to him. That is why I will proudly vote for 
H.R. 2206.

The legislation crafted by the chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee in consultation with the leadership and the members of the 
Democratic Caucus offers us a real chance to end the misguided 
invasion, war, and occupation of Iraq. It puts us on the glide path to 
the day when our troops come home in honor and triumph and where we can 
''care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and 
orphan.'' This legislation helps to repair the damage to America's 
international reputation and prestige. It brings long overdue 
oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and 
reconstruction contracting and procurement. Finally, it places the 
responsibility for bringing peace and security where it clearly belongs 
and that is squarely on the shoulders of the Iraqi government.

Mr. Speaker, in threatening to veto this legislation, the President 
claims it will ''undermine our troops and threaten the safety of the 
American people here at home.'' Coming from an administration that has 
been wrong on every important question relating to the decision to 
launch the Iraq war as well the conduct of it, this claim is laughable. 
It is nearly as ridiculous as the President's often stated claim of 
''progress'' in Iraq. The facts, of course, are otherwise. The U.S. 
death toll in Iraq reached 104 for April--making it the deadliest month 
of the year and one of the deadliest of the entire war. It is therefore 
little wonder that nearly 70 percent of Americans disapprove of the way 
the President is handling the war. But more important, the President's 
claim that the Iraq Accountability Act undermines our troops and 
threatens the safety of the American people here at home is simply not 
true.

Republican Senator Chuck Hagel recently returned from Iraq and paints 
a bleak picture: ''This thing is coming undone quickly, and [Prime 
Minister] Maliki's government is weaker by the day. The police are 
corrupt top to bottom. The oil problem is a huge problem. They still 
can't get anything through the parliament--no hydrocarbon law, no de-
Baathification law, no provincial elections.''

Mr. Speaker, many of the Nation's most highly respected generals and 
several leading Republicans have endorsed the House Democratic 
majority's approach; all of them oppose the President's plan to 
escalate the war in Iraq. Take, for example, MG John Batiste, U.S. 
Army, (Ret.):




 This important legislation sets a new direction for Iraq. 


 It acknowledges that America went to war without mobilizing 


 the nation, that our strategy in Iraq has been tragically 


 flawed since the invasion in March 2003, that our Army and 


 Marine Corps are at the breaking point with little to show 


 for it, and that our military alone will never establish 


 representative government in Iraq. The administration got it 


 terribly wrong and I applaud our Congress for stepping up to 


 their constitutional responsibilities.


MG Paul Eaton, USA, Ret. supports this legislation because it ''gives 
General Petraeus great leverage for moving the Iraqi government down 
the more disciplined path laid out by the Iraq Study Group.'' According 
to General Eaton, the real audience for the timeline language is Prime 
Minister al-Maliki and the elected government of Iraq:




 The argument that this bill aides the enemy is simply not 


 mature--nobody on the earth underestimates the United States' 


 capacity for unpredictability. It may further create some 


 sense of urgency in the rest of our government, beginning 


 with the State Department.


LTG William E. Odom, U.S. Army (Ret.), President Reagan's Director of 
the National Security Agency, supports the bill because it ''gives the 
president a chance to pull back from a disastrous course, re-orient 
U.S. strategy to achieve regional stability, and win help from many 
other countries--the only way peace will eventually be achieved.''

Mr. Speaker, to date, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than 
America's involvement in World War II, the greatest conflict in all of 
human history. But there is a difference. The Second World War ended in 
complete and total victory for the United States and its allies. But 
then again, in that conflict America was led by FDR, a great Commander-
in-Chief, who had a plan to win the war and secure the peace, listened 
to his generals, and sent troops in sufficient numbers and sufficiently 
trained and equipped to do the job.

As a result of the colossal miscalculation in deciding to invade 
Iraq, the loss of public trust resulting from the misrepresentation of 
the reasons for launching that invasion, and the breathtaking 
incompetence in mismanaging the occupation of Iraq, the Armed Forces 
and the people of the United States have suffered incalculable damage.

The war in Iraq has claimed the lives of 3,381 brave service men and 
women, 64 in the first 30 days of this month. More than 24,912 
Americans have been wounded, many suffering the most horrific injuries. 
American taxpayers have paid nearly $400 billion to sustain this 
misadventure.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 2206 because it holds President Bush and 
the Iraqi government accountable--by fencing $52.8 billion of the $95.5 
billion provided to the Defense Department until released by subsequent 
legislation. This bill requires the President to confront the realities 
of the Iraq war and take account of the facts on the ground.

First, the bill requires the President to submit a report to Congress 
by July 13 regarding the success of the Iraqi Government in meeting 
security and political benchmarks. The President must report progress 
by the Iraqi Government in meeting key security benchmarks, articulated 
by Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki himself in January, including 
eliminating militia control of local security, I disarming the 
militias, and giving Iraqi Security Forces the authority to pursue all 
extremists, including Shiite militias.

The legislation also requires the President to report on whether key 
political benchmarks,


announced by President Bush himself in January have actually been 
accomplished by the Iraqi Government, relating to such issues as 
enacting a bill to equitably share oil revenue among all Iraqis, 
reforming current laws governing the de-Baathircation process, 
providing for provincial elections, and amending the constitution.

Second, within 7 legislative days after receiving the report in July, 
both the House and Senate would vote on whether to release the 
remaining defense funds. Thus, the bill guarantees two votes by 
Congress in July.

The first guaranteed vote is a vote on an amendment to the measure 
releasing the remaining defense funding, which would provide that this 
funding could only be used for planning and executing the redeployment 
of U.S. troops from Iraq within 180 days of the bill's enactment, with 
only limited exceptions to this redeployment for troops for training 
and equipping Iraqi troops, targeted counterterrorism operations, and 
force protection.

The second guaranteed vote is a vote on the underlying measure 
releasing the remaining defense funds. The bill contains expedited 
procedures to guarantee that the votes take place in both the House and 
Senate by the end of July.

Mr. Speaker, it is time to hold the Bush administration and the Iraqi 
Government accountable. This bill's timetable and benchmarks finally 
hold the Iraqis accountable. As retired MG Paul Eaton has stated, 
''This bill gives General Petraeus great leverage for moving the Iraqi 
government down the more disciplined path laid out by the Iraq Study 
Group. The real audience for the timeline language is Prime Minister 
al-Maliki and the elected government of Iraq.

Even Defense Secretary Robert Gates has noted that the timetable is 
helpful--and sends the message that ''the clock is ticking.'' Gates 
said ''The strong feelings expressed in the Congress about the 
timetable probably have had a positive impact . . . in terms of 
communicating to the Iraqis that this is not an open-ended 
commitment.''

Mr. Speaker, in passing H.R. 2206, this House will be doing the 
business and expressing the will of the American people. In the latest 
CBS News/New York Times poll, 64 percent of Americans favor a timetable 
that provides for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq in 2008. In 
the same poll, 57 percent of Americans believe that Congress, not the 
President, should have the last say when it comes to setting troop 
levels in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, in passing H.R. 2206, Congress is fulfilling its 
constitutional responsibilities and exercising the first check on the 
President's power in 6 years. As Iraq Study Group Co-Chairman Lee 
Hamilton has pointed out, ''The founders of our nation never envisioned 
an unfettered president making unilateral decisions about American 
lives and military power. They did indeed make the president the 
commander in chief, but they gave to Congress the responsibility for 
declaring war, for making rules governing our land and naval forces, 
for overseeing policy, and of course the ability to fund war or to 
cease funding it.''

Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to join me in voting for H.R. 2206. 
This is the best way to ensure accountability to our soldiers who have 
been sent into battle without proper training or equipment or a clear 
mission. It is the best way to keep faith with our veterans who are not 
getting the best medical care when they come home. Passing this 
legislation is essential to restoring our military that is being 
stretched to the limits by the Bush policy. Last, it is absolutely 
necessary to regain the confidence of the American people who demand a 
new direction in Iraq.