---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `c0f6ee0ba925bbbf024e1360482aa25e`
`Mr. MITCHELL — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, in January, Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-
Maliki publicly committed to meeting a set of benchmarks, including 
quelling sectarian violence, disarming sectarian militias and 
developing a plan to share oil revenues equitably among all Iraqis.

In May, Congress, in a bipartisan way, made clear that the Iraqi 
government should be held accountable for meeting those benchmarks and 
required the President to report on the Iraqi Government's progress in 
meeting those goals.

That report, which was released today, demonstrates the President's 
surge is failing and that the Iraqi Government is failing to meet the 
benchmarks it agreed to meet 7 months ago.

The Iraqi Government has not moved toward national reconciliation. 
This morning, we learned that Director of Central Intelligence General 
Michael Hayden, an accomplished four-star general, told the bipartisan 
Iraq Study Group 8 months ago that Iraq's leaders are ''unable to 
govern.''

Now, the inability of the Iraqi Government to govern seems 
irreversible. If there is no functioning government in Iraq, how do we 
expect to fix the problems in that country militarily?

We continue to see the serious consequences that result from that 
inability to govern. Sectarian violence has not been quelled; it 
continues to escalate. Sectarian militias have not been disarmed; they 
continue to wreak havoc. There has been no progress on a plan to share 
oil revenues equitably among all Iraqis.

The situation is rapidly deteriorating and American troops are caught 
in the crossfire.

Continued U.S. involvement in Iraq must be contingent on the Iraqi 
Government keeping its word. Benchmarks without accountability are not 
benchmarks at all. They are blank checks. And I refuse to allow the 
Iraqi Government, or any government, to have a blank check on American 
lives.

The time has come to redeploy American troops from Iraq and reduce 
the U.S. military role in Iraq. We must do so in a responsible way that 
will help us better meet our strategic objectives and renew our fight 
against global terrorism.

I am convinced that this course, combined with stepping up our 
diplomatic efforts, provide the best opportunity to achieve our 
strategic objectives, reduce sectarian violence and force Iraq's 
leaders to get serious about Iraqi reconciliation and stabilization 
efforts.

As their failure to meet the benchmarks clearly illustrates, Iraq's 
leaders are unwilling and incapable of moving toward national 
reconciliation. If the United States allows the Iraqi government to 
have an open-ended timetable to meet these benchmarks, and demands no 
accountability, our troops may literally be in harm's way forever. We 
cannot continue to allow the safety of our troops to be placed in the 
hands of Iraqi leaders who have failed to keep their word or are 
incapable of meeting their obligations.

Make no mistake: the deteriorating situation in Iraq is not a result 
of military failure. Our nation's armed forces crushed Saddam Hussein's 
regime in one of the most complete and impressive military victories in 
the history of our country.

The disaster in Iraq is a result of the Bush Administration's failure 
to plan and failure to listen. It is a result of misplaced trust in the 
Malaki government. It is a result of mismanagement and incompetence.

Even worse, the administration's failed policy in Iraq has limited 
the success of our mission in Afghanistan, and hindered our ability to 
destroy al Qaeda's international operations. As a result, U.S. 
intelligence analysts say al Qaeda is the strongest it has ever been 
since the September 11, 2001, attacks. We must renew our commitment to 
leading the fight against global terrorism and destroying al Qaeda.

Our Nation is at a critical crossroad in Iraq, and Congress has a 
difficult choice to make. But one thing is clear: staying the course is 
not an option. We can ill afford to continue down the same course of 
failure that has undermined our mission in Iraq, and undermined our 
ability to protect our Nation from terrorist threats.