---
---

# GULF COAST HURRICANE HOUSING RECOVERY ACT OF 2007
## `c10798239e7700a1f940cdfda9dcacda`
`Mr. NEUGEBAUER — 20 March 2007`

---


Mr. NEUGEBAUER. Mr. Chairman, I thank Ranking Member Biggert of the 
subcommittee for yielding.

And I also want to rise and thank Chairwoman Waters, the subcommittee 
chairman of Housing, for having the hearings down in New Orleans and 
over in Mississippi. I see a number of Members in the Chamber that went 
on that trip. That was a very positive trip. But I think what we 
learned while we were down there is we share some common feelings about 
the recovery. And I think that was the frustration that we shared while 
we were down there where we saw very little progress in one area and a 
lot of progress in the other. In fact, I have said to my colleagues 
back home that this is a tale of two recoveries: the recovery or lack 
of recovery in New Orleans in Louisiana and the recovery that is going 
on in Mississippi.

I want to associate myself with some of the words the ranking member 
just made on the floor awhile ago about the model that needs to take 
place in New Orleans when we are talking about going back and building 
new housing. Some of the proposals that some of the people put forward 
while we were in New Orleans would not meet criteria


for a new federally subsidized housing project today. We don't do that 
anymore. We don't create these huge pockets where we have impoverished 
people where we see high crime, and we now go to mixed projects that 
provide communities that give diversity to those.



New Orleans faced a great devastation from the fact that they had a 
catastrophic hurricane. But now they have a great opportunity to 
rebuild, really starting in many places with a clean piece of paper. 
Can this be done without some disruption? No, it cannot, because the 
disruption has already taken place. And there are people who do want to 
return to New Orleans and to Louisiana, and there are people who may 
not return.

But what we do owe the American people, and I appreciate the fact 
that Ranking Member Biggert laid out a very clear outline of what this 
Congress has done to step up to meet the needs of the people that were 
affected by this hurricane, and the list is long, and the money is 
great, what we owe the American people is to make sure that we take 
that money now that we have put in place for Katrina and make sure it 
gets spent appropriately and that it benefits the people for which it 
is intended.

One of the things that concerns me about this bill is that every time 
we stand up and get into a discussion about Katrina, we have to 
authorize more money. In fact, this bill authorizes $1.3 billion in new 
money. But money is really not the issue in Louisiana and New Orleans.

Now, I will admit and agree with the chairman, Chairman Frank, that 
there are some things in this bill that clean up some administrative 
issues that probably need to take place. But let me tell you, the 
reason there is not recovery in New Orleans today is not because the 
United States Congress hasn't passed this bill. What they need in New 
Orleans and in Louisiana is probably leadership more than they need 
more money. But this bill does address some of that.

There are some amendments that were offered in our committee, in our 
markup, and I want to say this to Chairman Frank, that we had a very 
good markup. He ran that meeting well and allowed a lot of amendments, 
and we had good debate and conversations about that, and I appreciate 
that. But there are amendments that are in this bill that make it more 
fiscally responsible and make it less micromanaging.

One of the things I get concerned about is we have got a Congress 
right now that wants to run the war in Iraq, and now we have a Congress 
that wants to run the recovery in New Orleans. What we do know is that 
we have to set out some parameters for that.

What the people need in New Orleans is to get started. Hopefully they 
will begin to do that. We saw some signs they were moving in that 
direction. But what I would say to my colleagues is that what we have 
to do is at some point in time say, you know, this is all of the money 
and resources that we are going to give to this cause until we see some 
tangible results. Unfortunately, when you look at what is going on in 
Louisiana right now, there are not tangible results. It would not be 
something that you would want to put more money into until you see some 
better stewardship of the dollars that have already been authorized. In 
fact, many of the dollars that we have already authorized have not been 
spent.

So what I want our colleagues to do today as they listen to this 
debate is make sure that we accomplish the goal of what was the 
original intent of H.R. 1227, and that was to fix some slight glitches 
in the process, but not to become more fiscally irresponsible.

In closing, I would just say there is an opportunity in New Orleans. 
But I will tell you, the American people that are watching this debate 
today, and I hear it when I go back home, they are saying, Congressman, 
how much more money are we going to have to put into this process until 
we begin to see some results?

As I was riding in with a cabdriver going to the hearing that the 
chairwoman had in New Orleans, I asked the cabdriver, what is going on 
in New Orleans? He said, nothing. I said, what is the problem? He said, 
we have no plan, we have no leadership.