# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `c11e07268332e03c2ba040d9f60d88c3`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado â€” 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, when the House considered this 
measure earlier this week, I voted for it even though I was far from 
enthusiastic about doing so.

Now that it is before us again--because the Senate changed it--I am 
even less enthusiastic about it, but I have reluctantly concluded that 
bad as it is, it needs to be passed. And so I will vote for it again.

Earlier, I said that one of its worst shortcomings, ironically, was 
that it was too long--rolling into one massive measure provisions from 
no fewer than 11 regular appropriations bills that the House passed 
earlier this year.

And now it is even longer, because the Senate has added an additional 
$39 billion, all for military activities in Iraq.

There is no mystery about why that happened. It happened for two 
reasons.

The first reason is that President Bush has insisted that he will not 
sign the bill unless these funds were added--just as he has insisted he 
will veto it if it provided more funding than he has requested for 
domestic purposes.

The second reason is that our Republican colleagues, both here and in 
the Senate, have made clear they will support any such veto.

And the result of the president's stubborn insistence and our 
Republican colleagues stubborn loyalty is that of the nearly $190 
billion the president requested for Iraq and Afghanistan, this bill 
includes $39 billion for Iraq, to be available without conditions or 
significant restrictions.

This essentially unconditional funding approach is very different 
from the war funding bill I supported and the House passed last month, 
which would have provided targeted funding toward an ''immediate and 
orderly'' redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq.

I agree with those who say there are clear signs of progress on the 
security front in Iraq. But when he announced the ''surge'' of 
additional troops to Iraq, President Bush promised us more than 
progress on the security front. We sent more troops to Iraq to provide 
''breathing space'' for the Iraqi government to move toward political 
reconciliation, and that hasn't even begun to happen.

I think that in the long term, there is no sustainable role for large 
numbers of U.S. troops to remain in Iraq--whether refereeing a civil 
war or waiting for the Iraqi government to decide to act within the 
''breathing space'' our brave troops have provided and our taxpayers 
are paying for at $9 billion per month.

So I regret that this bill sends the wrong message by including no 
Congressional direction on how the funds for Iraq should be spent.

At the same time, we all understand that this bill includes no 
''strings'' on Iraq funding because the Senate simply doesn't have the 
votes to pass such a bill and that Republican support for a veto would 
prevent it from becoming law if it should be passed.

What we need is consensus here at home on a path forward in Iraq.

I believe consensus can be found around the recommendations of the 
Iraq Study Group, which I introduced as legislation earlier this year, 
including supporting a course of escalating economic development, 
empowerment of local government, the provision of basic services, a 
''surge'' in regional and international diplomatic efforts, and 
lightening the American footprint in Iraq.

If legislation along those lines had been agreed to, we would not 
find ourselves making the difficult choice presented by this bill now 
before us.

Only Democrats and Republicans working together can find the best 
path out of Iraq. I will continue to work with colleagues on both sides 
of the aisle on further steps we can take to change our broader Iraq 
policy.

And today, I will vote for this omnibus bill because despite its 
shortcomings, I will not vote to deny funding for the body armor and 
other supplies our troops require and because in terms of funding for 
domestic programs, it still is a better bill than would have resulted 
if we had simply rubber-stamped the president's budget requests--and it 
includes provisions that will directly benefit Colorado and the nation.