---
---

# IN HONOR AND REMEMBRANCE OF MAJOR ROCCO M. BARNES
## `c1260dcb8a83d2f2f0249b629a09977d`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 29 September 2009`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, Major Barnes grew up in North Olmsted 
and graduated from North Olmsted High School. Shortly thereafter, he 
enlisted in the U.S. Army, and became part of the Army's Special Forces 
HALO detachment. He was trained as a Special Forces Medical Sergeant, 
Parachutist and Infantry Officer. Following his service in the Army, he 
joined the Army National Guard. Major Barnes' service in the military 
totaled thirty-one years; during which he served two tours in Iraq and 
two tours in Afghanistan.

Along the way, Major Barnes earned a Bachelor's degree in English 
Literature. In addition to his military service, his love for books and 
writing led him to a civilian career in the entertainment industry in 
California, where he became a playwright and screenplay writer. 
Additionally, he utilized his military experience within the private 
security sector; Major Barnes was the Director of West Coast Operations 
for Vance International.

Throughout his service in the military, Major Barnes consistently 
exemplified bravery, compassion and he often and readily offered his


assistance to anyone in need, without regard to his own sacrifice. 
Major Barnes served as a father figure, guide and mentor to numerous 
young military recruits, and was like an uncle to the children of close 
friends. For many years, Major Barnes sponsored a child from Indonesia, 
sending money and letters of encouragement on a regular basis. 
Recently, Major Barnes was part of a successful effort to save the life 
a severely injured child in Afghanistan.

His compassion, unwavering integrity and professional excellence are 
documented in the numerous military commendations he received, 
including the California Medal of Merit, Bronze Star, Meritorious 
Service Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Humanitarian Service Award, 
Armed Forces Reserve Medal and the Global War on Terrorism Service 
Award.

Major Barnes is survived by his mother, Grace Barnes-Filo; his 
father, Harold Barnes; his sisters, Therese Rose Barnes, Jennifer 
Barnes, and Julie Keating; And, his nephew Timothy and niece, McKenzie. 
I also extend my condolences to his extended family members and many 
close friends.

Madam Speaker, and colleagues, please join me in honor and 
remembrance of Major Rocco Martin Barnes, whose heroic actions, 
kindness, generous spirit and love for those closest to him will be 
remembered always. Major Barnes was a courageous United States soldier, 
and an exceptional human being. His life, gone too soon, was framed by 
his great love for family, friends and country. The significant 
sacrifice, service, courage that defined the life of Major Barnes will 
be honored and remembered by the entire Cleveland community, and our 
Country.
