# None
## `c1316c6217647fdcf67c8a93a8282763`
`Mr. ABERCROMBIE — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. ABERCROMBIE. I rise in support of the Spratt amendment. A 
reasoned and objective approach is needed for analyzing and assessing 
the serious issues surrounding the potential for nuclear weapons 
proliferation in Iran. The current bill language couples military 
readiness and contingency response planning with report elements that 
are inherently intelligence-related and dependent on the full spectrum 
of intelligence sources and methods.

The amendment appropriately shifts the burden of assessment regarding 
Iran's nuclear weapons capacity and/or intentions from the Secretary of 
Defense to the Director of National Intelligence. Why reinvent the 
wheel? Precedent and institutional knowledge specific to the issue 
already exist. The appropriate vehicle for perpetuating objective 
analysis of the situation is an updated NIE, with further updates 
regularly to follow, not an independent and parallel effort on the part 
of the DOD.

Renewing demand for products of the proven method of consolidating 
analysis through a centralized NIE process also discourages the 
temptation for some to ''forum shop,'' I assure you, among national 
security agencies for favorable or dissenting views, depending on the 
circumstance. We are all well aware of the Douglas Feith-led, Dick 
Cheney-originated cabal that was a major instigator of the war in Iraq.

A disassociated DOD effort would undermine a widely considered and 
properly vetted approach to nuclear proliferation and other high 
priority national security issues.

The amendment substantially reflects many of the points of inquiry 
from the report elements in the bill's existing language, but it 
centers the focus on an updated NIE analysis on the near and mid-term 
implications rather than on the speculative far-term projections, and 
does not rush to associate U.S. military response as a presupposition.

On that basis, Madam Chairman, I think this amendment deserves our 
favorable attention, and I thank you for the time allotted to me.