---
---

# ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
## `c136f1f65b5164c075b58d6ab6a27ed9`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. Thank you, Mr. Hodes. It is an honor to see you here 
tonight, as well as Mr. Klein from Florida.

We are at our 6-month point. We have one of our freshman colleagues 
in the Chair tonight. Mr. Hall from New York is serving as the Speaker 
pro tempore this evening. We are in the Chamber here tonight; we are 
talking about the first 6 months. We are talking about what is 
certainly the most important issue facing the country, as anyone would 
agree, which is the war in Iraq. We are talking about accountability. 
As the gentleman pointed out, we have a President that seems to be 
struggling with accountability right now.


If you look at what has happened in Iraq, we talk about the surge. We 
are going to have this report in September on whether the surge has 
worked. We all pray that we get good news in September, that General 
Petraeus is going


to come in and give us an accurate assessment and, hopefully, that 
assessment will be that things are turning around.

But it does not appear at this point that that is the case. In fact, 
as you well know, Mr. Hodes, the last 3 months where the surge has been 
fully in effect and we have been over there, have been the bloodiest 3 
months in the 4/1/2/ years we have been in Iraq. The last 3 months have 
been the worst 3 months. That does not bode well for the effectiveness 
of the surge.

As you said, we are over 3,500 now that have been killed and 25,000 
injured, wounded and that is just a tragic situation.

I was able to tour Walter Reed soon after that incident came to light 
with the Washington Post, and perhaps you gentlemen did as well. What 
strikes you when you meet these men and women, they are the bravest and 
the brightest and the best this country has to offer. To think that we 
have a situation where we were giving them substandard care in a 
military hospital, and in the Department of Defense, we chronically 
underfund our VA health care systems all across the country. So you 
have the Defense health care system that Walter Reed was a part of, and 
that was a disgraceful situation; then on the other hand, for the past 
several years, we have chronic underfunding of the VA health care 
system.

So when we talk about this administration's record with regard to 
accountability and what happens after these brave men and women come 
home, we have the issue of multiple deployments where the Guard and 
Reserve families have to struggle with multiple deployments and 
extended deployments going from 1 year to 18 months. Some of these 
veterans are small business owners or work in small firms where they 
have to go to their employer and say, I have to go over to Iraq, I have 
to serve this country. Of course, the employer says, that is wonderful, 
you have my support. Then they have to go back a second time, maybe a 
third.

Again, for the ones that own their own business and are the person 
that is running the business, how are they going to keep that business 
afloat? It affects the family. It affects the children. This has so 
many repercussions. Every segment of our society is impacted by it. But 
we have a President that has been given the views of the American 
people--we are going to talk about that tonight--but they have been 
disregarded.

Sixty-nine percent of the American people think we are heading down 
the wrong road in Iraq and that we need to change course. Instead, we 
get more of the same. We have an administration that was given a 
blueprint for success by the Iraq Study Group 6 months ago now, 7 
months ago. Instead of following it, or at least looking at it, it was 
promptly discarded.

We have an administration that has ignored the advice of his generals 
on the ground. Whenever they tell him something he doesn't want to 
hear, they have resigned or they are fired. So I lack the confidence 
that this administration is going to be able to view the Iraq situation 
as anything more than ''stay the current course.'' We all know that we 
need a different course.

We were talking about accountability. I did just want to tell one 
story that is related to the way this administration views our men and 
women and the families that are serving this country. I had a 
constituent in town today. She is an 84-year-old Gold Star mother. Her 
son was killed in 1969 in Vietnam. She has not been to Washington, D.C. 
She has not seen the Wall with her son's name on it, the Vietnam War 
Memorial. She called our office 2 weeks ago and explained her 
situation. She said, ''I am bringing my two daughters, who are 
obviously grown now. They are the sisters of the serviceman that was 
killed in 1969. They are going to come down together as a family for 
the first time.'' Her goal, her life-long dream, was to tour the White 
House. So we called the White House. As you certainly know, there is a 
6-month waiting list. But there is an exception in special 
circumstances. One of those circumstances, we were told, you were 
probably told, were for Gold Star families.



They can get in and take that tour of the White House.

So we were told, sure, they are welcome. We sent the information 
over, and then we promptly got a phone call saying, well, no, no, that 
exception only works for Iraq and Afghanistan Gold Star families, not 
for Vietnam era families.

So we had to call back this 84-year-old woman who wanted to see the 
Vietnam War Memorial and her son's name on the wall for the first time, 
and wanted to tour the White House, it was her lifelong dream, and we 
had to tell her well, I am sorry, we are not going to be able to do 
that, because the White House does not allow that.

Then it came to my attention that we as Members of Congress in very 
rare circumstances are allowed to take groups down and put them in the 
line if we appear with them. So I called her and I said, you know, I am 
going to just do this myself.

So today we took her down and we put her in the line and she got her 
tour of the White House.

So I sent a letter to President Bush and I said, there is two issues 
here. One is this policy is ridiculous. How can you justify putting one 
group of families who have suffered the greatest loss imaginable in the 
service of our country ahead of another group of families? How can you 
put one generation of military Gold Star families ahead of another?

The second issue is, what is the policy? Can you explain it? What is 
the justification for it? And please change it. That was the situation. 
I was fortunate as a Member of Congress, I was able to get Ms. Boyer 
in. But, unfortunately, you wonder how many people around the country 
have made a similar effort and were unable to get in on this tour.

So, I really thought this was a disgraceful situation, and I did want 
to bring it to the attention of my freshmen colleagues, because this is 
something that just happened today. And I think it is indicative of the 
treatment that our military families are getting from this 
administration.

I talked about the fact that we have had 6 consecutive years prior to 
this one of chronic underfunding of our VA healthcare system. You see 
the result at Walter Reed, what happens when you don't provide enough 
funding for these institutions. Unfortunately, we as a nation were 
doing that over the last several years.

But this Congress took a step in the right direction to resolve that 
by providing the largest increase in the history, 77-year history of 
the VA health care system, and in the 6 months we have been here, we 
have voted for $13 billion in increased funding for the VA healthcare 
system.

We have also voted to increase screenings and treatment for traumatic 
brain injury, which is now the signature issue for the Iraq war 
veterans. Many of the people who would have perished in previous wars, 
because of increased technology and military equipment, we have a lot 
of amputees and we have a lot of head injuries. So the issues we face 
are different from issues we faced in previous wars with regard to 
treating the men and women that come home.

So we are going to screen them and we are going to treat them for 
traumatic brain injury and we are going to make that part of what we 
are doing in the VA healthcare system.

So this Congress has taken a step in the direction of honoring our 
Nation's veterans, and I am proud at our 6-month point of our first 
term in Congress that we can go home over the July 4th recess and talk 
about the fact that no Congress in the history of the Congress has ever 
done more for our Nation's veterans than we have, in just 6 months. So 
I am proud to talk about that.