# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `c137975e4a6570f7c022cb3e5a7dc410`
`Mr. COBURN — 26 May 2010`

---


Mr. COBURN. Madam President, I am taken aback by the chairman's 
remarks. We now sit at $13 trillion worth of debt, we have 10 percent 
unemployment, we are 4 years away from being Greece, and we are going 
to do what we have always done. The reason we can freeze Federal pay is 
because there is absolutely no inflation in this country. So instead of 
giving the raise, we don't. Every private sector business out there 
today is getting extremely more with less--to the tune that the 
productivity in the private sector was up 6.8 percent. If we had that 
same productivity in the Federal Government, we could lose 150,000 
employees and do the same thing. But we would not accept what is 
necessary--the necessary pain--to protect this country for its future.

The chairman mentioned unobligated balances, but he spoke about 
obligated balances. We are not talking about money that has been 
obligated; we are talking about hundreds of billions of dollars that is 
not obligated. Last year, at the end of the fiscal year, there was in 
excess of $700 billion from the previous year that was unobligated, 
sitting there.

So it is about managing our money properly. That is like saying if 
you have $30,000 in a savings account and you want to buy a new home, 
you are going to leave it there and go borrow $60,000. No, you are 
going to use part of that to buy your new home. So we have the same 
approach that is disgusting America: We can't, we can't. What we can do 
is borrow against the future of our children. That is what this bill 
does.

So the first time we come out here with two good amendments that will 
offer a choice for the Senators of this body to actually make a 
downpayment on change in this country, to make a true downpayment on 
change, we get the same thing I have heard for 5/1/2/ years: We can't.

Let me tell you what we can do. We can cap Federal employees. We have 
added 180,000 Federal employees in the last 17 months in this country. 
By the way, their average salary is $30,000 more a year than in the 
private sector. Their benefits are $40,000 a year, which is twice what 
it is in the private sector. So capping Federal employees is a great 
way to start slowing down the growth and cost of government.

If the bureaucracy isn't responding, then it requires management 
changes rather than adding more people. The worst managers in the world 
always give the excuse: I need to have more people, rather than: I need 
to be creative about getting more out of the people I have today.

We need to change the standard under which we operate our government. 
We need to expect more, and we need to pay less. The American people 
cannot afford the government we have. We are unaffordable.

The chairman brings to the floor a bill that is more of the same. You 
can be critical of what we have offered. We don't have the advantages 
of the staff the chairman has. But this is an honest attempt to pay so 
we don't charge it to our children.

Notice he didn't say anything about the savings of $4.6 billion for 
not printing this paper every day that nobody reads but reads on the 
Internet. Yet we are going to spend $460 million a year printing 
government reports from this body and the White House that nobody looks 
at in hard copy. I would assume you would take by unanimous consent 
that we would cut $4.6 billion from the American Government. We didn't 
hear about that. That is not one of the bad ideas. We weren't attacked 
on that.

This Federal Government has to change if our kids are going to have a 
future. It isn't going to change until we have the courage and the 
fortitude to start making the hard choices. What the Appropriations 
Committee has said is that we are not going to make hard choices, we 
are just going to borrow the money. How many of you think the war is an 
emergency? How long have we known, or how long have we been in 
Afghanistan? It is not an emergency. Here on the chart is the 
definition of our own rules for emergencies. Nothing in this bill meets 
that except FEMA--nothing. Yet we have the gall to bring to the floor a 
bill called an ''emergency'' because we don't want to have to pay for 
it. We don't want to make tough votes or make choices between competing 
priorities.

We are just kicking the can down the road, and we are kicking the 
soup that was in the can all over our kids. We lack courage. It is not 
popular, it is not fun to make the hard choices, but we don't have any 
leadership that will bring the hard choices. That is why you have this 
amendment. Had we brought this amendment and we made the choices, we 
probably would not have gotten much kickback. But we decided we are 
just going to charge it to our children.

Guess what is coming after this. Another $200 billion that isn't paid 
for. Since the chairman of this committee voted for pay-go, we have 
borrowed $173 billion outside of pay-go because we voted and said it 
didn't count, and we had this wonderful celebration that we are not 
ever going to borrow money again. We are going to live within pay-go. 
But every time it has been there, we kicked it down the road. Pay-go 
means nothing. It means the American people will pay and we will go 
spend it. That is what it means. That is what this bill does. American 
people--you kids, you grandkids--you are going to pay, and we are going 
to go spend it. How are you going to pay? Your standard of living will 
decline.

This body--Republicans and Democrats alike--is complicit in ruining 
the


future for our children. It is time we change. We have a committee that 
makes fun of attempts to try to change things; actually, it stretches 
the truth. This isn't going to cost one TSA person their job or one FBI 
person. This government is so fat and so overladen with excess that any 
smart manager can come in and streamline it and we can save 10 percent 
and the American people know that.

We have 12 million people on SSI and SSDI. Do you know what we have 
discovered? We have discovered that 6 out of 100,000 of them are 
operating commercial vehicles right now, but they are ''disabled.''

We have all sorts of fraud going on. We will not address that. We 
will not fix that. There is waste--at least $350 billion the American 
public--maybe not this body--would agree we can cut out of the 
discretionary in fraud and Medicare tomorrow, and nobody would feel a 
thing. Yet we have a stoic Appropriations Committee that comes to the 
Senate floor and tells us we can't pay for it. It is not that we wanted 
to pay for it, we didn't want to pay for it because the staff on the 
Appropriations Committee knows where the dollars are, but they weren't 
told to pay for it. They are not going to be told to pay for the 
extenders bill that is coming either. What will have happened since 
February 12 when we passed pay-go? I will tell you what will have 
happened: $500 billion--$/1/2/ trillion--more in spending that is 
unpaid for and charged to our kids, and that will happen before July 1. 
So in 4/1/2/ months, after we say we are going to put in the 
discipline, that we are not going to spend money we don't have, we are 
going to spend another $/1/2/ trillion.

No wonder the country is sick of Washington. Our behavior causes them 
to wonder about the future of our country. I don't apologize for 
offering this amendment. I hope you vote against it because the voters, 
this time around, are going to be looking at how you vote and whether 
you are voting to make the hard choices, willing to eliminate things--
maybe some things that are good but not as good as what we need to be 
doing--and make this a priority.

We don't have that courage. My challenge to my colleagues in the 
Senate is, let's buck up. It is OK to take heat from the special 
interests, the well-connected and well-endowed. Let's do what is the 
best and right thing for the country, not the easy thing for us, 
because this bill, the way it is written now, is easy for us.

With that, I yield the floor.