---
---

# None
## `c13d3dea363332cb3b7a0d1ea80a2310`
`Mr. REID — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, for all Members, we will have a vote at 
6:30 tonight on the second Feingold piece of legislation. Following 
that, if cloture is invoked, of course, there is 30 hours on the motion 
to proceed. I have had a number of conversations today with the 
distinguished Republican leader. He and I will discuss later this 
evening and tomorrow how we are going to work through the rest of this 
week. My goal, as has been indicated a number of times over the last 24 
hours on the Senate floor, is to make sure that sometime this week we 
are on the housing stimulus package, and we will do that. We will see 
if we can do it with an agreement rather than running out all the time.

As I indicated earlier today, I think the debate on this Iraq 
legislation has been good. My friends on the minority side think the 
war is going great. We have some concerns on this side.

Just in passing, I had a meeting in my office about an hour ago. We 
have a wonderful facility being built in Las Vegas, a performing arts 
center. It will be wonderful. It will be like the Kennedy Center. They 
have raised all but $50 million of this $475 million project. I told 
those who were assembled: This is about the same amount of money being 
spent in 1 day in Iraq, the $420 million, the money they have raised.

It has been a good debate, a good discussion. I think it is good that 
the body spend some time on this very important issue. One thing that 
has been quite good, and I commend Senators on both sides, is it has 
been a very civil debate. We have a significant disagreement on the 
situation in Iraq, but we have had a good debate. The American people 
should feel good about the discussion. It has been very tempered and 
dictated by actual feelings on both sides.