# THE PROGRESSIVE MESSAGE FROM THE PROGRESSIVE CAUCUS
## `c14af3f03335f3cb342cc003d1fa44fc`
`Mr. POLIS — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. POLIS. Thank you. I thank my colleague from Minnesota. Just 
today, hours ago in this very Chamber, we had a debate--not enough 
debate--but a debate about American military activities overseas in 
Afghanistan and Iraq, and specifically around Congress's role in 
funding these efforts.

I was proud to cast my vote against the supplemental. I think we need 
to fundamentally rethink the militaristic aspects of our foreign 
expeditions in Iraq and Afghanistan.

To me, what is a Progressive? It's somebody that questions the status 
quo. Who always asks, What can be better? Somebody who constantly seeks 
something closer for humanity to the state of perfection.

We know that it is patriotic to question authority rather than 
blindly follow authority. And that's an important distinction both in 
this Chamber as well as with one's friends when we're having 
discussions.

The most patriotic thing that we can do as Americans is ask ourselves 
these tough questions: Why are we occupying Iraq? Why are we occupying 
Afghanistan? Why are we putting our men and women in harm's way and 
causing many more casualties on the other side as well? What is our 
role ongoing in these countries?

Of course, Progressives want to protect America. Of course, we're 
concerned with the terrorist threat; of course, we want policies that 
protect our citizens and reduce the risk of terrorism here and abroad. 
But we question the conventional wisdom. Why does attacking a country 
that had nothing to do with 9/11 reduce the risk of terrorism here?

Mr. Ellison, do you think that that had any effect on terrorism here?