---
---

# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `c14c9c4aedb2a89938f8d3bd2b5ccd9c`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, first of all, I commend the words of my 
colleague, Senator Brown, on the issue of health care but in particular 
the importance of having a public option in our health care plan and 
the legislation the Senate will take up.















 Afghanistan Policy


I rise today to speak in particular with regard to the debate we are 
having--just beginning to have, by the way, and need to have a lot more 
debate about--the U.S. role in Afghanistan, with a special focus in 
terms of my own remarks today on building the Afghanistan National 
Army. At the same time, I would also like to recognize the dedication 
of the Pennsylvania National Guard as well.

But first with regard to Afghanistan, the challenge we face in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan is a grave challenge indeed. Those who might 
disagree on the way forward or what to do next can agree on that, that 
it is a grave challenge. In order to get it right, and we must get it 
right, we need to debate these issues thoroughly.

I have been fortunate enough in the 3 years since I have been in the 
Senate to be a member of the Foreign Relations Committee. As a member 
of that committee, most recently--the last couple of months, really--I 
have had several opportunities, as others have on the committee, to 
examine the military, political, diplomatic, and regional implications 
of our presence in Afghanistan. Chairman John Kerry has taken a very 
comprehensive approach, and I applaud his efforts.

I also support the administration's deliberate consideration in 
making this strategic determination. The President is taking the time 
that I believe is necessary to make the right decision.

General McChrystal as well has contributed much to this debate, not 
only with his report but, more importantly than what he put on paper, 
the kind of leadership he has provided to our troops on the battlefield 
and the way he has assessed the threats to our security and to our 
troops and to the Afghan people and the way he has articulated those 
threats.

Now he has made a recommendation to the President. We hear a lot 
about what General McChrystal's report said, at least parts of it. We 
also hear a lot about General McChrystal's recommendation on troops. 
What we have heard very little about and need to hear more about is the 
nonmilitary part. What will happen on the nonmilitary aspects of this 
counterinsurgency strategy? That is vitally important and at the same 
level of importance as what we do militarily. So we have to get it 
right militarily and in terms of the other strategy.

But one thing we have not heard a lot about is that General 
McChrystal has actually, in words I am quoting from the New York Times, 
endorsed the President's deliberate approach. General McChrystal was 
quoted on October 2 in the New York Times as follows: ''The more 
deliberation and the more debate we have, the healthier that is going 
to be'' for the strategy. So for as much attention as has been paid to 
what his report says, or at least part of what his report says, I think 
it is also important to listen to his words about taking the time to 
debate it and taking the time to deliberate it because if all we do in 
the Senate is point a finger to the White House and say the White House 
must do this or the President must do this or the administration must 
do this, we are not fulfilling our responsibilities in the Senate.

A number of us have been talking about this challenge, but we have to 
hear from more voices here and we have to debate this in a very 
substantive, serious, thorough, and bipartisan way. I will talk more 
about that in a moment.

In that same New York Times story, General McChrystal was also quoted 
as saying: ''I don't think we have the luxury of going so fast that we 
make the wrong decision.'' So I think it is important to highlight what 
General McChrystal has said about the approach we take, the approach 
President Obama is taking, spending a number of weeks looking at this, 
focusing on the strategy before the resources. A lot of people in this 
town want to just talk about troop levels only and resources only 
instead of getting a sense of where we should be strategically first 
and then getting to resources.

We should consider the ideas set forth in a recent Wall Street 
Journal op-ed by the following Senators: McCain, Graham, and 
Lieberman--all


respected voices on national security and foreign policy.

This is not going to be the strategy going forward, the solution to a 
difficult problem; this is not going to be a Democratic solution and it 
is not going to be a Republican solution; this has to be a strategy and 
a solution that comes from both parties.

Also, I should say that only by working together can we develop the 
best strategy, and to literally focus on strategy before the question 
of resources. We cannot simply use sound bites to communicate the 
complexities of this conflict or simply reassert talking points from 
the Iraq war debate. If that is all we are going to do around here, we 
might as well not have a debate because that will not do it for this 
debate, especially when we are talking about what is at stake here and 
especially in this case. Politics must stop at the water's edge. I 
think we can do that. This body has done it in the past, and we can do 
it again.

Let me say at the outset that our problems in Afghanistan are 
political in nature and will ultimately require a political solution. 
This does not mean additional troops may not be needed, but it does 
indicate to me that our strategy needs to reflect a deeper commitment 
to supporting the Afghan people in their efforts to focus on at least 
three principal areas--one, the obvious priority of security. There is 
a lot to talk about just under that umbrella. The second focus we have 
to have, as well as the Afghan people, is governance. We cannot govern 
for them; they have to govern themselves. President Karzai and whoever 
else has authority in that country to provide services have to 
demonstrate to us and to the world that they can govern themselves. So 
first security and then governance and finally development, and that 
obviously is a joint effort, not just American-Afghan but all of the 
more than 40 nations that are helping us in Afghan to help communities 
with water systems and infrastructure and education and so many 
others--health care included--so many other aspects that involve 
development or at least quality of life in Afghanistan.

Ultimately, our success will come in empowering Afghan institutions 
to address their own internal security. In some cases, this may mean 
co-opting certain elements of the Taliban, in other cases taking on the 
Taliban directly. We are now at a stage where the United States can 
play a positive role in making sure the political framework for the 
country is sound.

The chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Carl Levin, has helped 
to focus attention on the critical importance of training the Afghan 
National Army or the so-called ANA. I applaud Chairman Levin's 
leadership in this regard and support his call for an acceleration--a 
rapid acceleration of troop training to the levels of 240,000 Afghan 
National Army troops by 2012. While there is some disagreement over 
these training timelines, no one disputes the central importance of 
getting the Afghan security forces trained well and soon. As this force 
is prepared to provide security, it will decrease the need for a robust 
U.S. presence in the country.

I applaud the efforts of Major General Formica, head of the U.S. unit 
charged with training the Afghan troops. While the ANA certainly needs 
substantial additional assistance, we need to acknowledge the fact that 
this fighting force did not exist 7 years ago. Due in large part to the 
extraordinary efforts of coalition forces and people like the general, 
the ANA can be considered a measured success. Without these remarkable 
efforts, the Afghan National Army would not be in a position to grow at 
the pace necessary in the coming months.

I should also add that the recent Presidential election in 
Afghanistan presented a very difficult security challenge, and both the 
Afghan National Army as well as the police performed pretty well. We 
could witness some security problems but on a much more limited basis 
than many would have predicted. So that is a bit of good news in all 
the bad news we hear about Afghanistan.

Challenges do remain, however, and this training process will not be 
easy. A little more than 40 percent of the population in Afghanistan is 
of the Pashtun ethnicity, although they are not fully represented in 
the army at these levels. The officer corps of the Afghan National 
Army, based on traditions that go back decades, is primarily made up of 
Tajiks, who represent just over 25 percent of the population. The most 
substantial fighting in Afghan currently takes place in the Pashtun 
belt, an area of the country in the south and east along the border 
with Pakistan. I hope the Afghan National Army can continue to take 
these important ethnicity concerns into consideration as they grow the 
force.

These are critically important concerns about ethnicity. We have to 
recognize that and not turn away from it.

Second, Afghanistan has a very high illiteracy rate; some estimate as 
high as 70 percent. This presents considerable complication in troop 
training as some recruits are not able to read or write orders, 
understand maps or interpret instructions on how to operate equipment. 
Our trainers have come up with creative training techniques using 
pictures, for example, but this is no substitute for basic skills 
required in a modern army.

The third challenge with regard to building up the Afghan National 
Army and perhaps the most significant is posed by the substantial 
resources needed to stand up such a force. Army recruits are paid only 
$100 a month, while there are reports that the Taliban pays as much as 
$300 a month. Both are small amounts, but when the Taliban is paying 
three times as much, that presents a challenge that we must confront, 
if we are serious about this. The Afghan National Army should begin to 
address the discrepancy. Overall the cost of maintaining this expanded 
force will be considerable, and it is unlikely that the Afghan 
Government will be able to shoulder this burden anytime soon. It is a 
challenge that involves both cost and the reality that the government 
doesn't have the resources to do all it needs to do in building up the 
Afghan Army. We need to be honest about that. This will be expensive 
but nowhere near as expensive as the continued deployment and costs 
associated with maintaining an international coalition force.

I have tried to outline some of the realistic challenges we face in 
standing up the Afghan Army. Afghan Defense Minister Wardak, whom I met 
during my trip in August, oversees this effort in Kabul. Minister 
Wardak has been commended for his leadership of the Afghan armed 
forces. He believes these ambitious troop increases are challenging but 
possible. I hope we can aggressively pursue Chairman Levin's plan, no 
matter what comes of the President's strategy. An expanded and enhanced 
Afghan Army should be a central part of the equation. In the final 
analysis, this fight against the Taliban is an Afghan fight. We need to 
be there to support them, but a stable and peaceful Afghanistan will 
ultimately depend upon how well the Afghan Government can provide 
security for its own people.

(The further remarks of Mr. Casey are printed in today's Record under 
''Morning Business.'')