# CHRISTOPHER AND DANA REEVE PARALYSIS ACT AND TRAINING FOR REALTIME  WRITERS ACT
## `c1587b77a1d2092b7f6f95d34805e9e6`
`Mr. HARKIN — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I wish to speak on two bills that should 
have passed by unanimous consent because they are so widely supported, 
but there are objections to them by some Republicans.

The first is the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act, and the 
other is Training for Realtime Writers Act. First, I am disappointed 
objections have been raised against the Christopher and Dana Reeve 
Paralysis Act on the other side. I do not speak for myself, but I speak 
on behalf of tens of thousands of Americans who suffer from paralysis 
and their families.

The Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act is a bipartisan bill. It 
is a fiscally responsible bill. It addresses a critical need to 
accelerate better treatments and one day a cure for paralysis. 
Currently, paralysis research is carried out across multiple 
disciplines with no effective means of coordination and collaboration. 
Time, effort, and valuable dollars are used inefficiently because of 
this problem. Families affected by paralysis are often unaware of 
critical research results, information about clinical trials, and best 
practices. The bill will improve the long-term health prospects of 
people with paralysis and other disabilities by improving access to 
services, providing information and support to caregivers and their 
families, developing assistive technology, providing employment 
assistance, and encouraging wellness among those with paralysis.

I am, frankly, surprised there continues to be an objection to moving 
this bill forward. I negotiated this bill with my Republican colleagues 
on the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee before it was 
marked up in July. We received specific requests relating to the NIH. 
We accepted those requests. We moved forward. We removed the NIH 
reporting provisions in response to concerns that they were duplicative 
of reporting requirements NIH already had. We responded to all the 
feedback from the Department of Health and Human Services and the NIH 
by incorporating both substantive and technical changes. At that point 
we were assured there were no objections. As a result of these good-
faith negotiations, the bill passed out of the HELP Committee with no 
amendments. Given all of the efforts we made to meet concerns raised by 
Senators on the other side of the aisle, and given that Senators had an 
opportunity to file amendments at that time but chose not to, I had 
every expectation that the bill would quickly pass the full Senate. 
Instead, it continues to be held due to Republican objections.


One of my Republican colleagues has said he will object to all 
disease-specific bills because he does not believe that Congress should 
be able to pass legislation specifically targeting the fights against 
cancer, ALS, Alzheimer's, and so on. I strenuously disagree with the 
Senator on this point. I believe Congress can and should be involved in 
setting national priorities in these fields. But putting that aside, 
the


fact is, the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act is not a disease-
specific bill. Paralysis and mobility impairment are not disease-
specific issues; they are symptoms or side effects that result from 
numerous diseases and situations, including traumatic brain injury, 
stroke, ALS, injuries from athletic activities, injuries, of course, 
from combat in the U.S. Armed Forces, and many others. So paralysis is 
not disease specific.

Now, again, there seems to be another objection to this bill. One of 
our Republican colleagues has said he will not allow any bills to pass 
by unanimous consent that include spending without an offset. Well, let 
me be clear: There is no funding in the Christopher and Dana Reeve 
Paralysis Act legislation. It is only an authorization that allows the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to improve the quality of 
life and long-term health status of people with paralysis and other 
physical disabilities.

Our colleague from Oklahoma, Senator Inhofe, made this case very 
clear in his discussion of the Water Resources Development bill. He 
explained the significant difference between authorizing and 
appropriating. Authorization bills are not spending bills; they 
determine which projects and programs are eligible to compete for 
future funding and provide for congressional review and oversight. 
Authorization bills provide the criterion for spending bills, but they 
do not contain direct spending. So any spending for the paralysis 
program authorized by this legislation will be subject to the annual 
appropriations process.

The Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act passed the House in 
October. It is long overdue for passage in the Senate. When I 
introduced this bill, Dr. Elias Zerhouni, Director of NIH, spoke in 
support of the bill, and let me read something he said that day.




 So, really, as the Director of an institution that is 


 committed to making the discoveries that will make a 


 difference in people's lives, I feel proud and feel pleased. 


 But at the same time I'm humbled. I'm humbled because in many 


 ways the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act is the 


 harbinger of what I see as the combination of the public, the 


 leadership in Congress, and the administration and government 


 in our country that is absolutely unique, and humbled because 


 at the same time, I know it contains a lot of expectations 


 from us. And I'm at the same time confident that we can 


 deliver on these expectations of NIH, with our sister 


 agencies throughout the government. But the key thing I would 


 like to provide is an expression of commitment. At the end of 


 the day, if you do not have leaders and champions that look 


 at a problem in its entirety, today in the 21st century, you 


 cannot make progress.


So that is what Dr. Elias Zerhouni said on the day we introduced the 
bill. I agree wholeheartedly with Dr. Zerhouni. Progress is vital in 
science and biomedical research. It is also vital in the legislative 
process. As Senators, we have a duty to ensure due diligence in 
considering legislation. But for one Senator, or two Senators or three, 
to stall this bill, I believe without legitimate cause--if the 
objections are that it is disease specific, I have pointed out it is 
not. Secondly, if it is being held up because there is not an offset, I 
point out it is only an authorization bill, not a spending bill. If it 
were an appropriations bill, it would then be legitimately subject to a 
hold or objection to unanimous consent because it did not have an 
offset, if that were the case. Anyway, I think for a handful of 
Senators to block action on this bill seems to undermine the trust that 
people put in us as legislators to move forward on things, to respond 
to certain national needs.

Let us be clear: By putting this bill on hold, Senators are also 
putting people with paralysis and their families on hold. It is a 
shame, I say to these Senators. I am not asking you to vote for the 
bill. If you don't like it, you don't have to vote for it. I am only 
asking you to allow the entire Senate to work its will. Don't slam the 
door on our fellow citizens who are living with paralysis. There are 
some 2 million Americans right now living with paralysis of the arms or 
legs, or both. Many others are living with multiple sclerosis. Hundreds 
of young soldiers are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with spinal 
cord injuries and paralysis, facing a lifetime of disability. They 
should not be placed on hold. They shouldn't have to wait. They 
shouldn't have to have further delay. They should have this bill 
passed.

I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to reconsider 
their decision to block this bill. As I said, I worked with Republicans 
before it went to the HELP Committee. We worked with the Department of 
Health and Human Services downtown, with NIH, and we met all their 
objections. We redrafted it and there weren't any objections when it 
went through the HELP Committee. No amendments were offered. That is 
the kind of legislation you would think would be subject to a unanimous 
consent procedure here on the Senate floor. It is a fiscally 
responsible bipartisan bill, as I said, that does not spend any money. 
It only authorizes.

Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining?