---
---

# None
## `c1635323ee9040a3a70d520272a3eed1`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Madam Speaker, I, for one, am looking 
forward to a number of celebrations. One of those celebrations that I 
hope to very much participate in in the near future will involve the 
gentlelady who happens to be the Speaker at this moment.

But having talked about celebrations, I think it would be most 
interesting when we reach the point where the leadership on the other 
side of the aisle, including my own committee, would stop presuming 
that every problem in the world can easily be set aside because you can 
blame the past President about this. As I remember, I think we had a 
vote in the House in which there was broadly based bipartisan support, 
for example, for the incursion of Iraq in support of the then-
President.

I must say we have had a lot of conversation about items that are not 
directly in this bill today having to do with Guantanamo. If I'm not 
mistaken, that issue would not be before us if the current President 
had not decided that he was going, and publicly committed, to his 
closing of Guantanamo. That's creating this horrendous problem.

Setting all that aside as I close, Madam Speaker, the bill before us 
or the item before us is an item that involves the conference that's 
about to take place between the Senate and the House having to do with 
the supplemental funding that was designed originally to give support 
for our efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq and, indeed, a very bipartisan 
support here in the House.

My consternation is that it appears as though we've set aside that 
bipartisan support for the convenience of the leadership and, indeed, 
will have a conference with the Senate that involves two things: a 
significant reduction of about $5 billion in the money available to 
support our troops; and, above and beyond that, for all intents and 
purposes, about that sum of money is transferred for foreign aid, for 
funding for IMF, for providing access to all kinds of countries who are 
not friendly to the United States by way of funding that would be 
supported by our taxpayers.