# COMMEMORATING THE 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE VIETNAM MEMORIAL WALL
## `c18cf30e77050e4587e52ad7357c5a0f`
`Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts — 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts. Madam Speaker, I would like to take a 
moment to reflect upon the events of 25 years ago and to remember the 
tremendous sacrifice a generation of veterans and their families made 
for our country at that time.

58,256 names are engraved on the black granite walls of the Vietnam 
Memorial Wall here in Washington, DC to honor America's war dead of a 
generation ago. The stories of these individuals and their families 
make our hearts ache today and will never be forgotten.

Jo-Ann Moriarty, a reporter from The Republican newspaper in 
Springfield, MA, compiled a series of stories this Memorial Day about 
Vietnam veterans from Western Massachusetts that touches upon their 
experience while serving our country. Their stories are remarkably 
similar to those being told by the brave men and women serving in Iraq 
and Afghanistan today. Sharing this history is critically important so 
that we never forget the serious impact of war.

I would like to submit the first two pieces of Jo-Ann Moriarty's 
series into the Congressional Record today for others to enjoy, and to 
thank veterans from Massachusetts and across America for their service 
to our country.










[From the Republican, May 27, 2007]









Raw Emotions Surface at Vietnam Memorial














(By Jo-Ann Moriarty)




 At each end of the Vietnam Memorial Wall, the black granite 


 rises only 8 inches above the earth--ankle high.



 But, with each step forward, visitors find themselves 


 sinking deeper and deeper into a well of names--tens of 


 thousands of names of America's young men--engraved on a 


 stone wall that, at its center, towers 10 feet.



 For many veterans of the Vietnam War, it feels as if they 


 are descending into an abyss. It can be suffocating.



 All those names etched into the wall take one's breath 


 away. They find themselves drowning in memories and images of 


 buddies and brothers they loved and lost.



 Marine Corps Capt. Daniel M. Walsh III, now the director of 


 veteran affairs for the city of Springfield, had his 


 sergeant, Leonard A. Hultquist, die in his arms during combat 


 just moments before he, himself, was struck by a bullet.



 Under fire, Army Cpl. Heriberto Flores, who is today the 


 head of the New England Farm Workers Council in Springfield, 


 was a door gunner aboard a UH-1 Huey helicopter when he saw 


 his friend from Springfield, Army Spc. Paul E. Bonnette, hit 


 by enemy fire. He was 21.



 This marks the 25th anniversary year of ''the wall,'' a 


 long, thin line of black granite that stretches 246.9 feet 


 along the National Mall. Nestled into the landscape below the 


 lofty monuments that honor George Washington and Abraham 


 Lincoln, it is the nation's memorial to its war dead in 


 Vietnam.



 It was designed by Maya Lin, an Asian-American, at the age 


 of 21 while she was still an undergraduate at Yale 


 University.



 It bears 58,256 names.



 It took a decade after its building before Walsh, Flores or 


 Springfield attorney Frederick A. Hurst could make their 


 visits. Hurst's youngest brother, Army Spc. Ronald C. Hurst, 


 was killed April 12, 1967, when the Jeep he was driving 


 struck a landmine in Vietnam.



 ''It was emotional,'' said Flores, who ultimately first 


 visited the monument with his wife, Grace.



 Hurst stenciled his brother's name during his visit. ''It 


 was tough,'' he recalled recently.



 Walsh only went because he was engineered there by three of 


 his young sons, one of whom became a Marine and all of whom 


 wanted to know their father's history.



 ''I never had any intention of going to see it,'' Walsh 


 said. ''We lost a lot of people. A lot of people were hurt. A 


 lot of bad things happened.''



 The wall holds the names of guys with whom Walsh shared 


 foxholes and who were friends from Holy Name School--like 


 Army Sgt. Walter ''Buddy'' J. Fitzpatrick, of Springfield, 


 killed in combat in South Vietnam on March 3, 1967, and Army 


 Lt. Bernard J. Lovett Jr., also of Springfield, whose tour of 


 duty in Vietnam began on July 22, 1970 and ended when he was 


 killed in action on Oct. 16, 1970 in Hua Nghia.



 Walsh knew and admired another Springfield friend, Marine 


 Capt. Ralph E. Hines, who was killed in combat on Feb. 19, 


 1967. He was 28.



 Oddly, when Walsh finally made it to the wall, he found the 


 unexpected.



 ''It was peaceful,'' Walsh said. ''The memories kept 


 flowing back, a lot were good, with the troops.''



 In Vietnam, Flores saw duty aboard Huey helicopters, 


 dropping infantrymen in the field in the morning and 


 collecting them in the afternoon. He would notice fresh faces 


 among the troops and pray they would make it back on the 


 helicopter by the end of the day. Some were waiting in body 


 bags.



 To Flores, the wall is validation.



 ''I think it is closing the circle,'' Flores said. 


 ''Certain lessons we've learned. The nation has honored us. 


 For so many years, we were losers. And now, people realize we 


 were soldiers.''



 Those soldiers were in a no-win situation as Vietnam 


 devolved into a civil war where the enemy and the innocent 


 were hard to distinguish. Army infantrymen and Marines snaked 


 through the jungles, going from hilltop to hilltop, moving 


 constantly while the Navy patrolled seemingly endless rivers 


 and the Air Force and Army flight crews performed missions 


 from above. Vietnam was a place of guerilla warfare and 


 underground tunnels, where everyone--man, woman or child--


 could be the enemy, or not.



 There was the My Lai massacre, in which American soldiers 


 killed hundreds of innocents, and back home anti-war 


 protestors chanted outside of President Lyndon B. Johnson's 


 White House, ''Hey, hey LBJ, how many kids did you kill 


 today.''



 ''Anyone there was a loser,'' said Westfield native 


 Benjamin Sadowski Jr., the son of a survivor of the famed 


 World War II Battle of the Bulge, who survived his own combat 


 tour in Vietnam.



 Up north in the tiny Franklin County town of Shelburne 


 Falls, which had a population of about 2,600 at the time, 


 families grieved the loss of four of their sons in Vietnam.



 Altogether, from the four counties of Western 


 Massachusetts, the Vietnam War claimed 200 casualties, 50 in 


 the city of Springfield alone.



 ''Two of my best buddies, plus my brother,'' said John E. 


 ''Jack'' Palmeri, whose brother James E. ''Jimmy'' Palmeri 


 died 11 days after being hit by mortar fire on Feb. 26, 1967. 


 He was 20.



 Jack Palmeri, who enlisted in the Army and was sent to 


 Germany, had advised his younger brother to do the same. 


 ''But Jimmy said, 'I can't stand the military for three 


 years. I'll take my chances.' ''



 While others shed their uniforms when returning home from 


 services, Jack Palmeri wore his home in honor of his brother 


 and his friends, Army Spc. Ronald E. Wissman, killed at age 


 20 in action on May 21, 1967, and Marine Capt. Paul T. 


 Looney, a helicopter pilot shot down on May 10, 1967.



 For those who returned home, he said, ''We were not 


 welcomed. The country was divided and Vietnam divided it.''



 In those days, there was sometimes no distinction between 


 the hatred of the Vietnam War and the U.S. troops who fought 


 there.



 The nation was torn apart by race riots. Anti-war 


 protesting students were caught up in the homefront violence 


 seen in the assassinations of Martin Luther King Jr. and 


 Robert F. Kennedy in 1968.



 Kennedy, running a presidential campaign on the promise of 


 getting out of Vietnam, was shot dead in June. Months after 


 his killing, the 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago was 


 engulfed in violence in the streets--the Chicago cops beating 


 the long-haired protesters who had gathered to demonstrate 


 against the war in Vietnam.



 There were the killings of four students at Kent State 


 University as they protested the U.S. invasion of Cambodia in 


 1970, shot dead by Ohio National Guardsmen.



 There was Vietnam veteran and future U.S. senator John F. 


 Kerry in 1971 in combat fatigues testifying against the war 


 before the Senate Foreign Relations committee.



 And, the U.S. troops, fighting in a divided country half-


 way round the world, wound up returning home to another 


 divided country.



 It was a time of tumult and change, verging, at times on 


 chaos.



 Rock star Jimi Hendrix sang to the rage, pain, passion and 


 confusion of the nation's youth: ''Purple haze all in my 


 brain. Lately things just don't seem the same.''



 In Vietnam, New York banker Henry ''Hank'' Trickey was a 


 sergeant in ''Alpha'' Company of the Army's 101st Airborne 


 Division and was steps behind Springfield native Spc. Peter 


 F. Nolan when Nolan was hit by ambush fire, dead on May 8, 


 1970, at the age of 21.



 ''There was no front line,'' Trickey recalled recently. 


 ''Constant movement. You never knew what was in front of you. 


 You never knew if you would make it through the day.''



 Flores flew infantrymen in and out of battle zones every 


 day. Sometimes the drop was




 bad--sending the soldiers off to a set-up by the enemy. 


 Sometimes, the helicopters were under intense fire, and one 


 would go down or an American B-52 bomber would appear and 


 drop napalm.



 ''It was organized insanity,'' Flores said. ''People you 


 are defending are shooting at you.''



 A lot of the guys, like Flores, were high school drop-outs. 


 But blacks, whites and Latinos discovered among the rag-tag, 


 chain-smoking, beer-drinking fearless ranks a brotherhood 


 free from racism and filled with pure faith, courage and 


 valor.



 ''When we see each other, we say, 'I love you, brother,' 


 and we really mean that,'' Flores said. ''I was proud to be 


 there. We did not choose the war; they sent us.''



 The wall which memorializes the dead from a war that once 


 divided the nation has become a source of comfort, a place 


 for mending.



 ''It is a healing thing,'' Palmeri said.



 Hurst, who views his brother's death as a waste of a life 


 that had so much promise, said he has found a peace at the 


 monument.



 ''My personal comfort came from the reaction the country 


 had to the wall,'' Hurst said. ''The wall brought a 


 resolution to the whole Vietnam thing.''



 Oklahoma resident Tommy Kellogg was steps behind 


 Springfield teenager Army Pfc. James A. Messer when Messer 


 was caught in an ambush.



 Messer, 18, a parachuter, had been recently recruited from 


 B Company of the 1st 327 Infantry Battalion of the 101st 


 Airborne to join Tiger Force. It was a fierce band of 45 


 soldiers on a new assignment with loose orders concerning 


 search and destroy missions in the jungle.



 Kellogg has not seen the wall. Nor has Hank Trickey.



 James Austreng, of Wisconsin, also hasn't been able to make 


 a visit to the wall. Yet, after all these years, he still 


 holds the memory of a 21-year-old from Westfield, James D. 


 Zebert.



 It was Zebert who provided cover for his squad--including 


 Austreng--only to be shot dead minutes later in Tay Ninh, 


 South Vietnam, on June 27, 1979. His tour had begun just 18 


 days earlier.



 The Army private who served under Capt. Steven J. Popkin, 


 of Springfield, still can visualize the Mohawk helicopter 


 pilot wearing his hat slightly askew.



 ''Capt. Popkin was one of the nicest guys all around. He 


 was a damn fine aviator,'' said Bruce Gaylord, who grew up in 


 Michigan. ''He didn't lord his rank over anyone. He would 


 never make a joke about someone else. He had a rich sense of 


 humor and a wonderful laugh.''



 ''He was a good officer, the kind of guy you would follow 


 into hell,'' Gaylord said.



 But not to the nation's capital.



 ''I could never bring myself to it,'' Gaylord said.










[From the Republican, May 28, 2007]









Vietnam Green Beret Made Chicopee Proud














(By Jo-Ann Moriarty)




 What can you say about a 24-year-old man whose name is 


 among 58,256 on the Vietnam War Memorial?



 That he was the platoon leader in Bravo Company.



 That every day he assigned someone from the squad to watch 


 over ''Mouse.''



 That he and his grunts, strapped with M-16s, trailed a 


 jungle maze for weeks and fought for their lives as the young 


 lieutenant tried to pick their battles.



 Mark C. Rivest, of Chicopee, was an officer and gentleman.



 He was one of the famed ''Green Berets'' in the Army's 


 Special Forces, and he completed two tours in Vietnam as the 


 leader of a platoon which, for the most part, was composed 


 draftees, many of whom were high-school dropouts.



 A couple of guys in the band of 30 men should probably have 


 never been in the Army, let alone assigned into the deadly 


 terrain around Hue, a battle-scarred city just below the 


 North Vietnam border.



 ''He is a very hard person to forget,'' recalled Manhattan 


 businessman Anthony Loiero, who turned 21 in Vietnam and 


 served under Rivest between 1969 and 1970.



 ''One of the things I remember the most about him was that 


 he tried to keep us out of trouble,'' Loiero said. And, when 


 they went in for the fight, ''he would make sure that we were 


 all protected. He was concerned about the guys he was 


 responsible for. The jobs we were doing, he wanted to make 


 sure we were there to do them the next day.''



 The year before Rivest and most of his men arrived in 


 country, the Tet Offensive in 1968 ramped up the carnage and 


 particularly bloody was the battle for Hue.



 When Communist forces seized the city, they held the city 


 for 25 days ''committing ghastly atrocities during the 


 initial phase of their occupation,'' wrote Stanley Karnow in 


 his Pulitzer Prize-winning book: ''Vietnam. A History.''



 Back home, America was violent, too. Robert F. Kennedy and 


 Martin Luther King Jr. were assassinated within months of 


 each other. America was at war with itself. That summer, 


 anti-war protesters were beaten by Chicago police as they 


 stormed the Democratic Convention.



 By 1969, when Rivest, who left behind his parents, Paul and 


 Catherine, two brothers and a sister in the Aldenville 


 section of Chicopee, and Loiero, an only child, who grew up 


 in the Italian enclave of West New York, N.J., where he still 


 lives, got to Vietnam, the death toll of American soldiers 


 and civilians--both in the North and South--was staggering.



 Before they met, Rivest had completed a six-month tour as 


 platoon leader and, instead of alternating to the rear, ''he 


 transferred into the field again at his request,'' Loiero 


 said.



 Rivest earned the confidence of the soldiers in his new 


 platoon almost immediately. Even-tempered, without bluster, 


 he was approachable and ruled by a shot from his dark eyes.



 He was college educated. He smoked Chesterfields, played 


 the piano and had something about him that Loiero still 


 associates with Louis Armstrong's song, ''What a Wonderful 


 World.''



 It took Loiero 13 years before he went to ''the wall'' in 


 Washington, D.C., to take in the full measure of the Vietnam 


 War's toll and tragedy, his delay mostly attributable to 


 seeing the actual engraving of his platoon leader's name.



 Now, middle-aged, Rivest's covenant to keep the men in his 


 platoon safe with his good judgment and keen skills is even 


 more precious to Loiero who came home, got a college degree, 


 has a successful graphic arts business and is happily married 


 with two children.



 ''We were a rag-tag bunch of good guys living every day 


 hoping that every one of us would live to go home that day.'' 


 Loiero said, adding that he still thinks ''about the way he 


 treated us. How he protected us. How his main objective was 


 to watch his gaggle of geese and to make sure we did the 


 right thing.''



 ''If we were in harm's way, he would be the first one out 


 there clearing the path,'' he added.



 Rivest made his platoon a band of brothers. And, he did it 


 in many ways, Loiero said.



 There were, for instance, specific orders that someone in 


 the squad watch over a guy nicknamed ''Mouse,'' and a couple 


 of other grunts, who Loiero said, ''should never have been in 


 the Army. Should never had been sent to Vietnam. And never 


 should have been in the infantry with the rest of us.''



 Rivest instilled a discipline for constant movement.



 The checklist was drilled into his men: Rifles cleaned. 


 Gear together. Who's got the gun flares. Teeth brushed. Boots 


 tied up. Who's watching ''Mouse'' today? Who's sleeping 


 first.



 ''Then you'd start all over,'' Loiero said. ''You make a 


 commitment to the guys next to you and they make it to you. 


 It is a brotherhood.''



 After their tour ended, Loiero went home. And Rivest, from 


 what Loiero has been able to piece together, returned to 


 Special Forces duty. The next assignment he accepted took him 


 into Laos where he was killed in ground combat on June 4, 


 1970.



 These days, Palmer resident Josh R. Morin, who once lived 


 across from the Rivest home on McKinstry Avenue in Chicopee, 


 carries the green beret of his boyhood friend to schools in 


 Western Massachusetts as he talks to students about U.S. 


 history and the Vietnam War.



 As boys, they played Army together with their younger 


 brothers.



 Morin had been to Vietnam and back before Rivest went, and 


 he warned his buddy against going because the terrain had 


 gotten so dangerous. Morin's combat buddy had been shot dead 


 inches from him.



 When Rivest was killed, Morin, married at the time but 


 living on the same street, said he couldn't go to the 


 funeral.



 ''I couldn't go to his funeral and face his mother and 


 father, the idea that I made it and he hadn't. I couldn't 


 deal with it and now I regret that,'' Morin said. ''I never 


 saw them again.''



 Someone in the family later entrusted Morin with Rivest's 


 green beret and his medals.
