---
---

# CONSTITUTIONAL CHECKS AND BALANCES
## `c18ee37bb0d1bbeb1e55d2eae9210531`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Thank you so much, Congressman, for yielding.

I am proud to join my fellow new Members of the class of 2006. 
Freshmen, new Members, whatever you want to call us, I am really 
honored to be here with all of you and to tell you, speaking of 
oversight, about my trip this last weekend to Iraq. I think it's one of 
the most important functions the Constitution gives to Congress, the 
power, the sole power, to make war and to fund that war should it 
decide that it needs to happen.



I flew out on a congressional delegation that was led by our fellow 
classmate, Dave Loebsack, Congressman of Iowa. And after a few hours of 
sleep in Kuwait, we were flown in by a C-130 to Balad Airbase in Iraq. 
On the way in, the plane's crew deployed flares against a perceived 
threat from the ground. I never found out exactly what they saw, but 
they fired flares for protection.

We got a tour of the base and the Air Force Theater Hospital there. 
We spent a night in the Green Zone. I slept in a guest room in one of 
the pool houses by one of Saddam's palaces, with a big Olympic swimming 
pool and gold fixtures and a marble bathroom that the guesthouse had. 
And I understand this is a subject of some friction with the Iraqis who 
feel that after 4 years we should have handed over the national palaces 
to the Iraqi people rather than inhabiting them ourselves, but that's 
another subject.

I have good news and I have not so good news. The good news that I 
first perceived on my trip is that, first of all, I cannot state 
strongly enough my admiration and respect for our Army, Navy, Air Force 
and Marine personnel. Officers, medical teams, enlisted men and women, 
all are displaying creativity, commitment and a work ethic that should 
make all of us proud, even when they're carrying out duties other than 
they were trained for, such as an artillery officer doing civil affairs 
or training Iraqi police. They are more than up to the mission.

The other good news is the money that we and our fellows here in 
Congress voted for MRAPs was definitely money well spent. We saw a 
picture of a Cougar MRAP that was hit by such a powerful explosive that 
it blew it up 25 feet or so into the air, hooked the utility lines, and 
brought them down with it as it landed upside down. Four soldiers 
inside that MRAP, two of them


walked away; the other two spent a night in the hospital with 
relatively minor injuries and returned to their units. Their commander 
told us that in any other vehicle all four would have been fatalities.

Now for the bad news. We have a lot of other vehicles. We were shown 
a huge parking lot. Imagine the biggest used car lot that you ever saw 
full of Humvees, Bradley vehicles, tanks, trucks, all kinds of vehicles 
that had been hit by IEDs. Some, including Abrams tanks, looked like 
they had been opened up by a can opener and had metal inside that had 
melted and resolidified. Tires, treads, electronics and other useable 
parts were being salvaged, and the twisted steel that was left sold for 
scrap to Kuwait.

Some vehicles were deemed fit for repair, but most of what we saw was 
clearly far beyond repair. The lot we looked at represented thousands 
of American casualties and billions of taxpayer dollars. We were not, 
by the way, allowed to take photographs of it.

In the Green Zone, the most heavily guarded part of Baghdad, one of 
the safest, supposedly, parts of Baghdad, we were shown the concrete 
shelters every couple of hundred feet and warned to duck inside one of 
these shelters if an alarm sounded, because just the week before, two 
American troops were killed by mortar fire in the Green Zone. Even 
sleeping in a guest room in Saddam's pool house, with the Olympic 
swimming pool and gold fixtures, we had to be ready to duck and cover.

We had meetings with Ambassador Ryan Crocker, General Petraeus, 
briefings by the intelligence staff. And my synopsis of the 
conversations goes like this: Ambassador Crocker said, ''the Maliki 
government is somewhere between challenged and dysfunctional.''

I asked repeatedly about what progress is being made toward 
restoration of clean drinking water, sewer service, and uninterrupted 
electrical supply. The answers from all of our briefers were vague. And 
current estimates are that electricity is only on 2 to 3 hours in 
Baghdad, maybe 12 hours a day in Ramadi or the Shia-controlled south.

The next day we got to go to what they called the safest part of the 
country, which is Ramadi in Anbar province. Surprise; the last couple 
of months there has been a decrease in violence there as what they call 
the Anbar awakening happens with the sheiks deciding they're going to 
side with us rather than siding with the terrorists.

Nonetheless, as we rode in the helicopter to the safe part of the 
country, we flew low and fast, close to the deck, with two .50 caliber 
machine guns out each of the front doors, and a couple of times they 
fired bursts of automatic weapons fire. And afterwards I asked what it 
was for, and the gunners said they were clearing intersections. I 
presume that means firing in front of the lines of vehicles to make 
them stop and not drive directly underneath us.

When we entered the marketplace to see the new, safe Ramadi market 
and the new business center, the small business center that had opened, 
we were driven there in a Cougar MRAP and told to wear our body armor 
and our helmets while we were inside the MRAP. And when we took them 
off and walked around the marketplace, we were surrounded at all times 
by a ring of dozens of soldiers carrying automatic weapons, and they 
were wearing their helmets and their body armor. So, if that's the safe 
part of Iraq, I wonder what the dangerous part is.

On the way home we stopped in Ramstein, Germany, launched to a 
medical center, visited some of our troops. I saw one of my 
constituents there and had my picture taken with him, and interrupted 
his lunch to shake his hand and thank him for his service.

There were several Romanians there who were injured, a number of 
Americans, all of whom from Iraq were hurt in Baghdad, attacked in 
Baghdad, and then there was one attacked or wounded in Afghanistan.

Their spirits, in general, were great, and the medical staff was 
terrific. I can't say enough about our medical core either. And they 
really appreciate the visits. They really appreciate the donations from 
home that are coming from individuals, from school kids, from veterans 
groups and from corporations of everything from fleece and coats and 
underwear and toothbrushes, anything you might need, duffel bags, 
because these are soldiers evacuated from the point where they were 
wounded in the field by helicopter to Balad and then stabilized and 
sent off to Germany.

So, there are good things, but there are also enough negative things 
going on there so that I returned with the same conclusion that I went 
there suspecting, which is that the $200 billion more that we're being 
asked for by President Bush for Iraq, based on the presumption that the 
Maliki government, which our own ambassador describes is dysfunctional, 
will be up to the task of resolving and reconciling the differences 
between the different sects is wishful thinking; and that after a year 
and another $200 billion, where will we be? What kind of guarantee, 
what kind of even probability do we have of a stable country to leave 
behind? If the sheiks in Anbar can get together, if the mullahs in the 
south, the Shia south can get together, if the Kurds in the north can 
get together and stop attacking Turkey long enough to have the country 
that they've always wanted, then perhaps we can bring our troops home 
and get to business spending that money here on things that Americans, 
at least in my district, are telling me they need built, infrastructure 
they need repaired, schools that they need to be improved, and other 
things that constitute Nation building here at home.

That is the short version of my report. I thank you so much for 
letting me share that with you.