---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c1978c1ea7b5712d9f998e5b2185ad15`
`Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico — 14 February 2007`

---


Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor here 
today, disappointed. Over the next few months, the United States will 
make some very important decisions, probably the most important 
national security decisions that we will make in this decade. These 
decisions are going to affect the size and the composition and the 
equipment of our military. It will impact our relationships with our 
allies, the perception of our enemies, and the stability of the Persian 
Gulf region. These are serious and difficult issues that demand 
thoughtful leadership and the careful exercise of our considerable 
responsibilities under the Constitution.

The resolution that we have before us today is not binding in a legal 
sense. We are not exercising any real power here. But I think it is 
worse than that. The words in these two brief sentences are vague 
enough to allow people with very different views on what we should do 
to feel satisfied whichever way they vote. The language in this 
resolution is clever, but this isn't a time for clever. Whether I 
support this resolution or oppose it, this body should say something, 
say something that matters about what our vital national interests are, 
about how we should pursue those interests, about what the risks are, 
what the trade-offs are and the potential consequences. We should say 
whether we intend to buy the bullets and the body armor for those who 
are about to deploy and take on the challenges that we face as a 
Nation.

With power comes responsibility. And rather than do the hard work of 
building a consensus here in the House and leading the way, it is 
easier to punt, to be vague and clever, to frame political issues 
rather than confront forthrightly the difficult problems that we face 
as a Nation. For that reason I believe this resolution represents a 
lost opportunity that we cannot afford to lose.

I believe that too often in the last 3/1/2/ years our goals in Iraq 
have been described in the lofty and idealistic terms that go far 
beyond America's vital national interests. There has been a tendency to 
move beyond the hard-nosed and clear-eyed view of what America's 
national interests are in Iraq and we have come to emphasize the 
loftier dreams for the American people.

To be sure, I am glad that Saddam Hussein is dead and gone. And I 
hope that the Iraqi people seize this opportunity to create a unified 
state that respects minorities and has robust democratic institutions. 
But there is a difference between what we would wish for the Iraqi 
people and what is vital for America's national security.

In thinking about America's vital interests in Iraq, I think it 
really boils down to two things: First, Iraq must not become a safe 
haven for al Qaeda; and, second, Iraq must not be a source of 
instability in the region. These vital interests are actually quite 
narrow. Some might argue that they are too narrow. But they are most 
notable for what they do not include. Perhaps most significantly, I 
don't believe it is vital to America's national interests to stop all 
sectarian violence in Iraq.

We admire our military because they are forward leading and ''can 
do'' people. But in this instance we cannot do for the Iraqis what they 
will not do for themselves.

The President is sending an additional 20,000 troops to Iraq. The 
problem isn't the numbers. The problem is the mission and setting the 
conditions to be able to accomplish that mission. Some of these troops 
are going to Anbar, and I think that we do need to enforce our troops 
in the Sunni heartland to fight al Qaeda and to make it less likely 
that they will be welcomed there for the long term. But I am skeptical 
about the Baghdad mission. Operation Together Forward, the effort to 
secure Baghdad last year, failed. The idea was to clear, hold, and 
build; but the Iraqi units did not show up in enough numbers to be able 
to hold what America had cleared. In the early days of this surge in 
Baghdad, there are too many indications that this will be happening 
again.

The resolution we are considering this week contains only two 
thoughts. It is only two sentences long. First, that we oppose 
increasing troop levels in Iraq by 20,000. As I have said, I support 
increasing troops in Anbar, even though I am skeptical about the 
likelihood of success in Baghdad.



But the second thought is notable for what it omits. The resolution 
says that this House will fund our soldiers and our veterans if they 
are there now or if they have been there before.

This begs the most important question about our real power here in 
the Congress. What about the five brigades of young Americans who are 
now preparing their families and packing their gear to deploy? What 
about them? What are you saying to them? Will we buy body armor for 
them? Will we have armored Humvees for them? Will they have trucks to 
take them to their assigned place of action? Will they get the bullets 
and the night scopes and the sleeping bags and the chow? What about 
them? Will they get their combat pay? Will they get their family 
separation allowance?

I believe that the majority in this House and the sponsors of this 
resolution would support a clear statement that we will fund the troops 
and the mission they are being ordered to undertake. But, of course, 
perhaps half of the Democrats in the Congress, from the far left of 
America's political spectrum, want to stop the funding.

In this war on terrorism, the greatest burdens have fallen on the 
shoulders of the relatively small number of Americans who have 
volunteered to take great risks on our behalf. As leaders of this 
Nation, this House abdicates its responsibility if we fail to make 
clear to them that they will have the equipment they need to do the job 
and come


home again. The short two sentence resolution we will vote on here this 
week doesn't address any of these important issues.

If you are asking the wrong question, perhaps any answer will do. But 
we will vote anyway, and it will make headlines, and it will accomplish 
nothing of the hard work we have in front of us. What are our vital 
national interests in Iraq, and what is not vital? What strategies can 
we use to protect and promote those vital interests? What are the 
resources that are required to pursue those strategies? What are the 
risks and the costs and the choices we must make? Are there ways to 
mitigate those risks?

These are the important questions, and in the short two-sentence 
resolution, they remain unresolved, leaving the House with nothing very 
important to say about what matters to America and what we should do.

I have made my position clear in ways that this resolution fails to 
do. I will seek to provide leadership in this House to address these 
important questions, to influence this administration and to focus on 
what is vital to America. It is for these reasons that I must oppose 
the resolution in front of us today.












The Resolution and the Congress


I come to the House floor today disappointed.

Over the next few months, the United States will make some of the 
most important national security decisions of this decade. Those 
decisions will play out principally in Iraq, but will affect our 
broader national security and foreign policy.

The decisions we make will affect the size, composition, and 
equipment of the American military for many years.

These decisions will impact our relationships with our allies, the 
perceptions of our enemies, and the stability of the Persian Gulf 
region.

These are serious and difficult issues that demand thoughtful 
leadership and the careful exercise of our considerable powers under 
the Constitution.

We have to do more than debate. We have to take a stand; we have to 
make tough decisions; we have to clearly articulate what America's 
vital interests are. We have to do things that matter and build a broad 
consensus moving forward.

The resolution we have before us today is not binding in a legal 
sense--we are not exercising any real power here. But it is worse than 
that. The words in these two brief sentences are vague enough to allow 
people with quite different views on what we should do to feel 
satisfied with whatever way they vote.

The language in this resolution is clever. But this isn't a time for 
clever. We are better than this. Whether I support a resolution or 
oppose it, this body should say something about what our vital 
interests are, about why this matters, about what we do recommend and 
what we do not recommend, about whether or not we will buy the bullets 
and the body armor for the troops for the next rotation of troops, 
about the risks and the challenges we face to best protect our Nation.

With power comes responsibility. And perhaps the real truth is that 
the Congress is as uncertain and divided as the country is on what is 
best to do in the Middle East. Rather than do the hard work of building 
consensus and leading the way, it is easier to punt, to be vague and 
clever, to frame political issues rather than confront forthrightly 
difficult problems important to the security and future of this 
country.

For that reason, this resolution represents a lost opportunity that 
we can ill afford to lose.














 Reviewing Iraq Policy


Over the last 3 months, I've spent a lot of time thinking about Iraq, 
reading widely from both classified and unclassified sources, meeting 
with experts inside and outside of government, spending time with our 
intelligence agencies and our men and women in the military listening 
to what they think and drawing on their experience.

At the New Year, I returned to Iraq. I went to Falluja, al Kut, 
Baghdad and Balad.

At each stop along the way, I was reminded of how fortunate we are to 
have such dedicated, capable and decent men and women serving us in 
uniform. They are all committed to their missions and they are 
performing admirably.

Our forces have the ''can do'' attitude that we have come to take for 
granted but never should. They are doing difficult work a long way from 
home and have been at it for a long time.

There are good reasons to be restrained in public comments about 
military strategy and operations when we have young Americans in 
combat. Honest debate about policy can be confused with lack of support 
for the troops.

There have been times that I have questioned the administration's 
conduct of the war over the last 3/1/2/ years--the inadequacy of force 
levels immediately after the fall of Saddam, the decision to disband 
the Iraqi army and the slow reconstitution of the Iraqi Army, the need 
to expand the size of the active duty Army and Marine Corps, and the 
failure to understand the strategic significance of treatment of 
prisoners at Abu Ghraib. All of these decisions were made at senior 
policy levels, not by people in the military doing the job.

I'm from the old school that believes partisan politics should stop 
at the water's edge. The security of this country is too important to 
make it subservient to domestic political maneuvenng.

It was clear to me in late October that it was time for a complete 
review of American strategy in Iraq. That means we must: Fully 
understand the situation we face in Iraq and be honest with ourselves 
and the American people about the challenges we face; clearly define 
and build a broad consensus on exactly what the vital national 
interests of the United States in Iraq are and, conversely, what is not 
vital; and develop strategies, plans, and resources to pursue those 
vital national interests fully vetting the alternatives and the risks 
of those alternatives.














 The Situation in Iraq


Iraq is a country of 26 million people in a land area about twice the 
size of the state of Idaho. About 6.5 million people live in the 
capitol, Baghdad.

Ethnically, Iraq is 75-80 percent Arab and 15-20 percent Kurdish with 
the remainder Turkoman, Assyrians and others.

Iraq is 97 percent Muslim by religious faith. It is one of four 
countries in the world where there are more Shi'a (60-65 [percent) than 
Sunni (32-37 percent) Muslims. Shiite populations constitute a majority 
in Iran, Iraq, Bahrain and Azerbaijan. Worldwide, about 10-15% of all 
Muslims follow the Shiite branch of Islam. Sunnis and Shiites share 
most basic religious tenets. Their differences have sometimes been the 
basis for sectarian violence and political infighting.

















 governance


The Iraqi people have made substantial progress in governing 
themselves over the past two years. They have written a Constitution, 
conducted elections under that new Constitution and formed a 
government. The Iraqi people as a whole voted in the face of death 
threats and Iraqi elected officials serve in spite of risks to 
themselves and their families. If you are wondering whether there are 
Iraqi's who are willing to take great risks to build their future, you 
should visit the military hospital at Balad. Two thirds of the 
casualties brought to our great surgeons and trauma teams are Iraqi, 
not American.

Our admiration for their progress and their courage cannot blind us 
to some other realities.

The central government in Iraq is weak. In part, that weakness is 
inherent in the Constitution under which the Prime Minister does not 
form his own government. Ministers of Health, Interior and Defense for 
example are chosen separately and do not serve at the pleasure of the 
Prime Minister.

Ministers are loyal to different parties and factions. Corruption, a 
long established practice in that region of the world, is endemic. Both 
the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defense are heavily 
penetrated by militias loyal to factions rather than loyal to the 
national government. As one officer involved in training local Iraqi 
police told me, ''The head of training for the police in this province 
has no experience and is not qualified for the job. He has the job 
because he is a member of the Badr Organization.''

Another officer involved with training the Iraqi border patrol said, 
''The commander in my sector was given a list by the Ministry of the 
Interior of 42 people he was supposed to hire. They were all militia.''

The Iraqi central government and its ministries do not have the 
capacity and, in some cases, perhaps the will to support operations in 
the 18 provinces. Even though the central government has money, it 
can't seem to spend it. There is no national banking system so soldiers 
and police are paid sporadically and in cash. They must travel home to 
give their pay to their families.

The combination of factionalism within the ministries and weak 
logistics systems are used to undermine units in the field. As another 
officer told me, ''If I train a really good Iraqi police SWAT team 
that's going after the 'wrong' people, they can be strangled by 
logistics. No bullets. No gasoline. No SWAT team.''

The national police are heavily infiltrated by the militias, 
particularly Jaish al-Mahdi or JAM, which is loyal to Shia firebrand 
Muqtada al-Sadr.

A principal characteristic of a sovereign government is that it has a 
monopoly of the use of force within its borders. The central government 
of Iraq has not yet consolidated this monopoly for itself.

The Iraqi Army is more reliable and has made significant progress 
over the last 18 months. But the quality and capability of its


units varies. Even units that are fully manned usually have half of 
their soldiers on leave at any time. During Operation Together Forward, 
the joint Iraqi-American operation to secure Baghdad this summer, some 
Iraqi Army units refused to be deployed to Baghdad, a clear indication 
of the weakness of the central government and the questionable 
effectiveness of these units.















 levels of violence


There is not a single insurgency or source of violence in Iraq. There 
are a number of interrelated and overlapping conflicts.

In the south, while there has been less violence, different Shi' a 
factions, principally those associated with Muqtada al-Sadr (JAM) and 
the Supreme Council for Islamic Resistance in Iraq (SCIRI) (the Badr 
organization) periodically fight each other for local advantage and 
attack coalition forces as well.

In the northern Kurdish region the Kurdish Peshmerga has made the 
area mostly secure and stable. We can expect violence to increase in 
Kirkuk in the run-up to the referendum on whether this oil rich city 
will be associated with the Kurdish region.

Anbar province, the large province in western Iraq that borders 
Syria, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia, is predominantly Sunni. While there is 
a Sunni insurgency and rejectionists in this region, it has also been 
fertile territory for al Qaeda in Iraq and foreign fighters. In recent 
months, some key Sunni tribal leaders have started working together to 
resist al Qaeda in this region, opening opportunities for United States 
forces to work more cooperatively with local leaders to fight al Qaeda.

Overlaying these regional fights is a rise in sectarian violence that 
has increased substantially since the bombing of the Golden Mosque in 
Samarra in February 2006. Anger and distrust between Sunni and Shiite 
is very high and plays out in death squad killings, torture, 
intimidation and what amounts to ethnic cleansing of neighborhoods in 
Baghdad.

This summer, the Iraqi government with the multinational force in 
Iraq launched Operation Together Forward to reduce widespread sectarian 
violence in Baghdad. U.S. Forces, including the American striker 
Brigade, were sent to Baghdad as part of an effort to ''clear and 
hold'' those neighborhoods. The operation failed, as did Operation 
Together Forward II this fall. Levels of sectarian violence are high 
and are not improving.

The concept was for U.S. forces to ''clear'' violent neighborhoods 
and the Iraqi Army would ''hold'' the neighborhoods providing security 
after they had been cleared out. The Iraqi Army forces didn't show up 
in the size required and were not able to provide security. As one Army 
officer told me, ''It wasn't clear and hold. It was clear and fold.''

Confidence in the ability of the central government, the Army and the 
national police force to provide security has declined causing people 
to rely on local militias and neighborhood security to protect their 
families. In some cases, JAM, Muktada al-Sadr's militia, has built 
confidence and support by blocking emergency response by the central 
authorities while JAM members help victims, thereby increasing local 
trust of the militias and further undermining the credibility of the 
government.

Finally, while the Sunni insurgency may have been spurred by al Qaeda 
in Iraq and various Shi'a groups get support from Iran, at this point, 
the violence in Iraq is largely internal and self-sustaining.

In summary: The overall security situation in Iraq is grave and is 
not improving. Strategies to quell violence have not been effective; 
while some violence is anti-coalition, the most dangerous trend has 
been the rise of sectarian violence between Sunni and Shiite militias 
and death squads in a cycle of violence and retaliation; while the 
unity government of Nouri al-Maliki says all the right things, there 
are strong doubts about the ability of the unity government to reduce 
widespread sectarian violence; further political evolution in Iraq is 
likely as factions maneuver for power relative to one another and 
decisions are made on critical issues including federalism, 
distribution of oil revenues, and the militias. Iraq will make more and 
more of its own political choices, less and less influenced by America.













 America's Vital Interests


Too often in the last three and a half years, our goals in Iraq have 
been described in lofty and idealistic terms that go far beyond 
America's vital national interests.

Most of us in the Congress voted to authorize the use of force 
against Saddam Hussein because the intelligence said he had or was 
seeking to acquire chemical, biological and nuclear weapons and that he 
intended to use them against the United States.

In my case, it was the intelligence on biological weapons that was 
the deciding factor, reaching the high threshold required for pre-
emptive military action.

As we all now know, the intelligence was wrong in several important 
respects. Perhaps in part because it was wrong, there has been a 
tendency to move beyond a hard-nosed, clear-eyed view of our national 
interests in Iraq to emphasize loftier dreams for the Iraqi people.

To be sure, I'm glad that Saddam is dead and gone, and I hope the 
Iraqi people build a unified state with a society that respects 
minorities with robust democratic institutions. But there is a 
difference between what we would wish for the Iraqi people and what we 
need for American security.

The American military should only be used to protect America's vital 
national interests, under American command, with the resources 
necessary to win and come home again.

When it comes to clearly defining our vital national interests in 
Iraq, we have lost our way in mushy rhetoric. These words matter 
because they set the goals we ask our military to achieve and drive the 
strategies and resources to achieve them. There has been far too little 
debate and discussion on what our vital interests are and what they are 
not in Iraq.

Every discussion of what path forward we should choose in Iraq should 
start with clearly defining our vital national interests. As the saying 
on the classroom wall goes, ''If you don't know where you are going, 
you're likely to end up somewhere else.''

In thinking about America's vital interests in Iraq, it seems to me 
there are only two: Iraq must not become a safe haven for al Qaeda or 
its affiliates; Iraq must not be a source of instability in the region.

These vital interests are really quite narrow--some might argue too 
narrow--and probably most notable for what they do not include.

It's not vital to America that Iraq be able to defend itself from 
outside powers. Iraq is unlikely to have an Army that can defend 
against external threats for a long time and we should not define 
success this broadly or even raise the possibility of arming them with 
indirect fire weapons, tactical air forces and so forth.

It is not vital to American interests that Iraq remain unified except 
to the extent dissolution of Iraq as a strong nation contributes to 
regional instability or creates ungoverned areas where al Qaeda could 
thrive. Iraq was created after World War I from three Ottoman provinces 
of Baghdad, Basra, and Mosul. The country has a history of instability 
as a result of ethnic, religious and regional rivalries. It is not 
vital to American national interests that we resolve these tensions and 
probably not reasonable to expect to do so.


There are a variety of governing models from a loose confederation to 
de facto local arrangements that are consistent with the vital national 
interests of the United States.

The Iraqi constitution allows for regional arrangements and we need 
not spend too much capital resisting new arrangements that might 
emerge.

Perhaps most significantly, it is not vital to American interests to 
stop all sectarian violence in Iraq. Certainly if sectarian violence 
escalates to a conflagration that affects stability in the region, it 
could affect our vital interest in regional stability. But the Iraqi's 
must decide to quell sectarian violence. While we might assist and 
support Iraqi efforts, we cannot and should not do this for them. They 
must take the lead.

We admire our military because they are forward leaning and ''can 
do''. But in this instance, we cannot do for the Iraqi's what they will 
not do for themselves.

There are other things that do not appear in a clear statement of 
America's vital interests like making Iraqi into a model of democracy 
in the region and ensuring its economic prosperity. Both of these 
things are desirable. Iraq certainly has the oil, natural gas, and two 
fertile river valleys to sustain itself and prosper economically. But 
these desirable things are not vital to America's national interests 
and what is vital should drive American strategy.

If everything is a priority, nothing is a priority. What is vital, it 
seems to me, boils down to two things: No al Qaeda safe haven and an 
Iraq that is not a source of instability in the region.















 American Strategy


The shear breadth of the policy options for Iraq put forward in 
recent months by thoughtful people is striking.

Quit and withdraw. Reposition in neighboring countries. Increase U.S. 
forces temporarily. Increase forces substantially and with no deadline.

Side with the Shia because they are likely to win. Befriend the 
Sunnis. Destroy the Sunnis.

Withdraw U.S. forces from the cities. Start with Baghdad and the 
cities first.

Divide the country into three pieces. Insist on unity.

These debates are healthy when they get beyond the brainstorming 
stage--which they rarely do--but the breadth of the options out there 
is partially due to a lack of clarity and consensus about America's 
vital interests.

We should also be clear that no strategy is without risk. There are 
no easy or obvious paths here.













denying al qaeda safe haven


Al Qaeda in Iraq principally thrives in the Sunni regions of the 
country. Defeating al


Qaeda and denying them sanctuary must be a central objective for U.S. 
Forces in Iraq. This must be an area of focus and, to some extent, we 
have lost that focus over the last six months as we have emphasized the 
fight for Baghdad.

Using U.S. special forces, conventional U.S. military forces and 
American intelligence capabilities, the United States should target, 
kill or capture and detain al Qaeda leadership in Iraq.

U.S. forces have had some significant success in recent months 
capturing middle and high ranking al Qaeda operatives in Iraq in spite 
of the reduction of emphasis and fewer troops in the Sunni dominated 
areas of the country.

But there is an infuriating fact seldom discussed: fully half of the 
high value al Qaeda targets in Iraq have been captured and released 
before. As one senior officer put it, ''I have great photographs of 
half the people we are hunting. They are wearing orange jumpsuits in 
the mug shots we took of them when we captured them the first time.''

Weare operating a catch and release program for al Qaeda in Iraq. 
This is inexcusable and frustrating as all get out for our men and 
women in the fight.

American soldiers are capturing terrorists trying to kill Americans 
and Iraqis and they are turned over to an Iraqi run detention system 
that is likely to release them.

Indeed, some officers whose opinions I trust describe detention as 
training camp for al Qaeda where they share information and contacts 
improving their skills and enhancing their position within al Qaeda 
when they are released.

We cannot afford to spend half our resources hunting al Qaeda members 
we have already caught before. We need to change our detention policy 
so that there are no high value targets with orange jumps suit mug 
shots in ''wanted'' posters hanging on the walls in the operation 
centers of our special forces units in Iraq.

Using classic counter-insurgency strategies and tactics, the United 
States military and intelligence services should build relationships 
with tribal and local leaders in the Sunni-dominated regions who will 
deny al Qaeda safe haven for the long term.

We are having some recent and fragile success with this approach to 
security in al Anbar. Sunni tribal leaders, with the support and 
encouragement of U.S. forces, are recruiting men from their tribe into 
security units.

These counter-insurgency efforts building on established local tribal 
relationships and indigenous leadership must be supported financially 
directly by the U.S. military. Large U.S. aid programs run at the 
national level have been slow and ineffective at engaging the Iraqi 
people and getting things done.

The American military has the capability to use funds to support 
counter-insurgency operations at the community level rapidly and where 
needed without a lot of hassle. This mechanism has been used 
successfully in Iraq before, although it is not universally supported. 
It's a turf and power thing. To a certain degree, we have a choice. We 
can micro-manage contracts from Washington and Baghdad or we can get 
things done rapidly and effectively giving authority within broad 
guidelines for Lieutenant Colonels to use their judgment.

While al Anbar is a very large area, it is sparsely populated with 
about 1.2 million people, the vast majority of whom live in the 
Euphrates river valley. An intense counterinsurgency strategy in the 
Sunni areas can help to root out al Qaeda today and make their brand of 
extremism unwelcome for the long term.

Strengthen both technical intelligence collection and human 
intelligence collection in the Sunni regions of Iraq.

Intelligence is the first line of defense in the war on terror and we 
are doing a lot of things right. But there continues to be a need to 
strengthen technical intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance 
collection so that more requirements can be met.

More importantly, we continue to lag behind in human intelligence 
collection capability.

We are five years after 9/11 and we still are desperately short of 
linguists in strategic languages. We need more soldiers trained in 
basic 30 and 60-day language programs in order to effectively conduct a 
counter-insurgency effort.

At a higher level, we need more military members and intelligence 
specialists who are fluent in languages like Arabic, Farsi, Pashtun and 
Dari. Heretofore, this has just not been a national priority and it 
must change.












Train and expand the Iraqi Army


The training of the Iraqi Army has gone slower than any of us want. 
They are still heavily dependent on the U.S. for logistics and their 
capability and effectiveness is limited by the practice of allowing 
military members to go home for about two weeks of each month.

Still, the Iraqi Army offers the best possibility for the Iraqi 
government to consolidate its authority and quell violence.

The United States should continue to accelerate training and 
equipping the Iraqi Army so that they can take responsibility for 
internal security.

I am not convinced that embedding large numbers of U.S. soldiers in 
Iraqi units is the most effective way to train Iraqis. I'm not 
convinced that it is not effective either. There are differing views by 
thoughtful people and I don't have the experience to know. But it is an 
important question for the military and its training elements to 
assess. We should pursue training strategies that are most likely to 
make Iraqi units effective and independent in the shortest time.

There are two disadvantages of embedding Americans in Iraqi units. 
First, it is harder to protect and support the Americans to the 
standards we expect for our soldiers when they are detached. Second, 
some American trainers who have been embedded express concern that it 
is difficult to get the Iraqis to stand on their own and take 
responsibility because they think the Americans will do things for 
them. An embedded American trainer told me, ''I have to decide that I'm 
not going to do the maintenance for them even though I can. That's hard 
to do.''

Assist the Iraqi Army and Ministry of Defense in establishing 
logistics and service support for the Army.

While we have focused on training military units--and Iraq may need 
more of them than they initially planned--the systems for payroll and 
logistics support just do not exist. We need to put effort into helping 
them develop those systems so that the Iraqi army is fed, paid, has 
gasoline and trucks and uniforms.

The Iraqi police and border patrol are infiltrated by militia and 
ineffective. We should not expect that the police will be effective as 
other than a mechanism to employ and occupy young men anytime soon.




Support the Iraqi Government as they address Sectarian Violence


I do not believe that the United States should take the lead in 
resolving sectarian violence between Shi'a and Sunni or between 
different militias vying for power in Shi'a areas. The Iraqi government 
and Iraqi leaders must take the lead. We cannot and should not do this 
for them.

I told the President this before he announced his new plan for Iraq 
and I have been clear about this publicly both in New Mexico and here, 
in Washington.

American soldiers should not be in a situation as reportedly happened 
on October 24th when they raided an area looking for a leader of a 
Shi'a militia group and were told by the Iraqi government to stand 
down.

We cannot do for the Iraqis what they will not do for themselves. If 
they do not choose to disarm the militias and stop the death squads, 
Baghdad will continue to be a violent place.

I believe it is unlikely that this violence will rise to a level 
where Iraq becomes a source of regional instability even if it does 
threaten the internal stability and political direction of the country. 
As cold as it sounds, the sectarian violence is not something we can 
stop by getting in the middle of it and it is not vital to American 
national interests that we do so.


This is where we are at most risk, again, of losing our way by 
reaching beyond our grasp.

















 The Surge


The President is sending an additional 20,000 troops to Iraq. The 
problem isn't the numbers. The problem is the mission and setting the 
conditions to be able to accomplish that mission.

Some of those troops are going to Anbar, and I think we do need to 
reinforce our troops in the Sunni heartland to fight al Qaeda in Iraq 
and strengthen relationships that will make it less likely that they 
will be welcome there over the long term.

But I am skeptical about the Baghdad mission.

Operation Together Forward, the effort to secure Baghdad, failed 
because there was no ''holding'' after a neighborhood was ''cleared''. 
The Iraqis did not show up. And the ''building'' never really happened 
at all. It was a failed approach without adequate resources from the 
Iraqis to follow through. We probably made plenty of enemies without 
making people feel safer or more confident in the ability of their 
government to protect them.

Rather than ''clearing'' neighborhoods where there is sectarian 
violence, we should focus on strengthening indigenous security in 
cooperation with the Iraqi government and the Iraqi Army in 
neighborhoods and villages where there is stability or leadership to 
work with. This is an inside-out approach that builds indigenous 
capacity rather than an outside-in approach.

In the Kurdish region, the Peshmerga protect the Americans, not the 
other way around. That is a relationship we built over a decade. Al 
Qaim on the Syrian border used to be a hotbed of foreign fighter 
activity. Now it is largely peaceful and led by strong local tribal 
leaders who cooperate with the Americans and own their community.



In 2003 and 2004, immediately after the fall of Saddam when there was 
no Iraqi government, I believe a large U.S. presence that took charge 
and visibly controlled the streets killing or disarming any Iraqi with 
a weapon would have made a difference. When it comes to occupation, 
quantity has a quality all of its own.

But we are beyond that now. Iraq has its own government with an Army 
that is getting better. They must own their own neighborhoods. We can 
help them, but we cannot do it for them.

In the early days of this ''surge'' there are too many indications 
that we will be doing this for them. Two units of Iraqis have showed up 
to help secure Baghdad, and they are at about half strength.

Like Operation Together Forward, the units committed by the Iraqi 
government have shown up far below strength, which means the effort is 
unlikely to have enough reliable soldiers and police to conduct an 
effective counter-insurgency in a city of 6 million people.

Perhaps more importantly, as projected by the intelligence community 
in Congressional testimony, the Jaish al-Mahdi militia loyal to Muqtada 
al Sadr seems to have decided to lay low, put away their arms and wait 
out the surge calculating that they can afford to bide their time.

In contrast, the Sunni insurgents have escalated their attacks in 
recent weeks. As a result, it is possible that U.S. forces will 
concentrate on putting down Sunni insurgents and possibly rogue 
elements of Sadr's Shiite militia who don't keep their heads down. The 
irony here is that we risk strengthening radical anti-American cleric 
Muqtada al Sadr in the medium and long term by taking out his enemies 
now while his militia lays low waiting for America to leave.

While this scenario is not inevitable, we need to understand that US 
forces in the midst of sectarian violence may be helping consolidate 
the power of a radical anti-American Shiite.















 Funding the Troops


The resolution we are considering this week contains only two 
thoughts. First, that we oppose increasing troop levels in Iraq by 
20,000.

The second thought is notable for what it omits. The resolution says 
that this House will fund our soldiers and veterans if they are there 
now or if they have been in Iraq before. This begs the most important 
question about our real power as the Congress.

What about the five brigades of young Americans who are now preparing 
their families and packing their gear to deploy? Will we buy body armor 
for them? Will they have armored Humvees and trucks and bullets and 
night scopes and sleeping bags and chow? Will they get their combat pay 
and their family separation allowances?

Most of you know that I served in the United States military. I'm the 
only woman in the House or Senate who has. Some of you know that I am 
married to a man who continues to serve as a drilling reservist in the 
Air Force Reserve. A lot of our closest friends in the world still wear 
the uniform. These are not idle questions if you are the parent or the 
spouse or the child of a soldier who is being called up to do their 
duty.

I believe the majority of this House would support a clear statement 
that we will fund the troops and the mission they are being ordered to 
carry out. But, of course, perhaps close to half of the Democrats, from 
the far left of the American political spectrum, want to stop funding.

In this war on terrorism, the greatest burdens have fallen on the 
shoulders of a relatively small number of Americans who have 
volunteered to take great risks on our behalf. As leaders of this 
nation, this House abdicates its responsibility if we fail to make 
clear to them that they will have the equipment they need to do the job 
we are asking them to do.

















 In Closing


The short two sentence resolution we will vote on this week does not 
address any of these important issues. If you are asking the wrong 
question, perhaps any answer will do.

But we will vote on it anyway, and it will make headlines and 
accomplish nothing of the hard work we have in front of us. It is a 
disappointing abdication of our responsibility to grapple seriously 
with defining and protecting vital US national interests in the Persian 
Gulf.

What are our vital national interests and what is not vital? What 
strategies can we use to protect and promote those interests? What 
resources are required to pursue these strategies? What are the risks 
and the costs of the choices we might make? Are there ways to mitigate 
those risks? These are the important questions and, in this short two 
sentence resolution, they remain unresolved leaving this House with 
nothing very important to say about what matters to America and what we 
should do.

I support increased troops in al Anbar--the Sunni region where al 
Qaeda thrives. These forces are part of the 20,000 referred to in the 
resolution. It is vital to U.S. interests that we destroy al Qaeda in 
Iraq and deny them a safe haven from which to operate. The resolution 
makes no distinction or even reference to these forces.

I am skeptical that increasing U.S. forces in Baghdad in the quantity 
and with the mission and tactics described by the President and his 
military commanders will quell the sectarian violence between Shia and 
Sunni, nor do I think it is vital to America's national interests to do 
so. The Iraqis must resolve these sectarian rivalries. The President 
believes the Baghdad security plan is the most realistic path forward. 
I disagree with the President on this point and I have told him so 
directly. It's not about the troop numbers, it's about their mission.

The resolution intentionally leaves unanswered the question of 
whether we will fund the bullets and body armor for troops who are not 
there yet but are going. I believe a majority of this House would vote 
to equip and support the men and women being sent there, even if they 
question the President's strategy. The resolution's silence on this 
important reassurance to our troops and their families brings discredit 
on this House.

I have made my position clear in ways that this resolution fails to 
do. I will seek to provide leadership in this House to address these 
important issues and to influence the administration to focus on what 
is vital to America. We must adopt strategies, tactics and apply 
resources to secure those vital interests and garner the support of the 
American people for doing so. It is for these reasons that I will 
oppose the resolution before us.