---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `c1a5199207635678ed92cd3e06920cef`
`Mr. INGLIS of South Carolina — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. INGLIS of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to say that 
setting deadlines for withdrawal from Iraq is unacceptable. I am in 
agreement with the concept of adding a series of success checkpoints, 
and I suggested as much in a letter to the President 2 weeks ago. It 
worked before when we set deadlines for a new constitution and 
elections, and I think it could work again.

But withdrawal is the Democratic leadership's only solution if the 
Iraqis fall short of the benchmarks. That is simply too simplistic. It 
is too limiting. It is tying the hands of the President and the 
Pentagon.

We should have benchmarks, but the response shouldn't be all or 
nothing. These benchmarks should carry a gradation of consequences, 
rather than an all-or-nothing withdrawal.



Pulling back to the perimeter is an obvious step between surging and 
withdrawal. There are other gradations that our military leaders could 
propose to the President.

To begin an immediate withdrawal upon failure of a benchmark is like 
writing a lease with an eviction-only remedy for a late payment. It 
makes sense to have a section in the default paragraphs calling for a 
late payment fee before you begin the eviction.

The leadership in Iraq needs to know that they don't have forever to 
make the decisions regarding dividing up the oil fairly and regarding 
returning Baathists to positions of public service. They need to know 
they don't have forever in coming up with a working model of pluralism. 
We are providing their protection. We have the right to tell them to 
hurry. We have an obligation to our servicemen and women to tell the 
Iraqi factions to hurry.

But we don't need to tie the hands of our field commanders and our 
President with an arbitrary withdrawal date, predetermined by some 
political purposes and not by what is happening in the Iraq.

The circumstances on the ground in Iraq have changed at least three 
times since we went in--from an action against a dangerous regime, to 
an action against insurgents, to a civil war between Iraqi Shias and 
Iraqi Sunnis.

The circumstances may change a couple of more times before we get 
Iraq to reasonable stability, and, who knows, the Iraqis may ultimately 
want us to retain a base or two.

This bill overreaches. This bill improperly limits the options open 
to our commanders and our troops. This bill makes no provision for any 
number of successes in Iraq, which are still quite possible. And I urge 
its defeat.