# None
## `c1ae7f66c0430a67326a05b627376cb1`
`Mr. SHAYS — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor of the Sikorsky 
Fallen Heroes Committee who supports the families of Connecticut 
soldiers killed in the line of duty. I am grateful to have had the 
opportunity to see the work of this committee first hand. They have 
given so much to the families of our fallen service members who gave 
the ultimate sacrifice for our country.

When families learn of their service member's death, they enter a 
very painful and sad period of their lives. The Sikorsky Fallen Heroes 
Committee has supported these families, acting as a pillar of strength 
for them when they needed support the most. Their dedication to these 
wives, mothers, fathers, daughters and sons has been truly remarkable 
and has been a testament to their patriotism and love of humanity.

In addition to supporting the family of fallen service members, the 
Sikorsky Fallen Heroes Committee has reached out to members of the 
community through events they hold. In June of this year, the Committee 
held their fourth annual softball tribute game to honor Jordan Pierson, 
Philip Alexander Johnson and Nicholas Madaras, three courageous young 
men who gave their lives in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Next 
June, they plan to honor six more fallen soldiers. Their commitment and 
dedication to the fallen is truly remarkable and is an inspiration to 
all of us.

The Sikorsky Fallen Heroes Committee are heroes in their own right. 
They are courageous people reaching out to those in need. We are 
honored and privileged to have people like them in the community. The 
unwavering dedication and support they show the families of fallen 
service members will always be remembered for making a difference in so 
many lives.

It is my hope we can all learn from the example of the Sikorsky 
Fallen Heroes Committee to support the families of the fallen who have 
also sacrificed in honor of our nation's freedom.
