---
---

# None
## `c1b1dd3c37118ff4ac31067c2d277be7`
`Mr. STUPAK — 16 January 2008`

---


Mr. STUPAK. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Private First Class Billy 
MacLeod.

Private First Class Billy MacLeod of Cheboygan, Michigan, was a brave 
19-year-old who answered the call to duty and served our Nation during 
the Korean War.

Billy was among the thousands of U.S. and other United Nations 
servicemembers pitted against the North Koreans and Chinese in the 
Battle of Chosin Reservoir. These men were outnumbered by the Chinese 
and faced bitter cold winter temperatures.

It was in this battle on November 28, 1950, that Billy lost his life 
fighting for his country.

The Army first declared Billy missing in action, but soon after 
informed his family that Billy was, in fact, killed in action. 
Unfortunately, Billy's body was not recovered, and Billy's family was 
never able to welcome him home.

After 58 years, and through the use of modern technology, the Army 
positively identified Billy's remains. Billy's body, along with five of 
his comrades, was discovered in 2002 by accident when a road was being 
built near the trench where he was buried.

Army officials recovered about 90 percent of Billy's remains and were 
successful in matching his DNA with that of his half-brother, Burnie 
Potter. Burnie Potter had given the Army a DNA sample years ago on the 
chance that Billy's remains might one day be recovered.

On October 31 of just last year, Burnie Potter and the rest of 
Billy's extended family finally received their answers. Billy had been 
found and was coming home.

Since October, the family and the community has been busy planning 
for his return. Originally, Billy was to be reunited with his family at 
the Pellston Regional Airport, just a short 20 miles from his hometown 
of Cheboygan, Michigan, on January 15.

However, just a few days short before Billy's expected arrival, his 
family was informed that they'd have to pick up his remains in Traverse 
City, Michigan. Traverse City is 100 miles away from his home. This is 
easily a 2-hour drive, if not more, during the winter months.

Upon learning this news from a friend, I offered my assistance and 
immediately contacted the Army. After numerous phone calls, I learned 
that repatriated soldiers like Billy are treated differently than 
soldiers who are killed in active military theaters like Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

Under current regulations, the Department of Defense does not use 
military aircraft to transport repatriated soldiers to their final 
resting place and instead use only commercial aviation. I was told that 
the Pellston Airport was too small to accommodate a commercial plane 
that could transport Billy's remains. I don't buy it. The Pellston 
Regional Airport is a rather large airport. It is not a small airport.

Furthermore, I was told by the Department of Defense that it does not 
provide an honor guard at the airport when a repatriated soldier 
returns home. Both policies differ for current theater deaths. For 
soldiers who are killed in active theater, the military uses both 
military and civilian aircraft to reach a family's desired resting 
place and provide a military honor guard at the airport upon the body's 
arrival.

Why does the Department of Defense not treat our soldiers the same 
way? Why does it matter, or does it really matter, if a soldier was 
killed yesterday or 50 years ago defending our country? A man died 
fighting for our country and we should honor him to the fullest 
possible extent. This means bringing his remains to the airport closest 
to his final resting place and providing full military honors upon the 
plane's arrival as well as at the funeral.

It was only through pressure from my office that the military 
provided a nine-member contingent of the Michigan State Funeral Honors 
Team at the Traverse City Airport. To honor Billy's memory, and to 
ensure that this does not happen again to another family member, I will 
work to change the current Department of Defense policy on repatriated 
soldiers. In my short time in Congress, this has been the third 
repatriated soldier. Whether it was from Vietnam or World War II or now 
the Korean War, each and every soldier should be treated the same and 
should be given full military honors when they return home after 
sacrificing their life for their country. Every soldier should be 
treated the same, with the same honors and respect upon their 
homecoming.

The Korean War, Mr. Speaker, is often referenced as the United 
States' forgotten war, but Billy MacLeod will not be forgotten. I know 
all of Cheboygan County and northern Michigan residents are proud of 
Billy and are pleased that this brave soldier will be coming home to 
his northern Michigan home.

On behalf of a grateful nation, we say thank you and may God bless 
you, Billy MacLeod. You were never forgotten.
