---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008--CONFERENCE
## `c1b2eb2d734721ffb0998ed144545d66`
`Mr. ROCKEFELLER — 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. ROCKEFELLER. Mr. President, I almost have no words to praise the 
Senator from Rhode Island for the eloquence and strength of his speech, 
which was not only grounded in very deep substance but was delivered 
with elegiac nature that both culled the human spirit as well as 
grounded the futility of torture. I congratulate him.

I also rise strongly in support of section 327 of the intelligence 
authorization conference report. I recognize it will be controversial. 
I don't care. It is important that some background on this section be 
provided. Some of it has been this morning. During the conference on 
the authorization bill, the conferees adopted an amendment that would 
require the intelligence community to conduct its interrogation in 
accordance with the terms of the U.S. Army Field Manual. The full 
membership of the House Intelligence Committee and the Senate 
Intelligence Committee served on the conference committee. So it was a 
majority of those two committees that came to that conclusion.

Section 327 of the intelligence authorization conference report 
directly parallels the provision in the Detainee Treatment Act that 
forbids subjecting anyone in Department of Defense custody to any 
treatment or technique of interrogation not authorized by and listed in 
the U.S. Army Field Manual on intelligence interrogation. Section 327 
applies these same restrictions to the intelligence community at large.

The effect of section 327 is, therefore, to require all of the U.S. 
Government operate their interrogation programs under a single 
interrogation standard, the standard set by the U.S. military. Adopting 
the military standard for interrogation as the universal standard makes 
sense, and I hope some of my colleagues are listening. It is the 
members of the military who most benefit from reciprocal obligations of 
the Geneva Convention requiring humane treatment of prisoners and who 
are most likely to be subjected to retaliation based on the failure of 
the United States to follow those obligations. That statement is 
frequently made, and then it is frequently absorbed and discarded. 
Think about it. Retaliation is the way of the world, and it will be no 
different here. What we do to others, they will do to us.

The U.S. Army Field Manual on interrogation was revised in September 
2006 after significant interagency review. This included a review by 
the Central Intelligence Agency. By providing a number of approach 
strategies such as the incentive approach, emotional approach, and the 
Mutt-and-Jeff approach, the Army Field Manual gives interrogators 
significant flexibility to shape the interrogation. It doesn't 
delineate exactly how. It gives them a lot of flexibility.

The Army Field Manual also explicitly prohibits, as we know, 
waterboarding, forcing detainees to be naked, inducing hypothermia or 
heat injury or subjecting a detainee to beatings, as well as a number 
of other things. All this raises the question at the heart of this 
debate: Should the Central Intelligence Agency, the well-known CIA, be 
allowed to use coercive interrogation techniques to obtain information 
from al-Qaida detainees?

This debate is about more than legality. It is about more than 
ensuring


that the intelligence community has the tools it needs to protect us. 
It is also about morality, the way we see ourselves, who we are, who we 
want to be as a nation, and what we represent to the world. What we 
represent to the world has a direct effect on the number of people who 
determine they want to join the jihadists movement and come after us.

It is a decision that can and should be left to Members of Congress 
who are the representatives of the American people. In the early period 
of the CIA program's existence, I repeatedly called--and I am extremely 
frustrated by this, extremely frustrated--for an Intelligence Committee 
investigation into the Agency's detention interrogation practices.

That was in the committee. I was, at that point, vice chairman and 
could not control, obviously, the vote. So on vote margins of one, we 
lost. We could not get anything going in the way of studying the 
subject and investigation of the subject. Then I moved to the floor and 
once again could not get the committee to investigate the subject. I 
also tried to have the CIA brief all the members of the committee on 
the interrogation program. That also did not happen.

I recognized that assessing the need for the CIA's enhanced 
interrogation techniques, the intelligence obtained from detainees, and 
the importance of maintaining America's position in the world were 
issues that we in Congress needed to debate and discuss, and, 
unfortunately, we did not.

About a year and a half ago, the full membership of the Intelligence 
Committee was finally provided information about CIA's interrogation 
program. It is the whole point of oversight. They are not accustomed to 
us doing that--not just the CIA, but the intelligence community--having 
representatives of the people asking questions. They think it is an 
elite field for them. They are proud of their traditions. They fight 
among themselves, and they do not build into their thinking what it is 
that the Congress might feel about this.

About a year and a half ago, as I say, we were brought into their 
interrogation program. Since that time, our committee has held multiple 
hearings on that subject. We have done our best to learn as much as 
possible about the basis for and the consequences of CIA's program, as 
well as interrogation in more general terms.

These briefings and hearings have led the committee to conclude that 
all agencies of the U.S. Government should be required to comply with a 
single standard for interrogation of detainees. The Army Field Manual 
provides a standard of humane treatment that indisputably complies with 
our international obligations under the Geneva Conventions, as well as 
with U.S. laws.

The CIA has briefed the committee on several occasions about its 
interrogation of al-Qaida detainees. The CIA has described the basis 
for the program, and why they think it should be allowed to continue.

Although the CIA has described the information obtained from its 
program, I have heard nothing--nothing--that leads me to believe that 
information obtained from interrogation using coercive interrogation 
techniques has prevented an imminent terrorist attack.

This is true for a very simple reason. Once a terrorist is captured, 
his fellow plotters, understandably, change their plans. In other 
words, I do not believe the CIA has ever been in an actual ''ticking 
timebomb'' scenario, nor do I think it is ever likely to be placed in 
that situation. That does not mean the information obtained from the 
program has not been valuable. Of course information about al-Qaida is 
exceedingly valuable from an intelligence standpoint. It is bits and 
pieces of information that allow our intelligence professionals to 
assess al-Qaida's capabilities and to determine how best to protect 
ourselves as a nation. But, more to the point, I have not heard nor 
have I seen any evidence that supports the intelligence community's 
claim that using enhanced interrogation techniques is the only way to 
obtain this type of intelligence; that is, to get what they need to 
get.

After 9/11, the intelligence community decided that coercive 
interrogation tactics were the best way to obtain intelligence. It was 
perhaps a little bit understandable then in terms of the general panic 
of the Nation. But the intelligence community--I say this gravely--did 
not take the time to research what interrogation techniques might be 
most effective to come to this conclusion, nor did they reach out to 
the interrogators with experience, particularly those questioning 
Islamic terrorists. They did not do that. They were going to do it 
their way. They simply assumed--and they simply still assume--that 
coercive interrogation techniques were the best way to obtain 
information.

To this Senator, this was clearly a flawed approach. But at this 
point, the administration is so invested in the use of these techniques 
they can no longer psychologically or otherwise step back to assess 
what methods are most effective to obtain intelligence. They go by the 
mantra, they go by what has been done before.

To address this question, the committee explored how other Government 
agencies conduct interrogation. The committee considered critical 
interrogations of individuals who do not want to disclose information--
people who are hardheaded and do not want to talk--interrogations where 
obtaining information can prevent widespread injury or death.

Every day, military interrogators in Iraq and Afghanistan question 
individuals with information that can save lives--every single day--
questions about where explosive devices are hidden, where captured 
soldiers have been taken, or where caches of weapons are stored, and a 
lot more.

Now, the CIA loves to argue: Oh, but they are just 18- to 20-year-old 
kids. They don't have the experience. We have experience. We have 
experience. We have been at it. We are the professionals. They did that 
at our public, open threats hearing a week or so ago.

Now, there is something called the FBI. They deal with pretty bad 
people, too. Their agents face life-and-death situations in both the 
world of terrorism and every-day criminality. Some of the individuals 
the FBI interrogate are senior leaders, individuals who are committed 
to staying silent and not sharing the information they possess. In 
fact, FBI agents recently questioned the top al-Qaida leaders who were 
formerly in CIA custody, gathering enough information from those al-
Qaida leaders to build cases for trial, which we have recently read 
about.

Some of these FBI agents have been conducting interrogations for two 
or three decades. That does not sound like 18- to 20-year-olds. They 
are, without question, recognized experts in their field, and they are 
remarkably effective at obtaining the information they need. Yet both 
the FBI and the military have told us they do not need enhanced 
interrogation techniques. Are these naive organizations? Are these 
people who do not know what they are talking about? Are these people 
who do not have stakes at hand? They are out on the battlefield. They 
are not only at Guantanamo. They are out on the battlefield. They have 
told the committee the interrogation techniques included in the Army 
Field Manual provide them with flexibility they need to obtain the 
information they need.

Indeed, representatives from both the military and the FBI--both--
stated emphatically they have the tools they need to obtain necessary 
and reliable intelligence.

After considering the CIA's arguments, and those of the FBI and the 
U.S. military, I am simply not convinced that harsh CIA tactics are 
necessary to obtain intelligence information.

We also had people who were neutral who had experience in 
interrogation but were not currently in the practice of it. Their 
information to us also was that to terrorize, to torture, to manhandle, 
to do whatever, does not work. Human beings are human beings, and there 
are ways to get at them. In fact, coercive interrogation techniques can 
lead prisoners--and probably will in many cases--to say anything at all 
for the purpose of stopping the interrogation. As a result, coercive 
techniques can produce information that is fabricated and ultimately 
lead to flawed and misleading intelligence reports. This is not 
academic or hypothetical. Bad intelligence is a real danger.



In the early years and months after 2001, we were awash with bad 
intelligence in Washington, DC, not all of it coming out of coercive 
techniques, but out of a complete misunderstanding of what intelligence 
is all about. In fact, there was a condescension from the 
administration about the role of intelligence in providing reliable 
information. So this is not an academic or hypothetical point. Bad 
intelligence is a real danger when employing coercive interrogation 
techniques.


Intelligence reporting from an al-Qaida detainee--a very famous one 
named al-Libi he said Iraq was providing al-Qaida training in chemical 
and biological weapons prior to the war, which was publicly trumpeted 
by the President of the United States, by the Secretary of Defense, by 
the Secretary of State, and other senior administration officials as 
proof of operating links between Iraq and al-Qaida and, therefore, as a 
basis for going in to invade Iraq.

Of course, basically all of us feel now that what the President said 
on March 23 in the other body, in his speech which gave him the 
authority to go to war, was based on intelligence which was almost 
entirely incorrect, and virtually everything he said, other than some 
rhetoric here and there--everything he said turned out to be wrong, 
and, therefore, was one of the most extraordinary disservices to the 
American people, not to speak of the dead and the wounded, that I can 
remember in my lifetime. But the Nation was inspired by the thought of 
fighting terror, and so on they went.

Ultimately, al-Libi, who said these things, recanted. He recanted, 
and it was determined by the CIA that he had fabricated this central 
allegation of this link between al-Qaida and Iraq and other information 
based on his claim of mistreatment during the interrogations.

So this is not an academic point. America went to war based on an 
alleged threat that was partially based on fabricated information 
produced under coercive interrogation.

Apart from the question of efficacy and the risk of bad intelligence, 
the committee has explored the consequences of having a different, 
secret standard of interrogation for the intelligence community. This 
is where the need for section 327 becomes clear.

Since the disclosure of information about the existence of secret 
prisons, and the use of harsh interrogation techniques, the reputation 
and moral authority of the United States have suffered dramatically. It 
is not a casual statement. One can say, yes, a lot of people have said 
that. But when that is true, that means that in Africa and Southeast 
Asia and South America and in the Middle East it becomes much easier 
for al-Qaida and those who would do us ill--and people within the 
United States who may belong to no formal organization like that at 
all--to develop anger, to develop a search for meaning to their lives 
because they do not see hope in their lives, and so they join. They 
join a group that will do damage. Some of our techniques have 
significantly increased the likelihood of that happening.

Rather than being a world leader in human rights, we have become 
known for the unapologetic use of aggressive interrogation techniques. 
Indeed, even Canada has included us on a list of countries that engage 
in torture.

Allowing the CIA to continue to use coercive interrogation techniques 
that are not part of the Army Field Manual is another piece of fodder 
for terrorist propaganda that cannot be underestimated. It is not just 
a rhetorical statement. It cannot be underestimated. It is no way to 
win the hearts and minds of the Muslim world. Ultimately, the war on 
terrorism is a war of ideas. Without a public standard of humane 
treatment, it is impossible to convince the world that we take our 
international obligations seriously, that we treat people humanely, and 
that we are a country of laws and we adhere to these laws.

We must uphold those standards that differentiate us from the 
terrorists whom we are fighting. If our Government continues to use 
secret interrogation techniques that many are convinced constitute 
torture, America's standing in the world will continue to go down even 
more. Every time it goes down, there are more people who sign up to do 
us harm.


The Israeli Supreme Court concluded, when it forbade the use of harsh 
interrogation techniques, the following:




 This is the destiny of democracy, as not all means are 


 acceptable to it and not all practices employed by its 


 enemies are open before it. Although a democracy must often 


 fight with one hand tied behind its back, it nonetheless has 


 the upper hand. Preserving the rule of law, and recognition 


 of an individual's liberty, constitutes an important 


 component in its understanding of security. At the end of the 


 day, they strengthen its spirit and its strength and allow it 


 to overcome its difficulties.


So in closing, passing section 327 is critical to regaining our moral 
authority in the world--which is a little bit too easy to say; it is 
going to take a lot more than that but it is a start--and convincing 
people that the United States believes in due process and human rights 
rather than fear. Having a separate standard of interrogations for the 
CIA--as much as it may want to have it, as much as it may have pride in 
having their secret standard, as much as they talk about 18- to 20-
year-olds--is simply not worth the cost. I, therefore, urge my 
colleagues to support section 327.

But no matter how the Senate votes on this motion, if it comes up, 
the CIA should very carefully consider the actions of the House and 
Senate Intelligence Committee. All Members need to consider what this 
large group concluded. The members of our committees are the only 
Members of Congress who have been briefed on the program and who are 
privy to the administration's best arguments in support of the program. 
That has to be said from time to time, and it sounds a bit arrogant, 
but there are people on the Intelligence Committees, both in the House 
and the Senate, who get briefings, and they know things that are not 
necessarily known to the rest of the Congress. Yet despite those 
briefings, a bipartisan majority of both the House and the Senate 
Intelligence Committees have determined that it is in the Nation's best 
interest to have only one standard of interrogation, a standard that 
can be publicly judged by the entire world, and this judgment by the 
representatives of the American people--that is, what we did in the 
conference committee--cannot be ignored.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.