# INTERNATIONAL FOOD CRISIS AND HAITI
## `c1bae116b58c1046656b6a0672a630fb`
`Mr. CONYERS — 23 May 2008`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bring to the attention of 
the Congress and to the American people the plight of the western 
hemisphere's second oldest republic, Haiti. The Haitian people are 
being negatively affected by market forces out of their control that 
have driven food prices up drastically. Haiti, where about 4 out of 5 
people live at or below poverty, is an island nation that consists of 
approximately 8.7 million people. To put this in perspective, imagine 
the City of New York; now imagine that same city with 80 percent of its 
citizens in poverty.

The American people and Congress have already assisted Haiti with the 
HOPE and HOPE II (Haitian Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership 
Encouragement) Acts. HOPE was the tip of the iceberg. It provided jobs 
to allow Haitians to overcome poverty. HOPE II will create even more 
gainful employment and more sustainable jobs for Haitians and create a 
self-sustaining infrastructure. These acts will provide jobs needed to 
help more Haitian citizens emerge from poverty and gain employment 
which will lead to a more prosperous Haiti.

However, there is much more work to be done, Mr. Speaker. Right now 
the World Food Programme is in need of $755 million to meet immediate 
demands and USAID also needs an additional $240 million. Increases in 
these programs will ensure that school food programs in the developing 
world are not eliminated due to current food price inflation. The food 
price escalation is also affecting the region as a whole.

Due to escalating market prices, in rural El Salvador, with the same 
amount of money today, people can purchase 50 percent less food than 
they did 18 months ago. This means that, in principle, their 
nutritional intake, on an already poor diet, is being cut by half.

In Nicaragua the price of tortillas went up 54 percent between 
January 2007 and January 2008.

We cannot let our neighbors suffer due to circumstances out of their 
control. We have taken small steps but now the government of the United 
States must be an active agent in the development of the third world. 
We must follow the lead of our philanthropic and non-profit sectors.

Too often those in government see aid to developing nations as a 
waste of money, throwing taxpayers' dollars down a well. India is a 
great example of the benefits of foreign aid. In the 1960s American 
dollars funded fertilizer subsidies and high-yield seed varieties led 
India out of poverty and famine into self-subsistence. India is now 
entering the developing world, so much so that their demand for 
processed foods is now decreasing the supply of food aid available to 
countries such as Haiti.

This can happen in Haiti if the United States focuses on delivering 
basic goods to the hemisphere's poorest people. By increasing vaccines, 
textbooks, water pipes, and medical care we will not make countries 
dependent, we will be giving Haitians the basic inputs they need to 
improve their lives. We must invest in high-yield, proven, and scalable 
strategies to empower the Haitian people and those suffering throughout 
the world.

I have submitted for the record an article from the New York Review 
of Books authored by Jeffrey D. Sachs.






 [From the New York Review of Books, Dec. 21, 2006]















How Aid Can Work













 (By Jeffrey D. Sachs)




 In a very different era, President John Kennedy declared 


 ''to those peoples in the huts and villages across the globe 


 struggling to break the bonds of mass misery, we pledge our 


 best efforts to help them help themselves, for Whatever 


 period is required--not because the Communists may be doing 


 it, not because we seek their votes, but because it is right. 


 If a free society cannot help the many who are poor, it 


 cannot save the few who are rich.''



 It is difficult to imagine President Bush making a similar 


 pledge today, but he is far from alone in Washington. The 


 idea that the US should commit its best efforts to help the 


 world's poor is an idea shared by Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, 


 and Jimmy Carter, but it has been almost nowhere to be found 


 in our capital. American philanthropists and nonprofit groups 


 have stepped forward while our government has largely 


 disappeared from the scene.



 There are various reasons for this retreat. Most 


 importantly, our policymakers in both parties simply have not 


 attached much importance to this ''soft'' stuff, although 


 their ''hard'' stuff is surely not working and the lack of 


 aid is contributing to a cascade of instability and security 


 threats in impoverished countries such as Somalia. We are 


 spending $550 billion per year on the military, against just 


 $4 billion for Africa. Our African aid, incredibly, is less 


 than three days of Pentagon spending, a mere $13 per American 


 per year, and the equivalent of just 3 cents per $100 of US 


 national income! The neglect has been bipartisan. The Clinton 


 administration allowed aid to Africa to languish at less than 


 $2 billion per year throughout the 1990s.



 A second reason for the retreat is the Widespread belief 


 that aid is simply wasted, money down the rat hole. That has 


 surely been true of some aid, such as the ''reconstruction'' 


 funding for Iraq and the cold war-era payouts to thugs such 


 as Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire. But these notorious cases 


 obscure the critical fact that development assistance based 


 on proven technologies and directed at measurable and 


 practical needs--




 increased food production, disease control, safe water and 


 sanitation, schoolrooms and clinics, roads, power grids, 


 Internet connectivity, and the like--has a distinguished 


 record of success.



 The successful record of well-targeted aid is grudgingly 


 acknowledged even by a prominent academic critic of aid, 


 Professor Bill Easterly. Buried in his ''Bah, Humbug'' attack 


 on foreign aid. The White Man's Burden, Mr. Easterly allows 


 on page 176 that ''foreign aid likely contributed to some 


 notable successes on a global scale, such as dramatic 


 improvement in health and education indicators in poor 


 countries. Life expectancy in the typical poor country has 


 risen from forty-eight years to sixty-eight years over the 


 past four decades. Forty years ago, 131 out of every 1,000 


 babies born in poor countries died before reaching their 


 first birthday. Today, 36 out of every 1,000 babies die 


 before their first birthday.



 Two hundred pages later Mr. Easterly writes that we should 


 ''put the focus back where it belongs: get the poorest people 


 in the world such obvious goods as the vaccines, the 


 antibiotics, the food supplements, the improved seeds, the 


 fertilizer, the roads, the boreholes, the water pipes, the 


 textbooks, and the nurses. This is not making the poor 


 dependent on handouts; it is giving the poorest people the 


 health, nutrition, education, and other inputs that raise the 


 payoff to their own efforts to better their lives.



 These things could indeed be done, if American officials 


 weren't so consistently neglectful of development issues and 


 with many too cynical to learn about the constructive uses of 


 development assistance. They would learn that just as 


 American subsidies of fertilizers and high-yield seed 


 varieties for India in the late 1960s helped create a ''Green 


 Revolution'' that set that vast country on a path out of 


 famine and on to long-term development, similar support for 


 high-yield seeds, fertilizer, and small-scale water 


 technologies for Africa could lift that continent out of its 


 current hunger-disease-poverty trap. They would discover that 


 the Gates and Rockefeller Foundations have put up $150 


 million in the new Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa 


 to support the development and uptake of high-yield seed 


 varieties there, an effort that the US government should now 


 join and help carry out throughout sub-Saharan Africa.



 They would also discover that the American Red Cross has 


 learned--and successfully demonstrated--how to mass-


 distribute antimalaria bed nets to impoverished rural 


 populations in Africa, with such success and at such low cost 


 that the prospect of protecting all of Africa's children from 


 that mass killer is now actually within reach. Yet they'd 


 also learn that the Red Cross lacks the requisite funding to 


 provide bed nets to all who need them. They would learn that 


 a significant number of other crippling and killing diseases, 


 including African river blindness, schistosomiasis, 


 trauchoma, lymphatic filariasis, hookworm, ascariasis, and 


 trichuriasis, could be brought under control for well under 


 $2 per American citizen per year, and perhaps just $1 per 


 American citizen!



 They would note, moreover, that the number of HIV-infected 


 Africans on donor-supported antiretroviral therapy has 


 climbed from zero in 2000 to 800,000 at the end of 2005, and 


 likely to well over one million today. They would learn that 


 small amounts of funding to help countries send children to 


 school have proved successful in a number of African 


 countries, so much so that the continent-wide goal of 


 universal attendance in primary education is utterly within 


 reach if financial support is provided.



 As chairman of the Commission on Macroeconomics and Health 


 of the World Health Organization (2000-2001) and director of 


 the UN Millennium Project (2002-2006), I have led efforts 


 that have canvassed the world's leading practitioners in 


 disease control, food production, infrastructure development, 


 water and sanitation, Internet connectivity, and the like, to 


 identify practical, proven, low-cost, and scalable strategies 


 for the world's poorest people such as those mentioned above.



 Such life-saving and poverty-reducing measures raise the 


 productivity of the poor so that they can earn and ingest 


 their way out of extreme poverty, and these measures do so at 


 an amazingly low cost. To extend these proven technologies 


 throughout the poorest parts of Africa would require around 


 $75 billion per year from all donors, of which the US share 


 would be around $30 billion per year, or roughly 25 cents per 


 every $100 of US national income.



 When we overlook the success that is possible, we become 


 our own worst enemies. We stand by as millions die each year 


 because they are too poor to stay alive. The inattention and 


 neglect of our policy leaders lull us to believe casually 


 that nothing more can be done. Meanwhile we spend hundreds of 


 billions of dollars per year on military interventions doomed 


 to fail, overlooking the fact that a small fraction of that 


 money, if it were directed at development approaches, could 


 save millions of lives and set entire regions on a path of 


 economic growth. It is no wonder that global attitudes toward 


 America have reached the lowest ebb in history. It is time 


 for a new approach.
