# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `c1bbbfe2f101a29bc50b54fe44203b1e`
`Mr. BAYH — 3 June 2009`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart to honor the 
life of SA Ashton L. M. Goodman, from Indianapolis, IN. Ashton was 21 
years old when she lost her life on May 26, 2009, from injuries 
sustained from a bomb attack near Bagram Air Field, Afghanistan. She 
was a member of the 43rd Logistics Readiness Squadron, Pope Air Force 
Base, NC.

Today, I join Ashton's family and friends in mourning her death. 
Ashton will forever be remembered as a loving daughter, sister, and 
friend to many. She is survived by her mother, Vicki Goodman; father 
and stepmother, Mark and Chasity Goodman; brother, Levi Goodman; 
grandmother, Lois Kammers; aunt, Yvonne Chapman; stepsisters, Amber and 
Michelle Jefferies; half-sisters, Brianna and Courtney Goodman; and a 
host of other friends and relatives.

Ashton joined the Air Force in 2006, following her graduation from 
Indianapolis's Warren Central High School. She served as a driver for 
the Air Force in Afghanistan, working with the Panshir Provincial 
Reconstruction Team, a unit that rebuilds roads and schools in 
Afghanistan. Ashton, who loved animals, was training to be a biologist. 
In high school, she worked at a local pet store and was active in the 
Zoo Teen Club, a student group that volunteers at the Indianapolis Zoo. 
She was also a member of the Japan Club.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we can take 
pride in the example Ashton set as a soldier. Today and always, she 
will be remembered by family and friends as a true American hero, and 
we cherish the legacy of her service and her life.

As I search for words to do justice to this valiant fallen soldier, I 
recall President Abraham Lincoln's words as he addressed the families 
of soldiers who died at Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot 
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and 
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power 
to add or detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 
say here, but it can never forget what they did here.'' This statement 
is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, as we can take 
some measure of solace in knowing that Ashton's heroism and memory will 
outlive the record of the words here spoken.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Ashton L. M. Goodman in the 
official Record of the U.S. Senate for her service to this country and 
for her profound commitment to freedom, democracy, and peace. I pray 
that Ashton's family can find comfort in the words of the prophet 
Isaiah who said, ''He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord 
God will wipe away tears from off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Ashton.
