---
---

# HONORING LANCE CORPORAL NATHAN WINDSOR
## `c1c56541c730c36470516a8d84880281`
`Ms. HOOLEY — 21 March 2007`

---


Ms. HOOLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of a fallen 
American hero. Last Saturday, Lance Corporal Nathan Windsor made his 
final sacrifice on behalf of a grateful nation while on patrol in the 
Anbar province of Iraq.

Nathan understood that citizenship meant responsibility and that 
great sacrifices would be required in order to secure our freedoms and 
to serve our country in its time of need.

Well aware of the danger and more than willing to endure the risks, 
Nathan selflessly charged into chaos to help the people of Iraq secure 
a peace and work toward a self-governing society.

It saddens me, Madam Speaker, to come before you again to ask that my 
colleagues join in mourning the loss of yet another young American who 
has made the ultimate sacrifice.

Nathan gave his all before fully experiencing the many freedoms for 
which he fought. His aspirations to become a movie producer will never 
be realized because his life and dreams were tragically cut short.

Words alone cannot express the anger, frustration and pain felt by 
the thousands whose lives he touched, but we have an obligation to 
ensure that future generations of Americans inherit a land worthy of 
his sacrifice.

We are all indebted to Nathan's spirit and sacrifice. It is now, and 
will be forever, our turn to repay the debt. Let us recommit ourselves 
in this chamber to work even harder and to do our part to make sound 
decisions about matters of peace and war.

I join all Oregonians, and all Americans, in expressing my deepest 
condolences to the family of Nathan Windsor for their loss. Our 
community is greater because of Nathan's short presence and we are 
certainly lessened by his passing.



