---
---

# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `c1cd623bdcf664fa63c35c7f29aabf51`
`Mr. PRICE of North Carolina — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam Chairman, I thank the gentleman.

I am pleased to rise as the initiator of this legislation to speak in 
favor of a long overdue solution to a problem with serious implications 
for our military and for our national security.

Put simply, this legislation ensures that the U.S. Government has the 
legal authority to prosecute crimes committed by U.S. contractor 
personnel working in war zones.

I want to first thank Chairman Conyers and Chairman Bobby Scott for 
their leadership in bringing this legislation to the floor today. There 
are many other Members on both sides of the aisle who worked on this 
issue, including the gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. Shays) who held an 
excellent series of hearings last year, and Mr. Waxman, who has focused 
his committee on the issue this year.

My bill would do two simple things: it would expand the Military 
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act, MEJA, to cover all contractors 
operating in war zones, and it would beef up the Department of 
Justice's enforcement of MEJA.

Madam Chairman, the word ''accountability'' is used a lot in this 
Chamber. Let me tell you what I think accountability should mean in 
this context. It should mean that we have the tools at our disposal to 
ensure that the criminal behavior of men and women working in our name 
and on our dime does not in any way damage our goals and objectives.



It should also mean making sure that rogue actors, the bad apples in 
the bunch, are not able to act in ways that endanger our troops or our 
mission without fear of prosecution.

Our military is the best fighting force in the world today in large 
part because it is structured in a way that demands accountability, 
discipline and unity of action. Military commanders will universally 
tell you that accountability is critical to success because lapses in 
discipline or judgment can lead to defeat on the battlefield or can 
undermine popular support for the mission. So the military goes to 
great lengths to ensure accountability. There is a clear chain of 
command, extensive training on legal and illegal actions in war, and 
perhaps most importantly, clear consequences for violations.

During the war in Iraq alone, there have been over 60 courts martial 
and hundreds of nonjudicial punishments of military personnel under the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice. There is good reason for this 
accountability. If a military servicemember unlawfully kills an 
innocent civilian or steals property or defiles a cultural icon, it 
contributes to popular outrage against American forces. It makes the 
military's mission more difficult. It undermines our national security. 
It could motivate insurgents and provide fodder for terrorist 
organizations.

What is more, if we can't ensure the rule of law for our own 
personnel, how can we credibly ask other nations, like Iraq, to uphold 
the rule of law when their own citizens commit crimes?

Unlike the military, there is no clear chain of command for 
contractors, little in the way of standards for training and vetting 
personnel, and often no legal accountability for misconduct. As the 
recent shooting incident involving Blackwater U.S.A. employees 
demonstrated, contractors can clearly act in ways that have serious 
implications for our national security. If we don't hold contract 
personnel accountable for misconduct as we do for our own military, we 
are not only failing to uphold moral responsibilities, we are 
endangering the men and women of our Armed Forces and we are 
undermining our Nation's credibility as a country that upholds the rule 
of law.

Now, it may be hard for some of us to believe that this gaping hole 
in the law exists. In fact, as my colleague from Virginia (Mr. Forbes) 
has stated, certain contractors, those working under the Department of 
Defense, are already covered by MEJA. But others are not.

I would like to know what the gentleman from Virginia would say to 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice at this very moment as she is 
contemplating what authority she has or can piece together to deal with 
the Blackwater incident of 2 weeks ago, if it turns out investigations 
show that prosecution is warranted? Contractors working under the 
Department of State or USAID, a category that includes most armed 
security contractors, are not now covered under this law.

Now, the law isn't the only problem. We also have seen a serious 
deficiency in enforcement. Even though MEJA does cover DOD contractors, 
I am not aware of a single case of violent contractor misconduct that 
has, in fact, been prosecuted in court. I have been told that MEJA has 
been applied in only one case in Iraq and Afghanistan, and that was a 
defense contractor convicted of child pornography.

There is nearly universal support for accountability for contractors 
and there is broad support for the approach taken by this bill. Leading 
human rights organizations like Amnesty International, Human Rights 
Watch, and Human Rights First support the bill, as do contractor 
associations such as the International Peace Operations Association.

My bill will improve the law and will improve enforcement. It will 
give our country the ability to hold contractors accountable, which 
will enhance our national security and the safety of our troops, and it 
will ensure that our country remains a model of law and integrity for 
the rest of the world.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.