---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `c1d5fab22c7624b25e56152484c5e210`
`Mr. MURTHA — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. MURTHA. As the gentleman from Florida said, we just passed a $459 
billion bipartisan Defense appropriation bill, and it funds the troops, 
it funds the health care, it funds almost all the Defense Department. 
It does not fund the war in Iraq.

Now, when I spoke out 2 years ago, I said we need stability in the 
Middle East. All of us want stability in the Middle East. We can talk 
about Iraq, but it's not in isolation that you talk about Iraq. You 
have to talk about Pakistan and what's happening in Pakistan and why we 
haven't had an overall diplomatic success there. You can talk about 
Turkey, on the verge with tanks moving towards the border and might go 
into Kyrkystan, which would completely disrupt what is going on in 
Iraq.

You can talk about Iran and the policy that we have had in Iraq and 
how it has disappointed us with the influence that Iran has gained. 
When we were attacked, Iran was one of the first countries to come to 
the support of the United States with their concern about what had 
happened, their concern about al Qaeda.

What we are trying to do here today is stop torture. We do it by 
saying the Army Field Manual has to be the guideline for torture. If 
you're going to have prisoners, and I have talked to service people, 
Colin Powell agrees with this, Gates agrees with this, almost all the 
military understands if you don't have guidelines set by the Army Field 
Manual, it hurts our troops. It's pretty hard to argue. If you're for 
torture, I don't say you vote for this or you vote against this bill, 
but this stops torture by saying you've got to comply with the Army 
Field Manual.

The other thing we say in this bill is you have to have fully 
equipped and fully trained troops. Can anybody argue about that? Is 
there anybody that can say to me we shouldn't have fully trained and 
fully equipped troops? I don't think so.



The other thing, it sets a goal. And the goal is to start the 
redeployment out of Iraq and have them out within a year. That doesn't 
mean that we are going to necessarily get it, but we have to start it. 
At some time we have to convince the Iraqis that we need to change the 
direction and they are going to have to take responsibility. I think 
they have started that. I think we have backed off a little bit.

What we did in Vietnam was make the mistake that every time they made 
a mistake, we took over. In this particular case, we have to let the 
Iraqis continue to do their job.

Now, the government has let us down; there is no question about it. 
The government has not changed the policies. There has been ethnic 
cleansing. There have been 4 million people ethnically cleansed either 
by sending them out of the country or by moving them from Sunni areas 
into Shiite areas or vice versa.

This is one of the reasons that the military commanders have said 
over and over, the Iraqis are finally taking an interest. The al Qaeda 
has been defeated, according to what the military commanders are 
saying.

What is the point in us being there if al Qaeda has been defeated? I 
said a couple of years ago, there are only 2 or 3,000 al Qaeda, and the 
Iraqis know where they are and know what they have to do to take care 
of them.

I am convinced that this bill starts to force the Congress to have 
oversight. We are the board of directors, somebody said to me today. 
The President is the executive officer. We are the board of directors. 
When the board of directors sees the policies going in the wrong way, 
and actually, the people of the United States are the board of 
directors and we act for the board of directors by the people of the 
United States. If we think it is going the wrong way, we have to change 
the policy.

This is a change in policy. This holds the President accountable for 
the decisions he is making. It doesn't tie the commanders' hands. No 
torture. They are supplied with equipment and training. That is not 
tying the hands of the commanders. And we are starting to get them out 
already.

Al Qaeda has been defeated. The civil war has wound down. It is time 
to get us out. Let's remember, stability in the Middle East doesn't 
depend just on Iraq. It depends on Pakistan with nuclear weapons or the 
possibility of nuclear weapons. Stability depends on Iran. Stability 
depends on Syria. Stability depends on Turkey, our allies. We need a 
diplomatic effort.

As I said and the Chief of the Joint Chiefs said, we cannot win this 
militarily; it has to be won by the Iraqis and it has to be won 
diplomatically.

This helps us hold the administration accountable, and I would ask 
for all Members to vote for a bill that changes the direction of this 
Congress and this country in this effort in Iraq.


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH14NO07.001




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH14NO07.002




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH14NO07.003




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH14NO07.004




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH14NO07.005




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH14NO07.006




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH14NO07.007




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH14NO07.008



