# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `c1e2e33a8a2b442ae763a125220dc81c`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, the fiscal year 2009 Iraq/Afghanistan 
Defense Supplemental Appropriations bill provides $105.9 billion, 77 
percent of which would be to cover costs relating to the wars in 
Afghanistan and Iraq for the rest of this fiscal year. I voted for 
these funds because I chose to give President Obama time to implement 
his Afghanistan strategy and withdraw troops from Iraq. But it was not 
an easy decision.

The war in Afghanistan has entered its eighth year without clearly 
defined objectives and an exit strategy. With a deteriorating security 
situation and no comprehensive political outcome yet in sight, some 
experts view the war in Afghanistan as open-ended. Had the Bush 
Administration not shifted its focus to the unnecessary war in Iraq, we 
may have already brought Al Qaeda and the Taliban to justice. I believe 
President Obama made an error by ordering an additional 17,000 troops 
to Afghanistan before first completing a detailed review of U.S. 
Afghanistan policies. Continuing the vaguely defined strategies of the 
Bush Administration is not acceptable.

The President did finally lay out a strategy for Afghanistan in late 
March of this year. It made some significant improvements to the 
Afghanistan strategy, but fell short in other areas. For example, I was 
pleased to see a regional approach, ''treating Afghanistan and Pakistan 
as two countries but one challenge,'' and a commitment to ''devote 
significantly more resources to the civilian efforts in both 
Afghanistan and Pakistan.'' These are significant improvements over the 
Bush Administration's approach.

Unfortunately, the President's new Afghan strategy fails to set clear 
benchmarks for the Afghanistan and Pakistan governments and fails to 
lay out the consequences of not meeting the benchmarks. It is not 
surprising that the President has also failed to set benchmarks for the 
Pentagon and State Department too.

Thankfully, the supplemental bill lays out detailed benchmarks for 
Afghanistan and Pakistan and the President must report back to Congress 
on the:

(1) Level of political consensus and unity of purpose across ethnic, 
tribal, religious and party affiliations to confront the political and 
security challenges facing the region.

(2) Level of government corruption and actions taken to eliminate it.

(3) Performance of the respective security forces in developing a 
counterinsurgency capability, conducting counterinsurgency operations 
and establishing population security.

(4) Performance of the respective intelligence agencies in 
cooperating with the United States on counterinsurgency and 
counterterrorism operations and in purging themselves of policies, 
programs and personnel that provide material support to extremist 
networks that target U.S. troops or undermine U.S. objectives in the 
region.

(5) Ability of the Afghan and Pakistani governments to effectively 
control the territory within their respective borders.

In addition, I am an original cosponsor of the McGovern bill that 
simply states, ''Not later than December 31, 2009, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to Congress a report outlining the United States 
exit strategy for United States military forces in Afghanistan 
participating in Operation Enduring Freedom.'' I firmly believe that 
the United States is best served by outlining a clear exit strategy 
that the American public can support and that the Afghani public can be 
reassured that we have no long-term desire to occupy their nation.

Unfortunately, President Bush's disregard for the complexities of 
Afghanistan and the damage that came from his disregard may make this 
war unwinnable. We also must not forget that the Soviet military, with 
over a hundred thousand troops on the ground, lost decisively in 
Afghanistan. Today, our troops are fighting some of the very same 
warlords who defeated the Soviets with our covert support.

As you may know, Secretary of Defense Bill Gates, removed the 
commanding general of Afghanistan in a bid to change the-on-the ground 
strategy in Afghanistan. With a new White House strategy, a new 
commanding general, and 21,000 additional troops, I believe this is now 
President Obama's war.

The bill also funds the continued presence of our troops in Iraq. 
Despite the continued bursts of violence in Iraq, I am thankful the 
President has committed to a responsible redeployment of troops out of 
Iraq. This bill recognizes and supports President Obama's plan to 
withdraw all U.S. combat brigades from Iraq by August 31, 2010 and all 
U.S. military forces by December 31, 2011. The bill continues to 
prohibit the construction of any base for the permanent stationing of 
U.S. forces in Iraq and U.S. control over any oil resource of Iraq. To 
ensure accountability, the bill directs the Secretary of Defense to 
submit a report to Congress every 90 days that includes:

1. How the Government of Iraq is assuming responsibility for 
reconciliation initiatives;

2. How the drawdown of military forces complies with the President's 
timeline; and

3. The roles and responsibilities of remaining contractors in Iraq as 
the U.S. mission evolves.

The bill does some very good things besides funding wars for 
Afghanistan and Iraq. I am very supportive of the $534 million for 
additional pay for more than 170,000 troops who have had their 
enlistments involuntarily extended since Sept. 11, 2001. These funds 
allow for payments of $500 per month for every month a soldier was held 
on active duty under ''stop-loss'' orders. The average payment should 
be above $4,000. Stop loss orders were used by the Bush Administration 
to avoid tough decisions on deployment and troop increases, creating a 
de facto draft for current soldiers. These payments are a good step to 
honor the sacrifice unfairly asked of these brave men and women.

I also support some of the foreign aid in the bill. The $660 million 
for bilateral economic, humanitarian, and security assistance for the 
West Bank and Gaza represents an important


commitment to the Middle East peace process. In addition, the bill 
includes $889 million for United Nations peacekeeping operations, 
including an expanded mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and a new mission in Chad and the Central African Republic. Finally, 
the bill includes $700 million for international food assistance to 
alleviate suffering during the global economic crisis.

Finally, I was pleased that the conference agreement provides $7.7 
billion for efforts to address a potential pandemic flu. The total 
includes $1.5 billion for the Health and Human Services Department and 
the Center for Disease Control to supplement federal stockpiles, 
develop and purchase vaccines, and to expand detection efforts, and 
$5.8 billion in contingent emergency funds. Of the $1.5 billion, $350 
million was set aside to assist state and local governments in 
preparing for and responding to a pandemic.

Unfortunately, the conference agreement included a $108 billion loan 
to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). I objected to this loan 
because Congress should not be in the business of bailing out Central 
and Eastern European nations that lost money speculating in highly 
deregulated financial markets and now are indebted to European banks.

The $108 billion loan to the IMF is an unreasonable and irresponsible 
burden to place on the backs of American taxpayers. They're already 
paying through the nose for the $700 billion blank check passed by 
Congress for ''too big to fail'' banks. For the record, I voted against 
the bank bailout. And, now, Congress is returning to the American 
taxpayers hat in hand for a rescue package to bailout European banks.

The fact that we continue to run annual deficits means the Federal 
Reserve will print the $108 billion or borrow it from China. In other 
words, the U.S. will borrow funds from China to, lend to the 
International Monetary Fund, which will lend to a Central or Eastern 
European country to help rescue a foreign bank caught in the credit 
bubble.

We should be focusing on economic recovery at home rather than 
loaning billions of dollars to the IMF to rescue troubled European 
banks. I vehemently oppose the inclusion of the $108 billion for the 
IMF in the War Supplemental bill. Had this provision been voted on 
separately--as it should have--I would have voted against this 
provision.

Reluctantly, I voted in favor of this bill because it reversed the 
Bush Administration's irresponsible approach to the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I will continue to watchdog the IMF and look for 
opportunities to rein in their misguided attempt at restructuring 
poorer nation's economies.