# IN HONOR OF STAFF SERGEANT ANTHONY L. MASON, TEXAS NATIONAL GUARD
## `c1f10a60514931071790a5722d61107b`
`Ms. GRANGER — 3 October 2008`

---


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the courage of a 
brave and dedicated hero of the state of Texas and of our Nation.

Staff Sergeant Anthony L. Mason, known as Luke to his family and 
friends, was a soldier in the Texas National Guard and a true American 
hero. Luke gallantly and selflessly gave his life in the service of his 
country on September 18, 2008, when his helicopter went down near 
Tallil, Iraq.

It was his second tour in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Assigned to 2nd Battalion, 149th Aviation, 36th Combat Aviation 
Brigade as a helicopter engineer, Luke did his part during a time of 
war, a fact that speaks volumes about his character and patriotism.

As a Staff Sergeant, he was a leader and mentor to the younger 
members of his unit. His fellow soldiers admired him for his 
professionalism, technical knowledge, and his approachable character.

During his civilian life, Luke was a friend to many. His positive 
influence is evidenced by his community's response to his death and the 
support they have readily offered to his family.

Our thoughts and prayers are with Staff Sergeant Mason's wife, his 
four daughters, his parents, and all of his family and friends. His 
community and Nation honor his memory and we are grateful for his 
faithful and distinguished service to America.

Staff Sergeant Mason will not be forgotten. His memory lives on 
through his family and the legacy of selfless service that he so 
bravely imprinted on our hearts.
