# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `c1f4f904df3bab7ebe2e4b42b6f63607`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 26 April 2007`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr President, this morning I had the honor of saluting 
members of the Maryland Army National Guard as they departed to begin 
training for their upcoming deployment to Iraq. The 58th Brigade Combat 
Team, including the Headquarters Company from Pikesville, MD, the 1st 
Battalion of the 175th Infantry from Dundalk, MD, and the 1st Squadron 
of the 158th Cavalry Regiment, are leaving their families and 
communities to answer our Nation's call. As the Senator from Maryland 
and the Senator for Maryland, I have promised them that I will do 
everything I can to support them while they are on the battlefield, 
help care for their families while they are gone, and ensure they have 
the medical care, education, and job training benefits they need when 
they return.

I support the conference report on the fiscal year 2007 emergency 
supplemental appropriations bill because it will help us keep our 
promises to America's citizen soldiers and their families. 
Unfortunately, President Bush continues to threaten to veto this bill. 
I hope it will not come to that. I


urge the President to work with this Congress to meet the pressing 
needs of our men and women in uniform.

I support this emergency supplemental bill because it: Fully funds 
the needs of our warfighters on the battlefield; adds $466 million to 
ensure veterans get health care they need when they come home; and 
requires the President to immediately change our mission in Iraq; and 
sets the goal of bringing our troops home by no later than April 1, 
2008.

This bill states clearly that Congress and the American people will 
continue to support and protect our troops. Our troops must understand 
that Congress will never abandon them, not while they are fighting on 
the battlefield and not when they come home. The best way to support 
our troops is to bring them home--swiftly and safely.

I am not new to this position. I never wanted to go to war in the 
first place. I was one of the 23 who voted against this war, 4 years 
ago, on October 11, 2002. I opposed giving the President unilateral 
authority to launch a preemptive attack. I said the United States had 
to exhaust our diplomatic options. I encouraged the administration to 
stick with the United Nations U.N., to let the U.N. meet its 
responsibility to deal with the threat from Saddam. The day of the 
vote, I said, we don't know if we will be greeted with flowers or 
landmines. Well, now we know: When we got to Iraq, there were no 
weapons of mass destruction, but the destruction happened, and it 
happened fast.

The United States went to war with Iraq, but today, we are at war 
within Iraq. Saddam is gone, but we are still there, mired in a civil 
war. No one could ask more of our troops. They are brave and courageous 
and have fought valiantly. And it is time to bring them home.

We need a way forward in Iraq. The Iraq Study Group gives us 79 
recommendations as a way to go forward, but the President has 
completely ignored this report. Surely out of 79 recommendations, there 
are 50 we can agree on. The Iraq Study Group report calls for new and 
enhanced diplomatic and political efforts in Iraq and a change in the 
primary mission of U.S. forces in Iraq to enable the United States to 
begin to move our forces out of Iraq responsibly. It provides a 
direction for the U.S. and Iraqi Governments to follow that could lead 
to withdrawal of American forces by the first quarter of 2008.

This is exactly the approach called for by this supplemental bill, 
which will have most of our troops out of Iraq by March 31, 2008. What 
are we voting for? This bill contains a binding resolution that directs 
the President to promptly transition the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq 
and begin a phased redeployment within 120 days. It sets a goal of 
bringing U.S. combat forces home by April 1, 2008, except for a limited 
number of troops essential for force protection, training, and 
equipping Iraqi troops, and targeted counter terror operations.

This resolution also says success in Iraq depends on the Iraqi 
Government's ability to meet important benchmarks, including the 
training and equipping of Iraqi security forces so they can control the 
capitol city of Baghdad; giving Iraqi military commanders the authority 
to conduct operations without political interference; disarming 
sectarian militias and ensuring that Iraqi security forces are loyal to 
Iraq's Government; drafting and implementing legislation to ensure the 
equal division of Iraqi oil revenues; drafting and implementing 
legislation to reform the debaathification process; implementing a fair 
process for amending the Iraqi constitution to ensure minority rights 
are protected; and implementing new rules to protect minority rights in 
the Iraqi Parliament.

I support this Iraq resolution. It says what the Iraq Study Group has 
already told us: the problems in Iraq cannot be solved by the U.S. 
military--they require a political solution by the Iraqis and 
diplomatic engagement with Iraq's neighbors. It says Congress and the 
American people will not only support the troops but continue to 
protect them as well.

I want to end this war, and the resolution in this bill will do just 
that. Yet in ending the war, it is my responsibility as a Senator to 
ensure that our troops are brought home not only swiftly but safely. I 
will not vote to end funding for the pay that supports military spouses 
and children, body armor and armored humvees our troops need for 
survival, tourniquets and surgical hospitals on the battlefield, jet 
fuel for the airplanes that take injured troops from Baghdad to Germany 
and then home, or the medical care they need when they get here.

In the last few weeks, we have all been shocked and awed by the 
conditions facing our wounded warriors. We know that more than 22,000 
Purple Hearts have been awarded in Iraq. Yet our troops are being twice 
wounded. We know that acute care for our injured troops has been 
astounding, with historic rates of survival from even the most brutal 
battlefield injuries. Yet, while we have saved their lives, we are 
failing to give them their life back. Outpatient care, facilities, 
social work, case workers, disability benefits--the whole system is 
dysfunctional.

This supplemental includes an additional $20 million to improve 
conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and an additional $900 
million for research and treatment of traumatic brain injury, post-
traumatic stress disorder, and other physical and mental trauma. It 
also adds $466 million for veterans' health care, including $53 million 
for new polytrauma facilities and services, $10 million for 100 
additional caseworkers to aid troops and their families as they 
transition from active duty, $25 million for prosthetic research and 
$120 million for mental health treatment.

We know this is only a downpayment for our troops and veterans. We 
need to overhaul the disability benefits system that is outdated and 
adversarial. We need a better system for transitioning our troops from 
active duty to the Veterans' Administration, to ensure they get the 
health care, job training, and educational benefits they deserve. We 
need to hear the recommendations of the Dole-Shalala Commission on how 
to fix the problems in our military and veterans hospitals. And I look 
forward to working with Senator Murray, Senator Levin, and Senator 
Inouye on a comprehensive reform package that will ensure our troops 
have the medical care they will need for the rest of their lives.

This supplemental supports our troops, follows the will of the 
American people, and follows the advice of the Iraq Study Group. It is 
time to change our direction in Iraq and bring our forces home. Let's 
send in the diplomats and bring our troops home safely and soon.