# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c1fc8f720ef5607c0f02585ebe096f24`
`Mr. MANZULLO — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. MANZULLO. Madam Speaker, I am privileged to be a member of the 
House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Our chairman, Mr. Lantos, has 
scheduled for March a hearing to discuss the different proposals 
relating to the handling of the war in Iraq. He has promised a lot of 
time for debate on all the different bills introduced in the House of 
Representatives, ranging from those that call for us to pull out of 
Iraq immediately, to those that demonstrate our presence there as part 
of a larger war, not against a nation, but against a movement, Islamic 
jihadis. They are everywhere and are responsible for attacks in India, 
Jordan, Israel, England, Egypt, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Russia, 
Spain, Turkey, the Gaza, Morocco, Pakistan and in the United States and 
Iraq.

Chairman Lantos wants to make sure that all sides are heard, that all 
possible alternatives are given an airing. But that is what is missing 
in the bill that the Democratic majority has given us this evening: it 
can't be amended. Can you imagine three days of debate without the 
opportunity to amend a bill? That implies the Democratic leadership 
believes they have a monopoly on truth and fear input from other 
Members of Congress.

The bill we are debating today condemns the infusion of up to 21,000 
more troops in Iraq. However, at a time when we should be excited about 
a new proposal calling for a major shift in our policy on Iraq, the 
bill we are debating condemns it. This proposal taps as its new leader 
Lieutenant General David Patraeus, who should be given an opportunity 
to succeed. Confirmed unanimously by the Senate, he has extensive 
knowledge of other wars and military conflicts and has resolved that 
America can achieve a favorable result in Iraq.

The new policy is a shift in the rules of engagement and calls upon 
the Iraqis themselves to step up in responsibility and achievement. A 
Washington Post story dated January 12 of this year with the byline, 
''Withdrawals could start if Iraq plan works: Gates,'' repeats the 
words of Secretary of Defense Robert Gates testifying before the Senate 
Armed Services Committee on January 11, Gates said: ''If these 
operations actually work, you can begin to see a lessening of the U.S. 
footprint both in Baghdad and Iraq itself. Then you could have a 
situation later this year where you could actually begin withdrawing.''

Isn't that what Americans want, a plan of action with a new focus, 
stabilizing Iraq and bringing our troops home? But that plan is not 
being debated today, and that is why I am going to vote against this 
resolution.

We live in extremely dangerous times. We know Iran is developing 
atomic weaponry. We also know that six other Arab nations are actively 
seeking atomic technology, according to the International Atomic Energy 
Agency. The stakes are onerous. That is why America's men and women in 
uniform not only deserve our support in the field, but also here in the 
House of Representatives, by allowing their opinions to be voiced 
through their Members of Congress. It is the least we can do for them.