# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `c20aac73a146a517d2cf5d77f743a5a8`
`Mr. GILCHREST — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. GILCHREST. Could I just very quickly, one second on the point 
that Mr. Lampson made. That's one thing that's critical for this 
debate.

In World War II, 25 percent of the soldiers had what was called shell 
shock. That's 25 percent. In the Vietnam War era it was the same. In 
this war, it is the same. Of the hundreds of thousands of young men and 
women that travel through Iraq, not on one tour or two tours, sometimes 
three and four tours, the kind of traumatic stress that they


experience is horrendous. It's not only the psychological stress; it's 
the number of young men and women coming back with concussions. And 
that debate needs to take place. That resolution to that problem cannot 
happen with the military alone. It has to happen with a dialogue here 
about how we send our forces into harm's way and how much time they 
need for that break back home.

And the other issue with the problem of traumatic stress, when you're 
in combat and you experience that, it can expose itself in the 
individual with serious depression. And are our soldiers in Iraq being 
treated when they have those symptoms of depression? Are they given 
medication? These are a lot of questions that need to be answered that 
haven't been, I think, addressed clearly enough from, I use the term, 
because of the partisan cacophony of chaos that has happened here for 
such a long period of time.