---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `c218cb747766d4727e269e9f22c372e6`
`Mr. ROSS — 30 October 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. The gentleman from Kansas (Mr. Moore) is the cochair of 
policy of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition.

As you can see, the 2007 Iraqi war funding, the total cost, $135.2 
billion; the cost per month, $11.3 billion; the cost per day, $370 
million. That's about $16 million an hour. I helped dedicate and break 
ground on interstate I-530, which someday will connect I-30 and I-40 in 
Little Rock through Pine Bluff to I-69 in southeast Arkansas, which 
could create a economic revival in one of the poorest regions of the 
country, the delta region.

In my speech in Pine Bluff yesterday I couldn't help but point out in 
the last transportation reauthorization bill there was about $6 billion 
for new interstate construction for all of America for the next 5 
years. That's about the amount we will spend in Iraq in the next 2 
weeks.

Don't get me wrong, let me make it very clear, as long as we have 
troops in harm's way, I am going to support them and make sure we 
support them as a Nation in providing them the very best that money can 
buy and the technology and the equipment they need to do their job as 
safely as possible and return home to their families. We have to ask 
ourselves at some point, $16 million an hour going to Iraq means $16 
million an hour we don't have to invest in our communities in America, 
that we don't have to invest in education and homeland security and 
veterans benefits, and the list is endless.

At some point, at some point we have to demand a new direction in 
Iraq and begin to invest in America again.

At this time, I would recognize our administrative cochair of the 
fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, and that's my good 
friend, Allen Boyd from Florida.