---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `c2235ec43cf3bba2e03c2955765811e8`
`Mr. CASTLE — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. CASTLE. Madam Speaker, I submit the following:

Name of Project: Replacement of C-130 Aircraft Maintenance Shops.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Delaware Air National Guard.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2600 Spruance Dr., Corporate Commons, 
New Castle, DE.

Account: ANG.

Project Description: $11.6 million for Replacement of C-130 Aircraft 
Maintenance Shops. The project is part of a multi-phased construction 
program to replace an aged hangar and shops, which support the 166th 
Airlift Wing's flying mission for its 8 C-130 aircraft. An improved 
aircraft maintenance facility will ensure a ready force that can meet 
both State and Federal requirements. Over 100 personnel will work and 
train in this facility. Funding for this project may be adjusted when 
the House considers the final spending package.

Name of Project: Reactive Plastic CO2 Absorbent Production 
Capacity.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Micropore, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 350F Pencader Drive, Newark, DE.

Account: DPA.

Project Description: $1.6 million for Reactive Plastic CO2 
Absorbent Production Capacity. The Department of Defense is working 
with Micropore to establish a domestic production capability for 
reactive plastic CO2 absorbent to ensure sufficient 
quantities are available to meet a wide range of military and national 
security needs and to bring the per unit cost down. Micropore produces 
an absorbent cartridge used by the Department of Defense in rebreathing 
and life support systems for military SCUBA, on submarines, in medical 
oxygen delivery, and for chemical and biological weapons protection. 
Funding for this project may be adjusted when the House considers the 
final spending package.

Name of Project: 2nd Generation Extended Cold Weather Clothing 
System.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: WL Gore & Associates.

Address of Requesting Entity: 551 Paper Mill Rd., Newark, DE.

Account: OM, ARNG.

Project Description: $3.2 million for 2nd Generation Extended Cold 
Weather Clothing System. The President's FY 09 Budget requested funding 
for the U.S. Army National Guard to purchase the Second Generation 
Extended Cold Weather Clothing System from W.L. Gore. This is a set of 
GORE-TEX' outerwear (parka, liner and trousers) designed 
specifically to provide protection during cold and/


or wet weather. By reducing personal discomfort during inclement 
weather conditions, these systems give the soldier the capability to 
operate at his or her most effective readiness level. Funding for this 
project may be adjusted when the House considers the final spending 
package.

Name of Project: Combat Desert Jacket.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: WL Gore & Associates.

Address of Requesting Entity: 551 Paper Mill Rd., Newark, DE.

Account: OM, MC.

Project Description: $4 million for Combat Desert Jacket. The 
President's FY 09 Budget requested funding for the U.S. Marines to 
purchase the Combat Desert Jacket from W.L. Gore. This is a 
lightweight, two layer barrier garment that is comfortable to wear 
during periods of prolonged activity. In need of a tough, resilient 
outer garment for use during combat operations in the demanding desert 
environment, the Marines worked with W.L. Gore to develop a highly 
effective jacket that provides exceptional protection across a wide 
spectrum of elements. The Marines are in a 5 year fielding plan to 
provide this garment to all Marines. Funding for this project may be 
adjusted when the House considers the final spending package.


Name of Project: Phoenix Quad-band Satellite Receiver.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Delaware Army National Guard.

Address of Requesting Entity: First Regiment Rd., Wilmington, DE.

Account: OP, A.

Project Description: $4 million for Phoenix Quad-band Satellite 
Receiver. The Delaware Army National Guard's 261st Signal Brigade has 
requested funds to purchase a mobile satellite communications receiver 
to provide high data rate exchanges between various satellites and 
ground communications systems in secure digital formats. This system 
will improve the Delaware Guard's domestic support and combat 
capability, while maintaining critical communication interoperability 
between the Guard and Active Component Army signal units. Funding for 
this project may be adjusted when the House considers the final 
spending package.

Name of Project: UD Center for Composite Materials Projects.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of Delaware.

Address of Requesting Entity: 107 Hullihen Hall, Newark, DE.

Account: RDTE, A / RDTE, N.

Project Description: $9 million (4 separate projects) for UD Center 
for Composite Materials. The Department of Defense has asked the 
University of Delaware's Center for Composite Materials to develop 
ultra-lightweight, durable armor to protect soldiers against mine 
blast, ballistic, IED and EFP threats. Current metallic armor for 
combat and tactical vehicle protection is too heavy and is rapidly 
wearing out vehicles with maintenance and replacement costs estimated 
in the billions. The University of Delaware's modeling and simulation 
of composite armor is essential to accelerate the insertion of new 
composite solutions into the battlefield. Funding for this project may 
be adjusted when the House considers the final spending package.

Name of Project: Garment-Based Physiological Monitoring Systems.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Textronics Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 3825 Lancaster Pike, Suite 201, 
Wilmington, DE

Account: RDTE, A.

Project Description: $1.6 million for Garment-Based Physiological 
Monitoring Systems. The U.S. Army is working with Textronics to develop 
a new generation of wearable physiological monitoring systems that will 
enable the accurate and real-time remote monitoring of a U.S. soldier's 
heart rate, respiration, and other physiological parameters. These 
systems will integrate technology improvements that work under 
prolonged harsh conditions to satisfy the expressed needs and 
preferences of the troops. The project will help the military improve 
the safety, security, health, well-being, and performance of U.S. 
soldiers. Funding for this project may be adjusted when the House 
considers the final spending package.

Name of Project: Optimized M-25 Soldier Fuel Cell System.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DuPont Fuel Cells.

Address of Requesting Entity: Chestnut Run Plaza, P.O. Box 80701, 
Wilmington, DE.

Account: RDTE, A.

Project Description: $2 million for Optimized M-25 Soldier Fuel Cell 
System. The U.S. Army has asked DuPont to develop a lightweight and 
reliable individual power source for U.S. soldiers operating in combat. 
Currently, U.S. soldiers carry heavy batteries to charge individual 
equipment, including communications equipment. DuPont's Soldier Fuel 
Cell System will be smaller, more durable, more economical, and last up 
to 10 times longer than today's batteries. It will provide new on-
soldier and standalone charging capability, reducing the overall load 
carried by soldiers for military operations. Funding for this project 
may be adjusted when the House considers the final spending package.


Name of Project: Vectored Thrust Ducted Propeller (VTDP) Compound 
Helicopter Advanced Technology Flight Demonstration Program.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Piasecki Aircraft Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2nd Street West, P.O. Box 360, 
Essington, PA.

Account: RDTE, A.

Project Description: $5 million for Vectored Thrust Ducted Propeller 
(VTDP) Compound Helicopter Advanced Technology Flight Demonstration 
Program. The U.S. Army has asked Piasecki Aircraft to increase the 
rotorcraft speed, range, and survivability of the Vectored Thrust 
Ducted Propeller Compound Helicopter. The flight testing, which will be 
conducted at New Castle County Airport, is being initiated to expand 
the helicopter's air assault and combat logistics support capabilities 
at higher altitudes. This development will allow for improved 
reliability and rapid MEDEVAC of victims from combat to critical care 
facilities. Combat experience in Afghanistan and Iraq has highlighted 
the need for these capabilities. Funding for this project may be 
adjusted when the House considers the final spending package.

Name of Project: Joint Services Aircrew Mask (JSAM) Don/Doff Inflight 
Upgrade.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: ILC Dover LP.

Address of Requesting Entity: 1 Moonwalker Road, Frederica, DE.

Account: RDTE, DW.

Project Description: $1.6 million for Joint Services Aircrew Mask 
(JSAM) Don/Doff Inflight Upgrade. The Department of Defense has asked 
ILC Dover to develop an aircrew mask that provides above the neck 
Chemical-Biological and Anti-G protection to aircrew personnel. This 
product will enhance soldiers' ability to survive in the case of 
chemical or biological weapons attacks and it will allow aircrews to be 
at a state of high level Chemical-Biological threat preparedness for 
extended periods, both on the ground and in the air. Funding for this 
project may be adjusted when the House considers the final spending 
package.

Name of Project: NIDS Improved Handheld Biological Agent Detector.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: ANP Technologies, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 824 Interchange Blvd., Newark, DE.

Account: RDTE, DW.

Project Description: $1.6 million for NIDS Improved Handheld 
Biological Agent Detector. The U.S. Army and the U.S. Marine Corps have 
asked ANP Technologies to develop a light, reliable, and easy-to-use 
handheld tool for soldiers in the battlefield to test for biological 
weapons. The handheld detector will be water sealed, have an explosion 
free battery compartment, dual rechargeable/disposable battery options, 
and wireless connection capabilities. This system will be better able 
to protect U.S. soldiers serving in combat and the American people in 
the homeland in case of biological warfare agent attacks, at lower 
costs. Funding for this project may be adjusted when the House 
considers the final spending package.

Name of Project: Army Plant Vaccine Development Program.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Fraunhofer USA Center for Molecular 
Biotechnology.

Address of Requesting Entity: 9 Innovation Way, Suite 200, Newark, 
DE.

Account: RDTE, DW.

Project Description: $1.6 million for Army Plant Vaccine Development 
Program. The Department of Defense's Defense Threat Reduction Agency is 
working with Fraunhofer USA in


Newark to develop a combined multivalent one-shot vaccine that protects 
the Armed Forces and civilian communities against plague and anthrax. A 
quick response to a potential bioterrorist attack requires the 
immediate availability of reagents for mass therapeutic treatment or 
for mass vaccination. Fraunhofer USA's system has shown to be highly 
efficient and flexible for the rapid, large-scale production of a wide 
variety of vaccine antigens and other recombinant proteins, and has the 
potential to provide a quick response in providing massive amounts of 
reagents in a short period of time. Funding for this project may be 
adjusted when the House considers the final spending package.


Name of Project: Integrated Warfighter Biodefense Program.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Quantum Leap Innovations, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 3 Innovation Way, Suite 100, Newark, 
DE.

Account: RDTE, N.

Project Description: $3 million for Integrated Warfighter Biodefense 
Program. The U.S. Navy is working with Quantum Leap Innovations to 
develop technologies to protect sailors and marines from asymmetric 
threats such as biological weapons attacks and pandemic influenza. This 
project will develop solutions for the Navy to monitor these emergent 
threats and provide early detection and casualty reduction for U.S. 
forces. Funding for this project may be adjusted when the House 
considers the final spending package.

Name of Project: Millimeter Wave Imaging.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of Delaware.

Address of Requesting Entity: 107 Hullihen Hall, Newark, DE.

Account: RDTE, N.

Project Description: $1.6 million for Millimeter Wave Imaging. The 
U.S. Navy's Office of Naval Research is working with the University of 
Delaware to develop a millimeter wave imaging system based on the use 
of visible wavelength lasers. Through this project, the Navy is 
developing depleted aperture imaging systems that are based on up-
converting millimeter wave signals to optical signals for the purposes 
of imaging. From a national defense perspective, the applications of 
the University's millimeter wave imaging system are far-reaching in 
that U.S. soldiers will be able to image behind bunkers and through 
dust, fog, and sandstorms, thus improving their situational awareness 
in combat. Funding for this project may be adjusted when the House 
considers the final spending package.

Name of Project: High Power Voice and Siren System in the boundaries 
of the city of Newark.

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: City of Newark, DE.

Address of Requesting Entity: 220 Elkton Rd., P.O. Box 0390, Newark, 
DE.

Account: FEMA Predisaster Mitigation.

Project Description: $300,000 for High Power Voice and Siren System 
in the boundaries of the city of Newark. The project is part of the 
FEMA pre-disaster mitigation program, and the goal is to implement an 
effective option for warning the public of threatening situations 
including attacks and dangerous weather. The system will provide an 
initial alert followed by a detailed message that will serve to reduce 
confusion and panic and assist in saving lives and restoring order. 
Funding for this project may be adjusted when the House considers the 
final spending package.
