---
---

# COMMEMORATING THE 58TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE START OF THE KOREAN WAR
## `c235cbf91b1ba5ba23e34d876404ea87`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I rise tonight to honor the 
bravery and courage of American and Korean servicemen; and to celebrate 
the bonds of friendship between our two great countries. Fifty-eight 
years ago yesterday, forces from Communist North Korea launched an 
unprovoked invasion of their neighbors to the south, initiating what we 
now remember as the Korean War.

Over the course of the following three years, millions of people were 
killed, wounded or forced from their homes and many more captured by 
the enemy. American troops of all colors and backgrounds gave their 
lives for freedom alongside thousands of Koreans. But ''The Forgotten 
War,'' as it is too often called because it was sandwiched between 
World War II and Vietnam, was necessary to stem the Communist tide in 
Asia and preserve the spirit of freedom for millions on the Korean 
Peninsula.

The battle for Korea likely spared Japan from the threat of Communist 
invasion and showed the Communist world that the United States and its 
allies were prepared to vigorously resist Communist aggression. America 
and South Korea paid a dear price in blood and treasure but those who 
fell contributed much to the better world the people of South Korea 
enjoy today.

Since the end of the War in 1953, South Korea has grown both 
economically and politically and has led as an example of democracy in 
East Asia, demonstrating our shared values of democratic governance, 
free enterprise and the rule of law. South Korea is a strong, 
unwavering ally in the U.S.-led Global War on Terror, having dispatched 
the third largest contingent of troops to Iraq, and to Afghanistan 
(where a South Korean soldier was killed during hostile action), and to 
Lebanon in support of peacekeeing operations there. In fact, South 
Korea has been one of only four partners and allies that stood with us 
through all four major conflicts since World War II. In addition, South 
Korea demonstrated her great friendship and generosity in the aftermath 
of Hurricane Katrina, pledging over $30 million in aid for relief and 
recovery efforts--the fourth largest amount donated by any foreign 
country.

In contrast, Communist North Korea is in dire straits, unable to even 
feed its people. Like the struggles we see today in the newly liberated 
countries of Iraq and Afghanistan, when people have the freedom and 
will to determine their own fate, they will embrace democracy and 
freedom and the right of self-determination.

I firmly believe that South Korea may be the premier success story of 
U.S. foreign policy in the post-World War II period. Having assisted 
South Korea in transforming itself from a war-torn, impoverished 
economy into a successful democracy with a free enterprise economy (the 
world's 11th largest), South Korea is now an indispensable partner with 
the United States in promoting democracy, a free market economy and 
respect for the rule of law around the world. Our economic relationship 
with South Korea is crucial as the seventh-largest trading partner with 
the United States. And almost sixty years later, the relationship 
between the United States and South Korea continues to be a very 
special one that builds upon a foundation of a friendship first laid in 
the 1882 Korean American Treaty of Peace, Amity, Commerce and 
Navigation.

Unfortunately Madam Speaker, there is a question mark hanging over 
our relationship with South Korea. Monday, June 30, 2008, will mark the 
one year anniversary since representatives from our two governments 
signed the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement here in Washington. If 
implemented, this agreement could potentially be the most commercially-
significant free trade agreement signed by the United States in more 
than a decade. How we dispose of that Agreement will determine whether 
we are serious about enhancing the strong partnership between our two 
great democratic nations, and willing to open the door wider to the 
exchange of science and ideas that help us both to prosper.

South Korea is already the United States' seventh largest export 
market and sixth largest market for U.S. agricultural products. In 
fact, according to the latest statistics, our annual bilateral trade 
totals nearly $80 billion. Koreans have invested nearly $20 billion in 
the United States, and have created American jobs through companies 
like Hyundai Motors, Samsung Electronics, and Kia Motors.

As the largest investor in Korea, the United States already has a 
leading presence in that country. Any agreement that can open up more 
Korean markets to U.S. goods and services can only have a positive 
effect on the American economy by creating more and better jobs, 
enriching consumer choice, and boosting U.S. industry and 
manufacturing.

But this FTA is more then simply a debate over economics; it is also 
recognition of our special relationship with South Korea and a strong 
statement that we will continue to stand with our allies, especially as 
we face continued uncertainty in regards to the nuclear ambitions of 
North Korea.

No agreement or treaty is ever perfect, as it is always a product of 
compromise. And I agree that Congress has a legitimate right to debate 
the merits of the agreement; so let's have that debate; let's take this 
agreement out of legislative limbo, bring it to the House Floor, have 
an honest up or down vote, and let the chips fall where they may, Madam 
Speaker. I think we owe our South Korean friends that much respect.



On the occasion of these twin anniversaries--the somber but proud 
commemoration of the beginning of the Korean War, and the forward-
looking commemoration of the signing of the U.S.-Korea Free Trade 
Agreement--I ask my colleagues to join with me to salute our veterans 
and to celebrate the strong and enduring friendship and alliance 
between the good people of the Republic of Korea and the United States.
