# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `c237de145aad12243d62dc1e8a2a8c69`
`Mr. CAMP — 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. CAMP. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

I strongly oppose H.R. 1886, in particular, language inserted at the 
Rules Committee to create a new, but poorly designed, trade preference 
program for Afghanistan and Pakistan.

While I would support a well-designed program to create jobs and spur 
economic development, this legislation is deeply flawed. First, it 
brings virtually no economic benefit because the product mix is 
stingy--an economic fig leaf that should fool no one.

My second objection is even more fundamental. While the bill is light 
on commercial benefits, it is heavy on intrusive, impractical labor 
requirements that could exceed U.S. law. Now, I very much support 
improving labor conditions; but these new, unnecessarily onerous labor 
criteria would impede investment and won't improve labor conditions.

Specifically, this legislation requires the Secretary of Labor to 
designate any entity to conduct firm-level inspections in Afghanistan 
and Pakistan to ensure compliance with ''core labor standards,'' even 
an NGO hostile to trade. This vague language subjects firms to 
arbitrary standards that could exceed U.S. law--I repeat, that could 
exceed U.S. law. Given the dire security situation there, having 
inspectors go from door to door, even cottage to cottage, to enforce 
such standards strains credibility.

Moreover, this standard exceeds the labor provisions in other 
preference programs and even our trade agreements negotiated under the 
bipartisan May 10 standard for FTAs both lauded by the Speaker and 
Chairman Rangel. It could be viewed as a precedent to justify the 
inclusion of similar language, not only in new trade agreements, but 
perhaps even in efforts to revise existing ones, which would, of 
course, apply to us as well, leaving the United States vulnerable to 
challenges that our labor laws don't meet this standard.

I am also concerned about the pay-for. For every dollar of duty 
relief that reconstruction opportunity zone exports from these 
countries receive, other Pakistani and Afghan exports have to pay at 
least that amount in increased fees, making these countries potentially 
worse off than they are right now.

Lastly, I am disappointed that this is my first opportunity to 
explain my concerns. This bill was not even considered by the Ways and 
Means Committee, which, again, it's not about the committee but again 
this denies the American people their voice. This is not the return to 
regular order we were promised by the Speaker. And I fear this is not 
the last time this month I will be on the floor raising that concern.

The provision also subverts the prerogatives out of the House by 
turning an aid bill into a revenue measure, ripe for mischief when it 
gets to the other side of the Capitol.

Because of all of this, I strongly oppose the legislation in its 
current form. I urge my colleagues to vote against the measure.