# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `c23aa7ebc59aff5921aa85f588bf5cc5`
`Mr. DENT — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. DENT. Again, I applaud you for your leadership on this issue. You 
are absolutely right, the Jones Commission really did give your 
legislation, without saying it, a very strong endorsement.



I think you pointed out another issue that I think we can all agree 
on about this issue of permanent bases. We have voted before against 
permanent bases, and your status of forces agreement, I think, really 
does provide the right answer to the question of permanent bases.

I would also point out too that should not be an open-ended commit in 
Iraq as has been reported and stated in the Iraq Study Group report.

Finally, I think there is another area where most of us degree in 
this Chamber, that what we want in this country is we want to make sure 
that we pursue our national interest as it relates to Iraq.

I think most of us realize that we cannot allow al Qaeda to have a 
base from which to operate in Iraq. I think that's something on which 
Republicans and Democrats can agree. I think we also agree that we 
cannot allow Iraq to become a failed state, that is, it becomes a 
threat to itself and to the region.

The third point I want to make on this, I think it's a very 
significant point, and perhaps we don't state it enough, and I think 
you will get a sense of this issue, if you have ever attended the 
funeral of someone who was killed in Iraq, as I know we all have, and I 
have families in my district, and Paris and Rush that have lost family 
members in recent months, and the issue really deals with honoring the 
service and sacrifice of our people who have invested so much or in 
some cases, as Abraham Lincoln said, gave that last full measure of 
devotion.

I have had numerous conversations, for example, with Secretary of 
Defense Bob Gates, and I know some of you have as well. We talk about 
these types of issues that, regardless of how one feels about the run 
up to this war, or how it has been executed, and the mistakes have been 
made along the way, critics of this administration, for example, have 
said they do not listen to many of the generals going into Iraq.

But I think it's very important that we do listen to generals as we 
transition down and go out of Iraq. I think that's critically important 
that we do this, and as we transition, that we remember the service and 
the sacrifice, remember our national interest, which is making sure al 
Qaeda has no base from which to operate and that we do not leave a 
failed state in our wake.

I just wanted to share those thoughts with you and, again, applaud 
you. I hope that your bill is one of those bipartisan bills that we 
will be able to bring to this floor for consideration, just as we did 
with the Tanner-Abercrombie-English bill today, which was a good start. 
I think we saw a broad consensus in this House that supported that 
legislation, and I think that's good for all of us.

Again, I would just applaud you for your work on the status of forces 
agreement.