---
---

# None
## `c23f75cdc984f6354748ebe9b252e607`
`Mr. KIRK — 14 December 2010`

---


Mr. KIRK. Madam President, almost 30 years ago, I worked in the House 
of Commons in London. In Parliament, a new member's maiden speech is 
given great weight. Traditionally, this speech is used to highlight 
what a member's priorities are and sets the tone for his tenure. My 
experience in London guided my thoughts 10 years ago when I was elected 
to the House of Representatives. My maiden speech focused on the unique 
political history of the 10th Congressional District of Illinois and 
its tradition of electing thoughtful, independent leaders.

As I stand here today, newly elected by the people of Illinois to 
represent their interests in the U.S. Senate, I recall my first speech 
in the House and how humbled I was to follow such a distinguished group 
of men and women in office. I am equally humbled as I assume the office 
of United States Senator from Illinois.

Since our admission to the Union in 1818, Illinois has sent a diverse 
list of Senators to this Chamber. Many of my predecessors served in 
uniform valiantly, others had brilliant legal careers, while still 
others excelled in international diplomacy. As I take office, I want to 
reflect on those who represented Illinois in the Senate before me, 
their accomplishments, and the imprint they left on our great Nation.

One name hangs above all others. He never served in the Senate but 
ran for the office in 1858. Abraham Lincoln was defeated in that 
election but won the Nation's support for a higher office during the 
Lincoln-Douglas debates. His story also reminds the Republican and 
Democratic opponents of the current Members of the Senate that their 
best days in public life may still be ahead.

With regard to our Senators, one of the first was Ninian Edwards, a 
pioneer at a time when Illinois was actually the frontier. First 
elected in 1818, he served until 1824, when he stepped down to become 
the United States' Minister to Mexico. He had the distinction of being 
the Governor of both the territory and State of Illinois. A true 
servant of the people, he died in 1833, while he helped treat victims 
of a cholera epidemic carried by soldiers serving in the Black Hawk 
War.

Senator James Shields reminded us that we are a State and Nation of 
immigrants. Born in Ireland, he became a naturalized citizen in 1840. 
He served in the Mexican-American war under General Zachary Taylor, 
commanding a brigade in the battles of Vera Cruz, Cerro Gordo, 
Contreras, Churubusco, and Chapultepec.

Already one of America's leading Irish-Americans, Brigadier General 
Shields would later command a division during the Civil War, taking his 
men against Stonewall Jackson in the Valley Campaign of 1862. He was 
twice elected to the Senate in 1849--first in March, and again in 
October. But his first election was voided on the grounds that he had 
not yet been a U.S. citizen for the required 9 years. Eight months 
later, he won election again and finally was seated. Senator Shields is 
the only Member of this body to have served in the Senate from three 
States--in addition to Illinois, he was elected in Minnesota and 
Missouri.

Senator Shields also nearly changed the course of our Nation. In 
1842, a young Abraham Lincoln wrote an anonymous letter to the Sangamon 
Journal criticizing then State Auditor Shields for his decision to 
require the payment of taxes in silver or gold. When Lincoln's future 
wife, Mary Todd, and her friend got into the act by writing additional 
missives, Shields


asked the editor to reveal the identity of the letter writers. When 
Lincoln claimed responsibility for all the letters, Shields demanded 
satisfaction and challenged Lincoln to a duel.

Lincoln chose broadswords as the weapon of choice, and the two made 
plans to travel to Missouri as dueling in Illinois was illegal at the 
time. Luckily, cooler heads prevailed and the duel was called off, 
averting a potentially history-changing event.

Serving from 1847 to 1861, Democratic Senator Stephen Douglas was 
known as the ''little giant'' due to his short stature but powerful 
hold on the Senate. While accomplished, he was overshadowed by Lincoln 
despite Lincoln's loss to Douglas in the 1858 Senate election. Douglas 
served as the architect of the Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854 that 
repealed the Missouri Compromise, allowing settlers in Kansas and 
Nebraska to determine whether or not they would allow slavery. 
Douglas's reputation waned in later years as he led the Democratic 
Party to defeat in the election of 1860 by defending slavery in the 
southern States. His miscalculation dealt a blow to the ruling 
Democrats, allowing the new antislavery Republican Party to win the 
White House.

Another Illinois Senator, David Davis, holds a unique distinction, 
having served as an Associate Justice on the U.S. Supreme Court prior 
to his Senate service. In his nearly 15 years on the Court, Davis is 
best known for writing the decision in Ex Parte Milligan, holding that 
a death sentence handed down by a Civil War military commission against 
a civilian was unconstitutional, as civilian courts were functioning at 
the time.

The Illinois Legislature elected Davis to the Senate in the midst of 
the disputed 1876 presidential election between Rutherford B. Hayes and 
Samuel Tilden. Because of his service on the Supreme Court and his long 
reputation for fierce independence, Senator Davis was elected President 
pro tempore of the Senate following the assassination of President 
Garfield. Under the law at the time, this placed him next in the line 
of succession to President Chester A. Arthur, even though he was a 
freshman Senator.

One of our greatest Senators was the ''man from Pekin,'' Senator 
Everett McKinley Dirksen, who served for nearly 20 years in the middle 
of the 20th Century. His leadership was apparent early in his life. 
During the First World War, he entered service in the field artillery 
as a private and left a second lieutenant. While in the Senate, he 
worked his way to lead his party as Minority Leader and developed a 
reputation as a pragmatic, thoughtful legislator. He is perhaps best 
known for his role in passing the Civil Rights Act of 1964. It was 
Dirksen who said on the floor of the Senate:




 The time has come for equality of opportunity in sharing of 


 government, in education and in employment. It must not be 


 stayed or denied. It is here!


It was Dirksen who helped gather the votes for cloture on the ground-
breaking legislation, ending the longest filibuster in Senate history 
at 534 hours, 1 minute, and 51 seconds.

If there is one of our Illinois Senators whose spirit hangs closest 
to me as I begin my service here, it is Dirksen's. Senator Dirksen's 
reputation as a fiscal conservative and a social moderate is one I hope 
to follow in my service in the Senate. He died after a bout with cancer 
in 1969, but his legacy lives on. One of the three Senate office 
buildings bears his name, as well as Chicago's federal courthouse.

Senator Charles Percy entered the Senate in 1967, serving alongside 
Senator Dirksen for 2 years. He was a ''Rockefeller Republican,'' 
representing the moderate wing of the Republican Party in the Senate 
and went on to chair the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. In 
addition to his work on foreign relations, he worked on legislation to 
provide home ownership to low-income families. Senator Percy and I also 
share a similar background. Both he and I are graduates of New Trier 
High School in Winnetka, IL, and we also both served in the United 
States Navy.

Senator Percy's greatest legacy for Illinois was his work to 
eliminate the corrupt practice of nominating Federal judges from the 
Chicago political machine. I wish to follow in Percy's footsteps, by 
ensuring all judicial nominations go through a rigorous advisory 
process.

Alan Dixon served Illinois in the Senate from 1981 to 1993, but 
before he came to Washington, he served in both the Illinois House and 
Senate, and later won statewide elections for treasurer and secretary 
of state. He earned a reputation as a thoughtful, moderate Senator who 
served the people of Illinois with a quiet dedication. After leaving 
the Senate, he went on to chair the Defense Base Realignment and 
Closure Commission in 1994 and 1995.

Born in Eugene, OR, Senator Paul Simon served from 1985-1997 as a 
staunch fiscal ''pay-as-you-go'' Democrat. Simon worked with Senator 
Orrin Hatch of Utah on a balanced budget amendment that, although 
unsuccessful at the time, deserves renewed attention now in light of 
our crippling Federal debt. Although he did not win the Democratic 
presidential nomination in 1988, his greatest legacy will be the 
creation of the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute at Southern Illinois 
University where he served as director until his death in 2003 
following heart surgery.

Senator Carol Moseley Braun is a true daughter of Chicago. She was 
born in the city, attended Chicago public schools, and received degrees 
from the University of Illinois at Chicago and the University of 
Chicago. She remains today the only African-American woman to serve in 
the Senate. After she left the Senate she served as Ambassador to New 
Zealand, and she remains committed to public service, as she is 
currently running for Mayor of Chicago.

Senator Peter Fitzgerald came to Washington 2 years before I began 
service in the House. I was honored to serve in the Illinois delegation 
with him for 4 years. When I took the oath of office here in the 
Senate, it was with Senator Fitzgerald and Senator Durbin at my side, 
recognizing that leadership for our State requires a firm commitment to 
bipartisanship. Senator Fitzgerald was born in Elgin and raised in 
Inverness. He represented the northwest suburbs in the Illinois State 
Senate before his election to the U.S. Senate. Senator Fitzgerald's 
legacy in Illinois will forever be remembered for bringing one of our 
Nation's most dedicated crime fighters to our State. Senator Fitzgerald 
is the reason why the Northern District of Illinois is home to one of 
the best prosecutors in America, U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald. 
Patrick Fitzgerald, who is of no relation to the Senator, has done more 
to fight public corruption in our State than any other person. Senator 
Peter Fitzgerald fought a tough battle to recruit and appoint Patrick 
Fitzgerald. Before his arrival, Illinois was the wild west of politics, 
and one of the most corrupt in the Nation. Under his tenure, U.S. 
Attorney Fitzgerald convicted two Governors of corruption and countless 
other State and local officials. We will forever live with the 
embarrassment of convicted criminals like Governor Blagojevich, but 
with the leadership of Senator Peter Fitzgerald, we found the right 
prosecutor to slowly restore integrity and honesty to our State.

Now I have spoken about the past greats who have represented Illinois 
in the Senate, but our recent Senators have been champions in their own 
rights. I am honored to call Senator Dick Durbin my colleague, and 
while we hail from different parties, we have pledged to work closely 
on issues that will benefit the people of our State. He, like me, came 
to this body from the House and quickly became known as a champion of 
infrastructure improvements, including the critical O'Hare 
Modernization Program and mass transit. His knowledge of the process of 
government is unmatched, and he is quick to tell tales of his time as 
the parliamentarian for the Illinois General Assembly. His father died 
of lung cancer when he was 14, and he has since fought tirelessly to 
protect kids from tobacco. We fly in smoke-free airlines because of 
Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois.

Recognizing his leadership, his caucus has voted to make him majority 
whip the past 4 years, one of the few Senators from Illinois to hold 
such a position of distinction.

This brings me to perhaps one of the best-known Senators, and the man 
whose term I complete--Barack Obama. The first time I had heard of now-
President Obama was in Springfield, IL, in 2000.



I was filing petitions to run for my first term in the House, and in 
front of me in line was a young staffer who worked for a State senator 
from Chicago who was running for Congress. It is highly ironic that I 
won my election that year, as state senator Obama lost his, but 10 
years later Illinois had its favorite son in the White House.

Despite the media spotlight upon him, then-Senator Obama sought out a 
low initial profile in the Senate and worked with Senator Durbin and 
the rest of our congressional delegation to quietly advance some 
projects. While his tenure in this body was brief, he and I 
successfully worked together to secure Federal school funding for 
military families in north Chicago, IL, fulfilling an important promise 
to take care of those who take care of us. In 2008, Barack Obama was 
elected the first African-American President of the United States, 
creating a vacancy that was filled by Roland Burris. It was the 
greatest honor of my life to win election to both Senator Obama's 
unexpired term and a full six-year term.

As I enter the Senate and open a new chapter in the rich history of 
this body, I stand before you a fiscal conservative, a social moderate, 
and a national security hawk.

I bring a commitment to fiscal responsibility, spending restraint, 
lower taxes, tolerance, a strong national defense, and, above all, 
thoughtful, independent leadership.

Today, we face great challenges both here and abroad.

Here at home, runaway spending and unsustainable borrowing threaten 
the future of our economy. Unemployment remains high, economic growth 
slow, and small business employers are crippled by the tax and 
regulation decisions of an ever-growing government.

As we look abroad, our challenges are no less complex.

We remain a nation at war with a terrorist enemy that seeks our 
destruction.

As America winds down our mission in Iraq, our mission in Afghanistan 
grows more challenging by the day.

Iran continues its pursuit of nuclear weapons, as terrorists in Gaza 
and Lebanon threaten the security of our strongest ally in the Middle 
East.

At home and abroad, our country faces threats from Iran, North Korea, 
and a number of terrorist cells based in Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia, and 
elsewhere.

In times of great uncertainty, we need to come together--Republicans, 
Democrats, and Independents--to build consensus, find solutions, and 
meaningfully improve the lives of the people we represent.

In that spirit, I look forward to working with our senior Senator, 
Senator Durbin, to complete the O'Hare Modernization Project, ban 
sewage dumping in the Great Lakes, and expand high-speed rail across 
Illinois. From Rockford to Cairo, we will work to expand employment and 
opportunity wherever possible--always seeking practical, bipartisan 
solutions to the everyday challenges facing families across Illinois. I 
am confident we can build a bipartisan, pro-Illinois agenda that 
delivers for our State.

Ninian Edwards, James Shields, Stephen Douglas, David Davis, Everett 
Dirksen, Charles Percy, Alan Dixon, Paul Simon, Carol Moseley Braun, 
Peter Fitzgerald, Roland Burris, and Barack Obama--I enter this Chamber 
with all humility, and with the knowledge of those who came before us. 
They fought for a better future for the next generation, as we shall 
fight for those who follow.

I yield the floor.