---
---

# ZACHARY SMITH POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `c24a8acb74c2fc314b6c2228f4986815`
`Mr. McCOTTER — 11 May 2010`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise today in support of H.R. 5051, designating the United States 
Postal Service building located at 23 Genesee Street in Hornell, New 
York, as the Zachary Smith Post Office Building. Funny. Dedicated. 
Hardworking. These are but a few of the words of praise that arise when 
friends and family speak of the memory of Lance Corporal Zachary Smith.

Zachary Smith, a native of Hornell, New York, was born on April 2, 
1990. A graduate of Hornell High School, he loved sports and played on 
the football and golf teams. After graduation, Zach followed his 
lifelong dream of serving our country and enlisted in the United States 
Marine Corps. He was assigned to the 2nd Platoon, C Company, 1st 
Battalion, 6th Marines, and deployed to Afghanistan on December 17, 
2009. Tragically, after only serving in Afghanistan for 1 month, he 
gave the ultimate sacrifice for our country in combat on January 24, in 
the Helmand province. Zach was only 19 years old.

Described by his childhood friend as someone who always lifted 
everyone's spirits, Zach served his family, community, and country with 
selfless devotion. He leaves behind his wife, Anne Smith; parents, 
Chris and Kim Smith; brother, Nate; and sister, Grace. I rise today in 
honor not only of a tremendous patriot but an outstanding citizen.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution in honor of a valiant 
life that should not, and will not, soon be forgotten by a grateful 
Nation.

I yield back the balance of my time.