---
---

# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `c255857b979d5f0f75eaf53daef33aa1`
`Mr. LAMPSON — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. LAMPSON. Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to join Mr. Israel and all 
of my colleagues tonight for something that is special. I want to first 
start out by telling our colleagues and the Speaker and others that 
even though there is a tradition that typically a Democrat will speak 
from one side of the well, and the Republicans the other, tonight is 
not about where we will sit or stand in this room. It is more about 
where we will sit or stand in relation to the needs of the people of 
the United States of America.

The Center Aisle Caucus is an organization of Members of Congress who 
are indeed going to look for ways to move issues forward that can make 
a difference for our families, our communities, and our States and 
Nation.

My involvement with this began actually on a trip, I guess, with Mr. 
Gilchrest some years back; and then when I returned to Congress after 
what I found to be some very difficult times where camaraderie broke 
down and it was very difficult for us to feel comfortable working with 
each other and discussing difficult issues, where oftentimes it did 
break down into the partisan bickering and the screaming and shouting 
and little getting resolved, to the point where we gathered some of our 
colleagues to sit down and have coffee and ask: What can we do and do 
differently? What can we do to begin to get our friends to come and sit 
down with each other and talk about these issues respectfully, talk 
about them in the depth that I believe our constituents all expect us 
to be talking about, and find the acceptable solutions to the very 
difficult, difficult issues that face us in this Nation, and they are.

You said it, Mr. Israel. Politics are suffocating the debate on Iraq 
in nearly every issue that we have faced in this Congress. If we can't 
come together and work honestly to find compromise on a critical issue 
like Iraq, what can we expect for other issues that are facing us?

We can't allow for progress to be stymied by partisan politics and 
vitriol. We must not let any political organization or campaign detract 
for the purpose we are all here for, which is to work on behalf of our 
constituents for the good of our country. What is needed now is 
thoughtful debate that considers Republican and Democratic ideas. We 
are getting there. That is what tonight is going to be the beginning 
of, I believe, and I look forward to a wonderful relationship with all 
of the friends that we are going to make in carrying all of this 
forward.

We owe it to our troops abroad, to our children in need of health 
care, to our students, the hardworking taxpayers and the people that we 
represent to work together to provide a new direction for America. I 
believe that the Center Aisle Caucus is an organization within our 
Congress that is going to be able to help pull that together.

It is wrong for any party to think that they are solely right or 
wrong, and I am proud to be able to join those of our colleagues who 
have been willing to step forward, come to the middle and begin this 
debate.

I will yield back, but I would like very much to speak again in 
another few minutes as we go through this process this evening.

