# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c258286fe2b5e843136e3e742e1b8169`
`Ms. PELOSI — 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman for 
yielding and the solemnity with which he introduced this debate.

My colleagues, in a few weeks the war in Iraq will enter its fifth 
year, causing thousands of deaths, tens of thousands of casualties, 
costing hundreds of billions of dollars, and damaging the standing of 
the United States in the international community. And there is no end 
in sight.

The American people have lost faith in President Bush's course of 
action in Iraq, and they are demanding a new direction.

On January 10, President Bush proposed deploying more than 20,000 
additional combat troops to Iraq. This week we will debate his 
escalation.

In doing so, we must be mindful of the sacrifices our military 
personnel are being asked to make in this war and the toll it is taking 
on them, on their families, and on our veterans. Each one of us must 
determine, in a


manner worthy of their sacrifice, whether the President's proposal will 
make America safer, make our military stronger, and make the region 
more stable.

As this debate begins, let us be clear on one fundamental principle: 
we all support the troops.

In this bipartisan resolution that is before us today, it clearly 
states: ''Congress and the American people will continue to support and 
protect the members of the United States Armed Forces who are serving 
or who have served bravely and honorably in Iraq.'' We honor the 
service of our troops by asking the difficult questions about this war. 
As Republican Senator Robert Taft of Ohio said 2 weeks after Pearl 
Harbor: ''Criticism in a time of war is essential to the maintenance of 
any democratic government.''

And just 10 days ago, President Bush told House Democrats: ''I 
welcome debate in a time of war . . . I do not believe that if you 
don't happen to agree with me, you don't share the same sense of 
patriotism I do,'' the President said.

In the spirit of responsibility to our troops and the patriotism we 
all share, let us consider whether the President's escalation proposal 
will lessen the violence in Iraq and bring our troops home safely and 
soon.

From the standpoint of the military, the President's plan must be 
evaluated for its prospects for success. It is based on a judgment that 
the way out of Iraq lies in sending more troops in. Our experience in 
Iraq has proven just the opposite. Four previous troop escalations have 
resulted in escalating levels of violence.

And as with any military action, the President's plan must also be 
evaluated on the additional burdens it will place on our troops and 
military families who have already sacrificed so much, the impact it 
will have on the already dangerous state of our military readiness.

Our military has done everything they have been asked to do, and they 
have performed excellently. But in order to succeed in Iraq, there must 
be diplomatic and political initiatives.

There has been no sustained and effective effort to engage Iraq's 
neighbors diplomatically, and there has been no sustained and effective 
effort to engage Iraqi factions politically. The Iraqi Government has 
failed to honor promises made last year when the constitution was 
adopted by failing to propose amendments to include all sectors of Iraq 
in the civic life of the country. As a result, today we are confronted 
by little political accommodation, hardening sectarian divisions, 
ethnic cleansing by neighborhoods, and waves of refugees burdening 
neighboring countries.

After the Members of this body, this House of Representatives, have 
fully debated the President's escalation proposal, we will have a 
straight up-or-down vote. In a few days, and in fewer than 100 words, 
we will take our country in a new direction on Iraq. A vote of 
disapproval will set the stage for additional Iraq legislation which 
will be coming to the House floor.

Friday's vote will signal whether the House has heard the American 
people: no more blank checks for President Bush on Iraq. Our taxpayer 
dollars must go to protect our troops, to keep our promises to our 
veterans, and to provide for the safety of the American people.

In light of the facts, President Bush's escalation proposal will not 
make America safer, will not make our military stronger, and will not 
make the region more stable; and it will not have my support.

I urge my colleagues to support our troops and vote ''aye'' on the 
bipartisan Skelton-Lantos-Jones resolution before us today