# IN RECOGNITION OF RENA BITTER, RECIPIENT OF THE 2006 THOMAS JEFFERSON  AWARD
## `c2613468aad6e66e45a0b4a295fbf69a`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 12 January 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam Speaker, it is my pleasure to recognize Rena 
Bitter, a Dallas native and a Foreign Service officer currently serving 
as Consular Chief at the U.S. Embassy in Amman, Jordan, for winning the 
2006 Thomas Jefferson Award presented by American Citizens Abroad 
(ACA).

This honor is extended to State Department employees who have 
displayed exemplary service to the American community overseas. ACA 
founded this award to commemorate the 250th anniversary of the birth of 
Thomas Jefferson, America's first Secretary of State and third 
President. They described Jefferson as ''the quintessential Overseas 
American'' who lived outside the new republic for many years while 
helping to secure its independence and promote its political, economic 
and national security interests. In a similar manner, Rena serves our 
country today as Jefferson once served.

Rena entered the Foreign Service in 1994 having previously served in 
Mexico City, Mexico; Bogota, Colombia; and London, England. After 
spending a year with the British Foreign Office, Rena served as Chief 
of the Nonimmigrant Visa Unit at the American Embassy in London. During 
an assignment in Washington, DC, Rena served as a Special Assistant to 
former Secretary of State Colin Powell. Rena received additional 
leadership awards while serving both at the American Embassy in London 
and the office of the Secretary of State.

Currently in Amman, Rena has a wide range of responsibilities. She 
not only assists American citizens living and working in Jordan, but 
supports David Abell (co-winner of this award) and his co-workers at 
the U.S. Embassy in Iraq. Rena's dedicated efforts provide for the 
needs of our fellow citizens in very difficult times. As a testimony of 
her dedication to Americans overseas, one of her supervisors once wrote 
that ''If my grandkids were to find themselves in trouble, I would hope 
it would be Rena, or someone like her, who would be available'' to help 
them.

I wish Rena Bitter all the best, and I thank her for her dedicated 
service to the American citizens overseas.
