---
---

# OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN GOVERNMENT
## `c26fa5d5d816044544789316b35420d9`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from 
Ohio, and so eloquently put. It is a new opportunity in America. It is 
one of optimism. We have got a lot of work to do, but Americans always 
rise to the challenge in the time of the greatest challenge.

I think it is important to realize that this place we are standing, 
this sacred hall, this is the people's House. This is the first branch 
of government in the Constitution. This branch is coequal to the other 
two branches, and our duty of providing oversight and accountability is 
not something that we get to pick and choose on. It is our 
constitutional responsibility.

When I hear people entrust me, you will hear people in this very 
chamber start using the term ''micromanage.'' It seems to me there is a 
place where they dream up these words that they just keep repeating and 
repeating. Well, I can tell you what, micromanage, call it what you 
may, could be oversight and accountability also, and I ask my 
constituents, would you like a little oversight and accountability at 
Walter Reed? Would you like a little accountability on the situation in 
Iraq? Would you like a little accountability on what you hear on some 
of the things that are happening? And the answer is yes.

Sunshine truly is the best antiseptic. This new Congress has been 
here for 2 months, and there is a new way of doing business. It is the 
way that this country was laid out under the Constitution. It is the 
one that has served us best for over 230 years, and it is the one that 
we will continue to use that will provide the American people with the 
best government possible.



I thank the gentlelady, I thank my good colleague from Wisconsin for 
the opportunity to be here with you, and I look forward to many more 
opportunities to do the Nation's bidding the way it should be.