---
---

# AUTHORIZING USE OF EMANCIPATION HALL TO PRESENT CONGRESSIONAL GOLD  MEDAL TO WOMEN AIRFORCE SERVICE PILOTS
## `c288cd4f8b96d7d2910b5d9f541342c7`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 3 March 2010`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. I thank my good friend for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, as the House author of legislation awarding the 
Congressional Gold Medal to the Women Airforce Service Pilots, WASP, I 
rise in strong support of today's resolution.

I would like to thank my wonderful friend from California, my 
colleague, my collaborator, Congresswoman Susan Davis of California, 
for her dedicated work in support of the WASP.

Today's bill authorizes the use of Emancipation Hall, a historic 
place for a historic group of ladies, for an event that will honor a 
most unique sisterhood of women pioneers. Next, Wednesday, March 10, 
Mr. Speaker, the United States Congress will present the Congressional 
Gold Medal to the surviving members of the Women Airforce Service 
Pilots, WASP. This award serves as a small token of our tremendous 
appreciation of the remarkable courage and sacrifice made by these 
women during the perilous times of World War II.

The WASP were the first women in history to fly America's military 
aircraft. Between the years of 1942 and 1944, these courageous women 
volunteered to fly noncombat missions so that every available male 
pilot could be deployed in combat. More than 25,000 women applied for 
the program, but only 1,830 qualified women pilots were accepted.

Unlike their male counterparts, women applicants were required to be 
qualified pilots before they could apply for the Army Air Forces' 
military flight training program. That's what it was called, it sounds 
odd to say. Although 1,102 women earned their wings and went on to fly 
over 60 million miles for the Army Air Forces, equal to some 2,500 
times around the globe, they never got the recognition that they 
deserved. Their performances were equal in every way to those of their 
male pilots. With the exception of direct combat missions, the WASP 
flew the same aircraft with the same missions as male pilots. Women 
pilots were used to tow targets for male pilots who were using live 
ammunition for searchlight missions, for chemical missions, engineering 
test flying, and for countless other exercises.

In 1944, the WASP were disbanded. Their service records were sealed 
and classified. By the time the war ended, 38 women pilots had lost 
their lives while flying for our country. Although they took the 
military oath and were promised military status, the WASP were never 
recognized as true military personnel. These 38 women who died in the 
service of our country during World War II were denied death benefits, 
including proper military funerals. Not even an American flag covered 
their coffins, and their survivors never received a single dime.

As a former WASP, Mary Alice Putnam Vandeventer noted in a recent 
letter, fellow WASP would circulate a ''collection hat to make sure 
that a fallen sister pilot received a proper burial.''

It was not until 1977, more than 30 years after the WASP had served, 
when another woman pioneer, Congresswoman Lindy Boggs, introduced 
legislation to grant the WASP veterans status. Now, more than 30 years 
from that important occasion, the United States Congress, on behalf of 
the American people, will present the WASP with the recognition they 
deserve and with the recognition, indeed, they have earned.

The WASP are true pioneers, whose examples paved the way for the 
Armed Forces to finally lift the ban on a woman attending military 
flight training in the 1970s.



Today, women in the military fly every type of aircraft, from F-15s 
to the space shuttle. My daughter-in-law, Lindsay Nelson, a Marine 
Corps pilot, is part of this lasting legacy of the WASP. Lindsay is a 
graduate of the United States Naval Academy. She served combat tours in 
Iraq and in Afghanistan, where she flew the F-18 fighter jet. I am so 
proud of Lindsay and of all of our servicewomen, past and present, who 
continue to inspire young women to achieve what was heretofore 
unimaginable.

Of the 1,102 WASP, less than 300 are still alive today, and they are 
residing in almost every State of our beautiful Union.

I have had the honor and the privilege of meeting WASP from my 
congressional area of south Florida. Last August, Mr. Speaker, I 
presented Frances Rohrer Sargent, Ruth Shafer


Fleisher and Helen Wyatt Snapp with framed, signed copies of the WASP 
Congressional Gold Medal legislation. I cannot tell you how delighted I 
am that Frances, Ruth, and Helen will be traveling to Washington next 
week, along with more than 170 of their fellow WASP.

Join me in paying homage to these trailblazers and true patriots who 
served our country without question and with no expectation of 
recognition or praise. I hope that all of our colleagues will join us 
next week to do so.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me and my good friend from 
California, Mrs. Davis, in voting ''yes'' on this important 
recognition. We have taken a long time to recognize these brave 
pioneers, but that date has finally come, thanks to all of our Members.