# TRIBUTE TO THE LATE CONGRESSWOMAN JULIA CARSON
## `c2a9f289750caacb229e90422a513f9e`
`Ms. LEE â€” 18 December 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. I thank the gentlelady for yielding and for calling this 
Special Order to recognize and honor the extraordinary life of our dear 
friend and colleague Julia May Carson.

First, I would like to offer my deepest condolences to her family and 
her constituents of Indiana's Seventh Congressional District, to her 
friends and to her staff here in Washington, DC, and in Indiana. For 
over 35 years, Congresswoman Carson championed the rights of the 
underprivileged, the underrepresented and the overlooked. We came to 
depend on her determined leadership and commitment throughout her 
tenure in Congress. So a true voice for the voiceless was taken from us 
on December 15.


We shared many conversations about our common interests. We 
frequently talked about the fact that we both shared the same 
astrological sign. We are both Cancers. Julia's birthday was July 8. 
Mine is July 16. Julia Carson was fiercely loyal and patriotic, and 
that supposedly is a typical characteristic of Cancers. She exemplified 
those values, though, in many, many ways. Her loyalty and her 
patriotism was what undergirded and served as the foundation for her 
career in public service.

In coming to the House floor to vote, I would pass by her office. 
Oftentimes, I would walk with Julia. We would share many conversations. 
But even to this day I noticed, and I would like for you to look at the 
plaque outside her door, she has the pictures of at least 45 of 
Indiana's fallen men and women who have served this country. She kept 
their pictures in her office. She loved the troops. She loved her 
district and our young men and women.

She was a woman of courage. Congresswoman Carson was an adamant 
opponent of the Iraq war, and we talked about this a lot, even though 
it could pose political risks, but she let her conscience be her guide.

I witnessed her passion for justice when I served with her on the 
Housing Subcommittee with Congresswoman Waters, her passion for the 
homelessness and seeking housing for homeless public recipients. What a 
woman.

Very recently, even with her debilitating illness, several months ago 
she came to me and asked me to help her. We were putting this together, 
to put together another visit to South Africa. She wanted to lead a 
codel. And of course her health would not allow for this exhausting 
trip, but I will always remember up until a couple of months ago her 
optimism and determination to go back to South Africa. She wouldn't 
take ''no'' for an answer.

We are going to miss Congresswoman Carson tremendously. I am reminded 
of the scriptures, Timothy 4, Chapter 7: I have fought the good fight. 
I have finished the race, and I have remained faithful.

Madam Speaker, Congresswoman Julia Carson fought hard. She fought 
hard for peace and justice all of her life, and she completed her work 
on this Earth, but it is up to us to pick up that baton and to move it 
forward in her memory.

And she remained faithful. She remained faithful to the end to her 
family, her friends, her constituents, her country, and most 
importantly to her God. May her soul rest in peace.