---
---

# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `c2afeeda890e8bca75af911c90d0802d`
`Mr. HUNTER — 5 December 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, I want to thank my colleague from 
California for her comments, and also the distinguished chairman, who 
is a great friend and a wonderful patriot and has done a great job of 
steering our committee through the authorization process.

Let me tell you why I think it is important to pass this motion to 
instruct. We built the bridge fund. The Armed Services Committee 
realized we have the winter months when you need funding for the troops 
before you get to the spring supplemental. So we came up initially 
several years ago with the idea of a $50 billion bridge fund to make 
sure that those soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines had what they 
needed in the war-fighting theater to be successful.

It is true we have this in our bill this time because we are the 
major architects of the bridge fund. We are the people who came up with 
it the first time, and the appropriators followed us. But this time 
they did not follow us. This time they conditioned the bridge fund with 
get-out-of-Iraq language, and that was a disservice to everyone who 
wears the uniform in the theater and to the mission. So it is important 
for the Members of this body to cast their votes in favor of that 
bridge fund, and perhaps that will show the right direction to the 
Appropriations Committee and to the Members of Congress who vote on the 
full appropriations, because we need to have that bridge fund not only 
authorized but appropriated.

Finally, we do need to have that very strong language committing 
ourselves to avoid a failed state in Iraq. And we are winning.

Now let me go back to my good colleague Mr. Skelton, who said we all 
support the troops and we have manifested that support in pay raises. 
And we have. We have manifested it in good medical care and a new 
Wounded Warrior bill to assist those in Walter Reed and Bethesda and in 
our medical facilities around the world. We have done that. And we have 
manifested that in getting them the right equipment to carry out their 
mission.

But there is something else we owe the troops. We owe them the right 
to have victory, and they are achieving victory. And we owe them the 
right to have a successful mission, because nothing will be more 
fulfilling to them than to be victorious. And that means we need to 
continue to move the resources into Iraq and Afghanistan so they can 
continue to be victorious, so that the 80 percent drop-off in the 
violence rate in Anbar province will continue, and so that the Iraqi 
Army will continue to stand up to the point where it can displace 
America's heavy combat forces, Marines and Army, and our guys can come 
home or go to other places in CENTCOM.

Madam Speaker, this is a very important motion to instruct because it 
gives a very clear message to those 157,000-plus troops in Iraq and 
those 22,000-plus troops in Afghanistan. It says the American Congress, 
we stand behind our troops and we stand behind their mission.