# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `c2c7d0b75c175ef5b34a9544ca2ed955`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Chair.

Mr. President, I rise to speak on behalf of the nomination of GEN 
David Petraeus to be Commander of the International Security Assistance 
Force in Afghanistan, and Commander of U.S. Forces-Afghanistan. General 
Petraeus is quite simply one of the finest military leaders our country 
has ever produced. And we are all grateful for his willingness to 
answer the call of service in yet another critical mission--a mission 
that will once again take him far away from his family, especially his 
beloved wife Holly, whose support and sacrifice over many decades, both 
for General Petraeus and for our men and women in uniform, can never be 
overstated. General Petraeus is an American hero, and I urge my 
colleagues to confirm his nomination.

Before I go further, let me say a word of praise for another American 
hero: GEN Stanley McChrystal. He is a man of unrivaled integrity, and 
what is most impressive about his long record of military excellence is 
how much of it remains cloaked in silence. Few understand fully how 
General McChrystal systematically dismantled al-Qaida in Iraq, or how 
he began to turn around our failing war in Afghanistan. These 
achievements, and others like them, are the true measure of Stanley 
McChrystal, and they will earn him an honored place in our history.

We are calling on General Petraeus at a critical moment for the war 
in Afghanistan. I agree with the President that success in Afghanistan 
is ''a vital national interest,'' and I support his decision to adopt a 
counterinsurgency strategy, backed by more troops and civilian 
resources. This is the only viable path to true success--which I would 
define as an Afghanistan that is increasingly capable of governing 
itself, securing its people, sustaining its own development, and never 
again serving as a base for attacks against America and our allies. In 
short, the same results we are slowly seeing emerge today in Iraq, 
thanks in large part to the work of General Petraeus and the forces he 
commanded.

Before heading out to Iraq 3 years ago, General Petraeus told the 
Armed Services Committee that the mission was ''hard but not 
hopeless.'' I would characterize our mission in Afghanistan the same 
way. Afghanistan is not a lost cause. Afghans do not want the Taliban 
back. They are good fighters, and they want a government that works for 
them, and works well. And for those who think the Karzai government is 
not an adequate partner, I would remind them that, in 2007, the Maliki 
government in Iraq was not only corrupt; it was collapsed and complicit 
in sectarian violence. A weak and compromised local partner is to be 
expected in counterinsurgency. That is why there is an insurgency. The 
challenge is to support and push our partners to perform better. That 
is what we are doing in Iraq, and that is what we can do in 
Afghanistan. But we need to make it clear that, as long as success in 
Afghanistan is possible, we will stay there to achieve it.

I appreciate the President's statement last week that July 2011 is 
simply a date to ''begin a transition phase'' to greater Afghan 
responsibility. And for those who doubt the President's desire and 
commitment to succeed in Afghanistan, his nomination of General 
Petraeus to run this war should cause them to think twice. I know that 
General Petraeus will do everything in his power to help us succeed in 
Afghanistan. I know that if he believes he needs something he does not 
have, or if he thinks that changes should be made to our war effort, he 
will not hesitate to offer his best professional military advice to the 
President and to Congress. I am encouraged that this is the man the 
President has given his confidence. And I believe this should be an 
opportunity for the Senate to join together, on a broad bipartisan 
basis, not just to support the nomination of General Petraeus, but to 
demonstrate to the Americans we represent, as well as to our friends 
and allies abroad, that we are fully committed to the success of our 
mission in Afghanistan.

We must give General Petraeus every opportunity to succeed in his new 
command. And I believe that means stating clearly that the withdrawal 
of U.S. forces from Afghanistan must be determined solely by conditions 
on the ground. What we are trying to do in Afghanistan, as in any 
counterinsurgency, is win the loyalty of the population--to convince 
people who may dislike the insurgency, but who may also distrust their 
government, that they should line up with us against the Taliban and 
al-Qaida. We are asking them to take a huge risk, and they will be far 
less willing to take that risk if they think we will begin leaving in a 
year. In a news report yesterday, one U.S. marine described the effect 
of the


July 2011 date on the Afghans she encounters: ''That's why they won't 
work with us,'' she said. ''They say you'll leave in 2011, and the 
Taliban will chop their heads off.''

In addition to being harmful, the July 2011 withdrawal date 
increasingly looks unrealistic. That date was based on assumptions made 
back in December about how much progress we could achieve in 
Afghanistan, and how quickly we could achieve it. But war never works 
out the way we assume. Secretary Gates said last week, ''I believe we 
are making some progress. [But] it is slower and harder than we 
anticipated.'' I agree. Marjah is largely cleared of the Taliban, but 
the holding and building is not going as well as planned. Our operation 
in Kandahar is getting off to a slower and more difficult start than 
expected. The performance of the Afghan government over the past 7 
months is not as even or as rapid as we had hoped. Some of our key 
allies plan to withdraw their forces soon, and it looks increasingly 
unlikely that NATO will meet its pledge of 10,000 troops.

None of this is to say that we are failing, or that we will fail, in 
Afghanistan. It just means that we need to give our strategy the 
necessary time to succeed. This is all the more essential now with 
General Petraeus assuming command, pending his confirmation. He has 
proved that he can lead our forces to success. He has proved that he 
can work effectively with local partners in counterinsurgency. He has 
proved that he is an ideal partner for our many allies and friends, who 
are so critical to success in Afghanistan. In short, David Petraeus has 
proved that he is a winner, and we need to give him every opportunity 
and remove every obstacle so that he can help the United States and our 
allies to win in Afghanistan.

General Petraeus has my full support, and I urge my colleagues to 
vote to confirm his nomination so he can take up his new mission as 
soon as possible.

I yield back the remainder of my time.

Mr. FEINGOLD Mr. President, it is my general policy to defer to 
Presidents on executive branch nominations. General Petraeus is clearly 
qualified for this position and, accordingly, I will vote in favor of 
his confirmation. But regardless of who is in command, the President's 
current strategy in Afghanistan is counterproductive. We should set a 
flexible timetable for responsibly drawing down U.S. troops, not just a 
start date, so that we can pursue a sustainable, global campaign 
against al-Qaida and its affiliates.