# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `c2cc0a8d42ddfb8c73ee1b2fa42dfdfb`
`Mr. CONYERS â€” 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on H.R. 2642, the 
most recent authorization bill placed before the Congress to fund the 
continuing occupation of Iraq. Forged in the backrooms of the Capitol 
by Washington politicians, this bill seeks to strike an uneasy 
compromise. While it continues to fund overseas conflicts, the bill 
also includes long-overdue aid for segments of the American public 
desperate for help. Specifically, the bill provides $52 million for an 
expanded G.I. Bill, extends unemployment benefits in states, like 
Michigan, that have been hit the hardest by the current economic 
downturn, and postpones seven Medicaid reimbursement rate cuts. I 
support such aid, while rejecting the appropriation of an additional 
$165 million in war funds. As a responsible legislator and a man of 
peace, I urge my colleagues to understand that we can have guns or 
butter, but not both.

Mr. Speaker, it's unfortunate that it has taken the consideration of 
a war-funding bill to address these important domestic priorities. As 
you know, up until recently, the Administration and the Republican 
leadership have complained that the inclusion of this domestic funding 
in a war supplemental smacks of fiscal irresponsibility. To them, 
spending federal dollars to improve G.I. bill benefits for our battle-
weary veterans, to extend unemployment benefits for those left behind 
by failed trickle-down economic policies, and to safeguard the 
reimbursement amounts paid to doctors, who provide medical care to the 
most vulnerable Americans, is spending that this country cannot afford.

Mr. Speaker, I have a message for this Administration and their 
congressional allies: Bettering and strengthening the lives of the 
American people is the purpose of this great institution. Such action 
is not optional. It is our sworn duty. And if anyone has shown fiscal 
recklessness, it has been this President. After 6 years of bloody war, 
this Nation is $592 billion dollars poorer. It is the height of 
callousness to say that we don't have enough money for our veterans, 
the unemployed, or our Medicaid doctors; that it is they who are 
expendable--even as the President burns through billions of taxpayer 
dollars in Iraq.

I suppose that we shouldn't be surprised that this Administration is 
willing to sacrifice the American people, while its allies at 
Halliburton, ExxonMobil, and Blackwater continue to make record profits 
off of this war. After all, this Administration ceased being 
accountable to the American voter long ago. In a recent interview with 
ABC News, the Vice President himself admitted as much. When asked 
whether or not it was significant that two-thirds of the American 
people now believe that the War in Iraq is no longer worth fighting, 
Mr. Cheney responded, ''So?''

Mr. Speaker, the President and the Vice-President have forsaken their 
duty to be responsive to the public. As such, we in the Congress must 
step in and fill this void. Someone must give the American people a 
voice, especially when Executive Branch officers act in ways contrary 
to the public good.

Mr. Speaker, setting aside issues of education funding, job aid, and 
other worthy public policy aims, this body must not ignore the one 
undeniable reality that dominates everything that we will talk about 
this day: As of today, we have been at war for 1865 days, with no end 
in sight. If we approve this war funding, that number will likely climb 
to over 2000 days. We as a Nation have endured 1865 days of civil war, 
IEDS, ethnic cleansing, aid-worker beheadings, suicide bombings, 
sweetheart no-bid contracts, rank government corruption, and solemn 
vigils over flag draped coffins. Mr. Speaker, this war must end. The 
American people and the Iraqi people have endured enough. I urge my 
colleagues to vote against funding this war another day. Tomorrow, we 
will have been at war for 1866 days. It will be 1866 days too many.