---
---

# IN HONOR OF LANCE CORPORAL RYAN M. WELCH
## `c2cd25e6143b5b84dc664a08980fedc2`
`Mr. ADLER of New Jersey — 14 June 2010`

---


Mr. ADLER of New Jersey. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor LCpl 
Ryan M. Welch of Medford, New Jersey and to welcome him home from his 
recent tour of duty in Afghanistan.

After graduating from Shawnee High School in 2008, Ryan enlisted in 
the United States Marine Corp. He completed his basic training at Paris 
Island in South Carolina and went to Infantry Training at Camp Geiger, 
North Carolina. In 2009 he was assigned to MCB Hawaii Kaneohe Bay Oahu, 
Hawaii where he was meritoriously promoted to Lance Corporal. Lance 
Corporal Welch also received a Meritorious Mast during training 
exercises at Pohakuloa Training Area in July 2009 for demonstrating 
outstanding performance of duty during Exercise Lava Viper.

Lance Corporal Welch completed his first deployment to Afghanistan in 
support of Operation Enduring Freedom. During his deployment he served 
bravely in combat action during Operation Moshtarak in Marjah 
Afghanistan. He served as an Infantry Rifleman in Jump Platoon, 
Headquarter and Service Company, 1st Battalion 3rd Regiment from Marine 
Corp Base Hawaii and as security for visiting dignitaries and performed 
general patrols and security for Nawa District, Hellmand Province in 
Afghanistan.

Madam Speaker, please join me and a grateful nation in welcoming home 
Lance Corporal Welch. We are eternally thankful to him for his service 
to our great country.
