---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `c2cf4349cfd094260c0dd747ac3ed497`
`Mr. STARK — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of ending the War in Iraq.

Last November, the American people demanded a new direction for Iraq. 
Today, the new Democratic Congress is taking a concrete step toward 
bringing our troops home.

The Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act sends a loud and clear 
message to President Bush. It requires the President to begin 
withdrawing American forces in the next 120


days and to complete the transition to a limited presence by April 1, 
2008.

This legislation is an important and historic step forward, but it 
does not go far enough. I support the immediate withdrawal of all 
American troops.

Not next year. Not next month. Today.

I oppose additional funding for the war because the situation in Iraq 
isn't getting better, it's getting worse. Since Bush announced his 
intent to escalate the war and deploy an additional 20,000 American 
troops, 600 have been killed and more than 3,000 have been wounded.

And for what? The administration just acknowledged in a 
congressionally mandated report that since the ''surge,'' there has 
been little to no progress on a host of political, security and 
economic benchmarks proposed by the President himself.

In total, the war has taken the lives of more than 3,600 American 
service men and women and injured more than 26,000. Countless innocent 
Iraqis have been killed or maimed.

This loss of life is obscene and must stop.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 2956 and commit to 
withholding additional money for Iraq when Congress debates the next 
war funding bill in September.