---
---

# None
## `c2d252c6d40a00b77defe1ee30f7ba2e`
`Ms. CASTOR — 12 December 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, House Resolution 860 provides for consideration of the 
conference report to accompany H.R. 1585, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, under the standard conference 
report rule.

Madam Speaker, today the Congress will promote a stronger and safer 
America by approving the National Defense Authorization conference 
report and this rule. As a member of the House Armed Services 
Committee, which is chaired by the distinguished gentleman from 
Missouri (Mr. Skelton), I am pleased to report that the committee has 
worked in a bipartisan manner to ensure that our brave men and women in 
uniform have the tools they need to keep America safe and strong.

Our military personnel and their families have sacrificed so much in 
past years and continue to do so. In recognition of their service, this 
Congress is proud to make important improvements in military pay and 
benefits. We have raised the pay of our brave men and women in uniform 
beyond the levels set originally by the President. And when our brave 
men and women in combat are injured in the line of duty, they deserve 
top quality medical care. The Walter Reed scandal drew back the curtain 
on some of the challenges that the military community faces when it 
comes to serving our brave men and women when they return from the 
battlefield. Unfortunately, the military health care system was not 
providing consistent, excellent care for our wounded soldiers. So, 
Madam Speaker, one of the highlights of this bill are our efforts to 
improve assistance to wounded warriors. These provisions have been 
worked on throughout the year in a bipartisan way to improve the health 
care for our wounded servicemembers because they deserve nothing but 
the best.

We move beyond the ''support our troops'' rhetoric and enact 
substantive improvements that will restore confidence in the quality of 
care that our brave men and women in uniform deserve when they return 
from the battlefield. This includes assistance to their very supportive 
families, because supporting our troops does not simply mean that you 
salute and send them off to war and then ask them to serve and 
sacrifice for our great country, but supporting our troops means that 
we continue to support them when they return home.

This bill improves the screening for traumatic brain injury and post-
traumatic stress disorder. I am very proud to recognize the efforts of 
my hometown VA Medical Center, the James A. Haley Medical Center, which 
is home to one of the four polytrauma centers in the country where we 
have so many dedicated doctors, nurses and psychologists and folks in 
physical therapy. They are so dedicated to these brave men and women 
that come home with the worst injuries. But we have got to do more. And 
that is contained in this bill.

This bill also mandates that the Secretaries of Defense and Veterans 
Affairs establish a standard for rating servicemembers' disabilities 
that takes into consideration all of their medical conditions.

An important part of improving the health care and mental health care 
for our wounded warriors is tackling the bureaucracy that has blocked 
their access to health care. So we require expedited action, provide 
medical advocates, improve support services for families, elevate the 
care for traumatic brain injuries and aid the polytrauma centers in VA 
hospitals across the country that are serving the most critically 
wounded troops.

This bill also blocks an increase that was proposed by the White 
House to health insurance premiums for military families and troops 
under the TRICARE system. It is inexplicable how the White House could 
propose health insurance premium increases at a time when we are asking 
so much of our brave American men and women in uniform. So, proudly, 
the Congress, in a bipartisan way, blocks these health insurance 
premium increases.

Madam Speaker, we know that because of the multiyear, sometimes 
seemingly unending war in Iraq, that the readiness, the military 
readiness of our country has suffered over the years. Well, this bill 
restores the readiness of our Armed Forces, including equipment repair, 
so that our soldiers go to battle with the most up-to-date equipment 
available. In terms of readiness, we have authorized moneys for a new 
Strategic Readiness Fund and to address equipment deficiencies. We have 
all heard stories of soldiers, especially the folks in our National 
Guard and Reserves, who are having problems with equipment shortages 
and even receiving the necessary training that they need before heading 
off to war. In some cases, the National Guard has been unable to help 
in the traditional disaster response roles in their local communities 
due to this problem. Well, this bill tackles that so we can improve the 
readiness of the National Guard and Reserves so they can do their jobs 
safely, efficiently and effectively.

Madam Speaker, this bill also calls for greater accountability over 
the waste and fraud in Iraq that has been all too prevalent under this 
administration. This includes the troubles we have had with various 
contractors. As we see from the fallout of the Blackwater contracting 
debacles, there has been so much waste and fraud in contracting in Iraq 
and under this White House that we are not going to put up with it any 
longer. This bill substantially improves oversight of the multibillion-
dollar and sometimes sole-source contracts that have been approved 
during this war in Iraq.

The Armed Services Committee, under Chairman Skelton's leadership, 
also requires additional accountability measures for Afghanistan, 
including a new Inspector General for Afghanistan reconstruction, as we 
cannot sanction the waste and fraud that has accompanied the 
administration's Iraq reconstruction.

Madam Speaker, many believe that because of the White House's 
preoccupation in Iraq that that preoccupation has shortchanged the 
focus in Afghanistan where the Taliban allowed al Qaeda to flourish 
some years ago. And, after all, the ungoverned and dangerous tribal 
areas of Pakistan are just south of the Afghan border. Indeed,


just yesterday, listening to the Defense Secretary and the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the Armed Services Committee, it became 
apparent that we are not able to do as much as we would like to do in 
Afghanistan because of the resources that have been overwhelmingly 
devoted to Iraq. Well, in this bill, we direct more attention to 
operations in Afghanistan in addition to an Inspector General that will 
oversee reconstruction efforts. This bill contains a long-term plan to 
improve stability in Afghanistan.

Madam Speaker, many of the unsung heroes of our Armed Forces whose 
missions you never hear about are the brave men and women in America's 
special forces. I am very proud that the headquarters of Special 
Operations Command is located in my hometown of Tampa, Florida, at 
MacDill Air Force Base. This defense bill under Democratic leadership 
not only fully funds our special forces but goes beyond the Bush 
administration's budget request for these brave men and women, 
including a number of needs that were not proposed to be funded by the 
White House at all. Our commitment to special forces recognizes that we 
cannot rely overwhelmingly any longer on conventional forces in defense 
of our country. We have got to be smarter. We have got to be more 
strategic. And this bill authorizes the increases in special forces and 
also a new emphasis on more strategic action.

Oftentimes, to win a struggle, it is more strategic and smarter not 
to go in with guns blazing but instead to work with folks on the ground 
to prevent any terrorist inclinations from ever developing. This bill 
does that. We will invest additional resources to improve education and 
analytical intelligence surveillance. We harness the science and 
technology innovation in this great country by investing in information 
technology and other technologies to make sure that our troops on the 
ground have the best technology available across the globe.

Madam Speaker, this Defense authorization bill and this rule charts a 
new direction for true readiness, accountability and more strategic 
investments to protect our national security. It improves the health 
care needs for our wounded warriors and does a better job of helping 
our families work through the unending maze of benefits and paperwork 
that come from caring for an injured soldier.

I urge full, bipartisan support.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.