---
---

# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `c2de0e3c8714d04fd464119d4473ca8a`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank my friend from California for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I listened with interest to this debate. I think I will 
start with the constitutional side of this and what I believe is a 
disagreement and maybe a fundamental and real disagreement in the 
Constitution.

I will make this statement, that the Constitution grants Congress the


power to do three things with regard to war: One of them is to declare 
it, and that is clear; the second one is to raise an Army and a Navy 
and, by implication, an Air Force, and that is clear; and the third 
thing is to fund it. But there is nothing in this Constitution that 
says that we have the authority to overrule the Commander in Chief, nor 
to micromanage a war. Nor are there any 535 generals that are somehow 
or another empowered within article I or any other article of the 
Constitution it.

So when the gentleman says that it is a constitutional responsibility 
of Congress to conduct foreign policy, I would ask, where in this 
Constitution do you find that? I find that all vested in the powers of 
the President, where he appoints ambassadors, he sets foreign policy. 
Yes, with the advice and consent of the Senate on the confirmation, but 
it is the President's foreign policy, it is the President's State 
Department, and it is the President's military to command.

When we deviate from that, we put ourselves in the condition where 
our Continental Army was back before we established this Constitution. 
They knew what was wrong. The Continental Congress was trying to fight 
a war by consensus, and that is why we have a Commander in Chief, and 
we must adhere to that.

If you really want to give some rest to these troops, don't tell the 
President what he has to do. He is doing all he can to give our troops 
all the rest he can.

I just came back from there. Expand this standing, active duty 
military so that they can get some rest. Don't pull them out of the 
field. And if you are sincere about this, don't limit it to Operation 
Iraqi Freedom. Expand this globally. If you really mean it, they get 
tired wherever they are, in Afghanistan, Iraq and wherever they happen 
to be on the globe.

The President knows that. He cares about these troops. I looked him 
in the eye last week. He is doing everything he can. Everyone is a 
volunteer, and everyone is a volunteer not just for the military but 
for this mission. And you cannot separate your support for the troops 
from support of the mission. You must support their mission. If you are 
going to ask them to put their lives on the line for us, then you stand 
for their mission. The least we can do is wait for General Petraeus' 
report.