# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `c2e19566ac4828fd2c0004d2be260be2`
`Mr. REID — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, first of all, I want to acknowledge how 
pleased I am to join as cosponsor of this extremely important 
amendment. I applaud Senators Hagel and Webb for returning the focus of 
the Senate to the issue of our troops and their readiness.

There is a lot of talk around here about supporting the troops. Too 
often we don't take the kind of action that can achieve that goal. 
Yesterday, when the Senate voted to maintain the language on changing 
course in Iraq, it was a good day for our country and for our troops 
who may finally get the new policy they deserve.

With yesterday's vote, the Senate finally acknowledged the reality in 
Iraq: The President's policy is not working. It is time to change 
course. This bipartisan position was backed up in the newspapers around 
the country today. USA Today and the Associated Press have an article 
today detailing how the surge is not working. Baghdad, in some 
instances, may be quieter, but according to the news outlets I have 
just mentioned, insurgents have taken their attacks elsewhere. I quote:




 Nationwide, the number of deaths from car bombs has 


 decreased slightly since the Baghdad Security Operation 


 began. However, the death toll from car bombs has more than 


 doubled in areas outside the capital compared to the previous 


 6-week period.


Violence has not stopped in Iraq. It has gotten worse. Earlier today, 
Shiite militants, including local police, went on a violent rampage. 
When it ended 2 hours later, we do not know how many Sunnis have been 
killed, but at least 60. The victims were men between the ages of 15 
and 60, most of them killed with a shot to the back of the head.

These reports fly in the face of what we heard in the Senate 
yesterday from some quarters, and we hear from President Bush that 
things are better in Iraq. The idea that the surge is working or that 
it needs more time is a fantasy. What we see today in Iraq, months into 
the surge, is more of the same--the same violence, the same chaos, the 
same loss of life we have seen over the last 4-plus years, with 3,200 
dead Americans and $500 billion spent. It is long past time to change 
course in Iraq.

If, yesterday, the Senate acknowledged the reality of the Iraq war, 
today we must acknowledge the reality of what the Iraq war is doing to 
our military and their ability to defend this Nation everyplace.

Mr. President, we have no better advocates to learn about the reality 
of combat than Senators Hagel and Webb. The authors of this amendment 
have authority on this subject based on their experience in battle, in 
war--not the classroom. When Chuck Hagel and Jim Webb speak for a 
change of course, we should all listen.

Chuck Hagel is a Vietnam combat veteran. He served with his brother 
Tom. Both of them were infantry squad leaders with the U.S. Army's 9th 
Infantry Division. For his service, Senator Hagel earned many military 
decorations, including having been wounded twice--two Purple Hearts. 
When I say Chuck Hagel is a combat veteran, I mean it. I mean it. Here 
is a description from a 2005 Washington Post profile of what Senator 
Hagel faced in Vietnam:




 In Vietnam, Chuck, 21, and his brother Tom, 19, had fought 


 and nearly died together as infantry squad leaders. In 1968, 


 their armored personnel carrier hit a 500-pound mine. It blew 


 out Chuck's eardrums, set him on fire--''the whole left side 


 of my face bubbled.'' Chuck pulled Tom, unconscious, from the 


 burning gunner turret. Chuck saved his brother's life just 


 months after Tom had saved his [brother Chuck's life], when 


 shrapnel ripped through [Senator Hagel's] chest.


That is only part of the story. Jim Webb was also in Vietnam. He was 
a marine with the Fifth Marine Regiment. For his service he was awarded 
the Navy Cross, the Silver Star, two Bronze Stars, and also two Purple 
Hearts. Here is an excerpt from his citation for the Navy Cross:




 Continuing the assault, [Webb] approached a third bunker 


 and was preparing to fire into it when the enemy threw 


 another grenade. Observing the grenade land dangerously close 


 to his companion, First Lieutenant Webb simultaneously fired 


 his weapon at the enemy, pushed the marine away from the 


 grenade, and shielded him from the explosion with his own 


 body.


Webb's service did not stop on the battlefields of Vietnam. In 1984, 
he was appointed the inaugural Assistant Secretary of Defense. In 1987, 
under President Reagan, he became the first Naval Academy graduate in 
the history of our country to serve the military and then become 
Secretary of the Navy.

These two men are authorities on war, authorities on war and the 
military. All of us would be wise to heed their counsel. Chuck Hagel 
and Jim Webb are certified heroes. That is all you can say.

This morning I got up early and went to Walter Reed. I met a new 
generation of heroes, men and women injured serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I was accompanied by my friend, the distinguished Senator 
from Washington, Mrs. Murray. To say I left depressed is an 
understatement. We have all heard the stories about Walter Reed.

I have two observations from my visit. I have been there on other 
occasions, but I have two observations from my visit today.

First, private contracting is destroying the ability of the military 
to care for our troops. Go to Walter Reed. Listen to the parents. 
Listen to the people who are there, who are hurt. I was walking into 
Walter Reed and I introduced myself to a man dressed in civilian 
clothes. He told me who he was: a college graduate.

I said: What do you do?

He said: I am an industrial hygienist.



I said: What do you do?

He said: I am one of those guys who goes around trying to make sure 
that these places are sanitary and safe. I check for mold.

I said: How are you doing?

He said: Terrible.

I said: Why?

He said: Because of contracting out we went from 15 industrial 
hygienists at Walter Reed to 5.

So contracting out is hurting our ability to care for our troops.

No. 2, one soldier said it the best. He was sitting there, leg off 
midthigh. He said: Everyone thinks that this is my problem. He said: 
That's not my problem. He said: It's this leg--and he had a leg that 
was terribly mutilated--the calf blown off, dropped foot, scars all up 
and down it.

He said: You know, but I'm really fortunate because I'm alive.

He went on to say: We amputees are treated pretty well. It's the 
people with injuries that you can't see who are having a difficult 
time.

That is the way it is. One young man from Cincinnati, OH, just turned 
20 years old--big, as big as the Presiding Officer--big man. He said: I 
only got shot once. He said: I had a protective vest. I was shot in the 
stomach. It didn't hurt me too bad. But I survived multiple explosive 
devices.

He said: My friend--these are his words--''vaporized sitting next to 
me.''

He is now in big trouble--emotionally, mentally. He has a lot of 
problems. He said: I have nightmares, I sweat, I become violent, I 
can't remember anything. He said: I don't know what I'm going to do. He 
was one of a number whom we visited with there.

Walter Reed is a metaphor of what is happening to our military as a 
whole. We don't have a single Army unit that is nondeployed that is 
battle ready. We hear today from one of the generals that in the 
National Guard, 40 percent of the units are not capable of anything 
realistically connected to battle. It will take $40 billion to bring 
the Guard alone up to what it was before the war. The war has badly 
strained our military. The administration's policies have reduced our 
military readiness to levels not seen for a long time. Not a single 
unit, nondeployed Army unit, I repeat, is combat ready. Multiple and 
extended deployments overseas have reduced readiness and damaged 
recruiting, retention, and morale. Units have been sent into battle by 
this administration without the proper training and equipment, in my 
opinion. That is not supporting the troops; that is breaking the force. 
We have to do better.

This is not just my opinion. It is the opinion of current and former 
senior Army officers.

Colin Powell:




 The active Army is about broken.


Arnold Punaro, Chairman of the Commission on the National Guard and 
Reserves 15 days ago said:




 We can't sustain the [National Guard and Reserves] on the 


 course we're on.


Peter Schoomaker, Chief of Staff of the Army, said:




 To meet combatant commanders' immediate wartime needs, we 


 pooled equipment from across the force to equip soldiers 


 deploying into harm's way. . . . This practice, which we 


 are continuing today, increases risk for next-to-deploy 


 units and limits our ability to respond to emerging 


 strategic contingencies.


I spoke yesterday to a man in my security detail on his way to Iraq 
for the third time. Sadly, his story is the norm, not the exception. Of 
the Army's 44 combat brigades, all but one permanently based in South 
Korea have been deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan. Of those 43 brigades, 
12 deployed once, 20 deployed twice, 9 deployed three times, 2 have 
been deployed 4 times.

Today we have soldiers serving in Iraq who have been fighting in 
battle well over a year. We have other soldiers who were on their way 
to Iraq after having been home with their families for a matter of 
months.

That is not supporting the troops. It is hurting the troops. Our men 
and women cannot and should not continue to bear the burden of this 
mismanaged war. We have to do better. That is why the Webb-Hagel 
amendment is so important.

This amendment will ensure our troops have the equipment they need 
before they go to battle--before they go to battle. It explicitly 
states that our troops must have the training and equipment they need 
or they cannot be sent overseas.

This amendment will also enhance the quality of life for troops and 
their families and, as a result, improve recruiting and retention. It 
says that after our brave men and women serve 365 days in Iraq, they 
are entitled to a significant period of rest back home before they can 
be redeployed. In short, this Hagel-Webb amendment will improve 
readiness and our ability to respond to other threats and project power 
around the world.

We live, we all know, in a dangerous world. We face many threats. 
From destroying al-Qaida to deterring Iran and North Korea from gaining 
nuclear weapons, there are critical challenges around the world that 
we, the superpower, America, must confront. Unfortunately, we have a 
military stretched too thin to meet these challenges.

After years of overuse and neglect, we must reinvest in the military. 
With this amendment we will take the necessary steps to make a 
downpayment on rebuilding our fighting force and keeping our families 
safe.

I so appreciate these two combat veterans, these two unique, good 
Senators leading us down this road on which we must be led.