# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `c2f51b90ea872f4c409e6eb9cd3d3bae`
`Mr. OBEY â€” 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 10 minutes.

Madam Speaker, I recognize Members want to get out of here and, as I 
indicated, we are going to facilitate that. But this is an important 
issue, and it deserves a few minutes of discussion.

As I said on the floor last week, in November I believe the American 
people sent two messages to this body and to the White House. Number 
one, they wanted a change in policy in Iraq; and, number two, they 
wanted a change in domestic priorities here at home.

I think that the White House, by its insistence on no compromise on 
both the Iraqi front and on the domestic appropriations front, has 
indicated that it would prefer to tell the American people: We don't 
care what you thought you were telling us in November, we are going to 
do it our way; and, it is our way or the highway.

Madam Speaker, it is simply not credible for a President who is 
asking us to spend $200 billion in additional money in Iraq, it is not 
credible for a President who is asking us to spend $50 billion to $60 
billion again this year on tax cuts for people who make over $1 million 
a year, to then say that we cannot afford to make basic investments in 
education, in health care, in medical research.

The President insists that we follow his budget with respect to this 
bill. If we do, we would cut vocational education 50 percent; we would 
eliminate every student aid program except Pell Grants and work study; 
we would cut handicapped education by $300 million; we would cut mental 
health resources by $100 million; we would cut the training in 
children's hospitals by 63 percent; we would cut rural health by 54 
percent; and, we would cut low-income heating assistance by 18 percent.

The gentleman from New York mentioned the need for compromise on this 
bill. We have already had incredible compromise. We have had compromise 
on virtually every item in this bill, on every issue ranging from 
family planning to special education, and the minority has been 
involved every step of the way. When the bill was reported out of 
subcommittee, every single member of the subcommittee signed the 
committee report, and yet today we face a Presidential veto.

Madam Speaker, I want to make one thing clear. We have said from the 
beginning to the White House we would like to compromise. We have asked 
the White House, I have asked Mr. Nussle, I know our leadership has 
asked the President personally, to sit down and work out our 
differences. We have been told as recently as last Saturday by the 
press secretary speaking for the White House that the White House had 
no intention of compromising, and that all the Congress had to do to 
meet the President's standards was to submit a bill which was fully 
identical with his budget.



I'm sorry, this is an independent branch of government, and we have 
an obligation to do better than that.

Now, I was asked by a number of members of the press earlier today 
why the Senate majority leader had released information indicating that 
I and Senator Byrd were in the process of trying to put together a 
split-the-difference appropriation bill for all of the remaining 
appropriation items that still have yet to be finished. I want to take 
this opportunity to explain why we've done that.

People might like to cast a vote without having to take 
responsibility for knowing the consequences, but there are severe 
consequences for voting against overriding the President's veto of the 
Labor-Health-Education bill.

If this veto is not overridden, the best that could happen is that we 
will wind up splitting the difference with the President's wholly 
inadequate budgets. If we were to do a 50 percent cut to the difference 
between the Labor-Health-Education bill and the President's budget, 
what will that mean for the programs that so many Members of Congress 
claim that they are for?

For medical research into diseases like cancer, Parkinson's and 
diabetes at the National Institutes of Health, meeting the President 
halfway would put us $700 million below the bill we are considering 
today. That means 700 fewer grants for research to treat and cure all 
of the deadly diseases that all of us like to tell our constituents 
we're sworn to try to overcome. I don't want to have to go back home 
and explain that kind of cut in NIH, but that's one of the things that 
will happen undoubtedly, if this veto is not overridden tonight.

For health care access, to provide 1.2 million more Americans with 
access to community health centers, this bill is


$200 million above the President's request. Under a split-the-
difference scenario, access for 600,000 Americans will evaporate.

Likewise, this bill provides $95 million so that 200,000 Americans 
who can't get insurance because they are medically high risk will have 
access to health insurance at the State level. That insurance also 
evaporates for 100,000 people if we split the difference.

Under the President's budget, vocational education would be cut by 50 
percent. This bill eliminates that cut, but meeting him halfway would 
still mean a 25 percent cut.

My Republican colleagues worked hard to push funding up for special 
education, even beyond what I had proposed in committee, funding the 
program $800 million above the President's request. Defeat of this bill 
will slash that increase by $400 million.

This bill provides $400 million above the President to serve nearly 
120,000 more low-income kids with title I grants. But 60,000 of those 
kids will be out of luck if we meet the President's budget halfway.

For the LIHEAP program, this bill also helps around 1/1/2/ million 
more families to pay their energy bills by providing $630 million more 
than the President's budget. Anyone who votes against this bill will be 
making inevitable at least a $315 million cut. That means 750,000 fewer 
families will have help this winter.

Now, please remember, everything that I've described is, at best, a 
best-case scenario if this bill is defeated and we have to pursue a 
split-the-difference alternative. In fact, as long as a sufficient 
number of Republican Members continue to follow the President's budget 
priorities, the result is likely to be even worse. Those who vote 
against overriding this veto will take full responsibility for the cuts 
in these essential investments.

I would like to make one other point. I know most of you on that side 
of the aisle, and I recognize that there are probably 50 or 60 of you 
who are so indifferent to these programs that you could care less what 
happens, but I don't believe that that's true about the rest of you. I 
think you care about America's children as much as I do. I think you 
care about medical research as much as I do. And many of you have told 
me that you wish you could vote for this bill, but your party 
leadership won't give you a permission slip.

I ask you to use your own judgment. I ask you to recognize that this 
issue may not be important to you, but it's important to the American 
families who are affected by what you do here tonight. It affects the 
quality of their education; it affects the degree to which we will 
protect the health and safety of American workers; it protects our 
ability to dig into the problem of serious disease across the board.

You know in your hearts that this is a decent bill. This is a 
bipartisan product put together in a bipartisan way. It deserves a 
bipartisan vote.