# FAA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `c2f7e98238d99bda866f819af202769b`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida â€” 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Madam President, the statement by the Senator 
from Idaho with regard to the need for drilling has been articulated by 
a very respected columnist, Robert J. Samuelson, who recently wrote his 
column, published in the Washington Post, that in essence said we ought 
to put oil rigs off the protected shores of Florida and in the 
preserved wilds of Alaska.

Once again, we are going to hear statements such as that of the 
Senator from Idaho and read statements in the written press by Mr. 
Samuelson as gas prices are hitting record highs. We are going to see 
the renewed push by the Bush administration and by the oil industry to 
drill in areas that are protected, such as the Gulf of Mexico off 
Florida, as articulated by the Senator from Idaho, as well as the area 
known as ANWR, which is in the preserved wilderness of Alaska. Drilling 
right away in environmentally protected areas was the centerpiece of 
Mr. Samuelson's solution to the rising gas prices.

There is not one of us in this Chamber who does not want to do 
something about those gas prices. What Mr. Samuelson said in his column 
was that to oppose drilling in those protected areas--as indicated also 
by the Senator who has just spoken--to oppose drilling in those 
protected areas, he said, is sheer stupidity. And he said further it is 
a ''prejudice against oil companies.''

That is the same thing the oil companies say every time there is a 
spike in prices. They have their long-term remedy that would expose 
these wilderness areas, and Florida's beach and tourism-driven economy, 
our areas of an environmentally sensitive nature, as well as the 
military interests I asked the Senator from Idaho to acknowledge, and 
they would put all that at risk. It is these same oil companies that 
are now, because of the high price of gasoline, going to make another 
end run--very possibly next week--and try to bust the ban, the 
longstanding ban on coastal drilling. Of course, they are going to cite 
what they do every time the oil prices spike high. They are going to 
cite the high gasoline prices.

I am basing my predictions of what is going to happen in the next 
couple of weeks, I am basing this assertion on the oil industry's track 
record and on the comments made Tuesday by the President, renewing his 
call for drilling. I am basing it on the suggestions we see in this 
newspaper column.

In advance of this likely new assault, this Senator wants to make 
clear oil that is still deep in the ground has no direct link--none--to 
today's pump


prices. Any oil in the ground will not be in the marketplace for 
another 10 years. More important, no matter what anybody says or what 
anybody writes, the United States only has 3 percent of the world's oil 
reserves while the United States consumes 25 percent of the world's oil 
production. In other words, it is, to use Samuelson's term, ''sheer 
stupidity'' to think the United States can somehow drill its way out of 
the energy crisis.

We are a nation that is hooked on oil. Drilling along the Florida 
shore or in wildlife preserves will not break the habit. By the way, 
one of the main reasons oil prices have gone up so sharply in recent 
years is the volatility of major producer nations, such as Iraq and 
Iran--not even to mention Venezuela and Nigeria. History reflects 
similar spikes, circa 1973, when we had an OPEC oil embargo related to 
a war in the Middle East; then again in 1979 with the Iranian 
revolution; again in 1990 with Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and the first 
gulf war; and again, since 2003, with the war in Iraq, concomitant with 
increasing Asian demand.

The common denominator in all these spikes is they are fueled by the 
subsequent increase in oil speculation. The common denominator is 
trouble in the Middle East and especially in Iraq and Iran. More 
drilling along protected U.S. coasts, in bays and harbors and in the 
pristine wilderness of Alaska, will not stabilize Iraq and it will not 
guarantee Saudi Arabia's long-term friendship. Nor will it end the 
unregulated speculation that has driven the price of oil to more than 
$118 a barrel when the price should have been no more than $55 a 
barrel, based on present supply and demand, according to an industry 
leader's testimony before Congress. That means the law of supply and 
demand has been broken and we are paying at least $63 per barrel over 
and above what supply and demand would produce--a price of $55. We are 
paying that extra $63 per barrel to enrich investment bankers, 
speculators, and oil companies.

As Mr. Samuelson says in his column: ''What to do?''

The U.S. failed in the 1970s to enact a real energy program to get us 
off oil. The result is it is Brazil that runs on ethanol today--not the 
United States. Germany leads the world in solar power, not the United 
States. In the meantime, oil companies are awash in record profits, 
more than $155 billion in profits alone last year, at the same time not 
spending enough on refineries or alternative energy, while guess who is 
getting it in the neck: the consumers at the pump.

Then, even worse, it took the United States more than 30 years to 
raise mileage standards on cars and trucks to a paltry 35 miles per 
gallon, something that will not even be in effect until the year 2020. 
And is it not interesting that most of Europe and the cars U.S.-based 
manufacturers sell there already average 43 miles per gallon, and in 
Japan the cars are approaching 50-miles-a-gallon.

In other words, we are wasting, flat out wasting billions and 
billions of gallons of oil. So, again, what are we to do? Well, about 
half of the oil we consume goes into transportation, and it should not 
take a rocket scientist to realize that is where we ought to focus. So, 
first, if we start to enact serious conservation measures, and things 
such as a 40-miles-per-gallon mandate for the fleet average of our 
personal vehicles, and if we provided greater tax breaks for hybrid 
cars, and ultimately hydrogen-powered and electric-powered cars, then 
we are going to start making a difference.

Second, the Government, our Government, led by our next President, is 
going to have to enact and subsidize a national energy program to 
transform us from our energy dependence on oil, especially foreign oil, 
to alternative and synthetic fuels to power much of the transportation 
sector.

Members of the Senate, it has been done before. Remember in the 
1960s, President Kennedy led us to conquer the bounds of Earth, to go 
to the Moon and return, and all of that occurred within a decade. So we 
have got to act with the same urgency. And while we are at it, we are 
going to have to make ethanol, ethanol that we will make from things we 
do not eat so we do not reduce our food supply.

While we are at that, we are also going to have to pay attention to 
how we power not only our cars and our trucks, but our homes and our 
industry. We are going to need to develop solar, wind, thermal energy, 
and hydroelectric. And who knows the advances of technology in 
harnessing renewable energy sources. We are going to have to look for 
electricity that is from safer nuclear power.

Now, this is what our Presidential candidates ought to be hearing and 
ultimately before this election they ought to be making a pledge to the 
American people that they are going to do this. In the 10 years going 
forward that it would take to bring in new oil rigs fully to market, in 
that 10 years, if we are good stewards of what we have, we will have 
conserved more oil than we ever get out of the ground, and we will be 
mostly free from foreign oil by enacting this energy plan.

Our future will not be realized by looking backward to the short-term 
polluting and dirty energy solutions of the last century, solutions 
they still offer for the future, solutions by people who do not want to 
change their ways, such as oil companies.

So should we start drilling right now in very environmentally 
sensitive areas? To use Mr. Samuelson's words in his column, ''That is 
sheer stupidity.''

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.