# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `c2fc392ad0f61b2f5c286fdf426f0a36`
`Mr. DURBIN — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I come to the Chamber to discuss DeMint 
amendment No. 11 which relates to earmark reform.

First, let me say that I welcome the Senator's efforts to strengthen 
this bill. We certainly all have a mutual interest in making this 
process more transparent. Senator DeMint, in his amendment language, 
adopts the language passed by the House in several important ways. As 
we move through the process, we are going to work together to ensure 
that the earmark provisions are carefully crafted and as strong as 
possible.

Unfortunately, overall the DeMint language is not ready for this 
bill. The DeMint amendment defines earmarks to include amounts provided 
to any entity, including both non-Federal and Federal entities. The 
Reid-McConnell definition which is before the Senate covers only non-
Federal entities. On its face, the DeMint language may sound 
reasonable. After all, I have no problem announcing to the world when I 
have secured funding for the Rock Island Arsenal in my State. But the 
DeMint language is actually unworkable because it is so broad.

What does the Appropriations Committee do? It allocates funds among 
programs and activities. Every appropriations bill is a long list of 
funding priorities. In the DeMint amendment, every single appropriation 
in the bill--and there may be thousands in any given appropriations 
bill--would be subject to this new disclosure requirement, even though 
in most cases the money is not being earmarked for any individual 
entity. How did we reach this point in the debate?

There is a concern expressed by some that there is an abuse of the 
earmark process. When you read the stories of some people who have been 
indicted, convicted, imprisoned because of earmarks, it is 
understandable. There was a corruption of the process. But as a member 
of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I tell my colleagues that by 
and large there is a race to the press release. Once you put an earmark 
in to benefit someone in a bill, you are quick to announce it--at least 
I am because I have gone through a long process evaluating these 
requests and come up with what I think are high priorities. So there is 
transparency and there is disclosure.

The purpose of our debate here is to consider reasonable changes in 
the rules to expand that disclosure. Senator DeMint is talking about 
something that goes way beyond the debate that led to this particular 
bill. We are not talking in his amendment about money that goes to non-
Federal entities--private companies, for example--or States or local 
units of government. Senator DeMint now tells us that we have to go 
through an elaborate process when we decide, say, within the Department 
of Defense bill that money in an account is going to a specific Federal 
agency or installation. That is an expansion which goes way beyond any 
abuse which has been reported that I know of. Frankly, it would make 
this a very burdensome responsibility.

If I asked the chairman, for example, to devote more funds to the 
Food and Drug Administration to improve food safety--think of that, 
food safety, which is one of their responsibilities--that is 
automatically an earmark under the new DeMint amendment, subject to 
broad reporting requirements. No one can be shocked by the suggestion 
that the Food and Drug Administration is responsible for food safety. 
They share that responsibility, but it is one of theirs under the law. 
So if I am going to put more money into food safety, why is that being 
treated as an earmark which has to go through an elaborate process? I 
think that begs the question. Every request, every program, money for 
No Child Left Behind, for medical research at the National Cancer 
Institute, for salaries for soldiers, for combat pay for those serving 
in Iraq, for veterans health programs, every one of them is now 
considered at least suspect, if not an odious earmark, under the DeMint 
amendment. It is not workable. It goes too far.

In other instances, the DeMint amendment does not go far enough. To 
pass this amendment at this time could, down the road, harm the 
Senate's efforts to achieve real earmark reform.

Many of us on the Appropriations Committee happen to believe that the 
provisions in tax bills, changes in the Tax Code, can be just as 
beneficial to an individual or an individual company as any single 
earmark in an appropriations bill. If we are going to have transparency 
in earmark appropriations, I believe--and I hope my colleagues share 
the belief--that should also apply to tax favors, changes in the Tax 
Code to benefit an individual company or a handful of companies. The 
DeMint amendment does not go far enough in terms of covering these 
targeted tax benefits. The language already in the Reid-McConnell 
bipartisan bill strengthens the earmark provisions passed by the Senate 
last year by also covering targeted tax and trade benefits. The Reid-
McConnell language on targeted tax benefits is superior to the DeMint 
amendment. The DeMint amendment, in fact, weakens this whole aspect of 
targeted tax credits and their disclosure.


Reid-McConnell covers ''any revenue provision that has practical 
effect of


providing more favorable tax treatment to a particular taxpayer or a 
limited group of taxpayers when compared with other similarly situated 
taxpayers.'' That is the language from which we are working. Consider 
what it says: favorable tax treatment to a particular taxpayer or a 
limited group of taxpayers compared to others similarly situated. That 
is a pretty broad definition. It means that if you are setting out to 
give 5, 10, 15, or 20 companies a break and several hundred don't get 
the break, that is a targeted tax credit which requires more 
disclosure, more transparency.

The DeMint amendment covers revenue-losing provisions that provide 
tax credits, deductions, exclusions, or preferences to 10 or fewer 
beneficiaries or contains eligibility criteria that are not the same 
for other potential beneficiaries. The Senate should not be writing a 
number such as 10 into this law or into the Senate rules, creating an 
incentive for those who want a tax break to find 11 beneficiaries to 
escape the DeMint amendment.

The Reid-McConnell amendment establishes a definition with 
flexibility so that facts and circumstances of the particular tax 
provision can be considered. There may be instances when a tax benefit 
that helps 100 or even 1,000 beneficiaries should be considered a 
limited tax benefit. Our bill provides that. The DeMint amendment 
weakens it and means that more of these targeted tax credits will 
escape scrutiny.

Second, in the interest of full disclosure, the Reid-McConnell 
approach requires that the earmark disclosure information be placed on 
the Internet 48 hours before consideration of the bills or reports that 
contain earmarks. The DeMint amendment does not have a similar 
provision. Why would he want to weaken the reporting requirement? That 
is, in fact, what he does. Under the DeMint amendment, information 
about earmarks must be posted 48 hours after it is received by the 
committee, not 48 hours before consideration of the bill. In the case 
of a fast-moving bill, it is possible that the information could be 
made public only after the vote has already been taken. So this 
provision actually weakens reporting requirements.

Finally, it is important that the House and Senate have language that 
works for both bodies. Technical changes are probably needed in the 
current language in both bills, changes that may come about during the 
course of a conference. Adopting the imperfect House language 
wholesale, as Senator DeMint suggests, would make it more difficult for 
us to work out our differences in conference. The better course would 
be to address the final language in conference and not get locked into 
any particular words at this moment.

We need strong reforms in the earmarking process. The Reid-McConnell 
bipartisan amendment does that. Unfortunately, DeMint amendment No. 11 
weakens it--first, in exempting more targeted tax credits instead of 
being more inclusive; second, in weakening reporting requirements 
already in this amendment; and finally, tying the hands of conferees by 
adopting House language that has already been enacted by that body.

The Reid-McConnell substitute is an excellent first step. I am afraid 
the DeMint amendment does not improve on that work product but detracts 
from it. To adopt this amendment will only take us backward in this 
process. I urge the Senate to oppose the DeMint amendment No. 11. Let's 
keep working on this issue together on a bipartisan basis.
















Amendment No. 13


I would also like to discuss DeMint amendment No. 13. This amendment 
on the surface seems like a harmless amendment. Nobody wants a 
Government shutdown. But in truth, what amendment No. 13 does is 
encourage Congress to abdicate its appropriations responsibility and 
fund the Government on automatic pilot at the lowest levels of the 
previous year's budget or the House- and Senate-passed levels. That is 
what we are in the process of doing for this fiscal year. It is 
painful. But the results could be disastrous if it becomes the policy 
of our country. Funding the Government by continuing resolutions does 
not allow Members to adequately work for a consensus to adjust funding 
for new challenges and changing priorities. The responsibility to 
appropriate was duly outlined for the legislative branch by our 
forefathers in our Constitution. It is a duty we should not abandon by 
handing it over to some automatic process.

The Senator from South Carolina has argued that this amendment is 
needed so that Congress should not feel the pressure to finish 
appropriations bills on time. He is plain wrong. If there is anything 
we need, it is the pressure to finish on time. If we are under that 
pressure, it is more likely we will respond to it. But if we are going 
to glide into some automatic pilot CR that absolves us from our 
responsibility of passing appropriations bills, we will find ourselves 
in future years facing the same mess we face this year, when many of 
the most important appropriations bills were not enacted before the 
last Congress adjourned.

Our constituents look to us to complete our appropriations bills on 
time, not make it easy to govern by stopgap measures that underfund 
important priorities such as education, transportation, and health 
care. Incidentally, the last time Congress completed its appropriations 
process on time was the 1995 fiscal year. Rather than abdicate our 
responsibility, we need to focus on fulfilling that duty under the 
Constitution. I believe this DeMint amendment is not responsible. It 
signals our willingness to throw in the towel before the fight has even 
started.

I urge my fellow Senators to oppose this amendment, send a clear 
message to the American people that we are ready to accept our 
responsibilities and not avoid them.

I yield the floor.