---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `c315062a72b45d5f0a7fd0c53dfd4bdf`
`Mr. LEVIN — 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, we have these two nominations before us. I 
understand the vote on the two nominations will take place at 2 p.m. or 
thereabouts.

The Senate Armed Services Committee unanimously approved the 
nomination of General Petraeus for reappointment to the grade of 
general and to be commander of the U.S. Central Command, and also the 
nomination of LTG Raymond Odierno for appointment to the grade of 
general to be commander of the Multinational Force Iraq. The 
confirmation of these nominations will provide a continuity of senior 
military leadership for the region and for Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
This continuity in U.S. military leadership will be helpful in working 
with regional and Iraqi political and military leaders.

General Petraeus brings a large amount of experience and leadership 
to the position of CENTCOM commander. He has served over 30 years in 
the military, including 3 tours of duty in Iraq, first as commander of 
the 101st Airborne Division, then as commander of the Multinational 
Security Transition Command Iraq, and since February of 2007, as 
commander of the Multinational Force Iraq. As the Multinational Force 
Iraq commander, General Petraeus has led a shift in tactics in Iraq, 
helping to calm, hopefully permanently, very violent sectarian 
conflict.

If confirmed as CENTCOM commander, General Petraeus would continue to 
oversee the U.S. troops in Iraq, drawing on his knowledge of the 
situation on the ground and his working relationships with Iraqi 
political and military leaders. He would also be responsible for 
addressing an increasingly violent insurgency in Afghanistan and other 
important national security interests throughout the CENTCOM region.

General Odierno is well qualified for his new duties, with 32 years 
of uniformed service, including 2 tours in Iraq, first as commander of 
the 4th Infantry Division, and until recently as commander, 
Multinational Corps Iraq, in which he worked directly under the command 
of General Petraeus. He has assisted the change in operational approach 
in Iraq toward counterinsurgency. He understands that Iraqis must 
achieve political reconciliation to unite their country and to provide 
more effective governance for Iraq. He understands the importance of 
and is committed to increasing the Iraqi security forces technical 
capability, professionalism, evenhandedness, and full integration so 
they can eventually assume total and effective responsibility for their 
own nation's stability. He understands the recent gains in reducing 
violence, controlling militias, and rejection of al-Qaida must be 
supported and expanded by an Iraqi Government which grows more capable 
and is more attuned to meeting the needs of the Iraqi people. And most 
importantly, General Odierno understands the necessity for Iraqi 
political leaders to take responsibility for their own country--to take 
responsibility politically, economically, and militarily.

So our country, I believe, is indebted to the service of General 
Petraeus and General Odierno for their willingness to continue that 
service, and we are also indebted to their families for the sacrifices 
those families endure when their two loved ones spend so much time in 
such difficult areas.

I urge my colleagues to support these two nominations.