---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS ACT
## `c3198c0487bba87e69659bc4c44f7013`
`Ms. VELAZQUEZ — 30 October 2007`

---


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, this is simple. This motion to recommit 
will take away contracts from veterans with service disabilities.

At this time, I would like to submit for the Record a letter from the 
American Legion that clearly states, ''We steadfastly oppose any 
amendments to alter the legislation's provisions that assist veteran-
owned businesses in section 101.''























The American Legion,

















 Washington, DC, October 17, 2007.


 Hon. Nydia M. Velazquez,


 Chairwoman, House Committee on Small Business,


 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, DC.



 Dear Chairwoman Velazquez: On behalf of the 2.7 million 


 members of The American Legion I am writing to strongly 


 endorse the Small Business Contracting Program Improvements 


 Act, which is scheduled for markup in the Committee on Small 


 Business as early as this week. Further, we steadfastly 


 oppose any amendments to alter the legislation's provisions 


 that assist veteran-owned businesses in section 101.



 Recently, the entrepreneurial needs of America's veterans 


 have been brought to the forefront, particularly those that 


 have sustained a disability as a result of their active-duty 


 service in the armed forces. With nearly a quarter of newly 


 discharged veterans considering starting their own 


 businesses, the importance of opening the federal marketplace 


 to veterans, who are entrepreneurs, has never before been so 


 important.



 Unfortunately, there has been no appreciable progress 


 toward meeting the three percent service-connected disabled 


 veterans' government-wide contracting goal. Federal agencies 


 have fallen well short, accomplishing levels of only 0.2 


 percent in 2003; 0.4 percent in 2004; 0.6 percent in 2005; 


 and 0.9 percent in 2006. As a result, Congress must take 


 stronger action.



 We are pleased that the Small Business Contracting Program 


 Improvements Act takes the clear and compelling action 


 necessary to ensure that veterans receive their fair share of 


 federal contracting opportunities. This legislation will 


 result in increases to contracts awarded to veteran-owned 


 companies. As the veterans' community continues to grow, the 


 time is now to enact this important initiative.



 We thank you, Chairwoman Velazquez, for introducing this 


 legislation and we applaud the Committee for moving this 


 measure in an expeditious manner. The American Legion looks 


 forward to working with the Committee on this and future 


 legislation to assist this country's small businesses.





 Sincerely,

























 James E. Koutz,













 Chairman, National Economic Commission.


The ranking member knows that this amendment was introduced in the 
committee's markup and it was defeated 16-8.

Further, let me say that the underlying bill ensures that service-
disabled veterans are given a preference in seeking Federal contracts. 
These individuals have consistently been shut out of the Federal 
contracts. Despite a 3 percent service-disabled veteran contracting 
goal since 1999, the highest accomplishment is less than 1 percent. 
These men and women have served our country, and they deserve better.

If the motion to recommit is adopted, and I want to make this clear, 
if this motion to recommit is adopted, veterans will no longer be a top 
priority. There will be no guarantee that service-disabled veterans 
will benefit from additional contracting opportunities. Instead, we 
would have competing programs, which is what we tried in this bill to 
rid ourselves of. Agencies will be more inclined to overlook disabled 
veterans in their award for sole source contracts.

And also, I would like to add for the Record, that this type of 
change is opposed by the American Legion, the National Black Chamber of 
Commerce, the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the U.S. Women's Chamber of 
Commerce, and the Associated General Contractors.

This motion will block business opportunity for service-disabled 
veterans. The American Legion opposed this motion, and we agree that 
this motion to recommit will be making it harder for veterans to secure 
Federal contracts.

You know, these are men and women coming back to our country from 
Afghanistan and Iraq. These are injured, service-disabled veterans who 
deserve the support of the American public and our Federal Government.

I ask Members to oppose this motion to recommit. As I mentioned, it 
was defeated 16-8 in the markup. This is merely an attempt at a second 
bite of the apple, and it should be defeated.