---
---

# None
## `c319b57153f2fa75f770d0ba3592725c`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, it is an honor to be here on the 
floor once again on behalf of the 30-Something Working Group. I am glad 
to be joined by my good friend, Mr. Ryan, from Niles, Ohio, who has 
joined me on a number of occasions here. We have joined one another.



We look forward to other members of the 30-Something Working Group 
joining us here on the floor.

There is a lot going on in the Capitol Building today, a lot of 
committees meeting, Madam Speaker. A number of bills are moving through 
the process, and the American people are being served, with a new 
attitude of the U.S. House of Representatives, especially 110th 
Congress, that we will work as every American does. We will punch in at 
the beginning of the week and punch out at the end of the week and work 
on the weekends sometimes. So that is a good attitude to have, 
especially when you have two wars going on. You have the President 
passing on a budget that the American people don't see eye to eye with, 
nor this Congress sees eye to eye with. But we will work those issues 
out, and we will talk about them a little further as we move along.

One of the other things that I think that we can touch on are some of 
the findings, that now these committees are meeting and we have some 
level of oversight, Madam Speaker, that we are going to find out some 
things that have been happening in Iraq or what has not been happening 
in Iraq.

We are also going to learn more about the President's budget as we 
move along. And I am having a copy of the budget brought to us here on 
the floor because I want to make sure that the American people and 
definitely the Members get an opportunity to see this big document. 
Yesterday and today the Ways and Means Committee held hearings and had 
the Secretary of the Treasury and now the Office of Management and 
Budget Director here before the committee today. And there are a lot of 
questions that are being asked, and very few are being answered. And we 
will talk about a little of that today.

But once again, I yield to my good friend Mr. Ryan from Niles, Ohio. 
I am glad that you are here and am looking forward to talking about 
some of the issues that are facing this Congress and the American 
people.