---
---

# None
## `c330c32a5ee245071eaf2a530f8bfe17`
`Mr. ENGEL — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. ENGEL. I thank my good friend, the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. 
Rush) for his hard work on this important issue. We are so delighted, 
Bobby, to see you back. We look forward to continuing our work with 
you. Thank you so much for everything you have done, and, also, the 
gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. Terry).

I would to also thank our chairman of the Energy and Commerce 
Committee, Mr. Dingell, the gentleman


from Michigan for his strong support of this legislation.

This passed unanimously out of the Energy and Commerce Committee in a 
bipartisan way and in no small part due to the people I have mentioned 
before. I also want to thank the dedicated majority and minority staffs 
of the Consumer Protection and Telecommunications subcommittees for 
their diligent work in crafting an excellent bipartisan, compromise 
bill.

Madam Speaker, the prepaid calling card market is a $4 billion 
industry. In a recent independent study it was found that, on average, 
companies failed to provide 40 percent of the minutes guaranteed by the 
card, costing consumers hundreds of millions of dollars a year.

This fraud harms segments of the population who are least able to 
afford it, the poor, recent immigrants, minorities and seniors, and the 
companies don't stop there. They have even preyed upon our soldiers in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. This is unconscionable and obviously un-American. 
This legislation would end the deception and the fraud that these 
people have suffered at the hands of unscrupulous companies.

Now, the bottom line for this bill is this is a consumer protection 
bill. If we are in favor of protecting the consumer, then we should 
vote for this bill, because it's very, very simple. People have a right 
to know that when they buy a prepaid calling card, what they see is 
what they get. If a card says you get 60 minutes of calling time, then 
that consumer who buys the card is entitled to 60 minutes of calling 
time.

What we find in little small print that nobody can see or understand, 
there are so many hidden fees. Some calling cards say that you only can 
get the 60 minutes if you call at certain times. But if you don't call 
at other times, you don't get the minutes. Then the time you get the 
minutes is only from 2 to 4 a.m., which is ridiculous. Some cards 
charge you 3 units, 3 minutes of call time if you get a busy signal. Or 
3 minutes of call time if you are just connected, as for a connection 
charge, even if it was across the street or in the same State.

So consumers don't want to think they are being defrauded. Consumers 
are entitled to get what they pay for. Sometimes there are companies 
that are very legitimate. Most of the companies are legitimate.

If a company says that you get 60 minutes of calling card, and it's a 
legitimate card, and that card may be a little bit more expensive than 
the fraudulent card, the unsuspecting consumer will buy the cheaper 
card thinking that he or she will get a better deal, when, in reality, 
the 60 minutes may only be 30 or 32 or 35 minutes.

The bottom line is this, if you are for the consumer, if you are for 
truth in marketing, then you should support this bill. If you are not, 
and you want things to go along the way they have been, then don't vote 
for the bill.

I am so delighted that we have bipartisan consideration on this and 
that, in a bipartisan fashion, we all agree that this is something that 
really should pass.

Nobody, nobody should be against this, not the telecom companies, not 
consumer groups, not any Members of Congress.

If we want to stand for legitimacy and say that we want to protect 
the consumer, and that we want people to understand that when they 
purchase something, they know what they are getting, then we ought to 
all vote for this bill.

I thank my colleagues. This is a tremendous victory for the consumers 
in America.