---
---

# VETERANS HEALTH CARE BUDGET REFORM AND TRANSPARENCY ACT OF 2009
## `c332545fe5032bb15d9bcf944881b1cd`
`Mr. HARE — 23 June 2009`

---


Mr. HARE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1016, the 
Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act of 2009, and 
let me thank Chairman Bob Filner for introducing this important 
legislation.

In the 110th Congress, we gave the VA its largest funding increase in 
77 years, and we did it on time. But, sadly, punctual VA funding has 
not always been the case. The VA received it's annual funding for 
health care programs late in the last 19 of 22 years.

This record of tardiness is deplorable. With the ongoing wars in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, the time to fix this broken system is now. Late 
funding is more than a missed deadline. It is a veteran with 
posttraumatic stress disorder who cannot access a treatment he or she 
needs. It is an injured hero who must wait for a prosthetic. It is a VA 
in disarray at a time when our wounded warriors are counting now more 
than ever on the department's services. That's why in the last 
Congress, I introduced the Assured Funding for Veterans Health Care 
Act. This bill would have replaced the annual appropriated 
discretionary funding for veterans health care with permanent direct 
spending authority.

Like the bill I introduced, advanced appropriations is the means to 
that end. That end is ensuring veterans receive the best possible care 
from a VA that has access to timely, sufficient, and predictable 
resources. The legislation that we're considering today will do just 
that. It will allow the VA to effectively budget and manage its health


care programs and services, meaning it can hire the appropriate number 
of doctors, nurses, clinicians, and support staff to meet the demand 
for high-quality care for our veterans. Anything less is unacceptable.

I'd also like to acknowledge and commend Chairman David Obey and 
Chairman Edwards for their strong proactive leadership in putting in an 
advanced appropriation for VA health care in the fiscal year 2010 
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill.

I enthusiastically support H.R. 1016, and I once again want to thank 
Chairman Filner for drafting a bill that would ensure the VA has 
sufficient, timely, and predictable funding.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation.