---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE DEDICATED SERVICE OF UNITED STATES AIRMAN LIEUTENANT  COLONEL RICKEY O. HARRINGTON
## `c33496911049dcd486dc5da991f6d8bf`
`Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi — 9 June 2010`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
and pay tribute to Lieutenant Colonel Rickey O. Harrington, for 22 
years of exceptional service and dedication to the United States Air 
Force.

Colonel Harrington will be retiring from active duty on September 30, 
2010. He has most recently served as the Pentagon's Chief of Air Force 
Reserve Directorate of Personnel for the Chief Force Support and 
Sustainment Branch.

As a native of Itta Bena, Mississippi, Colonel Harrington entered the 
Air Force in 1988 as a distinguished graduate of the Reserve Officers' 
Training Corps at Mississippi Valley State University.

In October 1988, then Second Lieutenant Harrington began his career 
as a Personnel Officer in the Consolidated Base Personnel Office at 
Bergstrom Air Force Base, Texas.

In September of 1990 Colonel Harrington became newly promoted First 
Lieutenant Harrington and was deployed to Operation Desert Shield/
Desert Storm as Chief, Personnel Support Contingency Operations Team at 
Al Minhad Air Base, United Arab Emirates providing the full scale 
support to nearly 3,000 airmen.

Colonel Harrington would go on after this deployment to serve in a 
variety of staff and leadership positions both stateside and overseas. 
During his career he has served as a Section Commander, Executive 
Officer, Squadron Commander, Inspector and Action Officer at the wing 
and Headquarters level. Most notably, he was on-duty as Executive 
Officer to the Director of Personnel Accountability at the Air Force 
Personnel Center responsible for running the Air Force Casualty 
Operations Center during the bombing of Khobar Towers where 19 brave 
service men lost their lives and during the airplane crash in Germany 
carrying then Secretary of Commerce Ron Brown. During this crisis, 
Colonel Harrington ensured that all levels of leadership were kept 
abreast of ongoing issues and ensured humane and dignified notification 
of next of kin while honoring the memory of those who fell in these 
tragedies.

He also served as the Deputy Support Group Commander at Khandahar Air 
Base, Afghanistan in 2003 in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. 
Over the past 4 years Colonel Harrington has worked tirelessly on 
behalf of the Air Force Reserve as the lone active duty member on their 
Personnel Staff.

As the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have led to increased use of our 
reserve forces, he has championed many initiatives, both in policy and 
in law, that have enhanced recruiting, retention, benefits and 
entitlements for these dedicated airmen.

His efforts have helped to sustain a viable, ready trained force 
capable of meeting the needs of Combatant Commanders to protect our 
Nation and achieve objectives of national interest.

In addition to upholding the highest standards of professional 
conduct as a military officer, Colonel Harrington has also labored to 
enhance the communities he's lived in through his affiliation with 
various churches, civic organizations and as a life member of Alpha Phi 
Alpha Fraternity, Incorporated.

Madam Speaker, I ask my Colleagues to join me in expressing our 
sincere thanks to Colonel Harrington and his family for their 
unwavering support of our country and their dedication to preserving 
our Nation's freedom. Congratulations, and thank you for your service.
