---
---

# None
## `c3443b5250388de66e218fbc0fc5fd04`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, this amendment is a simple, 
commonsense amendment that requires the President to submit a report to 
Congress on the long-term costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

On June 28 of this year, Chairman Murtha sent a Dear Colleague letter 
out talking about this very problem and the need to make sure that we 
are being given accurate information. We have now been engaged in the 
war in Afghanistan for almost 7 years and the war in Iraq for over 5 
years, and the Bush administration has yet to submit a long-term 
estimate for the costs of the war. The administration has not submitted 
a cost estimate, despite a statutory reporting requirement for fiscal 
years 2006 through 2011 that was required in the fiscal year 2005 
defense appropriation budget.

As someone who took great interest in the Iraq Study Group report and 
the massive commitment to the future of Iraq in both blood and 
treasure, I looked forward to the publication of the Independent Review 
Group report that was issued in the wake of the Walter Reed Building 18 
fiasco.

One of the things that was recognized in that report was the fact 
that the Nation must recognize that there is a moral, human and 
budgetary cost of the war. When we engage in armed conflict, we must 
recognize those costs and be prepared to execute on those obligations.

The Independent Review Group's report, chaired by General Togo West, 
also identified the four signature wounds of this war: Traumatic brain 
injury, posttraumatic stress disorder, increased survival of severe 
burns, and traumatic amputations.

Mr. Chairman, despite the fact that the Bush administration has not 
provided the required cost reporting, Nobel Prize winning economist 
Joseph Stiglitz has published a study talking about these exact costs, 
not just the long-term medical costs, but the cost of rebuilding our 
military in the book ''The $3 Trillion War.''

One of the things we know is that young men who are severely injured, 
many of them age 19 or 20, are going to have permanent injuries from 
these signature wounds, many of them over a life expectancy that may 
stretch out 55 or 60 years. We also know that there are life-care plans 
used by medical economists and prosthetic needs analysis that are used 
to determine what those long-term costs are. The American people, the 
American taxpayers, deserve to know what these costs will be.

We have already spent $700 billion in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the 
people of this country deserve to know from the Department of Defense 
what these long-term costs are going to be over the lifetime of these 
wounded warriors.



For that reason I have asked that this amendment be included as part 
of the defense authorization bill to address the long-term and hidden 
costs of the war. And those are reflected in the testimony of 
Lieutenant General Chip Rodman at the Independent Review Group hearing 
that we held in oversight who said, we recognize the cost is immense, 
and it is our moral obligation to address those issues.

I reserve the balance of my time.