---
---

# None
## `c358549295fd0abaa91dd7413cd0cba2`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 17 July 2007`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. I am glad we got one of them. Maybe we can start a 
momentum here.

Mr. President, I never thought I would see the day in the Senate when 
there would be essentially a gag rule on the subject of war, 
essentially a gag rule preventing us from voting on the deployment of 
our troops and a framework for them to be able to come home. We are 
supposed to be the world's greatest deliberative body, but the other 
party has chosen to throw sand in the gears to give us a vote where we 
would present a framework.

The previous speaker talked about that we Democrats present a 
strategy du jour on the war. I challenge that statement and say it is 
the White House that gives us a strategy du jour, a strategy of the 
week, always changing goals. When the war was originally voted for, it 
was to get rid of Saddam Hussein and get rid of weapons of mass 
destruction. Saddam is gone and there were no weapons of mass 
destruction. If that was the goal of the war, come back home. Then it 
was to create democracy in Iraq. Now it is to secure Baghdad. It is a 
goal and a strategy du jour.


We have to come up with the right kind of framework, but we also need 
to be able to offer our votes. Mr. President, 47 times this year the 
Republican minority has threatened a filibuster on a variety of bills 
that we want to bring up on both domestic and foreign policy; 47 times 
they have threatened a filibuster, and now they have gone too far. Now 
the other party refuses to give us a vote on the most important issue 
we face: the war in Iraq and the deployment of our troops.

Our President talks about building a democratic Iraq. We should start 
with building democracy right here in the Senate.

Democracy is built on fundamental principles. One of the fundamental 
principles is freedom of speech, but not in the Senate. We are in a gag 
rule. We face strong-arm tactics to prevent our vote on a troop 
deadline.

Another fundamental principle of democracy is majority rule, but not 
in the Senate. It now takes 60 votes to win a vote. The reason we 
objected to the cloture is to end the filibuster. But we want to end 
the war, and that is why our unanimous consent request is a direct vote 
on that point. They want to hide behind parliamentary procedure. We 
want to go directly to the point.

Our Constitution calls for a system of checks and balances, but that 
is not what the White House wants. They want us to write the checks, 
but tonight we are trying to provide the balance. That is why we stand 
here the way we do.

Some people say Democrats are micromanaging the war. Well, hey, 
someone has to manage it, and it is about time. For the last 5 years, 
Congress has been under the rule of the other party. It has been a 
rubberstamp for the Bush administration. The results have been 
devastating to our military, to America's standing in the world, to the 
Iraqi people. We had troops sent to battle with inadequate protection 
and no plan for victory. We had modest international support, and now 
that is dwindling. Our former Secretary of Defense was imperious and 
turned a blind eye to cronyism and corruption at every level of the 
reconstruction.

You know what, it is time for someone to manage the war, and we are 
ready to do it. We are ready to lead. We just need to have a vote.

It is time to stop talking, it is time for action, and it is time for 
the Senate to have its say and its day on an actual vote.

This isn't about theater, it is not about polls, and it is not about 
politics. It is about the will of the American people. It is about 
honoring democratic principles. It is about doing the job we were 
elected to do.

I support the bipartisan amendment of Levin, Reed, and Hagel and 
other Republicans because it begins the process of bringing our troops 
home. But it not only brings them home, it brings them home safely and 
swiftly.

The Iraqis must understand the future of their nation is now in their 
hands, and our troops have to understand that the Congress is with them 
and we want to be with them when they are on the battlefield and when 
they come home. We believe the best way to support our troops is to 
create a framework to bring them home swiftly and safely.

There are those who want to talk about alternatives. There are those 
who are blocking the vote on this amendment saying it is too soon to 
withdraw. They have suddenly discovered the recommendations of the Iraq 
Study Group, something I supported 7 months ago, 210 days ago.

Mr. President, 210 days ago, the Iraq Study Group gave us a 
framework. They called it a way forward. They had 79 recommendations. I 
stood on this floor and said out of the 79, certainly there were 60 on 
which we could agree. Let's have a meeting, let's pick our favorite 60, 
and let's start moving forward on a military solution, a political 
solution, a diplomatic solution, but a solution it would be.

It was dismissed. It was dismissed by the other party, the other side 
of the wall, the other side of the aisle--it seems like a wall 
sometimes--and it was dismissed by the President of the United States.

So now all of a sudden they found the Iraq Study Group. Seven months 
ago that Iraq Study Group did call for diplomatic and political 
efforts. I think we make those efforts, and I also think that is 
included in the spirit and substance of Levin-Reed-Hagel-Snowe and 
others amendment.

Now is the day that we should refocus our mission in Iraq and also 
follow the path forward that was recommended and have our troops home 
by April 1, 2008. We know the Levin-Reed-Hagel, et al, amendment 
directs the Secretary of Defense to begin reducing the number of U.S. 
forces in Iraq no later than 120 days to begin those important 
diplomatic and political strategies. And it also leaves U.S. forces 
there for three missions: protecting other U.S. troops, completing the 
training of Iraq troops, and engaging in targeted counterterrorism 
operations. But it also requires them to complete it by April 30, 2008. 
This is what I advocate.

I am not new to this position. I never wanted to go to war in the 
first place. You see, I read all those intelligence reports, and I 
never believed that the President should be granted unilateral 
authority to engage in a war where there was no imminent threat to the 
United States of America. I was one of 23. Four years ago on October 
11, I opposed the President giving this authority and asked that we 
exhaust our diplomatic options, asked us to stick with the U.N., and I 
said: I am just so concerned that I don't know if our troops will be 
met with a parade or a landmine. We know where we are. So off we went. 
We went to war with Iraq, and now we are at war within Iraq. Saddam is 
gone, but we are still there mired in a civil war.

No one could ask more of our troops. They have been brave, they have 
been courageous, and they have followed the request of their Commander 
in Chief. We need to look out for them. I believe we will. Other 
aspects of this bill, particularly the Wounded Warriors Act, look out 
for the veterans who have been injured, look out by reforming the 
disability benefits system, look out for the health care they need from 
the VA.

It is time for a new direction. It is time for us to have this vote. 
It is time for the Iraqi elected officials to stand up. Twelve Members 
of the 38-Member Parliament no longer attend Cabinet meetings; 75 
Members of the Iraqi Parliament are boycotting their own Parliament so 
that they cannot get a quorum to do their job, whether it is for oil 
revenue sharing or power sharing.


I think it is time now, I think it is time for us to have a vote. I 
think it is time to refocus the mission. I think it is time to redeploy 
our troops. I think it is time to bring our troops home by April 30, 
2008. And that is why I think it is time to vote on the Levin-Reed 
amendment.

So, Mr. President, I therefore, ask unanimous consent that amendment 
No. 2088 be withdrawn and that at 8:30 p.m. today, the Senate vote on 
the Levin-Reed amendment No. 2087 with the time, in all fairness, 
equally divided on both sides in the usual format, and no second-degree 
amendments be in order.