# None
## `c367383f98399f73d5565cd05ab3b4ea`
`Mr. ABERCROMBIE — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. ABERCROMBIE. Madam Speaker, I would at this point like to thank 
Mr. Mike Turner for working with us and the committee, right from the 
get-go, and also Mr. Phil English as well, to demonstrate what we have 
been saying here that Republicans alone, Democrats alone cannot bring 
this to an end. It requires us all to work together.

Now, there are some, I am sorry to say, on both ends of the spectrum 
of the parties who want to diminish what the bill is all about and what 
its intent is all about. Someone went so far yesterday as to say, well, 
this bill is like naming post offices.

Well, yesterday, we named two post offices for marines that were 
killed in Iraq. I don't suppose the author of that kind of commentary 
would like to speak with the family of the marines who have been killed 
about why these post offices were named.

I think it's pretty important that we concentrate on those who are 
bearing the brunt of the policies that we approve of in this body. 
That's what this is all about. We want to end the party sniping. We 
want to end the commentary about advantages being taken from one party 
or another.

Cover has been mentioned, about whether it would be given to one 
party or another. The only cover that we are interested in is the cover 
that has to be obtained by our fighting men and women in the field, 
because they are engaged in battle as a result of the policies that we 
either approve or disapprove of.

It's time for the Congress to take back its responsibility.

Madam Speaker, I would like to enter into the Record a commentary 
from the Government Accountability Office as of the end of July of this 
year.




 Issues that DOD needs to consider in planning and executing 


 the draw down and redeployment of forces from Iraq:






 Draw Down Scope, Costs, Timetable, and Capacity Issues




 What forces will be drawn down, and over what period of 


 time? (i.e. the process for determining the order in which 


 specific forces will draw down, the timetable for the draw 


 down, and planning for the consolidation and relocation of 


 forces and related force protection issues).



 How will DOD estimate, budget, and report costs associated 


 with the draw down? (i.e. the use of baseline budgets versus 


 GWOT-specific funding requests for related costs, and the 


 determination of which cost elements will be directly 


 associated with draw down and redeployment operations).



 What will be DOD's responsibilities for transporting, 


 protecting, housing, and supporting other government civilian 


 personnel and contractors during the draw down and for those 


 forces that will remain behind? (i.e. civilian personnel from 


 the Department of Defense, State Department, USAID, and 


 defense contractors).



 What forces will stay in theater after the draw down, and 


 what will the footprint be for forces remaining in Iraq and 


 Kuwait? (i.e.




 stabilization forces in Iraq, forces to protect and maintain 


 prepositioned equipment sites in Iraq and Kuwait, and forces 


 to protect the U.S. Embassy in Iraq).



 How much equipment and supplies will be redeployed from 


 Iraq and Kuwait, and over what period of time? (i.e. types of 


 equipment and supplies, numbers and sizes of the pieces of 


 equipment and supplies, tonnage, and amounts and types of 


 shipping vessels that will be needed).



 To what extent does DOD have the capacity in Iraq, Kuwait, 


 and CONUS to support the draw down? (i.e. personnel, 


 facilities, storage, and transportation).



 What equipment will stay in Iraq and Kuwait, and how will 


 this equipment be protected and maintained after the draw 


 down? (i.e. equipment transfers to the ISF and Iraqi forces, 


 prepositioned equipment sites in Iraq and Kuwait, and numbers 


 of maintenance contractors or service members needed to 


 maintain equipment in Iraq and Kuwait).
















Logistics Issues




 What are the logistics elements that DOD will need to 


 consider in the redeployment of troops and other personnel 


 from Iraq and Kuwait? (i.e. personnel security, housing and 


 food, medical support, and airlift requirements).



 What are the logistics elements that DOD will need in the 


 United States to accept and process troops and personnel re-


 entering the United States? (i.e. determining where the 


 troops and personnel will be sent, demobilization 


 requirements, housing and food, medical and dental support, 


 and veteran affairs issues).



 What are the logistics elements that DOD will need to 


 consider in the redeployment of equipment and supplies from 


 Iraq and Kuwait? (i.e. transportation requirements, security 


 and protection of in-transit assets, storage and handling 


 requirements, port operations and facilities, and 


 requirements for shipping containers and vessels).



 How will DOD maintain accountability and visibility over 


 in-transit assets? (i.e. establishing accountability over 


 assets in theater before redeployment, and maintaining 


 accountability and visibility throughout the redeployment 


 process).



 What are the logistics elements that DOD will need in the 


 United States to accept and process equipment and supplies 


 re-entering the United States? (i.e. port operations and 


 facilities, transportation requirements, storage and handling 


 requirements, maintenance requirements, equipment reset 


 requirements, and depot capability and capacity issues).


Rebuilding Unit Capacity and Maintaining Stability in the Region During 












and After the Drawn Down




 How will DOD plan for rebuilding unit capacity and 


 resetting the forces, including establishing goals for 


 readiness levels and investment priorities? (i.e. personnel 


 re-training and re-manning).



 What will be DOD's and other federal agencies' roles and 


 responsibilities regarding Iraqi refugees? (i.e. security, 


 shelter and food, and medical support).



 How will DOD coordinate with coalition forces on the draw 


 down and redeployment processes, and what will be the roles 


 and responsibilities of the coalition forces during and after 


 the draw down? (i.e. coalition forces that will remain in 


 Iraq after the draw down, and force protection issues during 


 the draw down).



 What agreements will DOD need to make with other 


 neighboring countries in the Middle East to facilitate the 


 draw down and redeployment? (i.e. airspace rights, logistics 


 support during redeployment, and roles of other countries in 


 the region in maintaining regional stability).


What issues will the Department of Defense consider in the planning 
and executing of the draw-down and redeployment of forces from Iraq? It 
includes the draw-down, scope, the costs, the timetable, the capacity 
issues, logistics issues. These are the serious and sober subjects of 
what will be presented to us by these redeployment plans.

You cannot have a redeployment by wish fulfillment alone. You have to 
have the practical realities in front of you in order to accomplish it. 
That's what we are seeking to do. That's what the Armed Services 
Committee on a bipartisan basis sought to accomplish with this bill. 
This is serious and sober business.

Section two of the measure states the strategy required ''shall 
include planning to achieve the following.'' That's what we mean by the 
status of the planning. Status of the planning will include the 
transition of combat forces from policing civil strife or sectarian 
violence in Iraq.

It has to include a projection in the number of members the Armed 
Forces required for the missions described in the redeployment. The 
details of what these redeployment plans will encompass are included in 
the bill, and so the preamble that is there that says the original 
resolution has now been accomplished takes us to this final conclusion 
that we reach today, the redeployment of our troops in a responsible 
way and a bipartisan manner.








Permission to Reduce Time for Electronic Voting
