---
---

# None
## `c36ba2597bc7b597b84e350d1a85c9fa`
`Mr. BOCCIERI — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. BOCCIERI. President John Kennedy said, ''A man may die, nations 
may rise and fall, but ideas live on.'' The idea to which many of our 
troops have fought to preserve and protect for our great Nation is the 
idea of freedom--the freedom to live in a country where you can be 
anything you want to be, the freedom to do anything you want to do, and 
the freedom to go anyplace you want to go.

Today, our troops are over in Iraq and Afghanistan so that the people 
of those nations can have even a little of what we take for granted. 
The mark of a great country is that men and women, when called, will 
leave everything behind, sacrifice everything for someone, something, 
someplace they consider greater than themselves.

While the cause of such a noble idea as freedom lives on and our 
troops sacrifice daily on foreign lands, we must maintain constant 
vigilance for life here at home. The issue before us today is one of 
which the very soldiers who fight to spread the idea of freedom to 
countries that don't know it find an ever-fleeting policy that denies 
them the opportunity to be who they want to be and the freedom to do 
what they want to do.

As one who spent 17 years in the military, flying wounded and fallen 
soldiers out of Iraq and Afghanistan, the finest men and women have 
served our Nation, I find it regrettable that, for some, the freedom 
that they're fighting for is not evenly applied.