---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `c370b4651491019e743ed68393ce9d45`
`Mr. CONRAD — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, we are now considering the nomination of 
Congressman Jim Nussle to be the next Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget. I will vote against the confirmation of Mr. 
Nussle. I have informed him this morning that I would cast that vote.

I do not make this decision lightly. I like Jim Nussle. I worked with 
him when he was the House Budget Committee chairman. We have always had 
a good personal relationship. But this goes beyond a personal 
relationship; this is a question of the fiscal policy of the United 
States. Congressman Nussle would be quick to tell you that he has been 
an architect of this fiscal policy. Of course, the key architect has 
been the President of the United States, but Mr. Nussle has been a 
strong ally of the President in constructing this fiscal policy. I 
believe it is a profound mistake for this country and one that simply 
must be changed. To send a signal, I will cast my vote in opposition to 
the confirmation of Mr. Nussle.

Let me say, I voted to move his nomination through the Budget 
Committee. I said at the time that he is clearly qualified, which he 
clearly is. He is, after all, the former chairman of the House Budget 
Committee. But this is a question of what policy do we pursue for the 
future. Congressman Nussle has indicated that in fact he is proud of 
the policy that has been put in place. That is where we profoundly 
disagree. I believe this is a consequential vote, to send a signal on 
what we believe the fiscal policy of the United States should be, going 
forward.

Here is the record. When the President came into office he inherited 
a surplus. In fact, there was a projected surplus at the time of almost 
$6 trillion over the next 10 years. We all know what happened. The 
President turned that into massive and record deficits, in fact, the 
largest deficits in our history. Part of that was because the President 
increased spending and increased it rather dramatically. He increased 
it from $1.9 trillion a year to $2.7 trillion, almost a 50-percent 
increase. We know Iraq was one part of that. He told us at the time 
that he engaged our forces in Iraq that that would cost about $50 
billion; the whole enterprise in Iraq would cost some $50 billion. 
Instead, we are at $567 billion and counting. He has already asked for 
another $50 billion which would take us over $600 billion committed to 
Iraq, 12 times the President's original estimate.

At the same time that spending has gone up dramatically, revenues of 
the country have basically stagnated and stagnated over a 6- or 7-year 
period. Going back to 2000, you can see that real, inflation-adjusted 
revenues of the United States were just over $2 trillion. We didn't get 
back to that amount until last year. This year we are anticipating 
$2.13 trillion in real revenue.

Spending is up dramatically. Real revenue has stagnated. The result 
is deficits and debt have soared and that is precisely what has 
happened. Here is the debt of the United States during this period. We 
have gone from $5.8 trillion at the end of the first year of the 
President's time in office to $8.9 trillion in 2007. That is a stunning 
increase in debt.

Unfortunately, increasingly it is financed from abroad. This is 
foreign holdings of U.S. debt. You can see we have gone from a combined 
total when this President took over of just over $1


trillion of U.S. debt held by foreign entities, and look what has 
happened during this 6 years of this administration. He has more than 
doubled foreign holdings of our debt.

Some of our friends will say that is a sign of strength. I don't know 
in whose mind that is a sign of strength. Owing more countries more 
money doesn't strike me as a sign of strength. In fact, here is the 
list of the 10 top holders of U.S. debt. Japan we now owe over $600 
billion; we owe China over $400 billion; we owe the United Kingdom 
almost $200 billion; we owe the ''Oil Exporters'' $120 billion; we owe 
Brazil, Luxembourg, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea and--my favorite--
the Caribbean Banking Centers. We owe them almost $50 billion as of 
now.

I am always amused to hear our colleagues say they have done this 
with a tax policy that has increased the progressivity of the tax 
system. I don't know what calculation would lead to you that 
conclusion. The fact is, in 2006 alone, those earning over $1 million a 
year got on average a tax cut of almost $120,000--for that year alone. 
Somebody earning less than $100,000 got less than $700 in tax cuts.

Again, those earning over $1 million a year--and I have nothing 
against people being successful financially. I am all for it. I wish 
the success of this country were more broadly shared. That would be a 
good thing. That would be a positive value. But I must say our friends 
on the other side are incredibly focused on helping the very wealthiest 
among us, so they chose a tax policy that gave, on average, to those 
earning over $1 million a year a tax cut approaching $120,000 in 1 
year. That is not my idea of broadly shared tax policy, or one that is 
fair and equitable.

In fact, we know the cost of the President's tax cuts for 2007 alone, 
according to the Congressional Budget Office, is $205 billion. That is 
more than the projected deficit. So for this year the President's tax 
cuts that go overwhelmingly to the most wealthy among us are totally 
and completely responsible for the deficit.

The President's answer is more tax cuts. Here is what we are told 
will happen if the additional tax cuts the President is seeking and the 
current tax cuts are extended. The additional debt that will result is 
the red part of this chart. The green part of the chart is the debt if 
the tax cuts expired or are paid for.

I heard our colleagues on the other side say the budget passed by the 
Democrats had big tax increases. No, it did not. There was no 
assumption of a tax increase of any kind in the budget we passed. In 
fact, we had very dramatic tax relief, tax relief for middle-class 
taxpayers, the continuation of the middle-class tax cuts, as well as 
estate tax reform. We assumed that things would be paid for--not with 
tax increases but by closing tax loopholes, by going after the tax 
gap--the difference between what is owed and what is paid--by closing 
down abusive tax shelters. That is precisely what we ought to be doing 
in this country to stop the tax scams that have exploded.


I have also heard that the economy is performing splendidly. The 
problem with that is if you compare this recovery to the nine previous 
recoveries since World War II, what you see is dramatic 
underperformance. In fact, if you look at real revenues you find we are 
$86 billion short of the typical recovery since World War II.

If we look at job creation, we see we are lagging behind the typical 
recovery since World War II by 7.6 million private sector jobs.

On real business investment, the pattern is the same. We are 63 
percent behind the typical recovery since World War II, in terms of 
real business investment.

In terms of economic growth we see the same pattern. The real GDP 
average annual growth during the nine previous business cycles, the 
nine previous recoveries since World War II, is 3.4 percent; this 
recovery, a tepid 2.5 percent. This is not an economic record one can 
be proud of or be talking about in very positive terms because it is an 
economic recovery that has been among the weakest of the nine major 
recoveries since World War II.

Here is what happens to spending under our budget resolution. We take 
it from 20.5 percent of GDP this year down to 18.9 percent. This is a 
fiscally responsible budget.

With respect to the budget resolution and the difference between it 
and the President's plan, we have only 1 percent more spending than the 
Bush budget--1 percent. And where did that additional spending go? We 
put it into veterans' health care, children's health and education. 
Those ought to be the priorities for this country--to take care of the 
veterans to whom we made a promise when we sent them off to war that 
they would be cared for. This administration did not ask for sufficient 
resources to keep that promise. We did.

On children's health care, we said we ought to begin a process of 
trying to cover all of the children in this country. The administration 
did not agree with that priority, nor did they agree to expand the 
support for education that we think is required if we are going to keep 
our country No. 1.

With respect to overall revenues, it is very interesting to look at 
what the President called for in his budget. He called for $14.826 
trillion in revenue. That is what he called for in his budget scored by 
his own agency: $14.826 trillion. Our budget called for $14.828 
trillion--virtually no difference. When they talk about the largest tax 
increase in history, they are engaging in a figment of their 
imagination.

If you use CBO scoring for both instead of using the President's own 
agency to score his own proposal, which I think is eminently fair--but 
if you use CBO to score both, we have a 2-percent difference in 
revenues and we believe that can be easily achieved by closing abusive 
tax shelters, going after these offshore tax havens, and by beginning 
to close this looming tax cap gap, the difference between what is owed 
and what is paid, with no tax increase at all.

Let me conclude by citing Treasury Secretary Snow. He acknowledged 
the need for a bipartisan approach to solving long-term challenges. He 
said, ''You can't do health care reform or Social Security reform . . . 
without a bipartisan consensus. If we made a mistake, it was not 
approaching it in more of a bipartisan way.''

That is the former Secretary of Treasury under this administration 
lamenting the fact that they were not sufficiently bipartisan. That is 
precisely what is needed in this town, is a more bipartisan approach to 
dealing with the fiscal challenges facing this country.

I hope very much that this administration gets the message that we 
need to change course for the fiscal future of our country.

I yield the floor.