---
---

# None
## `c372ca92fb3db9703eaa905c815fd364`
`Mr. DREIER — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Madam Speaker, what I would like to do is to share with 
our colleagues some of the things that have been done over the past 4 
years.

My friend mentions the fact that this administration has turned their 
back on the issue of corruption in Iraq. Let me just state, there has 
been technical training to build capacity, judicial reform. The 
National Endowment for Democracy has provided grants. There are 
international programs involved. The Iraq Reconstruction Rehabilitation 
Fund has increased the capacity of the Commission on Public Integrity 
by training, mentoring and providing equipment for the Commission on 
Public Integrity investigators, and aiding in corruption prevention 
programs, implementing financial management systems that remove some of 
the opaqueness that enables misuse of public funds to occur.

The U.S. prosecutors who advise and mentor the CCCI judges in all 
manner of serious cases, including anticorruption cases, have received 
support over the past 4 years, Madam Speaker. Judicial reforms have 
taken place, funded with $9 million through the Department of Justice 
in Iraq in fiscal 2006 on anticorruption activities, and this goes on 
and on.

I will include in the Record the items that have been done over the 
past 4 years by this administration to combat the issue of corruption 
in Iraq, including, as I said, grants from the National Endowment for 
Democracy, dealing with human rights issues, and a wide range of other 
entities and a litany of some of the items that have been done.

So it is a gross mischaracterization, Madam Speaker, to argue that 
the administration has turned their back on the issue of corruption in 
Iraq.

 Anti-Corruption Programs in Iraq Provided by the U.S. State Department





 State/Embassy Baghdad support for anti-corruption efforts




 Technical training: build capacity.



 Judicial reform.



 NED Grantees.



 International Programs.


 Technical training: build capacity



 IRRF (Iraq Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Fund) has 


 increased the capacity of the Commission on Public Integrity, 


 CPI, by training, mentoring, and providing equipment for CPI 


 investigators and aiding in corruption prevention programs 


 (implementing financial management systems that remove




 some of the opaqueness that enables misuse of public funds to 


 occur).



 INL funds DOJ Resident Legal Advisors--U.S. prosecutors who 


 advise and mentor CCCI judges in all manner of serious cases, 


 including anti-corruption cases.


 Judicial reforms



 IRRF funded $9 million through DOJ in Iraq in FY06 on anti-


 corruption activities.



 Six advisors work with the Embassy's Office of 


 Accountability and Transparency, OAT, to provide support to 


 the CPI and other Iraqi anti-corruption entities.


 NED Grantees working on anti-corruption and transparency



 Iraqi Human Rights Watch Society is working to build and 


 train a core group of activists on combating corruption.



 Badlisy Cultural Center is working to raise awareness among 


 youth about anti-corruption and transparency in Sulaimaniya 


 province and to encourage cooperation between Iraqi NGOs in 


 the North and their counterparts in the South.



 To expand its democracy training program in Al-Muthan, 


 Dhiqar, and Alqadisiya, the Rafidain Civic Education 


 Institute will train six trainers to conduct 36 workshops 


 targeting students and NGO activists to provide them with the 


 skills to raise awareness of the need to combat corruption.


 International Programs



 On September 26, 2007, the State Department signed a 


 $1,621,700 grant agreement with the Organization for Economic 


 Cooperation and Development, OECD. The OECD has already 


 started working with the Government of Iraq (GOI) to develop 


 and implement a framework more conducive to investment and 


 economic development.











What has the Embassy done recently?




 Anti-corruption efforts are a part of everything we do in 


 Iraq: a multiagency, multi-country approach, at the local, 


 provincial, and national levels. From 2004 to 2006, we 


 focused on building and heavily investing in anticorruption 


 strategies and institutions. In 2007, we created OAT (the 


 Office of Accountability and Transparency) to help coordinate 


 those activities and identify gaps. We increased staff 


 dedicated to anti-corruption activities (recruited qualified 


 people and expanded our focus to include the BSA and IGs). We 


 formed the Iraqi inter-agency anti-corruption team, a multi-


 agency, multi-country team.



 PRTS: provincial success on budget/acquisition 


 accountability processing.



 Well over 50 USG employees work on some aspect of anti-


 corruption activities in Iraq.









 Embassy response to corruption controversy




 The Embassy continues to work with the Iraqi Government to 


 combat public corruption and improve transparency and 


 accountability.



 Support and training contracts are on hold pending clarity 


 of succession at CPI.



 The 11 Iraqi CPI investigators who went to the U.S. for 


 training along with Radhi in mid-August have returned to Iraq 


 and, according to Embassy reports, are eager and ready to 


 investigate corruption, at great personal risk.



 While corruption in Iraq is a serious problem and we are 


 helping Iraqis combat it, this issue does not affect U.S. 


 programs. There is a distinction between GOI activities and 


 USG efforts in Iraq, and the USG has strict checks in place 


 to help combat corruption.


Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.