---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY
## `c373a9ac2d864df1a903eef006f965f6`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. You mentioned bipartisanship. I think, as we are 
closing out here and as we had the vote today on the SCHIP bill, that 
it's important for us to recognize how far away the President is from 
bipartisanship on some of these issues. Here we have the SCHIP, State 
Children's Health Insurance bill. This was a program that was started 
by Newt Gingrich and President Clinton to invest money into the health 
of poor and middle-class kids. The program was $35 billion over 5 
years. It passed this House in a bipartisan way with many, many, many 
Republican votes, mostly Democratic, but many Republican.

The President vetoed this bill twice. So a bipartisan bill drafted by 
Newt Gingrich, signed into law by President Clinton is vetoed a couple 
of times by President Bush. His reason is it costs too much money. It's 
$35 billion over 5 years.

This is the same President that raised the debt limit five times and 
ran up $3 trillion in debt and turns around days later and asks for 
another $200 billion in Iraq, but he doesn't have and doesn't see the 
sense in the investment of $35 billion over 5 years for kids' health 
care. So when you hear ''bipartisan,'' you have got to be skeptical.

Now I want to kick it to who we very affectionately refer to as our 
''mother'' here in Congress, Stephanie Tubbs Jones, who, I know I saw 
her on TV at the Presidential debate the other night, Madam Speaker, 
and I think Mr. Meek, and you were there too, that it seems like Mrs. 
Jones may have gotten more TV time than Hillary Clinton got during the 
Presidential debate.