---
---

# CLOSE THE CONTRACTOR FRAUD LOOPHOLE ACT
## `c373fcf1a713b664e87a19339771f11e`
`Mr. TOWNS — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

H.R. 5712, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act, is a 
commonsense solution to a problem that we never should have had in the 
first place. When the administration wrote a new rule requiring Federal 
contractors to report fraud and over billing on government contracts, 
for some reason contracts performed overseas and commercial item 
contracts were exempted from that requirement.

That didn't make sense to my colleague on the Subcommittee on 
Government Management, Congressman Welch, because so much contract 
fraud and waste has been seen on contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan. He 
introduced this bill which will close these loopholes, and I salute him 
for that.

The Justice Department believes the new rule is necessary because few 
government contractors voluntarily disclose suspected instances of 
fraud. But the exemptions in the rule as written would leave out 
contractors like those in Iraq and Afghanistan, where we have spent 
billions on reconstruction contracts over the past 5 years. Over that 
period, the Justice Department has uncovered at least $14 million in 
contract bribes in those two countries alone. Contractors must be held 
to the same standards no matter where they perform their work.

Since Congressman Welch brought attention to this loophole, 
introduced this bill, and called for the hearing our subcommittee held 
last week, the administration has said it is leaning toward including 
overseas and commercial item contracts in the final fraud reporting 
rule. I am happy to hear that, but we cannot get them to guarantee that 
these loopholes would be closed. That is why Mr. Welch's bill is 
necessary, to make sure that loopholes are closed for good. Another way 
to put it, this legislation will help them deal with a problem that 
should not have occurred.

I want to thank Congressman Welch for bringing this problem to the 
attention of the subcommittee. I would also like to thank the chairman 
of our full committee, Congressman Waxman, and also thank the ranking 
member of the full committee, Congressman Davis. And I would like to 
thank the ranking member of the subcommittee, Congressman Bilbray, for 
helping us bring this bill to the floor.

Mr. Speaker, at a time when our national security is of paramount 
concern, criminals who cheat the government must be identified, stopped 
and punished. H.R. 5712 will help make sure that taxpayer dollars are 
used for their intended purpose, and not to line the pockets of corrupt 
individuals or companies. So I urge my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.