---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011--MOTION TO
## `c37494e82b09bf1e7c79d7d7036ff265`
`Mr. REED — 21 September 2010`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, we are at a critical juncture in proceeding 
to the National Defense Authorization Act. This bill is routinely taken 
up every year. I want to emphasize again, we are at the first step. 
This is just a motion to go forward to begin to debate the bill. I 
would hope we could at least summon sufficient votes to agree to talk 
about these critical issues.

This legislation contains important programs for our military. We 
have a military that is at war in Iraq and Afghanistan. They need 
equipment, and they need support. We have included changes for the 
quality of life of their families. One change, significantly, is to 
make the TRICARE system comparable to the new health care system by 
allowing children who are up to 26 years old to stay on their parents' 
policies.

There are some controversial provisions and proposals. One is don't 
ask, don't tell. The other is the DREAM Act. First, the minority or 
anyone has the right to move an amendment to take out or change 
provisions with respect to don't ask, don't tell. I would disagree with 
that and oppose that, but that is something that can and will happen 
and will engender a very strong, positive debate. The other issue is 
the DREAM Act. I think that has a significant connection to this bill 
because that is one of the ways in which a youngster who came to the 
United States--not by his or her choice but because of a family 
choice--under 16 years of age who later joins the military, and who 
serves honorably, can be put on a path to eventually become a citizen. 
That has a strong nexus to this bill. But that issue has to be proposed 
on this legislation and voted for by a majority of Members.

So we are here simply to begin an important debate and discussion to 
support our men and women in uniform across the globe, and their 
families. To deny at least the initiation of such a debate seems to be 
exactly contrary to why we should be here, which is to support our 
military, to debate difficult issues, and then to take votes up and 
down to decide the policy of the United States.

With that, I urge all my colleagues to support this motion to proceed 
to the bill.

Mr. President, I yield any remaining time I have back to the chairman 
of the committee.