---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `c377ba9c75ec135e91fb803f9394a2b4`
`Ms. LEE — 13 March 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself as much time as I may consume.

Along with my colleague from California, Congresswoman Lynn Woolsey, 
I cochair the Congressional Progressive Caucus. And let me just take a 
moment to acknowledge our cochair, Congresswoman Woolsey, whose hard 
work, whose brilliant intellect, and whose soaring spirit really is 
with us today, even though she's at home recuperating very well from 
back surgery. She'll be back very soon to continue to fight to bring 
our young men and women home from Iraq.

I rise today to offer the Congressional Progressive Caucus budget. We 
call it our antipoverty, pro-opportunity, peace, and security budget.

Budgets really are moral documents. They provide a road map to 
identify and invest in our Nation's values and our priorities. The CPC 
alternative budget reflects our American mainstream values by making 
the right investments to fight poverty, to grow our economy, to assist 
survivors of Hurricane Katrina, to bring common sense to our national 
security budget, and to redeploy our troops and military contractors 
from Iraq.

Our budget does this in a way that not only balances our priorities 
but balances the Federal budget. Our budget stands in stark contrast to 
the President's very cynical proposal that he presented to us last 
month.

The Progressive budget rejects the President's budget and its attack 
on working families, minority communities, and many of our most 
vulnerable populations, like seniors and low-income individuals.

The Progressive budget rejects the President's ongoing occupation of 
Iraq that's costing taxpayers $12 billion, $12 billion each month. And 
the Progressive budget rejects the President's $200 billion cuts to 
Medicare and Medicaid that would raise premiums for our Nation's 
seniors and cut payments to the doctors and hospitals who serve them.

Our budget is different. It faces the poverty crisis in America head 
on, starting with redress and reconstruction for gulf coast victims of 
Hurricane Katrina. It is designed to reverse the Iraq recession by 
providing a vital stimulus to jump-start the economy. It is the only 
budget that brings common sense to national security by reinvesting the 
President's bloated defense funding request for the Pentagon, the 
highest since World War II.

The Progressive alternative will provide at least $551 billion for 
domestic, nonmilitary discretionary spending in fiscal year 2009, 
$131.9 billion above the President's request. As part of this increase 
in domestic discretionary spending, the Progressive Caucus budget also 
includes $73 billion to develop a sustained, coordinated, public 
private sector strategy that recommits America to a renewed war on 
poverty. This will cut the poverty rate in America in half in a decade. 
This goal is in line with H. Con. Res. 198, a resolution that I 
introduced which passed unanimously in the House in January.

We have budgeted the dollars to bring millions of children out of 
poverty by expanding the earned income tax credit for larger families 
and making the child tax credit fully refundable for any family earning 
more than $3,000. It will also finally begin to fully redress the 
continuing plight of the survivors of Hurricane Katrina.



Our alternative would provide the funds for the housing and the 
health care, education, and infrastructure investment, and the vital 
social services needed to bring people back to Louisiana and 
Mississippi.

Our budget would also immediately provide $118 billion to fund the 
most effective stimulus programs available to the government. We extend 
unemployment insurance, food stamp benefits, and critical Medicaid 
payments to States that will not only help keep State governments 
solvent, but keep more workers healthy and productive. The economic 
stimulus package will include assistance for low-income and unemployed 
people that were ignored by the first stimulus.

Additionally, the CPC budget provides foreclosure relief and includes 
new investments to rebuild our Nation's schools, fix our highways and 
bridges, and build new affordable housing. These initiatives will 
create jobs that will help keep more families in their homes.

Now, all of these vital programs will be a down payment on our 
rebuild and reinvest in America initiative. This long-term, sustainable 
project will create green jobs, reinvigorate our schools, and foster a 
new commitment to excellence in our students. We will repair our water, 
power, and transportation systems so that America cannot only compete 
in the global economy, but once again lead.

The Progressive budget also brings common sense to national security 
spending, providing $468 billion, which is $68 billion under the 
President's bloated request. Our budget cuts government waste, fraud, 
and abuse, and eliminates outdated and ineffective Cold War air weapons 
systems that were developed to fight an enemy that really no longer 
exists.

Most importantly, the CPC budget will end the occupation of Iraq by 
rapidly and safely redeploying our troops and military contractors. We 
have wasted far too much money on this occupation already, over a half 
trillion dollars to date. We cannot afford to spend another $3 trillion 
that some have estimated this will take.

So this budget achieves all these goals and brings the Federal 
budget, mind you, into budget by fiscal year 2012 and, upon the 
completion of our reinvest and rebuild America initiative, back into 
balance in 2018. I urge this body to reject the President's draconian 
cuts to vital programs for working American families and to support the 
CPC's alternative budget.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.