# IRAQ
## `c3789cf99d75e384592fe6e122d65952`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I am dismayed at where we now stand. 
Last fall, the people of the United States sent a message to the 
President of the United States that the current course of his war in 
Iraq is deeply misguided and that bold, new solutions are called for. 
The President failed to listen. Yesterday, the Senate, this historic 
institution, was prevented from speaking.

What we say in this historic Chamber about our course in Iraq, and 
even more what I hope we will do in this Chamber to correct that 
course, are among the most urgent concerns of the community of nations. 
It matters to millions of Americans who have already raised their 
voices in concern at a strategy lacking in foresight and cratered with 
flaws. It matters to millions more souls throughout the world whose 
lives, whose hopes, whose futures depend on American leadership and 
authority.

But we are silenced as a Senate, silenced because yesterday, on the 
single most important issue facing America today, on the issue that has 
cost more than 3,000 young Americans their lives, tens of thousands 
more their limbs and livelihoods, and countless families their well-
being--on the issue where this President has squandered so much of our 
national Treasury and national good will--the Senate was silent. It was 
silenced by a parliamentary maneuver.

The people we represent deserve better from us. As you know, I am new 
to this body, but each time I step through these doors, I bring with me 
the hopes and expectations of thousands of Rhode Islanders I have heard 
who know it is time for a new direction in Iraq. Tired of a President 
who has failed to listen and failed to learn, last November, they 
joined millions of their countrymen and voted for change.

Whenever I think of these men and women, I am filled with an enormous 
sense of responsibility. They trusted me to hear their voices and to 
make sure the Senate hears them too. So I speak today. I share Rhode 
Island's conviction that it is time for a change of course. Our troops 
and their families


have made countless sacrifices, and our choices in this Chamber must be 
worthy of them.

The situation in Iraq is dire, rife with sectarian conflict that can 
only be resolved by Iraqi political cooperation, not by American 
military force. A broad consensus has emerged from senior military 
commanders to the bipartisan Iraq Study Group and throughout the 
American people that our best course would be to begin to redeploy 
American troops out of Iraq. Instead, the President has insisted on a 
costly strategy of escalation that would send more of our soldiers into 
harm's way. I believe that to be a terrible mistake.

It is my deeply held conviction that in order to create the best 
environment for real change, the President must announce, clearly and 
unequivocally, that the United States plans to redeploy our troops from 
Iraq. That announcement would change the dynamic, enhancing our 
national security position in Iraq, in the Middle East, and throughout 
the world in three important ways.

First, a clear statement of American intent to redeploy forces from 
Iraq would eliminate the Iraqi insurgents' case that we are an army of 
occupation. It would eliminate it once and forever. The Iraqi 
population's nationalist sentiment would no longer be engaged against 
us. The Iraqi people don't want us there, and a majority of them 
consequently believe it is acceptable to kill American soldiers. That 
is not an environment in which we can gain likely success.

Second, without a buffering American presence, the world community 
would understand it must face the consequences of the Iraq situation. 
Other nations in the region and elsewhere around the world would be 
motivated to take a more active role to work together to bring peace 
and stability to the region. Now, for all intents and purposes, we are 
alone.

In particular, Arab nations, facing the risk of a pan-Arabic, Sunni-
Shiite conflict igniting in Iraq, must then assume greater 
responsibility for averting such an outcome. Under current U.S. policy, 
these Arab countries have little incentive to help calm the conflict or 
reduce the violence. Any incentive they have is buffered by America's 
role as the peacekeeper and offset by the cost, in so many eyes, of 
even associating with the United States.


Third, Iran presently gains immensely from fomenting violence in 
Iraq. Keeping America bogged down in a civil war in Iraq undermines 
critical U.S. policy objectives, including the effort to work 
effectively with the international community to address the serious 
threat posed by Iran's nuclear weapons program. The threat of American 
redeployment changes that calculation for Iran. The advantages Iran 
currently enjoys from bogging America down in Iraq would diminish or 
evaporate.

Some argue--we hear it right in this Chamber--that to fail to support 
this President's judgment is to fail to support the troops. Never mind 
the manifest and repeated flaws in that judgment: Misjudgment on 
weapons of mass destruction; misjudgment on when the mission was 
completed; misjudgment on the risks, costs, and demands of occupation; 
misjudgment on the wisdom of de-Baathification; misjudgment that the 
insurgency was in its last throes; and now misjudgment on whether there 
is civil war. There has never been a record of error, failure, and 
falsity similar to it. Now, the unfortunate fact is the President's bad 
misjudgments and failed diplomacy leave us few good options.

Changing the Iraq dynamic can set the stage for an aggressive 
international diplomatic effort to restore security in Iraq and combat 
terrorism worldwide. An intense diplomatic effort, with the parties 
thus motivated by the prospect of American redeployment, is our best 
remaining real chance for success. It will also staunch the hemorrhage 
of two critical American assets: Our international standing and our 
national Treasury--and most importantly, it will bring our troops home.

Without such a change in the dynamic, we are likely to remain trapped 
there, seen by many as more provocative than helpful, a great nation 
ensnared. For the safety of our troops, the stability of the region and 
the security of our Nation, that must not happen.

The situation in Iraq is grave and deteriorating. It undermines our 
national security by hurting our troops and their families, by 
diverting our attention from al-Qaida and other critical threats, and 
by degrading our military capability for other actions. The Iraq 
quagmire demands a new strategy that is both bold and realistic. If we 
lead boldly, sensitively, and firmly on the diplomatic front, if we 
speak, again, in realities instead of slogans, if we build consensus 
instead of polarizing nations, we can restore America's prestige, 
leadership, and good will. The President's escalation does not help 
achieve these goals, and yesterday the Senate had the opportunity to 
say so. We did not. We were silenced--silenced by parliamentary 
maneuver.


The Senate has been called the world's greatest deliberative body. 
Let us deliberate. The debate over our course in Iraq echoes all over 
the world, from world capitals to the kitchen tables of middle 
America--everywhere except this silenced Chamber.

Mr. President, I call on my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
to stop the stalling and allow this body to deliberate. Ultimately, the 
free and unfettered clash of ideas that a real Senate debate represents 
is exactly what our troops in Iraq are fighting for.

Let us, in this historic Chamber, not undermine their sacrifice with 
our silence.

For my part, it remains my view that announcing our intent to bring 
our soldiers home will help us start down the long road toward renewed 
American strength and leadership in the region and in the world. It is 
a critical journey, and it is long past time to begin.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.