---
---

# None
## `c37b68f4bae8143a3e498152ff2770e8`
`Mr. CARDOZA — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. CARDOZA. Mr. Speaker, my colleague from California is a very 
skilled orator, and I appreciate his speaking ability. I will tell you, 
however, one of the great tools that people use when they are as 
talented as Mr. Dreier is, when they don't want to talk about the bill 
at hand, they talk about everything else around it.

The reality is that the bill at hand, the rule that we are trying to 
move forward to bring a bill to the House floor today, eliminates 
privatization of tax collection.

Now, my Republican colleagues on the other side of the aisle love 
privatization. They love it in Iraq where it has not worked and our 
military is struggling under the burden of having privatization and 
contractors, war contractors not doing what they should be doing and 
charging four times what they should be charging to do it. We see all 
of the problems that have happened there.

We have seen the same thing happen here in the United States where 
Federal contracts have been let. Mr. Waxman's committee has done 
incredible work rooting out waste, fraud and abuse in the private 
contractor system.

And then they want to turn over the collection system of the IRS to 
private hands, putting at risk all Americans' private information and 
documents. They like privatization; they just don't like protecting 
your privacy.

The gentleman from California talked about all kinds of issues but he 
didn't talk about the root problem that we are trying to address here, 
and that is stopping bounty hunters from harassing American taxpayers.

Finally, Mr. Dreier talked at great length about the McCrery 
substitute and the fact that Mr. McCrery has not gotten a substitute 
this year.

Mr. Speaker, this is the second time this year that I have managed a 
rule where the Republican substitute has violated the House rules. I am 
a member of the Blue Dog Coalition as well as being a member of the 
Rules Committee. I am very proud that for the whole time I have been 
here as a member of the Blue Dog Coalition, we advocated for 
advancement of the PAYGO rule. We believe in fiscal responsibility. We 
believe we need to pay our debts. So we got, when we took over the 
majority, inserted into the House rules a clause that says we have to 
pay as we go. We have to do it like every American taxpayer has to run 
their own home. We have to run this House in a fiscally responsible 
way. And so we mandated the PAYGO rules.

The substitute put forward by the Republicans, for the second time 
that I have managed a rule anyway, has violated those PAYGO rules. When 
you don't follow the House rules, you can't expect your amendment to be 
made in order, Mr. Speaker. I encourage my colleagues to abide by those 
rules and honor the process.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.