---
---

# WITNESS SECURITY AND PROTECTION GRANT PROGRAM ACT OF 2009
## `c39261e103cb3df422f6d2d8e758f734`
`Mr. CUMMINGS — 9 June 2009`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. I want to thank the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Johnson) for yielding, and I want to certainly thank Chairman Conyers, 
Chairman Scott, Mr. Issa, the entire Judiciary Committee, and the House 
leadership for recognizing the importance of this legislation by 
bringing it to the floor today.

Mr. Speaker, while our soldiers fight in Iraq and Afghanistan, many 
citizens across our Nation are facing terrorism right here at home, 
right here in their own neighborhoods. People are being murdered in 
broad daylight, and their killers are walking free because we do not 
protect witnesses to crimes from threats against their safety if they 
cooperate with the police, if they testify in court, or even if they 
are listed as witnesses to testify in court.

This epidemic of witness intimidation is a menace to our civil 
society, and it is a plague on our entire justice system. In fact, it 
was the deaths of Angela and Carnell Dawson and their five children, 
ages 9 to 14, that first motivated me to address this issue. I can 
remember very vividly sitting at a funeral with one adult casket and 
with the caskets of five children. Then, a day later, the husband died, 
and we went to his funeral.

The entire Dawson family was killed in October 2002 when a gang 
member firebombed their home in the middle of the night in retaliation 
for Mrs. Dawson's repeated complaints to the police about the recurring 
drug trafficking in her east Baltimore neighborhood.

I might add, Mr. Speaker, that Mrs. Dawson literally lived within 
about a 5-minute drive from my house.

Angela Dawson and her family were not affiliated in any way with 
drugs or gangs. Rather, Mrs. Dawson was just a civic-minded parent, 
trying to clean up her neighborhood, and trying to make it a safe place 
for her children and for other families.

While several State and local entities have established witness 
assistance programs, many of these programs have fallen victim to the 
tough economic times and have had to be discontinued. Conversely, the 
U.S. Marshals Service uses $65 million to operate its Federal Witness 
Security Program, and it has an excellent track record. In all of its 
years in existence, they have never been known to have lost a witness, 
and at the same time, the prosecutors in those cases have had an 89 
percent success rate.

It is because of this inequity that I call upon my colleagues to give 
law enforcement the ability to protect the sanctity of our justice 
system and pass H.R. 1741, the Witness Security and Protection Grant 
Program Act.

H.R. 1741 would help local law enforcement officers strengthen 
witness assistance and protection units, sending a very loud and clear 
message to


criminals that our citizens and we in the Congress of the United States 
of America will not be deterred by fear tactics like intimidation.

Speaking of intimidation, throughout the City of Baltimore, we have a 
group that put out two trailers entitled ''Stop Snitching.'' In one of 
those trailers I, along with the State's attorney, were threatened 
because we were standing up for this legislation and because we were 
standing up for witnesses. I made it very clear to them that I have no 
fear because, if you can have a situation where a person can literally 
be standing on a corner and 20 people know the perpetrator and the 
perpetrator comes up and blows somebody's brains out and nobody 
testifies, what happens then is that we have given the criminal more 
power; we have taken power away from regular citizens. The next thing 
you know, the criminal feels that there are no consequences to his or 
her actions.

You cannot have a criminal justice system that is effective and 
efficient unless you have the cooperation of witnesses. It is up to 
this Congress to make it very, very clear that we will not, under any 
circumstances, stand for witnesses to be intimidated, harmed, 
threatened, killed or in any way deterred from carrying out their 
duties to assist police and law enforcement.

The bill would provide $150 million in competitive grants over 5 
years to enable State and local governments to establish witness 
assistance programs with priority given to cities or to locales that 
have had an average of at least 100 homicides per year during the most 
recent 5-year period. H.R. 1741 would also allow these programs to 
receive technical assistance from the United States Marshals Service.

By improving the protection for State and local witnesses, we come 
one step closer to alleviating the fears and the threats of prospective 
witnesses and to safeguarding our communities from violence.

Again, I want to thank Mr. Conyers. I want to thank Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
Scott, and the ranking member for their support. I urge my colleagues 
to pass this legislation.