---
---

# IRAQ
## `c3a16678fe1ded35e200b1cf0bfa40ed`
`Mr. DURBIN — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the country is consumed with the 
appearance this week of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker from 
Iraq. This is our annual report. Companies make annual reports. People 
like Warren Buffett call in to Omaha, NE, to shareholders of Berkshire 
Hathaway to talk about the state of his corporation and what the 
prospects are of the future. It has become an annual occurrence here on 
Capitol Hill that the two leaders from the diplomatic and military side 
come and make their report to Congress.

This is indeed the beginning of the sixth year of this war. This war 
in Iraq has lasted longer than World War II. By the end of this summer, 
it will have lasted longer than World War I and World War II combined. 
We have lost over 4,000 of our best and bravest, our


men and women in uniform who have given their lives in this conflict--
30,000 injured. Many with permanent injuries have returned from this 
battlefield.

Our military has been stretched to the absolute limit. There is no 
doubt in my mind that the U.S. military is the best in the world. You 
only have to meet them, you only have to understand the challenges they 
have faced and the success they have shown to know that. But it 
troubles me that in the midst of this debate about how long we can stay 
in Iraq, we are actually saying: How long can our military stay in Iraq 
with the support of the American people?

An honest appraisal of the American military today, in the sixth year 
of this war, will tell you they have paid a heavy price beyond the 
deaths and injuries. There is a serious challenge facing our military. 
The leaders--General Cody, who testified just a few weeks ago, and 
General McCaffrey--have told us that Iraq has pushed the U.S. Army to 
the breaking point. That is a sobering appraisal by the military itself 
of what this war has done to our great military.

Just the other day, the Army reported increased stress, anxiety, and 
depression for 27 percent of soldiers returning to Iraq for a third and 
fourth tour. Those of us who have been there to meet with soldiers, as 
I have on three different occasions, will tell you that these 
extraordinarily long deployments of our soldiers are virtually 
unprecedented since World War II, and they have taken their toll.

Our soldiers today are usually married. In previous wars, they were 
not. So they go to battle remembering that they have left behind 
spouses and children. On a daily basis, they are in contact by e-mail. 
They know if the car doesn't start. They know when the baby has to go 
to the doctor. They know when there is a problem paying the bills. They 
know it in real time.

In addition to the stress of being in battle and in combat, they have 
the added stress of separation from their families and the knowledge 
that for many of them it will be 15 months in deployment before they 
can come home.

A lieutenant colonel from Georgia, a career man, said to me as I 
left: Senator, we have to do something about these deployments. They 
are just entirely too long. And the period between deployments isn't 
long enough. He talked about leaving Georgia with his daughter in the 
fifth grade and returning after his deployment to find her in the 
seventh grade. He missed a year of her life.

He also talked about the fact that bringing these troops home for a 
year or sometimes even less before they are sent away again doesn't 
give them time to rest, to reunite with their families, to be 
reequipped, retrained, and to bring in new recruits and integrate them 
into the unit. We turn them around so quickly because this 
administration, and those who support it, look beyond the obvious, take 
for granted that the military will be there time and time again, and 
pursue a foreign policy which, sadly, has been a misguided policy from 
the start.

I will recall that evening as long as I serve in this body, in 
October of 2002, when we cast that fateful vote to give President 
George W. Bush the authority to invade Iraq, an authority which he 
used. It was a historic night and a sad night for many of us. Twenty-
three Senators, 1 Republican and 22 Democrats, voted against the 
authorization to invade Iraq. I recall that evening believing that this 
President was poised and prepared and ready to go into Iraq. He had 
misled through statements--inaccurate statements. The American people 
were misled about the circumstance involving that invasion.

Do you recall the fear we had? We were told about weapons of mass 
destruction--biological, chemical weapons, nuclear weapons. We were 
told Saddam Hussein was somehow linked to the terrible tragedy of 9/11. 
We were told his continued presence in the Middle East made it more 
dangerous for Israel, for many of our closest friends and allies. We 
were told he was developing predator aircraft that could be sent in 
remote ways to drop these weapons of mass destruction all around the 
Middle East, if not beyond.

Virtually every one of those statements made by this administration 
prior to the invasion of Iraq was wrong, inaccurate, and was proven to 
have been false. America was misled into this war.

That does not diminish in any way the bravery and courage and 
determination of our troops, but it says that the policymakers, many of 
whom are finally going to leave the scene in a few months, have to 
accept the verdict of history that they were wrong. They were wrong to 
lead us into this war, and the price we have paid has been a heavy 
price for that deception and that mistake.

They come now and tell us that even if we were wrong getting into 
this war, even if it lasted far longer than anyone anticipated, even if 
the cost of this war in human lives and actual dollars went 
dramatically beyond anyone's expectation, we have to ''stay the 
course.'' We have to stay the course. How many times have we been told 
by these military leaders and by the President that when the Iraqis are 
prepared to stand up with their own defense force, America's troops can 
stand down? I have heard that until I am weary of it.

Years ago, when I went to Iraq, I was greeted then by General 
Petraeus, who was not in charge but was part of the leadership there, 
and he took me off for a little exercise at the airfield to show me 
what the troops were doing--the Iraqi troops. I couldn't tell you 
whether it demonstrated skill or not. I am not an expert in military 
deployment by any means. But a handful of Iraqi soldiers, whose faces 
were hooded so they couldn't be identified by other Iraqis, went 
through the routine of a drill. I suppose it was undertaken to impress 
us. It didn't. I thought to myself: I will believe the Iraqi military 
has really reached the point of professionalism when they start 
replacing American soldiers and American soldiers start coming home.

Year after weary year, we have invested millions and millions of 
dollars in the training of their soldiers and their police. Yet 140,000 
of our soldiers are still rising this morning and every morning risking 
their lives for the people of Iraq.

I sometimes wonder if the Iraqi people have really come to the basic 
conclusion as to whether they are a nation worth fighting for. I do not 
know the answer to that. When you hear what is going on in Iraq 
recently, where 1,000 Iraqi soldiers turned and deserted in battle, it 
is not encouraging. It tells me that despite all the time, all the 
money, and all the bloodshed, this war continues unabated.

I know now that many want to see this administration leave and hand 
over the quagmire of Iraq to the next President. That next President, 
whoever that person may be, will inherit two wars from this 
administration--in Iraq and Afghanistan--a recession, a situation where 
health care across America is in crisis, an energy challenge the likes 
of which we have never seen in this country, an environmental challenge 
of global warming that challenges not only our Nation but the entire 
world, entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare on the 
ropes, and, unfortunately, a country that needs real leadership. That 
is the legacy of the Bush administration.

For General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker to come before us and 
talk about staying the course for another 9 or 10 months, to me betrays 
the obvious. We have given the Iraqi people more than any nation can 
ask, in terms of human life and treasure. It is estimated that the 
total cost of this war will be somewhere in the range of $3 trillion. 
What could we have done with that money in America had it been spent 
for America's strength? Just imagine: We could have provided 5.7 
million Americans with health coverage each year since the war began, 
hired 430,000 new teachers across America, built 1 million units of 
affordable housing, and provided 4-year scholarships at State 
universities for 4.7 million students. Instead, the money has been sunk 
in Iraq.

Just so the record is straight, the Iraqis are not paupers. They have 
bountiful sources of oil that they sell. While we labor with one of the 
largest deficits--in fact, the largest deficit in the history of the 
United States, a debt, a mortgage we are passing on to our children--
while we labor with that and are asked by the President to send another 
$100 billion into Iraq with the next request coming in just a few days, 
the Iraqis today have a surplus in their


treasury of over $25 billion. We are sacrificing in America to send 
money to Iraq to rebuild their country while they are building a 
surplus in their treasury from their oil revenues. What is wrong with 
this picture? There is no earthly explanation for that, and it is a 
fact.

I think, too, of what this means in the long term for the next 
President. That next President is going to inherit a terrible 
situation, finding an honorable way out of Iraq. I notice when the 
Republicans refer to that they always talk about a precipitous 
withdrawal. No one is calling for that. But the Democratic candidates 
for President are talking about bringing our troops home. I do not 
believe there is any other way for the Iraqis to be convinced that this 
is their nation and their future and their responsibility. As long as 
they can dial 9-1-1 and order up the best and bravest soldiers in the 
world to come from America and defend them, they are not going to 
accept their responsibility and do what is necessary.

Meanwhile, our military is devastated by this war. West Point-
educated officers are leaving the Army in record numbers. Between 2001 
and 2004, there was a doubling of the Army's divorce rate and a 
dramatic increase in suicide among the members of the military, 
particularly from the National Guard. In addition to that, we know we 
are waiving requirements for recruits. One out of eight new Army 
recruits has a criminal record, some with serious charges. We are 
lowering the requirements for basic education to bring in recruits. We 
are offering thousands of dollars to 19-year-olds fresh out of high 
school if they will just sign up to be in the Army. That is not good 
for the future of our country. It is not good for the future of our 
military.

We know that an estimated 90,000 Iraqi civilians have been killed, 
and maybe more, innocent people caught in the crossfire of a war. We 
know there are literally millions of Iraqi refugees, and shamefully the 
United States has been unwilling to even accept Iraqi refugees who have 
risked their lives for our troops and our safety. It is just 
unconscionable that countries around the world are accepting these 
refugees and the United States, which has needed them and used them, 
refuses to accept them. It is a fact.

We have dangerously emboldened Iran, which is moving closer to the 
development of nuclear weapons with this morning's announcement. In 
fact, it was actually Iran that helped broker an end to the recent 
violence in Basra.

If this invasion of Iraq was determined to show the strength of the 
United States, it is hard to show while we are still there 6 years 
later with no end in sight. If this invasion of Iraq was designed to 
diminish the power of Iran in the Middle East, it is hard to believe 
anyone could make that assertion today, with proof to back it up. That 
is the reality of what we face.

When I hear Senator McCain and Republican leaders talk about staying 
the course, I understand--and I hope Americans do--that we need to 
change the course. We need to change the direction of this war. We need 
to start to bring our brave soldiers home to the victor's welcome they 
deserve. We need to start to say to the Iraqis: Stand up and defend 
your own country. We need to start extricating ourselves from Iraq so 
this money we are now spending to build Iraq and make it stronger can 
give us strength right here at home. Instead of creating jobs in Iraq, 
we should be creating good-paying jobs right here in America, jobs that 
can't be outsourced, jobs that make a decent paycheck with benefits and 
health care and a promise of a good pension. We should be investing in 
this country's schools, in this country's hospitals, in this country's 
infrastructure, and the Iraqis should use their oil revenues to 
strengthen their own country and come together and make the hard 
political decisions which they have avoided.

I will close and turn it over to my colleague, Senator Cardin from 
Maryland, by telling you that the debate will continue, and in a few 
weeks the President's supplemental request will be before us. It is 
another opportunity for us to engage this Chamber in a debate. I know 
and we all know that the majority of Republicans refuse to join us in 
talking about the change in direction in this war. We know as well that 
this President will veto anything that changes his policies. He is 
determined to leave office with Iraq in the same condition that we know 
it today, with no change in basic policy before us.

The time is coming and coming soon--in November--when the American 
people have the last word. Finally, after 4 years, they get a chance to 
speak. They get a chance to pick a leader, to change the direction of 
this country in the right way, to make certain we have economic 
policies that build America and make it stronger--our families and our 
businesses--and to make certain we have a new policy in Iraq which 
really focuses on capturing Osama bin Laden, beating back the al-Qaida 
wherever they are found--in Pakistan or Afghanistan--making America 
safe from terrorism, and stopping what has been a longstanding and 
negative impact of this President's policy in Iraq.

I yield the floor.