---
---

# HONORING STAFF SERGEANT ZACHARY TOMCZAK
## `c3a40e4874d7d7fc3f02f9dcb4196d08`
`Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN — 1 October 2007`

---


Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN. Mr. Speaker, I want to take this opportunity to 
honor the life of Staff Sgt. Zachary Tomczak, who died September 25, 
2007, in Iraq from wounds suffered when his unit came under small arms 
fire.

Zachary, who served in the Army's 325th Airborne Infantry Regiment of 
the 82nd Airborne Division based in Fort Bragg, NC, graduated from 
Huron High School in 2002 and joined the Army soon after graduation. He 
was serving on his fourth tour of duty when he was wounded. He is 
described as a phenomenal person who stood as an example for all 
American citizens. His high school principal said, ''Zac was someone 
who demanded very little of us and gave an awful lot. He was a 
wonderful, wonderful young man.''

The lives of countless people were enormously enhanced by Zachary's 
compassion and service. He represented the best of the United States, 
South Dakota, and the Army. His life continues to inspire all those who 
knew him and many who did not. Our Nation and the State of South Dakota 
are far better places because of his service, and the best way to honor 
him is to emulate his devotion to our country.

Today, we remember and honor Zachary's noble service to the United 
States and the ultimate sacrifice he has paid with his life to defend 
our freedoms and foster liberty for others.

I join with all South Dakotans in expressing my sympathies to the 
family and friends of Staff Sgt. Tomczak. His commitment to and 
sacrifice for our Nation will never be forgotten.
