---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `c3aa726b0eef629277c6710c177ed1ce`
`Mr. BOUSTANY — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. BOUSTANY. Mr. Chairman, I thank our ranking member for yielding 
time to me.

Mr. Chairman, while there are many disagreements about policy in 
Iraq, we can all agree that a military solution is insufficient. More 
evidence is clearly needed on the political, diplomatic, and economic 
fronts. But I have concerns about what I am hearing from across the 
aisle. Given the history, if we look back at the CR at the beginning of 
the year, there is a lack of clarity about how funds could be used by 
our State Department.

Furthermore, we saw a marked reduction in human intelligence funding 
in the Intelligence authorization bill. In the supplemental, economic 
support funds were basically withheld. But some funding was restored 
through administration waivers. And now, in this bill, economic 
stabilization funds were basically zeroed.

Mr. Chairman, I thank our colleague, our ranking member, for trying 
in subcommittee and in full committee to restore this funding. With 
this amendment, which I believe is very essential to success in Iraq, 
he has put forth this effort. This funding is clearly important if we 
are going to fund the political and economic endeavor in Iraq. The 
State Department cannot complete its planning and implementation of 
phase three of putting together these provincial reconstruction teams 
which are absolutely necessary to the success of the mission. So it is 
clear that we need for this amendment to pass to allow the State 
Department to plan and move.

In the post-Cold War environment, we have grave responsibilities as a 
Nation. Yet we are refusing to fund our State Department worthy of this 
position of responsibility. The United Kingdom alone, which has one-
fifth the population of the United States, has 5,600 diplomats 
worldwide and 130,000 troops. The U.S. has a mere 6,500 diplomats 
worldwide with 1.4 million troops, 2.5 million if you count our 
Reserves.

Mr. Chairman, I urge the adoption of this amendment. Clearly, it is 
the responsible thing to do to move forward. It restores $140 million 
in economic support funds, $16 million in nonproliferation, anti-
terrorism and demining efforts, a critical, critical piece to this, and 
$2 million to increase international military education and training.

Mr. Chairman, this amendment is a responsible thing to do. I urge all 
of our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this amendment.