---
---

# IN MEMORY OF SERGEANT 1ST CLASS JUSTIN S. MONSCHKE
## `c3b016a7b849ff006d8b50a28dbeeef0`
`Mr. BURGESS — 3 April 2008`

---


Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I proudly rise today in memory of one of 
our nation's bravest and finest men who gave his life protecting our 
nation and its citizens. Sgt. 1st Class Justin S. Monschke of Krum, 
Texas, who served our country during Operation Iraqi Freedom, was 
killed on Sunday, October 14, 2007 in Arab Jabour, Iraq by a roadside 
bomb.

Born October 20, 1978, Justin's lifelong dream was to be a United 
States soldier. He joined the United States Army after high school 
graduation and earned the distinguished rank of Green Beret in 2002. 
Sgt. Monschke was an instructor in the U.S. Army Rangers, Special 
Forces, and served tours in both Iraq and Afghanistan. Among the 
numerous awards he earned during his courageous service are: the Green 
Beret, a Silver Star, a Bronze Star Medal, the Purple Heart, and a 
Meritorious Service Medal. Sgt. Monschke was assigned to Company B, 2nd 
Battalion, 3rd Special Forces Group (Airborne), at Fort Bragg, North 
Carolina.

Devoted to both his country and his comrades-in-arms, Sgt. Monschke 
was, above all else, a family man. Always a soldier at heart, Justin 
assumed a new role in life when he married Melissa Morro on February 
23, 2002, in Gatlinburg, Tennessee: the role of husband and father. 
Sgt. Monschke served in the army for more that 10 years, committed to 
protecting his country, community, and the future of his family.

Sgt. Monschke is remembered by his family as a hero who died doing 
something he loved--serving his country--and that is how he should be 
remembered by all. The Krum community and Sgt. Monschke's numerous 
friends and family members have lost a son, brother, husband, father, 
and friend; the United States has lost a patriot and protector. It is 
my honor to have represented Sergeant 1st Class Justin S. Monschke in 
the 26th District of Texas, and I extend my sincerest condolences to 
his family and friends. He will be deeply missed and the nation will be 
forever grateful for his honorable service.
