# EXPRESSING SYMPATHY FOR VICTIMS OF CAMP LIBERTY SHOOTINGS
## `c3b7ba839f619c9f4435f5a8bd565679`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 2 June 2009`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman from 
Maryland, the gentlewoman from Oklahoma.

This resolution, H. Res. 471, is a resolution that deserves all of 
our support. The legislation expresses our sympathies to the five 
victims and their countless friends and families of the violent acts 
that took place at Camp Liberty in Iraq in May. Many of us have been 
there many times.

These are senseless deaths. In a book that just came out 2 months 
ago, Joshua Cooper Ramo, ''The Age of the Unthinkable,'' wrote, Our old 
way of war is increasingly useless. It is senseless to aspire to 
periods of peace on Earth during the lifetime of anyone who reads the 
book unless we begin to change how, where, and why we do fight.

These deaths took place at a very particular spot at Camp Liberty, 
and both the gentlewoman and the gentleman who spoke of the names and 
places where these five soldiers came from are on the Record.

One of these soldiers, one of these brave men, came from the city I 
have lived in all my life. Army Sergeant Christian Bueno-Galdos was 25 
years old. I honor, and we all honor, his sacrifice and his service. It 
exemplifies the deep sense of commitment that so many immigrants have 
for America. He was the youngest of four. He was born in Peru, and came 
here when he was 7 years old. He and his family settled in a gray house 
in a neighborhood I grew up in--Paterson, New Jersey. It was just 
across the street from the county road department in south Paterson.

He attended high school at Passaic County Tech. After graduating, he 
considered studying premed but instead decided to serve his country and 
joined the U.S. Army Reserves. It was in this service to his Nation 
that Sergeant Bueno-Galdos became a citizen of the United States of 
America. He went into the service before he was a citizen. His 
dedication and love for this country was so great, he voluntarily 
signed up for a second tour of duty. How many times have we heard this?

Then, on May 11, Sergeant Bueno-Galdos tragically lost his life, and 
Paterson and New Jersey and the United States lost a fine citizen. His 
parents first considered laying him to rest in their home country of 
Peru. But upon reflection of their son's love of America and commitment 
to this great Nation, Sergeant Bueno-Galdos was laid to rest in New 
Jersey with full military honors.

So we extend our deepest sympathies and heartfelt gratitude to his 
surviving wife Greisyn, his mother Eugenia, his father Carlos, and his 
three siblings.

Sergeant Bueno-Galdos was a courageous soldier, a loving husband, a 
son, a brother, a fine American citizen. He will be greatly missed but 
never forgotten in Paterson. We have already erected a monument on 
Memorial Day for him.

But my friends, today something else happened. We promoted from 
Lieutenant Colonel, Mike Jaffee, who is now a full Colonel in the Air 
Force. Dr. Jaffee is a neurologist, psychologist. He's a leader in the 
Department of Defense to respond to traumatic brain injury and 
posttraumatic stress disorder. Isn't it ironic that these killings took 
place in


a stress area where American soldiers were trying to help those in 
need?

Twenty percent of those who have fought, who have been on the front 
lines, whether in Iraq or Afghanistan, have posttraumatic stress 
disorder. Most are misdiagnosed, most are undiagnosed, and the stigma 
is slowly peeling away. They need our help. Their families need our 
help.

So not only did we go into a war unprepared, but we did little for 
those who put their lives on the front line while we, supposedly gray 
men, decided where they would go and when they would return and how 
many times they would return to the battlefield. We are fools, to say 
the least.

We need to think about what's going on. These brave men and women 
have taken the entire burden while we act as if nothing happens. These 
senseless deaths will not be forgotten.

I ask all of us to vote for this legislation and remember their 
families

God bless America. Thank you.