# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--MOTION TO PROCEED CLOTURE MOTION
## `c3bae07032a28838f5e5a80b8280ccab`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, the conflict in Afghanistan enters its 
ninth year next month. Over the past few months, the United States has 
experienced the most casualties since the war began in 2001. In June, 
60 U.S. troops were killed; in July, 66; in the month of August, 55 
service members gave their lives.

We always recall the words of Lincoln when we recall those who are 
killed in action, those who gave, as he said, the last full measure of 
devotion to their country. These are difficult days, and that is an 
understatement--very difficult days for the American people and 
especially for the families and the troops. I also believe these are 
days that have tried the patience of Americans and tested the resolve 
of our commitment to this conflict.

At a minimum, we--when I say ''we,'' I mean those Members of the U.S. 
Congress--we owe the families of these service members every assurance 
that their elected officials, their elected representatives in 
Washington are vigilantly exercising oversight of the war. We also owe 
it to them that we ask and demand answers to very tough questions and, 
finally, that we are doing everything we can to make sure we get this 
policy and this strategy that goes with it right.

Since I last spoke on the floor on the issue of Afghanistan, there 
have been many important developments with respect to the war. First, 
we have been confronted with new revelations of corruption by the 
Afghan Government--more about that in a moment--second, reports of 
ballot box stuffing and voter intimidation in the parliamentary 
elections earlier this month have raised long-held doubts by the Afghan 
people as to the durability of the country's democratic experiment. The 
number of IED attacks has increased, and while deaths due to the IEDs 
are, in fact, down, the number of injuries is, unfortunately, up. ISAF 
has also begun operations in Kandahar. We saw a story about this 
yesterday. This is notable because this is reportedly the first 
operation to be primarily made up of Afghan troops.

I wish to spend a couple moments today to draw attention to the 
international response to the floods in Pakistan. The United States has 
played an important leading role. We were the first, and with the most 
assistance, of any country. While this may be the case, we also have a 
responsibility to encourage generosity from the public and private 
sectors in the international community.


I mentioned before the issue of corruption in Afghanistan. This issue 
has nationwide implications and could serve to undermine the totality 
of our efforts in Afghanistan. Our troops are fighting and dying to 
help extend the reach of the Afghan Government outside of the capital 
of Kabul to show the Afghan people that their government has a monopoly 
on the use of force and is capable of providing goods and services to 
its people. But we need to put this very simply. We cannot be 
complicit. Our forces, our government, cannot be complicit in helping 
to extend the reach of a corrupt government. Afghanistan is a sovereign 
country, and if the fight against corruption is going to be effective, 
Afghans--Afghans--can and must own the process.

The United States should support the work of the Major Crimes Task 
Force and the Special Investigations Unit, but, frankly, the track 
record to date has been very disappointing, and unless serious progress 
is made, support for U.S. engagement in Afghanistan will be seriously 
eroded.

As a former auditor general of Pennsylvania who oversaw the auditing 
of government programs at the State level, I perhaps have a heightened 
sensitivity to the vital role transparency and accountability have in 
government--in any government. The importance of these basic elements 
of a representative democracy is especially compelling when the lives 
of courageous Americans, ISAF, and Afghan forces are, indeed, on the 
line.

Just yesterday, the Wall Street Journal reported that there is a U.S. 
criminal investigation into President Karzai's older brother Mahmood, 
and prosecutors are trying to determine whether they can bring charges 
of tax evasion, racketeering, or extortion against him. Reportedly, he 
will travel to the United States this week to amend his tax returns. 
But these are serious allegations that we read about time after time. I 
have spoken and many in this Chamber have spoken about the allegations 
of corruption against Ahmed Wali Karzai, who has been implicated in 
local corruption schemes involving the opium trade. These are 
allegations, they are charges, but they are charges that are very 
serious and potentially damaging to the overall U.S. effort in the 
country, as it strikes to the heart of trust in the Afghan Government. 
Without this trust from Afghans and from the international community, I 
am concerned that support for U.S. efforts in Afghanistan will erode.

On September 18, Afghans went to the polls to vote for a new 
parliament. This has also become a serious cause


for concern. On Sunday, the Afghan election officials ordered recounts 
in seven provinces. A government antifraud elections watchdog has 
received more than 3,500 complaints--3,500 complaints--about this 
election. They are concerned that up to 57 percent of these complaints 
could change the outcome of the vote. The Free and Fair Election 
Foundation of Afghanistan, the main independent Afghan observer group, 
observed ballot box stuffing in 280 voting sites in 28 provinces. We 
don't expect elections in a developing country to be perfect, 
especially a country that is in a war zone, but these reports are 
alarming, to say the least, because they indicate that not enough 
progress has been made over the past 9 years to create an Afghanistan 
in which the people resolve their own differences through politics and 
not violence.

Next let me move to the question of security, which is so fundamental 
to our strategy. I have sought to highlight the threat posed by 
ammonium nitrate, the fertilizer that is a key ingredient in the 
improvised explosive devices in Afghanistan. According to a recent 
report from the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization, 
known by the acronym JIEDDO, there have been 1,062 effective IED 
attacks against coalition forces in 2010 that killed 292 soldiers and 
wounded another 2,178 others. In the first 8 months of 2009, there were 
820 such attacks that killed 322 and wounded 1,813. So while the number 
of deaths in the comparable period of 2009 versus 2010 may be down--
instead of it being 322 deaths in those 8 months, it is 292--even 
though the number of deaths is down, the number of wounded, the number 
of injuries has risen dramatically in 2010.

It is essential that we highlight this threat and support U.S. and 
international efforts to crack down on the proliferation of dangerous 
chemicals such as ammonium nitrate that can be used in IEDs. I 
sponsored a resolution which was passed by unanimous consent--which we 
know is hard to do in this body these days--calling for increased focus 
by the Governments of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Central Asian nations 
to effectively monitor and regulate the use of ammonium nitrate 
fertilizer in order to prevent terrorist organizations from 
transporting ammonium nitrate into Afghanistan. As we know, a lot of 
the inflow, a lot of the movement of this precursor chemical that is 
used in IEDs comes from Pakistan into Afghanistan. As a show of 
bipartisan strength on this resolution, Senators Kyl, Snowe, Reid, and 
Levin--two Democrats, two Republicans--were original cosponsors of this 
resolution. I also had language inserted into the foreign operations 
funding bill which requires the State Department to report on its 
efforts to encourage Pakistani assistance on this issue. We must remain 
vigilant and persistent to address this ongoing problem. This is about 
protecting our troops from the horror of an IED attack. We must do all 
we can to minimize the threat to our brave men and women fighting for 
us in the field.

At a different level, at a strategic level, ISAF has launched 
Operation Dragon Strike, a joint operation with Afghan forces which 
will look to eradicate Taliban elements in Kandahar. This operation 
could mark a crucial and critical turning point in the war, and we will 
be watching closely in the coming weeks to gauge the progress as it 
moves forward. This operation is notable as there are more Afghan 
troops than ISAF troops on the ground, and this is indeed an 
encouraging sign that the training of the Afghan National Army is 
beginning to reap benefits. That is a bit of good news--more good 
news--as it relates to the training of the Afghan Army; not such good 
news--in fact, some bad news--as it relates to the training of the 
Afghan National Police.

Let me move finally to the floods in Pakistan. I wish to draw 
attention to the devastating humanitarian crisis that continues to 
plague Pakistan after the flood. This has affected millions of people 
in Pakistan across the country--maybe not always directly but in some 
way or another through displacement, death, injury--in so many ways 
this has adversely affected the people of Pakistan. This is the worst 
natural disaster in the history of the country.

To assist the people of Pakistan during this difficult time, the 
United States has provided more than $340 million to support immediate 
relief and recovery efforts. The United States has provided food, 
infrastructure support, and air support to transport goods and rescue 
thousands stranded by the floods.

These floods will require a substantial international commitment of 
assistance. The United Nations has issued appeals, but the response 
from the international community has been, in a word, weak, and that 
might be an understatement. Private contributions have slowed to a 
trickle.

Last week, we heard from Cameron Munter, the President's nominee to 
be Ambassador to Pakistan, who described at our hearing in the Foreign 
Relations Committee the administration's plans to bolster support for 
the Pakistan relief fund. The American response to the flood has been 
substantial, but we can and must do more to rally the international 
community and the private sector to be generous in Pakistan's time of 
need. The Pakistani-American community has led an important effort to 
draw attention to the devastation wrought by the flood. We should 
bolster their work and use our platforms as public officials to broaden 
their appeals for help.

So we have many challenges in this area to get our strategy right in 
Afghanistan as it relates to governance. Increasingly, that word really 
means anticorruption, mostly--obviously on security in terms of what 
our strategy is but also in terms of training the Afghan National Army 
and police so that we can eventually draw down our troops and have them 
take over the fight and govern their own country.

Finally, on development, which I didn't speak much about today, there 
is the ability for the Afghans to develop the infrastructure and 
support they need to govern themselves, whether that is services, water 
and sewer--any indication, any element any country would need to have 
in place so that people can live in peace and security. Finally, there 
are the efforts we are making to help the people of Pakistan at a time 
of great need. We have all kinds of important humanitarian reasons to 
be helpful and to show solidarity with suffering people, and we also 
have several security imperatives that come into play when it comes to 
the flood and the aftermath.

So for all of these reasons, it is critically important to continue 
to debate and discuss and even argue about what our policy in 
Afghanistan should be. That is the least the Senate can do when our 
troops are fighting and sometimes dying in the field to carry out this 
mission.

With that, I yield the floor and note the absence of a quorum.