# ESTABLISHING PROGRAM TO MAKE GRANTS REGARDING BACKUP PAPER BALLOTS
## `c3d49fff75133d3a2680230906668b47`
`Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California — 15 July 2008`

---


Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.

I introduced H.R. 5803 at the request of election advocates and 
elected officials as a simple solution to deal with some of the 
problems jurisdictions may face this election day.

The bill provides reimbursements through grants to jurisdictions that 
choose to provide backup paper ballots in the event of voting machine 
failure or some other emergency situation for this November's election. 
The language in the legislation has been crafted, at the request of 
State and local governments, to allow them to decide what constitutes 
an emergency situation. That could mean anything from machine failure 
to long lines to problems with polling place staffing. It is fully up 
to the jurisdiction to determine what justifies the use of backup paper 
ballots and how to distribute them.

As mentioned, this is 100 percent optional. If States already use 
paper, including electronic machines with a voter verifiable paper 
audit trail, it's unlikely they would apply for a grant.

Of the 14 States that use electronic voting machines without paper 
trails, only 5 have no paper requirements at all and 9 States and the 
District of Columbia only use these machines in some jurisdictions. All 
this legislation provides is an additional method of instilling voter 
confidence. The grants provided in this bill allow jurisdictions to 
have a contingency plan, backup paper ballots, in case there are 
mistakes by poll workers or another cause and to determine when and how 
to implement that plan. Another provision included in the legislation 
allows the jurisdiction to determine when and how the backup paper 
ballots are distributed to voters.

The bill has been drafted in full cooperation with and is supported 
by the National Council of State Legislators, the National Association 
of County Officials, and the National Association of


Secretaries of State. All those organizations have submitted letters of 
support, as has Ohio Secretary of State Brunner, who calls it 
''meaningful and respectful of State authority in election 
administration matters.''

In addition to the support of State and local governments, the bill 
is supported by election integrity groups, including People for the 
American Way, the Brennan Center, the Lawyers Committee For Civil 
Rights Under the Law, Common Cause, Verified Vote, Counted as Cast, and 
just today the NAACP Legal Defense Education Fund. Additional input was 
provided by disability rights groups who have told us that the bill has 
no adverse impact on their community and that they approve the 
language.

As we have seen, broad support for election-related legislation is 
not easy to accomplish. Backup paper ballots are a unifying factor 
between election officials and election advocates. It's 100 percent 
optional, and the responsibility and mechanisms for implementation is 
left to the State and local officials. The bill is a measured and 
proactive step towards improving the system of election administration 
for this November.

Voter turnout in the 2008 presidential primaries was at 28 percent of 
the country's estimated eligible voters. That's a record one in four 
eligible voters, actually slightly more. The turnout rate has not been 
that high since 1972, when the voting age was lowered to 18. Given this 
record primary turnout, providing State and local jurisdictions the 
option to have backup paper ballots could mitigate any challenges they 
may face on Election Day in November. This bill helps ensure election 
integrity and national electoral confidence and respects State and 
local jurisdictions' responsibility to administer elections.

I would also note that given the fiscal situation of most States and 
most counties, providing some assistance in this paper ballot measure 
is extremely important. I know, for example, in my own State of 
California there is a tremendous multibillion-dollar budget deficit 
that is mimicked in counties throughout the State. We have received a 
report from CRS that outlines various things that could concern us, 
including long lines in jurisdictions that have DREs. The paper ballot 
backup measure could help mitigate against that problem.

And, finally, I would note that the cost of this measure, this 
authorization, is really the price we pay every day for an afternoon in 
Iraq. Surely we can spend the equivalent of an afternoon in Iraq to 
preserve, protect, and defend our own electoral system in one of the 
most important elections our Nation will see this November.

With that, I would urge the passage of the bill.


















 Brennan Center for Justice,



















 New York, NY, April 30, 2008.


 Re Support for H.R. 5803, the ''Back Up Paper Ballot Bill''.



 Representative Zoe Lofgren,


 Chair, Subcommittee on Elections, Committee on House 




 Administration, House of Representatives, Washington, DC.




 Dear Representative Lofgren: Thank you for your leadership 


 and commitment to improving the security, reliability, and 


 accessibility of our voting systems. In an election year that 


 has garnered unprecedented voter interest, it is particularly 


 important to have good policies and procedures in place in 


 advance of the November elections.



 For this reason, we strongly support H.R. 5803, the Back Up 


 Paper Ballot Bill. News reports of machine problems during 


 states' recent presidential primary elections provide a 


 preview of potentially widespread machine failure and 


 disenfranchisement in November. H.R. 5803 would reimburse 


 jurisdictions for costs associated with providing voters 


 emergency paper ballots in the event of machine breakdowns.



 In elections past, machine failures have caused long lines 


 at the polls and disenfranchised untold numbers of voters. 


 Encouraging the use of emergency paper ballots will help 


 ensure that every voter may have her vote counted and make it 


 much less likely that voters will be forced to wait on long 


 lines or turned away from the polls because of machine 


 malfunction--these are particularly important considerations 


 for November's elections, when turnout is expected to be 


 high.





 Sincerely,

























Lawrence Norden,


 Counsel.