# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `c3d5747cca9152d4d7e0d9038956bd0d`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will try my best. No. 1, my time in the 
service has been as a military lawyer. I am not a combat operational 
guy. If you want to talk about my experiences in the military, I am 
glad to talk about them, but they are limited, and I know how far they 
should go--not very. As a JAG colonel, I cannot tell you how to deploy 
troops. I don't know. That is out of my line. I have to make a decision 
as a Senator when the general comes, as Senator McCain says, as to 
whether it makes sense to me. I would not advise any Member of this 
body to follow a four star general's recommendation just because of the 
number of stars.

Here is what I would advise the Members of this body to do. Listen to 
what the general says. Use your own common sense. Go in theater and see 
if it makes sense. For 3/1/2/ years, we went to Iraq and we were told 
by the generals in the old strategy that things were fine. On about the 
third trip with Senator McCain, I would say we were in a tank. I am a 
lawyer, so I don't understand military deployments and how to deploy 
combat troops. But I can tell you this from a lawyer's perspective and 
from good old South Carolina common sense: After the third visit to 
Iraq, if you thought things were getting better, you were crazy. We 
blamed it on the Republican side. The media doesn't tell the story 
right. It wasn't the media's fault. We were losing operational control 
of Iraq because we didn't have enough troops. You could see it if you 
wanted to look. If you were blinded by the partisanship that exists in 
this building, you will find some other group to blame it on. But it 
was there to be seen.

I have been seven times--twice in uniform--working on issues where I 
think I have a little bit to offer. My contribution is insignificant, 
inconsequential, but I am honored to have been able to be allowed to 
go, because I am cheering on people over there and I am still in 
uniform and I am the only one left, and I wish I could stay over there 
longer because I feel an obligation to do so.

Here is the morale as I see it this time around. A year ago, I was in 
Iraq--maybe a little bit longer--sitting at lunch across the table with 
a sergeant. I asked him: Sergeant, how is it going? He said: Senator, I 
feel like I am driving around waiting to get shot. Not going very well.

This last tour, when I was there for 11 days, I got to have three 
meals a day with them in Baghdad and meet folks with different missions 
and responsibilities, including combat guys coming in from the field. I 
sat down with them every night and I asked: How is it going? I was 
told: Colonel, we are kicking their ass.

Morale is high because of the new strategy. They are fighting and 
living with the Iraqi troops out in the field. Their army is getting 
better. When you talk to the marines in Anbar, they will tell you with 
pride: Look at what we did here.

For us politicians to deny what they did is an insult to their hard 
work. They liberated Anbar Province because there were enough of them 
this time around to join up with the Sunnis in Anbar to make a 
difference and drive out al-Qaida. This new strategy--and everybody has 
been asking for something new for a long time--is working. It is 
working. There are areas in Iraq, as Senator McCain described, that are 
liberated from a vicious enemy.

On the rule-of-law front, judges have a new level of security because 
of the surge that they have never known before. The first thing General 
Petraeus did when he went in theater was create a rule-of-law green 
zone for judges. We have taken an old Iraqi base and built housing for 
judges and created a perimeter of security. We have a jail inside the 
complex, judge housing, a police station, and a brandnew courtroom, so 
that the judges can implement the law without fear of assassination. I 
have never seen such growth in an area as I have in the rule of law 
since the surge began. The judges now are able to do their job without 
their families being assassinated, and we have seen dramatic 
improvements.

I will give you two examples. There was a Shia police captain accused 
of torturing Sunnis at the police station he was in charge of. He is 
now facing a long-term prison sentence because the Iraqi legal system 
didn't listen to the fact that he was a Shia and the people he abused 
were Sunni. They gave a verdict based on what he did, not who he did it 
to. It is sweeping the whole legal system.

Judges are going into areas that al-Qaida operated from just months 
ago


and they are rendering justice, but not based on what sect you come 
from; it is based on what the person was accused of. I witnessed a 
trial downtown Baghdad where two people of the three were Shia police 
officers in the Iraqi police force. There was a raid on the house they 
were living in by the American forces. Coalition troops were the only 
witnesses and these two defendants who were in a house full of IED 
material, rocket-propelled grenades, explosive devices that were meant 
to kill Americans. The defense said: Who are you going to believe, us 
or the invader? The lawyers in the trial looked the judge in the eye 
and started citing one verse of the Koran after another to tell the 
judge he had a duty to stand beside his Muslim brothers and reject the 
testimony of the infidels. I was there; I saw it.

The three judges conducted a trial that everybody who witnessed that 
trial would have been proud of. They asked hard questions. They 
separated the defendants, and rather than listening to dictates from 
the Koran coming out of the mouth of their lawyer, they asked questions 
such as how were they in the house, and how could they not have known 
the weapons were there? They did a great job proving these guys were 
lying through their teeth. When they reconvened, they got convicted, 
getting 6 years in jail.

There is progress going on in Iraq. There are people in Iraq who are 
bigger than sectarian differences. There are judges, lawyers, and 
average, everyday people who are risking their lives to make their 
country better. One of the biggest problems they have had is that we 
screwed up early on and let security get out of hand. With better 
security, people are beginning to engage in a way I have never seen 
before.

This idea of pulling back now, reducing our military footprint, at a 
time when we have made a real difference, is too disheartening to the 
troops. They are watching what we are doing. I was stopped every 30 
feet with questions such as: What are we going to do? Is the war going 
to go on? Are they going to cut it short? The people fighting want one 
thing, and that is the ability to finish the job. Do they want to come 
home? Yes, God knows they want to be home. Are they tired of going 
over? Yes. But above all others, they want to win.

Senator McCain said he met people for the third and fourth time. 
Well, nobody stays in this military unless they volunteer, to begin 
with, and when their enlistment is up, there are stop-loss problems, 
but there is an end to this war for them; it is an end of their 
choosing. This force, unlike others, chooses when to end the war for 
them when their enlistment comes. What they are choosing to do we need 
to understand. They are choosing to reenlist at numbers greater than 
any other area of the military. Why can't this body sit down and think 
for a moment; what do they see about this war that I don't see? Why do 
they keep leaving their families and going to a dangerous place time 
and time again, in numbers larger than any other group in the military? 
Do you know why they do it? I think they do it because they interact 
with the judges I have just described to you. They see hope. They 
understand the enemy. They know an enemy that will take a 5-year-old 
child and put that child in front of their parents, douse him with 
gasoline and set him on fire, is an enemy to their family. They 
understand that Iran is trying to drive us out of Iraq because they 
want to be stronger. And they understand that will mean they are likely 
to have to fight a bigger war.

From the troops' perspective, from my view, they want to come home, 
and they want a lot of things; but they want, above all others, the 
chance to win a war they believe they can win and one we cannot afford 
to lose.

I yield the floor.