---
---

# INCREASED ENERGY PRODUCTION
## `c3ebf54100923c7af5fc9d4093f3e406`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, of course the editorial was critical of 
both sides, which illustrates the point. In order to function in the 
Senate, the majority leader is not going to be allowed to say: Oh, I 
will allow you amendments, but I get to pick them. Every time we have 
had a serious issue come before the Senate, the best offer we have had 
in recent months has been: Oh, sure, we will have amendments, but I 
want to see them first and there are going to be a limited number. I 
can't think of much major legislation that has been able to go forward 
that way unless it enjoys overwhelming support on both sides of the 
aisle--for example, the supplemental to provide funding for our troops 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, where we have such broad support that there is 
widespread cooperation going forward. Normally, the way the Senate 
legislates is to let the Senate legislate.

I mean, my goodness, I mentioned this last week, and I will mention 
it again. The last sort of major, huge piece of legislation related to 
the environment was the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. We had 180 
amendments in the Senate, and it was a 5-week debate. It was a big, 
major, significant proposal in which both sides participated. It was a 
time in which Senator Mitchell was the Democratic leader and there was 
a Republican named Bush in the White House. That is the way we used to 
do business around here on major environmental legislation.

And I would say to my good friend that I understand the demands he 
has within his conference to protect his members from bad votes and the 
great desire to try to shut down the minority, but it just doesn't work 
that way in the Senate. And I think we ought to, on these big issues 
where there is a broad difference of opinion, go to these bills in a 
freewheeling and open way and explain to Members on both sides--I will 
explain to mine and he can explain to his--that the price for moving 
legislation in the Senate is that once in a while you have to cast a 
vote on something you wish you didn't. That is the price for doing 
major important legislation. I wish we could get back to that. It is 
obviously not going to happen today.

I yield the floor.