# THE SAFE AND ORDERLY WITHDRAWAL FROM IRAQ ACT
## `c3ee69b3033769a8ffb9c1ba4d68d875`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, there is no issue more important to the 
American people and to the Members of this Congress than the war in 
Iraq. Over 3,000 American military personnel have been killed in this 
war. Over 22,000 have been wounded in combat-related action. Some have 
been injured for life. Several thousand more of our troops have 
sustained serious injuries or suffered sickness while serving in Iraq; 
and tens of thousands of Iraqi men, women, and children dead.

So far, it has cost the United States $387 billion, and next week we 
will receive another supplemental request from the President in the 
range of $100 billion to $130 billion more.

In blood, in treasure, the costs of the war in Iraq have been high. I 
believe, Mr. Speaker, that we must change the dynamic in Iraq. We must 
end our occupation, engage the countries in the region to help the 
Iraqis negotiate an end to the sectarian violence tearing their country 
apart, and let the Iraqi people determine their own destiny.

I firmly believe, Mr. Speaker, there is no military victory to be had 
in Iraq. So I am convinced that we must focus our efforts on the 
uniformed men and women we have put in harm's way and bring them safely 
home. This is why I am introducing today the Safe and Orderly 
Withdrawal from Iraq Act.

This is a very straightforward bill, Mr. Speaker. Within 30 days of 
enactment, the United States would initiate a safe, orderly, and 
responsible withdrawal of all U.S. military forces from Iraq.



The withdrawal would take no more than 6 months and include the 
transfer to the Iraqi government of all bases and facilities that have 
been operated or occupied by U.S. military personnel. During the 
withdrawal period, funding is maintained to ensure that our forces have 
the ability to complete or transfer their duties in an orderly manner, 
defend themselves as necessary, and be fully supported as they move out 
of Iraq. Once the withdrawal is completed, defense funding for the war 
would end.

Under this bill, financial support and equipment could continue to be 
provided to the Iraqi security forces or to a multilateral force the 
Iraqi government might request for help in continuing the training of 
their forces and in providing security during the period of withdrawal 
and afterwards.

Nothing in this bill affects U.S. funding for economic and social 
reconstruction projects. The bill also allows the U.S. Army Corps of 
Engineers to complete reconstruction projects currently under way 
should the Iraqi government make such a request.

Finally, the bill asserts the authority of the President to arrange 
asylum for those Iraqi citizens who might be physically endangered by 
the withdrawal of our military presence. As we all know, many Iraqi 
civilians have bravely served our Armed Forces as translators, drivers, 
administrative staff and in other capacities. Should they be threatened 
with violence or retaliation because of their association with our 
forces, we should extend to them the protection they require and that 
they deserve.

Mr. Speaker, this bill does not walk away from Iraq. It maintains 
financial equipment and material support for the Iraqi military and 
security forces. It continues economic, social and reconstruction 
assistance for Iraq, and its impact would trigger greater diplomatic 
engagement in the region which is missing at the present moment.

Mr. Speaker, there are no easy answers for the many questions facing 
Iraq's future. There is no perfect legislative answer for the situation 
in Iraq. But I do know that our troops do not belong in the crossfire 
of a violent Iraqi sectarian war. The American people understand this. 
They are far ahead of the politicians in Washington. They want us to do 
what is right. They want us to bring our troops home, and they want 
that to happen in a safe, orderly and responsible manner.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that this war in Iraq is a moral blunder. I 
believe that the war in Iraq represents one of the biggest political, 
diplomatic and military mistakes in our history. It is time for us to 
end this war. I urge my colleagues to support the Safe and Orderly 
Withdrawal from Iraq Act.
