# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `c3f4212d834bb41e0c0c90d58ecae5d7`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. I thank my colleague from Arizona for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, as I listen to the debate today, I end up having a lot 
of more questions than I have answers. I have a question as to whether 
my colleagues on the other side of the aisle believe that the threat 
from radical jihadism is real or not. Have they read the latest 
Zawahiri statement, ''Advice of One Concerned,'' where he goes on to 
say in the statement, a global system, whose center and heart is the 
United States and the European Union? As for the rest of the states of 
the world, they are the outlying states.

It goes on to say, the strategy of al Qaeda, the only way to confront 
them, the core states, according to al Qaeda's theory, is by taking the 
war from the outlying states to the central states, in which case the 
damage and consequences of this damage will all take place in the 
central states.

Have they not read the other documents that come from al Qaeda that 
talk about what their strategy is? Their number one goal and objective 
is to defeat the United States and the coalition in Iraq, then to move 
out into the region and destabilize the other countries in the region, 
eliminate the State of Israel, establish the caliphate, Southern 
Europe, Northern Africa, the Middle East, stretch down into Asia and 
then establish Sharia law.

Do my colleagues on the other side of the aisle believe that radical 
Islam is a threat to the security of the United States and our allies, 
or not? If they don't, perhaps pulling out of Iraq is a good strategy. 
If they do believe that radical jihadism is a threat to the United 
States, if they do believe that looking at the reports in London, in 
Europe that radical jihadists actually have attacked in those places 
and that they may be attacking in the United States or planning to 
attack in the United States, the question becomes, if you are not 
willing to fight the threat of radical jihadism in Iraq, where will you 
engage radical jihadism, in other parts of the Middle East? Should we 
deploy our troops to other parts of the Middle East? Maybe we should 
just write off the Middle East and deploy into Northern Africa or into 
Western Europe, or maybe what we should do is bring them all home and 
redeploy them here in the United States, because they will follow us 
home.

So the question is, if you do believe it is a threat, where and when 
will you confront the threat that we face? Others have pointed it out. 
I have taken a look and read this resolution. I encourage all of the 
American people to read this bill. What does it say? Very, very little. 
It says that we will commence reductions of our troops. Commence 
reductions.

Exactly how many do you want to commence reducing? 100? 5,000? 
50,000? Then by April 1 there will be a plan for a limited presence. 
What is ''limited presence''? There are some that would say that the 
number of troops we have today is a limited presence, because they may 
not be enough to get the job done. But the bill doesn't define where we 
go. This is no plan.

If this is the way forward, we are in big, big trouble, because it 
doesn't recognize the threat and it doesn't have a plan as to how we 
are going to move forward.

But there are other things that this Congress should be debating. As 
our minority whip said, we debated for 45 minutes as to whether cats 
should be declawed before moving into public housing.

The previous question that was defeated earlier today would have 
enabled us to deal with a real issue, and that is the modernization of 
FISA, our ability to listen to radical jihadists in other parts of the 
world as they are communicating their plans and intentions. Today, 
there is a massive loophole in FISA for radical jihadists who are 
outside of the United States to communicate, and our intelligence 
community is prohibited from listening to them. We provide them the 
full protection of American law, even though they are not United States 
citizens, even though they are outside of the United States, and even 
though they are radical jihadists. Let us fix this problem, and let's 
make sure that we fix it before we go home in August. We should have 
done it today.