---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `c40870157fc223fc5534075626a9c334`
`Mr. WYNN — 19 July 2007`

---


Mr. WYNN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution. Our 
continued engagement in Iraq is obscene and pointless. We went into 
Iraq to thwart the development of weapons of mass destruction, then to 
effect regime change of a ruthless dictator, then to promote the 
establishment of a democratic government, then to our currently sad 
assessment that we cannot leave because it will result in a 
catastrophe--and now we find ourselves serving as policemen in the 
middle of a civil war.

The Administration can no longer deny, after 3,611 American soldiers 
dead, over a thousand American contractors dead and over twelve 
thousand wounded, an estimated 50 thousand or more Iraqis dead, and 
12,014 Americans severely injured and countless American families 
disrupted, that to continue down this path is both irresponsible and 
tragic.

We cannot resolve the Iraqi civil war. We cannot prop up a government 
that refuses to lead, and despite Vice President Cheney's fondest 
wishes, we will not be able to control Iraqi oil. It's past time to 
bring our troops home.

What about the aftermath of our leaving? The Shiite and Sunni in turn 
will have to look at each other and ask, now that the United States is 
gone what do we do? They can either continue killing each other or work 
for peace. The United States must disengage militarily, but we cannot 
abandon the Iraqi people. After our departure, the United States must 
work to assist Iraqis and the Muslim countries in the region to develop 
a peace process. I am confident the Iraqi people want peace, and 
neighboring countries don't want the sectarian conflict to spread 
across the region. Currently, we are an impediment to peace.

The United States should continue to provide humanitarian support and 
aid for reconstruction for schools and hospitals, with increased 
Congressional oversight. We must also support an Iraqi peace process, 
brokered by the parties in the region or respected 3rd


party religious leaders or the U.N. However, the United States does not 
have the credibility to broker such a process. It is time for the 
United States to get out of the way and become part of the solution 
instead of part of the problem.

It is time for United States to bring American troops home from Iraq.
