---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `c40f138e445f42a30e086a86b3395bfb`
`Mr. REED — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Madam President, I rise in support of the proposal my 
colleague Senator Levin has offered. I participated in this with him. 
This is a legislative proposal we have advanced in various forms for 
over a year. It seeks, quite simply, to initiate a withdrawal of our 
forces from Iraq. I think it is interesting to note that General 
Petraeus announced he too is recommending a withdrawal of forces, about 
5,700 troops, before the end of this year, which essentially complies 
with at least a portion of our proposal dating back over a year.

But it goes further than that. It would require a transition to three 
discrete missions from the open-ended war-based mission that today our 
forces are pursuing.

The first mission would be counterterrorism, which is essential not 
only in Iraq but across the globe. That requires attention, energy, and 
persistence, and we would urge and support such a mission in Iraq; not 
just in Iraq, but, frankly, worldwide.

The second mission would be to continue to train Iraqi security 
forces and provide robust training, support for those forces, because 
we need to provide the Iraqis the ability to defend themselves and 
pursue opponents of the legitimate Government of Iraq. Third, and 
something that is essential every time we deploy our forces, is to 
protect our forces, to give commanders in Iraq the ability and the 
forces needed to ensure that American forces will be protected. Those 
three missions represent not only what is in the long-term interest of 
the United States but also within the capacity of the United States to 
effectively carry out not just in the next several weeks or months but 
for a period of time.

My perspective has always been that the President is much more 
comfortable with slogans than strategies. We have a new one now, 
''return on success.'' It follows a long line of slogans, ranging from 
''when they stand up, we will stand down,'' ''mission accomplished,'' 
and many others. But what we need now at the national level, not at the 
circumscribed level of just Iraq, is a national strategy that in the 
long run will deal with the significant threats that face this country.

In the interim of our involvement with Iraq, starting several years 
ago, we have seen some remarkable developments which suggest very 
strongly that the strategy the President pursued is deeply flawed. We 
have seen the resurgence of al-Qaida. That is not the opinion of myself 
alone. It is the conclusion of the National Intelligence Estimate most 
recently released to the public. We are seeing a virtual--in fact, a 
real safe haven in Pakistan for bin Laden, Zawahiri, and others. And 
from that relative area of safety for them, unfortunately, they are 
able both to direct in a limited way actions across the globe and also 
to inspire other unrelated cells who are conducting these operations.

We just witnessed recently in Germany where, through good police and 
intelligence work, the capture of a cell comprising ethnic Germans who 
converted to Islam and Turks, who were contemplating a major terrorist 
attack against American facilities, not perhaps directly related to al-
Qaida but certainly inspired. And there is evidence that suggests 
perhaps there was even some remote link. But they are there in Pakistan 
in a safe haven. It seems to me ironic that the President would talk 
about creating a safe haven in Iraq when, for all intents and purposes, 
we are at least acknowledging, recognizing, perhaps even not 
effectively acting against the safe haven in Pakistan.

Also, when it comes to the discussion of a safe haven for Sunni 
jihadists in Iraq, we have to recognize, too, that one of the benefits 
of the last several weeks in Iraq has been what is required and called 
the Sunni awakening. That has been an incidental result of our 
increased troop presence. It was not the purpose, but certainly it is a 
favorable development. That is simply the result of Sunni sheiks 
realizing that Sunni jihadists of al-Qaida are more a threat to them, 
to their families, and to their way of life than the new government in 
Baghdad or the presence of American forces. Through the able and 
effective and courageous work of American soldiers and marines, these 
sheiks have been enlisted to attack and are attacking al-Qaida 
elements. That is a positive sign and tends, in my view, to mitigate 
against those dire warnings that there will be an automatic and 
predictable reflexive creation of a safe haven for al-Qaida in Iraq.

In addition, there is a Shia government there that is committed to 
certainly disrupting and eliminating Sunni insurgents, particularly al-
Qaida


insurgents. So we see, in terms of the strategic picture, a virtual or 
a real safe haven in Pakistan, arguably problems in Iraq, but certainly 
I think showing how our preoccupation in Iraq is taking our eye off a 
much more serious and potential threat.

The other very serious threat that faces us in the region and 
worldwide is the growth of Iran. That growth has been fueled by oil 
prices at $80 a barrel. That makes their bottom line look a lot better 
and gives them a greater sense of confidence as they look out and 
pursue their plans.

Second, frankly, is our vulnerabilities in Iraq, the fact that the 
Iranians have strong influence in that country, the fact that the 
government in Baghdad, the Maliki government, has not just associations 
but long-time associations with Iranians. They are coreligionists. I am 
not trying to suggest that they are agents or clones, but there 
certainly is a rapport and understanding and an appreciation of the 
proximity of the Iranians and their potential impact in Iraq. That 
situation has given rise to a resurgence and a strategically more 
empowered Iran. So you have a strategy that the President has pursued 
that has not mitigated these major threats against the United States 
but actually has enhanced them. That might be the definition of a bad 
strategy.

So our involvement in Iraq has taken us away from critical threats. 
In that term alone, we have to begin to think seriously about our 
approach forward. The status quo has not worked. There is scant 
evidence it will in the next several months.

There is another issue we have to look at. That is not only in terms 
of the strategic threats, but it is our capacity. The real driving 
factor in the proposal that General Petraeus made is not what is 
happening on the ground in Iraq, it is the force structure. It is the 
number of Army and marines that we have to commit. If you talked to 
anyone months ago, they could have told you essentially what General 
Petraeus was going to say, which is by next spring, beginning in April 
and going through July, we would have to reduce by 30,000 our forces in 
Iraq; that the surge had an end point unrelated to what was happening 
on the ground, to the success or lack of success. Simply we could not 
sustain that large a combat force on the ground. That is essentially 
what General Petraeus confirmed in his testimony to the Congress when 
he returned from his mission in Baghdad.


So we are limited in what we can do. That is not a function of 
success, return on success, or anything else. In fact, I was always 
under the impression that in a military context, when you have success, 
you reinforce it. You don't talk about a return on success, you 
reinforce it. But, quite frankly, we do not have the resources 
available to reinforce. So we are being driven by the constraints of 
our military forces more than what is happening on the ground. We have 
to respond to that.

It also drives the real question: In the next several months, after 
the surge is over and it has been announced it is over, what missions 
can we responsibly take on, what missions will support our national 
security, and what missions will be within the grasp of our manpower 
and personnel resources? Again, that underscores the need for change 
and underscores the need for adoption of limited missions as we propose 
in the Reed-Levin amendment.

When General Petraeus came before the committee, he made several 
points. First, he would recommend a redeployment of forces this year. 
That is something we have been arguing for and urging for over a year, 
many of us. Many accusations have been hurled at us that we were 
irresponsible and reckless. They are not being hurled at General 
Petraeus. But the reality is, he, too, recognizes that we have to begin 
to redeploy our forces. Second, he is talking about reducing the forces 
by 30,000. If you recall, the military premise of the surge was, if you 
inserted 30,000 additional troops focused on Baghdad, you would have 
now sufficient forces to conduct a different type of mission, 
population protection. You could disperse them in the localities. You 
could conduct more aggressive patrolling.

I think the announcement by General Petraeus that those troops are 
coming out begs the obvious question: How do you maintain that 
population protection mission without those 30,000 troops, and 
particularly without, as most people recognize, the ability of the 
Government of Iraq to replace our forces with reliable Iraqi security 
forces? In a sense, the progress we have seen--and there is progress on 
the ground; there is tactical momentum. No one should be surprised when 
we commit American forces to a mission that they obtain dramatic and 
immediate results. But the real question is, are those successes 
permanent or transitory? Are they reversible or irreversible?

My sense is that they are highly reversible, that as we depart, 
insurgents, opponents of the Government in Iraq, will move back in and 
try to exploit the absence. Without a sufficient and reliable Iraqi 
security force, that probably could be accomplished. So I think that 
just the numbers drive us to start thinking about missions that we can 
perform.

The other factor of General Petraeus's testimony is that he very 
clearly begged off from any suggestion of what do we do after next June 
or July. Frankly, we have to have a strategy, a plan that goes beyond 
the next 6 months. It is unsatisfactory that both, it seems, the 
President and, indeed, the commander on the ground will say simply they 
don't know. No one knows perfectly, but we have to have at least their 
sense of what their best guidance is beyond that in terms of troop 
levels, in terms of some of the questions I have raised.

Going back, again, to this notion of troop levels, if you recall, the 
focal point of the surge was stabilizing Baghdad, a large city, stable 
population. But the operations since then necessarily have taken our 
forces well beyond Baghdad, and the areas in dispute in Iraq are well 
beyond Baghdad. So the simple calculation of military forces versus 
population has been thrown out the window in the sense of the 
appropriate level of forces versus the real population and the real 
area that we are trying to stabilize.

In this regard, we have to recognize what is happening in the south; 
that is, the British forces are, for all intents and purposes, 
withdrawing into base camps. Their presence has shrunk dramatically, 
roughly 5,000 troops. That area now is becoming an area that is 
extremely hospitable to Shia militia, to Iranian influences, and has a 
long-term potential to provide further instability in the country. Yet 
we don't have the forces to go down there. We are not attempting to go 
down there, and yet that poses a real challenge to the long-run 
security and safety and stability of the country.

I sense, for all these different reasons, that we do have to change 
our course. That is at the heart of the Levin-Reed amendment, to 
identify, first, clearly the direction of our forces, which is to begin 
a phased redeployment; second, to focus on missions that are within our 
capacity and will, to the best of our capacity, advance our interests 
in the region, not just in Iraq but in the whole region.

We all were waiting for the report of General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker. There were other reports. General Jones and the General 
Accounting Office came forth almost simultaneously. We hoped these 
reports would provide both the President and the Congress with the 
information they needed to begin to change our direction in Iraq.

Unfortunately, it appears at this juncture, unless we are successful 
with this amendment, that change is not going to take place.

The GAO was the first to release their report, and it was sobering by 
anyone's standards. Of the 18 economic, security, and legislative 
benchmarks set by the Iraqis themselves last January, GAO found that 3 
had been met, 4 had been partially met, and 11 had not been met.

I think it is important to emphasize--because now the benchmarks were 
being seen as, oh, just some interesting construct of the Congress 
unrelated to what was happening in Iraq, et cetera--but these were the 
points the Iraqis stressed as critical to their progress. They were the 
points that were deliberately embraced by the President of the United 
States.

In January, when he talked about the surge, part of that--a large 
part of it--


was to allow the Iraqis the political space, the time to achieve these 
benchmarks. What appears to have happened, having failed the test, the 
President decided the test was not worth giving, and he ignores the 
results. But those results, I think, speak volumes.

For example, the Iraqi Government still has not completed revisions 
to the constitution, or enacted legislation on de-baathification, oil 
revenue-sharing, provincial elections, amnesty, or military 
disarmament.

When Ambassador Crocker was here, he said: Well, we have not done it 
formally out there, but they informally are distributing the oil 
revenues. That goes, I think, to the point I have tried to suggest in 
other contexts. If it is informal, then it is highly reversible. If it 
is informal, it is transitory. Legislation is not as reversible and 
transitory. We do a lot of that around here, but at least you have to 
go back through the legislative process. But these informal 
arrangements may be just temporary and expedient, and probably are 
temporary and expedient. But the real work, the commitment the 
Government of Iraq made months ago to make these changes, has not been 
accomplished.

The Iraqi Government has not eliminated militia control of local 
security, eliminated political intervention in military operations, 
ensured evenhanded enforcement of the law, increased Army units capable 
of independent operations or ensured that political authorities made no 
false accusations against security forces.

Again, we have been engaged for years in training Iraqi security 
forces. At the entry level of that training--to give the ability of a 
squad leader to read a map, to call indirect fire, to call a medevac--
we have made progress. To give the skills for an individual infantryman 
to low-crawl, to clear a building, we have made progress. But it is at 
the critical levels where politics and security intersect that there 
has not been the adequate progress. That is the most decisive level. 
Until there is a force in Iraq that is not only technically capable but 
can operate with a certain degree of independence, then their ability 
is, I think, undermined. We are making progress in that direction.

The Levin-Reed amendment calls for the continued training to achieve 
not just technical proficiency but we hope some day a force that is 
professionally capable and deployed in a way where they can secure the 
country of Iraq--their country--without fear or favor with respect to 
political or sectarian allegiance.

Now, the Iraqi Government also pledged to spend $10 billion of their 
own money on reconstruction. We have sent billions of American dollars 
over there for reconstruction. To date, only $1.5 billion of Iraqi 
funds has been allocated to do that. I think it raises the question 
among many Americans: If we are spending all these billions of 
dollars--and the President is going to send the supplemental up shortly 
asking for billions and billions of dollars more--why cannot the Iraqis 
spend at least their own money they have for their own people for their 
own needs? I think it is a question that the longer it goes unanswered, 
the more unsettling it is to the American public.

The GAO also noted:




 It is unclear whether sectarian violence in Iraq has 


 decreased--a key security benchmark--since it is difficult to 


 measure the perpetrators intent and other measures of 


 population security show differing trends.


The situation, which is understandable given the chaotic nature, 
given the conflicting motivations that are engulfing the country and 
producing violence--it is hard to say what is criminality, what is a 
politically motivated event, what is the mixture of the two--but these 
measures, I think from our perspective, whether they go up or down, 
probably do not suggest the atmosphere which most Iraqis endure, which 
is an atmosphere of violence, potential violence, of fear. It is an 
atmosphere that has caused 2 million people to be external refugees, 2 
million people, roughly, to be internally displaced.

It also is reflected in polling conducted within Iraq about the sense 
of security and the sense of the future the Iraqi people have. These 
numbers have been declining. It was at a zenith, obviously, after the 
operations in March 2003. But since then there has been, I think, a 
significant and continued deterioration. Because this violence--to us 
it makes a difference that it is sectarian versus criminal--but to 
someone on the street, it is violence. Again, the progress in 
stabilizing the country that the Iraqi Government said they were 
committed to has not materially been changed throughout the country.

Now, General Petraeus and General Jones did report improvements in 
the Iraqi security forces, and they should be recognized. But the 
progress is uneven and slow. I suggested at the zenith, where it is 
most critical in terms of stability of the country, where it is 
commanders, not squad leaders, who are making decisions, that is the 
most difficult to achieve, and it is, so far, lagging based upon the 
reports we have heard.

Now, we recognize the last 2 years have been enormously challenging 
for the Government of Iraq and our participation there. We recognize, 
too, that both General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker came with great 
experience, great professional acumen, and great patriotic service to 
the country, and gave us their best report.


There is another aspect of this debate which is as important as what 
is going on in Iraq, and that is what is going on in the United States. 
Frankly, the support for our operations has rapidly faded since the 
heady days of March 2003. Before the September reports by Ambassador 
Crocker and General Petraeus and the speech by the President, 64 
percent of Americans polled by CBS felt things were going badly in 
Iraq; after the reports and speech, 63 percent.

My point is, that is an important factor in the conduct of any 
national security policy: the support of the American people. In fact, 
the manual General Petraeus helped author at Fort Leavenworth, the 
counterinsurgency manual, makes that point specifically, that public 
support within the United States is a critical--critical--attribute for 
policy, particularly long-term policy in a counterinsurgency conflict.

We have seen, frankly, the American public being quite concerned, in 
fact disheartened, about what is happening in Iraq. I think that also 
calls--in addition to what is happening on the ground--for a change in 
our policy, for a change in the direction Senator Levin and I are 
suggesting.

It is very difficult and some would argue impossible for any 
administration to carry out a policy without the strong support of the 
United States, particularly a policy that does not seem to be matched 
by an equal commitment by those whom we are trying to help. I believe 
we do need a change of policy, not only because it is a more effective 
way to go forward, but it, I think, would represent to the American 
people a needed sense that we have heard them, we are moving forward, 
and we are moving forward in a way that can be sustained and be 
supported by the American people.

Everyone has to recognize the extraordinary contribution of our 
military forces. They are serving well, and they continue to serve 
well. But I think their effort has to be matched by a wiser policy on 
our part. That policy, I think, is necessary. I hope we can do that 
within the context of the amendment we propose.

There is another issue here, too, and that is not just public support 
but also the financial support. We are spending $12 billion a month in 
Iraq, Afghanistan, et cetera. That price keeps going up. We understand 
the costs are not short term. There are hundreds of thousands of 
veterans coming out of the gulf who for the next 50 years will require 
support and assistance. This is not going to be something that when we 
look back 5 or 10 years, even when the fighting stops, we can ignore. 
We have a long-term commitment to these individuals and a long-term 
costly commitment. We have to measure our policy against our resources, 
not just the brave men and women who serve, but our ability to finance 
their operations and finance their long-term care as they come back.

This amendment, as I indicated previously, calls for a transition 
which I believe is long overdue, a transition to counterterrorism, a 
transition to training Iraqi security forces, and protection of our 
forces, coalition forces. I think the transition will help us in terms 
of what is happening on the ground, what is happening in the country, 
and what should be happening in the region.



Also, our amendment talks about a very aggressive diplomatic 
approach, something I think has been missing. We have to engage the 
regional community and the world community to help us. I think there 
might be an opportunity, indeed, when we talk about the context of 
training, to go forward to our allies in NATO and say: You could help 
us on this training mission. This is not a direct combat operation. 
This is something well within the capacity of your armies across the 
globe. This could put an international approach to our problems, which 
would be very helpful not only in terms of putting men and women on the 
ground to assist the Iraqi security forces, but indicating this is not 
America's problem alone, this is an issue that should be addressed by 
all the nations of the world.

Now, for 5 years our military forces have fought with valor, courage, 
and sacrifice. Their families have borne their absences. They have 
supported them remarkably and magnificently, and I think that has to be 
recognized. But we have to provide them a diplomatic support that has 
been lacking all these years.

Many of my colleagues have traveled to Iraq many times. I have. Since 
the beginning, there has not been an adequate complement through 
diplomats and AID personnel and agronomists, and all the specialists 
you need to provide the public nonkinetic--as military people describe 
it--aspects of counterinsurgency. Those forces have been lacking. There 
have been efforts recently to improve them, but they are still 
significantly lacking.

So for many years--all these years--we have had an Army and Marine 
Corps at war, supported--I should say not just supported but it has 
intimately involved all our services--but we have not had the full 
commitment of our national resources. We have not had a full commitment 
of our civilian agencies that is so necessary. Today, that, I think, is 
not being manifested enough. So for that reason, also, I think we have 
to recognize a change is necessary.

I hope we can change the policy. I think in the long term it will be 
beneficial to the United States. I hope we will allow ourselves to 
begin to focus more resources on threats that are, I think, much more 
severe: the virtual safe haven in Pakistan from where bin Laden sends 
tapes to us and al-Zawahiri sends tapes to us that inspire terrorist 
organizations in Europe that are approaching closer and closer to the 
United States--that was, I think, the whole premise for our global war 
on terrorism, to effectively prevent another attack on our homeland--
the growing power of Iran, not only in terms of its influence in the 
region, its connection to other terrorist groups, but its aspirations 
to be a nuclear power, which we are finding very difficult to counter 
diplomatically.

I hope we can refocus our efforts in Iraq, and we can also refocus 
our efforts to meet these other emerging and very dangerous threats.

With that, I yield the floor.