---
---

# CLEAN ENERGY
## `c41abd7d667c78b1eee63a39ac72d7da`
`Mr. INSLEE — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. INSLEE. And I think it is important to point out the tremendous 
payback to our economy of relatively small Federal investments. Look at 
the computer industry. It grew by leaps and bounds because of the 
Apollo project. There is more computing power now on a wrist watch than 
there was in the original Apollo space vehicle because we developed 
computer based software systems as part of the Apollo project.

Our medical device industry with these exotic materials largely came 
from the American space program, and these were relatively small 
investments.

By the way, we spend less today on research and energy than we do in 
a month in Iraq by a factor of about 10, just to put this in 
perspective. We are talking about for a family's budget a lot of money, 
but for the Federal budget fairly small amounts of money that can have 
absolutely tremendous payoffs.

I want to talk about one other thing that we think we need to help 
these companies too, though. If you want to start a company that will 
generate clean electricity with no carbon dioxide emissions today, you 
don't have a huge advantage because of a loophole in the law that a 
coal company has right now that is putting their carbon dioxide up the 
stack. That coal company that has what we call dirty coal, where you 
just burn it and you put your carbon dioxide, you dump it into the 
atmosphere, they have a huge loophole in the law because they can put 
as much CO2 into the air as they want the tape. They can't 
put as much sulfur dioxide, they can't put as much nitrogen oxide, they 
can't put as much particulate matter, but they can put as much 
CO2 into our atmosphere that you and I own jointly, with no 
charge. And the company that is going to make a clean industry, they 
don't get any benefit like that. We have to close that loophole. There 
has to be a way that there is some charge imposed on polluters who use 
our atmosphere to dump their carbon dioxide. And that is a loophole 
that needs to be closed to help these innovators as well to level the 
playing field.

Now it is really interesting. We are getting some support for this 
idea from some unusual sources. Duke Energy, I think, the third or 
fourth largest electrical utility in the United States, they burn 
massive amounts of coal, I think 40 or 50 percent or more of their 
electricity is produced by coal. But they recognize the need to have 
what they call a cap and trade system that caps the amount of carbon 
dioxide going into the atmosphere. And in part they realize that, I 
think, because when you impose some cost on this pollution it inspires 
these new companies to be able to create new technologies that are 
clean. So we hope ultimately the U.S. Congress will adopt a measure 
that will level the playing field and not allow these dirty plants to 
continue to pollute our atmosphere for nothing. You know, when you and 
I go to the dump it costs us 25 bucks to dump our pickup load of junk 
at the dump. But a company that burns coal can put their carbon dioxide 
and just dump it into our atmosphere, gigatons for nothing. That needs 
to change