---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `c4337d9a75a2abfd042d06c7c51123b7`
`Mr. DODD — 24 December 2009`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today 
to mark the passing and honor the service of Marine CPL Xhacob LaTorre 
of Waterbury, CT.

Corporal LaTorre died this week of wounds he sustained from a 
roadside bomb while on patrol in Afghanistan's Helmand province. He 
would have celebrated his 22nd birthday last Saturday.

Corporal LaTorre graduated from Crosby High School where he was 
active in the ROTC program. A born leader, he joined the Marine Corps 
in 2005. He was on his third tour of duty, having served two tours in 
Iraq and was awarded a good conduct citation and a Purple Heart.

In his too short time, Corporal LaTorre proved himself as a soldier 
and a patriot. The bravery and dedication he showed as a marine, 
however, was just one side of his personality. To his friends and 
family, Xhacob will be remembered as an outgoing and energetic young 
man with a kind heart, a penchant for mischief, and an infectious sense 
of humor.

As a young boy, Xhacob earned pocket money by going from table to 
table at a restaurant, charming patrons and earning a dollar for each 
joke he told.

That young boy grew into a man of integrity and courage. His service 
and his sacrifice are a credit to his parents, Daniel and Nicole. I 
know how proud they are of him, and I hope they know that we grieve 
alongside them. They, along with Xhacob's wife, Frances, and his young 
son, Javier, are in our hearts.

It may seem at times a sad irony that our best and brightest young 
men and women are the ones who go into battle and sometimes do not come 
home, having given their lives in service to their country. But that is 
what keeps our Nation strong and free.

All of us in Connecticut and across America mourn the loss of CPL 
Xhacob LaTorre. And none of us will ever forget the debt of gratitude 
we owe to him and his family.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record the attached 
articles.