---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `c43799f4d46eb3f4a4ce4312ca368275`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 2642, the 
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for 
Fiscal Year 2008. This measure shows what a high priority our Nation 
places on providing for our servicemembers, their families and our 
veterans.

The new Democratic leadership in Congress has faced many challenges 
in recent months regarding the treatment of servicemembers and 
veterans. Earlier this year, we learned about horrific conditions at 
the Walter Reed Army Medical Center, including overused outpatient 
housing in disrepair, patients confused about where to go after serious 
operations, and the tangled bureaucracy confronting servicemembers and 
their families. It was clear that administrative policies needed to be 
revised, not only at Walter Reed, but across the system at locations 
both here and abroad.

It was also clear that increasing the funding level for military 
health care was a priority. As a result, Congress passed a supplemental 
spending bill that contained an additional $1.8 billion for veterans' 
health care, and today we will pass a bill that is $6.7 billion above 
fiscal year 2007 funds and $3.8 billion over President Bush's request. 
The total amount in this bill is even more than what is requested in 
the Independent Budget, a needs estimate published by four veterans' 
service groups. If passed, H.R. 2642 will mark the largest annual 
increase to VA health care funding in over 75 years.

Mr. Chairman, we must ensure that servicemembers wounded in Iraq and 
Afghanistan have the services they require and as well anticipate the 
increasing number of returning veterans who have earned their promised 
benefits. To that end, H.R. 2642 provides $43.2 billion for veterans 
medical care to alleviate the backlogged claims processing system and 
fund improvements for VA facilities. I am also pleased that this 
measure allots $600 million for new initiatives for improving mental 
health and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) centers, $1.9 billion 
to improve the electronic health records system, and $130 million to 
assist homeless veterans.

After a recent visit to the Providence VA Medical Center, I was 
impressed with the treatment of veterans, as well as the ongoing 
innovative research at the facility. I am also optimistic that upcoming 
construction projects will improve the facility, especially knowing 
that the VA will play a larger role in the coming years as more 
servicemembers return from ongoing conflicts. Today's bill provides 
$4.1 billion for ongoing maintenance and renovations of existing 
facilities, which will help Providence attain its goals. I am also 
pleased that $15 million is allocated for the Health Care Sharing 
Incentive Fund, which allows the Department of Defense and VA to 
increase research, improve access to care, and ensure a seamless 
transition for our veterans.

H.R. 2642 also includes $21.4 billion for military construction. This 
amount is $5.1 billion above the amount for fiscal year 2007, and will 
fully fund Base Realignment and Closure. This funding will also help 
improve training and quality of life facilities for active duty troops 
and members of the National Guard and Reserves, all of whom are playing 
critical roles in ongoing conflicts and need our support now more than 
ever. Finally, this measure includes $2.8 billion to help increase the 
size of the Army, Marine Corps, the National Guard and Reserves over 
the next five years.

Mr. Chairman, we must maintain strong support for our men and women 
in uniform and all those who have bravely served our nation, and H.R. 
2642 will do just that. May we all keep those currently serving abroad 
in our thoughts and wish them a safe return home.