---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `c43a00f22d97d214e4bf67db0a44c785`
`Ms. LEE of California — 1 July 2010`

---


Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I want to first thank Chairman 
Obey for his incredible leadership on this supplemental. It was a very 
difficult job to put this together, but you have done a phenomenal job.

Let me also thank the Chair of the Rules Committee, Congresswoman 
Slaughter, and Speaker Pelosi, for their leadership and for allowing 
this important discussion and amendment.

Also I would like to applaud Congressman McGovern for his thoughtful 
and important amendment. He and Mr. Obey set forth this amendment that 
we will vote on today. I strongly support it and their efforts to get 
an exit strategy to end this war.

My amendment is very straightforward. It would prevent any escalation 
or any ongoing combat operation in Afghanistan and limit the funding to 
the safe and orderly withdrawal of our troops and military contractors 
from Afghanistan.

It is critical to understand that this amendment would provide for 
the safety of our troops, civilian personnel, and contractors while 
troop withdrawal takes place. It does not allow funding for ongoing 
combat operations or for this escalation. It is not a cut-and-run 
amendment. It would not leave our troops stranded in harm's way.

Simply put, this amendment provides for the safe and orderly 
withdrawal of


our troops from Afghanistan, and we need it because the reality is that 
there is no military solution to Afghanistan. In fact, the occupation 
of Afghanistan is making us less safe. Our occupation is a prime 
recruiting tool for the insurgency and for al Qaeda.

If we remember, nearly 9 years ago the reason the authorization was 
granted, which I could not support, was to provide authorization to go 
after al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden. Well, nearly a decade later, what 
are we doing there? We need to redefine this mission. We need to begin 
the safe, timely withdrawal of U.S. troops and military contractors, 
and we should do so by adopting this amendment today which stops this 
funding.

A few months from now, the war from Afghanistan will enter, as I 
said, its tenth year. It is already the longest war in our Nation's 
history, longer than Vietnam and the Civil War, and there is really no 
end in sight. In fact, this concern of ''war without end'' again is why 
I opposed the resolution authorizing military force on September 14, 
2001. It was a blank check then, and it remains a blank check now.

I think it is important to take a moment and put the evolution of 
this war in context, because we have to remember that, again, there was 
no discussion about the potential consequences of invading Afghanistan. 
The debate we are having today should have happened 10 years ago.

Few people imagined that we would have nearly 100,000 troops there a 
decade later, despite the fact that the CIA estimates that there may be 
only 50 to 100 al Qaeda in Afghanistan. So we have to be honest; the 
war is not working. The Afghan government is plagued by incompetence 
and corruption, The Afghan Security Forces are in shambles, and, 
tragically, just over 1,000 servicemen and -women have lost their 
lives.

It is clear that our servicemen and -women have performed with 
incredible courage and commitment. They have done everything we have 
asked them to do. As the daughter of a 25-year military officer, my dad 
was a lieutenant colonel in the Army, I understand and know the 
sacrifices these families are making. But the truth is, they have been 
put in an impossible situation. The Afghan government is anything but a 
reliable partner, and conditions on the ground make winning over the 
Afghan people extremely difficult, if not nearly an impossible task.

Sadly, this war has no end in sight. We are bound to see the generals 
come back to us and ask us for more money, more time, and more troops 
if they say it is going well. If it is not going well, I expect to see 
the generals come back and ask for more money, more time, and more 
troops.

So regardless of the situation, unless Congress does something, and 
we have to face this, if Congress allows this, it will be an endless 
war. So enough is enough. The U.S. has no choice but to pursue and 
support a political and diplomatic solution in Afghanistan. We must be 
about that hard work now.

So please join me in supporting the safe and orderly withdrawal of 
our troops. We can and we must responsibly bring them home and end this 
war now.

I reserve the balance of my time.