# IRAQ
## `c43a347b2e7397752d1ab7ebff7abf05`
`Mr. CARTER — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Speaker for recognizing me for 
this hour. We are up here this evening because I have had a chance to 
go to Iraq recently, and some of the things that I have heard in the 
House just a few minutes ago don't ring up with what I observed when I 
was in Iraq.

But I want to start off by saying this: When I went back home this 
past month, all over my district the main thing I heard from the people 
on Iraq, get the politics out of it and just tell us the truth of what 
you know and let us try to figure it all out together, and why don't we 
try to figure this out together instead of thinking about who is going 
to win the next election or who is going to get the next advantage in 
the political process. I kept hearing that over and over.

I want to get up, and some of my colleagues tonight are going to talk 
about what they know. Some of them have a lot more wisdom than I do 
because they have been there more times than I have and have had more 
experiences.

My experience is relatively limited. I have been to Iraq four times 
since I have been in Congress, the last time being late in the month of 
July. I went on a long weekend to Iraq. So I was there the first time 
right after we caught Saddam Hussein. The second time I was there was 
just before the elections took place. The third time was May a year ago 
when we were pondering what to do and there was discussion of Petraeus 
having a plan. And then recently this July.

I can tell you that the difference between May and July is the 
difference between daylight and dark as far as the comments that I 
received from American fighting men and women and from Iraqis that I 
visited with while I was there for what was just a real long weekend.

Soldiers are always proud of their mission and accept their mission, 
and they do their mission and duty and we should always be proud of 
them. But you didn't hear the kind of comments that we have heard now 
about the enthusiasm that our soldiers have for the fact that ordinary 
Iraqi citizens, as we say in baseball, are stepping up to the plate and 
they are taking a swing, and that swing is helping our soldiers and our 
marines as they do their duty to try to eliminate al Qaeda from being 
that thorn in the side of Iraqi freedom that is causing the ultimate 
cause of all of this violence that is going on in Iraq.

Someone here tonight said there is brazen political maneuvers. Well, 
what I am saying has nothing to do with politics. It has to do with the 
fact that within my district, I have 52,000 soldiers who reside within 
my district, all of whom have been deployed at least once and some as 
many as three times in Iraq. I have the largest military facility that 
exists in the United States, Fort Hood.

Our guys told us a lot of good news, and I will report the bad news. 
The bad news they told us is that 15 months is tough and it is hard on 
their families and they hope we can get this mission done so we don't 
have to continue 15-month rotations.

So I don't come back just preaching good news. Our military, our 
soldiers don't like the 15-month rotation, but they do their duty. But 
time and time again I had soldiers tell me: Man, whatever you do, don't 
pull the rug out from under us just as we are starting to see daylight. 
We are committed in blood, sweat and tears over here, and the Nation 
has committed its resources and we are seeing the light at the end of 
the tunnel. Don't pull out the rug now. If you do, don't ask me to come 
back when this place goes to hell in a handbasket. That is a quote from 
a sergeant.

We have to think about this. We have big decisions to make this fall. 
General Petraeus is going to come over here, and he will tell us the 
truth about what is going on, and I don't think it is all going to be a 
beautiful, rosy picture. But I do think he is going to tell you what 
ordinary soldiers and ordinary marines told me, and that is, as 
compared to 6 to 9 months ago, it is substantially better. It has to do 
with the fact that we now have the necessary troops on the ground.

I would like to correct an error that a general asked me to correct. 
The surge did not start in February of this year. The surge was 
announced. The surge started the second week in July of this year. That 
is when the entire 30,000-soldier contingency was in Iraq, and at that 
point in time the plan began to be executed.

But the idea that we were building up troops brought good news. The 
surge is now less than 6 weeks old. That's the truth about what the 
surge is. In fact, one of the people who is in charge of bringing these 
additional forces to Iraq told me, he said: You know, I hear you are 
having votes to pull out in 2 weeks or 2 months. Well, just tell 
somebody it took us a hard 6 months to get 30,000 soldiers over here, 
and if you think you can move 160,000 out of here in 120 days, you have 
lost your mind. It can't be done.

The reality of that war is they come over there on ships, and just 
like they did in the Second World War, they train before they go in, 
and when they are ready, they go in. And the whole 30,000 finally 
arrived in July.

So the picture, as I see it, is good news because of Iraqi 
involvement, and we will talk some more about that. Right now I would 
like to recognize Chris Shays, my colleague who has probably been to 
Iraq more than any Member of this Congress. Congressman Shays, do you 
want to share your feelings.