---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `c4415c4dfc66862703ff89004b0fba69`
`Mr. CASTLE — 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 4156, the 
short-term war supplemental appropriations bill. Although I plan to 
oppose this bill, I am also pleased that its authors included several 
provisions meant to improve transparency and ensure U.S. troops are 
adequately trained and mission capable. Hopefully, the inclusion of 
these provisions


signifies the beginning of real progress, and I plan to work with my 
colleagues to develop a unified approach to address the challenges we 
face in Iraq.

Our soldiers in Iraq continue to do tremendous work and it is 
critical that we provide them with the resources they need to improve 
security. Unfortunately, the bill before us today would delay important 
troop-protection and equipment funds requested by the Pentagon. 
According to Department officials, delaying these funds would also 
force the Pentagon to begin borrowing from its regular defense budget, 
which in turn could impact important operating funds for troops and 
military bases.

Additionally, I am concerned that this legislation would condition 
troop funding on the initiation of an immediate redeployment from Iraq. 
Although I strongly support a responsible strategy for bringing U.S. 
troops home, these decisions should not be mandated by Members of 
Congress without close consultation with our military and foreign 
policy leaders in the field. Furthermore, the U.S. commander in Iraq, 
GEN David Petraeus, has already set forth a plan to bring home a full 
combat brigade this month and at least five brigades by July of next 
year. Congress should perform strong oversight with respect to the 
redeployment process, but placing restrictions on our military 
commanders is not helpful in their efforts to achieve stability and 
bring troops home.

Still, I support language in the bill that would improve 
accountability and increase transparency by requiring regular reports 
on the status of the military's redeployment plans. In the same way, I 
support sections of the bill that would ensure military units are 
properly trained and prepared for deployments. Embracing a 
comprehensive regional security plan and prohibiting torture are also 
key provisions which I continue to support. In fact, I recently 
cosponsored legislation identical to the anti-torture provisions 
included in H.R. 4156.

The leaders of the U.S. Senate have already made clear that this 
legislation does not have the votes necessary for passage and therefore 
many of these important provisions will be left on the table. 
Therefore, I call on my colleagues to embrace the substantive areas of 
this bill where we can find agreement, and join me in committing to a 
bipartisan approach for achieving stability.

Mr. Speaker, the Bipartisan Compact on Iraq Debate, of which I am an 
original author, identifies the areas where Democrats and Republicans 
have found agreement. Let us embrace these points of agreement and move 
forward in supporting our troops serving in combat.
