---
---

# CHANGING THE DIRECTION OF THE COUNTRY'S BUDGET
## `c44a47f4ebe167845c228aa4d51c2e4b`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. I thank my distinguished colleague.

He raises an important point because there are two different types of 
expenditures that we make in this Congress and that everyone makes. You 
can spend money that basically goes down the drain and never yields any 
kind of positive return, or you can invest money that pays back in 
manifold times over the years.

I know that I call my colleague Mr. Kagen; in fact, he is a 
physician. I should say Dr. Kagen. I raise that because one of the 
things that the President's budget did, it would do if we were to enact 
it, which of course we won't, but is to cut funding for the National 
Institutes of Health. It seems to me that we're facing, as a country, 
this enormous exposure financially over the next several generations 
because of health care costs. We can try to tax our way out of it, 
raise more money to pay for it; we can try to use cost containment 
measures, which probably are not going to be that effective because 
every time you try to cut down on what you spend for health care, you 
reduce access to it; or we can invest money now in the type of research 
that will cure the very diseases that are going to cost us the most 
down the road. So if we spent $20 billion and we're able to cure cancer 
within the next 5 years, that would save us trillions of dollars long 
term as a society. The same with diabetes, the same with almost every 
disease we can mention. Yet the President's budget reduces funding on 
an inflation basis from the last year's budget. This is the type of 
thing where we should be investing more money because down the road 
these will pay off, not necessarily for us, in fact, but for our 
children and future generations.

It's the same way with energy and it's the same way with 
infrastructure. These are the types of investments and expenditures 
which this budget, the Democratic budget, emphasizes. This is our 
focus. And this is the type of expenditure that the President's budget


ignores. And that represents a very fundamental difference in our 
approaches.

Clearly, we have one big elephant in the room. I don't say that in 
partisan terms. I will use gorilla. We have one big object in the room, 
and that is our expenditure in Iraq. If we continue to spend $150, 
$170, $200 billion a year in Iraq, that is money that doesn't represent 
an investment. It represents money being flushed down the drain. That's 
something that we have a serious policy dispute with and that's a very 
controversial subject around the country, but it's the type of 
expenditure that is keeping us from doing the type of investment that 
will yield returns down the road.

I'm very happy that my colleague mentioned infrastructure and 
investment because that is where we're going to have to focus our 
activity, our attention. Because unless we do that, we are destined for 
the same type of borrow-and-spend society and economy as opposed to an 
invest-and-reap-the-reward society that we can have otherwise.

We have a fundamental debate with our colleagues from across the 
aisle and with the administration in the White House and we're going to 
have to continue to fight this until we can convince the American 
people that the long-term approach, investing in people and 
infrastructure and research, are the answers to our long-range 
problems. And the Republican budget, the President's budget, is 
something that takes us in the wrong direction.

With that, I would ask my colleague to respond to or react to those 
comments.