---
---

# None
## `c450ea23b0327a7ccfcd1ccc3ced4ca5`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota â€” 4 August 2007`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
H.R. 2929 which bans the construction and use of permanent bases in 
Iraq. This legislation sends an important message to the people of Iraq 
and the rest of the world that the United States does not intend to 
remain in Iraq permanently and does not intend to control Iraqi oil 
resources.

Based on current negative views of so many across the globe, it would 
be extremely dangerous for the United States, its citizens and our 
armed forces to remain in Iraq indefinitely. Previous provisions like 
the one before us today have been in legislation that bans our military 
forces from remaining in Iraq permanently; however, these provisions 
will expire on September 30, 2007. With recent statements made by the 
Bush Administration suggesting a long-term presence of our troops in 
Iraq, the time is now for Congress to speak out and reflect the views 
of the American people.

H.R. 2929 sends a clear message to Americans and the rest of the 
world that the Iraqi government and the many cultural and ethnic groups 
that live there that they need to work together to achieve national 
sovereignty and peace. Relying on the United States is the wrong 
position for Iraqis as it will not develop their national identity and 
strength.

The bipartisan Iraq Study Group made it very clear that the United 
States must not remain in Iraq permanently. H.R. 2929 accomplishes this 
task and I commend the gentlewoman from California, Ms. Lee. for 
bringing this bill to the Floor today. I urge all my colleagues to 
support it.
