---
---

# PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE COOPERATION ACT OF 2007
## `c4547b30b5b2475568520164a8f6a645`
`Mr. KYL — 14 May 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. First, I compliment Senator Warner and Senator Webb for 
several weeks ago crafting legislation to provide some changes in our 
GI benefits for educational purposes. I support an alternative measure 
which has been developed in the weeks since then, among other things, 
because the Defense Department, led by Secretary Gates, has analyzed 
the requirements that the Defense Department has and has suggested a 
different approach than that originally taken by Senators Warner and 
Webb. That approach is embodied in legislation authored by Senator 
Graham, Senator McCain, Senator Burr, and others. It is S. 2938. I will 
describe the key point in a moment, but I was very disappointed an hour 
or so ago when, after Senator Graham had offered this legislation as an 
amendment, it was tabled. Our colleagues didn't want to have a vote on 
it. I would think that at least we could have a fair up-or-down vote on 
the legislation, particularly since it is the approach that has been 
recommended by Secretary Gates and the Defense Department. I believe it 
is the approach President Bush would prefer. I believe it would solve 
the problem we are trying to solve.

Everybody knows that next week, when the supplemental appropriations 
bill comes before us, the bill that will enable us to fund the troops 
missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Warner-Webb bill will be included 
as a part of that. We will not have an opportunity to try to amend it. 
That was the purpose of the Senator from South Carolina offering the 
amendment today. We have now been foreclosed from voting on that. That 
is not right, especially since this is the superior of the two 
approaches.

The key here has to do with the original intent of the GI bill and 
today's circumstances. After World War II, when most of the members of 
the Armed Forces had been drafted, came back from the Pacific and 
European theaters, many of them had been drafted right out of high 
school or perhaps they were not even in school. They, obviously, saw 
the importance of getting a college education. A grateful nation said: 
You have been plucked out of your family circumstance, maybe out of 
high school. You were not able to attend college, although some were in 
college when they were drafted. We want to pay something back to you 
and send you to college, if you would like to do that. That was the GI 
benefit.

Today the circumstances are much different. We don't have the draft 
anymore. We didn't have millions and millions of servicemen mustered 
out of the service, ready to go to college. Today we have exactly the 
opposite. We need to attract good men and women to serve in our forces, 
and we need to provide them the kind of benefits that are attractive to 
them in today's world. They are a very different, diverse group of 
people. The kind of educational benefit likewise needs to respond to 
that kind of diversity and circumstance. That is the reason this GI 
bill is being modernized and updated.

The key point Senator Graham will make and that Secretary Gates has 
made, as my colleague Senator McCain has said, is that instead of a 
group of people who have been mustered out of the service, we aren't 
trying to get people out of the service. Today we are trying to retain 
folks, good people who have been educated and trained in the military. 
We want to have as many of those men and women stay in the military as 
possible.

Clearly, recruitment and retention in an all-volunteer force is 
critical to an effective military. That is what Secretary Gates was 
speaking of when he said:




 Our first objective is to strengthen the all-volunteer 


 force. Accordingly, it is essential to permit transferability 


 of unused education benefits from servicemembers to family. 


 Transferability supports military families, thereby enhancing 


 retention.


That is the key difference between these two approaches. I would hope 
that my colleagues who originally wanted to support an approach that 
Senators Warner and Webb wrote would recognize that there has been an 
improvement to that in the legislation Senators Graham, Burr, and 
McCain have offered and would support that alternative which provides 
for transferability.

There are a couple of other differences. I wish to briefly highlight 
them. The fact that the Warner-Webb


bill costs more certainly should not be necessarily an argument against 
it, but it certainly should not be an argument for the legislation 
either. If we can deliver the same services in a more efficient way, 
that is good, not bad. As to that point, one of the other differences 
between the legislation of Senator Graham and the previously introduced 
bill is that this recognizes everyone in a fair way, providing the same 
benefit. It doesn't discriminate against people who attend a less-
expensive, State-sponsored school in favor of one who attends a more 
expensive private school, for example. You have the same kind of 
benefit. It is an adequate benefit because of the increases provided 
for in the bill.

The bottom line, the reason I strongly support the legislation 
introduced by my colleagues from South Carolina and from Arizona is 
because it responds to today's circumstances, the all-volunteer force, 
where we are trying to keep more people in the military as opposed to 
the other approach, which is an extension of the old GI bill which was 
provided for people who were leaving the military. That is the key 
difference and the reason why I urge my colleagues to support the 
approach Senator Graham is providing. I hope, even though we have had 
this legislation now tabled, that we will have an opportunity to 
actually vote on it in the future. I encourage my colleagues to support 
us in providing an opportunity to vote on the legislation.

I yield the floor.