# FOCUSING ON MOVING FORWARD
## `c45e96e3f295faac74a9c669f3836a22`
`Mr. DENT â€” 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. DENT. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Israel for helping organize this 
Special Order this evening, and I do want to commend you for what 
you've been doing to help try to change the tone of this institution. 
You're absolutely right when you talk about the level of noise, the 
partisan vitriol.

I think we all realize that many of our constituents come to us from 
time to time, and they see partisanship for the sake of partisanship. 
They don't always see the philosophical differences that may underlie 
those partisan debates. They get annoyed with it, and they see carping 
and whining. They hear Republicans criticizing Democrats over their 
policies, Democrats criticizing Republicans. And I think at times they 
would just like us to turn the temperature down, improve the tone and 
try to find solutions to the problems that face us, especially on 
issues of war and peace.

It was after the Second World War in the late 1940s and right up 
until the demise of the former Soviet Union, this Nation seemed to have 
a bipartisan policy to carry us through the cold war. It was called the 
policy of containment, and that doesn't mean that everybody in Congress 
felt universally that containment was a great policy, and they might 
have disagreed with certain aspects of that policy. But nevertheless, 
containment was the policy and it was able to survive from one 
administration to the next. Whether that be a Democrat or Republican 
administration, the policy survived, and each administration may have 
had a different spin on it and tweaked that policy, but it was the 
policy of this country.

And I think that our enemies understood that. We all understood that 
there was a Soviet threat, and we as Americans came together during 
that Cold War and eventually were successful. We outlasted the Soviet 
Union, and here we are in Iraq.

I think the American people have reached a point where they'd like us 
to develop that same kind of bipartisan consensus as we deal with the 
threats that face us today, the threats from violent extremists, people 
who are represented by al Qaeda we know who want to do great damage to 
us, who have made statements to the effect that they want to kill 4 
million Americans, 2 million children.

So the American people expect us to work together, and Iraq certainly 
is part of this whole debate because, of course, al Qaeda has a 
significant presence in that country. And I do want to thank you once 
again for helping to facilitate this dialogue. Because of your efforts 
and many others, we were able to talk about the Iraq Study Group and 
the recommendations presented there.

Also, we may hear from some of our other colleagues later tonight, 
people like Congressmen Tanner and Castle, Tanner a Democrat from 
Tennessee and Castle a Republican from Delaware, who have talked at 
great length about the need for a bipartisan compact on Iraq. And they 
really set forth several principles that they thought that we could all 
agree to as we move forward.

And one of those first principles they talked about was that we could 
agree in Congress that we need to end the political infighting over the 
conflict in Iraq and commit immediately to a truly bipartisan dialogue 
on these issues that we're facing, and that was I think really their 
first main point. And many of us have signed on to that compact, an 
even number of Republicans and Democrats, and I think that's very 
important.



And we came to an agreement on many of those issues, and I won't 
elaborate them all right now because I think some others may want to 
talk about them, but I think it is absolutely critical. Those points of 
interest of policy in this bipartisan compact on Iraq are entirely 
consistent, in my view, with the recommendations of the Iraq Study 
Group, another very significant initiative headed by former Secretary 
of State James Baker and former distinguished Congressman Lee Hamilton 
that talked about a lot of things I think many of us agree on.

For example, we all agree that there shouldn't be permanent bases in 
Iraq, and you came up with the idea of a status of forces agreement in 
lieu of permanent bases, just a status of forces agreement just like 
our Nation has with other countries where we have a military presence, 
whether that be in Germany or Korea, like we had in the Philippines at 
one time, where our country enters into agreements with those 
governments to really state the nature of our presence and what the 
presence would be. And it's also certainly important to the government 
that we'll be dealing with, whether it be in Iraq or elsewhere, to help 
give them legitimacy.

So that was an idea that you came up with, and again, I think it's an 
issue that we can all agree to on a very broad bipartisan basis.

There are other issues, too, but I won't belabor them all tonight, 
but I think something you said to me a few weeks ago I think is worth 
repeating, and it's this: That as our constituents from time to time 
watch C-SPAN and they hear the noise, they hear the rancor and they 
sometimes get a little frustrated and throw up their hands about what's 
happening in Congress, and I think you said it was one of your 
constituents who pointed out after the last time we did one of these 
bipartisan Special Orders, they said that we were making C-SPAN safe 
for children once again, and for that, I want to give you a lot of 
credit, but there's a lot of truth to that.

Hopefully, because of these types of activities that we are 
conducting here tonight, more people will be likely to turn on C-SPAN 
and listen to I hope what will be a very thoughtful and constructive 
dialogue on one of the preeminent issues that's facing this country.

