---
---

# HONORING PFC PATRICK J. MILLER
## `c46be91b44a74fb1bf4af021087d69ec`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, Patrick J. Miller of New Port Richey, 
Florida, was killed in Iraq over the weekend defending the freedom and 
liberties of those unable to defend themselves.



Private First Class Miller, also known as P.J., was assigned to the 
1st Infantry Division, stationed in Fort Riley, Kansas. He was deployed 
in Iraq since September 2007 and was fatally wounded when his unit came 
up against an IED attack and small arms fire during combat operations 
in Baghdad.

Although I did not have the privilege of knowing this courageous 
young man, by all accounts he was someone who lived every day with the 
same honor and integrity that he brought to the service of his country.

Prior to joining the Army, P.J. graduated from Mitchell High School 
in New Port Richey. While there, he excelled both in academics and 
athletics. These traits would serve him well later in life in both 
college and as a soldier in the U.S. Army. P.J. eventually earned his 
bachelor's degree in biology from the University of South Florida and 
aspired to one day further his education in graduate school.

Private First Class Miller's life was one of courage, perseverance 
and determination. He gave the ultimate sacrifice to protect us and the 
country he loved. This is a debt that can never be repaid to his family 
and loved ones.

Madam Speaker, I am saddened by the loss of P.J. and grieve for his 
family. May God bless them and comfort them in this time of great loss. 
May God also bless this great country for which Private First Class 
Miller so nobly fought and died. We shall never forget him.
