---
---

# SERGEANT JAMIE O. MAUGANS POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `c473cd0610ae0cd1a6dc55d6d3353c37`
`Mr. TIAHRT — 12 February 2008`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Mr. Speaker, first I want to thank the gentleman from 
North Carolina for carrying this bill and also the gentleman from 
Connecticut for yielding to me and for the great job he's doing here in 
the House of Representatives.

Mr. Speaker, I am also honored to have to carry this bill. And, 
today, Congress has the honor to approve the bill, naming the post 
office in Derby, Kansas, after a true American hero, SGT Jamie O'Dell 
Maugans.

Sergeant Maugans was the first casualty of the global war on terror 
from the 4th District of Kansas, a district that has experienced 12 
casualties in this war. A Derby native, Sergeant Maugans graduated from 
Derby High School and attended Cowley County Community College and the 
University of Kansas before joining the Army.

When the terrorists attacked our Nation on September 11, 2001, Jamie 
was serving as an ordnance disposal specialist stationed in San Diego, 
California. Shortly after those attacks, he was deployed in Afghanistan 
in connection with Operation Enduring Freedom. On April 15, 2002, while 
disposing of ordnance near Kandahar, Afghanistan, Sergeant Maugans was 
killed.

The explosion also took the lives of three other soldiers, including 
fellow Kansan, SSG Justin Galewski from Olathe. Jamie was only 27 years 
old.

Sergeant Maugans left behind a loving family and friends in Kansas. I 
know his mother, Kathy Wurdeman, and his father, Bryce Maugans, his 
step-mother, Mary Maugans, and his brother and four sisters are very 
proud of Jamie and his service to this country. I am honored to have 
worked with the Maugans family and the Derby community on this effort.

Although this bill names the Derby Post Office building after 
Sergeant Maugans, this endeavor is not only a way to honor Jamie, but a 
way to honor all those from Kansas who have died in defense of this 
Nation from radical Muslims.

As the first casualty from my district, Jamie's life and memory are a 
representation of all those who have lost their lives in the global war 
on terror. I hope this effort will be a reminder to everyone in south 
central Kansas of the sacrifice that so many veterans have made for our 
country and our freedoms.

Let me take just a few moments to read the names of all those from 
the 4th District of Kansas who have died in Iraq and Afghanistan so 
that their sacrifice is honored:

SGT Jerry W. Mills, Jr., from Arkansas City, Kansas, died on November 
29, 2005.

SGT Evan S. Parker, also from Arkansas City, died on October 26, 
2005.

SGT Alexander J. Funcheon from Bel Aire died on April 29, 2007.

PFC Class Ryan R. Cox from Derby died on June 15, 2001.

SPC Joseph F. Herndon II, also from Derby, died on July 29, 2004.

SPC Dustin K. McGaugh from Derby died on September 30, 2001.

SGT Willsun Mock from Harper died on October 22, 2006.

SPC Eric C. Palmer from Maize died on June 24, 2007.

SSG David R. Berry from Wichita died on February 22, 2007.

PFC Chad E. Marsh from Wichita died on February 17, 2007.

And 1SG Timmy J. Millsap from Wichita died on April 25, 2005.

In addition, at this time I will submit a statement for the Record 
and include all the names of Kansans who have died in the global war on 
terror.

Mr. Speaker, below are the names of the fallen heroes from Kansas who 
have died in the global war on terror. These brave men paid the 
ultimate sacrifice in service to a grateful Nation. Although we are 
naming the post office after one of their comrades, I hope this effort 
honors all those who have died in defense of America.




 Staff Sergeant Clinton Lee Wisdom from Atchison died on 


 November 8, 2004.



 2nd Lieutenant James Michael Goins from Bonner Springs died 


 on August 15, 2004.



 Lance Corporal Brian A. Escalante from Dodge City died on 


 February 17, 2007.



 Private 1st Class Shane R. Austin from Edgerton died on 


 October 8, 2006.



 Staff Sergeant Dustin W. Peters from El Dorado died on June 


 11, 2004.



 Corporal Juan C. Cabralbanuelos from Emporia died on 


 January 31, 2004.



 Sergeant Christopher R. Kruse from Emporia died on November 


 13, 2007.



 Specialist David J. Lane from Emporia died on September 4, 


 2007.



 Sergeant 1st Class Travis S. Bachman from Garden City died 


 on August 1, 2007.



 Specialist Clinton R. Upchurch from Garden City died on 


 January 7, 2007.



 Corporal Richard A. Bennett from Girard died on May 27, 


 2006.



 Sergeant William W. Crow Jr. from Grandview Plaza died on 


 June 28, 2007.



 Sergeant Jessie Davila from Greensburg died on February 20, 


 2006.



 Specialist John Edward Wood from Humboldt died on October 


 7, 2006.





 Sergeant Christopher S. Perez from Hutchinson died on May 


 23, 2005.



 Sergeant Courtney D. Finch from Leavenworth died on July 


 24, 2007.



 Corporal David M. Unger from Leavenworth died on October 


 17, 2006.



 Lance Corporal Jose S. Marin-Dominguez Jr. from Liberal 


 died on May 14, 2006.



 Staff Sergeant Henry W. Linck from Manhattan died on 


 December 7, 2006.



 Lance Corporal Christopher B. Wasser from Ottawa died on 


 April 8, 2004.



 Staff Sergeant Kevin L. Zeigler from Overland Park died on 


 August 12, 2006.



 Private 1st Class Peter D. Wagler from Partridge died on 


 January 23, 2006.



 Specialist Joseph L. Lister from Pleasanton died on 


 November 20, 2003.



 Sergeant Ian C. Anderson from Prairie Village died on 


 January 15, 2007.



 Corporal Michael Raymond Speer from Redfield died on April 


 9, 2004.



 Private Dustin L. Kreider from Riverton died on March 21, 


 2004.



 Specialist Lucas A. Frantz from Tonganoxie died on October 


 18, 2005.



 Private Jeremy L. Drexler from Topeka died on May 2, 2004.



 Specialist Kyle G. Thomas from Topeka died on September 25, 


 2003.



 Specialist Don Allen Clary from Troy died on November 8, 


 2004.



 Sergeant Jacob Lee Butler from Wellsville died on April 1, 


 2003.



 Specialist Michael D. Brown from Williamsburg died on 


 October 16, 2007.



 Sergeant Benjamin C. Morton from Wright died on May 22, 


 2005.



 Staff Sergeant Justin J. Galewski from Olathe died on April 


 15, 2002.



 Sergeant Michael C. Barry from Overland Park died on 


 February 1, 2003.



 Specialist David E. Hall from Union Town died on February 


 25, 2004.



 Corporal Jeremiah S. Cole from Hiawatha died on August 16, 


 2006.



 Sergeant 1st Class Bernard Lee Deghand from Mayetta died on 


 September 15, 2006.



 Sergeant Charles J. McClain from Fort Riley died on October 


 31, 2006.



 Sergeant Jeffery S. Mersman from Parker died on November 9, 


 2007.



 Sergeant Jerry W. Mills, Jr., from Arkansas City died on 


 November 29, 2005.



 Sergeant Evan S. Parker from Arkansas City died on October 


 26, 2005.



 Sergeant Alexander J. Funcheon from Bel Aire died on April 


 29, 2007.



 Private 1st Class Ryan R. Cox from Derby died on June 15, 


 2003.



 Specialist Joseph F. Herndon II from Derby died on July 29, 


 2004.



 Specialist Dustin K. McGaugh from Derby died on September 


 30, 2003.



 Sergeant Willsun Mock from Harper died on October 22, 2006.



 Specialist Eric C. Palmer from Maize died on June 24, 2007.



 Staff Sergeant David R. Berry from Wichita died on February 


 22, 2007.



 Private 1st Class Chad E. Marsh from Wichita died on 


 February 17, 2007.



 1st Sergeant Timmy J. Millsap from Wichita died on April 


 25, 2005.


Mr. Speaker, by naming this post office building the Jamie O. Maugans 
Post Office, I hope that everyone in south central Kansas will come to 
know and remember this young man and his sacrifice. Furthermore, I hope 
that we can all recommit ourselves to honor those who have fallen in 
battle in defense of this Nation. I ask my colleagues to support this 
important effort.