---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `c47aa5fa988ea434276f8d029c209de5`
`Ms. EDWARDS of Maryland — 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. EDWARDS of Maryland. I thank the gentleman from Ohio for bringing 
this resolution.

I think it is high time that we actually had this debate here in 
Congress. While it may seem untimely, there is never enough time to 
have a debate about war and peace that this Congress should be engaged 
in, and not just the actions of any President.

I want to also join with my colleagues in expressing my support for 
the men and women who serve this Nation. And as a daughter of one who 
served through Korea and Vietnam and subsequently, you couldn't find a 
stronger supporter of our servicemen and women. So I would hope that on 
both sides of the aisle that we don't confuse our debate about policy 
and about a resolution with support for our men and women in uniform. 
Because that would be unfortunate for them and it would be 
disrespectful of us.

I believe that this Congress has an obligation to send a strong 
message to the White House that the war must come to an end. And as 
others have pointed out, we began this war effort to fight al Qaeda 
following the tragedy of September 2001. But as National Security 
Adviser Jim Jones has told us, there are only 100 al Qaeda left in 
Afghanistan. Who are we fighting? Well, now we are fighting the 
Taliban. And that just shows you that over the course of this time, 
this war and its mission and its goals have morphed and morphed and 
morphed to the point that we find ourselves in now.

I have no doubt that our well-trained and brave and dedicated Armed 
Forces will continue to be victorious on the field of battle. I am 
humbled by their service. But bringing stability to Afghanistan can 
only happen by rebuilding a truly functioning civil society--forget 
that, building a truly functional civil society, something that 
Afghanistan has not had the privilege to enjoy. This won't come by 
military force.

The question remains really as to the future capacity of 
Afghanistan's military and government to do what is required of them to 
build their country. We really have little evidence, if any, that this 
outcome is likely given the levels of corruption in the existing Karzai 
government that continue as well as the intertribal violence that also 
changes over time.

I am struck, there was a Time magazine article just this past week on 
the Taliban, on the fighting in Marja, and the limited success, the 
success that our NATO forces are having. But as was pointed out there, 
the take and hold and build strategy only happens if you really can 
transfer. And it is the transfer that I am concerned about. It is the 
transfer that actually endangers our troops to the point where they may 
transfer at one point and then have to go back and start the fight over 
again because that is the nature of the battle in Afghanistan.

Even more troubling is that Afghanistan shouldn't be our top national 
security priority.