# IMMIGRANT SOLDIERS
## `c47be3ab65d40f4c8031d778dd0cb9d2`
`Ms. SOLIS â€” 5 June 2007`

---


Ms. SOLIS. Mr. Speaker, tonight I stand here today to honor the 
contribution of immigrants that have been made to our Nation, 
particularly defending our Nation in support of comprehensive 
immigration reform.

We need effective legislation that strikes the right balance between 
national security and reforming our current immigration system. This 
should include a path to permanency for millions of law abiding and tax 
paying immigrants who call the United States their home.

It's my hope that the Senate finalizes debating their immigration 
reform bill, and that our Chamber continues to work to adopt 
legislation that will truly reform the system and enhance our Nation's 
security.

Immigrant families are an important part of our social fabric and our 
economy. Undocumented workers, you may not know, contribute as much as 
$7 billion a year in Social Security into our system and $1.5 billion 
in Medicare every year, yet do not collect those benefits.

Immigrants, you may know, play an important role in defending our 
Nation. In all of our wars throughout our history, immigrants have 
fought side by side and have given their lives to defending America's 
freedoms and ideals.

Twenty percent of the recipients of the Congressional Medal of Honor, 
the highest honor that our Nation bestows on our war heroes, has been 
granted to sons and daughters of immigrants. Their bravery is proof 
that immigrants are as willing as any other Americans to defend our 
country's freedom, and their service is no less important and valuable 
because of their immigrant status.

For example, as of May 2006, 33,449 noncitizens served in our Armed 
Forces, and more than 26,000 servicemembers have become U.S. citizens 
since the Iraq war began, and 75 servicemembers received posthumous 
citizenship.

Immigrants make up 5 percent of all enlisted personnel on active duty 
in the U.S. Armed Forces, and immigrants continue to demonstrate that 
they are a part of this country through their service in the military.

Without the contribution of immigrants the military, as we know it 
today, could not meet its own recruiting goals. Without the assistance 
of immigrants, the military could not fill the need for foreign 
language translators, interpreters and cultural experts.

Immigrants provide unique incredibly valuable contributions to the 
military, and it's critical that we continue to recognize and 
appreciate their efforts and that of their families.

In the district I represent in California, we've unfortunately 
suffered several casualties, including that of immigrant servicemembers 
who gave their lives for our country. One is the fallen Marine Lance 
Corporal Francisco Martinez Flores who died while serving overseas in 
Iraq. At the age of 21, and only 2 weeks away from gaining U.S. 
citizenship, Francisco was killed in the line of duty. He was one of 
thousands of lawful permanent residents who have volunteered their 
service to protect the United States by joining the U.S. military.

On April 2003, Francisco was granted posthumous U.S. citizenship and 
Congress honored his memory by passing a bill that I authored to 
celebrate his life in the City of Duarte by naming a Post Office after 
him.

But in 2003, Sergeant Atanacio Haro-Marin, from the City of Baldwin 
Park, from my district from California also died in Iraq. He came under 
heavy enemy fire. This young man was born in Zacatecas, Mexico and 
moved to Los Angeles at 2 years of age. He'll be remembered as a proud 
and courageous soldier who was living out a long held dream of serving 
in the U.S. military and will be honored by having a Post Office named 
after him in the City of Baldwin Park.

The sacrifices that my constituents made inspired me to pursue 
legislation to help other legal permanent residents who risk their 
lives every day and die protecting our country's liberties and values, 
achieve the dream of becoming a citizen.

And in 2003, I introduced the Naturalization and Family Protection 
for Military Members Act. The bill, which was included in the 
Department of Defense Authorization Conference Report, was signed into 
law, and recognizes the enormous contributions of immigrants in the 
military by providing them with easier access to naturalization and 
immediate family immigration protections for those killed in action.

It is a tribute to them and their families and all veterans for the 
enormous sacrifices they've made so we and others around the world can 
live in freedom.

I'm proud today to tell you that I support our military men and 
women, and especially those that continue to serve us that are legal 
permanent residents. We need to see an immigration reform program come 
forward that is comprehensive, and salute soldiers such as this who 
have given their ultimate sacrifice for our country.
