---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `c4851196693e2942c1ac245cbd205dd8`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009. Having served on the House 
Armed Services Committee, I know that it handles some of the most 
complicated and contentious issues before Congress, but through a 
combination of hard work and a commitment to bipartisanship, it has 
been able to assemble a good bill that all Members should support. I 
would particularly like to thank Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member 
Hunter for their leadership and their efforts to enhance our national 
security.

The members of this body hold significantly different opinions about 
what our Nation's role should be in Iraq. Personally, having voted 
against the authorization of the use of force in Iraq, I believe that 
our current combat operations are doing significant and systemic damage 
to our military readiness and that we need a new strategy that 
emphasizes diplomatic and economic efforts and that allows us to bring 
our troops home. Despite our differences on Iraq policy, though, my 
colleagues and I stand in full support of the men and women in uniform 
who serve our Nation, as well as their families. This legislation 
recognizes their service by providing a pay raise of 3.9 percent--an 
increase of 0.5 percent over the President's budget request. It also 
rejects the President's ill-advised proposal to raise premiums and co-
pays for participants of TRICARE, the military health care system. 
Congress recognizes that other options exist to reduce the cost of 
health care and that we must not place an undue burden on our military 
families. To that end, H.R. 5658 establishes several new preventive 
health initiatives, which will keep people healthier and reduce future 
costs.

As co-chair of the House Submarine Caucus, I am particularly pleased 
that the bill before us makes a major investment in our national 
security by providing an additional $722 million for advanced 
procurement of a second VIRGINIA-class submarine in FY2010--one year 
ahead of schedule. Last year, Congress provided $588 million to 
expedite the VIRGINIA-class construction schedule to attain two 
submarines in FY2011, and this legislation moves the target date even 
sooner. Submarines are one of the most effective and flexible platforms 
in our military, but if we don't build more quickly, we will lose our 
strategic advantage over nations that are rapidly expanding their naval 
forces. Furthermore, this funding will help our submarine industrial 
base, which, without additional work, will face layoffs, and our Nation 
could lose their specialized skills and expertise. The men and women 
who work at Electric Boat in my district make the best submarines in 
the world, and I am pleased that this legislation will allow them to 
expand their contributions to our national security. I am deeply 
grateful to Chairman Ike Skelton and Seapower Subcommittee Chairman 
Gene Taylor--as well as my friend and neighbor Joe Courtney and my co-
chair on the Submarine Caucus Randy Forbes--for their commitment to our 
submarine force.

This Congress has shown a commitment to our Navy and recognizes the 
importance of shipbuilding. While I applaud many provisions in this 
bill that will help restore the size of our fleet, I have concerns 
about the decision to delay the purchase of the third Zumwalt-class 
destroyer (DDG-1000). Instead of funding the President's full request, 
the bill provides $400 million that may be used either to purchase 
long-lead materials for the thud DDG-1000 or to begin procurement of 
two Arleigh Burke-class destroyers (DDG-51). The DDG-1000 is the first 
installment in the Navy's Family of Ships line, which will develop new 
technology for later insertion in the next-generation cruiser and other 
surface ships. Delaying DDG-1000 will prevent the development of new 
technologies and weapons systems that are necessary to address current 
and future threats. Additionally, while purchasing additional DDG-51s 
will help us increase the size of our fleet, they cannot fulfill the 
mission requirements of the DDG-1000, which was specifically built to 
have greater capability and a smaller crew. As we move forward with 
this bill, I ask that the committee keep these concerns in mind.

I am very proud to support H.R. 5658, which provides our men and 
women in uniform with the resources, equipment and services they need 
to continue their excellent service to the Nation. I urge all of my 
colleagues to support this measure.