# None
## `c496e6056f5bac7aa78072d791b7bf3c`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. What we're trying to say is we don't want to be in 
the same position 20 years from now or 10 years from now that we're in 
today, so that means that we need to make some long-term decisions. 
It's easy to come down to the floor: Drill, drill, drill. Drilling will 
not solve this problem.

If you look at what President Bush's policies have been, if you look 
at what the Republican Congress' policies have been--drill, increase by 
66 percent--gas still goes up through the roof. The war in Iraq has 
totally destabilized the region that has more oil than anywhere else, 
and it has totally helped to drive up costs.

What we're trying to do is to have these mature discussions, not 
drill and veto, drill and veto, drill and veto. Let's stop the 
manipulation of the commodities market. Let's stop the manipulation of 
the futures and everything else where it's just continuing to drive up 
the cost of gasoline for average people. That is basically what is 
going on.

I think Ms. Wasserman Schultz made a great point. There are 68 
million acres of land, Federal land, that the oil companies could tap 
into if they wanted. They have not. As for the refining capacity in the 
United States, everyone says, ''Build more refineries. Build more 
refineries.'' The refineries we have now are only working at 85 
percent. So there are a lot of smoke and mirrors coming from the other 
side.

What we are trying to say is we need long-term, responsible policies 
that are going to stop providing corporate welfare for the oil 
companies, and we need to invest that money into long-term biodiesel, 
nuclear, wind, solar, and all of these other issues.

With that, I'd like to yield to our good friend from Pennsylvania.