---
---

# WAR ON TERROR
## `c49acfca8b824149dd002760ec119975`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN — 9 January 2007`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. Speaker, I do want to speak for just a moment 
about the war on terror and our efforts in Iraq. It is clear that we 
have come to a very important time in this effort. The President is 
going to speak about his strategy tomorrow night.

You know, I have been asked many times over the last few weeks, and 
certainly on Sunday when I was at Fort Campbell, if I would support a 
surge in the troops. I think that we have to remember that it is 
important that we listen to the men and women and the commanders in the 
field as we have this discussion.

We have to look at the situation: what does it take to defuse it, to 
stand up the Iraqis and make it easier to relinquish control to the 
Iraqis for their country.

It is exactly this sort of opportunity and these situations that 
really animate the work and the leadership of Lieutenant General David 
Petraeus, the American commander who has been there for a year with the 
101st, who was back for a year training the Iraqi troops in Baghdad, 
and now will return again. He has been called the military's warrior 
scholar and has drawn deeply on his dual background to create a 
leadership style that is respectful of military tradition and is 
innovative. We support General Petraeus.

We look forward to his work there and his leadership style as we work 
to continue to defeat the terrorists and win the war on terror.
