# None
## `c49d292a612f76353d1f55761befbeaf`
`Mr. DREIER — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. DREIER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might 
consume.

I want to begin by expressing my great appreciation to the very able 
and distinguished Chair of the Committee on Rules, my dear friend from 
Rochester (Ms. Slaughter) for yielding me the customary 30 minutes.

And I will say, Madam Speaker, that I stand here with somewhat mixed 
emotions. While I am happy that we are going to finally ensure that our 
men and women in uniform who are on the front lines ensuring the safety 
of our fellow Americans are going to have the funding that is 
necessary, I'm saddened that we are here at this juncture considering 
this measure under a process which was not at all necessary.

Madam Speaker, if we had, literally months ago, months ago, come to 
this point, we could have, under regular order, very easily provided 
the necessary troop funding that is out there, dealt with the issue of 
unemployment benefits, which is going to be addressed, and ensure that 
we're not going to put into place a massive tax increase on job 
creators here in the United States.



So I will say, Madam Speaker, that we want to do everything that we 
can to, as expeditiously as possible, meet the demand that has been set 
forward by our leaders on the frontline in the field in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

I hope very much that my colleagues will join with me. It's not 
normal that I would support this structure that would allow for same-
day consideration of the measure, but I believe it is imperative that 
we get funding to our troops, and I believe that the measure that we're 
going to consider in just a little while from now will allow us to do 
that.

With that, I yield back the balance of my time.