---
---

# NATIONAL BOMBING PREVENTION ACT OF 2009
## `c4a463e9b5eb9d73e004ebf50b379d4b`
`Mr. KING of New York — 3 February 2009`

---


Mr. KING of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 549, the 
National Bombing Prevention Act of 2009, and am pleased that the House 
has moved quickly early in the 111th Congress to act on this important 
legislation. On January 15, 2009, I introduced H.R. 549, which 
authorizes the Office of Bombing Prevention within the Department of 
Homeland Security. In the previous Congress, the full House passed 
similar legislation by bipartisan voice vote on June 18, 2008.

The Office of Bombing Prevention will provide much needed analysis 
and coordination of our Nation's bomb-prevention capacity. This will 
inform State and local governments on how to best protect our citizens 
from the threat posed by improvised explosive devices (IEDs). The 
terrorist attacks in Iraq and Afghanistan; the attacks in London in 
2007 and 2005; the Madrid bombings in 2004; and the countless other 
bombing attacks around the world serve as reminders that terrorist 
organizations utilize IEDs to target civilians and military personnel.

Within the United States, we have been subject to our own share of 
explosive attacks, including the 1993 World Trade Center bombings; the 
1995 Oklahoma City bombing; the Centennial Olympic Park bombing; and 
others. State and local bomb squads across the country have formed and 
trained to respond to these types of threats. But at the national 
level, there is no analysis of our nationwide capability to respond to 
explosive threats, or to identify where gaps exist in training, 
equipment, and personnel against a national baseline. The Office 
authorized by this bill gives us that ability.

This analysis will also assist State and local officials in applying 
for homeland security grants to fill these gaps. Further, the bill 
requires the Office to continue to share information with State and 
local officials and promote IED security awareness. This information is 
distributed through a secure website, known as ''TRIPwire,'' which 
provides to appropriate law enforcement officials access to current IED 
tactics, techniques and procedures--updated in light of new events and 
as terrorists change their methods. ''TRIPwire'' includes analysis and 
reports by experts making it a ''one-stop shop'' for actionable 
information.

Information sharing with law enforcement is only one part of 
preventing an IED attack within the United States. Another key 
component of the Office of Bombing Prevention authorized in this bill 
is the establishment of an awareness program for the public regarding 
the threat of IEDs. This program will educate merchants, for example, 
on types of materials that are explosive pre-cursors, so that sellers 
can watch for, and recognize, suspicious purchases.

Recognizing that our military has developed invaluable expertise in 
recognizing and countering IEDs, this legislation instructs the 
Secretary of Homeland Security to work closely with the Department of 
Defense to leverage lessons learned by our troops in combat. Adapting 
appropriate tactics and technology from overseas will improve the 
capability of our first responders here at home.

The Office of Bombing Prevention has been in existence at the 
Department of Homeland Security since 2005, but has not yet been 
authorized by statute. The continued need for the Office of Bombing 
Prevention is clear. While there are many Federal agencies that bring 
expertise and roles to countering an explosive threat, this Office 
provides a unique role to assist and assess State, local, and tribal 
capability.

By supporting H.R. 549, we take another step in upholding our 
responsibility to protect the lives and livelihood of American 
citizens. I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill.