---
---

# None
## `c4c037b0e945e0ed6020e366bdb61b38`
`Mr. TIAHRT — 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Another thing Congress must consider in this whole 
scenario is, looking back over history and saying, when we do have a 
difference of opinion between our European allies and our own country 
and we employ our young men and women to carry out the will of this 
country, will our foreign suppliers be there to supply us in our time 
of need?

During the Gulf War, we had allies that disagreed with what we were 
doing and they failed to supply the parts that we needed to keep our 
young men and women safe while they carried out the will of this Nation 
so they could come home safely to their families. During Operation 
Iraqi Freedom, again, our European allies failed to support us when, in 
our time of need and through great diplomatic strains and a lot of 
harsh words, finally we were able to find suppliers that were going to 
give us the parts that we needed so that our young men and women could 
carry out the will of this country and come home safely to their 
families.

Once again, in this system, it is a single point of failure system. 
It is a system that, if it is down, everything does not function. We 
cannot transport aircraft from the East Coast to the West Coast for our 
military without tankers. We cannot supply our troops or carry our 
troops anywhere outside the continental United States without aerial 
refueling tankers. If we are going to respond to a natural disaster 
like the tsunami in southeast Asia, we have to have air refueling 
tankers. So, we cannot have such a critical item that is so vulnerable 
to our foreign suppliers when they may disagree with us politically and 
withhold the parts we need to have this very critical, single point of 
failure weapons system.

So if you look at our ability to protect our families, like my chart 
has here, it is an immeasurable cost. What is the dollar value when we 
have to protect our families and our military doesn't have the supplies 
they need to carry out that task? What about the loss of defense 
workers? That is another immeasurable cost. Once we lose part of our 
national defense industry base, it is gone apparently forever.

For example, if this contract goes through, never again in America 
will we rebuild an air refueling tanker. I can give you the technical 
reasons why, but basically aircraft are built on an improvement curve. 
And the thought of an improvement curve is a theory, which is reality, 
is that the second unit costs less time to build than the first unit; 
the fourth unit costs less time than the second unit; and the eighth 
unit costs less time than the fourth unit, and on down. Every time it 
doubles, there is less time to build that next aircraft. After you 
build 179 aircraft, like in this air refueling tanker contract, you are 
bidding for the follow-on procurement at unit 180. In other words, you 
are 180 units down the improvement curve. It is a lot cheaper than if 
you are building the first unit. An American manufacturer bidding on 
the follow-on contract would have to bid a number one unit. They cannot 
keep up, once again, with our foreign suppliers because they are 
bidding a number one unit and our foreign would be bidding the 180th 
unit. So we never again will build air refueling tankers here in 
America if this contract goes forward.

And what does that do? It is a loss to defense workers; it 
compromises our ability to protect our families; and, it is a loss of 
defense manufacturing capability. Those are things that are 
immeasurable in cost, but it is something that Congress must consider 
when we vote on whether this contract should go forward or not.