---
---

# AWARDING A CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO THE WOMEN AIRFORCE SERVICE  PILOTS
## `c4da24714aee712c68635cd3e34a6527`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 16 June 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to yield myself such time 
as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, as the House sponsor of this legislation, I rise in 
strong support of Senate bill 614, a bill to award the Congressional 
Gold Medal to the Women Airforce Service Pilots of World War II, WASP. 
And here is a picture, Mr. Speaker, of the WASP, one of the many 
pictures, but as the previous speaker pointed out, not enough 
recognition was paid to them.

Special thanks for this bill go to Financial Service Chairman Barney 
Frank and Ranking Member Spencer Bachus and their staff as well for 
their assistance in bringing this legislation to the floor today.

I would also like to thank my staff, Mr. Speaker, particularly 
Captain Deanna Nieves, right behind me, United States Marine Corps, 
who's serving as a defense fellow in my office for the remainder of the 
year. Her efforts were instrumental in achieving the required number of 
cosponsors for this bill in record time. And Sarah Gamino, sitting next 
to her, worked so hard on all of our office projects. Thanks to all of 
the great staff work on this bill.

Mr. Speaker, as has been pointed out, the bill before us today honors 
a special sisterhood of women, most of them in their 80s, who share a 
unique place in American history. These women have been mothers and 
grandmothers, teachers and office workers, nurses, business owners, 
photographers, and dancers. One was even a nun. But before that they 
were pilots for the United States Army Corps during World War II. They 
are heroines.

Women Airforce Service Pilots, or WASP, were the first women in 
history to fly America's military aircraft. Between the years of 1942 
and 1944, these courageous women volunteered to fly noncombat missions 
so that every available male pilot could be deployed into combat. More 
than 25,000 women applied for the program, but only 1,830 qualified 
women pilots were accepted. Unlike their male counterparts, women 
applicants were required to be qualified pilots before they could even 
apply for the Army Air Force military flight training program. 
Altogether, 1,102 women earned their wings and went on to fly over 60 
million miles for the Army Air Forces, equal to some 2,500 times around 
the globe. Their performance was equal in every way to that of male 
pilots. With the exception of direct combat missions, the WASP flew the 
same aircraft and the same missions as male pilots.

Women pilots were used to tow targets for male pilots who were using 
live ammunition, for searchlight missions, chemical missions, 
engineering test flying, and countless other exercises.

In 1944 the WASP were disbanded, their service records sealed and 
classified. By the time the war ended, Mr. Speaker, 38 women pilots had 
lost their lives while flying for our country. Their families were not 
allowed to have an American flag placed on their coffins. And although 
they took the military oath and were promised military status, the WASP 
never were recognized as military personnel nor were


they ever recognized as veterans at the war's end.

In 1977, more than 30 years after the WASP had served, another woman 
pioneer, Congresswoman Lindy Boggs, introduced legislation to grant the 
WASP veterans status. Speaking of the day when women would be fully 
integrated into the military, WASP Byrd Howell Granger noted: ''If the 
Nation ever again needs them, American women will respond. Never again 
will they have to prove they can do any flying job the military has. 
Not as an experiment. Not to fill in for men. They will fly as 
commissioned officers in the future Air Force of the United States with 
equal pay, hospitalization, insurance, veterans' benefits. The WASP 
have earned it for these women of the future.''

And the WASP were indeed and continue to be true pioneers whose 
example paved the way for the Armed Forces to lift the ban on women 
attending military flight training in the 1970s. Today women in the 
military fly every type of aircraft, from the F-15 to the space 
shuttle.

My daughter-in-law, Lindsay Nelson, a Marine Corps pilot, is part of 
the lasting legacy of WASP. Lindsay, a graduate of the United States 
Naval Academy, served two combat tours in Iraq and Afghanistan, where 
she flew the F/A-18 fighter jet. I'm so proud of Lindsay and of all our 
servicewomen, past and present, who continue to inspire young women to 
achieve the unfathomable.

By definition, the Congressional Gold Medal is the highest expression 
of Congress of national appreciation for the most heroic, courageous, 
and outstanding individuals.



Given the overwhelming support for this legislation, as evidenced by 
the bipartisan support of 334 cosponsors in the House companion 
legislation, I am confident that Members of this Chamber deem the WASP 
as deserving of this honor. Of the 1,102 WASP, more than 300 are still 
alive today and are residing in almost every State of our country. Join 
me in paying homage to these trailblazers and these patriots who served 
our country without question and with no expectation of recognition or 
praise.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting yes on this 
bill, to award the WASP the Congressional Gold Medal, and request its 
prompt signing into law.

For history's sake, I will submit for printing in the Congressional 
Record the names of the 1,102 WASP.

I reserve the balance of my time.