# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `c4f5956453f46edaa50431ca1c723e27`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I strongly oppose this amendment 
for one fundamental reason, it would do harm to America's service men 
and women and our military families during a time of war.

I would not, at any time, question the motives of the gentleman from 
Arizona. He is a person of integrity, he has been consistent in his 
principled position on the issue of earmarks, but the best of 
intentions can't stop the worst of results. And the worst of the worst 
would be to undermine our military readiness and the quality of life 
for our troops and their families at any time, but especially so during 
a time of war.

Let me list some of the harm that would be done. And this isn't a 
full list, but just some:

Nine quality of life facilities, such as chapels and community 
centers in our military bases, bases from which forces are being 
deployed for the second and third time to Iraq and Afghanistan, those 
would be eliminated.

Fifteen Guard and Reserve training facilities would be eliminated.

Seven active duty training facilities would be eliminated. These are 
facilities that, on a bipartisan basis, after careful thought, this 
subcommittee worked with the Department of Defense to say that, you 
know what, we have been dishonoring our 18- and 19-year-old military 
recruits. Because when they come in, instead of thanking them, we put 
them in barracks that we would be ashamed to have our sons and 
daughters living in. This amendment would stop those new barracks from 
being built.

Seven fire stations would be eliminated. Isn't it enough that our men 
and women have to be in harm's way in Iraq and Afghanistan? Must they 
and their families also be put in greater harm's way back at home 
because we can't build fire stations that are desperately needed?

And I know something about this because at one time I represented the 
largest Army installation in the world, Fort Hood, Texas. It has had 
one division continually in Iraq since this war began. And their base 
commander came to me and said, you know what, the bureaucratic process 
at the Pentagon and OMB killed our desperate need for a new fire 
station. I'm glad Congress, in that case, exercised its constitutional 
authority to do what was right to protect those great Americans and 
their families.

Let me give you some more specifics of what harm this amendment would 
do.

It would kill a new communications facility at a naval base for a 
security force unit that is in charge of safeguarding nuclear weapons.

It would kill funds to expand and upgrade a readiness center for a 
National Guard engineer battalion that has deployed soldiers to Iraq to 
disarm IEDs.

It would kill new housing for an Air and National Guard unit. The 
current


housing has mold, leaking roofs, poor ventilation, and numerous code 
violations.

I reject the notion outright that some unelected, unaccountable 
bureaucrat sitting in an office in the basement of the White House 
Budget Office has a monopoly on wisdom because they do not. And many 
times, even despite their good efforts, the fact is administration 
budgets, Mr. Chairman, are often started and put together a year or 
year and a half before we come to this floor. I think it would be wrong 
to deny us, this Congress, with our constitutional duty to fund 
appropriations bills, to say that we can't benefit from the judgment of 
time and changing needs during a time of war to provide for training 
facilities and quality of life facilities for our troops.

This is a bad amendment. But worse than that, it is an amendment that 
would do great harm to our service men and women, the quality of their 
housing, the quality of their training. And for that reason, I ask my 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle--in all due respect to the author 
of this amendment, who is a decent and honorable man who cares about 
our military and our armed forces--I ask Members on both sides of the 
aisle to soundly reject this ill-advised, dangerous amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.