---
---

# NATIONAL VETERANS HISTORY PROJECT WEEK
## `c50a4a1995ec216fb7011f86b7e43671`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 2 November 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I stand here today in support 
of H. Res. 866, which expresses support for designation of a National 
Veterans History Project Week to encourage public participation in a 
nationwide project that collects and preserves the stories of the men 
and women who served our nation in times of war and conflict. I support 
this resolution because the preservation of our country's history, as 
told by the men and women of the armed services, is a valuable piece of 
our nation's heritage and merits our wholehearted endorsement.

The Veterans History Project was established in 2000 by the Veteran's 
Oral History Project Act, which I was proud to support as a cosponsor. 
We knew then, as we know now, that the experience of our nation's 
veterans is a vital part of the history of military conflicts. The 
Congress unanimously supported the legislation, a testament to the 
necessity of this effort.

The American Folklife Center of the Library of Congress was charged 
by Congress to initiate and oversee the Veterans History Project. Its 
task is to engage the public to create a collection of oral histories, 
which would be available for scholars. The Veterans History Project is 
operated by volunteer interviewers, partner organizations, and an array 
of institutions' dedicated to the preservation of the United States' 
heritage. Interviews with American war veterans and the civilian 
workers who supported the veterans are conducted according to the 
guidelines provided by the Project. The Veterans History Project 
collects the memories and remembrances of veterans who served in World 
War I, World War II, the Cold War, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the 
Persian Gulf War, and the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts. So far, the 
Veterans History Project has collected over 66,000 oral histories, 
pictures, and diary entries from American men and women who served 
their country on the battlefield and at home. The stories are made 
available at the Library of Congress and on the Veterans History 
Project website for everyone to study and experience.


I would like to acknowledge that there are two official partner 
organizations assisting this project in my home state of Texas. The 
first is the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) located 
in Irving, Texas. The second is the LULAC-Daughters and Mothers 
Assisting Success Program located in Dallas, Texas. I am proud of the 
generosity of these organizations that are willing to donate their time 
to honor veterans and preserve veterans' history.

Veterans History Project Week highlights the need to collect and 
preserve the personal narratives of the men and women who have served 
the United States in times of war and conflict. The collection of 
personal experiences of U.S. service men and women will be a vital part 
of the historical record that will help future scholars understand the 
conflicts. There are over 23 million wartime veterans in America whose 
personal narratives can elucidate both the experience of armed conflict 
throughout time and the proceedings of the conflicts themselves.

This resolution is a timely reminder of the importance of acting 
quickly to preserve the experience of U.S. veterans. Approximately 40 
percent of veterans are 65 years old or over. Of the 2.6 million World 
War II veterans who were alive in 2008, we are losing nearly 900 on 
average each day. We must not let time irreversibly claim the memories 
that are our nation's heritage.

The Veterans History Project also serves as a tribute to the men and 
women who have fought our country's battles or supported the effort at 
home. Collecting and preserving the personal narratives of veterans for 
historical records demonstrates the importance of the individual 
experiences. The voices of veterans will be available to be heard by 
future students of history and their experience will remain alive.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution and the effort to preserve the memory of 
those who have served our country in times of war and conflict are an 
invaluable part of preserving our country's heritage.