---
---

# RETIREMENT OF BRIGADIER GENERAL ROBERT CREAR
## `c50ae827fb20098ad50e90298774c3ce`
`Mr. VITTER — 2 April 2008`

---

 Mr. VITTER. Mr. President, I wish to acknowledge the 
retirement of BG Robert Crear from his distinguished career in the Army 
Corps of Engineers. I would like to take some time to make a few 
remarks on his accomplishments and contributions to Louisiana and the 
United States.

In 1975 he graduated from Jackson State University, where he received 
a bachelor's degree in mathematics and a Regular Army commission as a 
second lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers. He holds a master's degree 
in national resource strategy from the Industrial College of the Armed 
Forces and has held various other command and staff positions in the 
United States and overseas, including Commander for the Corps' 
Southwest Division and Chief of Staff for the U.S. Corps' Headquarters 
here in Washington, DC. During Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi 
Freedom, General Crear served as commander, Task Force Restore Iraqi 
Oil, which safely and effectively helped to ensure the economic 
recovery of Iraq.

In June of 2004, General Crear assumed command of the Mississippi 
Valley Division. As MVD commander, he is responsible for a $1 billion 
civil works program. He also played a vital role in managing the Corps' 
water resources program in the Mississippi River Valley. As a member of 
the Environment and Public Works Committee, which has jurisdiction over 
the Mississippi River Commission, I helped approve General Crear's 
nomination as President and Commissioner of MRC. After the devastation 
of Hurricane Katrina, General Crear created Task Force Hope, a program 
dedicated to the restoration and rebuilding efforts in New Orleans and 
southeast Louisiana. It is among the largest disaster recovery 
operations in the history of the Corps of Engineers.

I am honored to have worked closely with General Crear. His devotion 
to the rebuilding and recovery efforts of the gulf coast region is a 
testament to his leadership and commitment. Louisiana and the gulf 
coast are forever grateful for his dedication and tireless effort.

Again, I would like to congratulate him on his retirement and 
exemplary service to our state and the country. I hope he enjoys his 
well deserved retirement and wish him well in all his future 
endeavors.
