# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `c50a437ccd0cff52d9c832e47f167928`
`Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. I want to thank the gentlewoman for 
offering this amendment and for yielding me time.

This is an important amendment. The time has come to understand what 
is taking place in Afghanistan and the incredible price that our 
soldiers are paying in that country and the incredible price that the 
American taxpayer is paying to fund this war. We've got to understand 
that the ingredients for victory, as people identify it and discuss it 
and describe it, are simply not present in Afghanistan:

The idea that we would expand the franchise of an honest central 
government to the countryside so we could stabilize the countryside. 
There is no honest central government in Afghanistan. It's rife with 
corruption, including the President of the country and his family and 
his relatives and his warlords and his ministers, and that's got to 
stop;

The idea that we are going to get help from the neighbors. We're 
getting minimal help from the Pakistanis. We're getting no help of any 
consequence from the Russians or the Chinese or the Indians because 
they're all engaged in the same game. They are protecting their 
position while America bleeds, while America bleeds the blood of our 
soldiers, while our Treasury bleeds the dollars of our taxpayers, and 
that's been going on and on and on and on.

We know how these Taliban were created. We know who supported them. 
We know the double accounting they do. We know the protections that 
they run. We know the sanctuaries that they provide them. And yet our 
soldiers are required to go in and ferret it out over and over and over 
again. We're told that we are going to develop this nation, that if we 
bring development, we'll have peace in Pakistan.

One of the first requests from the generals 8 years ago, 9 years ago 
was to send small-scale agriculture. You know what the request is 9, 10 
years later? Send small-scale agriculture. Get us a police force that 
is honest. Get us troops that are honest, that will fight. None of that 
has been matched. But what has been matched is the death and the 
maiming and the injuries of our American soldiers. It is time to bring 
them home.