# None
## `c50d07c68aeece0a3bdcb9e16c72160f`
`Mr. GONZALEZ — 14 May 2007`

---


Mr. GONZALEZ. Mr. Speaker, I welcome this opportunity today to rise 
and speak on a subject that has been conspicuously absent from 
legislative debate over the issue of immigration reform. Over the 
length of this debate, the proponents of the enforcement-only approach, 
some of which you heard earlier this evening, have repeatedly referred 
to immigrants as dangerous to the American economy, as dangerous to our 
society and dangerous to our culture.

A number of my colleagues argue that immigrants take away jobs from 
American citizens and that immigration has a net effect of shrinking 
the middle class. They suspect immigrants generally of bringing crime, 
drugs, and even terrorism into our country. And they suggest that 
immigrants weaken our patriotic culture by failing to assimilate into 
American society.

Fear characterizes all of these sentiments and arguments. Fear of 
change, both economic and social change. Fear of new contributions to 
the fabric of American culture. Generally, a fear of the ''other.''

Fear can be a powerful and dangerous force. It can motivate hate. It 
can impede toleration and understanding. Fear can paralyze us with 
paranoia and blind us to reasoned and logical argument. Fear in the 
media and in the Halls of Congress have distorted the image of 
immigrants in this country.

Much as sensationalist TV programming can make us believe that our 
communities are more dangerous than they really are, sensationalist 
characterizations of the immigrant population based on anecdotal 
examples or predictions of worst-case scenarios can falsely lead us to 
negative, reactionary, and unfounded opinions about immigrants.

I can no longer tolerate the blanket generalizations used to cast our 
Nation's immigrant population in a universally negative and threatening 
light. They do not reflect reality. They misrepresent our national 
interest with respect to immigration. These arguments polarize the 
public and prevent reasoned and productive dialogue, and they promote a 
legislative climate that distracts us from our national interest in 
reforming our broken immigration policies.

We can all agree that we need comprehensive immigration reform, but 
we must also come to an understanding that demonizing immigrants will 
not get us there. Ostracizing immigrants in this country with venomous 
and inapt rhetoric will not move us toward the integration of newcomers 
into our economy, or the promotion of safe streets for our children to 
play in, or assimilation of the immigrant population into American 
society.

It can only delay the time when the immigrant population becomes a 
fully functional and participatory component of our American society. 
It can only set back the day when we can guarantee the security of our 
borders and documentation of all individuals that cross those borders.

Like my colleagues that emphasize tough border enforcement, I, too, 
believe in reform that provides security for our country and 
documentation for all the individuals that enter American territory. I 
think that we speak with a common voice regarding our homeland security 
goals. Our approaches to talking about the issues of immigration and 
the methods for solving the problem may differ, but we share common 
goals in promoting our national and economic security. Debate over 
approaches to immigration reform is a topic for responsible legislative 
discourse.

Today, my colleagues and I speak on a related topic about some of the 
immigrants that are the subjects of our larger debate over immigration. 
The immigrants we want to talk about are not threats to our national 
security, they are not threats to our economy, and they are not threats 
to our people. They, in fact, have demonstrated their solidarity with 
our Nation. Unquestionably, they wish to contribute to our security and 
to our economy. And the individuals we speak of cannot be considered 
separately as friend or foe to the American people, because they 
demonstrate daily that they are, in fact, Americans in their own right.

The individuals we rise to speak of today are the tens of thousands 
of brave men and women in the American Armed Forces that were not born 
in the United States. Like the courageous sons and daughters born and 
raised in my home State of Texas and throughout this country, these 
individuals have taken an oath to defend the United States of America 
with their very lives if necessary.

These immigrant soldiers may differ from their native-born brothers 
and sisters in terms of location of their birth and even in their 
citizenship status; however, on the battlefield, they are united by a 
common purpose.

Among the soldiers in the United States military, there is no 
distinction between those that are born in Texas, in the Philippines, 
or in Mexico. They all take an oath. They all assume the same risks. 
They all make the same sacrifice. All are worthy of honor and 
distinction, and we must thank them all equally for giving so 
generously that we, living in communities across this great Nation, may 
do so peacefully.

Mr. Speaker, it is my great privilege tonight and a true honor that 
the first member of the United States Armed Services that we are about 
to honor is Lance Corporal Jose Antonio Gutierrez, and this is the 
photo of Jose Antonio when he was a little boy, an orphan and I will be 
a little more specific in a minute, to the time he put on this uniform 
of the United States Marine.

He was the first member of the United States Armed Forces killed in 
Iraq. He was not a citizen of this country.

Marine Lance Corporal Jose Antonio Gutierrez, like most Guatemalans, 
was born into poverty. He was orphaned in 1983 at the age of 9 and 
taken in by Casa Alianza, or Covenant House, in Guatemala City. The 
causes and dates of his parents' deaths are unknown to us today.

For the next 10 years, Lance Corporal Gutierrez led a tragic and 
tumultuous life, bouncing from the orphanage to the street and back 
again. His adulthood, like his childhood, was characterized by 
hardship. He worked for a time in a maquila plant, a sweatshop, 
operating a sewing machine. Even as a single person, making ends meet 
at such a job was incredibly difficult for this young man.

In early 1997, Lance Corporal Gutierrez made a decision to travel to 
the United States to seek a better life. He arrived in California an 
undocumented immigrant. He attended North High School in Torrance, 
California.

In March 2002, Lance Corporal Gutierrez enlisted in the United States 
Marine Corps because he wanted to become a citizen of this great 
country. He was assigned to the 2nd Battalion of the Expeditionary 
Forces of the United States Marines 1st Division.

Lance Corporal Gutierrez was killed a year later, close to the city 
of Umm al Qasr in southern Iraq, on March 21, 2003. He was 28 years 
old.

This man's sacrifice, the first life laid down in the sands of Iraq 
on behalf of the United States, is testament to the belief of 
immigrants in the promise of America. It is a symbol of patriotism, of 
commitment to defending a dream that we all share.


In May of last year, according to the United States Citizenship and 
Immigration Service, nearly 69,000 foreign-born soldiers, 5 percent of 
the entire military, are on active duty. Five percent are foreign born.



Can it be said of these immigrants that they are a threat to our 
national security? Clearly, no. They ensure our national security.

Can it be said that these immigrants threaten American workers? 
Clearly, no. They ensure that American workers can go to their jobs in 
peace.

Can it be said of these immigrants that they threaten the safety of 
our communities with drugs or violence? Again, clearly, no. They are 
the pillars of their communities when home and defenders of their 
communities when abroad.

Why then have so many in this debate over immigration missed the 
contributions these brave individuals make to the peace, the 
prosperity, and the security of our country? Do examples of immigrants' 
courage and sacrifice occur as seldom as those acts of violence some 
use to characterize an entire immigrant population? Is their heroic 
service anecdotal in the larger discussion about the contributions of 
immigrants to our society?

Once again, I hardly believe so. One out of every 20 soldiers in the 
United States military was born outside the United States. Two members 
of an average platoon immigrated to this country and now serve us all 
honorably.

What more can we ask of these young people? Lance Corporal Gutierrez 
not only gave his life for his adopted country; he was the first to do 
so in this war.

What more can we ask of immigrant parents when they have already 
given up their brave sons and daughters for the defense of an adopted 
homeland?

Mr. Speaker, these immigrant soldiers are among the most prominent 
faces of immigration today, but they are not uncharacteristic of the 
larger immigrant population. They represent the honest work ethic, the 
ambition and the patriotism characteristic of immigrants of all 
national origins and across all eras.

They represent the frontier spirit that built our country and 
continues to bring the best the world has to offer here to our shores, 
to the United States, in pursuit of our common American Dream.

At this time I would like to recognize a dear friend, a colleague, 
the dean of the Texas delegation, Congressman Solomon Ortiz of Texas.