---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `c5146c9c4977f688fd4e2c0f2f6ccf8f`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. It is not paid for, and now we hear from the President's 
party: We can't afford $3.2 billion to make America safe at home, for 
our own police departments, our own FBI, our own Drug Enforcement 
Agency.

I think the Members who are pushing this motion to commit believe the 
Senate is suffering from attention deficit disorder; that we cannot 
think ahead, that the President will just in a few days ask us for $192 
billion to make Iraq safe. We know that is coming. They don't want to 
talk about that. Is it too much to ask for $3.2 billion to make America 
safe? Doesn't a stronger America begin at home? Doesn't it begin with 
our own Department of Justice? Doesn't it begin with our police 
departments?

I would say to my colleagues, we understand the choices here, and the 
right choices have been made by this committee on a bipartisan basis. 
They worked this bill through the committee, and they worked hard on 
it. Senator Mikulski and Senator Shelby brought it to the floor. 
Amendment after amendment they have gone through the process. Now, the 
Senate will make a decision: Are we going to toss all their work 
overboard, are we going to commit this bill back to the committee? I 
hope we don't. I hope we stand up for this country in which we live, 
this country we love that deserves the protection that this bill will 
give. Let's defeat this motion to commit.