---
---

# TRIBUTE TO BRENDAN O'CONNOR
## `c51623ede547b03b7547d1ae2534ffa5`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 19 November 2008`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, as we continue to debate national 
strategy and the way ahead in Iraq and Afghanistan, there is one thing 
that is not debatable, and that is the courage and valor of our troops. 
Today, I wish to honor one of those brave troops, MSgt Brendan 
O'Connor, a medic in the Special Forces of the U.S. Army.

Master Sergeant O'Connor distinguished himself by extraordinary 
heroism in action during a fierce battle in Kandahar Province, 
Afghanistan, when his small detachment engaged an estimated 200 Taliban 
fighters on June 24, 2006. For his heroism, Master Sergeant O'Connor, 
who held the rank of sergeant first class at the time of the battle, 
was honored with the Nation's second highest award for valor, the 
Distinguished Service Cross.

After awarding the Distinguished Service Cross to Brendan, ADM Eric 
Olson, the head of U.S. Special Operations Command, hailed the 
contributions of the Army's Special Forces and said, ''Master Sergeant 
Brendan O'Connor exemplifies the spirit of these warriors.''

Leading a quick reaction force during a mission against Taliban 
leaders, Master Sergeant O'Connor and his team found themselves 
outnumbered and surrounded by hundreds of Taliban fighters in one of 
the most hotly contested areas of Afghanistan. After calmly maneuvering 
his force through enemy Taliban positions, Master Sergeant O'Connor 
crawled over 150 yards alone through enemy machine-gun fire across an 
open field to rescue two wounded comrades. Rallying and motivating his 
severely outnumbered team throughout a day-long battle, he saved the 
lives of 21 soldiers and prevented his detachment's destruction while 
inflicting heavy casualties on the enemy.

The heroism of Brendan O'Connor and his team in Afghanistan received 
national media attention on the CBS News program ''60 Minutes,'' which 
aired a segment on April 20 of this year, ''Ambush in Afghanistan.''

Brendan O'Connor comes from a long and distinguished family history 
of military service to our Nation, with deep roots in the U.S. Army and 
at West Point. Brendan's father, LTC Mortimer O'Connor, who graduated 
from West Point in 1953, was killed in action in Vietnam in 1968 while 
leading men into battle as commander of the 1st Battalion, 2nd 
Infantry, in the famed ''Big Red One,'' the oldest continuously serving 
division in the U.S. Army.

A true ''warrior-poet'', Mort O'Connor was not only decorated several 
times for valor on the battlefield, but taught English at West Point 
and earned a graduate degree in English literature from the University 
of Pennsylvania. A remembrance of Mort O'Connor in a March 1978 West 
Point Alumni publication recalled his spirit on the athletic fields as 
a young cadet:




 When victorious he would exultantly claim to be descended 


 from ancient Irish warrior kings. And it may be true, for he 


 had in him a wild romanticism, a tragic lilt of heart, which 


 only the Irish have.





Brendan O'Connor's grandfather, and Mort O'Connor's father, was BG 
William ''Bill'' O'Connor, a graduate of West Point in 1924. Bill 
O'Connor served in Europe in World War II, including in the Battle of 
the Bulge.

And three of Brendan's great-uncles followed their brother Bill to 
West Point--Richard O'Connor in the Class of 1926, George Brendan 
O'Connor in the Class of 1936, and Roderic O'Connor in the Class of 
1941.

Today, the O'Connor family tradition of military service continues 
with the next generation. Attending his Distinguished Service Cross 
award ceremony on April 30th were two of Brendan's cousins, Brian 
O'Connor, who is now at the Air Force Academy, and Rory O'Connor, who 
is now at West Point.

We are grateful to families such as the O'Connors, who for 
generations have answered the Nation's call and worn the uniform with 
such courage and distinction. There is no finer example of this 
tradition than MSgt Brendan O'Connor and his heroic action in 
Afghanistan. I ask unanimous consent to have the full text of his 
Distinguished Service Cross citation, as well as the narrative that 
accompanies the award, printed in the Record.