# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `c51862d1bc156ede818ca0ea084d89f9`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise in strong support of 
H.R. 2082, the Intelligence Authorization Act of 2007. H.R. 2082 
authorizes the largest amount for intelligence ever considered in a 
single bill, which just goes to show you how important intelligence has 
become to our national security and how serious the new Democratic 
majority is about protecting the homeland and defending the nation.

H.R. 2082 promotes responsible budgeting and oversight by shifting 
resources from the supplemental to the base budget--allowing officers 
in the field to plan their operations properly, particularly in the 
counterterrorism arena, and allowing Congress to review funding 
requests.



The bill makes key investments to strengthen intelligence by adding 
funds to both CIA and military elements for Human Intelligence (HUMINT) 
training. We increase our investments in language training for 
collectors and analysts and in language translation capabilities. We 
also add funding for sending additional analysts overseas. The bill 
also strengthens counterintelligence field operations.

Madam Chairman, H.R. 2082 promotes efficiency and effectiveness of 
intelligence programs by streamlining acquisition, trimming the fat 
from ineffective programs, eliminating redundant activities, requiring 
greater strategic focus in some key areas.

Madam Chairman, this bill does not, as some claim, make deep cuts in 
any intelligence programs. In one area, related to supplemental funding 
for Iraq, the bill reflects bipartisan concerns about excessive 
spending on programs that lack a strategy or metrics for evaluating its 
effectiveness. These funds are shifted to enhance coverage of other 
global challenges, such as Iran, Russia, East Africa, and Asia.

The bill promotes accountability by requiring quarterly intelligence 
updates to Congress on nuclear programs of Iran and North Korea. And it 
requires the CIA Inspector General to conduct an audit of each covert 
action program not less than once every three years.

Finally, Madam, Chairman, H.R. 2082 requires reports to Congress on 
the use of contractors in the Intelligence Community. It requires a 
strategy for implementing a multi-level security clearance system--to 
allow patriotic Americans to serve as translators or linguists in the 
intelligence community. I think it important also that H.R. 2082 
promotes diversity in the intelligence community by requiring a 
strategic plan for implementing the recommendations of a key diversity 
panel.

Last, the H.R. 2082 follows the recommendations of several former 
military commanders in requesting that the National Intelligence 
Council produce a National Intelligence Estimate on national security 
impact of global climate change.

Madam Chairman, I strongly support H.R. 2082 and the rule.