---
---

# PRESERVING UNITED STATES ATTORNEY INDEPENDENCE ACT OF 2007
## `c51bd73654c8d6240cc48eef5f09610b`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 19 March 2007`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Madam President, I come to the floor this evening as a 
cosponsor of Senator Feinstein's legislation, S. 214, regarding the 
interim appointment of U.S. attorneys. I am here this evening to 
vigorously restate my support for this bill and urge my colleagues to 
support its passage. I signed on to this legislation in January 
following the interim appointment of Tim Griffin as U.S. Attorney for 
the Eastern District of Arkansas, who replaced former U.S. Attorney Bud 
Cummins.

I take this opportunity to compliment Senator Pryor, who has done a 
tremendous job in working with Senator Feinstein and others on this 
legislation. His background as attorney general in our State, along 
with his real ability within the Senate to work through these issues to 
bring a calm and respectful response to the concerns that exist here 
has been a tremendous asset to this body in being able to bring the 
bill forward. I thank him and compliment him so much for his service. I 
am very proud to serve alongside him here in the Senate.

When the Congress reauthorized the PATRIOT Act last year, we granted 
the administration the authority to appoint U.S. attorney vacancies on 
an interim basis. Remember, this was for emergency circumstances. The 
administration asked for this authority based upon the idea that if a 
national security issue arose requiring a new U.S. attorney, the 
Attorney General could step up and provide a replacement in a time of 
crisis without the delay of the confirmation process. For those of us 
who come from places such as Arkansas, close to Oklahoma, the Oklahoma 
City bombing comes to mind where a Federal building may be destroyed, 
and all of a sudden you need to make sure the proper authorities in 
public service are in place to be able to continue to serve the public 
there. So we have certainly references of where emergencies might 
occur. But in these instances we have seen reviewed, I don't think 
anybody else could substantiate a real emergency circumstance.

One of the first questions I asked the Justice Department, when they 
asked to do an interim appointment so quickly, was: Was there an 
emergency in this situation? I had not heard about one.

In a January Senate Judiciary hearing, Attorney General Gonzales 
stated this emergency provision would not be used for political 
purposes or to circumvent the nomination process. Yet how else could it 
be explained?

Furthermore, the Attorney General pledged he would work with home 
State Senators to provide replacement U.S. attorneys. I listened to the 
Attorney General's comments, but we now know the actions of his Justice 
Department in recent months do not match the rhetoric he delivered.

Specific information revealed last week shows the Justice Department 
deliberately and deftly planned to circumvent the rules for appointing 
U.S. attorneys by politicizing the emergency provision we authorized.

In one e-mail exchange between White House staff and officials at the 
Department of Justice, the administration specifically plotted to ''gum 
this to death'' and otherwise to ''run out the clock'' in an effort to 
avoid the confirmation process to replace former U.S. Attorney Bud 
Cummins in Arkansas.

These actions are a disservice to the Justice Department, to this 
administration, and to all Americans. They demonstrate a willful lack 
of transparency and respect for the system of checks and balances our 
forefathers instituted. They foresaw the need to make sure the three 
coequal branches of Government would remain separate, that there would 
be a balance and a check to make sure these different branches of our 
Government were operating as they should.

I recognize the U.S. attorneys serve at the pleasure of the President 
and they are political appointees. Lord, we have heard that ad nauseam 
in this debate, that these U.S. attorneys serve at the pleasure of the 
President. But that does not mean they can politicize the law. It does 
not mean they serve the President and they serve in these positions for 
political purposes. They serve in these positions as stewards of the 
law of this land. They serve in these positions as public servants to 
defend the rule of law in this country. However, they have a duty and a 
responsibility, as well, to implement the laws of our Nation without 
political favor or bias.

That is why the confirmation process is so very important, to ensure 
that nominees are qualified and are committed to the rule of law. We 
know they are going to be nominees of the President and that perhaps 
they certainly are acquaintances or those whom the President or 
administration would know, but they still have to be qualified and they 
still have to be able to implement the rule of law. It is an important 
check and balance that has served our Nation well, and any attempt to 
undermine it represents a breakdown in our system.


The e-mails released last week show either a blatant attempt to 
deceive the Senate or, at the very least, serious mismanagement under 
the Attorney General. This controversy has caused a serious breach 
between the Justice Department, Congress and, most importantly, the 
American people--a breach I am not sure can be repaired if Mr. Gonzales 
remains Attorney General.

That is why I am here this evening to preserve the Senate's role in 
the confirmation process and to restore our system to the way our 
forefathers envisioned it.

I compliment Senators Feinstein, Leahy, and Specter for their 
leadership on this issue. This bill represents a compromise on this 
issue, and the bipartisan leadership they have shown should serve as an 
example to this entire body.

I also thank the numerous U.S. attorneys and their staffs all across 
this great Nation for the critical work they do to protect our 
communities by enforcing the laws of our Nation. Far too often, they do 
not receive the credit they deserve.

It is unfortunate the Senate is having to set aside time to debate 
this legislation because we have so many pressing priorities that must 
be addressed as this year progresses. Yet we have had to step aside and 
look at what has gone wrong and how we can prevent it from happening 
again.

How has this breach of trust affected our overall system? Most 
importantly, we have to look at what it has done to the sentiments of 
the American people--those who want desperately to trust us, to trust 
those of us in the legislative branch, to trust those in the executive 
branch, and to trust those in the judicial branch to do our jobs, to be 
there for them as part of the American democracy and what it is we 
stand for in this country, so they can trust that the laws we create 
will be implemented without political bias, and that we would work 
together as branches of Government.

When we look at, unfortunately, what has happened, the mismanagement 
that has occurred time and time again, from this administration 
particularly--whether it was the civilian mismanagement we saw early on 
in Iraq, or the mismanagement of FEMA in Katrina, and the response the 
Government has to the people of the gulf region, we look at these areas 
where the mismanagement that occurred has eroded the faith of the 
American people in this incredible democracy we are all so proud of.

Our democracy relies on independent and unbiased law enforcement. It 
is our duty to ensure that these problems are corrected. I encourage my 
colleagues to support Senator Feinstein's bill, S. 214.

I yield the floor.