# ACCOUNTABILITY IN IRAQ
## `c5235cec8f4e5180a6d6758b7aa48d47`
`Mr. ROCKEFELLER — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. ROCKEFELLER. Mr. President, the Senator from Florida, as usual, 
is correct. I thank him for his kind comments; he is not quite so 
correct about that.

But, yes, that is very much the case. It is simply an example of why 
it is that America--why intelligence is the spear, the tip of the 
spear, and that we never do anything ever again without listening to 
our intelligence--not to Chalabi, not to Richard Perle, but to our 
intelligence--which told us all of these things, which told us what 
would happen, timidly at first but more boldly later on.

We just live in a different world. We are homesteaders. I have always 
felt that way.

After the industrial revolution, the East got sort of flooded up with 
folks who had come from other places, and they went out West with the 
Gold Rush and the land rush, they got their 10 square acres and built 
their houses and picket fences and went about educating their children 
and doing good things but paying very little attention to the rest of 
the world because there was no apparent reason to do so. We had never 
been attacked since 1812, and that was marginal, and 1941 had not 
arrived. This awakened us in many ways, but, in fact, it really didn't. 
Conscription for World War II passed the Congress, I believe--or one 
House of the Congress--I believe by one vote, after Pearl Harbor. We go 
over and we fight just wars, and then we come back and we disarm.

It is not in our nature to know about the rest of the world. There is 
not a profound curiosity factor that pulls us, now that we are very 
much a part of the world, to understand what is going on in other parts 
of the world and in specific countries where there happens to be a 
threat of people who have come to see us as greedy, hate our green 
lawns and picket fences, and think that our view of life and morality 
is way off. They are very serious about that. We slough it aside, but 
they are very serious about that.

So how we thought we could somehow do this, come in and mediate 
something which had been going on I would say since the death of 
Muhammad in 632--but that doesn't matter; it is a question of how his 
succession would be carried out. That has lasted ever since. The 
British and French came in and created a place called Iraq, but the 
tribal people who kept living all through those years there were always 
the same and their habits were always the same, and, in fact, it is 
true throughout most of the rest of the world, if you go to the 
Philippines, if you go to many places--revenge, tribal loyalties, as 
opposed to central government loyalties. I have never been convinced 
that a constitution or a parliament means a whit to the people of Iraq. 
It meant everything to us because it is sort of the definition of 
democracy on the rise, but I don't think it made any difference to them 
at all.

So we misread because we don't read, we don't read and we don't 
study, we don't go, we don't learn languages because we don't think we 
have to, and we have not had to because the world has been very 
simple--the Soviet soldiers in uniform versus American soldiers in 
uniform, our various planes, tanks, and all the rest of it, but then a 
red phone on each side to try to calm things down. The world is no 
longer simple. Everybody looks like everybody else in very dangerous 
places.

When we entered into Iraq, it was without thought, it was without 
study. The decision was more or less made within 2 or 3 days of 9/11, 
which, when you think about it, is rather silly. So there was no real 
understanding of Iraq, even as there is no real understanding of Iran 
today, no understanding of North Korea. There is a superficial 
understanding, the dramatic parts--nuclear this, something else that, 
starvation that. But who are they?

Why is it that North Korea and South Korea--44 million in the south, 
22 million in the north--that amongst all of those people, 66 million 
people, there are only 400 surnames--''Nelson'' being a surname, 
''Rockefeller'' being a surname--there are only 400 surnames. The world 
is mixed and varied.

Japan disappeared for 250 years during the Tokugawa era. Nobody could 
get in, nobody could get out. That was just 150 years ago, and they 
still bear some of that with them. Do we understand that? I don't think 
we do. They are a democracy. Are they? They were handed their 
Constitution by GEN Douglas MacArthur, and except for a period of 3 
months--and I was there during those 3 months--in the last 60 years, 
one party has controlled the country in its entirety.

So there are many things to understand in this world, but among those 
places we did not understand and still do not are the vicissitudes of 
Iraq, the Sunni and the Shiites, each of them bearing within them many 
layers of competition, revenge, family feuds, all the rest of it.