# RECOGNIZING MILITARY AVIATORS WHO ESCAPED CAPTURE
## `c523bb04f7abdc6e79fbe623ca120397`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 20 March 2010`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. I thank the gentlelady.

The previous resolution had to do with the anniversary of Iwo Jima. 
This is something that would actually go to a number of wars and 
conflicts that the U.S. Armed Forces have been involved in, but I will 
focus a bit on a veteran of World War II in terms of the need for this 
recognition and resolution.

Oddly enough somehow, the Defense Department has overlooked the 
valiant service of many who were previously in the Army Air Corps, now 
in the United States Air Force, or in the flying arms of the United 
States Army or the Marines and Navy and their sacrifice when they have 
been shot down behind enemy lines and not captured and imprisoned, but 
actually managed to evade escape, sometimes allying themselves with 
resistance movements, other times just depriving the enemy of the 
victory of capturing a downed U.S. pilot, bombardier, airman of any 
sort.

This first came to my attention when I was approached by a gentleman 
I have known a number of years in Eugene, Oregon, Don Fisher. And he 
came to me with a request I hear from a lot of vets, which is, ''Hey, 
could you help me get my service records?'' We had the infamous fire in 
St. Louis which burned up so many veterans' records. And we are often 
asked to help reconstitute their records, generally for benefit 
purposes, but sometimes for other purposes. And I said, ''Sure, Don.'' 
I mean that's really pretty routine. ''We can help you with that.'' He 
said, ''This one isn't quite so routine.'' And I said, ''Well, how is 
that?'' And he said, ''Well, I was shot down over occupied France in a 
B-17. I came down behind enemy lines, and I was harbored by French 
families who were friendly to the allies. I cooperated and worked with 
the resistance and evaded escape until D-day.'' And on D-day he 
revealed himself to British forces and was first allowed to send a 
message home. But then when turned over to the U.S. forces, they had 
questions about whether he really was a U.S. aviator, and he was rather 
extensively interrogated.

So what he wanted was to get his interrogation files. He said, ''I 
really don't remember everything that happened to me when I was behind 
enemy lines.'' He said, ''I'm sure when I was a young man I had a 
better memory. And I would like to have that for my family and 
myself.'' I said, ''Well, sure. We'll help.'' It's either still in the 
depths of some classification system somewhere or it was declassified, 
so we could never find that file.

But that brought me an interest in him and his organization. There is 
an organization of what they call evaders. In this case they are World 
War II. Many of them are becoming quite elderly. They are going to have 
a reunion in the not too distant future out at the Air Force Academy in 
Colorado.

I took on the task to try to get them some recognition. So this is 
actually two parts. One is expressing the sense of Congress for 
admiration for their extraordinary service. And again, this does not 
just extend to World War II. It would be Korea, Vietnam, and Iraq, 
Afghanistan, other conflicts and other involvements by U.S. forces. 
Anybody who has been in this situation.

Secondly, I am recommending strongly to the Secretary of Defense that 
a special ribbon, award, or medal be developed to recognize these 
activities and encourage these activities, because there will be future 
U.S. aviators who will be in the same position. And we want them to 
know that we honored their forebears, those who came before them who 
for years hid and operated behind enemy lines and then came back to 
freedom with our victories.

It is almost exactly 47 years since he was shot down. It's a story 
that is not totally extraordinary. I know other World War II veterans. 
But I just recount it briefly. His plane was shot down. They bailed 
out. He doesn't remember much because they were at a pretty high 
altitude. He blacked out. The next thing he knew he was hanging from a 
tree, and the German fighter pilot circled him. And he thought for sure 
he was going to be strafed. Instead, the German fighter pilot saluted 
him and flew off.

He then managed to get extricated from his harness, and after that 
was sheltered by the French, and ultimately became associated with 
French resistance, and as I say, met the liberators in Paris when we 
liberated Paris. So this is one of thousands of extraordinary stories 
and acts of valor by our soldiers.

I just hope strongly that we can get unanimous agreement on this 
resolution and restrict the debate to the subject of this resolution to 
honor these people for their extraordinary service, and move on.