# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `c5410a70b7014c523eeac4fb26e4f597`
`Mr. DORGAN — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, those of us who serve in the Senate 
serve in a political system. John F. Kennedy used to say that every 
mother hopes a child might grow up to be President as long as they do 
not have to be active in politics. But, of course, politics is the 
process within which we make decisions--a very honorable process. But 
it is not new to the political system to hear evidence of false claims. 
In fact, it is a time-honored tradition in politics to hear at least 
some people in striped pants stand up and make all kinds of false 
claims.

It has reached, I must say, some new heights on the floor of the 
Senate in the last couple of weeks. As I was listening to some of these 
things in the Senate, particularly on energy and some of the claims 
that have been made, I was thinking about when I was a little boy and 
the carnival would come to my small town of 300 people. You can imagine 
the size of a carnival that would come to a town of 300 and actually 
pitch a tent.

One of the things I remember about a carnival coming to town is it 
had a sideshow. And the sideshow in every carnival, I suppose, is the 
same. They paint the canvas on the sideshow with unbelievably bright 
paintings, and then they have a barker, a carnival barker, and they 
say: Come in here and see the woman with two heads; come in here and 
see the world's fatest man; come in and see the sideshow and see the 
man born with an alligator's tail. And my eyes were like dinner plates, 
thinking, boy this is going to be something. And none of that was in 
there. I mean, it was, you know, these big old claims.

Well, let me talk a little about big old claims that are not true 
here in the Senate. We have been hearing them now for 2 weeks.

We have an energy problem. It is a significant problem. The price of 
oil and gas doubled in a year, bouncing up to $120, $140 a barrel. The 
price of gasoline--$4, $4.50 a gallon--doubled in a year.

So our colleagues on the minority side come to the floor of the 
Senate. They have this voice track. It goes over and over and over; it 
is called looping. They say: Do you know what the problem is? We know 
what the problem is: The Democrats will not let anybody drill.

Well, it is an interesting discussion but not true. It reminds me of 
Will Rogers, who said: It is not what he knows that bothers me, it is 
what he says he knows for sure that just ain't so.

It is not true that people on this side of the Senate Chamber do not 
want anybody to drill. It is simply not true. I have brought out chart 
after chart showing so much that is open for drilling. In fact, I was 
one of four Senators who helped open what is called lease 181 in the 
Gulf of Mexico, 8 million acres. Four of us--myself, Senator Domenici, 
Senator Bingaman, and Senator Talent from Missouri--introduced a bill 
saying: Let's open 8 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico that has 
substantial oil and natural gas deposits. Let's open that. You know 
what, we did it, in a bipartisan manner. And 2 years later, there is 
not a bit of activity on that 8 million acres.

Our colleagues rush over to the floor of the Senate and say: Well, 
the Democrats are at fault. They will not let you drill.

It is not true. There are many areas that are open for drilling, and 
we have supported that. Oh, I do not support a goofy proposition that 
is ricocheting around here that says: You know what, let's go to the 
Outer Continental Shelf, which belongs to all of America and which is 
not yet open, and let's let Governors of States decide whether it 
should be opened. I mean, that stands goofiness on its head. The Outer 
Continental Shelf belongs to all of the American people. That does not 
belong to a State. That does not belong to a Governor. That is an 
absurd proposition.

So they come to floor of the Senate with their chart, and it says: 
Produce more, use less. But you know what the problem is: the actions 
do not match the words. Let me describe what I mean by that.

Let me say that I support producing more. I am fine with drilling 
holes. I am fine with finding oil and gas. But our colleagues have this 
mindset of yesterday forever. Every 10 or 15 years, they shuffle into 
this Chamber, sort of slouched over with their hands in their pockets, 
saying: Let's drill some more. That is just yesterday forever.

I am for drilling, but what we ought to be doing is other things to 
change the mix, to change our energy future. You know, almost 65 
percent of the oil we use comes from off our shore, from the Saudis, 
Kuwait, Iraq, Venezuela. That makes us enormously vulnerable. We need 
something that is game changing, that means different kinds of energy.

Yes, let's produce more, then let's produce different energy, and 
let's conserve more as well. But when you talk about the issue of 
production, it is not just drilling a hole for oil. That is what our 
colleagues believe. Production is also taking energy from the wind and 
producing electricity. Production is taking energy from the Sun and 
producing electricity. Production is the biofuels from corn or 
cellulose to produce gasoline and ethanol. Production is biomass and 
geothermal. Production is all of that.

Now, eight times in a little over a year we have had votes on the 
floor of the Senate to extend the tax incentives for renewable energy. 
Eight times, those who come to the floor with their little charts 
talking about producing more, eight times they have said: No, we will 
not support it. Now, let me tell those who listen to this why they will 
not support it--because it costs some money in the short term to 
provide tax incentives to get people to invest in renewable energy.

We ought to do renewable energy in a big way. This ought to be game 
changing. It ought to make us much less dependent on the Saudis and 
Kuwaitis and others. You do that, it seems to me, by changing the 
energy mix.

My colleagues do not support that on the other side of the aisle. Do 
you know why? Because it costs money to provide tax incentives. So we 
pay for that. We are deep in debt in this country, but we pay for it 
because it ought to be paid for in the bill we have offered. So my 
colleagues vote against it.

Let me describe why. One of our pay-fors to help provide these tax 
incentives for renewable energy is to shut down this unbelievable tax 
break that exists by which hedge fund managers can take their billions 
of dollars and move them through tax shelters overseas and avoid paying 
taxes to the United States of America. My colleagues oppose closing 
that loophole. They stand with the ability to move hedge fund income 
overseas to shelter it so they do not have to pay taxes. That is 
unbelievable. I mean, part of the process in this Chamber, at least, 
is: Who do you stand for? How on Earth do you want to go home and say: 
You know what, I decided to vote eight times against incentivizing 
substantial additional production of renewable energy, energy from the 
wind, from the


Sun and so on, to make us less dependent on the Saudis. I voted against 
that because I demand and insist that hedge fund managers have a right 
to run their income through the Cayman Islands and avoid paying U.S. 
taxes.

Get a chart. If you want to get a chart, print that up in a chart and 
take it to the Rotary Club and say: Here is who I stand with. Here is 
what I stand for. Explain that at home.

How on Earth do you get by with that? I do not understand it at all. 
You bring a chart to the floor and say ''produce more.'' Well, let me 
tell you how you produce more--the renewable energy production tax 
credit.

Let me tell you what we have done in this country. We said a long 
time ago, 1916: If you go looking for oil and gas, we like that. We 
want you to find oil and gas because we have an economy that needs it. 
So you go drilling, good for you; we give you robust permanent tax 
incentives. We have done that for nearly a century. Here is what we did 
for people who tried to do new technologies that take energy from the 
wind and the Sun and so on--a production tax credit for renewable 
energy.

In 1992, we said: We will give you tax incentives to expand renewable 
energy, kind of shallow tax incentives. By the way, they are going to 
be short term, so they will expire. We extended them five times for a 
short term. We let them expire three times. It was stutter, stop, 
start, stutter, stop. It was an unbelievably pathetic approach.

Some of us believe we ought to go 10 years and say: Here is where 
America is headed. You want to join us, we are going to be here for 10 
years trying to develop America's renewable energy so we can become 
less dependent on oil from Saudi Arabia and elsewhere.

That is what we ought to be doing. But my colleagues from the 
minority come to floor of the Senate and have opposed it all along the 
way. They have opposed it eight times. In fact, the people who oppose 
this have come to the floor of the Senate and said: We need more 
electric-drive vehicles. We need to move toward plug-in hybrid 
vehicles. You bet we do. That means substantial investment in battery 
technology. That is in the bill, by the way, that you voted against. 
That means substantial investment in renewables. If you are going to 
drive electric vehicles, you are going to have to have electricity.

They vote against that, vote against all of this, and then come to 
the floor and say: We need the product of this to do what we want to do 
to drive electric vehicles. It is unbelievable.

I have described this probably 20 times in the Senate. Perhaps some 
get tired of it, but we are trying to do something here. We have been 
stopped, which is frustrating. It is the easiest thing in the world to 
stop progress. The minority has demonstrated that now for 2 weeks. I 
have described Mark Twain when he was asked if he would engage in a 
debate once. He said: Sure, I would be happy to engage in a debate, as 
long as I can take the negative side. They said: No one has told you 
the subject of the debate. Mark Twain said: The subject doesn't matter. 
The negative side will require no preparation.

It doesn't require any skill or preparation to take the negative side 
of anything. So for 2 weeks we have tried to pass legislation to wring 
the speculation out of the oil futures market. Seventy-one percent of 
that market is now controlled by speculators who don't want a thing to 
do with oil. They wouldn't lift a quart of oil. They want to trade 
paper and make money. We are trying to shut down excess speculation. 
What we have found is our colleagues, when the question is, who do you 
stand with, they say: We will stand with the oil speculators. We will 
block that.

Eight times we bring a bill to the floor that says, let's at least 
provide incentives to try to change the plan at this point and begin 
substantially increasing the use of renewable energy. Eight times our 
colleagues have voted against that.

Let me go through what this would have provided, what we tried to do: 
a renewable energy production tax credit, solar and fuel cell 
investment tax credits, clean renewable energy tax credit bonds, tax 
incentives for plug-in electric drive vehicles. The list goes on and 
on, all things we should be doing. Eight times we have lost the vote to 
proceed because the minority, which says they support all of this, has 
decided they don't want to close the a loophole that allows hedge fund 
managers to run their incomes through the Cayman Islands and other tax 
havens in order to avoid paying taxes. We close the loophole to help 
pay for all of this, and our colleagues have an apoplectic seizure. You 
can't do that, they say.

I don't understand. It is beyond me that they believe it is going to 
work to come to the floor of the Senate and make a claim that is a 
false claim that somehow the majority party doesn't support drilling. 
Of course we do.

Let me describe it from a parochial standpoint. The biggest drilling 
play in America right now is in eastern Montana and western North 
Dakota. The U.S. Geological Survey did an assessment at my request. The 
U.S. Geological Survey and I announced about 3 months ago that that is 
the largest assessment of recoverable oil ever made in the lower 48 
States; 3.6 billion barrels to 4.3 billion barrels of oil using today's 
technology are going to be recoverable. We have up to 75 drilling rigs 
active right now, drilling a well about every 30 or 35 days, moving 
every 30 or 35 days to a new well site. It is the biggest oil play in 
our country. I fully support that. It makes a lot of sense. I was the 
one who got the U.S. Geological Survey to do the assessment. I was the 
one who helped get lease 181 opened up, 8 million acres in the gulf.

It doesn't wash with me or my colleagues to have people come to the 
floor with their little charts talking about this side doesn't support 
production. Of course we do. But production by drilling a hole 
searching for black gold called oil is not the only way to produce 
energy. We are never going to get out of this fix of needing 65 percent 
of the oil we use from the Saudis and others, unless we change the game 
completely. That means completely changing our energy future.

I have described often our situation. We have this big old planet 
that circles the Sun. We share it with about 6.6 billion people. We 
stick straws in the planet and suck oil out, about 85 million barrels a 
day, and 21 million barrels is destined for here because we need one-
fourth of all the oil produced on the planet. One-fourth of the oil 
coming out of this planet every day has to come to this country because 
we have a prodigious appetite for oil. The fact is, we need to continue 
to use oil, and will. But we need to find ways to change our energy mix 
in the future. The only conceivable way to do that is to begin 
substantial research dollars and to pass these kinds of tax incentives 
to move toward other kinds of energy use, solar, geothermal, wind, and 
so on. You can add up all the money we spend on this sort of thing to 
change our energy future and make this country less dependent and more 
secure, and it's equivalent to what the Pentagon spends in 40 days. 
That makes no sense.

If we are going to invest in this country's future, we have to pass 
legislation such as this. We can't have a Senate in which we have 
people who fashion themselves as human brake pads coming over here to 
stop everything just because they want to support hedge fund managers 
who want to wash their U.S. income through foreign subsidiaries and 
avoid taxes. That is not a sustainable policy, to continue protecting 
tax avoidance and stopping investment in renewable energy.

This country can have a pretty terrific future, but we face big 
challenges. We are not going to solve or address this country's 
challenges unless we think in very different ways.

I understand there will be some perfectly content for this Congress 
to adjourn or leave town and go on the August break having done 
nothing. I will be one of those who is not content. It makes no sense 
that there are those out there with projects on the shelf right now for 
new wind energy farms, for solar energy applications, for geothermal 
and biofuels, all of the other renewables, and they are not going to go 
ahead unless they have some notion that this country will extend the 
tax incentives for that renewable energy. On eight separate occasions, 
the minority has come to the floor of the Senate and said, when asked, 
will you extend these tax incentives, they have said: No, no, no, eight 
times. That is not in this country's interest.










 Unanimous Consent Agreement--H.R. 4137


On behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent that at 
5:30


today, the Senate proceed to the conference report to accompany H.R. 
4137, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act, and that there be 
130 minutes for debate divided as follows: 50 minutes under the control 
of Senator Mikulski or her designee, 30 minutes each under the control 
of Senators Enzi and Alexander or their designees, and 20 minutes under 
the control of Senator Coburn; that upon the use or yielding back of 
time, the Senate proceed to a vote on adoption of the conference 
report, without further intervening action or debate. I note for the 
Record that this agreement has been cleared on both sides of the aisle.