# None
## `c5491e49db9780e342f260ad598d1344`
`Mr. JONES of North Carolina — 3 June 2008`

---


Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, on May 8, 2008, I 
introduced H. Res. 1183, a resolution calling for the House to observe 
a moment of silence on the first legislative day of each month for 
those killed or wounded, as well as their families, in the United 
States' engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I am very grateful that the Speaker of the House has written me to 
indicate her support for this proposal and has agreed that it is 
important for the House of Representatives to honor America's fallen 
heroes. It is my understanding that the Speaker will initiate this 
moment of silence during the first series of votes tomorrow.

I am pleased that this month will mark the beginning of the House's 
ongoing observation of a moment of silence for those killed or wounded 
in Iraq or Afghanistan. I thank Speaker Pelosi for making this right 
and fitting tribute a part of the regular order of the House.

This moment of silence will serve as a solemn reminder of the more 
than 4,000 killed and more than 30,000 wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan 
and a thank you from a grateful Nation. For their courage and selfless 
commitment to duty, these servicemembers, and their families, deserve 
our unending support.

Again, I want to thank Speaker Pelosi, and Catlin O'Neill on her 
staff, for working with me to make this remembrance a reality for the 
families of those who have sacrificed for our Nation.
