---
---

# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `c557720f0b4029c5df29547a9a9ab6ae`
`Ms. WATERS — 2 August 2007`

---


Ms. WATERS. I would like to commend the gentlelady from California 
for the tremendous work that she has done, not only to deal with all of 
the problems of our being in Iraq, but for bringing this legislation to 
the floor.

The U.S. has been at war in Afghanistan since October 7, 2001, and in 
Iraq since March 19, 2003. Since that time, over 1 million troops have 
been deployed to Iraq, in total, with 500,000 having been deployed at 
least twice. These numbers are rapidly growing at the detriment of the 
military. There are currently 160,000 troops on active duty in Iraq.

To keep up this level of deployment with an all-volunteer military, 
the administration is cutting corners on previous rules on troop 
deployment limits and rest times. Our military is being ground down to 
the hilt, and it's near the breaking point.

In recent briefings, Major General Batiste said young officers and 
noncommissioned officers are leaving the service at an alarming rate. 
Equipment is in dismal shape, requiring hundreds of billions of dollars 
to refit the force to preinvasion conditions. Active duty companies 
preparing for deployment to Iraq within the next 6 months are at less 
than 50 percent strength, are commanded by young and sometimes 
inexperienced lieutenants, and are lacking the equipment needed for 
training. Our all-volunteer force cannot sustain the current attempt 
for much longer.

The lack of deployment limits and dwell times have taken an 
incredible strain on the individuals who have been asked to shoulder 
this burden. Post-traumatic stress disorder and similar illnesses are 
significantly amplified by enduring or repeated deployments to Iraq.

Consequently, our men and women in uniform are returning with levels 
of mental illness not seen since Vietnam. According to a recent study 
by the Department of Defense, 49 percent of National Guardsmen report 
mental health problems. Let us not forget the hidden casualties of the 
war in Iraq, the families.