---
---

# OUR WORSENING HEALTH CARE CRISIS
## `c568fc9b5844261068e099a68bf41636`
`Mr. CONYERS — 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, we are in the midst of the ''Cover the 
Uninsured Week,'' and I rise to remind the Chamber of the worsening 
health care crisis that we face as a Nation, and propose a solution to 
one of the biggest challenges of the 21st Century facing us.

Lack of health insurance often denies necessary medical care. Forty 
seven million Americans are uninsured. This problem is not limited to 
the poor or the unemployed. Researchers have estimated that about four-
fifths of the uninsured are either employed or members of a family with 
an employed adult.

As well, there are an additional 50 million Americans who are 
underinsured; that is, they have coverage that would not protect them 
from catastrophic medical expenses. Simply put, an increasing number of 
Americans lack adequate health insurance because they and their 
employers simply cannot afford it.

Despite the challenges of the war in Iraq and the slumping economy, 
we all agree that the uninsured need to be covered. Even the health 
insurance companies have their own plan for covering the uninsured. I'm 
glad that we're on the same page, after all these years.

The real question we face is, how do we go about covering the 
uninsured? And how do we ensure that every American has access to 
quality medical care when they need it?

I strongly believe in a single-payer national health insurance, an 
approach that has been too often marginalized in debates on this issue, 
even though it has been successfully employed in almost every 
industrial nation except our own.

Mr. Speaker, it's time for Congress to consider single-payer, not 
only as a viable option to cover the uninsured, but as the preferred 
solution to fix our broken health care system. And make no mistake 
about it, it is in very bad shape.

According to a January 2007 article in the Journal of Health Affairs, 
France, Japan and Australia rated best, and the United States worst in 
new rankings focusing on preventable deaths due to treatable 
conditions, in 19 leading industrialized nations.

The article revealed that if the United States health care system 
performed as well as those top three countries, there'd be 101,000 
fewer deaths in the United States each year.

Equally disturbing, the Institute of Medicine reports that 20,000 
Americans die each year as a direct result of having no health 
insurance. How can we, in the Congress, who receive fairly decent 
health care, tell 47 million uninsured Americans that they cannot have 
access to health care?

With the knowledge that 20,000 Americans die each year without health 
insurance, how can we, in Congress, who do have health insurance, not 
place universal health care as a front burner issue in this chamber?

This is a moral challenge that we all must pick up. And 
incrementalism will not work. Expanding a broken system or fixing parts 
of it will not work. We must approach the health care solution the same 
way a physician approaches the treatment of disease. Doctors do not 
employ treatments only because they are easy or feasible. They choose 
evidence-based solutions based upon peer-reviewed research in order to 
employ the most state-of-the-art care available. And so I propose we 
take the same approach to crafting a universal health care plan.

So today, I ask the following question: What further disaster must 
befall us before we face the crisis of the uninsured and the 
underinsured?

How many more people must die due to the inability to receive care in 
the world's healthiest Nation before we, in Congress, take action and 
create a truly universal health care system?

For those who believe that we are not ready to have a universal 
health care system, and must delay the formation of a comprehensive, 
national health insurance program, I ask you to consider the following 
evidence that demonstrates why we can ill afford delaying action on a 
universal health care system.

Health care horror stories are cases in which the result is so tragic 
that it shocks the conscience. We hear about them almost every day, in 
the newspapers, magazines, the Internet, television, radio, personal 
encounters with our friends and neighbors.

In the movie ''Sicko'' we, as a Nation, saw firsthand how even those 
with health insurance suffer under the current, for profit, employer-
based private health insurance system.

In my office, I receive scores of health care horror stories each 
month, and have binders in my office of health care tragedies that we 
have collected over the last 8 years. In fact, when Michael Moore was 
doing research for ''Sicko'' he received 25,000 health care horror 
stories himself, after he made an appeal for those horror stories on 
his website.

I'd like to read a health care horror story sent to us by Adrienne 
Campbell from Michigan, a story, that, unfortunately, millions of 
Americans who are underinsured or uninsured can relate to. Here's her 
story.

My sister, who is 22 years old right now, was diagnosed with cervical 
cancer, the same cancer I had at the same age. She graduated from 
college back in December, so she is off my dad's insurance.

Jobs are hard to find here in Michigan, so she's working two part-
time jobs, and neither of them provide insurance for part-time workers.

She has to go through what I did, but instead of actually being able 
to get medical treatment right away, then having to pay for it, she has 
to put off until she and the hospital can work out a payment plan. They 
told her the soonest they might be able to perform the surgery will be 
in April.

We've been calling around seeking other options. She's at Stage 4. I 
was at Stage 2, when I went through my ordeal, so she's in much worse 
condition than I was; which worries me.


This is unacceptable. It's like I am living my horror all over again, 
only this is my sister. This is why we have


to fight. We have to shake things up this election year.

There's nothing you can do for my sister at this point, except keep 
her in your prayers, and I hope that she can get surgery soon. But, for 
those women who may get cervical cancer down the road, let's fight for 
universal health care so they don't have to go through the money 
worries.

I love my sister, Victoria, or as my daughter calls her, Aunt Gickie, 
because she can't say Vickie.

Please, just keep her in your prayers and thoughts. Thanks for 
letting me vent. I love her too much to see this happen to her.

Mr. Speaker, we do not have a health care system in this country. 
What exists is a fragmented, nonsystem of health care. It's a wasteful 
and inefficient patchwork of different plans and schemes that allow too 
many people to fall between the cracks.

The complexity of this nonsystem is what makes it unsustainable. 
Private health insurers are in the business to make a profit. Make no 
mistake about it. In fact, the real problem is that insurance companies 
are not as much in the business to provide care as they are in the 
business to deny care. They keep profits up by avoiding high risk 
patients, limiting the coverage of those they do insure, and passing 
costs back to patients through copayments and deductibles.

They deny coverage based on pre-existing conditions, including such 
costly diseases as athletes foot and yeast infections.

They employ an army of adjusters who go through mountains of 
paperwork, all mostly working to figure out a way to deny a claim. We 
have the story of insurance company whistleblower, Dr. Linda Pino, who 
tells us she was paid a bonus on how many claims that she could deny, 
and threatened with demotion if she authorized payment on more claims 
than her peers.

These practices are harmful. They're expensive. All those adjusters 
and paperwork cost a lot of money. Add to that insurance costs the 
insurance company's spending on advertising, huge executive salaries, 
and profits for shareholders, and the result is an average overhead of 
15 cents on the dollar. Compare that with Medicare's overhead which is 
between 2 and 3 cents.

The complexity of this nonsystem not only leads to gaps in coverage 
and navigating nightmares, but it's underscored by the duplicity and 
waste created by the multitude of health insurance companies.

Mr. Speaker, I'm pleased now to recognize the gentleman from Ohio, 
who's been on this plan for--several Congresses ago he was and is the 
original co-founder and original signer with me to this bill. He's 
worked relentlessly in the Congress and across the country in making it 
clear that we're working on a system that some day is going to bring so 
much joy and benefit to the millions of Americans in this country. He's 
a fearless, dedicated, articulate leader, and I would now yield to my 
colleague, Dennis Kucinich.

