---
---

# FISCAL IRRESPONSIBILITY
## `c56c0dba993eb2042f113d93acef3267`
`Mr. HENSARLING — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. HENSARLING. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding. And, again, I 
thank her for her leadership in this institution, a very clear, 
concise, conservative voice on this House floor, particularly when it 
comes to trying to save the family budget from the onslaught of the 
Federal budget.

As my colleague from Tennessee has pointed out, the House is 
completely broken. It is completely broken and felled under this new 
Democratic leadership. They said they would do better if they were in 
charge. So what do they bring us today? Today they bring us a 3,565-
page spending bill which people have been able to see beside my 
colleague's speaking position over here, weighing in at 34.4 pounds, 
roughly the weight of my 5-year-old daughter.

It spends $515 billion of the people's money, and the Democrat 
majority brought it to the floor tonight and devoted less than 1 hour 
of floor time debating this omnibus bill. This body spent about a 
minute debating every $9.1 billion being spent in this bill.

Now, that is money if left in the hands of the families of America 
and the small businesses of America, who make the jobs and have to work 
hard to send their kids to college and put food on the table and put 
roofs over their heads, that money is coming from them; and we spent 
less than a minute debating $9 billion. The minutes went by, and all of 
a sudden this House passed a $515 billion bill.

Now, Mr. Speaker, when the Republicans were in charge, unfortunately, 
my party occasionally brought an omnibus bill to the floor, and I 
personally voted against each and every one because I don't believe 
that was the vision of the Founding Fathers. It is not the way we 
should run this government. In fact, I was at a town hall meeting in my 
district not too long ago and a gentleman from the Athens, Texas, in 
the 5th Congressional District of Texas, said: Don't you think we would 
have a much better government if Members of Congress were actually 
required to read the legislation before they vote on it?

What human being can read 34.4 pounds, 3,565 pages in one day? That 
is right, Mr. Speaker, this bill was just given to us today. In the 
early morning hours, this bill was laid upon this institution.

So there is no transparency here. It is interesting to me that when 
the majority party was in the minority, they screamed to the rafters 
about this process. Listen to what Speaker Pelosi, then minority Pelosi 
had to say about this process: ''The Republican leadership forced 
through a so-called 'martial law' rule that required a same-day vote 
preventing Members of Congress from having enough time to read 
legislation. They spent hundreds of billions of dollars and it was 
thousands of pages long. This arrogance of power is part of a pattern 
of abuse.''

Now that is what Speaker Pelosi said 3 years ago when she was in the 
minority. Now that she is the Speaker, does this mean she is imposing 
martial law on this House with this process that she decried 3 years 
ago? Is she now bringing a spirit of arrogance to this institution 
which she decried 3 years ago? Is she part of the pattern of abuse that 
she decried 3 years by forcing Members of this institution to vote on 
this monstrosity?

So on process alone, this bill ought to be rejected. But it really 
ought to be rejected because it puts us on a path of extreme fiscal 
irresponsibility. Already today this government is on automatic pilot 
to force the largest single tax increase in American history on working 
families all across America. It was included in the Democrat budget. 
More spending fosters more taxes. And that's just the start, Mr. 
Speaker, because after imposing the single largest tax increase in 
American history in the Democrat budget, with their so-called ''mother 
of all tax increases,'' they are going to once again make history by 
imposing the single largest tax increase in American history yet again, 
perhaps twice in a 12-month period. I am sure that will break some kind 
of record here in the House of Representatives.



But don't take my word for it. Listen to the head of the 
Congressional Budget Office, the head of the Government Accountability 
Office, the Federal Reserve chairman. They are all going to tell you 
the same thing, Mr. Speaker, and that is without changing the spending 
patterns of the Federal Government of which this omnibus represents 
some of the worst, we are on automatic pilot to double taxes on the 
next generation. Double. And the average American family pays roughly 
$22,000 a year in taxes. That will go to $44,000. How many American 
dreams are going to be squashed by a tax burden of that magnitude, 
represented by that 34.4 pound omnibus spending legislation which will 
flatten the American taxpayer like a bus.

It is full of gimmicks from people who said they were going to bring 
the most honest and ethical Congress in the history of mankind to this 
institution. They take a rubber stamp and they stamp ''emergency 
spending'' on anything that moves because they have this little clever 
device that allows them to avoid any kind of budget discipline when 
they do that. They have this gimmick called ''advanced appropriations'' 
that would make an Enron accountant blush, but they use it to once 
again evade any spending discipline whatsoever in this institution.

They said they would clean up earmarks and this is chock full of 
earmarks. Mr. Speaker, if you look closely, maybe some of these 
earmarks pass the legal test. Maybe they even pass some ethical test, 
but all too often the American people are seeing campaign cash going 
into the institution on this end, and they are seeing earmarks coming 
out the other end. It doesn't meet the fiscal responsibility test, and 
it doesn't meet the American taxpayer smell test. And that bill is 
chock full of it. Out of 3,565 pages, 692 pages are devoted to 
individual congressional earmarks, which many of the American people 
believe serve no other purposes other than to get Members of Congress 
reelected.

Again, the Democrat majority said they would clean it up and there 
would be transparency and accountability. We haven't even had time to 
read the 692 pages. We don't know what is in there. Maybe there is 
another museum to a Member of Congress, as the chairman of the Ways and 
Means Committee managed to earmark $2 million to create a museum to 
himself.

One final point before turning this over to some of my other able 
colleagues from the Republican Study Committee. I want to harken back 
to a point made by the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Ryan), ranking 
member of the Budget Committee. Earlier tonight the Democrat majority 
leader came to the floor and said, We have a responsibility to fund our 
government.

Well, I don't know everything that is in that bill, Mr. Speaker, but 
I know something that isn't in that bill. There is no funding for the 
men and women fighting for freedom in Iraq. Not one penny. Now how do 
you have a bill that ostensibly funds the United States Government and 
somehow you leave out the men and women who wear our Nation's uniform? 
They wear our Nation's uniform. They come from the small towns and 
factories and fields from all over America. Their paychecks come from 
the same United States Treasury that Members of Congress' do. Somehow 
the Democrat majority managed to put into their 34-pound bill thousands 
of earmarks. They managed to fund every single bureaucrat at the 
Commerce Department, but they can't find one penny for our brave men 
and women fighting on the front lines of freedom in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, maybe they don't believe in the cause, but don't they 
believe in the soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines?



There is no way that any Member with any credibility can come to this 
floor and say we are presenting a bill to fund the Federal Government 
but, oh, we don't really consider members of our armed services 
fighting in Iraq to be members of our government. I just don't know 
what planet some of these people come from, Mr. Speaker, and that's 
just shameful. It is a shameful moment this year in the history of the 
House to present this spending abomination, chock full of earmarks that 
ignore our men and women in harm's way in Iraq. And it's one of the 
lowest points of this entire year for this Democrat Congress. And I 
hope that the American people are paying very special attention to what 
is going on here tonight.

I appreciate the gentlelady, again, for her leadership for taking the 
time to help elaborate on really this heinous piece of legislation that 
came to the floor earlier, and I want to thank her. And I want to thank 
all the members of the House Conservative Caucus, the Republican Study 
Committee, the largest caucus in the House, for always being ready and 
vigilant to fight for freedom and to work for less government and more 
freedom and more opportunity, and that's what the Republican Study 
Committee is all about. And I appreciate the opportunity to share in 
this Special Order, and I yield back to the gentlelady from Tennessee.