---
---

# JOB CREATION IN AMERICA
## `c598ccb969caea8bdfa7214a7ccbb805`
`Mr. AKIN â€” 2 December 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Just reclaiming my time, gentleman, you were here on the 
floor with me when we were talking about this very thing. It wasn't so 
many months ago. It isn't that we are great wizards of economics. It's 
just that we've learned something from history. The fact is is that the 
method and the approach of ''stimulating the economy'' or, effectively, 
tremendous levels of government spending and money that they don't 
have, does not help an economy that's ailing, and it's not going to 
help unemployment. We were here at this 8 percent unemployment, and we 
were told that, Hey, if you don't get this stimulus bill through, why, 
it's going to go above 8 percent. We passed the stimulus bill, and here 
we are at 10.2 percent. But that's not a coincidence.

Now of course the Obama administration would love to try to blame 
that on President Bush and everything. But what he has unfortunately 
not done is learned from--even if he didn't want to learn from a 
Republican, he could learn from a Democrat. He could go back to JFK. 
JFK was faced with this problem. He had a problem with unemployment. 
And what did he do? He did something that was not intuitive to 
Democrats. He actually lowered taxes. He did a tax reduction just the 
same way Ronald Reagan did.

And the effect of that tax reduction was to allow the small 
businessman to have more money to invest in their business. And guess 
what happens? When small businessmen have the liquidity and they have 
more money to invest in their business, they add a wing on the 
building, they add a new machine, a new process, a new invention, a new 
idea. And freedom works. What happens is, you create jobs, and the 
economy takes off.

Now here are some numbers that--to my good friend, Congressman 
Thompson from Pennsylvania, you weren't here at the time. But when I 
came in at the beginning of 2001, people don't realize--just because 
the Federal Government doesn't like to balance their budget--they don't 
like to realize how much these recessions and a bad economy hurts the 
Federal Government in terms of taxation, in terms of revenue.

And what was going on was, you know, the liberals were crying and 
moaning about how much money we spent on tax reduction, and Oh, we're 
giving the rich guys a deal, and you're reducing taxes, and that's 
going to cost the Federal Government all its revenue, because they 
calculated that if you lower taxes, then you're going to collect less 
revenue. That was the logic. It seems intuitive when you just look at 
it superficially. But what you found was--and this was an interesting 
number--as we reduce taxes, the businessmen, the owners of small 
businesses, then created more jobs because they had money to spend. 
They created more jobs, and the economy turns around. What happens is, 
we take in more revenue than we had before.

But let's just say that, even in the most pessimistic sense, what 
surprised me was this: If you added the cost of--supposedly the cost of 
the Bush tax cuts, and you added the cost of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan together, that total dollar value was less than what we had 
lost by the recession and what the recession had cost the Federal 
Government in revenue. You see this, gentleman, in Pennsylvania--and we 
do in Missouri, all the other States around the Union, particularly 
that have balanced budget amendments--and that is, when the recession 
comes, boy, the States are hurting. They have to really scramble 
because their revenues drop dramatically when we enter a recession. But 
that's also true of the Federal Government. Our revenues drop 
tremendously.

So this formula of excessive government spending is the exact wrong 
thing to do. And what it does is, it turns a recession into a 
depression. That's why these charts are going the way they are. This 
should be a warning sign that what we should not be doing is a whole 
lot more taxing on small business, yet it seems that every time you 
turn around, here comes another tax. We've got to hit somebody, so why 
not tax?

Let's take a look at just one other thing, and this will be something 
I would like to get your impression on because Pennsylvania is a good 
industrial State. You've got a lot of jobs, a lot of good hardworking 
people there. It's kind of a theoretical question. But does the 
government really create jobs? You know, on the surface, it seems like 
if the government takes the money and hires somebody to build a 
building or something, it seems like they have created a job, because 
somebody's got to build the building, and they took some money, and 
they paid somebody, and the somebody did something.

So can the government really create jobs? What we find is that you've 
got to be careful. I just wanted you to talk about that a little bit, 
if you would like to, gentleman.