# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `c5a2897c9c1a8465261ae4a5fe03f315`
`Mr. LYNCH — 25 February 2010`

---


Mr. LYNCH. Madam Chair, I actually rise to support my colleague's 
amendment.

As the co-chairman of the Task Force on Terrorist Financing and 
Proliferation, I, too, am well aware that having an effective strategy 
on targeting the sources of terrorists in financing their operations is 
a very important part of our strategy.

This straightforward amendment offered by my friend, Mr. Castle of 
Delaware, simply restates the basic requirement that the President, 
through the Treasury Department, report to Congress on the current 
status of U.S. efforts to combat terrorism financing. This reporting 
requirement is not new; in fact, it was mandated in the Intelligence 
Reform and Terrorist Prevention Act of 2004. A report was due out in 
2005, but here today it has yet to be submitted.

I've had an opportunity, as co-chair of the task force, to spend a 
lot of time with our Treasury employees, very brave and courageous 
Treasury and State Department employees, in Afghanistan and Pakistan 
and Jordan and the Maghreb, North Africa; and they're doing wonderful 
and courageous work. However, that much being said, Congress still 
retains its oversight responsibility; and without this report we are 
not able to be certain, I think, that we have an accurate picture of 
the entire antiterrorist financing protocol and we are not fully 
informed as to whether or not we are operating as effectively as we 
could be. Only by understanding where we currently stand--what our 
strengths are and, indeed, what our weaknesses are--can we ensure that 
the best possible strategy for cutting out terrorist financing is 
ultimately accomplished.

Again, I want to thank Congressman Castle, the gentleman from 
Delaware, for his support of this amendment, and I urge my colleagues 
to support it.

Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.