---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `c5a95ecdb77c100394269009d663cd68`
`Mr. DORGAN — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, that particular issue was the provision of 
water to the military bases in Iraq. We discovered the nonpotable water 
that was sent to the bases for showering, shaving, brushing their teeth 
was twice as contaminated as raw water from the Euphrates River because 
the contractor was not doing its job and not testing the water.

Well, I will not go on. I could go on at great length talking about 
the unbelievable waste. But what I do want to say is this: In recent 
months, what we have discovered is that in the county of Iraq they are 
amassing a very substantial amount of money. At the moment, we believe 
it is $50 billion and expected to grow to $79 billion in budget surplus 
in their bank accounts by the end of this year.

It seems to me from an infrastructure standpoint it is time--long 
past the time, in fact--for Iraqis, who have money in the bank--and a 
lot of it--to begin providing their own needs and infrastructure and 
investment. It is interesting to me and somewhat depressing, I would 
say, that in this year we are building somewhere close to 950 water 
projects in the country of Iraq. Let me say that again: about 950 water 
projects in the country of Iraq--with American taxpayers' money at the 
same time the President has recommended that we cut $1 billion out of 
water project investment in this country. It does not make much sense 
to me.

Now, here is what I propose. There are three accounts for which we 
have appropriated American taxpayers' dollars in which a substantial 
amount of that is as yet unspent and, in fact, a substantial amount 
unobligated. I believe when we have some billions of dollars that have 
previously been appropriated but are unobligated, that at this point--
given the fact that Iraq has substantial surpluses and we have 
substantial deficits, given the fact that we have spent somewhere now 
over two-thirds of a trillion dollars in the pursuit of the war in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, and so much of it has been infrastructure investment 
in addition to replenishment of the military accounts--I believe it is 
time for us to take at least a baby step and say: Do you know what. 
With respect to that which has been appropriated but is yet 
unobligated, it is time to ask the Iraqis to pay for the cost of this 
with their surplus that sits in a Federal Reserve bank.

Now, let me provide some evidence of all of this.

The New York Times of August 6, that is last month:




 Soaring oil prices will leave the Iraqi government with a 


 cumulative budget surplus of as much as $79 billion by year's 


 end, according to an American federal oversight agency. But 


 Iraq has spent only a minute fraction of that on 


 reconstruction costs, which are now largely borne by the 


 United States.


Does this make sense? Does anybody think this makes sense? We are 
deep in debt. They have massive cash reserves they are building every 
single day by pulling up 2 million barrels of oil and selling it on the 
market, and we are told we should keep paying for these costs? It does 
not make much sense to me.

A Government Accountability Office report to Congress from last 
month:




 [From 2005 to 2007], the Iraqi government was unable to 


 spend all the funds it budgeted, especially for investment 


 activities.


I am not talking about the surplus now. The surplus is that which is 
over the amount of money the Iraqi Government was going to spend. They 
could not spend the amount of money they decided to spend, and yet they 
have accumulated large surpluses beyond that.




 Significant amounts of unspent money from the 2006 and 2007 


 Iraqi budgets remain available for further infrastructure 


 investment by the Government of Iraq.


That is from the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction 
Report to us dated July 30.

Iraq Deputy Prime Minister Salih said, as noted in the special 
inspector general's report to Congress on July 30:




 Iraq does not need financial assistance.


''Iraq does not need financial assistance.''

This is just another example of that which I have held 17 hearings 
on. This is an April 30, 2006, article:




 A $243 million program led by the United States Army Corps 


 of Engineers to build 150 health care clinics in Iraq has in 


 some cases produced little more than empty shells of 


 crumbling concrete and shattered bricks cemented together 


 into uneven walls. . . .


This is a picture of a man named Judge Al Radhi. Judge Al Radhi was 
selected by us, by the Coalition Provisional Authority, by Mr. Bremer, 
to be the Commissioner of Public Integrity in Iraq. He found $18 
billion of graft and corruption. He found examples where we 
appropriated money for Iraq to buy airplanes, warships, and tanks, and 
there are no airplanes, warships, and tanks purchased with that money. 
The money is gone, but the equipment does not exist. By the way, one of 
the Ministers from the Government is now living in a plush place 
overseas, and the money apparently is in a Swiss bank. This man, by the 
way, was not even supported by our own State Department. Eventually, 
the Iraqi Government wanted to get rid of him, and they did. A 
substantial number of the people who worked for him were assassinated. 
They tried to kill him a couple of times. He came. He had the courage 
to come and testify before a committee


hearing that I requested before the Senate Appropriations Committee.


He said $18 billion was taken--most of it American money. He talked 
about the Ministers who took it and where they are now and the tanks 
and ships and planes that were supposed to have been purchased with our 
money that did not exist. The money is gone. The equipment does not 
exist.

Well, Mr. President, that is a long way of saying that, obviously, I 
am impatient about all of these issues, having held a lot of hearings 
on all this. My colleague, Senator Levin, has spoken of this issue 
often, recently, and going back some long while on the subject of who 
should bear these costs.

If the Iraqi Government has substantial amounts of money in bank 
accounts in surplus--$50 billion now and $75, $79 billion by the end of 
the year--should they not bear the cost of some of their own 
reconstruction rather than continue to ask--after 5 long years--the 
United States, which is deep in debt, to have to bear this cost and 
bear the burden? The answer clearly is yes. We ought to ask Iraq to do 
more.

Now, I am going to offer an amendment. I am not asking us to take a 
giant step. But let's at least take a baby step in the right direction, 
a reasonable step toward common sense, to say: Do you know what. We are 
off-track in fiscal policy. We have an unbelievable mess, and it is 
time to start taking a look at some of this spending and using a deep 
reservoir of common sense on this issue. At this point in time it is 
reasonable for us to say if the county of Iraq is selling 2 million 
barrels of oil a day, amassing very large amounts of surplus in their 
treasury, we ought to be relieved of the burden of using American money 
to build infrastructure in Iraq that could easily, and should be, built 
with Iraqi money.

It is not the case of us abandoning the Iraqi Government. But it is 
the case of saying we ought to expect them to do for their own, which 
they can. Again, I just refer to the comment that was made by the 
Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq, who said:




 Iraq does not need financial assistance.


That ought to be an invitation, finally, at long last, for us to use 
some common sense in the way we begin to address these issues.

There are appropriated funds that are as yet unspent and unobligated. 
It seems to me appropriate for us at this point to begin to look at 
finding ways to decide that those funds, rather than being spent and 
burdening the American taxpayer, should be covered by the surpluses 
that exist in bank accounts with the name of the county of Iraq on the 
account.

Mr. President, I intend to work with my colleagues on the amendment I 
will offer. But I did want to describe the reason for it today. I 
appreciate very much the time offered to me by the chairman and ranking 
member.