---
---

# GREAT AMERICANS
## `c5bc4d0ad7ff69797994f500aec28e03`
`Mr. HUNTER — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I'm ready to give 
him more time with that wonderful introduction, one that I don't 
deserve. But I thank the gentleman.

I asked Mr. King to let me take a little time from his time tonight 
to talk about a couple of wonderful individuals. The first person I 
would like to mention is, of course, a lady who has been a wonderful 
representative from my office for many years in Imperial County, which 
was a big part of my congressional district for many years, and that's 
Carole Starr. And Carole Starr, when I got my congressional district 
moved out to Imperial County from San Diego County and went literally 
all the way from the Pacific Ocean to the Colorado River to Arizona, 
taking in the entire Mexican-California border, I found that I had a 
brand new constituency. It's a lot like the gentleman's from Iowa.

I had a large farming constituency, a community in Imperial County 
with people of great character and people with lots of issues that were 
vastly different than the issues of folks who live in San Diego, but 
also people with a wonderful sense of patriotism. In that big valley, 
Imperial Valley, we had the Naval Air Facility where the Blue Angels 
train in the wintertime, and where we now have one of the best training 
grounds of any location in the United States. We're adjacent to the big 
Chocolate Mountain Gunnery Range, and an airplane or a group coming 
from any part of the United States to train can get up there and train 
365 days a year in that good desert air.

We also have that wonderful farming constituency, probably the most 
productive land in the world, acre-for-acre, under irrigation from the 
Colorado River. It's a place where we have lots of people with great 
character. And communities like Brawley and El Centro and Calexico and 
Imperial and lots of other wonderful communities in Imperial County.

Running that entire county for our office was a wonderful lady named 
Carole Starr. I lost the Valley a few years ago, Imperial Valley, in 
redistricting, but Carole Starr was such a fantastic person, and today 
is quite ill, she's under the weather right now and is home resting in 
Imperial County with a very difficult ailment. But I just thought it 
would be important to take the floor and talk about Carole for a minute 
because she was such a big part of our operation in Imperial County and 
such a wonderful leader in that county.



You know, I had a pretty full office in San Diego County and usually 
seven or eight folks there in the office. Carole Starr ran the Imperial 
County office all by herself, and whether you were a person of means in 
Imperial County, or if you just hitchhiked in and just came in off of 
the freeway off-ramp, you could walk into our congressional office in 
Imperial Valley Airport in Imperial and knock on that door, and Carole 
Starr would greet with you with a smile and say, ''How can I be of 
service to you?''

And Carole weathered all these very difficult issues that we had, 
from the carnal bunt disease that took down our green crop one year, to 
the myriad problems with the Colorado River, the desalinization plant 
there at Yuma, the ongoing water struggles that always engulfed 
California politics, and of course, all of the day-to-day work that you 
find in any congressional office where you have folks that need to get 
that Social Security check or make sure that they get that particular 
veterans' service or have some help with the IRS.



Anybody could walk in Carole Starr's door, and they would be greeted 
with great professionalism, a warm smile, and a ''How can I help you'' 
attitude, and I always called Carole Starr the ''Star of the Valley.''

And you know, over the years, Mr. Speaker, when I would visit 
Imperial Valley with my family, and especially my two boys, Duncan and 
Sam, Sam started out when we got Imperial County. Really, he had just 
been born. He was a brand new baby, and over the years, he grew, and 
one of the things that we did many times when we were in Imperial 
Valley was we would always match up Carole, who stood about five three, 
with Sam. And Carole always wanted to see how fast he was growing and 
try to estimate when he would surpass her height.

I know one time, back when Dick Cheney came to Imperial County to 
work with me on some of the desert issues, and Carole Starr would 
always do a back-to-back with my son Sam to see how much he had grown 
over the last month or so. And on that occasion--and that was about, 
oh, I don't know, about 1992 or 1994--in fact, my son Sam Hunter at 
that point surpassed Carole Starr in height, and of course, he's been 
growing ever since. He's now about six two.

But Carole Starr was just a warm, wonderful person who had a 
trademark of directness and honesty and good will. And today, she lies 
quite stricken by a very severe ailment, and I just hope that God will 
hold her in the palm of his hand and take care of her and give comfort 
to her family because Carole Starr represented the very best of our 
outreach to our community.

And I know every Member of this body has several dimensions to their 
service. One dimension is what we do here on the House floor and what 
we do with respect to legislation and bills and the administration, 
whether it's Democrat or Republican. But the other dimension is how we 
relate to our constituents in our district, and just like the gentleman 
from Iowa, we all have about 700,000 folks in our district. And some of 
them have real pressing problems, and in some cases, we are the last 
resort for those constituents who have been to Federal agencies and 
have been turned down or stiff-armed or have no other options, and they 
come to us.

And sometimes we're able to help them, but we're only able to help 
them when we have great, wonderful people serving us in our district 
offices, and Carole Starr, who ran the entire Imperial County--and I 
called her the ''Star of the Desert'' because she truly was one of 
those people with a great, great heart and great professionalism.

Mr. Speaker, I'd also like to mention a couple of other individuals 
who are very important to me, and I know we've got lots of people 
retiring this year. We've got a lot of folks that have served here for 
many years. I just want to mention a couple of people, Jimmy Saxton and 
Terry Everett, two great personal friends and two great servants of 
this country on the House Armed Services Committee are, in fact, 
retiring.

You know, Jimmy Saxton came in, I believe it was in 1982 when he came 
into office, and I remember he replaced Ed Forsythe. In fact, when he 
went in to get the obligatory picture taken with then-President Ronald 
Reagan when he was a candidate for Congress, Ed Forsythe had passed 
away. And he was that well-known Congressman who had a butch haircut, 
and he wore a bow tie and was quite well-known on Capitol Hill.

And when Jimmy Saxton walked up to Ronald Reagan and said I'm running 
for Ed Forsythe's seat, Ronald Reagan, not having read the Washington 
Post all that much, said ''Go get him,'' and of course, Jimmy Saxton 
said, ''I can't do that, he's a decedent, and I'm running for the open 
seat.''

But Jimmy Saxton started a career in which he represented his Third 
District in New Jersey so ably, and he worked on environmental matters. 
He worked on local issues, and he protected those important military 
bases and gave them their best shot at surviving base closure, which he 
did very effectively, I might add, and he helped to bring the New 
Jersey back to New Jersey, that great battleship.

But I think Jimmy's most important work was done in the Armed 
Services Committee, in that committee and on the House floor. He 
chaired that very important Subcommittee on Terrorism. He traveled 
around the world. Every time you found two Green Berets or Navy SEALs 
or Army Rangers, Jimmy Saxton was there talking to them, learning what 
they needed, learning about operations, and then making a difference 
when we marked up the Defense bill.

And Jimmy Saxton will be sorely missed. He's now the ranking member 
on the Air and Land Forces Subcommittee that makes important decisions. 
To Chairman Abercrombie, he's the ranking member, and he of course is 
still the Jimmy Saxton of great diligence who puts in lots of hours, 
working these important issues.

And I'm going to miss Jimmy Saxton. He's one of those great public 
servants who gives so much more to this country than he gets, and he 
likes it that way.

And he's got a little bit of a back ailment right now. I think that's 
because he was probably the only guy in the history of New Jersey 
athletics who was about a 5-foot-9 shot-putter, held the State shot put 
record as a high schooler, weighing a whopping 160 pounds. And maybe 
Jimmy Saxton started out at six two or six three, but right now he's 
got a little bit of an ailing back because of that great prowess that 
he had with the shot put.

Jimmy Saxton is just a great, wonderful person, and he's helped to 
make the Special Operations that is now so important to war fighting 
and especially important to the war on terror, to make our Special 
Operations effective and to make it not only a leading command in many 
of the theaters, a command that is to be supported by the combatant 
commanders in those particular theaters, but also a supporting force 
when it's necessary.

And the way the Special Operations has laminated and integrated and 
worked with the line units in our war-fighting theaters has been a real 
part of the success of the American operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
A lot of that was due to Jimmy Saxton. He is a guy who can look at an 
issue, without becoming parochial and without becoming polarized, get 
all the information and try to make a wise decision, using that great 
judgment.

And so I'm going to miss Jimmy Saxton, and more than that, I think 
this is country going to miss him.

You know, the other guy I'd like to talk about just briefly is Terry 
Everett. Here's a guy who came from a working background, went to work 
for a newspaper, was a writer and editor and, finally, a publisher and 
an owner of a little string of newspapers in Alabama and then ran for 
Congress and got elected. And Terry Everett is another one of those 
guys who, like Jimmy Saxton, has gone right to the heart of national 
security.

And as the chairman of the Strategic Subcommittee, and also a member 
of the Armed Services Committee who's on the Intelligence Committee, he 
has a unique understanding of the importance of space assets and what 
we have to do with space assets to maintain our economy and our 
security. And there's probably very few people, if anybody else, in the 
Congress who understands space as well as Terry Everett.

Terry Everett's not a guy you will find making speeches. He's always 
the guy with the shortest remarks at the press conference when he 
attends a press conference. But when you close the doors, when you're 
working on the Intel Committee or the Armed Services Committee, or a 
combination of issues that affect both those committees, he's one of 
the hardest working guys that you will ever see.

It's guys like Terry Everett that make this country's security 
apparatus run so well. They don't put out a lot of press releases, but 
they put out a lot of hard work.

And also, Terry's got that great sense of being able to work with 
people, gain their trust, find out what the issues are, and then work 
to resolve those issues. That's so important when you work with lots of 
intelligence officers, when you work with the Special Operations 
Command, when you work with the space command, and you have to not only 
do that but you've got to serve the people back home.

And Terry also, incidentally, is a master woodworker. I remember I 
was in his little woodworking studio there at his house in Alabama, and 
I was going to ask Terry if I could work on


some cabinets in his woodworking studio. And he said sure, and I looked 
down and there were some spots of blood on the floor. I said, ''What's 
that?'' He said, ''Well, that's just where I cut my hand kind of badly 
with that machine over there.'' He said, ''I leave that blood there 
just to remind me to be careful.'' I haven't completed my woodworking 
course with Terry Everett, but I look forward to that.

So, Mr. Speaker, those are a couple of great individuals who have 
really made their mark in this House, and they're going to be leaving 
us. We're sorry to see them go.

And incidentally, another guy who's done a great job on this 
committee, Rob Andrews from New Jersey, also. Great, great, wonderful 
individual, often was really a center of bipartisan cooperation on 
important issues. And you know, we'd be sometimes polarizing on the 
Armed Services Committee, with a Democrat position and Republican 
position. Most of the time we're bipartisan, but then we'd start to 
polarize. We'd all kind of wait to listen to Rob Andrews because he 
would look at the issue on the merits. And sometimes he'd come down on 
one side and sometimes he'd come down on the other, but you knew that 
his position was always a result of reason and was not necessarily a 
result of looking over and kind of counting the votes and trying to 
figure out where his team was going or where the other team was going.

We need folks like that in these difficult, partisan times to bring 
us together, find that common ground and move the country forward. And 
I always thought Rob was the very representative of that style that is 
so important to the success of this House.

So, Mr. Speaker, thanks for letting me take this time. It's always 
fun to come down and take a big bite out of somebody else's time, and I 
want to thank the gentleman from Iowa for letting me take some of his 
minutes here. I really appreciate it.

And the gentleman from Iowa, incidentally, is a very wonderful friend 
and a great colleague and a guy who really has been working this energy 
issue with great energy and was a wonderful host to those of us who 
spent our time in Iowa in that Presidential race, including those of us 
like myself who had rather short-lived campaigns. The gentleman from 
Iowa was always there, always gracious, always willing to put a group 
together, and helped to create that great forum that is Iowa politics. 
I want to thank the gentleman.

And I want to thank him, also, for his great help on the border 
fence, a very important issue. And he helped to push this bill that we 
finally got passed in 2006. We got a mandate to build 854 miles of 
double-border fence, got watered down a little bit by the other body, 
but we're still constructing. And we've got projects now in Arizona, 
New Mexico, Texas, and California. And the gentleman did a lot of work 
to make sure that happens.

So I want to thank him.