---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2009
## `c5cec72092a32220dc14cdcca52bb937`
`Ms. SUTTON — 14 May 2009`

---


Ms. SUTTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me the 
time and for his leadership. Today we consider the last war 
supplemental providing funding for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
However, I am deeply


concerned that this bill does not have an exit strategy for military 
operations in Afghanistan. Out of fairness to our brave soldiers, we 
cannot have an open-ended strategy. And I support the bill introduced 
by Representative Jim McGovern to require one.

This bill does have some provisions in it that I support. Since 
October of 2001, approximately 160,000 soldiers have been subject to 
stop-loss orders, serving on involuntary extended tours of duty.

Last June, I introduced the Stop-Loss Compensation Act to ensure that 
all our soldiers affected by the policy would be properly compensated. 
And last fall we took the first step toward fulfilling our duty to 
these brave soldiers by including stop-loss compensation for fiscal 
year 2009 in the continuing resolution. But today I am proud that we 
will extend the $500-a-month payments to all 160,000 soldiers that have 
been affected by stop-loss since 2001.

And, Mr. Speaker, on the home front, our firefighters who answer the 
call of duty in communities throughout this country are often the first 
on the scene and the last to leave. Because of the current recession, a 
lot of communities, including the community of Elyria in my district, 
are being forced to lay off firefighters, resulting in staffing levels 
that are too low.

I am proud to say that we have worked on language to include in this 
bill that will allow SAFER grants to be used to rehire and retain much-
needed firefighters. The Elyria Fire Department has already informed me 
that with this change, they plan to apply for a SAFER grant to 
reinstate the 10 firefighters who were laid off last month.

This bill will help us ensure that stop-loss payments for those who 
protect us overseas will be properly given and to ensure the adequate 
staffing for those who protect us at home.