---
---

# SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 4--EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON  IRAQ
## `c5f4fce2ef049c418a7f02fa30d0b76d`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, let me first say I am pleased and honored 
to be here with Senator Warner and Senator Collins and Senator Nelson. 
It was about a year or so ago that Senator Levin and Senator Warner led 
a CODEL of Senators into Iraq and Afghanistan. I had the great fortune 
of traveling with both Senator Warner and Senator Levin on that CODEL. 
I learned a tremendous amount from them in terms of what it is they had 
seen in Iraq and Afghanistan, the observations they made about where we 
were on the levels of violence in Iraq. I came away from that CODEL 
with them feeling as if they truly had the best interests of America at 
heart. As they have sponsored these resolutions today, what they are 
acting out here is in the best fashion of what a Senator should do, and 
that is trying to do the best for our country.

Let me say, first of all, with respect to the resolution that was 
heard earlier today in the Foreign Relations Committee, sponsored by 
Senator Levin and Senator Biden and Senator Hagel, I very much 
appreciate their leadership and thinking and the passion they brought 
to the debate and to this issue.

When I sat down and compared the resolution considered in the Foreign 
Relations Committee to the resolution that is now being introduced by 
Senator Warner and other colleagues, I thought there were a great 
number of similarities between the two resolutions.

Let me just comment about my own involvement and give part of my 
rationale for becoming an original sponsor of this resolution. First 
and foremost, I think what this country needs today more than anything 
else is a sense of unity. I think we have had a great deal of 
divisiveness in this country over the last 6 years. I think in the long 
run, when one looks 10, 20, 30, 40 years down the road at these very 
difficult times that are very challenging to our country--very 
challenging to our men and women in uniform and the other men and women 
of America--we will be judged as to whether we in this Congress were 
able to unify a direction in Iraq that ultimately was a successful 
direction in Iraq.

I have called for a new direction in Iraq because I believe we need 
that to get us to success there. I don't believe we can get to success 
in Iraq if we have a divided country in terms of how we move forward.

With respect to the resolution that is before us, in my own 
conversations with the President and with members of his administration 
in the past, I have told them that, in my view, with all due respect to 
our Commander in Chief, we need to move forward in a new direction.

When I returned from Iraq and Afghanistan with the Levin-Warner 
codel, one of the things I told the President we needed to do was to 
enhance our diplomatic efforts in the region; that the countries in the 
area have as much, if not more, at stake than the United States. I saw 
them doing very little.

Today, I see Saudi Arabia, with all its wealth, doing very little to 
help in the reconstruction of Iraq. The same thing could be said about 
Kuwait and many of the neighboring countries. That effort has to be 
enhanced because they simply, in my judgment, are not doing their part 
to contribute to a successful outcome in that region.

I have also spoken to the President and members of his administration 
about the importance of the effort of reconstruction and making sure 
that there are other countries besides the United States putting their 
shoulder to the wheel on the reconstruction efforts that are underway 
in Iraq.

The way I see this debate unfolding is that we essentially have the 
plan of the President, which I call plan A. His plan is that we do a 
lot of what we have been doing but, in addition, that we move forward 
and add an additional 21,500 troops to the war effort in Iraq. That 
would be what I call plan A. There is another plan out there, plan B, 
from some Members of Congress and others that say we ought to bring our 
troops home and bring our troops home right away; that we ought to 
engage in an immediate withdrawal from Iraq and from that region. My 
own view of that plan, plan B, is that is not a good plan either. At 
the end of the day, no matter what criticisms we make about the 
original decision to invade Iraq, about the way the war has been 
mishandled, the fact is we are in Iraq today; there is a mess in Iraq 
and in the Middle East. So the question for me becomes: How do we as 
the United States of America, working in the Senate, working in the 
House of Representatives, working with the President, how do we put 
Humpty-Dumpty together again? It seems to me that Humpty-Dumpty has 
fallen off the wall, and it is up to us to try to figure out, in some 
united way, under difficult circumstances, how to move forward together 
to create the unity that will allow us to succeed in Iraq.

When I look at the possibility of plan B, which is a precipitous 
withdrawal from Iraq, it seems to me that will create tremendous 
dangers not only to the Middle East but to the long-term interests of 
the United States. I, for one, want us very much to succeed in Iraq 
and, because I want to succeed, I want to see whether we can create a 
kind of unity on how we move forward.

I think this resolution introduced by the senior Senator from 
Virginia, the Senator from Nebraska, and the Senator from Maine is a 
good direction for us to go in. I want to point out what I consider to 
be four central points of this resolution which, in my view, are also 
reflected in the Biden-Levin-Hagel resolution. The first of those 
points is that there is a disagreement with the President's decision to 
move forward with a surge of 21,500 more troops. I think both 
resolutions say that equally and clearly. Why, in this resolution, is 
that conclusion reached? Why was it reached in the other resolution 
heard in the Foreign Relations Committee?


In my view, it is because of what our military commanders have said. 
General Abizaid said it a few weeks ago, in November. He said an 
increase in troops was not the way to go because it sends the wrong 
signal about the ultimate responsibility to quell the sectarian 
violence in Iraq. It is not the right way to go because when you look 
at what happened with the surges we have had over the last 6, 7 months 
in Iraq, they themselves did not work. When operations going forward 
started in June, there was a sense that it might quell some of the 
sectarian violence going on. It didn't work. We came back in August and 
did another operation going forward. It did not work.

The Iraq bipartisan study commission, chaired by former Secretary 
Baker and Lee Hamilton, found, in fact, that those surges created an 
escalation of violence by 43 percent during that time period. In a 
matter of 6 months we saw a 43-percent escalation of violence there. 
Regarding putting more troops in, it seems we have the laboratory of 
experience where it hasn't worked in the past, and there is nothing I 
have seen that indicates that moving forward in that direction will 
work at this time. I agree with the resolution and making a statement 
that we disagree with the President's decision moving forward in that 
regard.

As to the second part of this resolution, also reflected in the 
alternative resolution in the Foreign Relations Committee, I think 
there is unanimity of opinion. I bet you that we can get 100 Senators 
to vote for the position that the Iraqi Government needs to assume 
responsibility for a functioning government that will provide security


to the Iraqi nation and to the people of Iraq.

When Senator Warner and I visited Iraq with Senator Levin, I still 
remember meeting with the Iraqi Ministers and with our own forces 
responsible for helping with the training of the Iraqi police. Mr. 
President, 2006 was supposed to be the year of the police in Iraq. This 
is the year where the Iraqi security was supposed to be taken to the 
point where they could move forward and assume the responsibility for 
their own security. Yet that handoff hasn't occurred and the sectarian 
violence has continued to increase.

I very much agree with the spirit of both resolutions that says if we 
are going to move forward and be successful on this issue, it is the 
Iraqi Government and people who need to move forward and assume 
responsibility for their security.

The third thing in this resolution that I think is important is that 
we contemplate that there is going to be some continuing involvement of 
the United States in Iraq, without limitation. Nobody knows for how 
long. But our efforts to engage in counterterrorism in that area will 
be a continuing and important role of the United States of America. Our 
efforts to attempt to restore the territorial integrity of Iraq and to 
stop the weapons flowing into Iraq from Iran and Syria are important 
measures that I believe the U.S. military can address. I agree with 
those aspects of the resolution as well.

Finally, as I said earlier in my comments, at the end of the day, 
this is not a United States of America problem alone. When one looks at 
the Gulf States and other countries in that area, such as Egypt, there 
is a huge problem that belongs to them as well. We have our hands on 
the tar baby as the United States of America. They, too, as countries 
have a huge stake in the success of Iraq and also have to get their 
hands on the tar baby. I believe the resolution put forward by Senator 
Levin and my other colleagues is a step in the right direction in that 
it creates a framework for how we ought to be moving forward in Iraq.

In conclusion, again, I say how much I respect the senior Senator 
from Virginia. I remember well the work that we did just a year or so 
ago in the so-called Gang of 14. I see that Senator Nelson and Senator 
Collins and Senator Warner are back again trying to pull the Members of 
this body together on what is a very contentious issue. I wish them 
well, and I am delighted to be part of the effort.

I yield the floor.