---
---

# HONORING THE WORK OF THE 451ST CIVIL AFFAIRS BATTALION
## `c602c127f1537649e8386b1349ef35b1`
`Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas — 4 June 2009`

---


Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute 
and honor to the 451st Civil Affairs Battalion out of Pasadena, Texas, 
and welcome them home from their most recent deployment in Afghanistan. 
While they returned last fall, this Saturday, June 6, will be their 
Welcome Home Ceremony, and I look forward to attending to thank them 
personally for their service to our country.

As a civil affairs unit, the 451st was broken up into smaller groups 
across Afghanistan. Over the July 4, 2008 break I led a ''Texas'' 
Congressional Delegation visit to Afghanistan with Congressmen Michael 
McCaul, Henry Cuellar, and myself. We visited several of the forward 
operating bases, or FOBs, where members of the 451st were stationed 
with other units. Because they were so spread out across the country, 
we were only able to visit a few members of the 451st, but being at the 
FOBs gave us the opportunity to see how primitive areas of Afghanistan 
can be, and what an impact the work of the 451st made.

When deployed, whether in Afghanistan during their most recent 
deployment or in their previous deployment to Iraq, the 451st Civil 
Affairs Battalion serves as a liaison between the military and the host 
community to better serve their needs and direct aid, supplies, and 
expertise. While stationed in Afghanistan, the 451st worked with the 
Afghan government and international humanitarian organizations to 
rebuild infrastructure and restore stability in areas devastated by war 
or natural disasters. The teams also worked with representatives from 
U.S. government agencies such as the State and Agriculture departments 
and the U.S. Agency for International Development.

As President Obama refocuses our efforts on Afghanistan, the 451st 
helped lay the groundwork for bringing security and stability to that 
country by building trust and relationships among the Afghan 
population, and I am proud we can say the unit is from Pasadena in 
Texas's 29th Congressional District. After dedicated service to their 
country, the members of the battalion have returned home. I have the 
honor of joining with their friends, family, and community in welcoming 
them this Saturday, June 6.
