# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `c60e69e1748f708174ea166368abd4e1`
`Mr. LATTA — 24 June 2009`

---


Mr. LATTA. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the TRICARE Continuity of Coverage 
for National Guard and Reserve Families Act of 2009, of which I'm a 
cosponsor and which was amended into the National Defense Authorization 
Act.

Members of our National Guard and Reserves are eligible for TRICARE 
health insurance during their service and after the age of 60 but not 
during the time in between, the time in between when they retire until 
the age of 60, being referred to as being in the ''gray area. ''

Specifically, ''gray area'' retirees are Reserve component retirees 
under the age of 60 with more than 20 years of faithful and honorable 
service who have qualified for retirement at age 60.

The legislation fills in that gray area to ensure that these men and 
women have the opportunity to purchase TRICARE Standard health care 
coverage during that time and provides access to the care they deserve. 
This legislation is important because currently around 50 percent of 
those serving in Iraq and Afghanistan are Reservists and National 
Guard. And this option for purchasing TRICARE Standard will serve as an 
incentive for those Guardsmen and Reservists to continue to serve.

I thank the Armed Services Committee, the chairman, and the ranking 
member for including this important legislation in the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010.