---
---

# FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008
## `c610961fd69bce5b4adddf1e99843cf8`
`Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts — 8 May 2008`

---


Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
might consume.

Mr. Speaker, I want to begin by thanking Mr. Frank. In the 30 years 
that I've known him, I've yet to meet anybody who has done a better job 
of mastering the most arcane detail of complicated housing policy. In 
fact, in some measure, we're here today because of the energy that he's 
brought to the task at hand.

Mr. Speaker, I also rise today in support of this housing assistance 
tax package which has been reported by the Ways and Means Committee. I 
want to thank Chairman Rangel for his leadership on this very important 
national issue.

There is little doubt that the sagging housing industry, now at 
historic lows, has been a drag on our national economy. This 
legislation would stimulate that industry and help families who have 
been caught up in this struggling economy.

This legislation provides tax credits for first-time homebuyers, and 
it boosts credits for construction of affordable housing. It allows 
families to deduct property taxes who couldn't do so before.



It increases mortgage revenue bonds and it allows the States to 
refinance troubled subprime loans.

This assistance is targeted to those who need it most. It will also 
help bring economic stability to our communities. And these provisions 
are revenue neutral, I emphasize ''revenue neutral,'' using a provision 
from the President's own budget to pay for much of the cost.

Mr. Speaker, this bill has been endorsed by the Home Builders, the 
Realtors and State Housing Administrators. It passed with the support 
of 12 Republican members of the Ways and Means Committee, including my 
friend and the distinguished ranking member, Mr. McCrery. It is broadly 
supported, it's bipartisan in nature, and I am proud to bring it to 
this House today.

There are but two changes to our amendment. One is a package of 
technical improvements from the Financial Services Committee to better 
coordinate the various housing tax and HUD programs. The other is--and 
I hope that everybody will listen to this suggestion--a provision 
approved by the Veterans Affairs Committee to extend from 90 days to 1 
year the protection against foreclosure for servicemembers returning 
from active duty. I can't imagine that there is a voice in this body 
who would not be supportive of that initiative, the idea that in 
Afghanistan and/or in Iraq, that a servicemember who is doing all 
that's asked of him or her every day would find themselves facing 
mortgage foreclosure because of their military service.

As chairman of the Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee, again I 
stand in strong support of the legislation that's before us today. It 
includes a number of improvements to the affordable housing program.

Our subcommittee considered these provisions last summer. And at the 
urging of housing officials, developers, and advocates for low-income 
families, they have all been included in the Ways and Means amendment 
that we consider today. I urge its adoption.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.