---
---

# ENHANCED PARTNERSHIP WITH PAKISTAN ACT OF 2009
## `c62615d033a131997ac6eb9411319c1b`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 30 September 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I rise in strong support of S. 1707, the Enhanced Partnership With 
Pakistan Act of 2009.



The text before us is the result of negotiations between the House 
Foreign Affairs and the Senate Foreign Relations Committees with 
substantial input from the Armed Services Committees and other 
committees of interest as well as the Departments of State and Defense.

Last week, the consensus text was introduced as a new bill, which 
passed the Senate by unanimous consent on September 24. While the 
Senate may have felt it appropriate to rush the bill through the 
process, many of our colleagues and I feel that a bill of this 
magnitude both in terms of its policy impact and the financial cost 
should have been considered under regular order, affording the 
opportunity for robust discussion, rather than being added to the 
suspension calendar.

Nevertheless, our focus is and must be on providing our civilian and 
military personnel the necessary resources and authorities to succeed 
in implementing a U.S. strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The bill 
before us addresses half of that equation: Pakistan.

Like its predecessor, it attempts to focus more U.S. resources and 
attention to rebuilding and making more professional the civilian 
institutions in Pakistan by authorizing $1.5 billion annually in 
nonmilitary assistance through fiscal year 2014.

Reminiscent of the House Republican substitute to the House version 
of this bill, which passed in June, the new text requires, before any 
economic assistance to Pakistan can be released, that the 
administration submit a Pakistan Assistance Strategy Report, including 
a description of the principal objectives of U.S. assistance, a 
detailed spending plan, and a plan for program monitoring. It further 
stipulates that no more than half the assistance may


be released until the Congress receives a certification from the 
administration that this significant expenditure of taxpayer dollars is 
materially contributing to our multifaceted goals related to Pakistan. 
If need be, these limitations are subject to a national interest 
waiver.

Perhaps the most significant changes in the text relate to security 
assistance. As Members will recall, the version considered by the House 
in June prompted a letter from Secretary of Defense Gates and Admiral 
Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and an associated letter 
from General Petraeus, the head of U.S. Central Command, objecting to 
the degree of conditionality and limitations on security assistance to 
Pakistan which they felt would unduly constrain their efforts given the 
fluid and the dynamic environment that exists in Pakistan. I'm pleased 
to note, however, that Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen write that 
they now feel that the revised text ''addresses the key concerns'' that 
they had raised in their April 28, 2009, letter.

Specifically, Mr. Speaker, in section 202 the Department of Defense 
concerns with inflexibility, being overspecific, and conditionality 
with respect to funding for the International Military Education and 
Training and the Foreign Military Financing have been addressed through 
the use of ''such sums'' instead of specific numbers and ''a sense of 
Congress'' language instead of the binding percentage limitations.

In section 203, DOD concerns about inflexibility, conditionality, and 
potential counterproductive effects of certain limitations on security 
assistance have been addressed with more balanced language on 
nonproliferation issues as well as counterterrorism. Issues relating to 
the F-16 program of Pakistan have also been addressed.

In section 204, DOD concerns about the consistency of language 
authorizing the Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capabilities Fund with the 
fiscal year 2009 Supplemental and the State/DOD agreement on transfer 
of funds, these issues have been addressed. The language is now 
consistent with that bill and prior understanding.

In section 205, DOD concerns about inflexibility and conditionality 
with respect to a requirement for civilian control of certain 
assistance have been addressed through better language and strong dual 
key waiver authority for Secretary of State and Defense.

I thank all of the authorities for making these changes. I thank Mr. 
Berman for his flexibility.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.