---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `c62bfb0dd1eb040e714db1e34fac7095`
`Mrs. DRAKE — 12 July 2007`

---


Mrs. DRAKE. A March 2007 Los Angeles Times editorial posed the 
question: ''Do we really need a General Pelosi? Too many lives are at 
stake to allow Members of Congress to play the role of Eisenhower or 
Lincoln.''

How unfortunate that less than a month after the fifth and final 
brigade of this surge effort has arrived in Iraq we sit here once again 
prepared to put bad politics in front of sound policy and undercut that 
mission, putting the lives of our troops, our coalition partners, and 
millions of Iraqis at risk.

Once again, the leadership of this institution wants to play general, 
so it chooses to circumvent the committee process to rush a hastily 
written piece of legislation to the House floor, one that has no chance 
of becoming law.


And so the question that I and many Americans have is: Why?

You can find the answer in today's Washington Times. According to 
this body's majority leader, we are here because ''if we don't do 
anything, these groups,'' meaning MoveOn and affiliates, ''will feel 
like we haven't done anything.''

So that's it. We are here to appease MoveOn.org. Where is the policy? 
Where is the plan? Are we to believe that this bill will bring an end 
to violence in Iraq? Are we to believe that our withdrawal will make 
our Nation or the world any safer? Thus, politics replaces policy. We 
are a Nation at war against Islamic terrorists who have no intention of 
giving up the fight. We must defend this Nation. We cannot afford to 
play politics. This legislation carries no plan for securing Iraq or 
the Middle East, only politics.

Mr. Speaker, we have authorized our military to execute this surge 
and to report to us in September on its status. Why should we cut the 
rug out from under them now? Our troops will not give up on us; let's 
not give up on them. I urge rejection of this resolution.