# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `c62f5586eaf711cedefa5293c40244c7`
`Ms. KAPTUR — 22 March 2007`

---


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman, the fine chairman of 
our Appropriations Committee, and say he would know that because he 
also is featured in the same magazine.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this first counteroffensive 
to the Bush administration's reckless approach to the global war on 
terrorism that has yielded an Iraqi civil war, over 3,200 U.S. dead, 
nearly 25,000 injuries, the evaporation of the coalition of the 
willing, tens of thousands of dead Iraqis, growing terrorism, hatred of 
America across the Islamic world, and shock and dismay among America's 
closest democratic allies globally.

The Bush administration has no answers. In fact, their budgets for 
this war reveal how lost at sea they are. Every single year they have 
asked for more in emergency add-ons than they planned to spend in the 
base budget bill itself.

Yet our brave troops fight on to hold the military edge. And this 
bill helps us fight harder for them by not asking them to bear the full 
burden of this war, because it sets a timetable for progress and 
requires the President to meet benchmarks he, himself, has set.

Our vote today funds our troops but, importantly, signals that 
victory means one-third military and two-thirds diplomacy and good 
governance and sets a timetable to get there, not


just militarily, but strategically and diplomatically.

If they knew what they were doing, these expenditures would have been 
built into the base budget, not afterthoughts. Look how out of touch 
they are with what was required: FY 2001 (Emergency Supplemental); 
$13.9 billion; FY 2002 (Supplemental): $3.4 billion; FY 2002 
(Supplemental): $14.1 billion; FY 2003 (Supplemental): $66.0 billion; 
FY 2004 (Supplemental): $86.1 billion; FY 2005 (Supplemental): $79.0 
billion; FY 2006 (Supp): $69.3 billion.

Additionally, there is the critical money appropriated by Congress 
that the Administration did not even think to ask for: FY 2005 Defense 
Appropriations Act: $25.7 billion; FY 2006 Defense Appropriations Act: 
$50 billion; FY 2007 Defense Appropriations Act: $70 billion.

Despite Congress voting all the funding that was requested, and even 
adding some additional where necessary, how is that our soldiers across 
the theatre don't have the right equipment? Just today, I received a 
call from an uncle of a Marine about to be deployed to Anbar Province:

''His Kevlar vest isn't the right size, he has no visor to properly 
sync with his laser-guided weapon. The Marines are having to pay for 
supplies themselves like fire retardant gloves, duct tape, 550 cord, 
oil lubricants for the weapons, not enough boots, two sets of uniforms 
rather than the five they should be issued, and they are too big.''

Our vote today funds our troops. But importantly signals that victory 
means /1/3/ military and /2/3/ diplomacy and good governance and sets a 
timetable to get there, not just militarily but strategically and 
diplomatically.

It falls to the Democrats to pick up the pieces of a failed foreign 
policy. And that is exactly what we are doing with this vote. No one 
here is operating under the illusion that we are presented with good 
choices. Importantly, this vote funds the troops we have in theatre. 
Although this bill holds the hope of redeploying our troops more 
effectively no later than a year from now, it continues to impose 
almost the entire burden of the mission in Iraq on our military. 
Meanwhile, U.S. policy is exacerbating terrorism and begetting violence 
that could spill over into Jordan, Turkey, Bahrain, Kuwait, Pakistan, 
Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia--all while the Afghan war is becoming more 
challenging.

Whatever happened to the coalition of the willing?

Where are the neighbors of Iraq?

Where are the diplomats to address the Israel-Palestinian standoff?

In Egypt, 70 percent of the public unfavorably views the United 
States. In Jordan, U.S. favorability has fallen to 15 percent. In Saudi 
Arabia, from where the majority--9-11 terrorists emerged, the U.S. is 
disliked by 76 percent of it citizens. Gallup polls tell us why: 
America is viewed as not on the side of rising popular expectations for 
a more democratic way of life. The United States is viewed as a 
promiscuous culture in moral decay. Abu Ghraib affirmed them in their 
views.

Granted, no single vote here will quickly repair the damage to our 
nation's prestige, mend the broken hearts, or put back together the 
broken lives of thousands of American and Iraqi families.

No single vote will invigorate Iraq's neighbors to promote regional 
stability.

No single vote will win the war on terrorism.

No single vote will free America from her dangerous dependency on 
imported oil from dictatorships.

America faces a strategic challenge much larger than Iraq. It 
requires aligning America on the side of democratic dreams of 
underprivileged people, not just the super-rich, in the vast 
undemocratic places where terrorists are being spawned. The Bush 
Administration's proclivity to support the aristocrats of the world at 
the expense of everyone else is raining havoc down on our world as Big 
Oil lines up to pump out Iraq's oil--Exxon Mobil, Conoco Phillips, 
Chevron Texaco, even foreign companies as Total, Royal Dutch Shell, and 
BP.

I am not entirely comfortable with this vote.

I imagine no Member is entirely comfortable with spending another 
$100 billion, on top of $379 billion, on the war in Iraq, a war that 
has now lasted longer than World Wars I and II combined.

In my congressional district in Northern Ohio, communities are 
struggling to revive an unresponsive economy. Families are having 
trouble making ends meet.

In Ohio, we desperately need new roads and bridges and sewers. We 
need health care and education. But the Bush Administration is obsessed 
with Iraq. Billions of dollars for Iraq--pennies for Ohio. We are 
shortchanging our citizens and our children in the name of a failed 
policy.

This vote, however, marks the beginning of the end of the Bush 
Administration's colossal foreign policy debacle.

Our vote today will ensure a beginning to an end of this failed 
foreign policy that decouples our military from a failed foreign 
policy, of the immense drain on our purse, an end to the injuries to, 
and deaths of, our brave soldiers. And an end to the growing disrespect 
of our great country in every corner of the world.

I have opposed this war from the beginning. I said on this same floor 
in October 2002 that war against Iraq ''will not make America safer, 
because unilateral military action without broad international support 
will isolate America further. It will thrust us into the position of 
becoming a common enemy in a volatile region where anti-western 
terrorism grows with each passing year. It will not make the region 
more stable either. The Bush approach will yield more terrorism and 
instability, not less.''

How I wish that I could say I was wrong in 2002.

But what I feared most has come to pass.

In December 2005, General Abizaid said: ''The battle against Al Qaeda 
will not be primarily military. It will be political, economic and 
ideological. If you look at the geography of Al Qaeda, there is not a 
place to put a military solution.''

Since returning from Iraq, I have repeated what Generals Petraeus and 
Odierno said to us: ''Victory is one-third military, two-thirds 
diplomacy and good governance.'' America has focused all of our efforts 
on our military campaign, while the Commander-in-Chief has failed to 
support our soldiers with diplomatic and political efforts to wrap 
around their operations. Instead, these valiant men and women fall 
victim to a Commander-In-Chief who has not only bungled the war on 
terrorism, but utterly failed in his role as Diplomat-In-Chief for our 
nation. He is isolating America. Why should our soldiers bear the heavy 
burden of winning when the good governance piece is completely absent?

President Bush refuses to listen, refuses to change course. His 
obstinate attitude is shocking.

I am voting for this supplemental precisely because it turns up the 
pressure on President Bush and forces him to account for his disastrous 
strategy. The status quo is not an option.

This war must end. Although this emergency supplemental spending bill 
is not a perfect solution to this vast problem, the legislation points 
the way to a long-overdue course correction.

It is important to note: it does so without endangering the 
courageous and patriotic soldiers serving us in the Middle East. It is 
an exquisite response to the false choices the Bush Administration 
specializes in offering to us.