---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `c64595abff7d9e1c1f92df4e15f995b2`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, what I came to the floor to talk about 
is Osama bin Laden. None of us will ever forget--no one in this country 
will ever forget--the shock and the horror we felt, 7 years ago 
tomorrow, when we realized that a group of terrorist murderers had 
taken 3,000 American lives, taken down two of our monumental 
skyscrapers, and taken a chunk of our military headquarters at the same 
time, as well as downed a plane in the fields of Pennsylvania.

I know this is true for every American. It is seared into our hearts 
as well as in our mind. I know it specifically by virtue of the 
hundreds of New Jersyans who were lost on that fateful day.

Before long we learned the name of the organization that plotted and 
executed this plot. They are called al-Qaida. Although he had already 
been a deadly force before that fateful day, each and every American 
would soon learn the name of the evil mastermind behind this carnage, 
Osama bin Laden.

As a country, we were unified in our grief and unified in our resolve 
to find bin Laden dead or alive, as our President said. There was no 
reason to think we would not succeed. We live in the greatest country 
on the Earth, with the greatest military in the world and the greatest 
resolve of any people. We are the country that taught man to fly, that 
has helped save the world from marauding dictators, and put a human 
being on the Moon. If we set our mind to capturing or killing the 
people responsible for this mass murder, then we were going to get the 
job done.

Here is the thing. As we speak here today, 7 years have passed since 
those terrorist attacks, and where is Osama bin Laden? Where is the man 
who killed 3,000 of our fellow Americans? Where is our Nation's No. 1 
enemy? He was allowed to get off the hook. He was allowed to rebuild 
his terrorist organization to pre-9/11 strength, as has been noted by 
testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, of which I am 
a member. It has been noted in various official reports. He was allowed 
to establish his own safe zone along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.

I do not think any American would disagree that the words ''Osama bin 
Laden'' and ''safe'' should never be uttered in the same sentence. Why 
is he living in a safe zone? Why was he allowed to rebuild his 
terrorist organization? Why has he not suffered for the consequences of 
his mass murder?

I would say the answer to that question is because President Bush--
who was so steadfast in his call to go after bin Laden and smoke him 
out of his hole, with the backing of a unified country in the days 
after September 11, when I was squarely with the President in that 
regard--decided not to commit the military force necessary to finish 
the job when bin Laden and al-Qaida were cornered in the mountains of 
Afghanistan. He decided to outsource the fighting to warlords in 
Afghanistan who took our money, put it in their pockets, and let bin 
Laden get away. He decided that the war against those who actually 
attacked us was not worth the absolute commitment of the most powerful, 
sophisticated, technologically advanced military in the world.

Instead, he committed the full force of the United States military to 
invade and police another country, Iraq, which had no part in the 
murder of 3,000 Americans.

As bad as that sounds, the reality is even worse than that. It was 
not just about the White House losing its focus. They misled the 
American people so they could start a new war. They assumed Afghanistan 
would stabilize itself and maybe bin Laden would turn up one day. So 
let's add up the running tally of these ill-fated decisions of 
President Bush: a forgotten war against the real terrorist threat in 
Afghanistan along the Afghan-Pakistan border, plus misleading the 
American people into a war of choice--not a war of necessity, where no 
one from al-Qaida or bin Laden was engaged; a stunning disaster of a 
war that had no connection to September 11--increased anger in the 
Middle East; squandered international goodwill; becoming entrenched as 
Iraq's military police force; a military stretched thin, less able to 
respond to the real challenges of this country where Afghanistan and 
Pakistan's border are.

I was there earlier in August with the distinguished majority leader. 
I heard what our generals said. They said they needed 10,000 troops 
minimally--now; not next year, now--to face the challenges they are 
having in the resurgence of the Taliban and the new tactics they have 
acquired from al-Qaida, an al-Qaida that is rushing over that border, 
plus $600 billion in U.S. taxpayers' money, easily going well over $1 
trillion, to secure and rebuild another country that we were told--I 
sat at those hearings--we were told, when we asked how much is this 
engagement going to cost: Oh, we were told, not more than $50 billion 
max.

Madam President, $600 billion later, $12 billion a month and rising--
by the way, not only were we told it is not $50 billion, we were told 
Iraq's oil would pay for all of it. What we have seen is $600 billion 
of the taxpayers' money, later, rising clearly in excess of $1 trillion 
and Iraq having a surplus in its budget. We are running deficits, Iraq 
has a surplus in its budget of anywhere between $50 and $70 billion, 
and yet we still continue to pay for their reconstruction. I was there 
this past January.

Of course, beyond all of this, beyond all of this, the most 
important, incalculable loss--over 4,100 American service men and women 
who have been lost in Iraq.

What does this all add up to? It adds up, in my view, to less 
security here at home, one terrorist mastermind responsible for the 
deaths of 3,000 dead Americans, plotting and planning yet again in his 
very own safe zone to pre-September 11 strength.

That is a huge challenge. I recently returned from a trip to 
Afghanistan with the distinguished majority leader and several of our 
colleagues. Our troops and their commanders are doing


a terrific job with what they have been given, as they always do.

But the message from everything I saw when I was there and heard from 
the people we always say let's listen to--the commanders in the field--
well, I listened to General McKiernan, who is the commanding general 
not only of our troops but also the NATO forces there. I listened to 
General Schlosser, who is in the midst of that part of Afghanistan that 
is in the fight. They said clearly they needed extra troops.

I heard the President's decision: They will not get those troops, 
even though they need them until sometime next year. In the interim, 
the fight intensifies, the risks grow greater, and our challenges grow 
more difficult.

Afghanistan and Pakistan are the epicenter, the epicenter of the 
threat to our Nation. Things are not going to get better in that region 
or with our security here at home until we commit our focus to doing 
away with a resurgent Taliban and a resurgent al-Qaida once and for 
all.

Our focus must be on what are called the Federally Administered 
Tribal Areas, or FATA, those lawless areas along the Afghanistan-
Pakistan border, our major challenges.

The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said it himself in June, so 
let me quote him because this is the ultimate authority advising the 
President. He said:




 I believe fundamentally if the United States is going to 


 get hit, it's going to come out of the planning that 


 leadership in the FATA is generating, their planning and 


 direction.


It could not be said more powerfully by the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff and more clearly: That is where the threat is coming 
from. That is where we need to focus if we are to secure our Nation.

Our colleague, Senator McCain, who is now the standard bearer for his 
party, has expressed his desire to keep our troops entrenched in Iraq 
even beyond what the Iraqis want and even beyond what President Bush 
has been calling for.

This does not help us with Afghanistan, this does not help us with 
Osama bin Laden, this does not help us target the threat of the Nation 
that is most vital. So I hope that after the solemn memorials and 
heartfelt remembrances we have tomorrow, on the seventh anniversary of 
September 11, after we continue to mourn and after we pray for those we 
have lost, when our thoughts turn again to preventing a repeat of 
September 11, making sure that ''never again'' means never again, I 
hope we can rededicate ourselves, as we did in the weeks following the 
attacks, to going after those responsible for this mass murder and 
ridding ourselves of that threat once and for all.

Let us not only follow bin Laden to the gates of hell, let us follow 
bin Laden to the cave in which he is in, in that region along the 
Afghan-Pakistan border.

It is never too late. It is never too late to bring the masterminds 
of September 11 to justice, to diminish the real challenge to our 
security, and to ultimately achieve what I truly believe is in the 
national security interest of the United States.

I yield the floor.