---
---

# None
## `c64d743d6ce5ee969b7cd4e962efe6bf`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 8 March 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Speaker, 3,188 servicemen and -women have died 
serving in Iraq, and 371 have given their lives fighting in 
Afghanistan.

We owe these brave individuals and their families a debt of gratitude 
that can never fully be repaid. It is our responsibility to honor the 
ultimate sacrifice that our men and women in uniform have made while 
serving their country.

We often invoke their sacrifices in general, but seldom take the time 
to thank them individually.

Last year I led a bipartisan group of Members of Congress in 
recognizing the individual members of our Armed Forces that have made 
the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq and Afghanistan by reading the names and 
rank of each servicemember who had fallen in the line of duty so that 
they never will be forgotten and they will always be remembered in the 
Congressional Record.

So far we have read just over 2,400 names on the floor of the 
people's House. Tonight and on future nights we will continue to 
complete this tribute with the names of our most recent fallen fellow 
Americans.

If I can, in the words of Franklin Delano Roosevelt: ''Each of these 
heroes stands in the unbroken line of patriots who have dared to die 
that freedom might live and grow and increase in its blessings.''

God bless and keep each of the brave Americans whose memory we honor 
tonight:

Private First Class George Anthony Lutz, II; Private Jonathan R. 
Pfender; Staff Sergeant Ayman A. Taha; Sergeant Marcelino Ronald 
Corniel; Staff Sergeant Christopher J. Vanderhorn; Sergeant First Class 
Jason Lee Bishop; Major William F. Hecker III; Captain Christopher P. 
Petty; Sergeant Stephen J. White; Sergeant Johnny J. Peralez Jr.; 
Sergeant Jason Lopez-Reyes; Specialist Ryan D. Walker; Lance Corporal 
Ryan S. McCurdy; Lance Corporal Jason T. Little; First Lieutenant Jaime 
L. Campbell; Captain Clayton Lee Adamkavicius; Specialist Eric D. King; 
Private First Class Jacob H. Allcott; Private Michael E. Bouthot; 
Private First Class Jason D. Hasenauer; Corporal Stephen R. Bixler; 
Staff Sergeant Kevin P. Jessen; Private First Class Ricky Salas Jr.; 
Gunnery Sergeant Justin R. Martone; Gunnery Sergeant John D. Fry; 
Private First Class Amy A. Duerksen; Lance Corporal Kristen K. Marino; 
Staff Sergeant Joseph R. Ray; Specialist Joshua Lee Hill; Lance 
Corporal Nicholas R. Anderson; Staff Sergeant Brian A. Lewis; Sergeant 
Corey A. Dan; Corporal Nyle Yates III; Specialist Carlos M. Gonzalez; 
Sergeant Amanda N. Pinson; Specialist Antoine J. McKinzie; Staff 
Sergeant Christopher L. Robinson; Staff Sergeant Robert Hernandez; 
Captain Timothy J. Moshier; Sergeant First Class John Thomas Stone; 
Chief Warrant Officer John W. Engeman; Master Sergeant Robert H. West; 
Chief Warrant Officer Jamie D. Weeks; Major Matthew W. Worrel; Lance 
Corporal Jose S. Marin-Dominguez Jr.; Lance Corporal William J. 
Leusink; Private First Class Steven Freund; Lance Corporal Robert G. 
Posivio III; Specialist Michael L. Hermanson; Captain Douglas A. 
DiCenzo; Specialist Robert E. Blair.