---
---

# WORLDWIDE WAR ON TERROR
## `c653e9abae97026d67a2c4af781e0ec6`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 6 February 2007`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, for the last few weeks, a bipartisan 
group of Senators has worked to bring to the floor a resolution 
expressing opposition to the President's proposal to increase American 
troops in Iraq. In an effort to have an honest, thoughtful, and 
productive debate, they put aside their differences, only to be run 
over by partisan politics. I support the bipartisan resolution opposing 
the escalation. I support an honest and open debate on a policy that 
clearly needs to change. But I do not support what I saw take place in 
this Chamber yesterday.

Our soldiers and their families have sacrificed too much to accept 
the political obstructionism that is keeping this body from having a 
debate on a most critical issue. Our troops have given so much, and 
they deserve much more than what they got from the U.S. Senate 
yesterday. The least we can do is to have this debate, and the best we 
can do is to get this policy right for our troops.

I would like to thank those who worked on this resolution: Senators 
Levin and Warner and Senators Biden and Hagel and others. Throughout 
their careers, they have shown how much they care for the men and women 
in uniform. In crafting these resolutions, they showed us that when 
principled individuals from opposing parties care strongly about an 
issue, politics doesn't always have to win out.

Unfortunately, some in this body still don't want to have a debate 
about Iraq. It is long past time to have this debate. The American 
people have called for it, our troops have earned it, and we should be 
big enough to have it.

Over 3,000 American soldiers are dead, more than 20,000 have been 
wounded in combat, over 2,000 have lost their limbs, and more than $350 
billion of taxpayer money has gone to Iraq. Scores of Iraqis are killed 
every day in what has essentially devolved into a civil war.

All across my State, I have heard a strong and clear message from 
Minnesotans: Change the course in Iraq and push for the strategy and 
solutions that will bring our troops home. We need a surge in 
diplomacy, Mr. President, not a surge in troops. It is a message that 
was echoed all across this country from Montana to Minnesota, from 
Pennsylvania to Virginia. Unfortunately, there were those in this 
Chamber yesterday who did not listen to that message, who would prefer 
no debate. This bipartisan resolution expresses the strong opposition 
of this body to the President's decision to stay the course and send an 
additional 21,000 American troops to Iraq. I strongly support this 
bipartisan resolution and implore my colleagues to allow this 
resolution its due course.

The people of Minnesota, like their fellow citizens around the 
country, recognize what is at stake in Iraq. Of the 22,000 troops 
involved in the surge, nearly 3,000 are from Minnesota. As I have 
traveled throughout our State, I have spoken with many families who 
have paid a personal price in this war, and I think of them often.

I think of Claremont Anderson from Hoffman, MN, who would drive 
hundreds of miles to attend public events in the last 2 years. I just 
saw him and his wife Nancy this weekend; they braved 7-degree below-
zero wind chills to come to an event in Glenwood, MN. When I see 
Claremont, any time anyone even talks about the war, he starts to cry. 
That is because his son Stuart, an Army Reserve major, was killed in a 
helicopter crash in Iraq.

I think of Kathleen Wosika from St. Paul, MN. Just last month, her 
son, James Wosika, Jr., was killed while he was patrolling on foot in 
an area near Fallujah. He was a sergeant with the Army National Guard 
1st Brigade, whose current duty will be extended under the President's 
escalation. Sergeant Wosika was the third member of his unit to die 
within a 6-month period. He was the seventh member of the brigade to be 
killed since their deployment last spring.

I also think of Becky Lourey of Kerrick, MN. That is near Duluth. She 
is a mother of 12 and a former State senator. Her son Matt was killed 
when the Army helicopter he was piloting went down north of Baghdad. I 
watched this Gold Star mother, a woman who has adopted eight children, 
comfort her grandchildren, hold her shaking husband, and stand tall for 
hours in a high school gym in Finlayson, MN, where hundreds of people 
came to gather for her son's memorial service.

Claremont Anderson, Kathleen Wosika, and Becky Lourey are parents 
whose children made the ultimate sacrifice in service to their country, 
and they are among the many Minnesotans who told me without apology 
they want to see a change of course in Iraq. They pray others will not 
have to experience their pain.

Although I opposed this war from the beginning, I recognized that 
many did support it. But 4 years later, we are now dealing with a 
dramatically different situation. What we know now about the events and 
facts leading up to this war has changed dramatically. The conditions 
inside Iraq have changed dramatically. Our role there has changed 
dramatically.

Last November, citizens in Minnesota and across the country voted for 
a new direction in Washington. Americans made clear at the ballot box 
they were tired of the politics-as-usual partisan bickering and that 
they wanted a meaningful and bipartisan change of course in Iraq. To 
the country's bewilderment, the President responded with a plan to 
escalate the number of American troops in Iraq. That is not the change 
in course the American people voted for. It is not the change in course 
the Iraq Study Group recommended. It is not the change in course Iraq 
needs to halt its civil war. It is not the change in course our 
military forces deserve.

Distinguished Senators from both sides of the aisle are seeking ways 
for this body to bring about the right kind of change. The bipartisan 
resolution proposes a strategy that recognizes the facts on the ground 
in Iraq. It incorporates many of the recommendations of the Iraq Study 
Group.

For years, we have heard from administration officials, from military


officials, and from the Iraqis themselves that there can be no military 
solution in Iraq. Stability can only be achieved through diplomatic and 
political solutions. This resolution calls on the administration to 
engage other nations in the region to create conditions for the 
compromises between Iraqi Shiites, Sunnis, and Kurds that will be 
necessary for peace. Furthermore, the resolution calls on the 
administration to apply pressures on the Iraqis themselves to stand up 
and take responsibility for their country. By following the 
recommendations of this resolution, the President would send a much 
stronger signal to the Iraqis that we are not going to be staying 
there indefinitely.


As of last Thanksgiving, this war has now lasted longer than World 
War II, and after nearly 4 years of intensive military involvement in 
Iraq, including more than 3,000 American deaths, we have to be focused 
on reducing our troop presence in Iraq instead of putting even more 
American service men and women in harm's way. Haven't we asked our men 
and women to sacrifice enough?

Recently, at the funeral for a fallen soldier, I heard a local priest 
say that our leaders have an obligation to do right by our children 
when we send them to war. He said that our children may be over 6 feet 
tall when we send them to war, but they are still our children. ''If 
the kids we are sending to Iraq are 6 feet tall,'' he said, ''then our 
leaders must be 8 feet tall.'' I would add that if these soldiers are 
willing to stand up and risk their lives for our country, then those of 
us in the Congress must be brave enough to stand up and ask the tough 
questions and push for the tough solutions.

Claremont Anderson, Kathleen Wosika, and Becky Lourey are standing 
tall. The parents I met with this weekend whose kids are supposed to be 
coming home this month but are now staying much longer, they are now 
doing everything to be brave and stand tall. The 400 members of the Air 
Minnesota National Guard whose deployment ceremony I attended Sunday, 
in Duluth, MN, they are standing tall. The teenage brother and sister 
who will see not only their dad but also their mom be deployed in the 
next 2 weeks, those two kids are standing tall. My friend Senator Webb, 
who will speak with us momentarily and whose son is serving bravely, he 
is over there and he is not afraid. He is standing tall. The injured 
soldiers in the VA hospital in Minnesota recovering from traumatic 
brain injuries and in their wheelchairs with their strength and their 
spirit, they too are standing tall.

I would say to my friends across the aisle, by having an honest and 
open debate on this war and on this resolution, we in Congress can also 
and finally stand tall.

Our Constitution says that Congress should be a responsible check and 
balance on Presidential power. Congressional oversight for Iraq policy 
is long overdue. We have seen this bipartisan resolution and bipartisan 
work challenging the President's proposal for an escalation of American 
troop levels in Iraq. Even as Commander In Chief, our President does 
not enjoy unlimited power. On behalf of the public, Members of this 
body have a responsibility to exercise our own constitutional power in 
a fairminded, bipartisan way, to insist on accountability, and to 
demand a change of course. Ultimately, the best way to help our 
soldiers and their families is not only to give them the respect they 
deserve but also to get this policy right.

I hope that my friends across the aisle will see the merits of this 
resolution and the urgency of having an open and honest debate on this 
issue; our troops and their families deserve nothing less.

I thank the Chair.

Mr. President. I yield the floor.