---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `c65f74f616078c965357fc5c83e4ed05`
`Mr. LEVIN — 17 December 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I wish to speak for the few minutes we have 
this afternoon in support of the appropriations bill that is before us, 
the Defense appropriations bill.

Senator McCain and I and other members of the Armed Services 
Committee have spent a lot of time each year authorizing important 
programs to support our troops, protect our troops, and support their 
families in a whole host of ways. Hopefully, it will authorize funds 
that can help us succeed in Afghanistan and Iraq. That bill is now law, 
and in front of us is an appropriations bill that contains most of 
those same provisions--not all but most of the same provisions.

It is critically important that this appropriations bill be passed. 
There are differences in this body and between this body and the House 
of Representatives about the policies that are involved in the war in 
Afghanistan and the war in Iraq. That is normal. That is the way it 
should be. We can have democratic debates inside this great democracy 
of ours. We don't have to agree, and we don't on many of the policies 
involved in these two war efforts. Where I believe this body is 
unanimous is that we are determined to support our troops when they are 
in the field regardless of whether we agree with the particular 
strategy they are supporting or whether we happen to have supported 
their mission.

It has been the tradition of the Congress, once a decision has been 
democratically arrived at to send troops to the field, that we support 
those troops. This appropriations bill has critically important 
provisions in it to support our troops. I believe there is unanimity 
and consensus in this body on those provisions. I will focus on a few 
of those provisions.

We have added significant funds. One example is the so-called Mine 
Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles or MRAP. These are life-and-death 
matters we are talking about. These vehicles are a perfect example of 
that. The faster we can get the advanced MRAPs to the field in 
Afghanistan, the more we can get to the field in Afghanistan, the fewer 
Americans are going to be killed in Afghanistan. So we have funds in 
here--more than actually were requested--to send over 6,600 new MRAP 
vehicles, all-terrain vehicles that can function better there than the 
ones we sent to Iraq. These all-terrain vehicles have been designed and 
developed in record time in order to get them to our troops. We should 
be acting in record time on this appropriations bill, and there are 
many reasons for that. Surely, getting more MRAPs more quickly into the 
field is one of those reasons.

We have an organization called the Joint IED Defeat Organization 
whose sole purpose and mission is to come up with the strategies and 
technologies to defeat these IEDs, these improvised explosive devices 
that are killing our troops. In order to defeat these devices or train 
our troops who are deployed there in how to identify and protect 
themselves against IEDs, we have $1.8 billion in this appropriations 
bill for that organization. They have a laser mission to defeat the 
IEDs. We have to get this money to them.

This bill needs to be signed. The President has to sign it--and he 
will--so we can get these funds as quickly as possible to our troops. 
We need to adopt this appropriations bill.

We have pay raises and health programs in the bill. We add $1.3 
billion more than the President requested for the Defense Health 
Program. This covers shortfalls in private sector care, increases funds 
for medical research, including what is called TBI, which are the brain 
injuries, as well as PTSD, which has so afflicted our troops in these 
wars. We add additional funds for those programs. The quicker the bill 
is signed, the faster those funds get appropriated and spent, the 
better off our wounded warriors who suffer from TBI and from 
psychological health problems are going to be.

In Afghanistan now, one of the key issues is going to be whether we 
can get the Afghan troops trained quickly enough, supported quickly 
enough, given the equipment they need so they, hopefully earlier rather 
than later, can join with us, partner with us, and take responsibility 
for their own security. Regardless of people's differences over the 
policies and strategies in Afghanistan, I believe there is a consensus 
in this body--no matter what the vote ends up being on the bill, 
whether people vote for the bill or against the bill, I would think all 
of us believe we must quickly provide funds to train, support, and 
sustain the Afghan security forces. We want to fund that effort in this 
bill at $6.6 billion.

Counternarcotics in Afghanistan. We all know the narcotics industry 
in Afghanistan is being used to support the Taliban. We want to 
continue efforts to train Afghan counternarcotics forces and support 
U.S. counternarcotics and interdiction activities in Afghanistan, so 
$300 million in this bill is going to do that.

We have a fund called the Commander's Emergency Response Program or 
CERP. That fund has been used to great advantage. This bill provides 
$1.2 billion for that Commander's Emergency Response Program; $1 
billion of that is for that program in Afghanistan and $200 million of 
the CERP program in Iraq. This represents about twice as much CERP 
funding for Afghanistan as we had in fiscal year 2009.

Those CERP funds are able to provide very quickly support and 
economic development village by village. Our commanders are able, 
without going through a whole lot of red tape, to make relatively small 
investments in things which make a difference, in terms of the security 
of our troops and the betterment of the lives of the Afghans. It has 
had a huge, positive impact in terms of the perception of the Afghan 
community about us, satisfying them that we are there for their 
benefit, not just for our benefit. We are not occupying Afghanistan. 
When we leave Afghanistan, we want to leave Afghanistan in better shape 
than we found it. The CERP funds are a major contribution to that goal.

One of the things we have authorized in the bill, which Senator 
McCain and I and members of the Armed Services Committee have brought 
to this body, was adopted by this body, and signed into law, was the 
authorization to use those CERP funds to help reintegrate, where we 
can, Afghan Taliban fighters into Afghan society--those who will 
renounce violence against the Government of Afghanistan and make a 
commitment to participate in civilian life. We are able to actually 
have the funds that are so essential to make that program work. We do 
not yet have a program in place. That is being worked on as we speak. 
But these funds need to be available to support that program of 
reintegration of Afghans, those low-level Taliban people who are with 
the Taliban not for any ideological reason but because they get some 
pay from the Taliban. Not all the members of the Taliban fall into that 
category. But for the ones who do, this funding becomes critical.

Mr. President, I will only take a few minutes more, but I did want to 
highlight a few additional points that I believe my colleagues should 
know about.

The first area pertains to three initiatives that originated in the 
Defense authorization bill that relate to the continuing fight against 
al-Qaida and associated terrorist organizations.

The bill includes nearly all of the $1.6 billion the administration 
requested for the coalition support fund, which is used to reimburse 
key partner nations, particularly Pakistan, for support provided to the 
United States in Operation Enduring Freedom and Overseas Contingency 
Operations.



It includes $350 million in fiscal year 2010, the full amount 
authorized, for the train and equip program to build the capacity of 
foreign militaries to conduct counterterrorism operations and support 
military or stabilization operations in which the U.S. participates. As 
clarified in the fiscal year 2010 NDAA, this authority can be used to 
build the capacity of ISAF coalition partners to prepare their training 
teams and special operations forces to be available for use in 
Afghanistan.

The bill also provides the full $100 million authorized for the 
authority to transfer funds from DOD to the State Department to support 
State's security and stabilization assistance programs.

The other area pertains to missile defense.

The bill before us provides important funding for ballistic missile 
defense programs. It supports the decisions made by Secretary Gates and 
President Obama to restructure the missile defense program with a 
greater focus on regional missile defense against existing missile 
threats. These changes include the termination of the Multiple Kill 
Vehicle Program and the Kinetic Energy Interceptor Program, and cancel 
procurement of additional airborne laser aircraft. This defense 
appropriations act also supports the decision to cap deployment of the 
ground-based midcourse defense system at 30 operational ground-based 
interceptors in Alaska and California, rather than the 44 previously 
planned for deployment.

The bill supports funding for alternative missile defense systems in 
Europe, to defend against current and future Iranian ballistic 
missiles.

It also includes an additional $57 million, above the budget request 
of $169 million, to procure more standard Missile-3 interceptors for 
our Aegis ballistic missile defense system. This type of interceptor 
will be at the heart of the new missile defense plan for Europe. The 
amendment also provides the full $1.1 billion requested for the 
terminal high altitude area defense, THAAD, system, which is another 
key element of our regional missile defense capabilities.

I believe my 10 minutes is up. I thank my good friend from Arizona, 
Senator McCain, for allowing me to go first. The order of priority was 
that he go immediately after someone speaking on this side. But as 
always, his courtesy shines through to me, and I very much appreciate 
it.

I yield the floor.