# None
## `c671eadaa0cfd3322b1d1202a7bc0af0`
`Mr. FILNER â€” 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. I would yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, we are in the midst of a package of 10 separate pieces 
of legislation that honors our Nation's veterans, our Nation's most 
deserving citizens, appropriately enough, as we prepare to honor them 
on Memorial Day. As we honor our fallen heroes, we cannot forget those 
who need either health or other benefits from our Nation.

That is what these bills do. They extend benefits in a whole range of 
areas: Health care, substance abuse and spina bifida, reimbursement for 
emergency treatment outside the VA facilities, construction of new 
facilities to serve these heroes. We also address our responsibility 
for oversight of the VA by mandating the revision and update of 
administrative policies so that the VA can better serve our veterans.

As you know, Mr. Speaker, we have had many opportunities for 
oversight recently. We have had in a court case the discovery of e-
mails which seem to indicate that our VA management was not being 
totally transparent on the number of suicides, for example, of our 
recent Iraqi veterans. Just last week, another e-mail was discovered 
that indicated that we should not adequately diagnose PTSD, post-
traumatic stress disorder, and instead give these young men and women 
lesser kinds of diagnoses, which would cost us less.

It is unacceptable to the Congress of the United States and to the 
American people that the administration set up to serve our veterans 
would be finding ways to save money and not treating the veterans for 
their needs. We intend to root that kind of attitude out of the VA and 
to make sure that all our veterans, whether they are just coming back 
from Iraq or Afghanistan, or those that served us earlier in Vietnam or 
World War II and Korea and the Persian Gulf War I, to make sure that 
all of their needs are met, and that is what we are committed to and 
that is what these bills on the floor today indicate.

We also address the compensation cost-of-living adjustment that is so 
important to our veterans who base their income on the dependency and 
indemnity compensation. They need an annual increase to cover the cost 
of living, and this bill before us today will assure that.

It is my hope that on this Memorial Day we, as a Nation, remember the 
words of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. A half century ago he said 
''Those who have long enjoyed such privileges as we enjoy forget in 
time that men,'' and he would say, I am sure today, women, ''have died 
to win them.'' President Washington, over 220 years ago, said, ''The 
best guarantee of the morale of our fighting troops is a sense of how 
they are going to be treated when they come home.''

So let us remember these words of Roosevelt, of Washington, as we 
prepare on Memorial Day to recognize and remember those heroes who have 
died in uniform. Our Nation has a proud legacy of appreciation and 
commitment, and we have to make sure that they know that we appreciate 
them and we know that our liberty, which we enjoy today, depended on 
them.

The bills before us today have come from all of our legislative 
subcommittees. Members on both sides of the aisle and all the committee 
worked very hard. I want to thank Chairman Michaud of the Health 
Committee, with his Ranking Member Miller of Florida, I want to thank 
the chair and ranking member of the Subcommittee on Economic 
Opportunity, Ms. Herseth Sandlin of South Dakota, and Mr. Boozman of 
Arkansas, and also the chair and the ranking member of the Disability 
Assistance and Memorial Affairs, the gentleman from New York, Mr. Hall, 
and the gentleman from Colorado, Mr. Lamborn.



We are now looking at H.R. 3681, which would authorize the VA 
Secretary to purchase national media outlets to inform veterans of 
their benefits. You would think we would not have to do such 
legislation, Mr. Speaker, but apparently we do. Over the past 2 years, 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs has conducted several hearings to 
determine how to improve the outreach to our veterans, and while 
various agencies have made tremendous improvement, more needs to be 
done to inform veterans of the entitlements they rightfully deserve and 
how to access those benefits.

Providing our veterans the information they need on television is a 
crucial component that can affect the livelihood of our veterans and 
their dependents. So I ask all of you to join me in supporting H.R. 
3681.

I would reserve the balance of my time.