# COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007
## `c675275f8a90e1dcbd5c9be39465e24e`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. I thank the Senator for his question. I actually became 
interested in the issue of homeless children, foster children many 
years ago when I served in our State legislature and found out, quite 
by accident, that students in our State were being denied access to 
public schools simply because they didn't have an address. I never 
thought about it before. Everybody goes and their mom registers them 
for school and they write their address down and they register and 
start school with a big smile on their face. In my home State many 
years ago, not if you were a homeless student. So I passed legislation 
in our State legislature to make sure that students who did not have an 
address would be allowed access to any school to which they applied.

I followed that throughout my career and met amazing young people who 
have tremendous capabilities who, through circumstances that had 
nothing to do with them, were either homeless or were foster children. 
A young man I worked with a few years ago had been in over 80 foster 
homes from the time he was young until he was 18. Once they turn 18, 
these foster students all of a sudden become independent, and they do 
not have a parent to take them off to college on that first day that is 
so important or to send them a check once in a while to help them with 
their books or even to help them navigate through the paperwork that is 
required when you try to apply for financial aid.

With the help of Senator Kennedy and others on our committee, we put 
provisions in this bill, only a few sentences but very significant, 
helping to simplify the student aid application process for our 
homeless students and to help both the homeless and foster students be 
eligible for higher levels of assistance because they do not have 
anyone to rely on at home once they head off to college.

This is an important investment that will pay off in many ways, I 
believe, in the future, and give some hope to some young people who 
truly, in our country today, deserve it.

On the other issue the Senator from Massachusetts talked about, I, 
similar to many Senators, go home and talk to young men and women who 
are either going off to war in Iraq or Afghanistan or around the globe 
or who have returned recently. I tell you, one of the things they 
constantly struggle with is the issue of paying back their student 
loans. Similar to many young people today, they have gone to college 
maybe for a year or two, maybe graduated with a very high student loan 
they are required to pay back. But they are deployed over to Iraq, 
trying to manage the paperwork of that or pay for it on a military 
salary. It is impossible.

Along with our colleagues on the committee--I see Senator Clinton on 
the floor today too--we put in a provision to make sure that when our 
men and women are serving overseas, they not have to worry about paying 
back student loans. I think that is the least of what we should be 
doing for those men and women we have asked to serve this country.

I thank my colleague from Massachusetts for working with us on these 
two provisions and tell all our colleagues, we have an obligation in 
this country to the next generation. If you talk to anyone who is 
struggling through school today or through college or is a graduate, 
they will tell you the No. 1 worry they have on their mind is paying 
back that student loan.

We want them to be able to go out and get a job and give back to our 
economy, purchase a home, be able to invest in themselves and their 
future. Yet they are worrying about paying back student loans. This is 
a significant step forward, making sure the next generation has what 
this generation had and generations have had before them, and that is 
focusing on hope and opportunity and not on debt and long-term concerns 
about being able to pay that back.

I thank my colleague from Massachusetts and appreciate his work on 
this bill.