---
---

# RESTORING AMERICAN FINANCIAL STABILITY ACT OF 2010
## `c67cfc3844f7d9333597135102c106fe`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 12 May 2010`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Connecticut. I 
am grateful to him for his comments and again grateful for his patience 
and perseverance in getting something done that is meaningful to all 
Americans. Arkansans are clamoring for it, and I know others across the 
Nation are.

The will say about the work of the Agriculture Committee, for all 
Americans who enjoy nutrition, that comes from the hard-working farm 
families across this country who produce the safest, the most abundant, 
and affordable food and fiber. We all have a little bit at stake in 
that Agriculture Committee.

We appreciate so much working with the Senator from Connecticut. 
Chairman Dodd has done a tremendous job.













 Honoring our Armed Forces











Lance Corporal Richard R. Penny


Mr. President, this week, my home State of Arkansas marks a somber


milestone. Since September 11, 2001, 100 service men and women with 
ties to Arkansas have given their life to help defend our freedoms in 
this great country. I rise to honor their ultimate sacrifice on behalf 
of our Nation.

It is also with great sadness that I pay tribute to the family of 
LCpl Richard R. Penny, 21 years of age, of Fayetteville, AR. Lance 
Corporal Penny was killed May 6 while supporting combat operations in 
Helmand Province in Afghanistan, making him our State's 100th service 
man or woman to have given his life to help defend our freedom.

Along with all Arkansans, I am grateful for Lance Corporal Penny's 
service and for the service and sacrifice of all our military 
servicemembers and their families. More than 11,000 Arkansans on Active 
Duty and more than 10,000 Arkansas Reservists have served in Iraq and 
Afghanistan since September 11, 2001. These men and women have shown 
tremendous courage and perseverance through the most difficult of 
times.

My father and both my grandfathers served as infantrymen. They served 
our Nation in uniform and taught me from an early age about the 
sacrifices our troops and their families make to keep our Nation 
free. As neighbors, as Arkansans and as Americans, it is incumbent upon 
us to do everything we can to honor their service and to provide for 
them and their families not only when they are in harm's way but also 
when they return home.


While it is important to honor those who have served our country in 
uniform with words, we must also honor them with our actions. I have 
consistently supported initiatives that expand the benefits our 
servicemembers and veterans have earned and deserve. During these tough 
economic times, it is even more important that we don't shortchange 
these heroes and their families.

That is why I have authored several bills on behalf of Arkansas's 
military servicemembers, veterans, and their families. In doing so, I 
have focused on a number of priorities, including requiring more 
accessible health care for guardsmen and reservists so they can 
maintain the medical readiness required to fulfill their mission and 
also ensuring that future GI benefits for members of the National Guard 
and Reserve keep pace with the national average cost of tuition, and 
allowing beneficiaries of the post-9/11 GI bill to use their GI 
benefits more flexibly to develop skills that are critical to our 
workforce and our economy and their reentrance into the workplace, and 
also addressing inequities in survivor benefits for military families.

With more than 600,000 courageous men and women who have returned 
from combat in Iraq and Afghanistan, and with thousands more on the 
way, mental health care is an issue that also deserves more attention. 
I have visited injured servicemembers at Walter Reed and in Arkansas 
and witnessed firsthand that more and more of our troops are affected 
by service-connected mental health issues, such as traumatic brain 
injury and post-traumatic stress disorder. To address this issue, I 
have introduced legislation to ensure that our troops receive proper 
mental health assessments before and after they enter a conflict zone.

The issue of mental health does not just affect our troops. With more 
National Guard and Reserve from our rural communities serving abroad, 
families have expressed concerns to me about the impact increased 
military deployments have on other children, and particularly their 
children, and whether schools have sufficient resources to meet these 
challenges. To meet these concerns, I have also introduced legislation 
to increase the number of school counselors, school social workers, and 
school psychiatrists and psychologists in high-needs school districts, 
many of which are located in our rural areas all across this great 
Nation.

All of our veterans, from the ''greatest generation'' to Vietnam war 
veterans to the new generation of servicemembers in the Middle East and 
across the globe, all of our veterans have sacrificed greatly on behalf 
of our country. Although the challenges and needs of veterans have 
changed over time, one thing remains constant: It is the responsibility 
of our Nation to provide the tools necessary to care for our country's 
returning servicemembers and honor the commitment our Nation made when 
we sent them into harm's way in the first place.

Our grateful Nation will not forget them when their military service 
is complete. It is the least we can do for those to whom we owe so 
much.

I yield the floor.