# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `c68103296ffb8664f8d16fa32dd780c8`
`Mr. LEAHY — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today the Senate is considering an 
amendment to the Department of Defense bill to address crimes that 
terrorize entire communities. Violent crimes motivated by prejudice and 
hate are tragedies that haunt American history. From the lynchings that 
plagued race relations for more than a century to the well-publicized 
slayings of Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr., in the 1990s, this is 
a story we have heard too often in this country. Unfortunately, in my 
home state of Vermont, there have been two recent attacks that appear 
to have been motivated by the victims' religion or sexual orientation. 
A well-respected State representative in the Vermont Legislature has 
not been immune to threats of violence based solely on his sexual 
orientation.

I am proud to once again be a cosponsor of this legislation. I would 
like to express my appreciation to the Senator from Massachusetts and 
the Senator from Oregon for their work on this. I hope that this time 
Congress will have the courage to pass it. Six years ago, I made this 
bill one of the first major bills to move through the Judiciary 
Committee after I became chairman. It passed the Senate in the 106th 
Congress and again in the 108th Congress, but Republicans in the House 
blocked this important bill each time. In the Democratically led House 
of Representatives, the companion bill this year passed by a wide 
bipartisan margin. So I am hopeful that this time, Democrats and 
Republicans in the Senate will join together finally to enact this 
civil rights measure into law.

This hate crimes legislation improves current law by making it easier 
for Federal authorities to investigate and prosecute crimes based on 
race, color, religion, and national origin. Victims will no longer have 
to be engaged in a narrow range of activities, such as serving as a 
juror, to be protected under Federal law. This bill also focuses the 
attention and resources of the Federal Government on the problem of 
hate crimes committed against people because of their sexual 
orientation, gender, or disability, which is an important and long 
overdue expansion of protection. Finally, this bill provides assistance 
and resources to State, local, and tribal law enforcement to address 
hate crimes.

The crimes targeted in this bill are particularly pernicious crimes 
that affect more than just their victims and their victims' families--
they inspire fear in those who have no connection to the victim other 
than a shared characteristic such as race or sexual orientation. When 
James Byrd, Jr., was dragged behind a pickup truck and killed by bigots 
in Texas in 1998 for no reason other than his race, many African 
Americans throughout our Nation surely felt diminished as citizens. 
When Matthew Shepard was brutally murdered in Wyoming the same year 
because of his sexual orientation, many in the gay and lesbian 
community felt less safe on our streets and in their homes. These 
crimes promote fear and insecurity that are distinct from the reactions 
to other crimes, and we need to take action to enhance their 
prosecution.

All Americans have the right to live, travel and gather where they 
choose. In the past, we have responded as a Nation to deter and to 
punish violent denials of civil rights. We have enacted Federal laws to 
protect the civil rights of all of our citizens for nearly 150 years. 
The Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act continues that 
great and honorable tradition.

This bill will strengthen Federal jurisdiction over hate crimes as a 
backup, but not a substitute, for State and local law enforcement. 
States will still bear primary responsibility for prosecuting most hate 
crimes, which is important to me as a former State prosecutor. In a 
sign that this legislation respects the proper balance between Federal 
and local authority, it has received strong bipartisan support from 
State and local law enforcement organizations across the country.

Moreover, this bill accomplishes a critically important goal--
protecting all of our citizens--without compromising our constitutional 
responsibilities. It is a tool for combating acts and threats of 
violence motivated by hatred and bigotry. But it does not target pure 
speech, however offensive or disagreeable. The Constitution does not 
permit us in Congress to prohibit the expression of an idea simply 
because we disagree with it. As Justice Holmes wrote, the Constitution 
protects not just freedom for the thought and expression we agree with, 
but freedom for the thought that we hate. I am devoted to that 
principle, and I am confident that this bill does not contradict it.

We have been trying for years to pass the Local Law Enforcement Hate 
Crimes Prevention Act. It is appropriate to attach this important 
legislation to the pending Department of Defense authorization bill, as 
we have done twice in recent memory, because this is a pressing issue. 
I hope that we will not see another Republican-led filibuster on what 
should be a bipartisan measure.

Adoption of this amendment will show once again that America values 
tolerance and protects all of its people. I urge the opponents of this 
measure to consider the message it sends when year after year, we are 
prevented from enacting this broadly supported bill. The victims of 
hate deserve better. Let us join together and adopt these provisions 
without further obstruction and delay.











Children's Health Insurance Program


Mr. President, I wish to express again my strong support for the 
reauthorization of the Children's Health Insurance Program. When we 
talk about the work of this Congress, I believe the extension of CHIP 
will stand out as one of the great accomplishments of this body. The 
bill is a clear statement of the priority of the majority in the 
Congress.

In passing this legislation, we state clearly that the health of our 
Nation's children is an issue too important to be dealt with in a 
''business as usual'' fashion. This is a program that represents the 
best of what can happen when Members of both sides of the aisle come 
together to forge a consensus, with Democrats and Republicans working 
together for that consensus.

The outcome is a solid compromise on a vital issue: more health 
insurance coverage for millions of children. The choice is clear. 
Either you support children's health care or you do not. Either it 
deserves to be a high priority on our agenda or it does not. Frankly, 
as a parent, as a grandparent, I don't see this as a choice at all. It 
is a matter of priority. Few issues are as important as caring for our 
children.

Instead of helping more families who are struggling to afford basic 
health care for their children, the President would cut thousands in 
Vermont who have coverage right now. He is failing to lead, so Congress 
again is stepping in to realign our priorities.

If we can find the money to fund the war in Iraq for 41 days, the 
same amount that would pay for 10 million children to have health 
insurance for a whole year, then we can pay for this bill. I have heard 
some argue the bill should be opposed because it raises taxes on 
tobacco--just tobacco. Anyone who opposes this bill on these grounds is 
choosing big tobacco over children's health.

I support this bill because I believe it is a travesty that in the 
richest, most


powerful country in the world, there are more than 47 million people 
without health insurance. It is an absolutely shocking number. It 
represents roughly one in six people who are going without regular 
trips to the doctor and foregoing needed medications and who are forced 
to use the emergency room for care because they have nowhere else to 
turn. These are our friends, our neighbors, and millions of our 
children.

My wife, during the years when she worked as a registered nurse, saw 
these people and realized what happened to them.

The legislation before us will extend and renew health care coverage 
for 10 million children. My own State of Vermont has been a national 
leader in children's health care. Even before the creation of CHIP, we 
knew this was the right thing to do. Because of our early action, 
Vermont has the lowest rates for uninsured children in the country, 
making our State a leader and an example for the rest of the Nation. 
This bill will bring us still closer to the goal of covering all 
children in our State but also to thousands elsewhere.

We are faced with many choices in the Senate. For me, the choice in 
this bill is clear. It is a must-pass bill. It is worthy of our 
support. I urge all my colleagues to stand for the children of this 
country and support this bill, and I urge the President to abandon his 
ill-advised threats and to sign it into law. If we can afford the war 
in Iraq, we can afford to insure our children.