# PAYING TRIBUTE TO COLONEL MICHAEL L. BARTLEY
## `c684bf7f93d7f51d8bd13eb8c2bd1411`
`Mr. PORTER — 3 June 2008`

---


Mr. PORTER. Madam Speaker, it is my distinct pleasure to rise today 
to honor my friend Colonel Michael L. Bartley by entering his name in 
the Congressional Record, the official record of the proceedings and 
debates of the United States Congress since 1873. Today I pay tribute 
to Colonel Bartley for his distinguished service to the United States 
Air Force and his exemplary record as Commander of the 99th Base Wing 
at Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada.

Colonel Bartley has had a long and illustrious career as an airman. 
Having graduated from the United States Air Force Academy in June 1983, 
Colonel Bartley distinguished himself in his early duty assignments as 
an A/OA-10 and F-16 instructor pilot. He also performed duties as a 
weapons officer, flight evaluator, flight commander, assistant 
operations officer, deployment commander, and served as a member of the 
354 TFW Gunsmoke team in 1987.

During Operation Desert Storm, Colonel Bartley flew over 40 combat 
missions over Iraq in the OA-10 and flew 65 combat missions over 
Northern Iraq in the F-16C during Operation Provide Comfort and over 
Southern Iraq during Operation Southern Watch as the Operations Officer 
of the 523rd Fighter Squadron. Following his tenure in the Middle East, 
Colonel Bartley served as Vice Commander of the 35th Fighter Wing at 
Misawa Air Base, Japan and was subsequently assigned to serve as the 
Commander of the 99th Air Base Wing at Nellis.

Over the course of his career as an airman, Colonel Bartley has been 
highly decorated. Colonel Bartley has been awarded the Legion of Merit, 
the Distinguished Flying Cross with Valor, the Meritorious Service 
Medal with 4 oak leaf clusters, the Air Medal with 6 oak leaf clusters, 
the Air Force Commendation Medal, the Air Force Organizational 
Excellence Award and numerous other accolades and awards.

Madam Speaker, I am honored to be able to recognize Colonel Michael 
L. Bartley. His dedication to defending freedom and his exemplary 
record of service illustrate that Colonel Bartley is a true American 
patriot. I thank him for his service, applaud him on all his successes 
and wish him the best in his future endeavors.
