---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND
## `c699fe12e92c357c986c9d604bbbdce4`
`Mr. CARPER — 11 September 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. Madam President, I feel compelled to respond to the 
comments of my colleague and friend from Kentucky. There are hundreds, 
literally hundreds of organizations throughout the country that are 
loosely supportive of the Republican Party, just as there are hundreds 
of organizations in this country that are loosely supportive of the 
Democratic Party. If one of those Republican organizations makes a 
particular charge or assertion, that does not mean that every Member of 
the U.S. Senate or the House, Republican in nature, or the 
administration believes or agrees with that assertion any more than one 
should believe that an assertion--in this case by an advertisement paid 
for by MoveOn.org--is reflective of the views of all of us. It is not. 
I found the advertisement distasteful, disappointing, and, frankly, not 
reflective of the views I hold and I suspect the views that almost 
everybody in the Senate, Democrat or Republican, holds.

I don't know General Petraeus well, but I do know him to be a decent 
and honorable person, a good leader; someone who has given really the 
majority of his life to serve the people of our country, sometimes in 
dangerous and harmful situations; someone who is willing to spend not 
just months but years away, separated from his family, in support of 
our country and serving as he has pledged to do, as he has sworn to do. 
He is someone who, in my own experience with him, is a straight 
shooter. He calls them like he sees them. He gives us the good, the 
bad, and the ugly. He did 2 months ago when several of us were over in 
Iraq and met with him and Ambassador Crocker.

I wish to speak for a moment as a veteran, a Vietnam veteran. My 
friend, Senator Bunning, talked about the question of the lack of 
respect and support our troops receive maybe from those of us on this 
side of the aisle. I couldn't disagree more. I remember what it was 
like 30, 35 years ago when


those of us who served overseas in an even less popular war in 
Southeast Asia, the lack of support we received, not so much from the 
Congress but from the American people. That was then. This is now. I 
think as a nation we learned a lot from the way we treated veterans 
back at the end--during and at the end of the Vietnam war. We have 
vowed not to make that same mistake. There is great support and 
affection for our troops, the men and women who serve in the Army, 
Navy, Air Force and Marines, as great now as I have ever seen it.

While not everybody supports the war this administration has gotten 
us into, we support our troops. We provided money again and again and 
again. The Presiding Officer has led the fight to make sure we not only 
provide our troops with what they need in Iraq or in Afghanistan but to 
make sure the Veterans' Administration has the money it needs to meet 
the needs of our veterans when they come back to us harmed, injured, 
and in some cases maimed for life. I am one of those who come here--and 
I know many others--who come here to work together, and I want us to 
get things done.

General Petraeus, when he has talked to me--and I have heard him 
testify, and he is literally testifying again today on the Senate 
side--what he has said over and over again is there is not going to be 
a military victory, definitive military victory in Iraq as we would 
think of having occurred in other wars we have fought. The victory is 
going to be a political victory, if there is to be one, and my earnest 
hope is that there will be one. In part, what the surge is about is to 
provide a space for the Iraqi political leaders to make some tough 
decisions they have been unwilling--unable to make for the last 2 
years. How are they going to divvy up and share their oil revenue? The 
potential is enormous. How are they going to share power among the 
different factions? What will they give the Baathists, the civilian arm 
of Sadam's regime? What role will they have in terms of helping the 
country go forward? Are they going to have elections? Are they going to 
amend their Constitution, as they promised to do 2 years ago, to 
protect minority rights? Those are things the Iraqis need to do. Those 
are tough decisions they need to make. They have been unwilling to make 
them. We are providing for them, hopefully, a greater calm, a little 
bit less hostility in which they can meet and deliberate and hopefully 
reach some kind of consensus. That is what we are endeavoring to do.


One of the roles for us here in the Congress is we play an oversight 
role, overseeing the administration's conduct of the war after getting 
us into this war. That is appropriate, and that is our constitutional 
responsibility. We also have the responsibility and an opportunity to 
try to put pressure--hopefully in a positive way--on the Iraqi leaders 
to do what they need to do if they are going to have a country. We have 
been very forthright in telling them again and again and again. My hope 
is that they begin to listen. If they do, then all of the sacrifice, 
the lives, the injuries, the money we have spent will not have been in 
vain--will not have been in vain. If they don't take advantage of the 
opportunities they have now and in the months ahead, they will have 
squandered this opportunity because the American people, as generous as 
we are, as supportive as we are of democracies here and around the 
world, we are not going to stand by forever and give up our own lives--
the welcoming back of the dead, to care for those who have been 
maimed--we are not going to do this forever. There is a limited period 
of time.

Back to General Petraeus, basically what he has said--and I heard him 
say it as recently as today--is the Iraqis have an opportunity to save 
their country. We can't do it for them. We can help provide an 
environment where they can make those tough decisions. We are 
endeavoring to do that. We can open the door; they have to walk through 
it. My hope is that they will.

I yield the floor and note the absence of a quorum.