---
---

# SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
## `c69cc6098c201b1172eb0a7931c57846`
`Mr. LUGAR — 7 January 2009`

---


Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, I rise today to offer a resolution 
commemorating several remarkable milestones in the U.S.-Poland 
partnership. This year marks the 90th anniversary of diplomatic 
relations between the United States and Poland, the 50th anniversary of 
the Fulbright Exchange Program with Poland, and the 10th anniversary of 
Poland's accession to NATO.

The U.S.-Polish friendship formally began in 1919 and has endured 
through two world wars, the Cold War, and the emergence of a vibrant 
democracy after the fall of communism. This partnership has been 
bolstered by two unqualified successes of U.S. diplomacy. The Fulbright 
Exchange Program has nurtured the pursuit of higher learning for Polish 
and American students, professors, and researchers, for many decades 
offering Poles a rare window into the opportunities afforded by 
democratic society. Such exchanges invigorated intellectual thought and 
creativity in Poland, Eastern Europe, and the West and helped to hasten 
the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact.

Poland exhibited great energy in undertaking economic, political, and 
military reforms, and the NATO alliance was strengthened by Polish 
membership in 1999. Poland today remains the closest of our allies, 
having contributed great wherewithal to combating global terrorism and 
bringing stability to Afghanistan and Iraq. In recognition of the 
profound successes of the U.S.-Polish alliance, I am pleased to 
introduce this resolution congratulating the Polish people on their 
great accomplishments as a free democracy and expressing our country's 
appreciation for Poland's steadfast partnership.

I am hopeful that my colleagues will join me in supporting this 
important legislation.
