---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `c6a6922e5ce65f8496f60f7fc404e5cb`
`Mr. BYRD — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, nearly 5 months ago, the Congress sent the 
President the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, 
and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act 2007.

Despite the President's signing the measure into law on May 25, 2007, 
I have learned with great disappointment that the Office of Management 
and Budget has yet to release more than $104 million included in this 
legislation by the Congress for the purpose of assisting the FBI in 
combating terrorism.

These were funds that the FBI had asked the OMB to include in the 
supplemental in order to deal with various aspects of homeland security 
such as carrying out the FBI's new responsibility for rendering safe a 
chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear incident in the United 
States. The funds were also requested by the FBI to make advances in 
areas such as DNA and other identification technologies, which offer 
opportunities to positively identify individuals and prevent 
terrorists, criminals, and other ineligible individuals from entering 
the United States, thus better securing our borders.

I call upon the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to 
release these funds for the purposes identified by the FBI. This is a 
dangerous way to waste time. Nearly 5 months have already been wasted. 
These funds should


be put to use for the purposes for which they were appropriated in 
order to better secure the homeland and combat terrorism.