---
---

# CREDIT CARDHOLDERS' BILL OF RIGHTS ACT OF 2009
## `c6a6ec45eb455cd55c46ed60b8753e17`
`Mr. HENSARLING — 30 April 2009`

---


Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Chairman, I was listening carefully to the 
previous speakers. And again, I could not agree with them more in 
sharing their desire to ensure that this is not a problem. No one on 
Active Duty should be worrying about paying for their credit card 
bills. But I do continue to ask the question, is this the single best 
remedy?

Now, I'm not sure that any credit card company in America would be so 
stupid as to go and consciously ping somebody who is fighting for 
freedom in Afghanistan or Iraq. Wait until the local newspaper or local 
television station finds out about that. I would say some PR department 
would be working overtime.

But again, the thing that disturbs me here--and I want to solve the 
problem. Again, I admit, I am not an expert on what resources may be 
available at the Pentagon. I don't know if there couldn't be somehow 
automatic payment through the paycheck. If we need to set up money to 
loan our soldiers to ensure their bills are paid when they are 
overseas, I would be happy to support that.

But in some respects, you are asking credit bureaus to, in some 
respects, deceive creditors because they have information and you are 
telling them you are not allowed to give accurate information. Now, I 
don't want them to act adversely, but the precedent of essentially 
saying that you can now put misleading information into the market 
disturbs me greatly. I just would hope that there would be an 
alternative solution than this particular amendment, again, with the 
noblest of intentions.

I reserve the balance of my time.