---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `c6a93da0a3df6d5953551551ad6f8b88`
`Mr. CRAIG — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. CRAIG. Madam President, we are brought back to the floor again 
this week to continue the debate on Iraq and whether the United States 
should begin to pull our troops out of Iraq. Yet again the majority 
leader has


brought legislation to the floor of the Senate that will set arbitrary 
timelines for U.S. withdrawal, sending a signal to the Iraqi people 
that we are poised to abandon them; while at the same time sending a 
strong message to our enemies that to defeat the United States, all 
they need to do is wait us out. That kind of policy will allow our 
current and future enemies to dictate our foreign policy for us, not 
the other way around.

General Petraeus has now only had weeks to implement his new strategy 
for stabilizing Baghdad. After a unanimous vote of confirmation, the 
majority party now wants to send a signal to General Petraeus that we 
not only have no confidence in his abilities to stabilize key parts of 
Iraq but that we have no faith in our soldiers ability as well. That is 
not a statement I am willing to send to our soldiers in combat. The 
majority would rather see 535 generals leading the way towards 
stability and security in Iraq and the greater Middle East, and I do 
not see that strategy as an effective way to run a war.

I cannot stress enough that our conflict in Iraq does not stop at the 
borders. Iraq is a central country in a very dangerous region of the 
world. Bordered by Iran and Syria, which are both contributing to the 
violence in Iraq, will clearly see a premature U.S. troop withdraw in 
Iraq as a symbol that our resolve is not strong enough to stop their 
ambitions for regional dominance.

A premature withdrawal from Iraq will almost certainly lead to a 
massive humanitarian crisis, which would leave hundreds of thousands of 
Iraqi civilians at the hands of murderous militias. I would ask of my 
colleagues who favor immediate withdrawal from Iraq, are they willing 
to stand idly by as hundreds of thousands of Iraqis are raped, beaten 
and murdered? I would assume the answer would be no, paving the way for 
an even greater peacekeeping force to be deployed to Iraq, and making 
the work to stabilize that country infinitely more difficult.

I think it is important for the American people to know that the 
roadblocks put up in the Senate regarding nonbinding votes on Iraq were 
not put up by the Republican minority. I have stood on this floor on 
more than one occasion debating the war this year. We have had, and 
will continue to have, full debates on the floor of the Senate 
regarding Iraq, but it is up to the majority leader whether those 
debates will be fair debates. I was pleased to see that an amendment 
offered by Senator Gregg will be allowed an up-or-down vote. This 
resolution clearly states that the Congress will not cut off any 
funding for soldiers we send into combat. An overwhelming majority of 
both the House and Senate voted to send these troops into war, and we 
all the responsibility to ensure that any American soldier in harm's 
way will have the full support of their government.

The majority party continuously denies planning or calling for 
defunding this war, and thus the troops, but several Democratic 
Senators and Congressmen have spoken publicly about their desire to 
eliminate funding for our soldiers. That is a very dangerous game to 
play, when Members will allow antiwar politics to convince Members of 
Congress that they should cut off funding for American troops on the 
battlefield.

Now, it is very clear that there is no single military operation that 
can bring stability to Iraq by itself. We need the Iraqi government to 
stand up on its own two feet and lead their country. We need an Iraqi 
economy to be strong and viable on its own in order to give the Iraqi 
people a choice between turning towards insurgent militias and 
terrorist organization, but instead to start new businesses and make 
constructive contributions to their society. However, without stability 
in the capital city, there can be no stable government and there can be 
no economic stability. The reinforcements called for by General 
Petraeus, which will assist in stabilizing Baghdad, are working to 
lower the levels of violence, and will pave the way for economic and 
government stability.

I, like all of my colleagues, want nothing else but to have our 
troops home and out of harm's way. That said, we should not be in such 
a rush to leave Iraq that we leave that country in shambles, creating a 
haven for terrorism and a humanitarian crisis that could rival or 
surpass any we have seen before.

We are at a critical juncture in this war. The American people are 
questioning our policies in Iraq, mistakes have been made over the 
three plus years we have been in Iraq, and I will readily admit that. 
But I do not believe that we are at a point of failure. The majority 
party is frustrated with our progress in Iraq, but I firmly believe 
that Congress micromanaging this war is the most detrimental policy our 
country could pursue. The Congress should not be in the business of 
setting arbitrary withdrawal timetables, setting troop levels, 
threatening funding for our soldiers, or sending messages to our 
soldiers that we have no faith in their mission.

The Senate is yet again going to be voting on a series of binding and 
nonbinding resolutions that will send a strong message to our soldiers, 
the American people, and to our enemies. I hope that my colleagues will 
speak in a loud voice of support to our soldiers; a resolute voice to 
the American people that we will not be defeated by radical insurgents 
and terrorist groups; and a firm voice to our enemies that we will not 
be defeated. Our national security, and that of our allies, is at 
stake, and I will not cast a vote to pull our troops out of Iraq 
prematurely and allow Iraq to become a base of operations for strikes 
against this country.