# IN HONOR OF THE 233RD ANNIVERSARY OF UNITED STATES ARMY
## `c6ad1fefc2c14b63d5672efdc21846fc`
`Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas — 11 June 2008`

---


Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas. Madam Speaker, I rise in recognition of an 
important anniversary--the birthday of the United States Army.

Just shy of 233 years, maybe on a day like today, the people of our 
Nation came together as volunteers to meet the demands of the American 
Revolutionary War. It was on that day, June 14th, 1775 that the United 
States Army was born. I believe that on that same day the spirit of 
democracy was defended and the birth of our freedom was realized.

Since the birth of our Army, we've waged through 24 major engagements 
including the War of 1812, the Mexican-American War, the American Civil 
War, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the Kosovo War and more recently 
Operations Enduring and Iraqi Freedom.

Army's Senior Leadership said it best in their birthday message to 
the force at large. They stated, ''Our sacrifices have preserved our 
way of life, built a better future for others, and led our Nation to 
victory over our enemies. We are the best in the world at what we do, 
and because of our values, our ethos, and our people--especially our 
people. Our Army is hugely resilient, professional, and battle-
hardened.'' I am reassured through the training that I've personally 
watched in my travels to Iraq and at home that the U.S. Army is without 
doubt prepared.

I think about the bravery of our men and women that serve. Not a day 
goes by when I haven't thought about the priceless human investment our 
Nation bears through America's Sons and Daughters. Though I continually 
pray for everyone's safe return, I know that each citizen takes an oath 
that could mean giving the ultimate sacrifice. I am consistently 
reminded from faces I see almost daily of the special qualities of 
spirit, patriotism and courage that exude from the men and women in 
uniform today, just as they did in 1775.

Happy Birthday--U.S. Army!
