---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `c6af78d1b2f96f9345b8f49aa383a3b1`
`Mrs. BOXER — 14 March 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. So, Madam President, we are now debating whether to 
proceed to S.J. Res. 9. I am glad the Chair clarified that. I am here 
to speak briefly, to say I hope our colleagues will say yes and will 
proceed to S.J. Res. 9. I will go into why I think that would be an 
excellent vote for this Chamber to take. I wish to speak briefly as to 
where we are procedurally.

Our Democratic leader, Senator Reid, has presented to the Senate S.J. 
Res. 9. Its purpose is to revise the policy of the United States in 
Iraq, and if ever we needed to revise the policy of the United States 
in Iraq, it is certainly now. In my belief, it was certainly a year ago 
and the year before.

As someone who did not vote to give the President the authorization 
to go to war in the first place, I and a number of my colleagues have 
watched with horror as we have seen take place what we predicted.

We said the President did not consider what would happen if our 
troops were not greeted as liberators and, in fact, were greeted as 
occupiers. We asked questions about the possibility of sectarian 
violence among the Sunni, Shia, and others. We said it was a mistake to 
take our eye off capturing bin Laden and finishing our work in 
Afghanistan, which is crucial. We wondered why the President was doing 
this when the whole world was with us after the tragedy of 9/11. He 
turned around and went after Saddam Hussein, told us he was going to 
get nuclear weapons, told us he was harboring al-Qaida, and I will tell 
you, Madam President, all of that proved to be false.

So he took the country to war on false pretenses, and who has paid 
the price for that? The military families. The dead. These families 
have lost over 3,000 of their nearest and dearest, and they will never, 
ever--ever--be the same.

The wounded are suffering the worst kind of wounds. These are the 
folks who have paid the heavy price and who continue to pay the heavy 
price.

I am proud of Senator Reid and the Democratic leadership. We promised 
the people we would make this our No. 1 priority, and we are. We tried 
to debate Iraq before. The Republicans stopped us. Now we are trying to 
do it again.

We have a resolution I wish to share with you, Madam President. I 
said it was called a Joint Resolution to Revise United States Policy in 
Iraq. It says, and I am going to truncate this:


Whereas, Congress and the American people will continue to support 
and protect the troops who are serving or have served bravely and 
honorably in Iraq; and whereas the circumstances referred to in the 
authorization in 2002 have changed substantially; and whereas U.S. 
troops should not be policing a civil war, and the current conflict in 
Iraq requires principally a political solution; and whereas U.S. policy 
in Iraq must change to emphasize the need for a political solution by 
Iraqi leaders in order to maximize the chance of success and to more 
effectively fight the war on terror; therefore be it resolved that we 
transition this mission away from being in the middle of a civil war 
toward being supportive of the Iraqi troops and training them; that we 
shall begin the phased redeployment of the U.S. Forces from Iraq not 
later than 120 days after enactment of the resolution; that we then 
move forward with a comprehensive strategy so that we finally resolve 
this Iraq quagmire--it means that it has to be diplomatic and political 
and economic--and that there be a report every 60 days so we know how 
this redeployment is going.

This is a breath of fresh air. This resolution is a breath of fresh 
air into a situation where you can't even breathe you are so suffocated 
from the tragedy, from the deaths, from the wounded, from the 
explosions every single day. So, yes, we are debating whether we should 
proceed to S.J. Res. 9, and I hope we will.

In closing, let me say this. There is a lot of talk about loving the 
troops, and I think every one of us in this Chamber loves the troops, 
so I have a rhetorical point here. If you love the troops, and I 
believe we all do, why put them in the middle of a civil war where they 
can't tell who is shooting at them? If you love the troops, why do you 
give them a mission they can't accomplish? They can't solve the civil 
war. That has to be done diplomatically, politically. If you love the 
troops, why would you lower the standards for their future colleagues 
in arms? We are stunned to see that convicted violent felons are


now being taken into the military, that is how desperately stretched 
the military is.

If you love the troops, why would you put them in a place such as 
Walter Reed, where you have mold on the walls and vermin, and not give 
them the access when they leave Washington and go back home, not give 
them definitive access to the help they need?

Why would you send them, if you loved the troops, out to battle again 
and again and again? I met a man yesterday whose son is on his third 
tour. I have the charts in front of my office with the names of the 
California dead. He looked at that, and I saw the look on his face, and 
I said, what is wrong? He said, I have a son in Iraq, third tour of 
duty, no rest.

So why do you have a rule that says they have to have rest; they have 
to be properly trained; they have to have the proper equipment?

If you love the troops, why would you continue to send them over in 
that fashion, without being properly equipped or trained? Why would you 
send them out on the battlefield with post-traumatic stress and a 
bottle of antidepressants, if you loved the troops?

I am proud to be a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 9. This is a comprehensive 
solution. The other side of this debate keeps saying, well, where is 
your solution? Here it is. It is right there. We transform the mission 
to a mission that can be accomplished, not mission impossible. That 
mission will be to protect United States and coalition personnel and 
infrastructure, training and equipping Iraqi forces, and conducting 
targeted counterterrorism operations. Now that is a mission we can 
accomplish.

As for sending our troops into the middle of a civil war, that is 
wrong, and I don't believe anyone who voted for that resolution--and I 
am so proud and so glad I didn't vote for that resolution to take this 
country into this ill-fated war, but if you voted for it, you didn't 
vote to put troops in the middle of a civil war. So if that is where we 
are right now, we need to change it.

You know, Martin Luther King--and I read this recently--who is one of 
my heroes in life, said during the Vietnam war that what can happen to 
you when you are faced with these horrible options, these horrible 
choices--and by the way, the worst kind of leadership, no matter where 
it comes from, is a leadership that gives you no good choices, okay? 
But Martin Luther King said, when you are faced with that 
circumstance--and he was talking about Vietnam, where it was tragic, 
there were no good choices, what could we do--said, paralysis sets in 
and people can't change. What happens is the status quo prevails and it 
becomes a new reality: dead, dead, dead soldiers every day, suicide 
bombs, and we can't get out of it.

The surge isn't a new strategy. It has been tried before. We know 
what is happening. The enemy tells us what is happening. They are 
leaving, going someplace else to cause trouble; waiting it out. We know 
they will adjust to this.

There is only one solution, and that is why S.J. Res. 9 is so 
important. What is the solution? We spell it out. A comprehensive 
strategy shall be implemented as part of a comprehensive diplomatic, 
political, and economic strategy that includes sustained engagement 
with Iraq's neighbors and the international community for the purpose 
of working collectively to bring stability to Iraq.

There is no more coalition of the willing. They are all leaving, 
whether it is Great Britain--which now is going to have only a few 
thousand troops there--Italy, Spain, Portugal. I could go through the 
list. They are all leaving. We need to redeploy our troops and we need 
a comprehensive strategy. I am proud to support S.J. Res. 9, and I hope 
when we have this vote we will vote to proceed to this very important 
resolution.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.