# None
## `c6b32229af3f4ea7732fa37781057460`
`Mr. AKAKA â€” 2 November 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I urge my colleagues to support S. 1163, 
as amended, the Blinded Veterans Paired Organ Act of 2007. This bill 
would expand benefit eligibility for veterans with service-connected 
vision impairment and enhance the burial and memorial benefits offered 
by the Department of Veterans Affairs.

This legislation, which I introduced in April of this year, has 
subsequently been amended and reported favorably by the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs. As amended, S. 1163 would modify the standard that 
the Department of Veterans Affairs uses when determining blindness and 
improve compensation for veterans who experience impairment of vision 
in both eyes. The measure would also enhance burial and memorial 
benefits for veterans, and further maintain the integrity of veterans 
benefits by making certain that those in receipt of certain needs-based 
benefits qualify for such benefits.

Vision impairment is a serious disability that frequently results 
from injuries sustained on the battlefield. We are all aware that 
traumatic brain injuries caused by roadside bombs on the Iraqi highways 
are one of the greatest dangers that our service men and women face in 
Iraq. These injuries are frequently accompanied by damage to the 
individual's vision. As of August of this year, VA had granted service-
connection for vision impairment to 230 veterans of the conflicts in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. These veterans face significant readjustment 
challenges when they return to civilian life. Often, they find that 
they cannot resume the same occupations or daily activities that were 
staples of their lives before their injuries.

This bill would enhance disability compensation benefits for two 
distinct groups of veterans with impaired vision due to service--those 
with service-connected blindness in one eye who subsequently suffer 
loss of vision in the other eye later in life and those who receive 
special monthly compensation for multiple disabilities, including 
vision impairment. In both cases, this legislation would amend the 
vision impairment criteria used by VA so as to encompass veterans with 
20/200 vision or less, the standard for blindness used by the Social 
Security Administration and the American Medical Association.

Earlier this session, the House passed a companion bill, H.R. 797, 
the Dr. James Allen Veteran Vision Equity Act, which would make the 
same change to the paired organ vision criteria as S. 1163. I take this 
opportunity to acknowledge the sponsor of that bill, Representative 
Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin. A long-time ophthalmologist at the VA 
hospital in Madison, WI, Dr. James Allen, brought the issue to 
Representative Baldwin's attention several years ago and she has since 
worked to make the necessary change on behalf of blinded veterans. 
Representative Baldwin and Dr. Allen deserve thanks and credit for 
their efforts on behalf of veterans.

The amended bill also includes several provisions that would enhance 
burial and memorial benefits for veterans. I will briefly describe 
them.

The amended bill would permanently authorize VA to provide government 
headstones or markers for the privately-marked graves of veterans 
interred at private cemeteries. Current law authorizes VA to furnish, 
upon request, an appropriate headstone or marker for the grave of an 
eligible individual who died after September 10, 2001, and who is 
buried in a private cemetery, notwithstanding that the grave is marked 
by a headstone or marker furnished at private expense. Thus, in some 
cases, an individual's grave may have two markers--one privately-
purchased and one furnished by VA. Prior to 2001, this authority had 
been suspended for 11 years, making those who died between November 1, 
1990, and September 10, 2001, ineligible for the benefit. Furthermore, 
the current authority is only temporary, set to expire on December 31, 
2007. This bill would address these temporal constraints by eliminating 
the sunset and making the authority permanent, and by making the 
authority retroactive to cover the 11-year gap in current law. In 
addition, this bill would give VA the authority to furnish a new 
medallion or other device that could be placed on an existing grave 
marker in a private cemetery to signify that the deceased was a 
veteran, in lieu of providing a second marker or headstone.

The amended bill would also repeal the current 2-year window within 
which States must file for reimbursement from VA for the interment or 
inurnment of the unclaimed remains of deceased veterans. To assist 
States in meeting some or all of their cemetery operations and 
maintenance expenses, current law requires VA to pay to States a $300 
plot allowance for the interment or inurnment of eligible veterans and 
reserve component members. In order to receive plot allowance revenue, 
States must currently submit claims within 2 years after the permanent 
burial or cremation of the remains has occurred. However, the 2-year 
window within which States must file can prove difficult to meet in 
situations in which remains are not identified as those of a veteran 
until after the 2-year period has expired.

Finally, the amended bill would authorize $5 million to cover a 
portion of the operational and maintenance expenses of State cemeteries 
under criteria to be determined by VA. The need to incentivize greater 
participation by States in the State cemetery grant program was 
discussed in a December 19, 2000, VA-contracted report entitled An 
Assessment of the Burial Benefits Administered by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs. The report found that an option for better serving 
veterans and their families was to ''provide maintenance support to 
State veterans cemeteries.''

I am pleased to advise my colleagues that the provisions in this bill 
are paid for by utilizing the National Directory for New Hires to make 
certain that those in receipt of certain needs-based benefits qualify 
for such benefits. The savings from this provision more than pays for 
the expansion of benefits to veterans that are included in this bill.

This is a sensible bill that would provide small but important 
improvements to benefits of great importance to many veterans and their 
families. I urge my colleagues to support its passage.