---
---

# AMERICA'S ECONOMIC HEALTH
## `c6b46c50d538ec9785c9d49bae239efb`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 1 February 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, as we anticipate the beginning of the 
discussion and debate with respect to the future of the involvement of 
the United States in Iraq, it is important for Members always in this 
Chamber to remember we are all unified in honoring the men and women 
who serve in the Armed Forces and those men and women who continue to 
fight in Iraq with such bravery and such valor that we cannot forget 
what they do. Every Member in the Senate honors the sacrifice which our 
troops and their families have made over the past 4 years. That 
sacrifice will not, cannot, and will never be forgotten.

It is also important to remember that no matter how contentious the 
debate might become in the weeks and months ahead, every Senator shares 
the same basic goals: The goal is simply peace and stability in the 
Middle East and a safe return of our troops to their homeland.

We may disagree on the best path to the end. It is important to 
remember what binds us together as America so we will not be torn too 
far apart and we can help end the divisiveness which has occurred in 
our country over this issue and move forward in a bipartisan way to 
restore the greatness of America in the world.

It is my hope the anticipated debate that will occur will be with a 
spirit of bipartisanship and with a spirit of civility. I am especially 
pleased we have arrived at a bipartisan resolution


which plainly states Congress does, in fact, support a new direction in 
Iraq. I commend the efforts of the bipartisan group of Senators who 
worked together to provide a positive framework for protecting our 
national security, supporting our troops, and defining our mission in 
Iraq. That compromise resolution reflects the will of the American 
people that we must, in fact, chart a new course of success in Iraq.


I especially commend the leadership and the great efforts of Senator 
Warner, Senator Nelson, Senator Collins, Senator Levin, Senator Biden, 
Senator Hagel, and others who have been involved in this effort over 
the last several days.

Until now, the debate over our mission in Iraq has been dominated by 
essentially what has been a false choice. On the one hand, we have had 
before Congress and before the American people plan A, which is the 
President's plan, which essentially has been to say, stay the course, 
plus, add another 21,500 troops into the fight in Baghdad. This would 
be a mistake. It would put more American troops into the middle of a 
civil war and places too much faith in what has been, to us, an 
incompetent Iraqi Government that has failed to do its work in securing 
the peace for its people and their country.

On the other hand, we have plan B, which is advocated by some Members 
of Congress, both in the House and this Senate, which calls for a more 
or less precipitous withdrawal from Iraq. From my point of view, this, 
too, is a bad choice. It could open the door to even more bloodshed and 
to a dangerous regionwide military escalation not only in Iraq but 
throughout the Middle East.

In my view, what we need is a plan C. That plan C should reflect the 
bipartisan opposition to the President's proposal to send an additional 
21,500 troops to Iraq and also propose an alternative strategy for 
success in Iraq. That is exactly what we have accomplished with this 
compromise resolution which would make clear the following: First, that 
a bipartisan majority of Senators disagrees with the President's plan 
to increase the number of United States troops in Iraq as he has 
proposed; second, that the primary objective of a United States 
strategy in Iraq should be to encourage the Iraqi leaders to make the 
political compromises that are necessary to improve security, foster 
reconciliation, strengthen the Government, and end the violence; third, 
that the United States has an important role to play in helping to 
maintain the territorial integrity of Iraq, conducting counterterrorism 
activities, promoting regional stability and training and equipping the 
Iraqi troops; and, finally, that the United States should engage the 
nations in the Middle East to develop a regional, internationally 
sponsored peace and reconciliation diplomatic process and initiative 
within Iraq and throughout the region.

I will briefly elaborate on some of these points. The President's 
plan to simply surge or increase the number of troops in Iraq by 21,500 
would be a mistake. First, the violence in Iraq is becoming 
increasingly sectarian, even intrasectarian. I worry that the American 
troops we are sending there are being placed in what is the midst of a 
civil war.

Second, I also worry that the larger American military presence will 
discourage the Iraqis from taking responsibility for their own 
security. As General John Abizaid said in this Capitol last November:




 . . . it's easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do this 


 work. I believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis 


 from taking more responsibility for their own future.


As we enter the debate over the next several days and weeks in this 
Senate, we should not forget those words:




 I believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 taking more responsibility for their own future.


Furthermore, I am concerned that the plan places too much faith in 
the present Iraqi Government, which has so far shown little willingness 
to make the difficult decisions necessary to stop the bloodshed and the 
violence within their own country.

Finally, we have recent experience where the additional troops who 
have been sent into Iraq indicate that the results of those operations 
of the last 7 to 8 months have not been successful. Last year, we tried 
two separate surges--one was named Operation Together Forward I and the 
other was Operation Together Forward II--and neither stopped or slowed 
the violence in Iraq.

In fact, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group found that the violence had 
escalated during that same time period by 43 percent.

Adding to this is all the additional strain that a troop increase 
will place on our service men and women and their families.

For these reasons, I oppose the President's plan to increase our 
troop presence in Iraq. I am proud to be a cosponsor of the resolution 
that will be before this Senate. This resolution is more than about 
opposing the President's plan. It proposes a new strategy by calling 
for an enhanced diplomatic effort, a new focus on maintaining the 
territorial integrity of Iraq, maintaining the territorial integrity of 
Iraq, so that the weapons that are flowing from Iran and from Syria 
into that country can, in fact, be stopped. Stopping the flow of 
weapons and terrorists into that country will be part of bringing about 
the security that is needed in that country.

It also calls for a renewed focus on helping the Iraqis achieve a 
political settlement which is, at the end, a precondition to any 
successful outcome in Iraq.

We need a new direction in Iraq. We need to speak in a bipartisan 
voice. We, as an institution, need to fulfill our constitutional duty 
as a coequal branch of Government as we move forward with what is one 
of the most important questions that today faces the American Nation.

The resolution I hope will be considered in the Senate this next week 
is a first step in that direction. I am proud to be a sponsor and a 
supporter of that resolution.
