# NATIONAL FIREFIGHTERS MEMORIAL DAY
## `c6b7b1ec1d40b2f039842ff8aa21ae76`
`Mr. LYNCH — 28 October 2009`

---


Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform, I am proud to present House Resolution 729 for consideration. 
This resolution seeks to honor our brave firefighters across the United 
States, as well as commemorate those firefighters who have been 
disabled or


killed in the line of duty by expressing the support of the House of 
Representatives for the designation of a National Firefighters Memorial 
Day.

The measure before us was introduced on September 10 by my colleague, 
Representative Ted Poe of Texas, and enjoys the support of nearly 60 
Members of Congress.

Mr. Speaker, according to the National Fire Protection Association, 
there are over 1.1 million firefighters serving throughout more than 
30,000 fire departments across the Nation, including over 300,000 
career firefighters, and over 800,000 volunteer firefighters. As we 
have witnessed time and again, whether in the midst of the terrorist 
attacks on September 11, in the aftermath of hurricanes Katrina and 
Rita, or in the face of the daily emergencies faced by our local 
communities, these brave men and women are always on the front lines in 
the event of a local, State, or national crisis, and are willing to 
serve and safeguard their fellow citizens, at great risk to their own 
personal safety.

According to the United States Fire Administration, which annually 
collects data on firefighter fatalities across the country, last year 
witnessed 118 on-duty firefighter fatalities, including the deaths of 
66 volunteer firefighters and 34 career firefighters. In addition, the 
United States Fire Administration has provisionally reported that to 
date this year, there have been 77 firefighter fatalities, including 
deaths of two heroic firefighters from my own home State of 
Massachusetts, firefighter Paul J. Roberts of the Beverly fire 
department, and fire fighter Kevin M. Kelly of my own Boston fire 
department.

Notably, the bravery and self-sacrifice demonstrated by our local, 
State, and Federal firefighters are not limited to their public service 
on behalf of their fellow citizens, communities, and country here at 
home. Many of these exceptional public servants are currently deployed 
overseas in Iraq, Kuwait, Afghanistan, and other nations in the Middle 
East, as well as serving on aircraft carriers in support of our 
military and reconstruction missions abroad, including Operation Iraqi 
Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom.

As reported just last week by the International Association of 
Firefighters, 16 IAFF members are currently serving together at Kirkuk 
Regional Air Base in Iraq as members of the 22nd Air Force Reserve 
Command. Collectively, these soldiers represent 11 IAFF affiliates and 
constitute one of the largest numbers of IAFF members to serve together 
in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, our brave local, State, and Federal firefighters stand 
as a shining example of the public service and principle of shared 
sacrifice that has come to define our Nation. It is my hope that we can 
honor their dedication to their fellow citizens, as well as commemorate 
the lives of our fallen firefighters, through the passage of House 
Resolution 729. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.