---
---

# None
## `c6ccd68a7887f98dd7037175a4e7d23c`
`Mr. BIDEN — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I say to my good friends, Senator Inouye 
and Senator Stevens, there are no two more seasoned or devoted Senators 
to protecting the military and our fighting men and women. I know my 
amendment with regard to so-called MRAPs, mine-resistant vehicles, is 
an inconvenience, and I am not being facetious when I say that. I know 
that my friend--and I don't have a closer friend in the Senate than 
Senator Inouye--supports the essence of what I am proposing, but there 
has been an attempt, understandably, to have all amendments that could 
be related in any way to Iraq placed on the supplemental. This 
amendment will be placed on the supplemental. But the truth is, we are 
not likely to get to the supplemental until January.

I know one of the Democratic leaders, Senator Durbin, is in the 
Chamber. He may know better than I if that is accurate, but that is my 
understanding. In this place, you have to have, as they say, a horse to 
ride. You have to have a vehicle to be able to attach something 
important that you support so that it will get some consideration.

The amendment I am proposing today is one that calls for a 
significant increase in the production of mine-resistant vehicles. I 
know I sound like a broken record to many of my colleagues since I 
started raising it last spring. This amendment is very simple, and it 
is costly. It provides the $23.6 billion needed to replace every Army 
up-armored HMMWV vehicle in Iraq with a Mine Resistant Ambush Protected 
vehicle, so-called MRAPs.

It is exactly the same thing we did on the authorization bill that 
passed Monday night. Our commanders in the field told us as recently as 
2 weeks ago--I met with some of those commanders, Marine commanders in 
Ramadi, and took a ride in a new mine-resistant vehicle. I also sat in 
an up-armored HMMWVs--so the Marines, from the two-star general to the 
sergeant who drove various vehicles, could make a point to me about how 
different they are.

They showed me a photograph of a roadside bomb having struck one of 
the new vehicles--that is a Cougar, which is one size of the up-armored 
mine-resistant vehicles and it showed where on, I believe, August 28, 
in that same city, a roadside bomb had exploded, 250 pounds of 
explosives. And it literally blew this vehicle, which is many times the 
weight of the largest SUV any American drives in this country--I don't 
know the exact weight, but it is close to 38,000 pounds fully loaded--
it blew it so high up in the air that it literally brought down the 
telephone wires. The wheels got caught in the telephone wires. A 
standard telephone pole, I don't know, are they 20, 25 feet, maybe 
more, maybe less? It blew the vehicle so high into the air it literally 
brought down the telephone wires. And when it hit, the vehicle, 
probably in an area the circumference of this Chamber, the pieces were 
spread all around the landscape. The engine would have been over by the 
Republican cloakroom, the drivetrain would have been over by the exit 
door on the Democratic side back toward the marble room, the axle would 
be sitting up by the Democratic cloakroom, and right in the middle of 
the Senate floor would be the cabin of the vehicle.


There were seven soldiers in that vehicle. Had that been an up-
armored HMMWV, everyone would be dead. Not one of those soldiers died. 
Not one. They suffered severe concussions, four of them, but that was 
the worst of their injuries. And one of those young sergeants, as the 
brass went through showing me this and I got into vehicles and we drove 
and so on and so forth--we are now inside Ramadi--as I am getting out 
and leaving, one of those young soldiers was exuberant. First, he 
saluted me and said: Sir, as Senator Reed, a West Point graduate, is 
accustomed to having been done to him in the old days and even now--and 
then he became emotional in his thanks for that vehicle, thanking us 
for insisting on building them. It is truly a lifesaving vehicle.

Now, our commanders in the field tell us these Mine Resistant Ambush 
Protective vehicles are going to reduce casualties by 67 to 80 percent. 
That is the range, 67 to 80 percent. Put it another way, had they been 
riding around in these vehicles since we knew they were needed, we 
would have over a thousand fewer dead and over 10,000 fewer seriously 
wounded, literally, because over 70 percent of all the deaths and 
casualties are caused by IEDs, or roadside bombs. When I found out 
about how good these vehicles are last year in Iraq and then again in 
testimony the beginning of this calendar year, and then when a 
whistleblower came to me telling me commanders in the field had asked 
for these in February of 2005, I was dumbfounded as to why we weren't 
building them. With the great help of everyone on this floor, I think 
the vote was 97 to 0, we accelerated production by adding $1.5 billion 
to last year's wartime funding bill.

The lead commander on the ground in Iraq is Lieutenant General 
Odierno, and he told us 6 months ago that he wanted to replace the 
Army's approximately 18,000 up-armored HMMWVs with these new Mine 
Resistant vehicles. Instead of adjusting the requirement immediately, 
the Pentagon has taken time to study the issue. They originally agreed 
the Army should get 380--380--of these vehicles. That was in December 
of 2006. Then, in March of this year, after the Commandant of the 
Marine Corps said it was his highest moral priority to get his folks in 
3,700 of these vehicles, they agreed to increase the number to 2,500 
for the Army. In August, they added a few more and agreed to 2,726 for 
the Army. This month, they agreed that the general needs a little over 
half of what he asked for--10,000 of these vehicles.

Slowly we are getting there. But we have seen this movie before, Mr. 
President, with the body armor, with the up-armored HMMWVs. Until the 
Congress insisted that the better protection be fielded for all of 
those troops in Iraq, it was not. The catalyst came from here. We 
insisted. Remember just several years ago how many kids we were sending 
into battle without the proper body armor and how many National Guard 
units we were sending over who were not adequately equipped and how 
initially the military was threatening to discipline young women and 
men who were taking sheets of metal to put on the vehicles they drove 
on convoys ferrying equipment from the gulf all the way up into 
Baghdad? They were putting these sheets of steel on the sides of their 
doors and the bottom. They were threatened with being disciplined.

We have very short memories here. Very short memories. But in the 
meantime, a lot of people die. Some would have died inevitably, but a 
lot--a lot--would not have. So today we are insisting the Army get all 
of the 18,000 MRAPs the commanders in the field have asked for.

Now, to be honest, I can't understand why it is taking so long to 
agree to replace all these vehicles. It makes no sense. We know how 
effective these vehicles are. We surely can't be making an economic 
argument. Surely there is no one here who is going to say we can't 
afford to protect these troops with the technology we know--we know--we 
know--will protect these troops. Surely no one is going to make that 
argument.



Last week, General Pace, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, told the Appropriations Committee that MRAPs have been tested in 
Aberdeen with 300 pounds of explosives below them--300 pounds--and they 
survive. Are we only supposed to care about the tactical judgement of 
the commanders in the field when it is cheap? I don't think that is 
what the American people think we are doing for our military. Our 
military men and women have a right to expect a lot more from us.

I know some say it is not possible to build a total of 23,000 MRAPs 
in 12 to 15 months. Why not? Why not? Imagine President Roosevelt, in 
the middle of World War II--and this war has lasted longer than World 
War II--having said: You know, we need to get X number more fighter 
aircraft over in theater. We need to have more landing craft for D-Day. 
But you know what. The present system just won't be able to build them 
all. We just can't do it. Can you imagine that being said? Can you 
fathom that being said?


I don't get it. I don't get it. Are we saying that we cannot 
mobilize, through the President of the United States and the weight of 
the United States Congress, the construction of vehicles that we know 
will save lives; that we know will reduce critical injuries? You are as 
dead in Baghdad as you were on Normandy Beach. You are as dead in 
Baghdad as you were on Normandy Beach. And the pain of the family of 
that fallen angel is not one bit different than the heroism we 
celebrate today in the Ken Burns documentary series on the Greatest 
Generation from World War II. There is no difference. There is no 
distinction. The pain is as searing. So I ask you all a question: Can 
you imagine during that war the Congress and the President saying: I 
don't think we can get this done?

Mr. President, this is basically a modified truck. With real 
leadership and a national level commitment, America can certainly make 
this happen. I believe that the can-do spirit and deep patriotism of 
our business men and women is as profound as it was back in the year 
1942 or 1945. MRAP manufacturers want to make the 23,000 vehicles 
needed to save the lives of our men and women on the frontline. But we 
have to do our part.

In Congress, the best thing we can do to make sure it happens is to 
fully fund every vehicle needed up front. Contractors and 
subcontractors can only expand their capacity if we are clear on what 
we need and what we are prepared to fund. This amendment allows us to 
do that. It also ensures that any delays in dealing with the overall 
wartime supplemental funding bill do not cause the production lines 
that are only now getting up to speed to shut down. Said another way, 
we are finally getting these production lines up and running. There are 
five companies, some relatively small, that, based on contracts, have 
gone out and hired 200, 500, 1,000 more people. They have expanded 
their facilities to build these vehicles alone. But they can only 
expand to the degree to which they know they have a contract.

We funded these MRAPs in the last supplemental and the Continuing 
Resolution to the point that we are not going to be able to build any 
more of them by the time March comes along if we do not have money in 
this bill. We are not going to be able to build any more. If we wait 
until the supplemental to let these contracts, we will have a hiatus of 
2 to 4 to 6 months where they shut down these lines. These are not mom-
and-pop operations, but they are also not General Motors, Chrysler, 
Ford, Toyota, or any other major automobile manufacturer. So this is 
about how many more months in delay getting these vehicles are we going 
to cause by not putting all of the funding in this appropriations bill. 
My amendment provides all of the funding needed. That is what my 
amendment will do.

It also ensures that any delays in dealing with the overall wartime 
supplemental funding bill will not cause production to shut down. Once 
we provide the full funding, American business must step up and get the 
job done, the Pentagon must manage the program aggressively and 
attentively, and the President is going to have to make it clear this 
is a national priority. But we have no chance of making all these 
needed vehicles as quickly as possible if we fund that program bit by 
bit, in fits and starts.

Once again, I ask my colleagues to weigh their options. Do we do our 
best to save American lives, knowing the only downside is the possible 
need to reprogram funding at the end of the year; or do we care more 
about the unknown total wartime funding limit than we care about these 
lives? I know every one of my colleagues would do anything in their 
power to increase the possibility that we reduce casualties. Well, here 
is the way to do it.

It seems to me that certain things are a matter of sacred honor and 
exceed anything having to do with budgets. We can argue the national 
interest is better protected and our physical security is better 
protected by building X, Y, or Z weapon system, and we can argue 
whether our failing to build it is going to affect the lives of the 
American people. That is a very fundamentally different issue than 
knowing you have something, that if you physically place an American 
soldier in that vehicle, you will increase by 60 to 80 percent the 
chance of that man or woman living, and yet not doing it. That is a 
different deal. This is not your ordinary appropriations program. It is 
a little bit like the ultimate body armor.

Would anybody here, if we knew that by spending X dollars more we 
could increase the life expectancy of every soldier by providing the 
right body armor in the theater, would we not do it, no matter what it 
cost? Well, this is a form of body armor, a form of body armor that we 
know, if it is possessed, is going to reduce the cause of over 70 
percent of the casualties in theater. If these vehicles can reduce 
American casualties by two-thirds or more, I don't know how we can do 
anything else.

I agree with the Commandant of the Marine Corps, GEN James Conway, 
when he said: ''Anything less is immoral.'' Let me say it again: 
''Anything less is immoral.''

So I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I ask for the 
yeas and nays on this vote when the appropriate time comes. I ask for 
them now, so that we know when the amendment is called up we get a 
vote.