# DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `c6d43052a49f9b6fe061722077603a2c`
`Mr. CORNYN — 11 September 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. I thank the Chair.

Mr. President, I always enjoy listening to the distinguished Senator 
from Illinois. He is one of the most gifted speakers in the Senate, and 
he is a brilliant lawyer. We serve together on the Senate Judiciary 
Committee.

I agree with him that sometimes people say things they later regret. 
He is right, both of us have been in that barrel, and we have asked for 
forgiveness. Hopefully--I do believe, actually, we have received that. 
But I do think he protests too much.

This simple amendment--which would take us 15 minutes to vote on, if 
allowed to do so--has to do with more than just a simple disagreement 
with what General Petraeus has said. This is a direct attack, impugning 
the character of this distinguished member of the U.S. Army. It is not 
simply a poor choice of words.

The Senator from Illinois said: I do not subscribe to that point of 
view. If we would have an opportunity to vote on my amendment, his vote 
in favor of my amendment would, in fact, confirm what he has already 
said on the floor--that it is a poor choice of words and he does not 
subscribe to that point of view.

At the same time he asked: We are on the Transportation 
appropriations bill. Why are we talking about this now? Well, frankly, 
there are a lot of people who think the global war on terrorism and our 
success or failure in Iraq are just as important--I would submit more 
important--than an appropriations bill. But the fact of the matter is, 
we could do both, and we could get this amendment voted on in rather 
short order.

So I do think this amendment is timely. General Petraeus testified 
yesterday before a joint committee of the Armed Services Committee and 
Foreign Relations Committee in the House. He is testifying, even as we 
speak, before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and will testify 
this afternoon before the Senate Armed Services Committee. I think this 
is a timely matter, where we should express our strongest repudiation 
of the kind of despicable attack on the character of this good man that 
this ad represents.

This ad reportedly cost roughly $160,000 in the New York Times by 
MoveOn.org. I have already spoken to the coordination between these 
outside groups--including MoveOn.org, reported in the New York Times 
Sunday magazine in an article entitled ''Can Lobbyists Stop the War?'' 
talking about regular consultation and coordination between these 
outside groups and Democrats on the Hill.

I agree with the distinguished Republican leader, Senator McConnell. 
This is a way for our friends on the other side of the aisle to show 
some separation between the irresponsible rhetoric of these groups, 
such as MoveOn.org, and their own position.

All I am asking is that the distinguished majority whip--who has 
already said this is a poor choice of words and that he doesn't 
subscribe to that point of view--allow the amendment to be voted on, 
and by voting for the amendment, he will basically confirm what he has 
already said on the floor.