---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS ACT
## `c6efa0e5aafbdd537b51b73281e48d93`
`Mr. BAIRD — 30 October 2007`

---


Mr. BAIRD. I thank the chairwoman for the time and applaud her for 
her leadership of the Small Business Committee. I also want to thank 
the ranking member for his leadership as well.

I rise today with an amendment to improve and update the Small 
Business Administration's Small Disadvantaged Business Program.

My amendment would direct the administrator of the Small Business 
Administration to examine the list of groups under the Disadvantaged 
Business Program and consider whether it should be updated to include 
additional groups. This amendment does not mandate that any group be 
added and would not affect those well-deserving groups already 
included.

Let me explain why I believe this issue deserves our attention. The 
issue was brought to my attention by an Afghani American entrepreneur 
in my own district who is not eligible to receive SBA assistance under 
the Small Business Development Program. After researching the matter, I 
learned that the SBA does not include Afghani or Iraqi Americans in the 
Small Disadvantaged Business Program.

I found this troubling, frankly. As we seek to spread democracy to 
other nations around the world, we ought to consider how we are helping 
or not helping individuals from those countries who have come to the 
United States. For example, at a time when we are promoting the 
American Dream in Afghanistan, I believe we should be doing more to 
promote this dream to those of Afghani descent who have come to the 
United States to seek a better way of life. The same applies to the 
refugees who've helped our Nation in its Iraq mission but have been 
forced to flee their own lands for having given us that very 
assistance.

I hope we would all agree that as we work to spread democracy and 
freedom to other nations, we should consider how we're treating 
individuals from those countries who have come to the United States. 
Should my amendment be accepted, I hope that the administrator will pay 
special attention to those countries to which our Armed Forces have 
been deployed since September 11.

Some may be surprised to learn that the SBA has not updated their 
list of groups since 1989. I believe it's a good time now to revisit 
this list and to ensure that this program is not excluding any group 
who deserve assistance.

I would ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this commonsense 
amendment. I would ask for your support.

I reserve the balance of my time.