# PROVIDING FOR FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3773, RESTORE ACT OF 2007
## `c700bc99820e5dda5447ee3692f5d467`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. But there is an ''alien'' issue in this bill and only 
one alien issue--those who have been so alien to the freedoms we hold 
dear as Americans.

This is an Administration that has desecrated our Constitution, 
debased our values and repeatedly undermined our freedoms. For a party 
that purports to hate Big Government, these Republicans sure do seem to 
love Big Brother. They demand unlimited Executive power and 
unrestrained authority to intrude into our everyday lives. Today, we 
dare to impose some limitations on one of so many examples of their 
callous disregard of our liberties.

If even former Attorney General John Ashcroft, sitting there in his 
hospital bed in intensive care, if even he could recognize the 
illegality of the surveillance that Dick Cheney demanded, why shouldn't 
we in Congress be able to do the same? And if one telecommunications 
company had the courage to say ''no'' to this Administration's 
wrongdoing, why not the others? And why would we want to protect these 
corporate accomplices in the surreptitious destruction of our freedom 
from any accountability whatsoever?



Yesterday, we told this President ''no more blank checks for Iraq.'' 
And today we say no more unauthorized blanket surveillance of American 
citizens. Those of us who love liberty must stand up to this 
Administration's fear-mongering, to its continued leveraging of fear 
for its own political purposes.

As Mr. Cheney's current chief of staff once said and what many 
Americans now recognize is an irresponsible and unconstitutional 
expansion of Presidential power: ''We're going to push and push and 
push until some larger force makes us stop.''

Well, today we must be that force. This Congress must stay ''stop.''

Liberty is our strength. Fear is our enemy. This legislation strikes 
an appropriate balance to keep our families safe and ensure they remain 
free.