---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c723683d0d76c1390113da5763ae8436`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Speaker, as a veteran, as you have heard, of the 
United States Army, myself, I strongly support our troops, our veterans 
and their families. Let me state at the outset that our troops have 
done everything that has been asked of them to do. They have done it 
well. Exceptionally well, I might say.

More than 34,000 from North Carolina have been deployed on Operation 
Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. And more than 5,000 are 
currently over there now. More are preparing to go back to the desert 
once again.

I am tremendously proud of all the troops from North Carolina and 
across America who have laced up their boots, followed their orders, 
and done their duty. They are our heroes, and we salute them.

Regardless if one terms the President's announced change in policy a 
surge or an escalation or an augmentation, the so-called new plan can 
be summed up in four words: more of the same.

I myself have traveled to Iraq twice. And after I returned last year 
I said the administration must change from this failed policy. 
Specifically, I said that we need more burden-sharing support from 
other countries, more communities and countries in the region, because 
the whole world has a tremendous stake in a stable Iraq and a peaceful 
Middle East.

This administration's arrogant disregard for our international 
partners has destroyed U.S. alliances that were decades in the making. 
Those alliances saw us through the darkest days of the cold war when 
the very existence of our country hung in the balance. Yet, this 
administration tossed them aside like yesterday's news.

It is a sad tragedy to witness the forfeiture of America's moral 
standing in the world and the abandonment of diplomacy as an effective 
asset for America's interests.

We need to bring all the parties to the table and discuss cooperative 
action to secure Iraq's long-term stability and a peaceful Middle East.

Mr. Speaker, I voted to give the President the authority to topple 
Saddam Hussein's regime in Iraq because he said it presented a ''grave 
and gathering threat to America.''

The President said Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass 
destruction and intended to use them against America.

The President said Saddam was in cahoots with Osama bin Laden's al 
Qaeda terrorists. I took the President of the United States of America 
at his word. We have learned, to our great regret, what that was worth.

Now the President wants to send 21,000 more troops to Baghdad. 
Republican Senator Arlen Specter called the new deployment ''a snowball 
in July.'' An outgoing commander of the Central Command, with 
responsibility for Iraq, told the Senate last November, and I quote, 
''I do not believe that more American troops right now is the solution 
to the problem. I believe the troop levels need to stay about where 
they are.''

And the former Republican chairman of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, John Warner, a decorated marine and former Secretary of the 
Navy, said last month, ''I feel very strongly that the American GI was 
not trained, not sent over there, certainly not by resolution of this 
institution, to be placed in the middle of a fight between Sunni and 
Shiia and the wanton and just incomprehensible killing that is going on 
at this time.''

Mr. Speaker, I have voted for every defense bill and war funding 
legislation that Congress has passed for Iraq. I am very concerned 
about the state of readiness of our American Armed Forces.

As the Representative for Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base, I know 
that America's military and our military communities have many unmet 
needs, while the war in Iraq continues to consume more and more public 
dollars, with no end in sight.

In conclusion, I rise in support of this resolution with no joy in my 
heart, but with solid conviction in my soul. The failure of this 
administration has gone unchecked and unchallenged by the Congress of 
the United States for far


too long. We need a new direction in Iraq.

The question before Congress is this: Is more of the same in Iraq an 
acceptable policy? The answer is no.