---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `c73745b673ebc45ad894d757c72a4736`
`Mr. BUNNING — 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise to express my strong opposition to 
the Coleman amendment No. 2687. The amendment requires the use of 
emergency Federal funds paid by taxpayers from every State for security 
at the 2008 Presidential political party conventions in Minneapolis and 
Denver. If the amendment passes, both the Republican and Democratic 
political party conventions will each receive $50 million additional in 
Federal taxpayer dollars for State and local law enforcement costs 
associated with hosting the conventions. The $50 million for the 
Minneapolis convention is on top of the $12.5 million in Federal funds 
the State also will receive in the current version of the Commerce-
Justice-State appropriations bill. This is all on top of $70 million 
each party receives to host their conventions and run their political 
campaigns.

Spending an additional $100 million in taxpayer funds for political 
conventions in Minneapolis and Denver is pretty outrageous to me. 
States that bid to host political conventions know that winning the bid 
also means a high cost for security comes with it. Sure, the cost of 
security after September 11 has gone up, but States and cities that bid 
on the 2008 conventions knew that burden at the get-go.

Plus, the States will receive an enormous benefit from hosting the 
conventions. I have not heard one person say that the States or cities 
hosting the


conventions will go bankrupt from holding them. One estimate shows that 
Minneapolis will receive more than $150 million in benefits from 
hosting the convention. Denver will likely receive a similar financial 
benefit. The millions of dollars in benefits is the main reason cities 
bid to host conventions in the first place. That is why every 4 years 
many cities bid to host each of the conventions. This windfall comes 
from thousands of people staying at the hotels, eating at the 
restaurants, and shopping in the stores in Denver and Minneapolis. That 
will result in a lot of sales tax revenue and hotel tax revenue that 
will stay in each of those cities and States.

Paying for security definitely should not put States in the red. It 
is definitely not an unfunded mandate on the States or cities by the 
Federal Government. So if the States are receiving this huge benefit, 
why are taxpayers footing over $100 million additional in Federal 
funding for these political conventions? And how did we determine that 
figure of $50 million that was needed for each of these cities and 
States? Was this thoroughly researched? By whom? And what will the 
actual need be for Minneapolis? What will it be for Denver? Why has no 
Member of this body made this case?

At the 2004 convention in New York City that I attended, they spent 
about $58 million in security. Will Minneapolis and Denver, which are 
not as big as New York and not a major port city, need the same amount 
of funding? It seems we are just throwing taxpayer money needlessly 
around without seriously looking at the situation.

The legislation before us today provides over $109 billion for 
veterans and military construction projects all across the Nation. This 
legislation is supposed to help support our troops who are risking 
their lives overseas and to help the veteran men and women who so 
bravely fought for our country. With this in mind, I ask, why are we 
funding political conventions in this VA-Military Construction 
appropriations bill? What do political conventions have to do with the 
military? This is a combination of oil and water, and the Coleman 
amendment is trying to put them together. It doesn't mix.

I also have extreme concerns with the use of emergency Federal 
spending to pay for political party conventions--emergency Federal 
spending. This is just a budget gimmick to get around the need to 
offset the funds. I keep saying this over and over, but emergency 
spending should only be for just that--emergencies. Usually emergency 
funding goes to things such as the Iraq war, the Afghanistan war, or 
victims of Hurricane Katrina, and other major disasters that occur in 
the United States. It should not go toward nonemergency funding such as 
the conventions. Come on. Everybody knew, once the winning conventions 
city and State bids were announced, that security would have to be 
somehow funded. Holding conventions takes advance planning from States 
and cities and their political parties. All this does not add up to an 
emergency situation requiring emergency Federal funding.

The fiscal year 2008 budget resolution allows for a point of order 
against amendments such as this that are not true emergency spending. 
It sets criteria for emergency spending which I do not think this 
amendment meets. Emergency spending must be only used for essential, 
sudden, and urgent matters that are unforeseen and not permanent. By my 
calculations, this amendment meets only one of those requirements, and 
none of the four other requirements. Because I think the overwhelming 
majority of the Senate will vote for this amendment, I will not raise 
the point of order against it.

I have been to every Republican convention since 1980. I want to make 
it clear I think security is as important for the Republican and 
Democratic conventions, but my objections to this amendment concern who 
should foot the bill for the security. I believe those States and 
cities hosting the conventions should provide that funding. That means 
those planning the conventions and those benefiting from the 
conventions in Denver and Minneapolis should pick up the security tab, 
not Federal taxpayers across the country.

For all these reasons, I oppose the Coleman amendment and urge my 
colleagues to do the same. This amendment will pass, but we need to 
reevaluate how we finance political conventions in the future. When 
cities make bids to host these conventions, they should also make 
preparations to pay for security and include this information in their 
bids.

This emergency funding method, using Federal taxpayers' dollars for 
political conventions, is not in the best interest or the best way to 
proceed, and that is why I oppose this amendment. If we think about 
this, this is the way the old Soviet Union used to fund their 
conventions, which were phony. But the state paid for the whole thing. 
I do not think we should have the same thing happening here in the 
United States of America.

Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time.

Will the Chair state how much time I have left?