# LANCE CORPORAL DREW W. WEAVER POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `c737870fea37bcfd4fe6abc7adfa551d`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois â€” 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, I present for consideration and support H.R. 6168, 
which names a postal facility in St. Charles, Missouri, after Lance 
Corporal Drew Weaver, a heroic marine and great American.

H.R. 6198 was introduced by a colleague, Representative Akin of 
Missouri, on June 3, 2008, and has been considered by and reported from 
the Oversight Committee. I should mention that the measure had the 
support of the entire congressional delegation from Missouri before the 
committee approved the bill by a voice vote on July 16, 2008.

Lance Corporal Drew Weaver was assigned to the 3rd Light Armored 
Reconnaissance Battalion, 1st Marine Division I, Marine Expeditionary 
Force Twenty-Nine out of Palms, California, and was serving in 
Operation Iraqi Freedom during the time of his death. A true hero and 
American serviceman, Lance Corporal Weaver was well known not only for 
his service to his country, but also for his service to his local 
community of St. Charles, Missouri.

St. Charles, Missouri is proud of their hometown hero for the 
sacrifices he so nobly made, and those of us in the House of 
Representatives are as well. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, let us remember 
and pay tribute to the life and legacy of the courageous Lance Corporal 
Weaver and pass H.R. 6168 without objection.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.