# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `c7425a958d8633dadc9cb8d5dcef18b2`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania â€” 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
thank the gentleman from Arkansas, and point out when I was in an 
earlier deployment before Iraq, I was in Bosnia in 2002. Our soldiers 
on the ground there would often call the contractors Kellogg Brown & 
Root ''Kellogg Brown & Loot,'' because of the looting, of what they 
were doing to their own country when it comes to our fiscal dollars. 
And I am not trying to be cute or funny. That is a sad commentary on 
what is really going on over there in these deployments.

Mr. Speaker, when I heard my colleague, Mr. Donnelly, here from the 
great State of Indiana, and I know he went to the University of Notre 
Dame, I was with a colleague of mine on the phone yesterday. I was 
driving back from a memorial service for Private First Class Bobby 
Dembowski, who was a paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne Division who was 
killed recently in Iraq. He was from Bucks County, in my district.

When I was driving back from his memorial service yesterday with a 
heavy heart, I called my buddy, who is also a University of Notre Dame 
graduate, Captain Kobe Langley. I called Kobe, Mr. Speaker, and I said 
to him, ''Kobe, I am coming back.'' He said, ''How are you doing, 
Murph?'' I said, ''Kobe, not too good. I am coming back from another 
memorial service for one of our heroes that gave the ultimate 
sacrifice.'' He said, ''Well, you got to keep fighting. You got to keep 
doing what you are doing.''



He asked, What was the press conference you gave the other day?

I said I was standing up to this administration. I have the great 
honor of serving on the Armed Services Committee. I know my colleague 
and my fellow Blue Dog Representative Donnelly serves on the Veterans 
Affairs Committee. We were both cosigners for House Resolution 162 
because we want to hold this administration accountable when the Armed 
Services Committee says our troops deserve a 3.5 percent pay increase 
and there is already a wide gap between military pay and civilian pay.

The people who join the military are not trying to get rich. But if 
you are a private in Iraq, I don't think making $18,000 a year is too 
much to ask for. We were trying to give those privates and everyone 
across the board a 3.5 percent pay increase to lessen that gap. 
President Bush in writing said a 3.5 percent pay increase for our 
troops is, I quote, ''unnecessary.'' Unnecessary. A private first class 
making $18,000 a year in Iraq is unnecessary. It is too much money to 
ask for.

So this House bill in which the Speaker pro tempore, Mr. Ellsworth, 
and Mr. Donnelly cosponsored says a sense of the Congress is it should 
be a 3.5 percent pay increase. We support the troops and understand 
their sacrifice. We can find the money through PAYGO rules which the 
Blue Dogs believe in. As the gentleman from Arkansas says, $9 trillion 
is what we owe in debt.

So my daughter Maggie, who is home with my beautiful wife, when my 
daughter was born in Lower Bucks Hospital 6 months ago, she was born 
$29,000 in debt, a debt that we all owe combined, every man, woman and 
child, $9 trillion.

Some folks, when I am meeting folks in my district, they would say, 
Patrick, we are at war. Of course, it is going to cost money. I tell 
them this Iraq war has cost $450 billion, now up to maybe $500 billion. 
We owe $9 trillion to Communist China, to Mexico and to Japan. In 
March, 2007, the interest that we pay on that debt was $21 billion.

Now I know those folks at home who believe in what the Blue Dog 
Democrats believe in, of fiscal responsibility, of accountability. They 
say to themselves, wow, Congressman Murphy, $21 billion just in 
interest.

When I tell them how I used to be an educator at West Point and how 
we need to be more and more competitive in a global economy, I show 
them the numbers, we only spent $5 billion in education in March, 2007, 
yet $21 billion on the interest rate and the debt that we owe that we 
continue to rack up and rack up.

Finally, the Blue Dogs are taking such an incredible leadership role, 
establishing a PAYGO system and doing


the things necessary to put our fiscal house back in order.

Mr. Speaker, I know you cannot speak, but I know you are a Blue Dog, 
and I am proud that you are up there; and, Mr. Ross, I am proud you are 
one of our leaders of the Blue Dog Coalition. I am also proud of the 
freshmen Blue Dogs that I serve with, because we will demand answers 
and we will demand accountability of this administration and the next 
administration, hopefully a Democratic one, to make sure that we 
continue the progress that we are making in this 110th Congress.