# PRICE OF GASOLINE
## `c753bf3425e0590dfa509ee009ec3e4a`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. If the gentleman would yield, I think we have to get 
back to basics here. We have to have a diversified energy portfolio.

One of the things that you were talking about and Mr. Braley was 
talking about was renewable energy. The American people are way ahead 
of Congress, and it is our job to change the direction of the Federal 
Government on this subject because it is good for national security, 
and it is good for the climate, and it is good for jobs.

Quite frankly, if we have a diversified portfolio where we have 
biofuels, and where we use solar and wind where appropriate, and have 
hybrid types of cars, we will not be so beholden to a particular 
company or companies in the gasoline business.

Also we are going to stop funding both sides of the war on terror.

We need to talk about the war in Iraq. We will be voting tomorrow on 
supplemental funding to the President that will keep him on a short 
leash through September to see exactly where we are going with this 
war.

We have asked for a timeline. The President has rejected. He vetoed 
it. We have set benchmarks. He doesn't like those; but apparently, 
based on conversations we have seen in the paper, he may accept 
benchmarks. We need to see what is happening.

We had a briefing today from General Pace and from Secretary Gates 
and Ambassador Negroponte. The best they could say about what was going 
on in Iraq, mixed results. With the surge in one part of Baghdad, there 
was some reduction in casualties in Baghdad, but an explosion of 
casualties in the suburbs. You push in one place, and it pops out 
another place. They call it the balloon effect or toothpaste effect, 
the squeeze effect.

We have to make some changes here, and that is what this Congress is 
about. We will be keeping this President on a short leash. We will be 
imposing some benchmarks to see if there really is any progress in 
Iraq.

I know we all want to see progress and stability, but that is not 
what we are seeing on the television or reading in the newspaper. And 
the American public knows that. They are not being fooled any longer. 
We are going to change the direction of this war. We cannot continue by 
paying this kind of money at the gas pump funding both sides of the war 
on terror.

One of the things I am going to talk about tomorrow is the fact that 
by being in Iraq, we have stretched our military forces to the breaking 
point, both Active military and our National Guard. The National Guard, 
88 percent of the equipment of the National Guard has been deployed to 
Iraq and hasn't come back. We are coming into a hurricane season. We 
have forest fires that are plaguing the West and Florida. Is our 
National Guard prepared to deal with that?

Their mission, they have three missions. The first mission is 
homeland defense, protecting our country against attacks that might 
happen here, whether it is a 9/11 or some other type of attack. The 
second is civilian support, helping in the event of another Hurricane 
Katrina. The third is to be deployed overseas.

Now, we know that our National Guard, I don't know if, in fact, in 
either of your States, but the Colorado Air National Guard is going to 
be deployed for the third time within the last 3 or 4 years to Iraq, 
which is stretching their ability to deal with things in Colorado or to 
assist other State National Guards in the event of a natural or man-
made disaster.

We as a Congress have an obligation to look after this country and 
not to continue to pursue things where we are


refereeing a sectarian civil war. Things have to change.

I heard our friends on the other side of the aisle in the hour that 
proceeded us saying we have an obligation to protect and defend the 
Constitution, and they are absolutely right. And we have an obligation 
to protect and defend this country. We cannot continue the way we are 
going in Iraq. So the President wants to stay in Iraq. He vetoed a 
timeline that establishes a thoughtful redeployment of our troops. But 
at this point we will let him have, I believe tomorrow's vote will 
allow him, mostly with Republican votes, to have funding through the 
end of September. At that point we will see where this surge is going, 
whether it is better than mixed results. If that is the best you can 
say about the surge, it is mixed results, that is not very good, and it 
is time for a change, and we intend to bring a change to this country.

We all know that one of the issues in Iraq is oil. We can't forget 
about that. We need to decrease our dependence on foreign oil so that 
we don't have to be in a place like Iraq unless it is there for real 
humanitarian reasons and not there for oil or other purposes.
