---
---

# None
## `c754df5ad091ab67a4b8cfc66ce09338`
`Mr. KERRY — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I rise to speak with respect to the Biden 
amendment. I listened carefully to the Senator from Texas, and I must 
say I


agreed with a lot of what she said. One thing I violently disagreed 
with was the notion at the end where she said some may call for 
surrender. I have not heard any U.S. Senator call for surrender. I 
think that is part of the sloganeering and talk, unfortunately, that 
has characterized some of the divisions as people try to find a 
sensible way of finding success.

There are different views about how you find success here. The notion 
of setting a date and requiring leverage out of the Iraqi Government to 
do what it is not doing today is an alternative way of getting them to 
make those decisions and be successful in this endeavor. It is also, in 
the view of many people in the Senate, a more effective way of 
supporting the troops, of honoring their sacrifice with a policy that 
we believe can actually achieve what their sacrifice is being made for.


I caution colleagues about falling into the easy terminology about 
''choosing to lose,'' ''surrender,'' ''walking away,'' and so forth. 
When we leave the President of the United States discretion, as the 
Levin-Reed and other Senators', myself included, amendment did, you are 
leaving the President the discretion to continue to fight al-Qaida, you 
are leaving the President the discretion to finish standing up the 
Iraqi troops with training that is necessary to do that, and you are 
leaving the President full discretion to protect American forces and 
facilities and interests. What other purpose could there be to be in 
Iraq 5/1/2/ years after the start of war, which is when the date would, 
in fact, have cut in to leverage their change?

That is not what we are here; in some ways, that is what we are here 
to debate. Specifically, that is not what we are debating about now 
because this is a Biden amendment which is a different amendment. I 
wish to speak to it for a moment.

I have resisted what has previously been put forward as a partition 
plan because I don't think the United States of America can just walk 
in and ''partition.'' I think that would, in fact, smack of precisely 
part of the ingredients that have created the problem we inherited. 
That is what Winston Churchill and the British did shortly after the 
turn of the last century. The result was that they drew a lot of 
artificial lines between different people and created a state that 
never existed before, and we are inheriting some of the long-term 
impact and realities of those decisions. So we cannot come in and just 
partition it, which is why for over 3 years or more I have been pushing 
for a standing conference, a summit, a peace conference which brings 
the permanent five and the neighbors and the Iraqi factions that are 
struggling all to the table simultaneously to work through diplomacy in 
order to arrive at an understanding of how they can go forward.

Diplomacy has always been the key to trying to find a political 
settlement in Iraq. It has been absent. One of the reasons I am now a 
cosponsor of this different amendment by Senator Biden and others is 
that it does not specifically seek to partition. Not for the long term, 
certainly, and not even in the short term does it seek to partition. 
What it seeks to do is honor what is already in the Iraqi Constitution 
as well as recognize the realities that have developed on the ground.

Some 2 million-plus people have been displaced out of the country, 
some 1.1 million people are displaced within the country, and there has 
been an ethnic cleansing taking place over the course of the last few 
years that has resulted, for instance, in the city of Baghdad 
transitioning from a city that at the beginning of the war was 65 
percent Sunni to now it is 75 percent Shia, and the south is almost 
exclusively Shia, and the Sunni triangle is the Sunni triangle, with 
some exceptions, obviously. We know there are intermarriages. There are 
some pockets of places where there are still larger populations of 
either Sunni or Shia living in a larger either Sunni or Shia surrounded 
area.

But the bottom line is this: There has been a huge shifting of 
populations according to ethnic lines that has taken place. There also 
is an awareness that there is fundamentally a failed government, almost 
failed state. Everyone, from President Bush to Prime Minister Maliki to 
General Petraeus, everybody involved with this at a decisionmaking 
level has acknowledged that there is no military solution, there is 
only a political solution. So if there is no military solution and 
there is only a political solution, what is the political solution? 
Clearly, the political solution--because we have seen over the last 
4/1/2/ years it is not going to be immediately, maybe down the road but 
not immediately--to have a strong central functioning government that 
somehow has the ability to work through the differences of Shia and 
Sunni divisions with a police that is dysfunctional and an army that is 
largely Shia.

One of the reasons the Sunni in Anbar have decided to fight al-Qaida 
and to join forces now is because they are being armed and trained and, 
in effect, are being put in a position to be able to defend their own 
interests within that region. They made a political decision before 
there was any military decision. The political decision they made was 
that they were tired of al-Qaida literally killing their children and 
abusing their villages. They made the political decision that they 
would be better off creating this power base of their own within the 
region, being trained, getting weapons, creating a Sunni capacity to 
respond and defend themselves. So the violence has, indeed, gone down, 
and al-Qaida has been diminished in its efforts in that region.

We have to look at what happened. It was a political decision that 
preceded the presence of surge troops, escalated--whatever you want to 
call it--and that political decision has resulted in a transition. But 
there is nothing on the table that indicates the willingness or 
capacity of the central Government in Baghdad to make a similar kind of 
political decision for the Sunni with respect to the differences 
between Sunni and Shia.

Similarly, you cannot make the difference with respect to the Kurds, 
who are essentially sitting up there in the north, independent of the 
rest of what is happening between Sunni and Shia, dealing with their 
own issue with Turkey and their own issue with some of the dislocation 
that took place in Kirkuk and elsewhere.

What the Biden amendment does is honor, respect, and build on this 
reality which has developed on the ground. It takes the reality of an 
election, which was built on fundamental mistakes by our Government, by 
the Provisional Authority in the beginning that has created a 
fundamentally sectarian electoral base from which the decisionmaking is 
now being made which does not adequately and fully represent the 
interests that have to be reconciled in the end.

So the way you get from here to there, which is the big question--how 
do you get from here to there--is through the diplomatic focus that is 
in this amendment. It calls on the international community to come 
together in the standing conference that many of us have talked about 
for several years, and it calls on that conference to recognize these 
realities and begin to build the local capacity. The Iraqis will decide 
in what structure, how many regions, or what those regions are.

There is a complete respect for the sovereignty of Iraqis to make 
these decisions. What it does is encourage the effort of Americans to 
push in that direction and to create the awareness that may well be the 
best, most effective, most realistic, fastest way of pulling parties 
together to represent the interests that are not currently adequately 
represented within the governing process of Iraq, which is why they 
cannot reach a resolution.


It is not that Iraqi politicians are not, frankly, tough enough to 
make that decision; it is that their constituencies do not want them to 
make that decision. That is the fundamental problem. The Shias are 
fundamentally committed to a Shia Islamic state, and they are not going 
to give up that notion when they do not have to, and they do not have 
to because they have been told that 130,000 American troops are going 
to be there well into next summer, and we will be right where we were 
last year when the country almost fell apart after all of this effort.

If you have that kind of guarantee on the table, what leverage is 
there to make you change in a negotiation? What leverage is there if 
your real goal is to have a Shia Islamic state if 60 percent of the 
population has now been given at this unfair ballot box a power


they could never achieve in 1,300 years of history in their 
relationship with Sunni and Shia? If they have suddenly been given 
that, what is going to make that 60 percent just give it up? They are 
not about to. And the 20 percent Sunni, many of whom are in the state 
of this insurgency, are sitting there saying: We understand that; 
therefore, we are not going to be adequately represented, and because 
we are not going to be adequately represented, we are going to continue 
to fight. There is no ingredient that changes that equation unless you 
get this kind of diplomacy and this kind of recognition of some of 
these realities on the ground.

One wise observer of the region said to me the other day--a former 
Ambassador who has written much about Iraq and thought about it a lot--
they may just have to live apart before they can live together now in 
some of these places.

That is not our goal for the long run. This doesn't destroy the idea 
of a national identity of Iraq. It doesn't undo that. It honors their 
own Constitution, which respects the notion of federalism. It allows 
for those entities to be defined by the Iraqis as to how they share the 
interests within those particular regions on which they decide. It 
also, obviously, calls on an oil law to ultimately be the linchpin of 
these kinds of political opinions because if they don't divide the 
revenues, there is no way, ultimately, you will be able to resolve 
these huge sectarian differences.

I believe this amendment offers us a way forward. I have said since 
day one, back in 2004 when I was running nationally, I said then that 
this could be one of the solutions, the idea of division and federalism 
if the Iraqis decide on it. The only way to get to that point is to 
have the adequacy of diplomacy.

For months, we have talked--the Senator from Virginia, Mr. Warner, 
Senator Lugar, the ranking member of the Foreign Relations Committee, 
Senator Hagel, and others--we have all talked about the need to get 
this adequate diplomacy going, and that is a central component of this 
sense-of-the-Congress amendment which Senator Biden is offering. We all 
know we cannot impose a solution on the Iraqis, and this amendment does 
not do that. We all know we cannot just walk in and divide up the 
country. This amendment does not do that. This respects the sovereignty 
of the Iraqis, and it respects the notion that Iraq is right now a 
failing state with a barely functioning central government that has not 
to date proven its capacity to be able to reconcile the fundamental 
differences over which the civil war is being fought. In fact, Iraq was 
recently ranked as the second weakest state in the world, second only 
to the Sudan. Nothing the Government in Baghdad does in the foreseeable 
future is going to change that reality.

I believe this approach has the best opportunity to try to provide 
some of that stability, to help, to work, to buy time, to bring in the 
international community, to get the Perm Five and the neighbors and 
others working toward the longer term solution which this resolution 
also recognizes is important.

We need to change the mission, yes, and I have voted to do that and 
worked hard with the Senator from Michigan and others to do it. I still 
believe we need a firm deadline because without it, I don't believe we 
have leverage. And in the absence of leverage, we certainly are not 
going to get these kinds of reconciliations and compromises that are 
necessary.

Senator Biden's amendment recognizes that these are not mutually 
exclusive at all. We can push for those other things and still push for 
this sense-of-the-Congress amendment because accepting federalism, in 
fact, makes it easier to change the mission and makes it easier to 
allow the vast majority of our troops to leave a reasonably stable Iraq 
when they do finally leave.

For those reasons, Mr. President, I support this amendment, and I 
urge my colleagues to do the same. I congratulate the Senator from 
Delaware for his efforts on this amendment.