# None
## `c75880de865a09cb14db587578a6e4a2`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I say to my friend from Virginia, thank 
you. I do hope you will take an opportunity to speak because your voice 
needs to be heard.

I say to my good friend Senator Levin, we have had a number of 
chances to work together. I am afraid this is not one of those moments.

What does all of this mean if this language passes? The bill will get 
vetoed. And when you read the language, what is so bad about it? I know 
the intent of the author is to try to make Iraq a better place, and he 
said for as long--I do not want to misquote him--as long as you have 
this many troops in Iraq, they are not going to do what they need to do 
politically. They use the troops as a crutch. I think that is the 
general theme, that we need to somehow let the Iraqi Government know we 
are not going to be there forever with this number of troops. You need 
to step up to the plate, generally speaking. I think that is your view 
of how to put pressure on the Maliki government to reconcile, but, 
again, I will let you speak for yourself.

My view is that the lack of security has been the biggest impediment 
to reconciliation, and the security changes in Iraq give us the best 
hope we have had in 4 years of finding a way forward politically in 
Iraq. If we change by word or deed or perception our commitment to the 
military strategy that is currently working, we would be undercutting 
our best chance for reconciliation.



This amendment, this sense-of-the-Senate amendment, does not do 
anything positive. It sends the signal I have been trying to avoid for 
well over a year now. For 3/1/2/ years we had the wrong strategy. 
Finally we have the right strategy, and in my opinion, the best, 
sensible thing the Senate could do is allow the surge to go forward 
without any interference, give General Petraeus and those under his 
command what they need to finish the job. They have done a wonderful 
job. We are going into the holiday season here and every American, 
every political leader, should celebrate what I think has been the most 
outstanding military operation in counterinsurgency history, and we 
should not have any more debates about that. It is a fact now. We 
should support it without reservation.

This amendment, the sense of the Senate, will send a confusing signal 
about what we intend to do militarily. The Senate, in my opinion, 
should not try to change the mission. The mission is to win. Very 
simply put, what is my goal in Iraq? My goal is to win a war we cannot 
afford to lose, to have a military footprint in Iraq as long as it 
takes to keep al-Qaida on the run, and when we come home, which we 
surely will, to come home with victory in hand and let the military 
commanders who are not worried about the 2008 election decide when that 
transition should take place. Quite frankly, as much as I love my 
colleagues in this body, I do not trust anybody, including myself, to 
transition this mission other than General Petraeus.

This statement will be seized upon by people who are following this 
bill very closely and will send all of the wrong signals, and that is 
why it will be vetoed. The most sensible thing the Senate could do, and 
we should have done this 4 or 5 months ago, is allow the surge to go 
forward without political interference. This is not the time to take 
command of the operation in Iraq from General Petraeus and his command 
team and give it to the Senate.

I hope and pray we will allow the surge to be funded, to go forward, 
and to achieve the goal that is in the national interest of the United 
States, and that is victory, victory over extremism and support of 
moderation. So this attempt at making a political statement is ill-
advised, comes at the wrong time, sends the wrong signal. The most 
sensible thing the Senate could do is reject this and allow our 
military commanders to transition based on facts on the ground, not the 
next poll or the next election.

I yield the floor.