---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO HOUSE AMENDMENT TO  SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 4853, TAX RELIEF, UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE  REAUTHORIZATION, AND JOB CREATION ACT OF 2010
## `c75ab491e93d9596bc5d888630bd21e1`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 16 December 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. I would like to make sure that we classify 
this not as class warfare, if you will, but a Good Samaritan waving the 
flag. And, frankly, if we take the best of America and recognize that 
working people need help, the unemployment insurance that is part of 
this bill is a valid part of it. The child tax credit, the payroll 
holiday, all of those speak to the vision of this Nation that we have 
the willingness to share.

We understand when men and women on the front lines of Iraq and 
Afghanistan, they fight not for any one class or any one community. 
They fight for America. So when we provide an estate tax that blurs the 
understanding of America, that we need an estate tax that is $5 million 
and $10 million, we're not telling the truth. The present law provides 
for most Americans, $3.5 million for an individual, $7 million for 
those who are couples; provides for family businesses; it provide for 
farmers. It works--and it has worked. It is not necessarily the best. 
But to give $25 billion to $28 billion unnecessarily that would go and 
take away from education and Social Security and Medicare, domestic 
spending that is necessary, is a crime.

So this is not about fighting against someone who has a few more 
dollars than the next person. It's to do what we're sent here to do and 
make sure that the capitalistic system works for everybody, including 
those who are now unemployed. Let's get our senses together. Let's get 
the Senate to understand what the real deal is. Fight for everybody, 
not just a small special interest group. It's time to stand up and be 
counted. And I'd like to see this rule go forward simply because I want 
to put it to them that you can't spend $28 billion and waste it on 
those who don't need it.

