# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `c760f7d02b25711df31e748a5c6f9a85`
`Mr. KENNEDY â€” 7 June 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I thought I would just review how we got 
here with this legislation and basically the highlights of it. I think 
it is fairly familiar to the Members, but I think it is always useful 
to have an understanding about the nature of the challenge we are 
facing, the dramatic challenge we are facing in terms of our borders, 
in terms of our national security, and to briefly review for our 
colleagues what we have tried to do with this legislation.

So often during the last days, these debates are focused like a laser 
on a very specific aspect, and we lost the central thrust and the 
purpose of this legislation and perhaps even the need for urgent 
action.

There is a need for urgent action, and the need is now, the need is 
today, the need is tonight because of the kinds of conditions that 
threaten our national security and result in the exploitation of human 
beings and even deaths out in the desert and leave many millions of 
undocumented in fear of their future, and the conditions which threaten 
to undermine agreements that have been made in the AgJOBS area and the 
lost opportunities that would result for many of those who might be 
eligible for the DREAM Act. So I thought I would try to put this into 
some proportion and take a few moments to review again where we are.

I think one of the most dramatic statistics we see, as reflected in 
this chart, is deaths due to unauthorized border crossings. If you look 
at the period of the last 5 years, you will see these numbers continue 
to go up, they continue to escalate. The fact is, there are 425 men, 
women, and children, including infants, who die every single year on 
the border. That is a dramatic figure under any set of circumstances. 
The numbers are going to continue if we fail to take any action. Those 
numbers are going to continue to escalate. They reflect the number of 
deaths at the border. They don't reflect the several hundred thousand 
individuals who are able to come across the border.

What happens when these undocumented come across the border is that 
more often than not we find that these individuals, as the rest of the 
undocumented population, undergo extraordinary exploitation.



We have a picture showing a situation that took place in my own State 
in New Bedford fairly recently, several weeks ago. It is fairly 
typical. There have been these types of raids on these types of places 
in other parts of the country. This is replicated in scores of places 
all over this country. We find these undocumented, now estimated to be 
12.5 million, 13 million of them, who suffer the exploitation we saw in 
New Bedford, MA. This photograph illustrates what is going on in this 
plant. These workers' rights were trampled on. These individuals were 
fined for going to the bathroom, denied overtime pay, docked 15 
minutes' pay for every minute they were late to work, fired for talking 
while on the clock, forced to ration toilet paper, which typically ran 
out before 9 a.m.

Then we look at another industry. You can look here at the 
undocumented workers in the meatpacking industry who are exploited. One 
in ten workers is injured each year by the sharp hooks and knives. They 
suffer exhausting assembly-line speeds and painful damage from 
repetitive motions. That is the old ergonomics issue. Workers are 
subjected to chlorine mists that lead to bloody noses, vomiting, and 
headaches. Undocumented workers don't report their injuries because 
they live in fear that they will lose their jobs and be deported.

The life of fear that is taking place is replicated in communities 
all over this country. We have these several hundred thousand 
individuals coming across the border. We don't know who they are. We 
don't know their names. They are living in different places in our 
country. They are subject to this kind of exploitation, and they pose a 
national security issue and a national security problem. We have the 
exploitation of these workers. We have the deaths that take place in 
the desert, and we also have a national security problem with hundreds 
of thousands of people coming across. So this issue is a national 
security issue. It is a national security problem.

This gives us some idea of what we have included in this legislation. 
We have increased the Border Patrol to 18,000 agents, and with the 
Gregg amendment, it is more than 20,000 now. It has the border 
barriers, including 200 miles of vehicle barriers and 370 miles of 
fencing. It includes radar and camera towers, UAVs. For detention and 
apprehension, it provides the resources to detain up to 27,000 
noncitizens per day rather than arrest and release. This will be for 
detention and apprehension. We have important workplace enforcement 
tools and processing applications of Z status. The Department of 
Homeland Security will process the applications in terms of security. 
So we are coming to the issue of law enforcement and security--national 
security, protecting our borders, and law enforcement. We are going to 
develop a process.

This legislation is about respect for the law--law at the border, law 
in employment, and law for those individuals who are here and are 
undocumented. They are going to have to live with this law which 
ensures that they are going to suffer a penalty if they expect to stay 
here and live here.

We have a virtual lawlessness out there on the border which is a 
threat to our security and a lawlessness in so many areas of employment 
which is promoting the exploitation of the human condition.

We have this extraordinary atmosphere of fear by the 12/1/2/ million 
individuals who live here; they are in fear because they are illegal. 
We are trying to legalize the process and get respect for the law and 
try to ensure our national security. So we do that, as I mentioned, at 
the border, which is important.

As I have mentioned during the course of these discussions, the one 
thing we have learned following hour after hour after hour of hearings 
on this matter is that just doing border protection is not enough. If 
you were able to put 1,800 miles of fencing along the Southwest border, 
as has been pointed out by Governor Napolitano, who is so familiar with 
this, along with others who have made their views very well known, you 
have to not only have a border, but no matter how tall your fence is 
going to be, the ladder will always be a little taller. You have to 
have strong law enforcement, but you are going to have to have internal 
employment enforcement as well, work site enforcement, as well as 
regularizing those here at the time. So we have the work site 
employment; employers must verify the identity of work authorization of 
all employees; there are increases in civil and criminal penalties 
against employers who hire unauthorized aliens knowingly, or with 
reckless disregard; and it includes measures to prevent identity theft 
and fraud.

It is dramatically different from the 1986 act. We here on the floor 
don't want to repeat 1986. That legislation was signed into law by 
President Reagan and enforced by a Republican administration from 1986 
to 1992. I voted against that legislation for many of the reasons I am 
mentioning now. You had absolutely no workforce enforcement, none at 
all, virtually no requirements. We see the problems we had. We had 
abuse of that system.

We have in this legislation, as I pointed out previously, addressed 
those kinds of problems that lent themselves to fraud after 1986. We 
have tough enforcement in the workplace. We have inspectors, close to a 
thousand inspectors, who are going to go in and look at these 
employment sites and make sure the kinds of protections that are 
guaranteed under this legislation are respected. We are going to insist 
that with any kind of employment program, they are going to get the 
protections of the prevailing wage and those are not going to be taken 
by surveys that are done by the private sector; they will be done by 
the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

We will have protections under OSHA, and workers compensation, and 
whistleblower protection is in this legislation for any individuals 
working in those sites. For the first time, whistleblower protections 
will be there for those individuals. We are going to have a thousand 
inspectors who will be inspecting the work sites to make sure that the 
rights of individuals who are going to come into this country will be 
preserved.

At the present time, we find out the differences. This chart shows 
how this process and system must work. If they are going to be in the 
temporary program, the employer must advertise before applying for a 
worker. The employer must hire any qualified American applicants before 
applying for a temporary worker. Temporary workers are restricted to 
areas with high unemployment, and employers cannot undercut American 
wages by paying less to temporary workers.

Now we know even for the temporary workers, they are to be treated 
under the labor laws, with those protections, and they are not now. The 
borders are broken. If we don't pass this legislation, that is going to 
continue. That is the alternative--the kind of exploitation that exists 
now in so many communities, the fear, the exploitation, the harassment, 
and the driving down of wages, which threatens American wages. All of 
that exists now.

So we are ensuring, again, respect for the law in coming into this 
country, the law at the border, the law at the work site, and the law 
in transition. This chart is a good explanation made by Secretary 
Chertoff:




 Enforcement alone will not do the job of securing our 


 borders. Enforcement at the border will only be successful in 


 the long term if it is coupled with a more sensible approach 


 to the 10 to 12 million illegal aliens in the country today, 


 and the many more who will attempt to migrate into the United 


 States for economic reasons.


That is what we have heard from the Department of Homeland Security 
time in and time out--that there has to be a comprehensive approach to 
this issue. We have to bring people out of the shadows. They are going 
to have to pay a penalty. We insist that they pay a penalty. Then, 
rather than let them go to the front of the list, they have to go to 
the end of the list in order to begin a process--if they are able to 
demonstrate the payment of the penalty, if they demonstrate they can 
learn and are willing to learn English, if they are able to demonstrate 
they have long work experience, and if they can demonstrate they are 
not involved in criminal activity. We know 70,000 permanent resident 
aliens are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan since these wars started--
70,000. So we know that so many of these families who are coming here--
why do they come? Basically, what are their values? What are the values 
we consider positive in the United States? We admire people who work 
hard. That is an important factor. That is essential in terms of the


achievement of the American dream. We admire people who are devoted to 
family and their children.

We find so many of these undocumented, but why do they come here? It 
is because they want to have a better life for their children. How do 
we know that? Because there is more than $40 billion returned by these 
immigrants to the countries of Central and South America every single 
year. These are individuals who are making a total of $10,000, and $40 
billion is returned to their countries. To whom? It is returned to 
their families and children. They work hard, they are devoted to their 
children and families and have an extraordinary dedication to their 
parents and grandparents, caring for them. Those are the positive 
qualities that all of us admire.

On the other hand, they have broken the law, so, therefore, they have 
to pay a penalty. Why did they break the law? It is because we have the 
magnet of the American economy drawing them here. That magnet doesn't 
pay any penalty. These people risk their lives to get in here. They 
suffer the risk of exploitation. And even through all of that, they 
return the resources back to their families. So it is the magnet of the 
American economy, but still we are making them pay--not the employer, 
the magnet, or the American economy, but they make an extraordinary 
contribution. Sure, there are some bad apples. But they make an 
extraordinary contribution--the immigrants--just as all of our parents 
and grandparents and forebears have made in terms of this country. This 
is what we have done. We have seen what happened at the border.


We have talked about what is happening in terms of the employment 
situation. We know what is going on, in terms of the kind of 
distinction between the past and present. Those individuals, the 12/1/
2/ million people who are here--this is the explanation of what we call 
the Z visa eligibility: They entered the United States before January 
2007. They remained employed and continuously present and not a 
national security threat. There has to be a review. They have to 
register--the 18 months--to make sure they are registered and are not 
any national security threat. There can be no serious criminal record 
in or out of the United States. We have outlined that. We have gone 
into detail and explanation in earlier kinds of considerations of 
amendments. If they have committed serious crimes, they are out; they 
don't come back. We have explained that and we have gone through that 
time and time again through the course of this debate.

They have to pay the processing fees of $1,500; State impact 
assistance fee, $500; and a penalty of $1,000. All of that--some 
$3,000--is not even getting you down the road toward a green card and 
citizenship. The $500 from 12 million people--$6 billion--goes to 
States that have the great impact to help them in terms of offsetting 
any of their additional burdens, in terms of health care and education. 
That is not an insignificant amount of resources. We went through 
during yesterday's discussion and debate how, by and large, these 
individuals are healthier, and we also went into about how they had 
utilized the health care system, and it shows that is effectively an 
incidental additional kind of expense. They must comply with the 
Selective Service Act, submit fingerprints and undergo a background 
check, and they must get in the back of the line for a green card. That 
means, for all of those who have been waiting in line, about 4 million 
people who have relatives here and have petitioned for them to come 
into the United States many, without this legislation, would have 
virtually no opportunity to do so.

They will have that opportunity to come into the United States over 
an 8-year period. Then, after that 8-year period, these individuals we 
have discussed here could begin to move, and depending on their work 
record and their participation and sense of community, they could get 
on path toward a green card. Then it takes 5 more years to become a 
citizen. The earliest is maybe 13 or 14 years before they would be able 
to have that opportunity for citizenship. It is more distant than that 
for the majority of the people. All the time they have to behave and 
follow the law and pay the kinds of penalties that will be included.

Mr. President, other colleagues wish to address the Senate, so I will 
be brief. I give credit to our friend and colleague from Illinois, 
Senator Durbin, who reminded us about the opportunities we have in 
creating an educational pathway for the children of the undocumented. 
We know the children who come in here are coming in through the action 
of their parents. We understand that. It is through the actions of the 
parents. The DREAM Act students are eligible for Z visas and permanent 
residence if the student came in as a child under age 16 and has good 
moral character, or attends college or enlists in the military for 2 
years. I know, as chairman of the Education Committee, the challenge we 
have in terms of having those students--Hispanic students and others 
from other cultures and traditions, in terms of the education 
experience. Having a good education opportunity for those children in 
this country is key to our national security, key to the success of our 
economy, and key to the success of the hopes and dreams of these 
children.

Too often, half of the children from the Hispanic tradition drop out 
before they are ever able to be successful. But we know that others who 
complete the educational system and graduate--in my home State of 
Massachusetts, we have seen so many in Lowell, Lawrence, New Bedford, 
and other places who have children from undocumented families end up 
being valedictorians, class presidents, and extraordinary leaders. Then 
the opportunity comes for continued education and it is virtually 
closed down because they are denied that opportunity.

Under the DREAM Act, this gives them the opportunity for in-State 
help and assistance. That is what this bill is about, too. It is about 
hope in terms of the future. It is about hope. It is relieving the 
kinds of anxiety those 12 million or 13 million undocumented are 
experiencing this afternoon and will experience tonight when they have 
a knock on the door and wonder if ICE is coming there to arrest and 
deport them, separate their families, and send them back--even after 
they have been here for a number of years.

We don't hear much discussion about that. Everything seems to be 
pretty cut and dried around here. That is a major factor. How many of 
us have met some of these individuals, the undocumented? I did just 3 
or 4 days ago, returning here at the airport. I talked to a person who 
has been here 28 years, as have his two brothers. The brothers have 
been able to get green cards, but he had not. He talked about the fear 
he and his family have at this time of being arrested and deported.

In this legislation is another extremely important provision. That is 
what we call the AgJOBS bill. I see the Senator from California here, 
Senator Feinstein, who has done an extraordinary job in helping to 
bring this part of the legislation before the Senate, with Senator 
Craig, whom I commend for his diligence. They have been the real 
leaders in this proposal.


For many of us, to go back to the time of the Bracero Program--I can 
remember being a member of our committee in the early 1960s when we had 
hearings in southern Texas and also in California about the Bracero 
Program. Few times in our history did we have the kind of exploitation 
of individuals--slavery certainly; slavery, yes; slavery first--but 
after that, the Bracero exploitation was one of the darkest sides of 
American history in the exploitation of individuals.

There are a number of blemishes out there. We can talk about those--
American Indians and others--but this was really one of the very worst. 
We took time to get rid of it, and we did get rid of that. Then we went 
through a long period of enormous tension between the workers and the 
growers. We all remember the extraordinary contribution of Cesar 
Chavez, the dignity he gave to so many of these farm workers. That kind 
of tension existed for years.

Now, finally, in recent years there has been an agreement between 
these two very strong groups who are committed in their own ways to 
their own views and philosophies. They have come together and have 
agreed on a pathway that will ensure success and give these workers the 
respect and dignity they have been denied. It is called the AgJOBS 
bill.

A great deal of credit goes to our colleague in the House, Howard 
Berman, who spent years working on this legislation. That legislation 
has had 65, 66


cosponsors, but we have been unable to get it before the Senate for 
ratification of that program. It is included in this legislation.

If this legislation passes, the message it sends to about 900,000 
agricultural workers, who, again, have been exploited, and to their 
families, is the fact that over the next 8 years, they are going to 
have to work and continue to work hard. They can work in agriculture. 
They have some opportunity to work outside agriculture too. They have 
to play by the rules, demonstrate they are paying their taxes, work 
hard and pay the fines and penalties, but they have some opportunity to 
move forward after all these years, get a green card, and then 5 years 
later move forward. So it is an enormous period of hope for all those 
individuals.

This legislation is about dealing in a tough way with a tough problem 
at the border. We do that by taking the best advice, the best 
recommendations, the best suggestions from the best people who know 
about homeland security. We have done that and worked closely together. 
I don't think there are any differences on that point.

We need to have tough enforcement in the workplace, and we have 
achieved that. It can be improved further, but it has been achieved, 
and we have talked about it.

We have also provided a pathway for earned legalization after these 
individuals pay the fines, significant fines, in many ways, fines for 
an average family who makes about $10,000 to $12,000 a year, that 
represents years of work with their kinds of salaries. They have to go 
to the end of the line. They have to demonstrate good work experience. 
They have to earn, earn, earn, earn, earn the ability to adjust their 
relationship with our country.

We know these families. We have seen them in our churches. We have 
seen them in our shops. We have seen them in the Armed Forces of the 
United States of America, and they serve with great pride and dignity 
and they want to contribute and be a part of the American dream like 
everyone else. And we are giving them that opportunity.

If we vote no on this legislation, we are dampening and canceling 
that opportunity, and we are returning to the law of the jungle because 
that is what it is. It is a jungle on that border.

Every day we continue without this legislation, we have these well-
trained, well-disciplined, highly motivated border guards chasing 
people across the desert who are landscapers. They ought to be looking 
for the terrorists, the smugglers, the lawbreakers. That is who they 
should be looking after. If we don't pass this legislation, they will 
continue to be looking out after the landscapers instead of the 
terrorists, instead of the smugglers, and instead of those who threaten 
the security of the people of this country.

That is it. Take your choice. Anyone can flyspeck this legislation. I 
am not accusing those who differ with me on particular proposals being 
necessarily flyspeckers, but sometimes we have to make a judgment. 
Sometimes we have to make a decision. Sometimes there has to be 
finality. We have debated this issue on the floor of the Senate for 2 
weeks. We debated it last year for 2 weeks. We are not just coming at 
this legislation for the first time. We have debated just about every 
feature of this program, somewhat different from last year, but the 
themes are the same, the arguments are the same, the amendments are 
almost the same.

The only question is the will of this body and the will to make a 
judgment, a decision that we are going to clean up our borders, get a 
sense of law in terms of those borders and in the employment areas, get 
a respect for the law from those who have been undocumented; they are 
going to pay their price, give a sense of hope to the young people who 
can benefit, and give a sense of dignity and pride to those who work in 
the fields across this country in AgJOBS.

This is going to be an important vote this evening. If we are talking 
about a vote about America's future, this is it. This is it. This is it 
tonight. We can all find the excuses. We all can find the reasons to 
say no. We can all find different aspects of this legislation with 
which we differ, but underneath, this is a proposal that is deeply 
rooted in remedy, one of the great national challenges we have--broken 
borders and a broken immigration system.

This legislation is a downpayment that the American people are asking 
and demanding of the Senate of the United States that we move forward 
on. Let's not disappoint them.