---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `c779fa8d2a2f6da3dfacae8658a8e48d`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, in 1992, a Mississippi lawyer named 
Leslie Southwick wanted to serve his country in the Armed Forces. At 
42, he was too old to do so, but service to others is a duty that 
Leslie Southwick has always taken very seriously, whether in the 
Justice Department or on the State bench or with Habitat for Humanity 
or in doing charity work for inner-city communities. So in 1992, 42-
year-old Leslie Southwick sought an age waiver to join the U.S. Army 
Reserves. The country had the good sense and the good fortune to grant 
his request.

Leslie Southwick continued to serve in the Armed Forces after he was 
elected to the State court of appeals in 1994. He conscientiously 
performed his military and judicial duties, even using his vacation 
time from the court to satisfy the required service period in the 
Mississippi National Guard.

In 2003, Lieutenant Colonel Southwick volunteered for a line combat 
unit--this is 2003--a line combat unit, the 155th Separate Armor 
Brigade. His commanding officer, MG Harold A. Cross, notes that his 
decision ''was a courageous move, as it was widely known at the time 
that the 155th was nearly certain to mobilize for overseas duty in the 
near future.''

Colleagues such as attorney Brian Montague were not surprised. This 
is what Brian Montague had to say: ''Despite love of wife and 
children,'' Leslie Southwick volunteered for a line combat unit over a 
safer one ''because of a commitment to service to country above self-
interest.''

In August of 2004, Leslie Southwick's unit mobilized in support of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. His commanding officer states that he 
distinguished himself at forward operating bases near Najaf. Another 
officer, LTC Norman Gene Hortman, Jr., describes Southwick's service in 
Iraq as follows:




 Service in a combat zone is stressful and challenging, 


 oftentimes bringing out the best or the worst in a person. 


 Leslie Southwick endured mortar and rocket attacks, travel 


 through areas plagued with IEDs, extremes in temperature, 


 harsh living conditions--the typical stuff of Iraq. He 


 shouldered a heavy load of regular JAG officer duties, which 


 he performed excellently. He also took on the task of 


 handling the claims of the numerous Iraqi civilians who had 


 been injured or who had property losses due to accidents 


 involving the U.S. military. . . .This involved long days of 


 interviewing Iraqi civilian claimants, many of whom were 


 children, widows, and elderly people, to determine whether 


 the U.S. military could pay their claims. Leslie always 


 listened to these Iraqi claimants patiently and treated them 


 with the utmost respect and kindness. He did this not just 


 out of a sense of duty, but because he is a genuinely good 


 and caring person. His attitude left a very positive 


 impression on all those that Leslie came in contact with, 


 especially the Iraqi civilians he helped. This in turn helped 


 ease tensions in our unit's area of operations . . . and 


 ultimately saved American lives.


Lieutenant Colonel Hortman concludes that Leslie Southwick ''has the 
right stuff'' for the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals--''profound 
intelligence, good judgment, broad experience, and an unblemished 
reputation.'' Lieutenant Colonel Hortman added:




 I know him and can say these things without reservation. 


 Anyone who says otherwise simply does not know him.


Stuart Taylor writes in the National Journal that Leslie Southwick 
''wears a distinctive badge of courageous service to his country,'' and 
that he ''is a professionally well-qualified and personally admirable'' 
nominee for the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals.

Judge Southwick does not seek thanks or notoriety or charity for his 
military and other civic service. He asks to be judged fairly--to be 
judged on the facts, to be judged on his record. It is the same 
standard he has applied to others as a judge, a military officer, a 
teacher, and a mentor.

It is a standard for which he is well known and admired. By that 
standard, he is superbly fit to continue to serve his country, this 
time on the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals.

His colleagues know this, as do his home State Senators. His peers 
within the State bar know this. They honored him as one of the finest 
jurists, declaring him ''an example of judicial excellence; a leader in 
advancing the quality and integrity of justice; and a person of high 
ideals, character, and integrity.''

The American Bar Association knows this as well. It has twice given 
him its highest rating, ''well qualified,'' and in so doing found him 
to be exemplary in


the areas of compassion, open-mindedness, freedom from bias, and 
commitment to equal justice under law.

Even Democrats on the Judiciary Committee know this because just last 
fall, all of them--again, all of them--looked at his record and 
approved him for a lifetime position on the Federal bench.

But it appears that Democrats on the committee may now apply a 
different standard to Judge Southwick. A member of the Democratic 
leadership who serves on that committee states that what is 
''determinative'' is whether a judicial nominee is perceived to be 
fair.

The notion that perception, rather than reality, will be dispositive 
in evaluating a nominee is at odds with the principle of the rule of 
law. And it is not fair to manufacture a false impression of someone 
through insinuation and innuendo, and then use that falsehood to defeat 
him. In the case of Judge Southwick, the sudden ''perception'' about 
his fairness is driven by those who do not even know him, and it is 
disproved by his long record by those who know him very well.


All nominees deserve to be treated with dignity, but a selfless 
public servant and veteran such as Leslie Southwick deserves to be 
treated with respect as well. It is disrespectful for the same members 
of the Judiciary Committee who unanimously supported his nomination 
last fall to now turn around and unanimously oppose him. There is only 
one change in Judge Southwick's credentials between last year and now. 
The ABA, hardly a bastion of conservatism, has actually increased--
increased--its rating for him from ''well qualified'' to ''unanimously 
well qualified.'' Now what that means is that every single member of 
the ABA committee evaluating Judge Southwick's credentials for the 
Fifth Circuit, every single one of them gave him the highest possible 
rating--a unanimous ''well qualified'' rating.

A party-line committee vote would not be a ''perceived'' flipflop or 
a ''perceived'' injustice but an actual one. This is not a question of 
perception; this is a question of actually ignoring the reality of this 
man's record. It would make clear that despite the promise of a new 
start on judicial nominations that the Senate majority leader and I 
have been hoping for all year, when push comes to shove, we will treat 
nominees unfairly based upon a manufactured perception.

This sad standard is not only unjust, but it is actually unwise. As 
we all know, once established, precedents in the Senate are extremely 
difficult to undo. Establishing a third-party perception standard on 
the Southwick nomination will be bad for this Congress and really, more 
importantly, I will say to our colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle, bad for future Congresses regardless of who is in the White 
House and which home State Senators support a nomination. The standard 
we set now with a Republican in the White House and a Democratic Senate 
might well be the standard applied in a future Congress if, for 
example, it were a Democrat in the White House and a Democratic Senate.

Because such a decision will affect us all, and for the worst, it is 
appropriate for the Senate collectively to express its view on whether 
it wishes to go down this path, whether it wishes to undo the good work 
and good will that brought us back from the precipice just a few years 
ago. It is for that purpose that I have offered the sense of the Senate 
on the Southwick nomination. I encourage my colleagues to review it, to 
review the record, and to think long and hard about whether we want to 
deny this good man an opportunity for a vote here in the Senate.

Again, Mr. President, at the risk of being redundant, let me just say 
that the majority leader and I have been working hard all year to try 
to improve the confirmation process. I think that is a very wise thing 
for the majority to do because someday they may have the White House 
again, in spite of the best efforts of people like me. Once we 
establish an unrealistic standard for the treatment of qualified 
judicial nominees for the circuit court, there will be a great 
temptation on the part of the other side of the aisle to apply the same 
standard in the future.

There are plenty of grievances from the past. We have had Republican 
complaints about Democrats and Democratic complaints about Republicans. 
I guess the fundamental question is, When do we stop it? When do we 
stop it? For the sake of the institution, for the sake of the country, 
and for the sake of the party that may not currently occupy the White 
House, when do we stop?

It strikes many of us that the Leslie Southwick nomination is a good 
time to stop it because we all know he is extraordinarily well 
qualified. There is really no serious argument otherwise. And if we 
can't stop it now, Mr. President, when will we stop it?

So I think this will give us an opportunity to let all of the Senate 
express themselves, rather than just a few in one committee, on the 
appropriateness of this nominee.

With that, I yield the floor.