---
---

# IRAQ
## `c7812642dfb0f8ad4d506df67cd07484`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. I thank the Chair.

Madam President, to pick up where the good Senator from New York 
stopped, we had yesterday at Saint Francis Xavier in Hyannis, MA--I was 
unable to attend because I was here in the Senate--the funeral of a 
young serviceman who was lost. At the end of last week, a young 
serviceman named Callahan from Woburn, MA--his fourth time in Iraq, a 
father of four--was lost.

Woburn, MA, is a very interesting blue-collar community. They had the 
highest percentage of casualties in the Vietnam war of any community in 
my State. They had high school class after high school class that 
joined the Marines and suffered devastating casualties in Vietnam. It 
is also a storybook community on civic action--water contamination in 
that community resulted in the deaths of a number of children there. 
But the community is made up of extraordinary men and women and 
families. They are weathering through this extreme, extraordinary 
tragedy.

Sixty-four brave soldiers from Massachusetts have been lost, killed, 
and this is the overriding, overarching issue in question: What can we 
do after 4 years where our service men and women have done everything 
we have asked them to do? They have served in Iraq longer than it took 
to end World War II, to sweep through Africa, to cross Western Europe, 
cross through the Pacific, and they are still out there. Many of us 
believe, as we mentioned a few moments ago, that the solution lies not 
in the increasing surge but in a political resolution and determination 
and decisions made by the Iraqis for their own future. It is, after 
all, their country.

Let me talk for a few minutes about the other costs of this war, the 
$200 billion which is in the President's budget for the war in Iraq and 
what the implications of that will be, so that Americans can understand 
more completely the costs.

It comes from children's health, as the President's budget underfunds 
the CHIP program by $8 billion. That program has been extremely 
successful in providing health care to low-income children.

Will the Chair let me know when I have 2 minutes remaining?