# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `c782acf9975615efa2766b6f4571e05c`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Mr. Speaker, today, this body once again 
considered legislation to provide funding for the ongoing military 
efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. In the final analysis, this was one 
funding bill for two very distinct conflicts. In Afghanistan, the men 
and women of our military continue to perform an important mission by 
taking action against our enemies in the country that served as host to 
the Al Qaeda organization that attacked the United States of America on 
September 11th, 2001. The importance of the work they are doing with 
complete skill, courage, and professionalism has only been underscored 
by the recent resurgence of Taliban activity, which must be quelled. I 
am fully supportive of them and their mission. I have voted to provide 
funding solely for our military activities in Afghanistan, and would do 
so again if such a bill were to come before the House.

However the funding measure before us today also included funding for 
the war in Iraq without accompanying conditions on those funds or a 
timeline for withdrawal of American forces. I remain opposed to the 
President's mistaken war in Iraq, which has now claimed over 4,000 
American lives, undermined our military and ability to respond to other 
threats abroad, and cost hundreds of billions of dollars that could 
have been used to meet pressing needs at home. The men and women in 
uniform serving in Iraq have performed brilliantly and heroically. It 
is time for the Iraqi government to take responsibility for Iraq and 
for America to start bringing our troops home. I cannot support the 
appropriation of additional funds without timelines that would begin to 
wind down our military involvement in Iraq, and therefore could not 
vote for that portion of the funding legislation considered by the 
House tonight.

However, I am pleased that I was able to vote for a separate piece of 
legislation tonight that addresses several important priorities here at 
home. Specifically, I am pleased that we were able to consider 
legislation to expand veterans educational benefits in order to honor 
the service of our men and women in uniform and give them every 
opportunity to succeed in life after they have served. Also included in 
this bill was a desperately needed extension of unemployment benefits 
that will help struggling middle class families weather the current 
economic storm. In addition, the piece of legislation that I was able 
to vote for this evening included a moratorium on six of the seven 
Medicaid regulations the Bush administration has unwisely decided to 
implement recently, I would have greatly preferred if the legislation 
prevented all seven regulations from coming into effect. Outpatient 
Graduate Medical Education is a vital component of medical education, 
and by disallowing Medicaid funding for it, this regulation will cost 
New York State as much as $300 million per year. On multiple occasions, 
both the House and Senate have passed a moratorium on all seven of 
these regulations overwhelmingly. I don't understand why we have 
decided to allow these unwise cuts to graduate medical education to 
continue now, when the votes exist to prevent it. However, I will 
continue to push for this final moratorium to be implemented and for 
this unwise rule to be overturned.