---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c79ba8aa13f50b932e099ba13ce71b68`
`Mr. HULSHOF — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. HULSHOF. Madam Speaker, on November 19 of 1863, President Abraham 
Lincoln rose on the platform at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, following a 
2-hour oration by Edward Everett, and gave a brief but very eloquent 
discourse that has become a prominent


part of our country's heritage. At the dedication of the Gettysburg 
National Cemetery he acknowledged, ''The world will little note nor 
long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did 
here. It is, for us, the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the 
unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly 
advanced.''

Can we find some poignancy today in those simple words uttered 7 
score and 4 years ago? What is the unfinished work that confronts this 
body politic, and more to the point, does this resolution promulgated 
unilaterally by the majority advance the cause for freedom for which 
3,000 of our countrymen have given the last full measure of devotion?

For all of these rhetorical meanderings that have occurred lo these 
many hours, the responsibility for the current state of affairs in Iraq 
rests squarely with the majority of Members who serve in this Congress 
of the United States. Back on December 17, 1998, do you recall House 
Resolution 612 which declared in pertinent part, ''Resolved, by the 
House of Representatives that . . . the Congress reaffirms that it 
should be the policy of the United States to support efforts to remove 
the regime headed by Saddam Hussein from power' and to promote the 
emergence of a democratic government to replace that regime.'''

I note that the gentleman who just spoke, along with 400 other 
Members of the Congress, supported that resolution as the policy of the 
United States, and thereafter in October of 2002, Congress, both the 
House and the Senate, approved the resolution approving the use of 
force and military action necessary to effectuate that policy of regime 
change.

Now, deposing the former dictator, in relative terms, was the easy 
part, yanking him from his hiding place, a hole in the ground. He 
eventually stood trial in the dock as a common accused, was judged by 
his countrymen according to the rule of law, and held to account for 
the brutality of his many crimes.

A second policy objective, promoting a democratic government has been 
the harder path, but though difficult, is it no less important? As my 
friend and colleague, my classmate from New Mexico (Mrs. Wilson) so 
passionately and persuasively annunciated yesterday, America has vital 
national interests in Iraq.

Does anyone argue the contrary? Can we not all agree that we must 
deny al Qaeda sanctuary in Iraq? Do we not further agree that Iraq must 
not be the source of instability in the Middle Eastern region?

Well, if we can agree on these points, can the majority make a 
legitimate case that this resolution accomplishes either of those 
important interests? President Bush recently nominated General David 
Petraeus as the new Commander of Multinational Forces in Iraq. Widely 
known as a brilliant tactician in the area of counterinsurgency, 
General Petraeus was unanimously confirmed by the other body.

Today, however, the majority desires to deny this extremely capable 
commander the means to accomplish his objective. Isn't it incumbent 
upon us, as Lincoln urged, to remain dedicated to the task remaining 
before us? Haven't many in this body expressed frustration that the 
Iraqi Government has put limitations on the rules of engagement of our 
troops in our field, not allowing our military to hunt down the enemy 
because insurgents had escaped to a safe haven in a region deemed off-
limits by the Iraqi Government?

Well, isn't the majority party doing exactly the same thing half a 
world away with this resolution? Isn't denying military additional 
reinforcements deemed necessary by our generals in the field hampering 
our last best chance for success?

Two nights ago I was moved by the quiet eloquence of the 
distinguished gentleman from New York (Mr. McHugh) when he made the 
simple yet ironic observation: At no time in our Nation's history has 
this House considered a public rebuke of a sitting Commander in Chief 
for the manner in which a war has been conducted that Congress itself 
has authorized.

On that score alone, I find this resolution breathtaking in its 
audacity. If I may be allowed to paraphrase the Great Emancipator, it 
is true, the world will little note nor long remember what we say here, 
but the world will never forget what we do here.

I urge rejection of this resolution.