---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `c79cc6a77c494b6ea206b34419824423`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. I will be glad to yield to Senator Nelson if he wishes 
to share some thoughts.

The amendment offered today, simply put, acknowledges that we have a 
growing threat to peace and security that arises from Iran's nuclear 
and missile program, and this amendment would make it the policy of the 
United States to develop effective defenses against this threat as soon 
as possible.

The amendment also emphasizes the need to ensure that the defenses we 
deploy are coordinated with existing programs of our NATO allies. A 
number of Senators and Members of the House want to be sure that we 
coordinate with the NATO allies, and this amendment would call for 
that.

Sadly, the Islamic Republic of Iran continues to threaten the United 
States and our allies and that threat must be recognized and 
confronted. My amendment signals the resolve of the United States to do 
that. At a time when Iran is openly threatening to destroy the United 
States and our various allies--and is providing weapons, such as 
explosively formed penetrators, or EFPs, which we have pretty clearly 
traced to Iran today, and that are killing our soldiers in Iraq and 
Afghanistan--demonstrating our understanding of the seriousness of 
their threat and their purpose is critical for us to have clear 
thinking and sound policy. So I appreciate my colleagues, such as 
Senator Lieberman, who spoke eloquently and offered an amendment on the 
need to confront Iran's support of worldwide terrorism, which we voted 
on yesterday--in a very strong vote.

I see missile defense as another facet of confronting and facing this 
threat. Even in the Middle East, where anti-Israel sentiments are all 
too common, Iran is the only country in the Middle East where the 
President openly calls for the destruction of Israel. Shortly after 
taking office in 2005, Ahmadi-Nejad, the President, rallied supporters 
at a conference, and the conference was called ''A World Without 
Zionism.'' In that speech he said, ''The current skirmishes in the 
occupied land are part of a war of destiny. The outcome of hundreds of 
years of war will be defined in Palestinian land. As the Imam said''--
and here he is referring to the Ayatollah Khomeini--''Israel must be 
wiped off the map.''

But Israel isn't the only target of Iran's crash program to develop 
long-range missiles with nuclear warheads--long-range missiles they are 
now developing. He is developing also nuclear warheads. In the same 
speech Ahmadi-Nejad was quoted as saying this: ''Anybody who recognizes 
Israel will burn in the fire of the Islamic nation's fury.''

That includes, of course, the United States--us--and our allies in 
Europe and the Middle East. For anyone who doubts that Ahmadi-Nejad's 
threat was meant to include America, he has also been quoted as saying 
this: ''And God willing, with the force of God behind it, we shall soon 
experience a world without the United States and Zionism.''

A world without the United States. It does not get much more 
straightforward than that. Arnaud de Borchgrave, an experienced world 
observer and editor at large of the Washington Times and United Press 
International, had a piece in the Washington Times yesterday, and he 
pointed out some of the examples of the kind of extremism, real 
extremism, we have seen from the Iranian leadership.

Now, let me say this: The Iranian people are good people. They have 
quite an educated population, certainly for that area of the world. 
There is no need and no justification for Iranian leadership to betray 
those people, the people of that historic nation, with these kinds of 
policies. In truth, President Ahmadi-Nejad and certain clerics are 
damaging the history, the economy, the people, and the reputation of 
Iran. There is no reason for this. It should not continue. 
Unfortunately, it is reality. And while we can hope for change, change 
does not seem likely in the short run.

While the people of Iran may, and I think do, oppose this extremism, 
the President and the extremists, certain mullahs and others, seem to 
be firmly in control of the country and determined to pursue a radical 
and extremist ideology and policy. It is not only a tragedy for Iran 
that this is occurring but for the whole world.

Mr. de Borchgrave lists some of the statements that are more than 
sufficient to alert the world to the dangers and the intentions of the 
leaders of Iran today. This is what he wrote yesterday, and I quote:




 Whether Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadi-Nejad said he wants 


 to wipe Israel off the map is still contested, even by anti-


 mullah Iranian-Americans. But that he wants to wipe out the 


 Jewish state, there can be no doubt. As he completes his 


 visits to every Iranian town, the collection of his 


 pronunciamentos is edifying reading.



 Culled from a wide variety of sources, ranging from the 


 Agence France Presse, the French national news agency, to the 


 London Daily Telegraph, to the Suddeutsche Zeitung Online, to 


 France's Le Monde and Liberation, Mr. Ahmadi-Nejad spells out 


 the target and the strategy: ''This regime--here he is 


 talking about Israel--will one day disappear. The Zionist 


 regime is a rotten tree that will be blown away by one storm. 


 The countdown for the destruction of Israel has begun. 


 Zionists are the personification of Satan.''


He goes on to say:




 In the case of any unwise move by the fake regime of 


 Israel, Iran's response will be so destructive and quick the 


 regime will regret its move forever. The west invented the 


 myth of the massacre of the Jews (in World War II) and placed 


 it above Allah, religions, and profits.


So he continues to assert that the Holocaust was a myth, invented by 
the West.

What about his strategic plan?




 We don't shy away from declaring Islam is ready to rule the 


 world. The wave of the Islamist revolution will soon reach 


 the entire world. Our revolution's main mission is to pave 


 the way for the reappearance of the 12th Imam, the Mahdi, a 


 5-year-old boy who vanished 1,100 years ago and who will lead 


 the world into an era of peace and prosperity, but not before 


 the planet is first convulsed by death and destruction.


He goes on to say:




 Soon, Islam will become the dominating force in the world 


 occupying first place in the number of followers among other 


 religions. Is there a craft more beautiful, more sublime, 


 more divine than the craft of giving yourself to martyrdom 


 and becoming holy? Do not doubt, Allah will prevail and Islam 


 will conquer mountaintops of the entire world. Islam can 


 recruit hundreds of suicide bombers a day. Suicide is an 


 invincible weapon. Suicide bombers in this land showed us the 


 way and they enlighten our future. The will to commit suicide 


 is one of the best ways of life.


This is the President of a country that is steadfastly moving forward 
to develop nuclear weapons and steadfastly advancing its ability to 
launch intercontinental ballistic missiles.

What does he say about nuclear power?




 By the grace of Allah we will be a nuclear power and Iran 


 does not give a damn about the IEA, the International Energy 


 Agency, their demands to freeze enrichment of nuclear fuel. 


 Iran does not give a damn about resolutions.


That is the U.N. Resolutions. Those are his words. There are other 
comments. He goes on to say, as I indicated earlier, at this conference 
on the world without Zionism--the President of Iran said:




 To those who doubt, to those who say it is not possible, I 


 say accomplishment of a world without America and Israel is 


 both possible and feasible.


You can say this is an exaggeration. You can say this is not 
realistic. But I suggest that is the repeated statements of the leader 
of a very dangerous nation, a nation with real capabilities. They are 
developing a nuclear capability and an expanding and growing missile 
capability. I think yesterday Senator Lieberman, after the vote on his 
amendment, summed it up very well. This is what he said:




 The threat posed by Iran to our soldiers, to our allies, to 


 our national security is a truth that cannot be wished or 


 waved away. Congress today began the process of confronting 


 it.


We also need to take one more step in that process by making clear 
that we are not going to leave our Nation or our allies in Europe 
vulnerable to any missile threats from Iran.

Most Senators were in the room a few weeks ago when the Director of 
National Intelligence, ADM Mike McConnell, gave us a classified 
briefing and described in detail the threat posed by Iran. Having 
received that briefing, I think few of us would doubt that Iran does 
pose a threat to the security of the United States and our allies. It 
is a threat to us. It is not something we need to be intimidated about. 
We don't need to back down to Iran. Militarily


there is no doubt in the mind of this Senator or any objective 
observer's mind what would happen if a conflict developed here. But we 
need to be realistic, we need to seek to avoid conflict, but we need to 
pursue policies that will make sure we don't allow our citizens to fall 
under a risk of a nuclear missile attack.

So they are pursuing, under Ahmadi-nejad's leadership, the means to 
kill millions of people with the single push of a button. When Iran's 
Shehab-3 missiles are paraded through the streets of Iran, they are 
draped with banners stating, ''Israel must be wiped off the map.'' That 
is what they put on their missiles. With a range of 1,300 kilometers 
and a payload capacity of over 700 kilograms, the Shehab-3 has the 
capacities to implement Ahmadi-Nejad's genocidal agenda. Iran is also 
working hard to develop missiles that can reach Europe and the States. 
The Shehab-4 is well along in development and will reportedly be able 
to reach most of continental Europe. The Shehab-5 and Shehab-6 have 
also been discussed in open sources. They are developing those advanced 
missiles. These sources claim these models will have the capacity to 
reach the eastern seaboard of the United States.

Iran's ability to develop nuclear warheads for those missiles are 
proceeding apace as well. In April, in a speech at the Natanz nuclear 
enrichment facility, there in Iran, Ahmadi-Nejad stated:




 I declare that as of today our dear country has joined the 


 nuclear club of nations and can produce nuclear fuel on an 


 industrial scale.


International Atomic Energy Agency later confirmed that Iranian 
enrichment capabilities were developing rapidly while our knowledge and 
understanding of their nuclear program was decreasing. This uncertainty 
is very disturbing.

Yesterday, the Washington Post reported the construction of an 
underground tunnel complex near its enrichment facilities at Natanz. It 
appears, therefore, that Iran is preparing to protect and hide its 
nuclear capabilities.

Nothing about Iran's behavior recently suggests that it will use 
these capabilities in a responsible manner. In fact, to the contrary, 
we expect Ahmadinejad to use nuclear-tipped missiles to threaten, 
blackmail, and terrorize the nations that oppose its radical agenda and 
using them, actually using them based on some of the extreme statements 
he has made, cannot be placed out of the question.

We all remember last March when Iran seized 15 British sailors and 
held them as hostages. Imagine a time in the not-too-distant future 
when Iran could take the whole city of London as a hostage with a 
nuclear threat. According to reports in the Washington Post, the 
intelligence community assesses that Iran's ICBMs and its nuclear 
weapons capability will both mature in 2015. That is not that far away. 
As a result, the cities of the eastern seaboard and of Europe are 
expected to face the threat of nuclear attack from Iran in less than 8 
years.

Keep in mind that 2015 is the midpoint of the estimated range. Iran's 
capability could come online in 2017, later, or even by 2013, if things 
proceed faster than expected. That may seem like a long way away, but 
an adequate defense will take a long time to build and we need to start 
now. According to the Missile Defense Agency, even if Congress fully 
funded the European defense site--which I hope that we will. We refer 
to it as the ''third site,'' and it is funded every year--the system 
would not be up and running until 2013. Any delay to that schedule--
which could happen for a number of reasons--could open up a window of 
vulnerability during which Iran would have the means to attack us and 
our allies, perhaps with nuclear weapons, and we will have no means of 
defending the American people or our allies against them.


The good news is we have it in our power to prevent this window of 
vulnerability and keep it from opening if we commit as a nation to 
doing so. My amendment represents an opportunity for the Senate to go 
on record with such a commitment. An effective missile defense, which 
we would promptly begin to deploy, could convince the Iranian 
leadership that developing such missiles for their nuclear weapons is a 
futile undertaking. Perhaps we may have already missed, however, that 
opportunity to actually deter them in this way, making it all the more 
important that we get moving on development of the means to defend 
ourselves and our allies.

This amendment is more than about setting U.S. policy on missile 
defense, it is about sending a message to the rest of the world, our 
friends and enemies alike, that we take this Iranian threat seriously 
and we intend to stand up to it. The debate over the third site is 
being watched with great interest around the world. Some may be drawing 
conclusions about our commitment to meet this threat head on and 
doubting that we are committed. In fact, I will note that we 
effectively deployed and continue to upgrade a national missile defense 
system that can meet the North Korean missile threat, which is somewhat 
more advanced than Iran's but not a lot. We know we have this 
capability and we should do it with Iran also.

Imagine sitting in Mr. Ahmadi-nejad's shoes today. He provides 
sophisticated weapons to our enemies in Iraq, killing hundreds of 
American troops in the process. In response, one of our colleagues 
proposed legislation to prohibit the President from attacking Iran 
without congressional authorization. Ahmadinejad rushes headlong toward 
a nuclear weapon and long-range delivery capability and both the Senate 
and the House cut funding for missile defenses that could neutralize 
the threat. Ahmadi-Nejad must not feel like his bluster and threats 
will be effective.

They will not be. Imagine the conclusions that Vladimir Putin is 
drawing from those media reports. In February of 2007, Mr. Putin and 
the Russian Army Chief of Staff, Yury Baluyevsky, threatened to 
unilaterally withdraw from the Intermediate Nuclear Forces Treaty, 
which prohibits the United States and Russia from deploying arsenals of 
short- and medium-range missiles in Europe. Mr. Putin later suspended 
Russia's obligations under the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty, 
which historically allowed NATO and the Warsaw Pact to remove much of 
the military personnel and material that was arrayed along Europe's 
central front during the height of the Cold War.

Finally, in June of this year, Putin directly threatened to focus 
Russia's nuclear arsenal on ''new targets in Europe.'' Putin claimed 
that ''the strategic balance in the world is being upset'' and that 
Russia ''will be creating a system of countering that anti-missile 
system.''

These threats coincided with Russian tests of an advanced ICBM, the 
RS-24, by Russia.

It ought not. Of course, any third site in Europe will be ineffective 
against the massive missile capability of Russia. We don't have any 
capability of doing that. We can create a system that will be very 
effective against anything the Iranians can do in the decades to come 
but not Russia. Our plans have no intention of affecting Russia. But we 
also need not be affected by Mr. Putin's bluster or that we be slowed 
down in our legitimate interests in protecting our country and our 
allies from Iranian threats by these kinds of comments from the 
Russians.

We reduced somewhat--not greatly--but $84 million in funding for the 
third site in Europe. Colleagues felt that money could not be 
effectively spent. They did not believe it was necessary in this year's 
budget. The problem might be that some would conclude the action by our 
committee in taking those steps to trim the budget would be a plan to 
kill missile defenses in Europe.

Yesterday, an article in the Christian Science Monitor entitled 
''Obstacles Ahead for Missile Defense,'' stated the Senate was opposed 
to building defenses against Iranian missiles, in effect, saying:




 In Washington, the Democratic-controlled Congress appears 


 reluctant to fund the move, scrambling its near-term 


 prospects.


I don't think that is true. I think there is bipartisan support for 
creating a missile defense system, but a firm belief exists on the part 
of my Democratic colleagues that we should not go so fast that it is 
not done wisely.

We have reached a proposal in the legislation as written that we can 
live with. However, there has been some confusion as to our seriousness 
in this commitment.



In fact, on July 5 the Washington Post ran an article entitled, 
''Senate Panel Faults Missile Defense Plan.'' In the article, the Post 
states:




 Democrats in Congress are building a legislative roadblock 


 for the Bush administration's plan to place elements of a 


 missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic.


It is an incorrect perception. It undermines our alliance 
relationships by causing our allies to think we are not committed in a 
serious way to building a missile defense system that would be 
effective against Iranian attacks and be protective of Europe. So I 
think it is therefore incumbent upon us to clarify the Senate's stance.

The Poles and the Czechs and other NATO allies have all undertaken 
the momentous challenge of winning over their populations to the idea 
of American missile defenses in Europe. They have battled anti-
Americanism, pressure from Europe and Russia, because they value our 
friendship, but more importantly because they realize Europe may soon 
be vulnerable to Iranian nuclear intimidation and potential nuclear 
attack unless steps are taken to develop defenses now.

I think it would be a slap in the face and unbefitting to our Nation 
if we were to pull the rug out from under these projects after our 
allies have stepped up and been supportive of them. We cannot stand 
idly by, my colleagues, when a madman threatens to destroy the United 
States and to wipe from the map allies of the United States, then 
defies the international community by developing the means to carry out 
these threats.

We are the most powerful military in the world, but some people doubt 
our seriousness and our commitment. In the Middle East, in particular, 
this perception of weakness can be a fatal error. So I think it is 
appropriate for us to make clear to Iran and to Russia and to our 
allies worldwide that we understand that the Iranian danger is clear 
and present.

We must leave no uncertainty in anyone's mind that we intend to 
defend ourselves and our allies from this threat. Our security, the 
security of our allies, and the credibility of our commitments are all 
at stake. I will just add that while the Iranian actions are very 
troubling, they should be taken very seriously. Iran's words cannot be 
ignored.

I would say one thing further. We have no reason to be intimidated by 
Iran. We have the capability of defending ourselves, our military, and 
our interests, and the leaders in Iran need to know this. This Senator 
is prepared to take whatever steps are necessary to defend our national 
interests.

I yield the floor.