# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `c7b99bf08db717db4f672c495e18c72d`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 327, the 
Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act.

Mr. Speaker, the measures in this bill are designed to reduce the 
alarming incidence of suicides among our vets. According to a recent 
study conducted by Portland State University, male U.S. military 
veterans are twice as likely to commit suicide as men who haven't 
served in the armed forces. The report is a painful reminder of why we 
must adopt the measures outlined in this bill to assist our military 
personnel returning from Afghanistan and Iraq.

The Portland State study followed 320,000 men over age 18 for 12 
years collecting data on those who participated in the National Health 
Interview Survey. The researchers found that men who had served in the 
military at some time between 1917 and 1994 were twice as likely to die 
from suicide than men in the general population. In addition, veterans 
who committed suicide were more likely to be older, white, better 
educated, and married. But the report offered few clear indicators for 
the high suicide rates. That in part is the purpose of this 
legislation--to locate the root cause of the high suicide rates and to 
reverse the situation.

There are approximately 25 million veterans in the United States, and 
5 million veterans who receive care within the Veteran's Health 
Administration (VHA). Based on CDC data, VHA mental health officials 
estimate 1000 suicides per year among veterans receiving care with VHA 
and as many as 5000 per year among all living veterans.

Representative Boswell's bill is a bipartisan effort to get at the 
root of this troubling trend and to find solutions.

This bill requires the Veterans Administration to consider the 
special needs of veterans who suffer from post traumatic stress 
disorder and mandates the development and implementation of a 
comprehensive program to reduce the incidence of suicide among all 
veterans.

The bill accomplishes this by requiring that appropriate Veterans 
Administration staff are able to recognize risk factors for suicide and 
are aware of the proper protocols and best practices for responding to 
crisis situations involving veterans who may be at high risk.

The legislation also requires the designation of a suicide prevention 
counselor at each department medical facility and authorizes the 
availability of 24-hour mental health care; a hotline, staffed with 
trained mental health personnel; and expanded outreach and education 
services for veterans and their families.

We must put an end to this tragedy affecting the many vulnerable men 
and women who have worn our country's uniform and who serve this 
country proudly today. I believe this legislation is an important step 
in that direction, and I am happy to support it.