---
---

# PRESIDENTAL VETO
## `c7c08372efde3dc31c79e40bea0e4824`
`Mr. DURBIN — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, they say in life you can really judge a 
person's values by where they put their wealth. Certainly, we all love 
our families, and we think nothing of spending a lot of money on our 
children. We all value our health, and we go to great extent to spend 
whatever is necessary to have a healthy lifestyle and to live on for 
many years.

The President, today, had a chance to demonstrate his values with his 
veto pen. He had a chance to decide what priorities we should have in 
America


for our future. We sent him a bill called the Labor, Health and Human 
Services appropriations bill.

There was a venerable Congressman from Kentucky named Bill Natcher. 
He served for many years and distinguished himself as never having 
missed a rollcall vote in his life. I will not get into that side 
story, but his responsibility in the House Appropriations Committee was 
to chair the subcommittee that generated this spending bill, the Labor, 
Health and Human Services bill, the bill that includes education, 
health care, medical research--programs that really directly reach the 
people of America. He called it the people's bill. He used to wear 
these starched white shirts and dark-blue suits and silver-gray ties. 
He looked like a Senator. He had the gray hair and would stand there 
and say: This is the people's bill. The people should vote for it. And 
they did. Overwhelmingly, House Members--Democrats and Republicans--
would vote for it because this bill really does reach families 
everywhere across America.

President Bush decided to veto this bill today. He vetoed the bill, 
which is rare. Incidentally, he never vetoed a bill until this year. 
Now, he has, after a long search, found his veto pen and is using it 
frequently. He vetoed this bill this year because it called for 4 
percent more spending than he had asked for--$6 billion.

Madam President, $6 billion is a lot of money, for sure, but not by 
Federal budget standards. The President, before he vetoed this bill, 
signed the Defense appropriations bill. That bill was 10 percent over 
his request, and yet he signed it. When it came to this bill that 
reaches families and people across America, he said no.

Of course, this President, who says we cannot afford $6 billion for 
programs for the American people, is asking us for $196 billion for 
programs for the people of Iraq--$196 billion. It is hard to understand 
how we cannot afford health care in America, cancer research in 
America, education in America, worker protection in America, homeless 
shelters for veterans in America, yet $196 billion for Iraq. I said it 
before. This President gets up every morning in the White House, opens 
the window, looks outside and sees Iraq. He doesn't see America, 
because if he would see America, he would understand the American 
people across this Nation value so much the priorities he vetoed today.


Yesterday we celebrated Veterans Day. We acknowledged what the men 
and women who have served this country mean to us, our history, and our 
future. There were a lot of good speeches given by great politicians 
talking about how much we value our veterans. Those speeches had hardly 
been finished when the President returned to the White House to veto 
this bill.

This bill would have provided funding for employment and health 
programs for veterans. It is hard to believe in America that one out of 
four homeless people is a veteran. You see them on the streets of your 
town, large and small; you see them standing on the highways with 
little cardboard signs. One out of four of them is a veteran. This bill 
tried to provide counseling, shelter, ways to give these veterans a 
place to sleep at night. The President vetoed it and said it was too 
darn much spending.

This bill would have provided $228 million for veterans employment, 
$9.5 million for traumatic brain injury, and $23.6 million for the 
Homeless Veterans Reintegration Programs.

Last night on television I saw a program. James Gandolfini, who was 
the star of ''The Sopranos,'' had a special documentary; I believe it 
was called ''Alive Day.'' I think that was the name of it, but you 
couldn't miss it if you saw it because he invited veterans on this 
program to be interviewed, veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan who had 
been injured. These young men and women came and talked about their 
love of this country, their service to our Nation and what they had 
been through. This beautiful young woman who had been a lieutenant in 
the Army had a rocket-propelled grenade explode right next to her, 
tearing off her right arm and shoulder. She now has a prosthetic arm 
that appears to be real but of course does not even have function to 
it, but it is what she uses. It was a touching moment when she talked 
about what her future would be, this beautiful young woman, this 
disabled veteran.

There were many amputees--some of them double amputees--talking about 
trying to put their lives back together. Some of the most painful 
episodes involve victims of traumatic brain injury. There was one young 
man with his mother sitting next to him. They showed before pictures, 
when he was a hard-charging soldier, happy go lucky and a lot of fun, 
who then sustained a serious traumatic brain injury and now is in a 
wheelchair. He hopes the day will come when he can once again walk and 
run. It is hard to imagine we could give tribute to those veterans 
yesterday and veto a bill today that would have spent just $9.5 million 
for traumatic brain injury programs, but the President did that this 
morning.

The President came to Washington and said he wanted to be the 
education President. We remember it well because he came up with a new 
term we hadn't heard before called No Child Left Behind; he persuaded 
leaders on both sides of the aisle to vote for it and produced a new 
education program for America. This bill provided money to make that 
program work. It is not enough to identify the problems in our schools 
and the difficulties facing our children and our students; you need 
help to make certain you have the best teachers in the classroom, the 
proper class size, the right equipment at the school.

We also understand early childhood education is essential for kids to 
succeed. Show me a family where the mom and dad focus on teaching that 
child to read and read to the child and take the child out and speak to 
them in adult terms and I will show you a child probably destined to be 
pretty good in kindergarten. A lot of kids don't have that good 
fortune; mom and dad are off to work. So the Head Start Program is a 
way to give them a fighting chance. The bill the President vetoed today 
included more than $7 billion for the Head Start Program, increasing it 
by $200 million from last year. The President said we can't afford to 
increase the Head Start Program.

The bill also included $18 billion for higher education initiatives 
and student financial aid. How many working families do you know with a 
child they want to see go to the best school in America, struggling 
with the idea of how they will pay for it and the debt they will carry 
out of school? We put money in this bill to help those families help 
those students, and the President said we can't afford it.

The President's budget would have provided title I funds for 117,000 
fewer students and cut the number of new teachers in classrooms by 
8,000. So the President says it is wasteful for us to provide title I 
funds to help children from disadvantaged families--117,000 more--and 
new teachers and classrooms by 8,000. At the same time, he wants $196 
billion for a war in Iraq not paid for.

In Illinois, almost 3,500 students will be left behind by the 
President's veto, and 200 teachers will not be hired. Will that be 
better for those schools, those families, those children? Of course 
not.

The appropriations bill the President vetoed also included $11.3 
billion for special ed, kids with special challenges who need special 
help and with that help have a chance to succeed. The President said we 
spend too much money on those kids and he vetoed it.

Had Congress provided what the President requested, Federal funding 
for disabled children would be lower by an average of $117 per child. I 
have been in schools with special education classes, and I have watched 
the special care those children need and receive, often one-on-one 
help. If that teacher is caring and competent, the child has a chance--
just a chance--to come out of the shadows of darkness and have a 
future. That is what this bill is about--a bill the President says 
America cannot afford.

In the area of health care--this is one I think touches me and most 
people--we included $29 billion for medical research at 27 institutes 
and centers at the National Institutes of Health. Senator Mikulski 
knows all about this. This is in her neck of the woods in Maryland. The 
National Institutes of Health and what they achieve, we put in this 
bill $29 billion and included $1.4 billion more than the President 
requested for medical research at NIH.