---
---

# None
## `c7d2d605aa180a53dd111642503b7961`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I come to the floor this morning to say 
thank you to COL Michael Barbero. I have been in the Senate now for 
only a little over 3 years. During that time, I have had the great 
honor and privilege of traveling to Iraq and to the Middle East with 
Colonel Barbero on two separate occasions. He is, first of all, a great 
soldier. He is someone who makes us all proud for his long service to 
the U.S. Army.

Part of his career in the U.S. Army has been to serve at Fort Carson, 
the home of the Mountain Division in the State of Colorado. As we 
traveled to the Middle East, we often would talk about Fort Carson and 
his experience there and the beauty of my State and the beauty of our 
mountains.

Colonel Barbero has been a great example of service. He has always 
put the interests and concerns of others ahead of himself. I think in 
that fashion he exemplifies the selflessness that comes from the very 
best of the best we have in the U.S. Armed Forces.

He has been a great example in the Senate as he has worked with all 
of us, with many of our colleagues, demonstrating the excellence and 
the commitment of the men and women who serve in our Armed Forces 
today.

I also want to voice my appreciation for the great sacrifices he has 
made because, as he has worked not only in the Senate for the last 
several years, but beyond that, his family has also sacrificed a great 
deal to our Nation. I think about his wife Vicki and his children Mary 
and Michael. Mary and Michael are still young people at home. I am sure 
often they missed their father when he would be gone on journeys into 
troubled areas of the world, sometimes for more than a week at a time.

So I come to the floor this morning simply to salute Colonel Barbero 
and to tell him thank you on behalf of the Senate for the great 
contribution he has made to our country and to the relationship between 
our legislative branch of Government--this Chamber, the Senate--and the 
U.S. Army.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.