---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c7d4f1bee1d72356a5358d11538926db`
`Mrs. DAVIS of California — 15 February 2007`

---


Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as 
I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague on the other side of the 
aisle, because in many ways he has really made the case for us. The 
argument on his side has been that we can't just use our military, the 
tools that they bring us, the great treasure that we have in them. We 
cannot solely look to them. And I think our great consternation over 
this war has been that we have not used our political, our economic and 
our diplomatic tools to represent the great Nation that we are.

I have to tell my colleague that I was really saddened when the 
veterans of my community asked me, and I have asked our generals and I 
have asked the President, are we in fact a military at war and not a 
Nation at war? The generals told me that we are a military at war. I 
think the President disagreed with that. But the reality is that we 
have not brought our Nation to this effort in the way that I think is 
appropriate to have done. And so when we talk about the strategic risks 
that are there, when we talk about the fact that we need to understand 
those risks, we are doing it in a context that we know that when we 
went to this war, we didn't properly assess those risks.



We failed to do that, and we can't fail to do that any longer.

So what we bring to the table and what we bring to this discussion 
and this debate, and I think it has been a good debate, Mr. Speaker, is 
I think it is important, as a lot of my colleagues have said on both 
sides of the aisle, that we represent the people of our community.

I often go into schools and talk to students about what 
representation means and tell them that it would be really impossible 
to take their entire class to Washington and have everybody there to 
speak on the floor of the House. Well, we are honored, and I know that 
my colleague is too, to be in the House, to be able to make those 
presentations, and we do it for people who actually sometimes disagree 
with us as well as agree with us. But it is important that we do that.

I think what we bring to this debate is to try and understand what 
these strategic risks are today. You made my case, and I appreciate 
that, because there are many conflicts, and we need to understand them. 
That is why only focusing on a troop escalation, which isn't 20,000 
troops, Mr. Speaker, we know there are probably another 15,000 in 
support troops, and those 15,000 troops, which are there for support of 
combat troops, sometimes get in the way. We know that, and we know we 
have had many deaths from our support troops as well. So we need to 
think about this as a much larger troop escalation.

But the reality is we need to utilize all of our other tools, and we 
want to put the pressure on our country, on this administration, on the 
Iraqi people and its government and all of our friends around the world 
to help us and step up to the plate; not to just rely on our military, 
not to just rely on our treasure. We believe that is essential to make 
the statement.

So I want to close, Mr. Speaker, by saying that this has been a good 
debate. It will continue. It will continue into tomorrow. Then Members 
will have an opportunity to vote and to let their constituents know how 
and why they chose to do that.