---
---

# FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007
## `c7de6a6376cce159c4aa01963c1e8301`
`Mr. REID — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I know my friend from Arizona has been here 
and very patient. I guess the question I would ask--I have been asked 
most of the questions, but I do not ask any one person to answer this 
to me. But the question I have is: Why would there not be an agreement 
to my suggestion, my proposal? Let's debate the daylights out of this 
bill, offer amendments. What is wrong with that? Is it because there 
are people wanting to offer unrelated amendments to the bill? I mean, 
what in the world is wrong with what we are trying to accomplish here? 
It is a big bill. We do it every 5 years. People should have an 
opportunity to change it. I think they should do that. Why would they 
not want us to do that? Is there something I am missing here? I mean, 
is it their last opportunity to do--as Senator Dole used to refer to as 
decorating a Christmas tree? Is that what they want to do? Is this 
their Christmas tree to try to decorate it? I do not understand it.

I say to everyone within the sound of my voice: Do we need on the 
farm bill amendments relating to labor issues? Do we need amendments 
dealing with Leave No Child Behind? Do we need amendments relating to 
environmental issues? Global warming? Do we need amendments dealing 
with Iraq, the war in Iraq, Afghanistan, or the situation now in 
Pakistan?

I do not think so. I think we need to work on this bill, get as much 
of it done as we can this week. I think it will spill over into next 
week, but in the process, we are going to have to find time to do a 
conference report on the Labor-HHS bill. That has a rule violation in 
it, perhaps; we have to do the Defense appropriations bill with the CR. 
Those are the must-do items.

Now I am not trying, as I have said so many times here, to stop an 
open amendment process on this bill, except I want them to be relevant. 
I think most everybody does who has any dealing in this farm bill. I do 
not expect the ranking member to get engaged in this. He has 
responsibilities to listen to his leadership, and that is 
understandable.

I will bet if the truth were known, those Senators who have worked so 
hard on this bill are thinking to themselves: Now, what has Reid said 
that is unreasonable? What he has said is: I have offered the first 
amendment, and it is not my amendment. I am not selfish, wanting my 
amendment to be heard. I have offered a bipartisan amendment that we 
know must be debated before this farm bill is completed. And then I 
say, anyone who wants to offer another amendment relating to the farm 
bill that is relevant: Have at it. I am not going to stop anyone from 
doing that. I don't think anybody on this side will either.

The Republicans are not having a debate on the farm bill, for reasons 
that are beyond my ability to comprehend, unless it is the Dole theory 
of trying to put new lights on the Christmas tree.