---
---

# None
## `c7e2d51cdf8f2459bbd138eecade7328`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 18 June 2009`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, as the Senate takes up legislation 
today on emergency funding for combat operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, U.S. forces overseas can be reassured by this: unlike some 
of our previous recent debates, broad bipartisan agreement now exists 
in support of the proposition that the efforts of our service men and 
women should be funded and supported.

The supplemental agreement we are considering today includes nearly 
$80 billion for the Defense Department.


This funding will allow General Odierno and our uniformed men and women 
in Iraq to preserve the security gains they achieved during the surge, 
continue the transition to greater Iraqi control and capability, and 
deny refuge to al-Qaida in Iraq.

These funds will also be used to support a surge of forces in 
Afghanistan. And to those of us who ignored previous calls for 
arbitrary withdrawal dates in Iraq, it is particularly encouraging to 
see that President Obama has accepted the recommendations of General 
Petraeus for sending additional forces into Afghanistan. Success there 
isn't assured. Looking ahead, we can expect continued challenges 
associated with the upcoming Afghan national elections, the need to 
continue the expansion of the Afghan National Army and Police, and the 
need to combat corruption within the Afghan ministries. But the 
President was right to direct a surge of forces, appoint a new 
commander, and refocus our efforts on a broad counterinsurgency 
strategy to combat the Taliban.

Republicans support this surge and understand that broad security 
gains in Afghanistan cannot be achieved without the sustained 
improvement of the Afghanistan National Army and police forces. But 
this strategy will also require a sustained effort on the part of the 
government, the people, and the military forces of Pakistan to deny the 
Taliban, al-Qaida, and associated groups sanctuary in the tribal areas 
of Pakistan.

Just 2 months ago, the situation in Pakistan appeared to be so dire 
that the Secretary of State openly voiced concern that ''the Pakistani 
government is basically abdicating to the Taliban and to extremists.'' 
Since that time, the Pakistani military has moved in force into the 
Swat Valley to combat this threat. Our commitment to helping Pakistan 
prevail in this fight, which must be conducted as a counterinsurgency 
if it is to succeed, must be sustained. Fortunately, the supplemental 
contains funds to allow it.

Another important issue that must be addressed is the effort by some 
to force the release of photos depicting the alleged mistreatment or 
mistreatment of detainees in Iraq and Afghanistan. I am afraid that 
those encouraging the release of these photos fail to appreciate the 
potential consequences of such a release. The United States has 
painfully come to learn that al-Qaida and the Taliban are sophisticated 
communicators who exploit the airwaves and the internet. That is why 
the concerns expressed by our military commanders over the release of 
additional photos depicting the alleged mistreatment of detainees were 
of equal concern to our allies and friends. Iraq, Afghanistan, 
Pakistan, Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and other countries deal each 
day with the threat of militant radicals. They know how these images 
can be exploited by terrorist groups, and the bitter consequences that 
could follow. Senators Lieberman, Graham, and McCain should be 
commended for making these concerns their own and carrying them to the 
American people.

Senator Graham noted on the floor yesterday that he believes the 
President shares the Senate's concerns about the potential dangers of 
releasing these photos. Last evening we passed legislation that would 
prevent any additional strategic harm from the release of photographs 
like these. Now the House must act.

Although Republicans support the President's support in the 
supplemental for our operations and overall objectives in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, a bipartisan majority disagree with the President in one 
important respect--and that is the administration's request for $80 
million from Congress for the purpose of closing the detention facility 
at Guantanamo Bay before the administration even has a place to put the 
detainees who are housed there, any plan for military commissions, or 
any articulated plan for indefinite detention or for transferring 
detainees in a manner that ensures the safety of the American people.

During January of this year, by Executive order, the President 
established an arbitrary date for closing the detention facility at 
Guantanamo Bay. In April, the administration submitted its funding 
request to close Guantanamo as part of this supplemental bill, and the 
Senate voted 90-6 against including that funding. But it is worth 
reminding the Senate that the defense budget request for fiscal year 
2010 includes a similar funding request, so the Senate will consider 
this matter again in the near future.

Bipartisan majorities of both Houses and the American people oppose 
closing Guantanamo without a plan, and several important questions 
remain unanswered: why was it necessary to bring detainees to the 
United States for prosecution, rather than using the courtroom at 
Guantanamo? If these terrorists are found to be not guilty by a 
civilian court, will they be returned to detention or released? What 
threat assessments were conducted prior to the recent transfers of 
detainees to Iraq, Chad, and Saudi Arabia?

The task force established by the President to review the closure of 
Guantanamo is scheduled to conclude its work in July, so Congress may 
learn of the administration's plans later this year. But this 
conference report requires the President to report to the Congress 
concerning the threat any further detainees who are released or 
transferred pose to the American people and our service members 
overseas. This will be of increasing importance as the task force 
decides the fate of detainees from Yemen.

As I said, Republicans supported the President when he reconsidered 
his plan to withdraw forces from Iraq. It is our hope that he will show 
similar openness when it comes to his arbitrary deadline for closing 
Guantanamo. The Senate has spoken clearly on this issue repeatedly. It 
is our hope that the administration heeds the wishes of the American 
people as expressed through their elected representatives when it comes 
to releasing and transferring dangerous terrorists.

As the arbitrary closure date approaches, we will continue to press 
this issue forward.

The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have placed a great strain on our 
combat forces, the weapons and equipment that they need to succeed and 
on the training base that helps to keep the force ready. This bill 
continues the Senate's support for this force, and for the dangerous 
missions that they undertake on our behalf, and therefore it deserves 
our support. It is not perfect, but it meets the needs of our 
commanders in the field. America remains a nation at war. Our forces 
fighting these wars deserve our support, and the funding in this bill.