---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `c7e22bd6f2aeebd727455d8528127adc`
`Mr. LEVIN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Success in Iraq--creating a stable, independent Iraq--
depends on Iraqi leaders finally seeing the end of the open-ended U.S. 
commitment. The Iraq Study Group correctly pointed out almost a year 
ago that ''An open-ended


commitment of American forces would not provide the Iraqi government 
the incentive it needs to take the political actions that give Iraq the 
best chance of quelling sectarian violence.'' In the absence of such an 


 incentive, the Iraqi Government might continue to delay 


 taking those actions.


The President's current strategy is nothing less than stagnant 
because it is open-ended. It lacks the key ingredient of an action-
forcing mechanism aimed at getting the Iraqi leaders to resolve their 
political differences. What is that mechanism? What is the mechanism 
that will finally force the Iraqi leaders to get on with the job of 
negotiating their political differences? It is action on our part, not 
just rhetoric, that clearly demonstrates to the Iraqi Government that 
our open-ended commitment to the American troops in the middle of their 
civil war is over, and that while we will provide support to their 
army, we have decided, as did the British, to transfer principal 
responsibility for security to Iraqi forces.

It is not good enough to do what the President did a few days ago and 
say we are going to take another look next March. That maintains the 
open-ended commitment. That does not have a timetable for the reduction 
of our troops to the levels which are necessary to carry on the 
missions which are identified.

The Jones Commission reported that ''The Iraqi armed forces . . . are 
increasingly effective and are capable of assuming greater 
responsibility for the internal security of Iraq.'' The Commission went 
on to say that a number of Iraqi Army battalions that are capable of 
taking the lead are not in the lead. That was a fact acknowledged by 
General Petraeus in our hearings about a week ago.

The Commission did one other thing: The Jones Commission also 
recommended--and these are the keywords--''the size of our national 
footprint in Iraq be reconsidered'' and that ''significant reductions . 
. . appear to be possible and prudent.'' Those are the words of General 
Jones and his Commission that significant reductions in our presence 
appear to be prudent. This is a group of retired generals and police 
officers.

I asked General Petraeus about whether there are these units of the 
Iraqi Army that are capable of assuming greater responsibility, as 
General Jones's Commission said, but they have not done so. General 
Petraeus acknowledged that there were such Iraqi units. I asked him how 
many, and he said he would supply that number for the record.

The Jones Commission emphasized that ''there is a fine line between 
assistance and dependence.'' When I was in Iraq last month, I asked a 
young American soldier who is on his third deployment to Iraq what his 
ideas were about transferring greater responsibility to the Iraqis. His 
answer was:




 The Iraqi soldiers will let U.S. soldiers do the job that 


 they're supposed to be doing forever, and we need to let them 


 do it on their own.


I could not agree more.

In addition to getting our troops out of the middle of their civil 
war, success also depends on a transition of missions. According to the 
Iraq Study Group:




 By the first quarter of 2008, subject to unexpected 


 developments in the security situation on the ground, all 


 combat brigades not necessary for force protection could be 


 out of Iraq.


That Commission proposed that a far smaller U.S. military presence 
would remain only for limited missions to include force protection, 
counterterrorism, and training the Iraqi security forces. I believe it 
is essential that transition to the limited missions be announced now 
as a way of ending this open-ended commitment which the Iraqi political 
leaders have taken to be such a security blanket and have taken them 
off the hook from doing something that only they can do--work out the 
political differences that divide them which, in the words of their own 
Prime Minister, the failure to do has resulted in the continuation of 
violence.

Everybody seems to agree that there is no military solution, and yet 
when it comes to telling the Iraqi political leaders that the open-
ended commitment is over, we are not only going to begin to reduce our 
troops, but we are going to transition their mission and complete that 
transition in a reasonable period of time, not precipitous but in a 
reasonable period of time, and our amendment provides 9 months after 
enactment of this law, it is the only way--the only way--that this 
open-ended commitment can finally be brought to an end. So we not only 
have to transition to the limited missions and announce it now, we have 
to adopt a timetable for the completion of that transition.

Those are the key provisions of the amendment before us. It is the 
key to ending the open-endedness, and it is long overdue. Presenting 
Iraq's political leaders with a timetable to begin withdrawing our 
forces and transitioning those that remain from mainly combat to mainly 
support roles is the only hope that Iraqi leaders will realize their 
future is in their hands, not in the hands of our brave men and women 
who proudly wear the uniform of our country.

Taking this step will also recognize another fact of life: that the 
stress on our forces--especially the wear and tear on the Army and 
Marines--must be reduced. We cannot continue to deploy our forces at 
the current level without seriously weakening our ability to respond to 
other challenges that might confront us.

So how can Congress bring about a change of course in Iraq when 
President Bush delays and delays and delays making any change? A clear 
majority of the Senate indicated support for Levin-Reed last July when 
we voted 53 to 46 to cut off the filibuster of the Republican 
leadership against the Levin-Reed amendment. Madam President, 53 to 46 
was the vote.

The Levin-Reed amendment required the Secretary of Defense to begin a 
reduction in the number of U.S. forces in Iraq not later than 120 days 
after the date of enactment. It would have also required a transition 
to a limited presence only to carry out the missions of protecting U.S. 
and coalition personnel and infrastructure, training, equipping, and 
providing logistics support--and those are important words--to the 
Iraqi security forces and engaging in targeted counterterrorism 
operations against al-Qaida, al-Qaida affiliated groups, and other 
international terrorist organizations. The transition to the limited 
presence in mission would have had to have been completed by April 30, 
2008. This reduction would have been implemented along with a 
comprehensive diplomatic, political, and economic strategy that 
includes sustained engagement with Iraq's neighbors and the 
international community.

The continued inability of the Iraqi Government to make any progress 
toward a political settlement and the refusal of the Bush 
administration to change course reinforces the need for the Levin-Reed 
amendment. So that amendment is now before us. It is essentially the 
same as the amendment we voted on last July. The changes in the 
timetable are slight to accommodate the fact that we are voting at a 
later time, essentially. We would require the reduction to begin no 
later than 90 days after the date of enactment and to be completed 
within 9 months of the date of enactment in order to adjust the 
timetable to be both clear and to respond to the fact that we will be 
voting on this months later than the last vote in July.


The challenge before us is to get to the 60 votes. Sixty votes is the 
goal that I guess almost all our Iraq legislation has to meet because 
of the filibuster that took place the last time we offered Levin-Reed 
and because the threat of that filibuster exists again.

The reality is that we are going to continue to plug away to get to 
those 60 votes. We hope we can get them on this version of Levin-Reed. 
It is a version which finally, if we can get to the 60 votes and defeat 
this filibuster, will change course in Iraq. The majority of us in this 
Senate have voted to change course in Iraq, in effect, when there were 
53 of us who voted to end the filibuster last July.

The majority of the American people clearly want a change of course 
in Iraq. They do not want a precipitous withdrawal. They understand we 
are going to need some troops there for force protection and for 
training of the Iraqi Army and for providing logistics to the Iraqi 
Army and for some targeted counterterrorism efforts against al-Qaida, 
their affiliates, and other terrorist groups. The American people 
understand. They want something that is


planned in terms of reduction of our forces, and they want a timetable. 
What they want more than anything else is to get the Iraqi leaders to 
end their dawdling so our troops can come home.

Everybody wants a stable, independent Iraq. The course we are on now, 
the course of status quo, an open-ended course, the course of, ''well, 
we will figure out next July whether we want to go further, whether we 
want to go below the presurge level,'' that stagnant course is exactly 
the wrong signal to the Iraqi leaders.

The course the President is on keeps that open-ended commitment of 
American forces. It does not do what we must do, and because the 
President will not do it, Congress must do it, which is to tell the 
Iraqis that the future of their country is in their hands and we will 
continue to be helpful.

We have given them an opportunity they have not seized, and 4/1/2/ 
years later, almost 4,000 American troops have been killed, 7 times 
that many wounded, $600 billion now spent, $10 billion more every 
month. It has to come to an end. We want to bring it to a successful 
end. We cannot do it militarily. Every military leader says there is no 
military solution. There is only a political solution, and only the 
Iraqi political leaders can achieve it.

That is what this amendment will help to bring about, that final 
statement to the Iraqi leaders: We cannot save you from yourselves.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Whitehouse.) The clerk will call the roll.