# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `c7f11bcb63b0c20ad36fa8666587c5d1`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 8 September 2009`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican 
Leadership standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following 
information regarding earmarks I received as part of the Fiscal Year 
2010 Department of Defense Appropriations Act.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Eglin Air Force Base Range Operations Control Center 
(ROCC)

Account: RDAF

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Cubic Corporation

Address of Requesting Entity: 1225 South Clark Street, Suite 702, 
Arlington, VA 22202

Description of Request: $2,500,000--Eglin Air Force Base Range 
Operations Control Center (ROCC), Cubic Corporation. I requested these 
funds to address the increased testing and evaluation at Eglin AFB, the 
46th Test Wing Super ROCC initiative is a phased effort involving 
development, procurement and military construction (MILCON) funding to 
meet the future need in the 2015-2020 timeframe. This project provides 
more effective control to better optimize range scheduling and 
increases flexibility in meeting the Eglin AFB test and training 
missions. By knowing the locations of all entities on the range, the 
Super ROCC will have great flexibility in reassigning missions to 
ground and air space previously not being used.

The entity to receive funding for this project is Cubic Corporation 
located at 1225 South Clark Street, Suite 702, Arlington, VA 22202. I 
certify that neither I nor my spouse has any financial interest in this 
project. Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on 
earmarks, I hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any 
entity or program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not 
intended for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or 
exceeds all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Gulf Range Mobile Instrumentation Capability

Account: RDDW

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Prologic

Address of Requesting Entity: 9400 Innovation Drive, Manassas, VA 
20110

Description of Request: $3,000,000--Gulf Range Mobile Instrumentation 
Capability, Prologic. I requested these funds for Gulf Range Mobile 
Instrumentation Capability for the 46th Range Group (46 RANG). The 46th 
Range Group (46 RANG) has a need for a capability for remote test, 
collection, storage and relay of various data types. This capability 
can be accomplished with a Gulf Range Mobile Instrumentation Capability 
(GR-MIC). The GR-MIC is needed to support test events on the Eglin AFB 
range which occur over large geographic areas (land and sea based).

The entity to receive funding for this project is Prologic located at 
9400 Innovation Drive, Manassas, VA 20110. I certify that neither I nor 
my spouse has any financial interest in this project. Consistent with 
the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I hereby certify that 
this request (1) is not directed to any entity or program named after a 
sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended for a ''front'' or 
''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds all statutory 
requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Intelligence Broadcast Receiver (IBR) for AFSOC MC-130 
Aircraft

Account: PDW

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DRS Technologies

Address of Requesting Entity: 651 Anchors St., Fort Walton Beach, FL 
32548

Description of Request: $1,000,000--Intelligence Broadcast Receiver 
(IBR) for AFSOC MC-130 Aircraft, DRS Technologies. I requested these 
funds to procure equipment that provides Air Force Special Operations 
Command (AFSOC) MC-130 Combat Shadow aircraft with vastly improved 
situational awareness in high threat arenas. These aircraft provide 
clandestine or low visibility, low level missions into denied areas to 
provide support to


small SOF ground teams as well as to provide air refueling for 
specialized infiltration aircraft. This equipment provides real time 
information to include; immediate intelligence, Blue Force tracking 
(friendly units), and survivor information, greatly improving mission 
success and survivability.

The entity to receive funding for this project is DRS Technologies 
located at 651 Anchors St., Fort Walton Beach, FL 32548. I certify that 
neither I nor my spouse has any financial interest in this project. 
Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.

Requesting Member: Congressman Jeff Miller

Project Name: Joint Gulf Complex Test and Training

Account: RDDW

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Boeing

Address of Requesting Entity: 634 Anchors St. NW., Fort Walton Beach, 
FL 32548

Description of Request: $3,000,000--Joint Gulf Complex Test and 
Training, Boeing. I requested these funds to provide critical training 
and mission rehearsal for Iraq and Afghanistan deployments. The range 
must accommodate requirements for joint testing of weapons systems that 
are revolutionary in nature and being developed for the War, on 
Terrorism. The Joint Gulf Range must accommodate critical joint 
training requirements specifically in support of U.S. Air Force Special 
Operations Command and U.S. Special Operations Command.

The entity to receive funding for this project is Boeing located at 
634 Anchors St. NW., Fort Walton Beach, FL 32548. I certify that 
neither I nor my spouse has any financial interest in this project. 
Consistent with the Republican Leadership's policy on earmarks, I 
hereby certify that this request (1) is not directed to any entity or 
program named after a sitting Member of Congress; (2) is not intended 
for a ''front'' or ''pass through'' entity; and (3) meets or exceeds 
all statutory requirements for matching funds where applicable.
