---
---

# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `c7f66ac7c586330af24433feb3e9d078`
`Mr. CULBERSON — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, every American is born with an innate 
sense of fairness and what is right and wrong. This case, more than any 
other, has struck a chord among Americans as being fundamentally unjust 
and flat wrong; that two law enforcement officers who swore an oath to 
protect this Nation, who were out on that violent Texas-Mexico border 
to protect this Nation against criminals and terrorists, every American 
understands the case where the two Border Patrol agents doing their job 
are thrown in prison for 11 and 12 years, and the drug smuggler goes 
free with a visa to pass back and forth as often as he wants. And the 
drug smuggler sues us, the taxpayers, for millions of dollars. Every 
American gets that.

I have never seen a level of outrage among my constituents and really 
across the country on any issue as there has been on this issue of 
freeing Border Patrol Agents Ramos and Compean.

It is patently unfair these two men, whatever you may say about the 
circumstances of the case, if they improperly picked up shell casings, 
they did not report the shooting, it is an administrative violation. At 
most you fire them from their job. But to be sentenced to 10 to 12 
years in prison, these two law enforcement officers, to be sentenced to 
prison for 10 to 12 years is an outrage. It is just, it is unfair. The 
drug smuggler to this day is free.

As Judge Poe said, the drug smuggler ran another load of dope into 
the United States, and the DEA knew about it during the trial of this 
case. This guy ran more drugs into the United States, and the 
prosecutor ordered the DEA not to arrest him and let him go free.

Every American understands this case. People may not have understood 
the Nigerian oil barge transfer and the Enron case; everybody gets this 
one. And the Congress, I am very proud to stand here tonight with many, 
many other Members of Congress who have asked the President first to 
pardon these two officers. And now that they are in prison and have 
suffered so much and have lost everything, many of my colleagues, who 
you will hear speak, have joined together in writing a letter and 
asking the President, and we reiterate that call tonight, Mr. Chairman, 
asking the President to commute the sentences of two Border Patrol 
agents, Ramos and Compean, for the same reason that he commuted the 
case of Scooter Libby.

In the case of Scooter Libby, the President said the sentence did not 
fit the crime. Certainly that is true here. If they picked up shell 
casings and didn't report the shooting, you don't go to prison for 10 
and 11 years. In the case of Scooter Libby, the President said Scooter 
Libby had already suffered enough. Clearly these two Border Patrol 
agents have already suffered enough. They have lost everything. Their 
lives have been destroyed. They have been thrown in prison. It is just 
simply wrong for their incarceration to continue another day.

For whatever reason, the White House is turning a deaf ear on the 
call of the American people, the overwhelming outrage of the American 
people to have these two men released from prison. So what other choice 
do we have, Mr. Chairman, as Members of Congress, but to cut off the 
funding to the Bureau of Prisons to incarcerate them? We cannot as 
Members of Congress send a stronger signal to the White House and to 
the American people how committed we are to protecting this border and 
standing behind our law enforcement agents, and letting the Border 
Patrol agents know that we are proud of them and support the work that 
they are doing for the sake of our children and for the sake of our 
constituents. We understand clearly that we will never win the war on 
terror until we have truly protected our borders.



The border today is unprotected and wide open. If you cross in 
Arizona, you won't even be arrested the first 15 times you cross over. 
You're going to be put right back across the border.

If you cross in Brownsville, an agent told us on a trip just a couple 
of weeks ago, Brownsville will only arrest an illegal alien if they 
come up and knock on the window of the vehicle.

But yet, right next door in Del Rio, thank God Del Rio is arresting 
everybody. In Del Rio, using existing law and existing resources, 
Federal Judge Alia Ludlum, Border Patrol Sector Chief Randy Hill are 
arresting every single illegal alien crossing the border in Del Rio. 
They have zero tolerance for illegal aliens crossing in Del Rio. The 
local community loves it because it keeps the streets safe, the schools 
safe, the business community thriving. The illegal crossings have 
plummeted, burglaries have plummeted, and the result in Del Rio is 
peace and quiet. Yet, right next door in Brownsville there's chaos.

So, we all of us have a stake as Americans. In winning the war on 
terror, you've got to secure the border. No better way to secure the 
border than enforce existing law, and the best way to make sure that 
our agents out there in the field know that they're going to have the 
support of the American people is for the President to step up and 
commute the sentences of these two border patrol agents.

Until that happens, it is up to us here in Congress to do all that we 
can to send a message to every border patrol agent that we're doing 
everything within our power, officers of the law, to support you, to 
tell you we're proud of you. You are in front lines of the war on 
terror on the border, just as our soldiers are in Iraq.

I urge the Members of the House to support Mr. Poe's amendment so we 
can stop the funding of the incarceration of these two agents and send 
as strong as possible a message to the White House and, frankly, also 
to every law enforcement agent in the field that we're proud of you and 
that we want you to protect our border.