---
---

# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `c7f6430cf033c84edcd143081a6700f5`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 24 July 2009`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, while there are a number of provisions 
in the Fiscal Year 2010 National Defense Authorization Act that I 
support, I have some serious concerns about the bill that prevent me 
from supporting it. In particular, this bill does not contain a binding 
deadline to end the war in Iraq. While I am pleased that the President 
has committed to withdrawing our troops by the end of 2011, this 
redeployment schedule is too long and therefore may undermine our 
ability to combat al-Qaida and further strain our Armed Forces 
unnecessarily. In addition, while the President clearly understands 
that the greatest threat to our Nation resides in Pakistan, I remain 
concerned that his strategy regarding Afghanistan and Pakistan does not 
adequately address, and may even exacerbate, the problems we face in 
Pakistan. This bill authorizes funding that is being used to increase 
our military presence in Afghanistan, without ensuring that this 
strategy does not end up pushing militants into neighboring Pakistan 
and further destabilizing that nuclear-armed nation.

Among the provisions in the bill that I strongly support are a pay 
raise for those serving in uniform, a task force to review care for 
wounded warriors, and $20 million in additional funding for the 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.

In addition, my amendment to ensure that wounded members of the 
Reserve component are not discharged until their disabilities have been 
evaluated will help ensure a smooth transition back into civilian life 
for these service members. I am pleased that this amendment was 
accepted and thank Senator Levin and Senator McCain for their 
cooperation.

I am also pleased that the Senate accepted my amendment to require a 
report on the adequacy of funding for forces needed to respond to the 
consequences of a chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear 
explosive incident in the United States. Historically, the Defense 
Department has delayed efforts to stand up these forces and underfunded 
similar capabilities. This amendment will help ensure that these key 
civil support forces receive necessary funds.

Unfortunately, the Senate Armed Services Committee rejected my 
amendment to ensure our troops are not exposed to toxic fumes in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. This commonsense amendment would have prohibited the 
burning, in open pits, of waste that produces toxic fumes, including 
that which produces known carcinogens. I have urged the chairman to 
accede to the language in the House bill, which I helped to draft, that 
would prohibit this practice.

I continue to be concerned that foreign military assistance funds 
authorized by this bill are being awarded in violation of the Foreign 
Assistance Act. I will continue to work to ensure that the Pentagon 
complies with Federal law in its administration of these programs. The 
Foreign Assistance Act ensures that our foreign military assistance is 
administered in a manner that will promote legitimate governments and 
the rule of law. Failure to comply with these statutory requirements 
runs the risk of provoking instability, militancy and anti-Americanism 
in key regions throughout the world.

The bill contains a provision prohibiting the outsourcing of 
interrogations ''during or in the aftermath of hostilities.'' I have 
previously cosponsored similar amendments covering the intelligence 
community.

I am pleased that the legislation includes changes to the Military 
Commissions Act to improve the procedures that would be used in 
military commission trials. The Military Commissions Act violated the 
basic principles and values of our constitutional system of government, 
and any improvement to it is welcome. However, I remain concerned that 
the military commission process is so discredited that it may not be 
possible to fix it. And I have yet to hear a convincing argument that 
other options for bringing detainees to justice--the civilian Federal 
criminal justice system and the military courts martial system--are 
insufficient or unworkable.

The bill requires a report on the Department's efforts to reduce 
spending on unneeded spare parts. I have long had concerns about 
wasteful spending on unnecessary spare parts. I was pleased that early 
this year, at my urging, the Air Force committed to reducing its on 
order excess inventory by half, thus saving American taxpayers roughly 
$50 million.

This bill largely supports the President's efforts to restore fiscal 
responsibility to the defense budget. I was


pleased to support Senator Levin and Senator McCain's amendment 
stripping funds for the F-22 from the bill. The Defense Department has 
stated that it does not need any more of these aircraft, and that these 
funds are urgently needed to meet the real-world threats that we face 
today. I am also pleased that the President has reduced spending on 
redundant and unproven missile defense technologies. I am disappointed, 
however, that this bill contains billions of dollars of earmarks not 
requested by the Pentagon. This wasteful spending takes money away from 
our troops and endangers our national security.