---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c7f7f04b225f121024bf7a775a4c9568`
`Mrs. DAVIS of California — 13 February 2007`

---


Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of our 
extraordinary troops and oppose sending over 20,000 additional U.S. 
forces into the middle of Iraq's violent sectarian conflict. I oppose 
the President's plan because it will not end the insurgency, halt 
military activity, or accelerate our departure from Iraq. The plan is 
not a strategic change.

Rather, it is the continuation of a failed policy. When Congress 
voted to authorize the use of military force, I voted ''no.'' I felt at 
that time that we had not exhausted all diplomatic avenues and that 
unilateral action would have a grave effect on our strategic position 
in the world. More significantly, it could undercut the broader long-
term war against Islamic extremism. Sadly, Mr. Speaker, many of these 
predictions have come through. We now find ourselves in a position 
where only grim choices remain.



The war in Iraq has indeed strained our military, drained taxpayer 
dollars and damaged our credibility in the international community. As 
a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have heard from a 
number of administration officials and academic experts on the way 
forward in Iraq. And many of these experts have warned against 
increasing the number of troops.

Last November, General Abizaid told Congress that an increase in U.S. 
troop levels would only delay the ability of Iraqis to take the lead. 
Mr. Speaker, what changed between November and today? Even the most 
ardent proponents of the troop increase acknowledge that to work all 
pieces must come together.

First, the military must be able to quell sectarian and insurgent 
violence. And then if the violence subsides long enough for a window of 
opportunity to open, the economic and political components must be 
executed flawlessly.

Even if our forces are successful in reducing violence in the short 
term, assurances cannot be given that other parts of the government 
will be able to address the economic and political components of the 
President's plan.

Well, the track record of the administration and the Maliki 
government make it hard to believe that such a plan will bring real 
results. One of the most egregious errors of our entire experience in 
Iraq has been the failure to put trained experts in critical civilian 
positions.

To accomplish this new mission, civilian agencies have been asked to 
send several hundred experts to Iraq to carry out the plan. However, 
the military has reported that because of hiring delays, DOD will have 
to assign their own personnel because U.S. civilian agencies are unable 
to fill the much needed positions.

Mr. Speaker, it should not be the role of the military to rebuild 
nations on their own. We should have been leveraging our talented and 
experienced Federal workforce all along. Many of my colleagues have 
already discussed key issues such as readiness and equipment levels, 
but two of the greatest concerns I have with the President's plan are 
the effect on our volunteer force and the strategic risk that is 
created by putting more military assets into Iraq.

By adding more troops, the administration leaves our Nation with 
fewer resources to deal with Afghanistan and future contingencies. Will 
we be able to respond if our military is needed elsewhere? With more of 
our troops bogged down, will our allies around the world continue to 
have faith in our ability to respond to extremist and military threats 
around the globe?

We must answer these questions. But I have not heard satisfactory 
responses from the President or military officials. Mr. Speaker, I also 
oppose the surge because the present administration has not 
sufficiently answered questions about the impact on military personnel. 
For those in the military, this war hits close to home every day.

While we have asked few Americans to sacrifice during this conflict, 
servicemembers and their families continue to face the uncertainty of 
repeated deployments, injury and in some cases the death of a loved 
one. They deserve better.

Mr. Speaker, I told President Bush that veterans in my district have 
said, ''We are a military at war, not a Nation at war.'' And military 
leaders agree. Mr. Speaker, if we truly want to create a situation 
where we can withdraw our troops, we need to escalate our diplomatic 
efforts and call on Iraq's neighbors to help the Iraqi Government make 
the tough political decisions needed to reduce the violence.

We must not give in to the President's diversion, but develop a 
multipronged strategic plan the American and the Iraqi people deserve