# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `c7f7df565fa85449d6e724dc409e9ac1`
`Mr. OBEY â€” 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Chairman, I have just one observation to make about the 
remarks of the previous speaker when he indicated that the Speaker did 
not want to hear the truth.

I would simply observe that when the VA several years ago was 
insisting that the administration's budget for veterans' health care 
was insufficient to meet the needs, the Speaker heard the truth and 
acted on it. And as a result, even in the teeth of fierce opposition 
from the administration, she insisted that we provide another $1 
billion to the veterans' health care budget. And eventually, even the 
VA came to admit that that money was needed.

When veterans' organizations after our party took control of the 
Congress 1.5 years ago, when those veterans' organizations told us that 
we needed to provide at least $3.5 billion more than the President's 
budget had provided for veterans' health care, she heard the truth and 
she acted on it.

The Speaker need never take a back seat to the gentleman from Indiana 
or anyone else in this chamber when it comes to hearing the truth and 
acting on it when it concerns America's veterans. She made quite clear 
that the welfare of American veterans was going to be her number one 
budget priority when she became Speaker, because she was objecting to 
the fact that the only families in America who ever had to make any 
sacrifice because of the Iraq war were military families. That was 
indeed a truth which she not only heard but saw and acted upon, and 
this House can be proud of that on both sides of the aisle.

I yield back the balance of my time.