---
---

# STOP EXCESSIVE ENERGY SPECULATION ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `c80212dbaa9f7ae94100b4d33d75d9c4`
`Mr. KYL — 21 July 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I wish to go back to the discussion about the 
subject we want to devote a lot of attention to this week, and that is 
gas prices. Senator Bond spoke to that issue a little earlier. We are 
going to be going to that issue tomorrow. It is critical that we 
address this problem before the August recess in a couple of weeks.

Forty-four Republicans have cosponsored the Gas Price Reduction Act, 
about which Senator Bond spoke. It is a balanced approach to our energy 
crisis. It recognizes the need for additional production, as well as 
dealing with the demand side. In other words, use less, find more, and 
to do so here at home, to use American energy to solve this American 
crisis. That way we can have more control over our own destiny, a point 
I will be making in a moment.

The other side, though, has decided to approach this problem with a 
very narrow and limited approach dealing with so-called speculators. 
Speculators are people who trade in crude oil. There is a view that 
speculators actually affect the price when they buy it or sell it.

The first point I wish to make is the opposition always talks about 
driving up the price when speculators buy, but they never bother to 
mention that every time you buy, somebody else sells. So it is a little 
hard to see how speculators are responsible only for the increase. As a 
matter of fact, last week was the largest drop in oil prices ever in 
our history, at least in the last couple of decades, over $20. I don't 
think anybody blamed the speculators for the decline, or maybe I should 
say they didn't cheer the speculators for the decline or drop in oil 
prices. So it is a little odd every time the price goes up, it is the 
speculators' fault, but when the price goes down, well, maybe that is 
the market forces taking control. The reality is that for every 
purchase, you have to have someone who is selling.

I did think it was interesting that the majority leader was here 
earlier and he actually attributed that decline to the fact that we 
were talking about legislation dealing with speculators. I see no 
evidence to support that claim and, in fact, I will cite some evidence 
quite to the contrary in a moment. But it reminds me of a great fable 
writer by the name of Stephen Leecock who tells the story about the two 
fleas on the back of the Roman chariot. They look back and say: My, 
what a fine cloud of dust we are creating. It seems to me that is 
pretty similar to contending this speculation bill caused the drop in 
prices. I think we all know what it was. When President Bush announced 
the end of the Executive moratorium on drilling, that is when the 
prices went down. As a matter of fact, Joseph Trevisani, who is the 
chief market analyst for a company called FX Solutions, said a few days 
ago:




 President Bush lifted the executive ban on offshore 


 drilling on Monday and by Friday crude prices had completed 


 their sharpest fall in percentage terms since 2004.


He went on to say:




 Oil traders are betting that this Congressional ban on 


 drilling which covers 85 percent of U.S. Continental waters 


 will not stand.


That is the point. When we start seriously talking about eliminating 
the ban on production, that is when prices will go down. Why is that? 
Speculators are actually very smart researchers who are trying to 
figure out whether demand will exceed supply or supply will exceed 
demand some time in the future--16 months out, 18 months, 2 years, 5 
years, whatever it might be. They do a lot of research to try to figure 
this out. It doesn't take a genius to figure out that if you have a 
legal ban on more production and you lift that ban, obviously you are 
going to potentially produce a lot more crude oil. That increase in 
supply will obviously affect the price because it will then exceed the 
demand or at least it will keep pace with demand. That is simple market 
economics. That is what happened last week. It illustrates the fact 
that while there are those who say if we increase our production, it is 
going to take 3 to 7 years before we will see any of that production, 
the mere fact that we are getting serious about doing it was enough to 
reduce prices. I suspect if we actually pass a law that does it, the 
prices will decline even further and will continue to decline as 
progress is made toward increased production.

The reality is that prices rise and fall depending on a lot of events 
that are outside our control, and we need to bring more of those 
decisions within our control. There is a hurricane in the gulf. Iran is 
rattling its sword in the Middle East. Those kinds of things cause the 
prices to go up because there is a suggestion that the supply may be 
interrupted in the future. Then by the same token, we react to good 
news, as occurred last week. When the President says we are going to 
remove the moratorium that by Executive order has been placed on 
production and Congress says we are considering legislation to remove 
the congressional moratoria as well, speculators react to that as well.

The other side, which says it is all the speculators who are to blame 
for the rising prices, might as well blame the weatherman for bad 
weather. His job is to do the research and predict what the weather is 
going to be. Muzzling him and saying he cannot talk about the weather 
is not going to create sunny days next week. Those days are going to 
come because of weather factors, not because the expert in the field is 
predicting it one way or the other. It is the same thing with these so-
called speculators who are in the business of buying, whether it is for 
an airline or a pension fund or for whomever. Their job is to try to 
determine what the market price should be at any given time.

I talked about trying to gain more control of it ourselves. 
Unfortunately, there are a lot of producers in the world that have an 
interest in increasing the price of oil and have the means of doing so 
by simply acting badly. I am speaking of countries such as Russia, 
Iran, and Venezuela. In Iran, we know they have rattled their sword in 
the past, and that not only advances their national policy goals, but 
it also has a tendency to cause panic in the market and, therefore, the 
prices go up because there is a view there may not be an adequate 
supply for the demand we have.

For example, I note the fact that all of the oil through the gulf--it 
is not just Iranian oil; it is from the Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, 
and other countries. About two-fifths of all globally traded oil goes 
through the Strait of Hormuz, and Iran is on one side of the Strait of 
Hormuz. They have their ships in the area. At one time or another they 
have tried to interfere with


the shipping traffic lanes through the Strait of Hormuz.

For example, in June 2006, the threat of Iran obtaining a nuclear 
weapon created quite a stir among New York traders, and that drove the 
price of oil up to nearly $80 a barrel. In 2007, five armed Iranian 
boats approached three U.S. Navy warships in international waters, 
taking aggressive actions. The Pentagon described it as ''reckless and 
dangerous.'' The incident only lasted about 20 minutes. As a result, 
there was a brief spike in oil prices as soon as that was reported on 
CNN.

The reality is that a country such as Iran can have an effect on the 
price of oil. What we need to do is get away from that kind of 
situation. The same thing is true of Russia. I talked about this the 
other day. Russia has a tendency when it wants--by the way, it is the 
second largest producer ahead of Saudi Arabia--when it wants to affect 
the price of oil or national policy, it can cut off the supply of oil 
or natural gas, and that can result not only in shivers running through 
the countries of Europe, particularly Eastern Europe which relies on 
this natural gas and oil, but also affects the world price.

I note that Gazprom, which is Russia's natural gas monopoly, controls 
a lot of other things as well. Its former chairman is Dmitry Medvedev, 
the new President of Russia. It alone accounts for 25 percent of the 
country's tax revenues. So this is a major deal.

Russia has used Gazprom as a political tool in more than one 
situation when it affected Ukraine after that nation allegedly failed 
to pay debts to Russia, or other European countries, such as the Czech 
Republic when it said it would cooperate with the United States in 
missile defense.

Let me conclude with Venezuela. President Chavez of Venezuela has 
repeatedly threatened to cut off oil from that country. A 2006 GAO 
report stated this cutoff could amount to increased oil prices of $11 
per barrel and would cut American GDP by $23 billion.


The point here is that the United States needs to gain more control 
over its own destiny. We are the third largest producer in the world. 
We have vast resources of natural gas and crude oil, as well as other 
resources, such as coal, uranium, and others, but we have an aversion 
to produce in this country because of the not-in-my-back-yard problem 
associated with wherever that production might be. As a result, 
Republicans have proposed legislation that would remove the moratoria 
that currently preclude production and provide incentives to States to 
permit offshore. Even though it is far off of their State limits, in 
Federal waters, it would at least provide an incentive for them to 
agree to production offshore, thus enhancing American production and 
more control over our own destiny.

That is the point I want to conclude with. It is time to gain control 
of our own destiny. It will enable us to affect the prices ourselves by 
producing more and, thus, reducing prices, not relying so much upon 
other countries, which can adversely affect the price by withholding 
production or creating conflict in the world. It will enable us to 
develop the resources safely in an environmental way, because we know 
how to do that. We know we can't conserve our way out of the problem. 
We know the so-called renewables can only meet a small fraction of our 
needs. And we further know that regulating speculators is not going to 
produce one additional drop of oil. So that is why Republicans have 
focused on more energy production--American energy for American 
consumers--as a way to become less energy dependent and affect the 
price in a meaningful way, a way which could permit us, as we saw last 
week, to drastically reduce the price of oil almost overnight if 
Congress were to pass this legislation.

I urge my colleagues, when we take this matter up, as Senator Bond 
said, to permit a full and free debate, and amendments that we have to 
offer here, so at the end of the day Congress can complete our work 
over the next couple of weeks by passing meaningful legislation to 
reduce the cost of oil and, therefore, importantly for American 
consumers, the price we pay at the pump.