---
---

# TRIBUTE TO OUR FALLEN SOLDIERS
## `c8057c44f38c6b4d5d02aa4a2996dd31`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 22 May 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this coming Monday, Americans 
will gather to do what so many families wish they did not have to do. 
That is to mourn the dead who have fallen in battle.

Certainly there will be many who will come simply to honor them as 
heroes, but many of the families will have the fresh memories of young 
men and women who have recently fallen in the wars in Afghanistan and 
Iraq.

I rise to take this opportunity on behalf of the 18th Congressional 
District, of the people of Houston, Texas, to acknowledge and respect 
and pay tribute to the soldiers of this Nation that have fallen in 
battle throughout the centuries.

For it is, in fact, true that our freedoms are vested in the 
willingness of young men and women who take the oath to give the 
ultimate sacrifice so that our Constitution and our values may be 
preserved. And I take their oath very seriously and believe it is 
important that, as Members of the United States Congress and the 
Commander in Chief, that when we send Americans into battle, it must be 
based upon thought and prayers and reason.

But this coming Monday, we will embrace these families, some who are 
freshly mourning, others who have long memories. We will commemorate 
the missing in action, the POWs, all who have suffered at the hands of 
the violence of others.

In Houston, Texas, we commemorate Memorial Day at out Veterans 
Cemetery. It is in my congressional district. And I have over the years 
enjoyed the fellowship with the families and the sacred spirit of what 
occurs. This Memorial Day I will place a memorial wreathe in Europe in 
honor of those troops who have fallen. My staff will represent me at 
the memorial commemoration. But they will also be present and my 
community will be present on Sunday as they place small white crosses 
to acknowledge the number of soldiers who have now died in Iraq.

Memorial Day is a time for the Nation to come together. It is not an 
accusatory time. It is to recognize everyone's fallen life equally, 
with appreciation and deep gratitude.

And so, Mr. Speaker, I have risen today to assure those families who 
mourn for the recent loss, those who are mourning of memories past, 
that America remains a grateful Nation. And on behalf of those of the 
18th Congressional District, to the fallen soldiers and those families 
who mourn, I offer them my deepest and most sincere debt of gratitude 
and sympathy.

Let this Memorial Day be a reminder of the preciousness of life, the 
soldiers who serve us, but as well the ultimate cost that is paid in 
war. And let it remind us that, yes, we have valiant heroes, but that 
we as a Nation should continue to work as hard as we can to achieve 
peace not only amongst us but around the world.

May God bless those who have fallen, God bless their families, and 
God bless America.
