---
---

# None
## `c8373c44bd49da1ba5e754509c5e7487`
`Mr. ELLSWORTH — 8 July 2009`

---


Mr. ELLSWORTH. Mr. Chair, I would like to thank the distinguished 
chairwoman of the subcommittee for yielding.

I would like to thank her and her colleagues on the Agriculture 
appropriations subcommittee for not only approving this this year but 
also last year, and I rise in opposition to the gentleman's amendment.

Mr. Chair, I got home from Afghanistan 2 days ago; and while I was 
there in the Khost province, I was fortunate enough to visit with the 
Indiana National Guard. And besides their soldiering duties, some of 
other things they were doing was helping the Afghanistan agriculture 
farmers to better their practices of farming in Afghanistan. I would 
guess that if I asked the 14,000 farmers in Indiana in my district and 
if Mr. Campbell asked the 132 farmers in his district, according to the 
2007 agriculture census, and I have 9,000 farms in my district and Mr. 
Campbell has 72 farms in his district, according to the same document, 
that if we asked those farmers in our two respective districts, Should 
we spend money in Afghanistan on their agriculture or spend


it right here in the United States, I'm just going to take a guess that 
they might say, let's spend some of it here. And that's what this 
amendment would try to preclude.

I'd like to take this opportunity, as Mr. Campbell said, to defend 
this program because it was fully funded last year, and I'd ask that it 
would be funded this year again. This is the Specialty Crops Research, 
Extension, and Training Center at the Southwest-Purdue Agricultural 
Center. This project is a collaboration between Purdue University and 
Vincennes University. It is housed in Vincennes, Indiana. This farmland 
in Knox County, Indiana, is particularly well suited for growing fresh 
fruits and vegetables, and the Southwest-Purdue Agricultural Center 
provides an important resource for farmers to improve crop quality and 
yields and decrease pesticide use.

The request I submitted to the Appropriations Committee would direct 
funds, as Mr. Campbell said, to the center for upgrades to their 
equipment and in personnel. Mr. Chair, they do a lot of great things 
there. This is critical for conducting research on crops in our area. I 
also will remind you that where I live in midwest Indiana is within a 
day's drive of 40 percent of the American population. Indiana is proud. 
We are proud of our farmers, and we're proud to supply food to the 
Midwest and across our country. And because approximately 40 percent of 
the Nation's population live within a day's drive of that area, we 
think it's extremely important to explore all of the possibilities of 
that area. And no one does it better than this extension and this 
agriculture center.

We all know the value of adding fresh fruits and vegetables to our 
diets, and Americans are struggling right now with obesity and related 
health issues. Proper diet and nutrition habits are critical components 
to making this country healthier. New expanded fruit and vegetable 
production is extremely critical. I think it's important to note that 
this is not new funding. This is in the USDA's appropriated funds. So 
who's better to say where this money might be spent, the Congressman 
who drives the streets and the roads and the highways and on the farms 
and talks to the farmers and the ranchers in southern Indiana or a 
bureaucrat sitting in a booth somewhere in Washington, D.C., that says, 
''These people get this and these people get that''? I think it's the 
Congressman and the farmers from Indiana.