---
---

# OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `c83fd2bfbb1ad827d8fb660d6f94b87a`
`Mr. LEAHY — 5 March 2009`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, to go back to the subject at hand, I do 
wish to speak briefly in opposition to an amendment offered by Senator 
Inhofe. It is amendment No. 613. According to the unanimous consent 
agreement entered into by my dear friend, the senior Senator from 
Mississippi, we are going to vote on that amendment later today.

His amendment prohibits any United States funding to the United 
Nations if the United Nations imposes a tax on any United States 
person. It's like: My gosh, how did we ever overlook this situation? 
But this amendment is a textbook case of legislating when there is 
absolutely no rhyme or reason and shooting ourselves in the foot at the 
same time.

It is not a response to anything that has happened in the entire 
history of the United Nations. It is something that apparently the 
author of the amendment imagines maybe, some time, somehow, somewhere 
this could happen.

The United Nations has never levied a tax on anyone. It is not a 
taxing organization. This provision was originally put in many years 
ago when anti-United Nations sentiment was high. It was a feel-good, 
chest-thumping response to a totally imagined, non-existent problem.

I call it the Godzilla amendment. Let's pass a law that says if 
Godzilla comes tromping down the National Mall, he is prohibited from 
coming within 100 yards of the Nation's Capitol Building.

The fact is, of course, there is no Godzilla and there never will be. 
The U.N. has no taxing authority. It does not impose taxes. There has 
never been a U.N. tax on Americans. There is no realistic possibility 
that there ever will be.

This would be like saying if the United Nations ever passes a law to 
rename the United States of America, we will cut off funding. It is not 
going to happen.

Every year each appropriations subcommittee receives requests from 
Senators for what they want included in the bill. Both the ranking 
Republican member and the Democratic chairman look at all these 
requests. No Senator requested the language proposed by the Senator 
from Oklahoma. The Bush administration never requested this language. 
Both I and Senator Gregg saw absolutely no reason to continue to 
include it. It has no practical effect.

The Senator from Oklahoma has had since last July, over half a year, 
to ask for its inclusion if he wanted. He never did. President Bush, 
Vice President Cheney, Secretary of State Rice--none of them saw any 
reason for it.

This sort of falls into the ''we need to prohibit black helicopters 
from coming in the middle of the night from the


United Nations.'' It is fantasy. But if we did adopt it, what an 
embarrassment for this country, the only country in the world to adopt 
such an amendment.

At a time when we are trying to reestablish the reputation and 
leadership of the United States, why would we put Congress on record 
threatening the United Nations not to do something that it is never 
going to do? We are not some two-bit country that wants to stand up and 
wave a flag and show how tough it is. We are not the mouse that roared. 
We are the United States of America. And doing something like this, the 
rest of the world is going to look at us and say: Why are you doing 
such silly things?

The Senator's amendment would cut off funding for U.N. peacekeeping, 
for the operations of the U.N. Security Council, for UNICEF, for all 
the things we are asking the United Nations to do in Iraq, Afghanistan, 
Darfur, the Middle East, and around the world. That is what the 
amendment says. It is an anachronism. It has no basis in fact.

Does anyone think that even if they wanted to the other members of 
the U.N. Security Council could do that over a United States veto? It's 
impossible.

We already pay our assessed dues to the United Nations. Is that a 
tax? We have to pay it. It comes out of the Federal budget, and the 
Federal budget is taxpayer money. Should we stop paying that?

Let's stop treating the United Nations as the enemy. Let's start 
showing maturity and leadership. The amendment was an unnecessary piece 
of legislation years ago when it was first offered by Senator Jesse 
Helms, and it is no less so today.

No President, even if the U.N. had the ability to, which it does 
not--even if it tried, whoever was President would simply instruct our 
Representative to the United Nations: Veto it.

It is a solution looking for a problem.

I yield the floor.