# CONSTITUTIONAL CHECKS AND BALANCES
## `c84531c9945842b93d1bca7e194d9446`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman. It is true 
that all of our areas and our districts around the country are 
different in many ways, but it is also true that they are the same, and 
our people have the same needs in many ways.

The gentleman from Florida talked about Hurricane Katrina. The 
gentleman from Minnesota mentioned the trailers that FEMA didn't know 
were contaminated with formaldehyde. Two weeks ago, in my district, the 
town of Deer Park discovered they had lead contamination in their 
highway department building and their town hall


that was measured at 5,000-plus parts per million of indoor air 
contamination of lead.

My office called and we got FEMA to send a trailer over 2 days later 
so they could set up some computers and telephones and at least have a 
rudimentary office in the parking lot next to their closed-down office 
being remediated for lead contamination.

Three days later, the following Monday, I found that FEMA had come 
and towed the trailer away because it was contaminated with 
formaldehyde. Two-plus years after Hurricane Katrina, they still don't 
know which of their trailers have formaldehyde in them and which ones 
don't.

That is why oversight is needed. Whether it is the Veterans' Affairs 
Committee, which has performed significant oversight, whether it is the 
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee looking at Coast Guard 
sweetheart deals with military contractors that resulted in eight 
vessels being lengthened by 13 feet and rendered unseaworthy, the 123s, 
as they call them, so they are now being scrapped in Baltimore Harbor, 
or whether it is oversight of the conduct of the war in Iraq, this body 
needs to perform oversight, and I am glad after the last 6 years, it is 
finally doing so.