# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `c84577c5665e67d577612df4c952c8ed`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, we believe attaching nongermane 
amendments to this critical veterans' bill could jeopardize its passage 
by unnecessarily delaying it or even grinding debate completely to a 
halt. This is unacceptable. My colleagues, those aren't my words. Those 
are the words of the Veterans of Foreign Wars.

Let me agree with my distinguished colleague. And let me say, last 
night at about midnight I told this chamber that Mr. Lewis has been one 
of the champions throughout his public service career on behalf of our 
veterans and our troops. I meant it when I said it then, and I mean it 
when I say it again now.

But let me say, having said that, no one is perfect. And on this 
motion, I think Mr. Lewis is wrong. Seriously wrong.

I do agree with this point he made just a moment ago; there may be 
confusion on this bill. There may be, so let me clear up the confusion.

This is the 2009 fiscal year Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs appropriations bill. If there is any confusion as to whether 
this is the 2009 fiscal year energy bill, get that out of your minds 
right now.

This is a bill designed for the deadly serious purpose of honoring 
our veterans. Millions of them have put on our Nation's uniform and 
gone into harm's way in defense of your family and my family and the 
American family. This bill is deadly serious, because it provides 
training facilities and barracks for young men and women who are 
willing to go to Iraq and Afghanistan to answer their Nation's call of 
duty.

By making this motion, the gentleman knows, were it to pass, even 
though he knows also that it is nongermane, it would complicate this 
bill, it would slow down this bill, it could well kill this bill 
because of the honest differences on the energy issue.










Announcement By the Speaker Pro Tempore
