---
---

# HONORING SERGEANT DONALD EDGERTON FOR HIS SERVICE IN IRAQ AND  AFGHANISTAN
## `c856f8e457afe820e26daf2bc693c0ad`
`Mr. SHULER — 22 July 2010`

---


Mr. SHULER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor SGT Donald ''Rocky'' 
Edgerton of Murphy, North Carolina, for his valiant service in the 
United States Army. After September 11th, Sergeant Edgerton's profound 
sense of duty for his country moved him to join the Army.

He spent his first tour of duty in Iraq, and after serving his 
country for over a year, he came back with an even deeper feeling of 
obligation. He was then chosen to enroll in sniper school, where he 
earned the reputation of ''top gun'' due to his incredible accuracy 
with a rifle. When he was called for another tour of duty in 
Afghanistan, Sergeant Edgerton fearlessly welcomed the challenge even 
though he had to leave behind his beloved wife and young daughter.



On July 10, the day after his 33rd birthday, Sergeant Edgerton was 
leading his troops just north of Char Dara, Afghanistan when insurgents 
attacked his unit and detonated an improvised explosive device that 
ultimately took his life. A short while prior, Edgerton had just been 
nominated for a Bronze Star Medal for saving the lives of several 
members of his convoy during an attack.

Edgerton received various medals and accolades for his service, 
including the Army Achievement Medal, the National Defense Service 
Medal, the Iraq Campaign Medal, the Afghanistan Campaign Medal, the 
Global War on Terror Medal, the NATO Medal, the Army Service Ribbon, 
and two Overseas Service Ribbons. He was also awarded the Purple Heart, 
the Bronze Star Medal, the Army Good Conduct Medal, and the Combat 
Action Badge, all posthumously.

Madam Speaker, Sergeant Edgerton embodied the most essential 
qualities of an American soldier. He was selfless, dedicated, and 
brave. He is remembered as a man who put the safety of his fellow 
troops before his own, and accordingly a man who has earned the 
unwavering respect of his peers. Through his exemplary service in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, SGT Donald Edgerton has brought pride to our troops, 
his family, and all of Western North Carolina. It is truly my honor to 
commemorate him and I urge my colleagues to join me today in honoring 
the life of SGT Donald ''Rocky'' Edgerton for the sacrifices he has 
made for our country.
