---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c863043dc46037408d3174e2f3825ccb`
`Mr. SESTAK — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Mr. Speaker, 1 year ago, I retired from the U.S. Navy 
after 31 years in our military, serving our Nation during the 
challenges of peace and in the fury of war, including commanding an 
aircraft carrier battle group of 30 ships and 15,000 sailors in combat 
operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. Having worn the cloth of this 
Nation for so long, I know that our military is a national treasure 
that cannot be hoarded like miser's gold if it is to be a force for 
peace and progress, but nor can it be used recklessly. And now, as a 
Member of the House of Representatives, I am conscious that war is a 
shared responsibility in our Constitution between the President and 
Congress, as are the respective responsibilities of the executive and 
legislative branches to ensure U.S. security, and to provide for our 
common defense.

My experience leads me to be concerned for U.S. security because of 
Iraq, a tragic misadventure that does not permit us to best address 
more important security challenges throughout the world. My experience 
also says don't double down on a bad military bet by using more troops 
as the President has proposed, when an increase has not worked before; 
have confidence in our diplomatic ability to lead regional negotiations 
for stability, even with Syria and Iran; and, set a date certain for 
redeploying out of Iraq, this year, to serve as the necessary leverage 
to have the Iraqis accept the reality of the personal consequence of 
not assuming responsibility for their nation.

What concerns me about Iraq is the continuing use of our national 
treasure in what is an inconclusive, open-ended involvement within a 
country where the long-term benefits do not match what we need to reap, 
and where the tradeoffs in benefits of not focusing elsewhere is 
harming our future prosperity, interests, and values.

We need to apply our resources elsewhere in the world, where 
terrorists come from, including Osama bin Laden, who is still on the 
loose, or where emerging nations such as in the Western Pacific have 
growing political and economic interests, and therefore influence, that 
may challenge ours.

An alternative strategy is just what is needed, because remaining in 
Iraq means less security and a greater strategic security risk for 
America. It negatively impacts the readiness of our Armed Forces and 
hinders our ability to adequately focus on other security priorities 
here at home and throughout the world, including the global war on 
terror and regional challenges from Afghanistan, North Korea, and Iran 
to the Western Pacific and Middle East regions.

The fact is we have fostered a culture of dependence in Iraq, and it 
is time for Iraqi leaders to be responsible for their own country. They 
must make the difficult political compromises that will stop the civil 
war we are refereeing and bring about stability. We cannot do this work 
for them. Nor is that wonderful phrase I heard often when deployed to 
that region throughout the years, Anshala, Bugra: God willing, 
tomorrow, good enough any longer.

So, yes, I will vote for this resolution, because sending more troops 
to Iraq and remaining there indefinitely will only increase the 
dependence of the Iraqis on America, both politically and militarily, 
at a time when they should be shouldering increased responsibility for 
their country, while impacting our degraded military and strategic 
security readiness further.

But I also believe we need to go a step further and pursue an 
alternative strategy, which is why last week I introduced binding 
legislation setting the end of 2007 for our redeployment from Iraq. The 
rationale for doing so is clear: Redeployment from Iraq will enhance 
our security by allowing us to properly address other potential 
challenges around the world, and by allowing us to resolve the concerns 
about the readiness of our Armed Forces here at home.

Rather than leading to a spiral of violence, redeploying from Iraq 
will serve as the necessary catalyst for the Iraqis to assume 
responsibility for their country, with regional nations then interested 
in ensuring stability when the United States is outside that country, 
but remaining with strength in the region. The needed reconciliation 
will only come about when the Iraqi political leaders are forced to 
take the difficult political steps needed to cease the violence in 
their country, such as building coalitions among competing sects, 
ensuring minority rights, balancing power between provincial and 
central governments, and sharing oil revenues among all regions in 
Iraq. And regional nations', particularly Syria's and Iran's, 
incentives change toward stability when the United States is no longer 
in the midst of the civil war, and these nations will have to bear the 
consequences of further strife, with refugee flows to their countries, 
and the possibility that these relatively allied nations could then be 
joined into a proxy battle to their detriment, as one is primarily 
Sunni and the other Shia.

Only by a strategy of setting a date certain, a deliberate timetable 
for redeployment, are we able to create a catalyst for the political 
leaders in Iraq to acknowledge and accept that they must undertake the 
difficult political steps necessary to cease the sectarian violence, as 
they understand that they otherwise would bear the consequences of not 
assuming the responsibility for their country.

Iraq is not the central front in terrorism. Rather, it is a result of 
our leadership forgetting the age-old axiom that ''successful generals 
win, then they go to war.'' In short, we did not accurately plan before 
we went into Iraq, and we should redeploy.

The only way is to use our redeployment as the catalyst for Iraqis 
and other regional nations to accept their responsibilities for a 
relative peace. U.S. interests in the world do not


include pouring endless amounts of our national treasure of lives and 
money into elusive, endless goals when there is an alternative 
strategy, and when we have so much else to achieve in this world.