---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1433, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE  VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007
## `c867376e6e4d0441de7eebf7dbaab632`
`Mr. ARCURI — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 260 provides for 
consideration of H.R. 1433, the District of Columbia House Voting 
Rights Act of 2007, under a closed rule. The rule provides 1 hour and 
20 minutes of general debate, with 1 hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on the Judiciary, and 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the 
chairman and the ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform.

The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the bill 
except those arising under clauses 9 and 10 of rule XXI. The rule 
provides that the amendment printed in the report shall be considered 
as adopted, and the bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. The 
rule waives all points of order against the bill.

Mr. Speaker, this Nation was built upon the principle that it was 
patently unjust to require people to pay taxes to a government within 
which they had no direct involvement, what came to be familiarly called 
''taxation without representation.'' The fact that approximately 
600,000 U.S. citizens live under taxation without representation within 
the United States today is repugnant to our very notion of democracy 
and to those who fought and died in creating this great Nation. How can 
the United States deny democracy in its capital while it promotes 
democracy abroad?

These citizens pay billions of dollars in Federal taxes and have 
sacrificed their lives in Iraq and every other war since the American 
Revolution. This is taxation without representation at its worst, and 
it is completely undemocratic. No other democracy in the world denies 
to its citizens in its capital city the right to vote. We here in 
America, the symbol of democracy to so much of the world, must not deny 
that right to our citizens.

This bipartisan legislation would correct this injustice by granting 
the citizens of our Nation's capital with a voting representative in 
the House of Representatives.

Some of my colleagues have suggested that this legislation is 
unconstitutional, that we in Congress will be acting outside our power 
in enacting this bill. To this, I must respectfully and strongly 
disagree. Article I, section 8 of the Constitution clearly enumerates 
the powers of Congress. Among the powers listed in Article I, section 8 
states that Congress shall have the power ''to exercise exclusive 
legislation in all cases whatsoever over'' the District of Columbia. 
Article I, section 8 also gives Congress the power ''to make all laws 
which shall be necessary and proper'' to execute its enumerated powers.

Further, in 1790, Congress passed the Residence Act, giving residents 
of the new District of Columbia the right to vote. Since the capital 
was still being established, citizens were allowed to continue voting 
in their States, Maryland and Virginia. Congress then took this right 
away by statute in 1800 when the Federal Government assumed control of 
the District of Columbia. In the political battles that followed, 
District residents were denied a vote in Congress. Certainly, if 
Congress can remove the right by statute, so too can it reinstate that 
right by statute.

In the landmark Supreme Court case McCulloch v. Maryland, Chief 
Justice John Marshall said: ''Let the end be legitimate, let it be 
within the scope of the Constitution, and all means which are 
appropriate, which are plainly adapted to that end, which are not 
prohibited, but consist with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, 
are constitutional.''

Extending full representation in the House to residents of the 
District of Columbia is a legitimate end. It is within the scope of 
Congress' power to exercise exclusive legislation in matters concerning 
the District of Columbia and consistent with not only the letter of the 
Constitution but also the spirit in which the Constitution was written 
by our Founding Fathers, that is, ''taxation without representation is 
tyranny.''

I, for one, want to correct this grave injustice and provide the 
citizens of Washington, D.C. with the same rights afforded to every 
other citizen in this great Nation. Our actions today will do just 
that.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.