---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `c86e3dfdb2679ef2e80e1b830e2d1f07`
`Mr. McCAIN — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Chair.

I ask the clerk to tell me when I have consumed 8 minutes.

I come again this morning to the not particularly pleasant task of 
opposing the nomination of General Casey to be Chief of Staff of the 
U.S. Army. I preface my remarks, again, with my appreciation for 
honorable service to the country, his family, and the sacrifices they 
have made for many years. This isn't a question of character because 
his character is outstanding; it is a question of judgment.

I will try to put this in context, why I am in opposition. For 
several years, I and a number of others have bemoaned and complained 
and criticized and been saddened as we have watched this train wreck in 
Iraq. Not long after the initial invasion, I came back from a visit to 
Iraq and visited with the then-Secretary of Defense, who bears great 
responsibility for this debacle, and history will judge him very badly 
for his performance as Secretary of Defense. I told him how it was that 
we were not going to win, we were not going to succeed, that we didn't 
have enough troops over there, that Anbar Province was going to erupt--
basically all the things many of us saw were going to transpire. 
General Casey, for 2/1/2/ years up until recently, would come back to 
the Congress and say that things were going well. I quoted many quotes 
yesterday, from time to time, including in 2005, saying we could start 
withdrawing by 2006 and on and on and on, completely divorced from 
reality on the ground, as was the Secretary of Defense.


I will state at the beginning that Presidents are responsible, but 
Presidents also rely on the advice and counsel of their military 
leaders. That is a normal thing and has happened in every conflict.

President Bush said time and time again: I have said to the American 
people, as Iraqis stand up, we will stand down. But I have also said 
our commanders on the ground will make that decision. We will talk to 
General Casey. On and on. The Army is getting on its feet. We have 
turned over a lot of territory to the Army. They are good fighters. I 
have spent a great deal of time with General Abizaid and General Casey. 
They are in Washington. They are generals who will be happy to tell me 
the way it is, not the way they think I would like to it be.

Time after time, it has been clear that the President of the United 
States, as appropriate, has been relying on the advice and counsel of 
commanders in the field who did not give him appropriate information or 
recommendations. We are all responsible. In the military, you are 
responsible for the decisions you make on the battlefield, particularly 
when they cost our most valuable and important asset--American blood.

In his opening statement at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing 
on September 29, General Casey said: ''The capacity of Iraqi security 
forces has increased quantitatively and qualitatively over the past 
year'' and ''we have also developed with the Iraqis a readiness 
reporting system, not unlike the one we have in place for our own 
forces. So over the past 18 months we have built enough Iraqi capacity 
where we can begin talking seriously about transitioning this 
counterinsurgency mission to them.''

Did he realize at the time that statement was wrong? And when did he 
tell someone?

At the same hearing, General Casey said:




 More coalition is not necessarily better. More and more 


 capable Iraqi security forces are better. Increased coalition 


 presence speeds the notion of occupation. It contributes to 


 the dependency of Iraqi security forces on the coalition. It 


 extends the amount of time it will take for Iraqi security 


 forces to become self-reliant and exposes more coalition 


 forces to attacks at a time when Iraqi security forces are 


 increasingly available and increasingly capable.


There has been no sign of that. Why did it take 15 months for General 
Casey to change that assessment and then not even agree with the new 
strategy of five additional brigades, which most of us pray is enough 
and most of us believe is a direct contravention to the Powell 
doctrine, which is, use overwhelming force in order to gain military 
victory?

President Bush said General Casey will make decisions as to how many 
troops we have there. Why did it take 2/1/2/ years? Why did it have to 
take 2/1/2/ years of steady degradation for General Casey to figure out 
we didn't have enough troops there, and the situation is worsening in 
Iraq.

The NIE that came out yesterday should frighten anyone, any American,


because of the stark depiction in the NIE--the public document--that 
states that the situation is grave and deteriorating in Iraq, which is 
also the conclusion of the Iraq Study Group, whether you happen to 
agree with their recommendations or not.

Mr. President, responsibility is one of the first things that is 
taught at our service academies. We are responsible for our decisions. 
When the Missouri runs aground, we relieve the captain. When four 
sailors are washed overboard, we relieve the captain. Now we are 
rewarding failure as we did during the Vietnam war when we named 
General Westmoreland as Chief of Staff of the Army after a failed 
search and destroy. There are eerie parallels here. General 
Westmoreland employed the search and destroy strategy which is counter 
to any counterinsurgency strategy. That kind of strategy is clear, 
hold, and build. That is what General Petraeus is trying to do now. 
That is not what has been done in the past under General Casey.

So what are we doing? We are promoting a general who has pursued a 
failed policy, advocated it to the President, whom he is responsible to 
advise, and he is advocating it to the Congress of the United States 
despite the overwhelming view by many of us that it was not a 
successful strategy. Still, today, where he will be in place if he is 
confirmed by the Senate, he will be responsible for the operation, 
training, and doctrine that will be employed in Iraq, and he still, to 
this day, as far as I know, from the hearing of a short time ago, 
believes--and I could give the quote--that we are not failing but we 
are succeeding. I don't know of anyone who believes that who is in a 
responsible position in Government.

Mr. President, it is with a bit of regret that I do this. Again, I 
repeat what I said yesterday. Senator Levin asked him:




 I am wondering whether you would agree that what we are 


 doing in Iraq was maybe a slow failure.


General Casey said:




 I don't actually see it as a slow failure. I actually see 


 it as slow progress.


How could you depict the situation in Baghdad today, with six 
helicopters being shot down in the last few weeks, with a spike in 
casualties that has taken place, and the continued level of sectarian 
violence, as a slow progress?

So I want to tell my friends that people in the military, 
particularly our young officers, are watching what we do here. We teach 
them in our service schools, and we teach our noncommissioned officers 
and junior officers: You are responsible for success or failure. That 
is why we appoint you as leaders. In this case, this leader, despite 
his honorable character and dedication to this country, has not led, 
and his responsibility has not been carried out.

So I hope my colleagues will turn down this nomination and that we 
will appoint one of the many highly qualified senior military officers 
we have to fulfill this position.

May I finally say that I am very nervous about this new strategy. I 
am very doubtful that we have enough troops. I don't know if the Maliki 
government will be strong enough. But if General Casey is appointed to 
this position, my confidence will be lowered because it is not 
appropriate to put someone who does not support wholeheartedly the new 
strategy in a position where he will be responsible for a great deal of 
it. To this day, he doesn't admit that this present strategy has 
failed.

Do I have any time remaining?