---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `c86f1529cd38ea2f205efa88430078cc`
`Mr. REYES — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. REYES. Madam Chairwoman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Intelligence is our Nation's first line of defense. In a world of 
asymmetrical threats, it is critical that we detect and disrupt the 
plans and intentions of those who would do us harm. And it is critical 
that we conduct intelligence operations in a way that conforms to our 
laws and to our values as a Nation.

This bill was the product of bipartisan work, and I am pleased that 
the ranking member, Mr. Hoekstra, worked with me over the past several 
weeks and months to draft this bill. We do not agree on every provision 
in this bill, but we agree on the larger points, and we agree that 
intelligence officers in the field deserve our support.

Let me address up front one area where I think there has been some 
confusion, and that is section 407 of the bill, which asks for a 
national intelligence estimate on the national security impact of 
climate change.

We heeded the advice of 11 former 3- and 4-star admirals and generals 
who have studied this issue and specifically recommended an NIE. They 
believe that significant changes in global climate may act as a 
''threat multiplier for instability in some of the most volatile 
regions of our world.''

The ranking member has argued that this work should not divert 
resources from higher priority items. Our committee staff has spoken 
with senior Intelligence Community leaders in the administration, and 
we have been assured that this will not, I repeat, will not divert 
resources.

The data needed is already available. The administration is already 
drafting a community assessment on this very issue. And I want to 
assure the ranking member that we will work with the administration to 
ensure that nothing will divert resources away from higher priority 
efforts.

But I also want to be clear; targeted discussion on this topic is a 
distraction from the key points of this bill. This bill provides 
funding for the men and women in the field. Opposition to this bill 
sends the wrong signal to them.

We are at war, and we face many threats over the horizon. This bill 
contains robust funding for critical intelligence programs to penetrate 
the hard targets, such as terrorist networks and countries developing 
WMD capabilities.

We add funds to both CIA and military elements for human intelligence 
training. We invest in language training for collectors and analysts 
and in language translation capabilities. We add funding for sending 
additional analysts overseas, and we strengthen counterintelligence 
field operations.

We have added funds to broaden our view so that we are spending, not 
just on Iraq, but on some of the other global challenges that we face, 
such as Iran, Russia, East Africa, Latin America and countries in Asia.

We have several provisions that enhance critical oversight. We 
require quarterly intelligence reports to Congress on the nuclear 
weapons programs of Iran and North Korea.

We also require that the CIA Inspector General conduct an audit of 
covert activities no less than once every 3 years. And we require the 
administration to provide the Intelligence Committees with a full list 
of all special access programs.

We also require detailed reports to Congress on the use of 
contractors in the Intelligence Community because their use has grown 
without adequate oversight, both by Congress and even by the executive 
branch.

We also require a strategy for implementing a multi-level security 
clearance system. This will allow patriotic Americans with much needed 
foreign language skills to serve as translators or linguists in the 
Intelligence Community.

And we also promote diversity in the Intelligence Community by 
requiring a strategic plan for implementing the recommendations of a 
highly regarded diversity panel.

I am of the strong view that diversity is a major strategic asset of 
the United States, and we have to leverage that asset to our full 
advantage.

In sum, Madam Chairman, this bill strengthens U.S. intelligence 
capabilities. This bill, if passed and signed into law, will help the 
courageous women and men of our Intelligence Community accomplish their 
mission. They are counting on our support, and tonight I hope we 
respond.

I urge all my colleagues to support this critical legislation.

With that, Madam Chairwoman, I reserve the balance of my time.