---
---

# IRAQ
## `c87675b23825aa8e8e8ddd6d046ac5cd`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, we have heard a debate over the last 
hour about where we stand on the resolutions and debating the 
escalation of the war in Iraq. Here is where we are at the end of the 
day. We can dot all the i's, cross all the t's, and do all of the 
legalistic parsing that we want. The minority is blocking a vote on the 
issue that the American people wish to hear us on: Do you support or 
oppose the escalation? It is that simple.

The minority's action ratifies the President's escalation. And any 
Senator who voted to prevent the Warner resolution from coming to the 
floor is saying to his or her constituents: I support that escalation.

We know what is going on. The minority is torn between loyalty to 
their President and following the will of their voters. I have not seen 
a single State where, at least from the polling data, the public 
supports the escalation. There should be a simple vote, and not as an 
end to this debate but as a beginning to this debate. The minority is 
tying itself in a pretzel so that there will not be a vote.

Now, the Gregg resolution is missing two words. Look at it. Read it. 
It doesn't have the word ''surge,'' and it doesn't have the word 
''escalation.'' It is ambiguously worded so that it tries to tie 
support for the troops with the escalation, but without saying so. It 
is a resolution that is intended to befuddle, perplex, obfuscate, and 
to hide.

The good news is that the American people don't follow the details of 
all of this debate. They don't have the time. They are busy with their 
lives, their families, their jobs, the joys and sorrows of life. But 
they follow the big picture. The big picture is simple: Senator Reid 
has labored mightily to have a clear, unobstructed, unobliterated vote 
on whether you support or oppose the escalation.

The minority leader, backed by all but two of his membership, has 
said we do not want to vote; we want to let the President go forward 
with the escalation, without taking responsibility for it. The public 
is seeing that. The public understands.

My good friend from Mississippi was talking in the hallway. He said 
the job of the Senate is to take the tough votes. You bet it is. It is 
not whether we are saying we support the troops--which everybody agrees 
that we do--in an ambiguously designed amendment to support escalation 
and get their way, and those against it get their way. The bottom line 
is simple: the tough vote is ''yes'' or ''no'' on the escalation.

Again, I salute our majority leader. He has done everything to try to 
bring that vote to the floor. The minority leader has done everything 
to obstruct that vote. The good news is that we will have plenty of 
further opportunity to get that vote and, make no mistake about it, 
this majority, in the belief that the escalation is wrong, in the 
belief that there is no strategy in Iraq


other than to police a civil war, which no one bargained for, will be 
resolute and we will find ample opportunities to not only get a sense-
of-the-Senate vote on whether you support or oppose the escalation, but 
to move further and ratchet up the pressure on the President so that he 
changes his strategy.


The number of people in America who believe that our strategy in Iraq 
is succeeding gets smaller every day. I think it is below 1 in 4 right 
now, which means that close to a majority of Republicans don't agree 
with the strategy. Obviously, if the President came here 3 years ago 
and said we are going to have our troops on Haifa Street patrolling a 
civil war between the Sunnis and Shiites--how many people would have 
voted for that? How many Americans would have supported it? But that is 
exactly what we are doing. The vast majority of the troops that the 
President is asking for will continue to do just that and only that.

So this debate is coming only to a temporary close. One thing stands 
out clearly: the Republican minority is allowing the President to go 
forward with the escalation. It is supporting the escalation but 
doesn't want to vote to say so. My colleagues, that will not wash. The 
American people are too smart. They are too concerned. They are too 
worried about the brave men and women over there risking their lives as 
Sunnis shoot at Shiites and Shiites shoot at Sunnis. To hold the 
minority's feet to the fire, we will be resolute in making sure that 
happens.

The Gregg resolution is obfuscatory. It is designed to give people 
cover who don't want to say yes or no. But make no mistake about it, 
the people want a yes or a no. They want us to act on that yes or no as 
we come forward with the supplementary budget request next month. And 
this majority, limited as it may be, will endeavor to do just that.