# None
## `c887df3f583524228b719f76cbcbe4dd`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, we had a hearing yesterday in the Armed 
Services Committee, of which I am a member, in which General Petraeus 
and Ambassador Crocker made their reports back to the Congress, as they 
promised. They also testified yesterday afternoon before the Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee, and today they are before the House 
committee. I think they had about a 30-minute break or less between the 
testimony here and their testimony in the Foreign Relations Committee. 
I thought General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker did a marvelous job 
and were asked a lot of tough questions, which is the Congress's 
responsibility, I don't dispute.

What I wish to share with my colleagues today relates to the 
testimony of General Jack Keane, who testified this morning before the 
Armed Services Committee.

General Keane was former Vice Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army. He is 
a paratrooper, a combat veteran, a student of the military for 37 
years, a four star general who has made four trips to Iraq in the last 
year, and he has made a number of suggestions and continues to be, in 
my opinion, one of the most respected observers of the Iraqi military 
situation we have in our country today.

In fact, I happened to be on ''The Charlie Rose Show'' with him and 
Senator Jack Reed last night. Reference was made that he was an adviser 
to Presidential candidate and Senate Member Hillary Clinton. He said 
that, in fact, he had provided advice to her, but he had provided 
advice to all three of the leading candidates still in the race and 
three of those who dropped out. His advice is widely sought. His 
criticism was real over a year ago when he felt the policies we were 
executing in Iraq were not good policies and not effective. He believed 
a change in policy was called for. To a significant degree, the surge, 
and even more importantly, the tactical changes that took place with 
the surge were suggestions that he had made. Of course, General 
Petraeus also executed them, and it represented General Petraeus's 
view, but General Keane did make a valuable contribution in the new 
policy we have undertaken.

Now, the American people are concerned about Iraq. They are rightly 
worried that we have a long-term commitment, and they wonder whether 
there is a good and decent government at the end of that commitment, 
whether it will be worth the effort we are putting forth, and whether 
we have a realistic chance of success in Iraq.

I have asked General Petraeus each and every time he has testified 
before me: Do you believe we have a realistic chance of success? He 
said that when he first went over there, when things were going badly 
and he knew he had to make some changes, he said: Yes, Senator. If I 
didn't believe I could be successful, I wouldn't go, I wouldn't take 
the job. Since then, he has twice reported based on his time there that 
he thinks we have a realistic chance of success.

What did General Keane say to us today? This very fine, highly 
respected professional military officer said this:




 The character of my visits to Iraq is to spend considerable 


 time with the Iraqi people, their Sheik and Tribal leaders, 


 as well as time with our U.S. military, Iraqi military, and 


 civilian leaders, and our troops.


That is a direct quote. I will continue to quote General Keane:




 First and foremost, we have the most talented and capable 


 leadership team in Iraq represented by General Petraeus and 


 Ambassador Crocker. Nothing in my 40 plus years in national 


 security compares to this extraordinary team who provide the 


 very best of leadership to their marvelous teammates and 


 troops.


He talks about the dramatic turnaround:




 The security turnaround in Iraq from the hell of 2006 and 3 


 years of failed strategy is one of the most stunning 


 achievements in the annals of counterinsurgency practice. It 


 was achieved in a matter of months versus the years it 


 normally takes to turn around one of the most formidable 


 insurgencies the West has ever faced. Fundamental to that 


 success was the use of proven counterinsurgency practice to 


 protect the people with sufficient amounts of Iraq and U.S. 


 troops. This was a catalyst--


He says--



 for the widespread Sunni awakening movement, which is truly 


 underappreciated here in the U.S. What really happened is the 


 Sheiks and Tribal leaders decided they could not achieve 


 their political objectives with al-Qaida Iraq in fighting the 


 United States and the government of Iraq. As such, the 


 overwhelming majority of Sunni leaders made four strategic 


 decisions to (1) stop the violence; (2) leverage the United 


 States leaders to influence the government of Iraq; (3) 


 reconcile with the government of Iraq; and (4) provide their 


 ''sons'' to work with us and the Iraqis to help defeat the 