---
---

# None
## `c8935ef1fe12cc172c25a816920d37ba`
`Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania. I want to thank my friend from Nebraska 
for his leadership here tonight and for his sharing time with us.

I personally believe that energy is the Number 1 issue facing 
America's economic future. I don't think, I think that available, 
affordable energy is a greater threat to the American economy than 
terrorism is. That's my personal view.

Before we talk about natural gas, I want to look at what we're using. 
Now, these are 2004 figures, but they've changed very little. It takes 
the Energy Department several years to compile them. These are the 
figures that we made the last chart out of a few months ago.

Currently 40 percent of our energy is petroleum. Just about 22.9 or 
23 percent is natural gas, and a similar figure is coal. Now that's 86 
percent.

Then you get down here to nuclear, 8.2, and now you're up to 94 
percent. So renewables are those figures on the left. And the largest, 
which surprises a lot of people, is biomass, which was 2.8, 
hydroelectric, 2.7, geothermal, 0.3, solar, 0.06, and wind, 0.01. Now, 
I think we need to look at that.

And then we look at the next chart, which is the Energy Department's 
estimates. Now, these are the people that deal with us every day. In 13 
years, in 2020, these figures don't change much, according to their 
statistics. Now, I hope they're wrong because the energy bills that are 
coming at us do not deal with petroleum, do not deal with natural gas, 
certainly do not deal with coal and do not deal with nuclear, which 
provides 94 percent. And I don't believe they deal with hydroelectric. 
That's another 3 percent. And so we have about 4 percent that's in 
play.

And I think what we have to be concerned about, if we focus on that 4 
percent, woody biomass, solar, wind, geothermal and hydrogen, can we 
take care of the needs of this country, because when you don't have 
emphasis on these, and you don't continue to drill new wells, and you 
don't continue to promote coal to liquids or coal to gas to furnish our 
mass amounts of energy needs, then these volumes go down, and that's 
where we've been at as a country.

We've had a policy not to produce American energy, oil, gas or coal. 
We are gaining 2 percent foreign dependence every year, so we're at 64 
percent. We've been gaining. Since I have been in Congress it's been 2 
percent a year, every year. And that's a trend that nobody thinks is 
appropriate or positive for America because it's foreign, unstable, 
often unfriendly countries with unstable governments.

Some new statistics that I'll just add to this that are a little 
concerning; 80-some percent of the oil and gas in the world is owned by 
countries that do not have democracies, unstable countries. They own 
the energy of the world. In fact, Exxon, our largest oil company, is 
14th in the world in ownership of energy. There are 13 countries that 
own, starting with Saudi Arabia and Russia and Iran and Iraq, and you 
can tell that's not exactly our friends, on down the road, all of those 
types of countries that own the energy of the world, and we are totally 
dependent.

Now, I'm pleased that the House and the Senate are both going to be 
dealing with an energy bill, but I think it's important that we have 
some energy production in those bills.

Now, the natural gas issue is one that has, I think, is really 
driving us economically in the wrong direction. We use 20 some percent 
of our natural gas now to make electricity. The gentleman from Nebraska 
just mentioned that his State doesn't do that, but the country does 
that. The States of California and Florida, the big users of energy in 
this country, consume huge amounts of electricity produced by natural 
gas, and that's an increasing figure daily.

About 12 or 13 years ago we took away the moratorium. It used to be 
just used for peaking plants in the morning and the evening because 
people felt natural gas was to precious to use to make electricity.

Natural gas is the feedstock for hydrogen, which the Representative 
from Nebraska talked about is one of our future fuels. We currently 
make it out of natural gas. Ethanol, the big push on ethanol consumes 
huge amounts of natural gas in the production of ethanol, so we don't 
make ethanol without consuming huge amounts of natural gas. The same 
with biodiesel. It's the feedstock.

Now, here's where the rubber meets the road in America. Natural gas 
is an ingredient in almost everything that's manufactured, or it's used 
in large amounts to heat, treat and bend products.

Petrochemicals, all the petrochemical companies, 55 percent of their 
cost of producing their chemicals because they use natural gas as an 
ingredient, they use it as a fuel is natural gas.

Polymers and plastics, 45 to 50 percent of their cost is natural gas 
because they use it as an ingredient and they use it as a fuel.

Fertilizer, from 50 to 70 percent of the cost of making fertilizer to 
grow the corn to make the ethanol is made by natural gas. In the last 2 
years, 50 percent of our fertilizer production has gone offshore.

Petrochemicals, polymers and plastics are moving offshore. Why? 
Because America has the highest natural gas prices in the world, and 
have had for 6 years. That was not true 6 years ago. South America, a 
buck and a quarter. Our average retail price last year was between 12 
and $13. Like I said, we have consistently, for 6 years, had the very 
highest natural gas prices in the world.

To show you, Dow Chemical uses huge amounts of natural gas. In 2002, 
they spent $8 billion to buy natural gas. In 2006, they spent $22 
billion, and of course those numbers just keep rising.

If we don't deal with the natural gas issue, America will not compete 
as a nation, because we use natural gas in producing almost all of our 
products, whether it's melting steel, melting aluminum.