---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `c8a12d76b9251059b90a3ee3c6d6c6a5`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank you very much and I thank 
the whip for allowing me to go at this time.

Let me just say I remember my Democrat colleagues after 9/11. They, 
along with us, were one voice saying we're going to go after these 
terrorists, no matter where they are; no matter how long it takes, 
we're going to get them.

The terrorists attacked the World Trade Center, the Cole, our 
barracks. They've attacked us many times. They attacked us once before 
at the World Trade Center. And al Qaeda has attacked in France, 
England, Spain, Indonesia, and elsewhere.

Now, the leader of the military wing of the terrorists in Iraq is al 
Qaeda. He's the guy that's going to lead the fight to make Iraq an 
Islamic State, a jumping-off point for terrorism around the world, al 
Qaeda, the same ones that attacked the World Trade Center and these 
other things.

I can't understand how my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, 
knowing al Qaeda is in charge over there, the military wing of the 
terrorists, knowing that they want to destroy us, knowing that Osama 
bin Laden said he wants to destroy America, that you want to pull out, 
that you want to tell them exactly when you're going to leave.

We're going to start moving in 4 months. We're going to be out of 
there in 12 months. You want to cut our troops off at the knees, and do 
you think al Qaeda is not going to be happy about that? What do you 
think Iran is thinking right now? What do you think Syria is thinking 
right now? What do you think al Qaeda is thinking right now? They're 
thinking we don't have the guts to go get 'em, and so they're 
encouraged.

Al Jazeera was mentioned just a minute ago. That paper has got all 
kinds of articles saying we're going to get out, and you guys are 
giving them all the information they need to know that they can prevail 
if they wait us out. If they do, we're going to have more terrorist 
attacks here in America. They're waiting for us to get out so they can 
focus all their attention on the United States and our allies.

We must not do this, and that's why we should sustain the President's 
veto.