# None
## `c8ae54a3cc2fb09c041f8ab2ca03f60f`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much.

I think it's important, and I kind of feel like a Baptist preacher on 
the first Sunday. You want to be able to make your point, and you want 
to be able to climax, but Mr. Ryan comes in and gets in the way, but 
it's okay. He has a good point. He's a great American.

I think it's important that we look at our responsibility right now 
and in the present for being able to stand up for those that have 
elected, woke up early one Tuesday for us, voting for representation, 
that we give voice to their cause and their need.

I think it's also important, especially as it relates to the 
diversity of our caucus, need it be Blue Dogs, need it be moderate, 
need it be to the left or whatever the case may be, it represents 
America.

I think the reason why Republicans voted for Democrats last time, 
Independents voted for Democrats last time, Democrats voted for 
Democrats last time is because they're looking for change. We're here 
to provide that kind of change, but we start looking at obstructionists 
here in Congress using procedural, using the rules of the House, using 
the rules of the Senate. The minority is protected in this process, 
standing in the schoolhouse door, if I may use that, of allowing us to 
stop from the report that we got today, November 13, or yesterday, 
November 13, total deaths in Iraq, 3,888; total numbers wounded in 
action and returned to duty, 15,832; total numbers wounded in action 
and not returning to duty, 12,829.



We pay attention to those numbers in the 30-something group because 
the American people are paying attention to those numbers, and I think 
it's very important, Mr. Speaker, that we continue to lift this issue 
up.

So as we look at what we are facing right now, Members, there's 
nothing wrong with us representing our districts and being able to 
bring dollars back because this is something that has not happened over 
the years. We have been borrowing the money to be able to continue the 
war in Iraq. We have been borrowing the money as it relates to going 
after Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan. We have been doing the things we 
need to do. But I think it's very important, Members, that we tell our 
story.

Today a very historic piece of legislation passed this floor when we 
look at the Energy Independence and Security Act. And I think we should 
not allow this day to pass without talking about the courage of 
Democrats and Republicans passing this bill.

I yield to Mr. Altmire.