---
---

# None
## `c8b23db9b1a1c2851ca792253f84ac22`
`Mr. OBEY — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. First of all, Madam Speaker, I will not take the full time, 
but I simply want to rise to thank the staff that has helped to put 
these bills together: Cheryl Smith, Sue Quantius, Nicole Kunko, Teri 
Bergman, Andria Oliver, Beth Chaney, Rob Nabors, David Reich, Kirstin 
Brost, Lesley Turner, John Daniel, Christina Hamilton, Steve Crane, 
Anne Marie Goldsmith, Ron Anderson, all the associate staff and the 
staff on both sides of the aisle.

I also want to express my appreciation to Mr. Walsh. He is a good man 
and I think he understands these issues very thoroughly.

Having said that, I would like to spend just a few moments to talk 
about what this debate is really about, because, so far, it has skirted 
around the edges.

The fact is that last November the public sent two messages to 
Washington. The first is that they wanted a change in Iraqi policy and 
the second is that they wanted a change in priorities here at home.

The President has decided to stiff the American public and reject 
both of those messages. First, what he is saying to the American people 
is forget what message you thought you were sending in the last 
election. I am the great decider and we are going to do things my way. 
That is what is happening here.

The President isn't just stiffing the Congress when he says that he 
will veto any appropriation bill that departs from his budget ceiling 
by one dollar. He is also stiffing the American people, who made it 
quite clear that they thought very little of his budget and foreign 
policy priorities.

Since that time, since the election, the President had said ''stay 
the course'' in Iraq, and in addition to the gargantuan defense budget 
that he has asked for, he is also asking for $200 billion in additional 
spending just to deal with the war that he started.



He is also saying stay the course when it comes to the $60 billion we 
are providing this year in tax cuts for people who make a million 
dollars a year. But at the same time, Madam Speaker, he is saying oh, 
tut, tut, tut, we cannot afford to invest here at home, so he sends the 
Congress a budget which cuts $16 billion out of education, out of 
health care, out of science, out of law enforcement and other critical 
domestic national priorities. And then he threatens to veto any 
appropriation bill that departs from his great wisdom.

Well, let's walk through where this bill would be and what it would 
look like tonight if we had followed the President's budget advice. If 
this bill did what the President wanted to do in his budget, it would 
be cutting vocational education by 50 percent. Is there anybody on 
either side of the aisle who is shortsighted enough to think that is a 
good idea?

If we had followed his instructions, we would have eliminated every 
student aid program on the books except Work-Study and Pell Grants.

In the area of handicapped education, there are a number of Members 
on the Republican side of the aisle who have made that their number one 
priority. They want to raise funds for special education. The President 
suggested we cut $300 million out of that program. Even the Republican 
Party objected in the House to that, and they raised the money that I 
had provided in the chairman's mark above the mark that we had 
provided, and we restored a significant amount of money to that 
program.

The President wanted us to cut mental health services by $100 
million. He wanted us to cut funds that teach medical personnel how to 
deal with illness in children's hospitals by 63 percent. The President 
wanted us to cut rural health programs by 54 percent. He wanted us to 
cut the Low-Income Heating Assistance Program by 18 percent. We have 
rejected those cuts, and this House on a bipartisan basis provided 53 
Republican votes for this bill as it left the House.

Now some people say this bill spends too much. This bill is a billion 
dollars less than it was when it left the House because we cut that in 
a concession to our minority party Members.

We have also in the bill respected a good many Republican priorities 
and respected a good many Republican initiatives, and in the process we 
have cut $1 billion.

Surely, surely at a time when we are spending $200 billion or close 
to it in Iraq, surely we can spend the equivalent of what we spend in 
Iraq in 6 weeks in order to meet high-priority domestic needs in the 
education, health, and job training areas.

Now our Republican friends cry newly found crocodile tears because we 
are also marrying this bill up with the military construction bill. 
Well, it seems to me if we can't agree on the advisability of the war, 
at least we ought to be able to agree how we feel about the warriors. 
And what we are doing in this bill is adding $3.5 billion for veterans 
health care. And we paid for it. We paid for it by making an identical 
reduction in the Defense appropriation bill, but that didn't suit the 
President. He said you have to pay for it again, and so he has issued 
this dictate that we pay for this increase in veterans health care 
twice by now going in and cutting other domestic programs by $3.5 
billion. And that is why we are marrying these two bills together, 
because we want the public to see what the specifics are. We want the 
public to see what the domestic priorities are that would have to be 
cut if the President wants us to double pay for the bill we have 
already paid for in increasing veterans health care by $3.5 billion.

Now the President says he is going to veto any bill we send him, and 
the House Republican leadership says they already have the votes to 
sustain any veto the President makes. So we have a choice. We can sit 
here like potted palms and do nothing and supinely roll over to the 
President's dictation; or we can try to make it as uncomfortable as 
possible for him to be irresponsible and unnecessarily confrontational. 
And that's what we are trying to do.

We are sending these bills to the Senate because it is the right 
thing to do. And as the gentleman from Texas points out, when the 
minority says that this is an unprecedented act, that is absolute 
nonsense, because they did the same thing four times themselves; nary a 
peep from anybody on that side of the aisle then.

I would simply make one last point. We have heard the slogan ''better 
late than never.'' Well, last year the Republicans decided rather than 
being late, they chose never. And they delivered not one dollar, not 
one dollar in additional expenditures for veterans health care, and it 
fell to us after they shut this Congress down and went home without 
appropriating a single dollar in veterans health care. It was left to 
us to fix that mess and to add over $3.5 billion in new funding for 
veterans. We did it last year. We are doing it again this year. We have 
made it our number one priority.

But that isn't what the boys and the girls on the other side of the 
aisle want to talk about. They want to obscure a few facts. And here 
they are:



In health care, the President cut funding for the primary Federal 
agencies responsible for increasing health care access in this country. 
This conference report rejects those cuts and provides $1.5 billion 
above the President's request to provide programs to improve health 
care access for the millions of Americans that don't have it. We do 
that at the cost of 5 days of what we spend in Iraq.

On education, the President cut funding for the Department of 
Education by $1.2 billion. This conference report rejects those cuts. 
We invest $4.5 billion above the President's request to the Department 
of Education, roughly the cost of 2 weeks in Iraq. And by doing that, 
we provide strong increases for Pell Grants, Head Start and various 
other education programs.

In job training, the President cut the largest job training in 
vocational education programs by $1.2 billion. This conference report 
rejects those cuts and invests $1.3 billion above the President's 
request, roughly the cost of 4 days of the war in Iraq.

In medical research, the President cut funding for medical research 
at the National Institutes of Health by $480 million. I have never had 
anybody in my life come to me and say, ''Obey, why don't you guys in 
Washington get together and cut cancer research.'' But that's what the 
previous Congress did in each of the last 2 years. They cut 1,100 
grants out of the National Institutes of Health with the complicity of 
this President. We are saying no way. Let's have an end to that 
nonsense. We reject those cuts. We invest $1.4 billion above the 
President's request, roughly the cost of 3 days of fighting in Iraq.

For economic development, in helping to alleviate poverty, the 
President slashed those programs by over a billion dollars. We rejected 
those cuts, costing roughly 4 days of what we spend in Iraq.

Lastly, the Low-Income Heating Assistance Program. The President 
comes from an oil State. He knows energy prices have skyrocketed, but 
he has cut LIHEAP by $380 million in his budget. We have rejected those 
cuts and invested $630 million more than the President's request, 
roughly the cost of 2 days of activity in Iraq.

So we are left with this. We are left with two arguments. We hear 
some of our Republican friends say we are going to vote ''no,'' we are 
going to vote against the Labor-Health-Education bill because we don't 
like the fact that the bill also contains the veterans funding. And we 
hear others say we are going to vote ''no'' on the Military 
Construction bill because we don't like the fact that it contains too 
much for education and health. Those are two beauties as reasons for 
voting against this bill.

I want to see whether the minority party Members of this House, I 
want to see whether they are going to be following the wishes of their 
constituents or whether they have their votes tied once again lock, 
stock and barrel to the President's desk. I want to see if they came 
here to represent their constituents or be another set of lemmings 
jumping off the cliff once again for this President. We will find out 
on that vote tonight. I hope we see the right vote.