---
---

# None
## `c8dff3a783f7280477b45e203bfa0871`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 3 December 2009`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 494 
as a cosponsor of this important resolution. It honors the 30th 
Infantry Division of World War II, which included National Guard 
soldiers from my state of North Carolina, as well as troops from 
Tennessee. The long history of the 30th Infantry goes back further, 
though, to include the service of individuals from across the South. 
Each time they were called to duty, they answered the call with 
distinction and bravery.

Their service during World War II was particularly exemplary, and I 
appreciate my colleague Congressman Kissell, whose father served in 
this division, for bringing forward a resolution to honor their valiant 
work. The achievements of the 30th Infantry Division were so exemplary 
that military historians of the day singled it out for distinction as 
the first among infantry divisions, noting both ''outstanding'' battle 
service and efficiency that preserved the lives of its members. 
Eisenhower's chief historian, S.L.A. Marshall, called the 30th the 
''most efficient fighting division in Europe.''

Although the 30th Infantry Division was not involved in the actual 
invasion of Normandy, it engaged in a pivotal battle in Mortain, France 
that contributed to the Allied victory at Normandy. Serving with 
bravery and distinction at St. Lo, France, the 30th enabled the Allies 
to outflank the German Army in what came to be called the St. Lo 
Breakout. The 30th was also instrumental in breaching the Siegfried 
Line in October 1944, and the capture of Aachen, Germany. In short, the 
30th Division, Old Hickory, played a significant part in our eventual 
victory over the Axis in WWII.

Today, North Carolina's National Guard soldiers serve with honor in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, bravely doing their part in defense of our 
Nation. As they do so, they are part of a valiant heritage that goes 
back to the founding of our Nation. Each time they are called to 
service, they do North Carolina and our Nation proud, as they are doing 
today.

North Carolinians are proud of the service and history of the 30th 
Infantry Division. We thank soldiers for safeguarding freedom and our 
way of life, in World War II and today in Afghanistan and Iraq. These 
courageous soldiers accomplished feats of heroism and bravery which 
preserved a way of life on two continents. They represent a proud 
fighting tradition and have earned every accolade we can give.

As a cosponsor of H. Res. 494, I strongly support this legislation, 
and I urge my colleagues to join me in honoring the soldiers that have 
and continue to protect our freedom.
