---
---

# None
## `c8e40d86977adc1169c69eb0894d2dd1`
`Mr. AKAKA — 21 December 2010`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise today and proudly stand among the 
long, bipartisan list of Senators, statesmen, and military leaders in 
support of the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty. The New START 
treaty is critical to our Nation's security because it places limits on 
U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals, supports an improving bilateral 
relationship with Russia, and advances international nuclear 
nonproliferation efforts.

Over the last three decades, both the United States and Russia have 
benefited greatly from the bilateral reduction of nuclear weapons. 
Through the efforts of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, 
the two superpowers embarked on gradual nuclear disarmament, agreeing 
to reduce the number of their strategic warheads and deployed delivery 
vehicles through the negotiation and signing of the first START treaty. 
Under President Obama's leadership, we are now considering the New 
START treaty, which, when ratified, will reduce these numbers even more 
in both countries.

The ratification of the New START treaty is vital to our national 
security.

First, this treaty helps to decrease the threat of nuclear 
destruction and strategic miscalculation by requiring the reduction of 
strategic offensive arms such as warheads and launchers in Russia and 
the U.S. Supporting this effort is a strong verification regime that 
includes on-site inspections. Without this treaty, our inspectors do 
not have the ability to monitor Russian activities. We have not had 
access to the Russian nuclear stockpile for over a year. Our ability to 
''trust, but verify'' must be restored.

Second, this treaty reinforces our important relationship with 
Russia. It advances our Nation's capacity to build durable, 
multilateral cooperation to confront international security risks from 
countries like Iran and North Korea. In addition, a strong relationship 
with Russia helps to keep available the supply chains that deliver 
equipment to the brave Americans serving in Afghanistan.

Finally, this treaty strengthens our nonproliferation efforts around 
the world. By ratifying the New START treaty and taking the focus off 
of strategic weapons, the United States and Russia can increase their 
efforts on tactical nuclear weapons and proliferation. The risks 
associated with nuclear proliferation are particularly serious and 
include acts of nuclear terrorism against the United States and its 
allies and the destabilizing effects of new nuclear arms races.

For many years I have been concerned about these risks. During the 
111th Congress, I have introduced bills that would decrease the spread 
of potentially dangerous nuclear technologies around the world and 
implement key nuclear nonproliferation recommendations offered by the 
Commission on the Prevention of the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass 
Destruction and Terrorism. I have also called for more oversight of the 
International Atomic Energy Agency's Technical Cooperation Program and 
its proliferation vulnerabilities. Ratifying the New START treaty will 
reinforce these and many other nuclear nonproliferation efforts.

I urge my colleagues to strengthen national security by ratifying the 
New START treaty.