---
---

# WALTER REED MEDICAL CENTER
## `c8f7d490efb3bb6579b60c51aee4fc7a`
`Mr. AL GREEN of Texas — 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. And I might add also, in terms of covering 
their backs when they come home, that these medical facilities, not 
just Walter Reed but others, are experiencing some concerns that we 
have to talk about as well, which can be a great segue into this 
Washington Post comment from March 5 of 2007.

This one reads that ''the mold, mice and rot of Walter Reed's 
Building 18 compose a familiar scenario of many soldiers back from Iraq 
or Afghanistan. Soldiers and veterans at other facilities report 
bureaucratic disarray similar to Walter Reed's indifferent, untrained 
staff, lost paperwork, medical appointments that drop from the 
computers, and long waits for consultations.''

Now that kind of treatment is something that cannot continue. The 
bricks and mortar, we have to deal with, and I believe we can deal with 
that. But we also have to make sure that the computers work. We have 
got to make sure that persons have adequate staffing available to them 
at hospitals so that they can receive the kind of attention that they 
merit and deserve.

This problem is systemic, as the gentlelady explained, and I think 
that we have to take a systemic approach to dealing with it. If we only 
focus on Walter Reed, then I think we miss something important, an 
opportunity to look at the entirety of what we are confronting and to 
take corrective action, not for one circumstance but for all 
circumstances that we find ourselves confronting at this time.

Let's not let any aspect of this escape. While we are dealing with 
it, let's deal with it in its entirety.

And I would yield to the gentlelady.