# JOBS FOR MAIN STREET ACT, 2010
## `c8ffcda23054c664bfc4177c7efb5291`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Madam Speaker, the assertion that the 
economic recovery bill, the stimulus bill, has created no jobs is, I 
must say, one of the least intellectually supportable statements I have 
heard on this House floor, and I've been here a long time. There's an 
argument about how much and how little, but no competent economist 
denies that it helped create jobs.

Here's where we are: The fact is that the Obama recovery from the 
Bush recession has been going more slowly than many of us would like, 
but it is undeniable by every statistic it is going forward.

Now, if you listen to my Republican colleagues, you learn that the 
third worst day in American history was January 21, 2009. The worst 
day, of course, was Pearl Harbor, and then we had the terrible mass 
murders of 2001. But to pick a day when there were no mass deaths, what 
was the worst day? January 21, 2009, because according to this debate, 
guess what happened on January 21, 2009? The Federal budget, which was 
apparently in surplus, all of a sudden punched into deficit. 
Unemployment suddenly appeared. The war in Afghanistan, by the way, was 
going wonderfully until January 21, 2009. There were no bailouts until 
January 21, 2009. Some of you may have thought they happened in 
September of last year, but, no, apparently it all started on January 
21, 2009.


And not only that--and I have to say I'm quoting my partner, Jim, 
here--it was one of the worst outbreaks of disease in American history. 
Mass amnesia seized the Republican Party on January 21, 2009. They 
forgot that the Bush recession started under President Bush in 2007, 
after they had controlled both the House and the Senate and the 
Presidency for the longest time. They forgot that the deficit had 
mushroomed under them. They forgot that trying to pay for two wars with 
five tax cuts was kind of a bad idea, and at least you shouldn't be 
surprised it resulted in a deficit.

So what we are now doing is trying to undo that. And adults 
understand that you cannot go from a terrible decline to rapid increase 
without passing through a transitional period. We are passing through 
it by every economic statistic.

Now, I agree the situation was worse than we thought, and it is 
getting better more slowly than we had hoped, but it is clearly getting 
better. And, again, if you listen to my Republican colleagues, the 
world began on January 21, 2009. I know some of them thought it started 
4,000 years ago, and they didn't believe in evolution. I didn't think 
they thought it all started when Barack Obama became President.

We do try here to help. I was astounded to hear the gentleman from 
Michigan say it hasn't created one job. Madam Speaker, tell that to the 
cops and firefighters in my district who were rehired because of this. 
Tell that to the people now working to clean up a Superfund site in my 
district which was funded by this bill. This denial of reality to evade 
responsibility for the dilemma we are in is breathtaking.

So I want to congratulate the gentleman from Wisconsin, who has been 
the most consistent advocate of social fairness and economic 
effectiveness that we've had, for a wonderful bill.