# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `c90421afd1fcd1846cd80fbf213908d0`
`Mr. ORTIZ — 24 June 2009`

---


Mr. ORTIZ. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

I rise in support of H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2010. The bill before us today reflects our 
committee's continuing efforts to reverse a decline in the readiness 
posture for Armed Forces.

I would like to thank the ranking member from my subcommittee, my 
good friend, Mr. Forbes of Virginia, for his help in bringing together 
this excellent bill.

The United States military is, without a doubt, the premier fighting 
force in the world. However, military leaders face significant 
challenges as they seek to fulfill the basic equipment and training 
needs.

H.R. 2647 is dedicated to providing the necessary resources and 
authorities to help reverse declining trends in training and equipment 
readiness. H.R. 2647 includes the following provisions to improve the 
overall state of the United States military readiness:

It provides $13 billion for reset of Army and Marine Corps equipment, 
deployment. It adds $762 million to fully sustain military base 
facilities and infrastructure, including Department of Defense schools.

It adds $450 million for Army barracks improvements and provides $440 
million to support National Guard and Reserve military construction 
programs. It adds $395 million to Navy depot maintenance accounts for 
ships and aircraft.

It authorizes $90 million for energy conservation projects and 
encourages use of renewable energy and hybrid and electric vehicles. It 
requires a GAO report on DOD's approach to balancing the dueling 
requirements of troops.

It includes a 1-year extension of premium pay for Federal civilian 
employees deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, and it provides $4.7 
billion for training opportunities for the Army.

This bill also does many good things for south Texas. It provides 
additional space for the Army Reserve to warehouse equipment in a 
controlled humidity environment in Robstown, Texas.

The bill also authorizes an energy demonstration project at Naval Air 
Station Kingsville that would reduce carbon emissions and provide a 
renewable source of free electricity.

I support this bill, H.R. 2647, and am proud of what this bill does 
to restore strength to our military.

My friends, this is a good bill that reflects our bipartisan desire 
to improve readiness and balance the many priorities of our Armed 
Forces.

I urge my colleagues and my friends to vote for this bill.