---
---

# RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION TAX ACT OF 2007
## `c90c3a17863355e623cd666d82f85a8e`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

This is really a defining moment for the Congress, Mr. Speaker, and 
how we vote will define whether we embrace the future or cling to the 
past that is destroying us.

Now, the last speaker talked about somehow, if we take back some of 
the obscene profits from the oil industry and use it to develop 
alternative energy and to invest in conservation measures around this 
country, that that will be the end of the Western World as we've known 
it. Between 2004 and 2006, oil companies experienced profit increases 
of an average of 62 percent, some of them as high as 117 percent. Now, 
oil profits, in the dictionary, that would be obscene, and anybody who 
thinks we're destroying the oil industry here simply is unwilling to 
look at the facts.

Supporting this energy legislation is really a vote to move toward 
our national security because our addiction to oil makes us vulnerable 
to foreign countries and keeps our soldiers fighting and dying in Iraq. 
No one here in this House still believes that oil wasn't a major reason 
why we went into Iraq.

Supporting this energy legislation is a vote to strengthen America's 
domestic economy because our addiction has made the American people 
vulnerable to punishing and unrelenting price shocks. We didn't start 
the increase in prices in energy. Gasoline prices weren't started in 
here by raising taxes. If you think that the oil companies, I don't 
know if there's anybody in this country who thinks that the Congress is 
what makes the oil prices go up, the gasoline prices.

Now, supporting this energy legislation is also a vote to save our 
planet,


because addiction to oil has placed us on a collision course with 
global warming. Every witness who came before the Ways and Means 
Committee, whether they were called by the Republicans or the 
Democrats, agreed that global warming is something we must deal with. 
The arguments I hear are not about whether there is global warming. The 
question is how should we deal with it how quickly, what's the best 
way.

Now, you either turn back now and we will face economic calamity and 
planetary catastrophe, that's a choice you guys can make, or turn back 
now and we fail the American people in our global responsibility.

The choice is very clear. The choice is really easy, and the need is 
urgent for our children, for our grandchildren, for the planet.

I ask all the Members to support this legislation.