---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `c925bcfc5f9db9717b7e70255e6a3955`
`Mr. WEBB — 9 July 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I wish to point out as of this point there 
are 29 cosponsors on this amendment. They include our majority leader 
as well as Senator Hagel as the lead Republican cosponsor, Senator 
Levin, the chair of our committee, Senators Obama, Clinton, Durbin, 
Tester, Byrd, McCaskill, Kennedy, Salazar, Kerry, Harkin, Feinstein, 
Schumer, Brown, Pryor, Sanders, Murray, Klobuchar, Boxer, Mikulski, 
Cantwell, Stabenow, Akaka, Dodd, Biden, and Landrieu.

This is an amendment that is focused squarely on supporting our 
troops who are fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. It speaks directly to 
their welfare and to the needs of their families by establishing 
minimum periods between deployments for both our regular and reserve 
components.

I offer this amendment having grown up as a military family member, 
having watched a father deployed, as one who has served as a marine and 
been deployed, as one who has had a family member deployed in this war, 
and also as someone who, for 3 years, was privileged to oversee our 
National Guard and Reserve programs as Assistant Secretary of Defense, 
during which time I also spent a good bit of energy looking at 
mobilization issues, including how manpower flow issues were predicted 
to have occurred if we went to war.

The manpower policies that are feeding the situations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan presently are unprecedented in our history. This not only 
involves the repeated use of a small pool of active Army and Marine 
Corps forces, it also regards the use of the National Guard and 
Reserves at a tempo that we never could have anticipated when we were 
designing the total force concept.

It also involves the use of contractors doing so-called security 
work, performing missions that historically have been the 
responsibility of American military men and women. Now in the fifth 
year of ground operations in Iraq, this deck of cards has come crashing 
down on the backs of our soldiers and marines who have been deployed 
again and again, while the rest of the country sits back and debates 
Iraq as an intellectual or emotional exercise.

These men and women are doing a wonderful job. They are also paying a 
heavy price. That price became clearer in a wide variety of statistics, 
which I will address momentarily, as well as in the personal stories 
that we who have positions of authority are hearing on a daily basis. I 
and other supporters of this amendment believe no matter what one's 
view is of America's involvement in Iraq, the time has come for the 
Congress to place reasonable restrictions on how America's finest, our 
military men and women, are being used.

Stated simply, after more than 4 years of ground operations in Iraq, 
we have reached the point where we can no longer allow the ever-
changing nature of this administration's operational policies to drive 
the way our troops are being deployed. In fact, the reverse is true. 
The availability of our troops should be the main determinant of how 
ground operations should be conducted.

Other amendments will be debated during the days ahead relating to 
the withdrawal of our forces from Iraq, the proposed timetables and 
future course of the war, but this is one area where we all, as 
Democrats and Republicans, should be able to come together. This 
relates in some measure to what the distinguished senior Senator from 
Virginia was talking about a few minutes ago--whether there is a report 
coming out in a week, whether there is an evaluation taking place in 
September. And no matter what any of us believe about the future 
conduct of the war or about this timetable or that timetable, we owe it 
to our troops and to their families to establish a minimum floor for 
their combat deployments.

If we are serious about supporting our troops, there is no better 
place to start than to correct the current troop rotation policy by 
requiring a minimum amount of time between deployments. I said this in 
the Chamber in March: The motivation behind this amendment is simple. 
It is the same motivation that impelled me more than 30 years ago when 
I first started working on veterans issues: How do we support the 
troops? What does that mean? Who speaks for the troops?

Like you, I listen to what they are saying. Here is what a 
constituent in Virginia wrote to me recently. Her husband is an Active-
Duty Infantry officer who is presently deployed in Iraq. She wrote:




 As an Army wife I brace myself for the possibility that he 


 may be extended for a few




 months based on the recent troop surge, and, of course, he 


 was. This morning on the news I heard that President Bush is 


 extending the Army troops again. Enough is enough.


She wrote.




 I am a patriotic American and an Army wife, but even we 


 have our limits. My husband has lost numerous soldiers, we 


 have dozens of amputees at Walter Reed and elsewhere, and 


 morale is dropping. These men need to come home. Please speak 


 out against another extension. Please bring our overextended 


 soldiers home.


After 4 years of combat, we must provide our troops and their 
families with a predictable operational tempo that has adequate dwell 
time between deployments. We owe this to our active participants but 
also to the participants in the National Guard and Reserves.

Why is this bipartisan amendment so important? We all know the reason 
well enough: a small group of people is answering the call time and 
again. The result is that our ground forces in particular are being 
burnt out. The evidence is everywhere. We see it in falling retentions 
of experienced midgrade officers and noncommissioned officers. The 
increasing attrition rate among Army company-grade officers is serious 
enough that our committee, the Senate Committee on Armed Services, 
included a reporting requirement on the Army's retention programs and 
incentives in the authorization bill that is now before us.

We see it in the West Point classes. In 2000 and 2001, the most 
recent classes that finished their initial 5-year obligations, we are 
told that their attrition is five times the level that it was before 
Iraq for such classes. The statistics we have been shown indicate that 
54 percent of the West Point class of 2000 left the Army by the end of 
last year, and 46 percent of the class of 2001 left the Army by the end 
of last year.


Senator Warner mentioned Admiral Mullen who is a longtime friend, a 
Naval Academy classmate, now waiting for confirmation as the next 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He was recently asked what was 
the thing about which he was most concerned. He said, ''The Army.'' And 
we are not talking about equipment. We are talking about the Army.

The Marine Corps is also seeing an upward trend in the loss of 
critical midgrade noncommissioned officers. We also find new evidence 
of troop burnout in more numerous mental health issues arising from 
multiple combat deployments. These are statistically observable. There 
is a new report by the Department of Defense that documents a higher 
rate of mental health issues for servicemen deploying multiple times or 
for more than 6 months. A survey of servicemembers after their 
deployments found that 38 percent of our soldiers, 31 percent of our 
marines, and 49 percent of the National Guard report psychological 
problems following their combat deployments.

The failure of current rotation policies to protect the welfare of 
our troops and their family members in both Regular and Reserve 
components is well documented. This is an example drawn from the pages 
of our servicemembers' own newspaper, the Stars and Stripes.

Last week, the paper described how Army SGT Troy Tweed, newly 
assigned to the 2nd Brigade of the 1st Armored Division, is slated to 
deploy to Iraq before a full year of dwell time at home. Sergeant Tweed 
returned home 5 months ago from his last deployment to Iraq. He is one 
of many former members of his old brigade who is slated to deploy 3 to 
4 months early because they received a new assignment. This will be 
Sergeant Tweed's fifth deployment to Iraq or Afghanistan.

He says to the Stars and Stripes:




 It feels like the individual situation of soldiers isn't 


 taken into account, you are just like a number.


The newspaper said it best.




 Soldiers like Tweed fall through the cracks.


Closer to home, the Virginia Army National Guard, roughly 1,400 
members of the 116th Infantry Brigade Combat Team, the famous Stonewall 
Brigade, has been mobilized. I would point out as an aside that this is 
a brigade with a long history that dates back to the Civil War, and, in 
fact, one of my ancestors fought in that brigade during the Civil War, 
was wounded at Antietam, and lost his life at Chancellorsville.

The brigade presently is in training in Mississippi and will deploy 
to Iraq in September. Deploying with this brigade are 700 members of 
the 3rd Battalion who returned only 2 years ago from a deployment in 
Afghanistan. Forty percent of this battalion will be making its second 
combat deployment in less than 3 years as members of the National 
Guard.

One colonel, a brigade commander stationed in Iraq, recently 
described his soldiers this way: They have spent the last 4 years on a 
continuous cycle of fighting, training, deploying, and fighting, and 
they see no end in sight. They have seen their closest friends killed 
and maimed, leaving young spouses and children as widows and single-
parent kids. They want time for themselves and time to raise families 
for a while.

When they look forward to a 15-month deployment with 12 months in 
between, they see their home station time as being compressed, with 
intensified training, which means more time away from families and 
personal pursuits.

I know my colleagues on both sides of the aisle have heard similar 
stories. I would just like to point out that this cycle, the strategy 
driving our troop rotation, must be reversed. The bipartisan amendment 
I introduced this afternoon takes a modest step to reverse this 
practice by establishing a floor for minimum periods between 
deployments for both units and members.

It says if a unit or member of a Regular component deploys to Iraq or 
Afghanistan, they will have the same time at home, dwell time, before 
they are deployed; for Guard and Reserves, they will have three times 
the amount of time that they were deployed.

This is not a grand scheme to achieve an ideal troop rotation 
scenario. The ideal rotation scenario is two to one for Active, and 
five to one for Guard and Reserves, which we put in this amendment as a 
goal. What we are attempting to do is to put a floor under this and 
state what would be optimal. I would point out that the Adjutant 
General of my State of Virginia, MG Robert Newman, told us today that 
it is important to consider alternatives like this, like a minimum 
dwell time that will provide this sort of predictability.

Active Army units now deploy for 15 months with a 12-month period 
between deployments. Many Active Marine Corps units are also below the 
one-to-one rotation cycle. Individual soldiers and marines who have 
recently returned from deployment are also reassigned as backfills to 
new units marked for deployment.

Dwell time is not downtime. It entails frequent absences as units 
retrain, refurbish, reequip, and assimilate new members. After the 
first month at home, for example, a marine generally spends 48 days in 
the field away from family, firing on the rifle range, or on weekend 
duty.

This amendment provides for fair and reasonable waivers. It gives the 
President the waiver authority in the event of an operational emergency 
that poses a vital threat to our national security. This is a low 
threshold. It will allow the President to respond to any emergency 
operational requirement, including those in Iraq and Afghanistan by 
certifying a need to waive the amendment's limitations.

It provides military departments the authority to waive individual 
volunteers. In other words, if you want to go back sooner you can.

Contrary to some critics, the amendment does not micromanage the 
President in his role as Commander in Chief, nor does it tie the hands 
of our operational commanders in theaters. A more predictable dwell 
time will be transparent to our forward-deployed commanders. Military 
departments have long experienced managing people as individuals. We 
fought the Vietnam war on an individual rotational policy, before the 
widespread use of today's information technology systems that make it 
far easier for us to monitor when an individual returned from a 
deployment so that you have a date certain for when his dwell time 
would expire.

There was some comment about constitutional authority. The 
constitutional authority of this amendment is clear. Article I, section 
8, of the Constitution empowers the Congress to make rules for the 
Government and regulations of the land and naval forces.



As Acting Secretary of Army Geren stated during his confirmation 
hearing last month:




 Article I of the Constitution makes Congress and the Army 


 full partners.


There are precedents for this action. Congress has acted in a similar 
way in the past. The best recent example was in 1961 during the height 
of the Korean war when Congress intervened to ensure our servicemembers 
were not sent to war before they were properly trained. The Selective 
Service Act was amended to provide that every person inducted into the 
Armed Forces would receive full and adequate training for a period not 
less than 4 months.

The law also stipulated that no personnel during this 120-day period 
would be assigned for duty outside the United States.

It could have been argued in the Korean war that we had manpower 
requirements that should have allowed the Department of Defense or the 
operational commanders or the President as Commander in Chief to send 
military people outside of the country before they had 120 days of 
training. But the Congress intervened and said: No; 120 days is 
essential for the well-being of our troops, just as this amendment 
today says that dwell time, time back home, is essential for the well-
being of our troops.

This Chamber has a clear duty to assert our authority to prevent 
further damage to our military. The current strategy, the current 
operational policy does not justify the way we are deploying our 
troops.


I urge my colleagues to recognize this common interest we share in 
addressing the welfare of our troops and their families. I have been 
encouraged to hear sentiments echoed recently by some of my colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle who are equally interested in forging a 
new road to the future, including Senators Lugar, Domenici, Voinovich, 
Collins, and even my senior colleague from Virginia, Senator Warner. 
They have studied the course of the war in Iraq. They ask the same 
questions that trouble us all: How can we continue to ask our troops to 
sacrifice indefinitely while the Iraqi Government is not making 
measurable progress, and many other questions.

The bottom line in all of this is that as we move forward responsibly 
to relocate our military from Iraq over a period of time, we cannot 
continue to do what we are doing to the troops we are sending over and 
over again. We seek a conclusion at the end of this engagement that 
will enable us to withdraw our combat forces from Iraq, that will lead 
to progressively greater regional stability, that will allow us to 
fight international terrorism more effectively, and that will enable us 
to more fully address our broader strategic visions around the world. 
The American people expect us to do that, to move our country forward 
in a collaborative way, but they also expect us to use our troops in a 
way that addresses their welfare and uses them in a way that is more 
properly related to the tasks at hand in Iraq and Afghanistan. So we 
can no longer continue to place such a disproportionately large burden 
on the shoulders of so few people. We need a balance. It is up to the 
Congress to establish that balance.

As a young Army wife wrote to me recently: Enough is enough.

I thank my colleagues who have signed on as original cosponsors, and 
I urge all colleagues to support the amendment.

I yield the floor.