---
---

# HONORING 139TH AIRLIFT WING
## `c926b2327d116f4a56f10421dfd06427`
`Mr. MARSHALL — 2 March 2010`

---


Mr. MARSHALL. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 699, 
recognizing the service and sacrifice of the members of the 139th 
Airlift Wing of the Air National Guard. I would like to thank my 
colleague, the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Graves), for bringing this 
resolution before the House.

Units of the Air National Guard play a critical role in America's 
wars and major contingencies as well as provide valuable assistance to 
their States in times of crisis. I'm extraordinarily proud of Georgia's 
Air National Guard and the 116th blended wing that's housed at Robins 
Air Force Base. The 139th Airlift Wing has roots in one of the 
federally recognized Air National Guard units in the United States, and 
it continues to be an important part of defense efforts at home and 
abroad.

The unit deployed in support Operation Enduring Freedom in 
Afghanistan and assisted in troop deployment during Operation Desert 
Storm. In the 1990s, the 139th supported humanitarian operations in 
Bosnia, Sarajevo, Africa, and Haiti. In addition to their efforts 
overseas, in 2005, they assisted with disaster relief efforts in 
response to Hurricane Katrina. Today, thousands of civilian and 
military personnel from northwest Missouri and northeast Kansas serve 
selflessly in the unit.

The 139th Airlift Wing provides essential support to maintenance and 
growth of the armed services. The unit is home to the Advanced Airlift 
Tactics Training Center that trains U.S. airlift crews and support 
personnel as well as NATO air forces in advanced tactics training.

House Resolution 699 recognizes the dedication and courage of not 
only the members of the 139th Airlift Wing and their families and 
service to the Nation, but also all of the members of the Armed Forces 
who have served or are currently serving in support of the United 
States military contingency operations. All our servicemembers and 
their families deserve our deepest gratitude and respect.

I urge my colleagues to join me in recognizing the exemplary service 
and sacrifices of the 139th Airlift Wing by supporting House Resolution 
699.

I reserve the balance of my time.