# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `c93615dbc19e1587241bf191585fed96`
`Mr. BISHOP of Georgia â€” 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I am very pleased to rise in 
strong support of the H.R. 3222, the Department of Defense and related 
agencies appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008.

As a member of Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I am extremely 
proud of the work of the Subcommittee and our members on both sides of 
the aisle, in crafting a bill which truly provides for the defense and 
security of our Nation, our friends and allies, and promotes, supports 
and preserves the mutual security interests of both our friends and 
allies around the world.

More importantly, I would remind all of us here this evening, that 
anyone inside, or outside our shores, or for that matter, hiding in the 
most obscure and remote cave, or under a rock for that matter, who 
might wish upon us, our citizens and friends--the slightest of ill will 
or harm--should be very clear that this bill also serves as a stark, 
ominous and indisputable reminder of this Congress's and our Nation's 
resolve and dedication to our absolute domestic and global security--
particularly in the face of those who would threaten the very rule of 
law, democratic ideals, and more importantly, the God-ordained 
principles of peaceful, fair, and progressive coexistence, among all 
God's children and nations.

It is important that our men and women who honorably serve in the 
defense of our Nation, have all the equipment, material and other 
resources they need to provide for the security of this Nation and our 
interests around the world.

Without question, the current war in Iraq and Afghanistan has placed 
a tremendous strain in this area, as well our potential ability to 
effectively respond to eminent security treats which may occur 
elsewhere throughout the world.

However, I firmly believe that our bill indeed goes far in meeting 
those needs and addressing any potential threats which might exist 
wherever they might arise.

More importantly, I, as well as my fellow Committee Members, are 
absolutely committed to providing our troops every dollar, dime and 
penny they need to defend our Nation and our interests--both here and 
abroad.

In this regard, our bill fully supports the Defense Department's 
plans to increase the size of the Army and Marine Corps to reduce the 
pressure to extend troop deployments.

Our bill will cover the costs of increasing the Army by 7,000 new 
members and the Marine Corps by 5,000 new members--including both the 
personnel costs and the associated equipment and outfitting costs. For 
the Army alone, the equipping costs amount to more than $4 million and, 
for the Marine Corps, the equipping costs amount to more than $2 
million.

Our bill also provides $925 million, $635 million above 2007, 
specifically to address equipment shortfalls of the National Guard and 
Reserve in order to help these forces meet the demands of overseas 
deployments and respond to natural disasters here at home. This amount 
meets the requirements identified by the Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau in the ''Essential 10 Equipment Requirements for the Global War 
on Terror.''

Additionally, our bill provides an overall increase of 13 percent for 
home-station training, so that our troops are prepared for any eventual 
deployment. It also outfits a new 8th Stryker Brigade of the highly 
successful troop carrier to support the Army's evolution to a larger, 
more rapidly deployable force.

But lest anyone of us here tonight forget no matter the short-term 
outcome of the current conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan--whether it 
ends in the next few months, or extends through next year or beyond--it 
''will end'' at some point, hopefully very soon.

And it is on this issue that I am particularly proud of the work of 
our Committee.

Ladies and gentlemen, not withstanding what we may individually 
believe to be our moral, national security or political interests in 
the war in Iraq and Afghanistan we need to meet and provide for the 
needs of our troops when they return home from the conflict in the 
Middle East.


And, I am very proud that the bill recommended by the Committee takes 
a proactive stance in addressing the needs of and improving the 
facilities which our men and women serving overseas will return to, and 
the resources provided to their families, both in the near and long 
term.

Mr. Chairman, our bill provides $558.4 million more than the 
President's request, for military family support, including childcare 
centers, education programs and the family advocacy program which 
supports military families affected by the war and child and spousal 
abuse.

Additionally, the bill contains $1.3 billion more than the 
President's request to repair barracks, improve child care facilities, 
and improve community services at military bases, to address the strain 
put on facilities by changes in force structure, base closures, and a 
global repositioning of our troops.

Our bill will significantly bolster base security, investing $141.9 
million above the President's request for perimeter security force 
protection and related security improvements, to protect DOD bases, 
schools, and hospitals from terrorist attacks.

I am very proud that Ft. Benning, the ''home'' of the Infantry, is 
located in my district. And I am particularly pleased that our bill 
places a very high priority on investing in vital facilities like Ft. 
Benning, in anticipation of our troops return from the war.

As a new member of the Appropriation's Subcommittee on Defense, I was 
struck by the Department's ongoing challenges in effectively managing 
its procurement activities, particularly in terms of contractor 
oversight, and our long term, multi-year plans, commitments and 
management in this area.

From 2000 to 2005, DOD contracting-out increased by 73 percent, but 
oversight has actually decreased.

I am very pleased that the Committee's report on the bill directs 
several steps to improve the oversight of contractors, including


the following: In order to improve the oversight of contractors, the 
bill increases the budget of certain critical DOD oversight agencies--
including providing an increase of $24 million for the DOD Inspector 
General, $17 million for the Defense Contract Management Agency, and 
$12 million for the Defense Contract Audit Agency. The bill also 
provides $21 million to permit the temporary assignment of 600 contract 
specialists from the General Services Administration to help DOD 
oversee contracts.

The Committee report requires the Secretary of Defense to develop 
minimum standards for all contractors performing security functions and 
to establish a clear set of rules of engagement for those operating in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, within 90 days of the bill's enactment.

The Committee report also requires a report that identifies: (1) DOD 
acquisition workforce needs; and (2) tools to recruit and retain these 
personnel in order to provide adequate management of contracts and 
oversight of contract performance.

Finally, I would like to congratulate my Chairman, Jack Murtha, and 
Ranking Member Bill Young, for the outstanding job they have done in 
stewarding and leading the important work of our Subcommittee.

And I would be remiss if I did not recognize and thank the staff of 
Subcommittee--David Morrison and his outstanding staff, as well as John 
Shank and the minority staff, in the outstanding work they do on behalf 
of this body and the Nation.

This is a good bill, and I urge my colleagues to support the FY08 
Defense Appropriations bill.