# HONORING ARMY SERGEANT JON M. SCHOOLCRAFT III
## `c93cd39e0fad29ec8a15a8eb576280c7`
`Mr. JORDAN of Ohio — 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. JORDAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and 
recognize the ultimate sacrifice of a brave Ohio soldier, Army Sergeant 
Jon Michael ''Mike'' Schoolcraft III.

Mike attended high school in Wapakoneta and went on to study auto 
body repair at the Apollo Career Center in Lima. Teachers, coaches, 
family members, and friends all described Mike as a remarkable, 
reliable, hardworking young man who excelled at every activity in which 
he was engaged.

In his time on this Earth, Mike had a positive impact on people in 
his life. When he decided to join the military shortly after the 
September 11 attacks, he touched the life of every American family that 
lived under the blanket of safety he helped provide.

Mike Schoolcraft died on Saturday, January 19, while serving America 
in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. In recognition of his valorous 
service, he was posthumously promoted to sergeant.

Mike is survived by his new wife, Amber, who lives in Hawaii. Mike's 
mother, Cynthia, along with many friends and loving family members, 
lives near his boyhood home. His father, Jon, lives in Indiana.

Mike stood up and volunteered to serve this great country. He fought 
to promote freedom. He gave his life in defense of his family, his 
community, his State and his Nation.

For this, each and every American owes him and his family a great 
debt of gratitude.
