# IN TRIBUTE TO REPRESENTATIVE JOHN P. MURTHA OF PENNSYLVANIA
## `c93e0ae89e066e0dbe33661a0dff27c6`
`Ms. McCOLLUM â€” 24 February 2010`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I and the following members rise in 
recognition of the late U.S. Representative John Murtha's lifelong 
dedication to members of our armed services: Representative Bruce 
Braley, Representative Tim Walz, Representative Keith Ellison, 
Representative James Oberstar, Representative Leonard Boswell, 
Representative David Loebsack, Representative Collin Peterson, and 
Representative Tom Latham.

Chairman John Murtha was a passionate legislator and decorated ex-
Marine who never stopped fighting for our men and women in uniform. In 
1974, Murtha, then an officer in the Marine Reserves, became the first 
Vietnam War combat veteran elected to the House of Representatives. As 
Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, 
Congressman Murtha was a tireless advocate for our troops, military 
families, and our veterans on Capitol Hill. At a time when we are 
mourning his passing, it is important to recognize Chairman Murtha's 
work to ensure that veterans receive support. The undersigned members 
would like to call attention to the work he did to secure the benefits 
promised and earned by 22,000 National Guard and Reserve personnel in 
our states.

In January of 2007, the Department of Defense authorized Post-
Deployment Mobilization Respite Absence (PDMRA) program, which provides 
additional pay when a soldier deploys more frequently than DOD policy 
requires. For the two years since the authorization of PDMRA, the 
Pentagon's implementation of the program has been slow and incomplete. 
As result, thousands of National Guard and Reserve members who have 
served multiple and extended tours in Iraq and Afghanistan did not 
receive the pay to which they are entitled. This problem has affected 
National Guard and Reserve personnel in every state across the nation. 
Members organized to bring attention to this problem and to find a 
resolution. The undersigned members have sent letters to the Pentagon, 
organized events, and met with armed services personnel for years and 
asked for the Chairman's assistance and leadership.

Chairman Murtha heard our request and took action. He made phone 
calls directly to Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Army Secretary 
Pete Geren. He included language to remedy the delay in the FY10 
Defense Appropriations bill, and in numerous letters to the Department 
of Defense since 2007 Congressman Murtha supported his colleagues in 
making it clear that further delay in resolving this issue was 
unacceptable to our members of the armed services. Because of the 
Chairman Murtha's support, the Department of Defense issued Army policy 
guidance for cash reimbursements for PDMRA for Reserve and National 
Guard personnel, which represents a crucial step in finally resolving 
this issue.

The late Congressman John Murtha has shown throughout his time in the 
military and in Congress that he is a dedicated leader on fighting on 
behalf of military families.