# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `c93f5816dc17085207a79a5ad0f681b9`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I 
commend the gentleman from Massachusetts for offering this important 
piece of legislation.



I voted against the war in Iraq, but I have since voted to give our 
troops the resources to succeed in their mission. They have done 
exceptional work. But they are now being asked to take sides in a civil 
war. This is not what we sent them to do, and it is time to bring our 
troops home.

Let us be clear. Removing our troops from the midst of a civil war 
does not mean we are abandoning Iraq. We will continue to train Iraqi 
security forces, support political reconciliation and economic 
reconstruction, and engage the international community to promote a 
lasting peace. Most importantly, we will continue to hunt down al Qaeda 
wherever they may hide. What we will not do is blindly follow the 
President's failed strategy, which has damaged our military without 
improving national security.

The situation on the ground has changed, and our plan should too. I 
urge my colleagues to support this legislation to demand a new 
direction and end the conflict in Iraq and bring our troops home.

I thank the gentleman for offering this important piece of 
legislation.

Mr. Speaker, this measure will allow us to begin redeploying our 
combat forces in Iraq and pursuing a new strategy for success. I voted 
against giving the President authority to go to war, but I have since 
voted to give our troops the resources to succeed in their mission. 
They have done exceptional work, but they are now being asked to take 
sides in a civil war--resolving conflicts that stretch back for 
centuries. That is not what we sent them to do, and it is time to bring 
them home.

Let us be very clear about what this bill does, because there is a 
lot of rhetoric clouding this debate. Removing our troops from the 
middle of a civil war does NOT mean we're abandoning Iraq. We will 
continue to train the Iraqi Security Forces. We will continue to 
support political reconciliation and economic reconstruction. We will 
continue to engage the international community to promote a lasting 
peace. Most importantly, we will continue to hunt down al Qaeda 
wherever in the world they may try to hide. What we will not do is 
blindly follow the President's failed strategy--a strategy that has 
damaged the readiness of our military without improving our national 
security. The situation on the ground has changed, and our plan should 
be adjusted accordingly. Sadly, the President has decided to trust his 
own judgment over that of our military commanders, millions of Iraqis, 
and, most importantly, the American people. I urge my colleagues to 
support this legislation to demand a new direction that strengthens our 
military and ends the conflict in Iraq.