---
---

# ANNIVERSARY OF AMERICA'S WAR ON TERROR
## `c94adf29c47a4d9860964e06463fe2b0`
`Mr. DeMINT — 11 September 2009`

---


Mr. DeMINT. Mr. President, today marks the eighth anniversary of 
America's war on terror--the day we began to fight back. But 9/11 was 
not the day the war began. Radical Islamic terrorists were at war with 
the United States long before that harrowing morning 8 years ago. That 
is crucial to remember now as the terror and tragedy of that day 
recedes into the past.

This war did not begin with the 9/11 attacks or when we sent troops 
to Afghanistan and it will not end when we defeat terrorists on any 
battlefield. Our goal cannot be merely to end one war but to win the 
war on terror. We will not win by trying to appease the grievances of 
our enemies. They do not hate our policies--they hate us, our freedoms, 
and our way of life.

The 3,000 on 9/11 were the consequence of a broad bipartisan failure 
of American leadership to understand that hate. The consequences of 
forgetting now will be far worse. Our enemies' strategy is based on 
what they see as our short memory. As the terrifying images of 9/11 
fade, our enemies believe we will lose our nerve and retreat back into 
the false sense of security they exploited with those four jetliners on 
9/11.

We cannot let that happen. If we lose our resolve and surrender our 
vigilance, the next attack might not be in airplanes but something far 
more devastating and lethal. Their plan depends on us forgetting, and 
so our challenge is to never forget.

We have sacrificed in blood and treasure. Thousands of families have 
lost what can never be replaced. From the men of Flight 93 to the 
mountains of Afghanistan to the sands of Iraq, heroes have fallen. 
Today we mourn their loss, honor their memory, and recommit to finish 
the work they began, not just in foreign theaters of war but here at 
home. The challenge of 9/11 is not just to win a war but to prevent the 
next one. We will do that by remembering that our enemies are still 
hating and still planning. We must never forget.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.