# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `c95871025fc115688a46d96064da3c5d`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Chairman Lantos for 
the time and Chairman Skelton for bringing this important resolution to 
the House floor.

Mr. Speaker, the American people have called for bold action to bring 
our troops home, and today we are debating a first step, setting a date 
certain to bring them home.

Over the next weeks, we will vote to prohibit permanent bases in 
Iraq. We will continue the drumbeat to fund the safe and complete 
withdrawal of our troops.

But, Mr. Speaker, despite calls--no, actually pleas--from the 
American people, some at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue and many 
right here in the House are just fine with staying the course. In fact, 
they are once again changing the conversation. They are trying to focus 
on gut feelings about an upcoming terrorist attack. But the American 
people will not stand for changing the conversation, and they will not 
stand for staying the course, nor should we in this Congress.

The costs are just too high: $10 billion a month, and worst of all, 
the deadliest 3-month period since the escalation; 3,600 troops dead; 
at least 26,000 wounded; and tens of thousands of Iraqi refugees 
leaving Iraq every day. This is not only unacceptable; it is immoral.

Today, the Congress must take a bold step to bring our troops home. 
We must stand up today with the American people. We must say, enough is 
enough. End the occupation, bring our troops home.