---
---

# None
## `c959f0a0317bf292edc84564f92562ea`
`Mr. WITTMAN of Virginia — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. WITTMAN of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Resolution 961, which 
commends the Alaska Army National Guard for its service to the State of 
Alaska and the citizens of the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I am honored to pay tribute to the 586 courageous 
members of the Alaska Army National Guard's 3rd Battalion, 297th 
Infantry who recently returned from their year-long deployment in 
southern Iraq and Kuwait. These brave men and women, representing 80 
different communities across Alaska, successfully served as security 
forces in northern Kuwait and southern Iraq, guarding camps and convoys 
heading into Iraq since October, 2006.

Alaska's sons and daughters were joined by National Guardsmen from 
New York, Mississippi, Illinois, Georgia and Puerto Rico as they 
inspected and searched over 30,000 semi-trucks during their 12 months 
in Kuwait and Iraq.

Thankfully, Mr. Speaker, all the members of this outstanding unit 
returned home safely, but not before distinguishing themselves by 
earning three Bronze Stars, 12 Meritorious Service Awards, 142 Army 
commendations, and more than 200 Army Achievement Medals for their 
outstanding service.

Mr. Speaker, not since World War II has the Alaska National Guard had 
so many of its members deployed. I would be remiss, Mr. Speaker, if I 
did not also pay tribute today to the incredible families of these 
brave soldiers who waited at home while their loved ones answered our 
Nation's call. The families of 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry also 
serve, and they deserve our sincerest appreciation and thanks.

Alaska and the entire Nation owe the members of the Alaska Army 
National Guard's 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry a debt of gratitude. We 
are all so proud of their service. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I strongly 
urge all Members to support this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, at this time, I yield to the gentleman from Alaska (Mr. 
Young) such time as he might need.

(Mr. YOUNG of Alaska asked and was given permission to revise and 
extend his remarks.)