# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `c96c8a21bedb6daf226ae36c3b86f7a1`
`Mr. OBEY — 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. You know, Mr. Chairman, we've had a game going on in this 
Capitol for the last 6 years. It's called ''Shift the Shaft,'' and 
nowhere is it more clear than in what has happened with law enforcement 
funding.

As I said yesterday, we've had a Kabuki dance going on in this 
Congress for years. What happens is each year the President comes up 
with a budget. He's looking for things he can squeeze out of the budget 
to make room for tax cuts for millionaires. And so what does he do? He 
cuts the guts out of our assistance to local law enforcement, and then 
we wonder why the crime rate has gone up the last 2 years. He cuts the 
guts out of law enforcement, and then each year the previously 
Republican-controlled Congress comes in, they restore about one-third 
of those cuts, they say, oh, what good boys are we. Look at what we've 
done to help law enforcement. And at the end of that time, we're $1.5 
billion below where we were in 2001 in terms of our assistance to local 
law enforcement. Now, maybe that makes sense to some folks; it doesn't 
make sense to me, not with the explosion of meth problems all over the 
country, not with the explosion of drug problems.

The prior Speaker of the House had a big thing about going after drug 
production in Colombia. We're spending hundreds and millions of dollars 
in Colombia, but we're not spending nearly enough money here at home to 
reduce the demand for those same drugs that are being produced in 
Colombia, and this amendment would cut that further.

The same crowd talking is the crowd that didn't mind providing $600 
billion in borrowed money in order to finance that misbegotten war in 
Iraq. It's the same crowd that is willing to provide $57 billion in tax 
cuts to millionaires this year, paid for with borrowed money. But then 
they divert the public's attention from the cause of those on-the-cuff 
expenditures by saying, oh, we're going to focus a 1 or a 2 percent cut 
on law enforcement, a 1 or 2 percent cut on the National Science 
Foundation so we can get people to think that that's the problem that's 
causing the deficit and not our profligacy for the last 2 years.

Now our friends on the Republican side of the aisle say, oh, we've 
got this terrible tax cut coming in the farm bill. Baloney. What we're 
trying to do in the farm bill is to increase support for domestic 
nutrition programs so that, in addition to having 44 million people in 
this country who are walking around without health insurance, we don't 
also have a lot more kids walking around who are hungry. And we're 
talking about paying for that not by raising taxes on middle-class 
Americans, but by closing the loopholes on offshore foreign 
corporations.

Now, I'm not at all surprised that the Republican leadership cannot 
tell the difference between closing tax loopholes on special interests 
and raising taxes on the middle class. The difference is that on this 
side of the aisle we can, and that's why we're voting against your 
amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.