# OUT-OF-CONTROL SPENDING
## `c96f9d7a68cb6de4bdc8f75dde3cfef2`
`Mr. AKIN â€” 10 March 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Well, thank you, gentlelady. It's a treat to be able to 
join you this afternoon on the topic that I think arrests the attention 
of Americans everywhere, the state of our economy, and what should and 
could the government be doing about it?

If we just back up a small amount and try to frame the question, we 
go back to a time, a number of years ago, when there were created these 
Freddie and Fannie quasi corporate entities. And what happened was, 
under President Clinton what happened was that they decided they were 
going to increase the number of loans that were going to be made to 
people who couldn't afford to pay their loans--which is a little bit of 
a risky thing. And so we created these entities and we issued a whole 
bunch of loans to people.

And while the real estate market was doing well, it looked okay on 
the surface. And then, as everybody knows, what happened was the real 
estate bubble popped, and now all of a sudden you


have this socialistic kind of policy that was implemented by the 
Democrats that was supposedly to help people with loans, and now the 
whole thing is collapsing and people say, well, this is a failure of 
free enterprise. It's not. It's a failure of another one of these 
government programs that's trying to take two plus two and get eight 
out of it. So that's essentially what happened.

If you want to take a look at the New York Times, you can look at 
September 11, 2003. And you can see what happened in 2003, and that was 
the President, President Bush at that time, was saying, hey, we've got 
problems with Freddie and Fannie, you've got to give me authority to 
regulate these guys. And a Member of the House here, Congressman Frank, 
said there's no trouble with Freddie and Fannie. A couple of years 
later it turned out he was radically wrong, and now the whole world is 
in an economic tailspin because we had these loan programs. Well, 
that's where we are.

So the question then becomes, what should we do? Well, obviously we 
shouldn't keep making loans to people who can't afford to pay them. But 
the other thing that you know in a recession is this; you don't want 
the government spending too much money. Well, why would that be? Well, 
because there is an effect that goes on. When the government spends too 
much money, it's like a big vacuum, it sucks that liquidity out of the 
regular private sector. And the private sector are the very ones that 
have to fix the problem.

To get the economy going, you've got to get the private sector going. 
The government can do anything it wants, it can do handsprings and all 
this sort of stuff, but the government makes no wealth whatsoever, all 
it does is spend wealth. It can print money, it can tax people, it can 
spend money, but it doesn't create prosperity, it doesn't create 
efficiencies. It simply can hamper the process.

So what's going on here? You've got two basic theories about what you 
do in a recession. One of them was started by FDR. And he had a guy, 
this fellow here that I have a quote, his name was Morgenthau. 
Morgenthau was Secretary of Treasury under FDR--and this is the first 
theory of what to do. And Morgenthau's idea was, we're going to spend a 
whole lot of money to stimulate the economy, and that will make 
everything better--because we're starting to enter into a recession 
back in the 1930s. And so Morgenthau, along with this Little Lord 
Keynes--who was a little weird--came up with this idea that they were 
going to spend a whole lot of money. And so they did it. And here at 
1939, after he's done this for 8 years, Morgenthau meets with the Ways 
and Means Committee, and he takes a look and says, we've tried spending 
money. We've spent more than we've ever spent before, and it doesn't 
work. I say after 8 years of the administration, we have just as much 
unemployment as when we started, and enormous debt to boot. So that's 
one theory. The theory is--and this is one that the liberals have 
always liked because they love to spend money--is if you spend enough 
money, you can get out of trouble.


It's a little bit like if I were to tell those of you here today, 
reach down, grab your shoe laces and lift hard and fly around the House 
Chamber. That's what this is like doing. And, you know, there isn't 
hardly an American family I can think of that's dumb enough to support 
this idea, and Morgenthau finally figured it out in 1939. There's not 
an American family that would say, when you're in economic trouble, go 
buy a brand new car, spend money like mad because maybe things will be 
better the next day. We just know intuitively, when you get in trouble, 
you've got to hunker down a little bit. That's what you do in Missouri, 
you've got to hunker down and use a little common sense. So this theory 
doesn't work.

Now, what's the other approach? What do you do when you have a 
recession? Can the government do anything? Well, it can. What it should 
be doing is not spending so much money, which is the topic of the 
congresswoman's discussion this afternoon. We're doing the wrong thing, 
we're spending too much money. The reason that that doesn't work is it 
pulls money out of the basic, particularly out of the places in the 
economy that need to have money in order to create jobs and 
productivity.

So, you see, jobs here, they had a big problem with unemployment. 
Eight years of government spending, they still had a big problem with 
unemployment. Now, what we've done is spent money like mad in the last 
couple of months, and people say, I'm not sure it's going to work. The 
stock market is saying, I don't think that's going to work. And history 
says, I don't think that's going to work. And the Japanese tried it and 
they say, that didn't work for us. You don't want to go spending a 
whole lot of money when you're in trouble.

What do you want to do? Well, here's what you want to do. You want to 
make sure particularly that the small business people have enough 
liquidity to get their companies going. And so what you want is 
policies that are going to keep money in small businesses so they will 
invest because 80 percent of the jobs are in small business. You've got 
unemployment? You want small businesses going like mad to create more 
jobs.

And so how do you do that? You let the small businessman keep money 
so that he can plow it back into the business, create the jobs that 
create the productivity. You need people who are entrepreneurs and who 
are inventors and investors. You want those people with the liquidity 
to be able to get the economy jump-started. And that means the 
government has got to stop spending money.

Well, what way are we spending money? Wow, we're really spending 
money. This last thing that they called the stimulus package--I call it 
the porkulous package--I'm on Armed Services, we deal with things like 
military things. And one of the biggest, most expensive things in our 
budget is called an aircraft carrier. We have ships surround them to 
protect them. We've got 11 of them. They're really expensive and 
they're really big, and we protect them because 11 of them are very 
valuable. And they cost about $3 billion apiece.

So what we passed in the House, do you know how many aircraft 
carriers you could buy for the money we borrowed that our kids and 
grandchildren have to pay back? You could make 250 aircraft carriers. 
Can you picture 250 aircraft carriers in a row? That's an incredible 
number. Or if you want to look at it a different way, you've heard us 
complain, you've heard the media complain about how big the spending 
was in the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. Add the spending in Iraq and 
Afghanistan together totally for both wars, add it up. Well, we spent 
more than that in the first 5 weeks we were here in Congress this year. 
That's a lot of spending.

And now here we've got, on top of that, here's the President's tax 
increases for 2010. And what exactly does this big tax policy do? One, 
this is cap and trade. What this is is global warming, which means your 
electricity and your power is going to be more expensive. Guess who 
uses that? Small businesses. This is going to be hammering not only to 
small people, not people making a lot of money, the little guys. You 
have to pay an electric bill? You're going to get hit with this tax. 
This bit about this is just for rich people is baloney. If you have an 
electric bill, you're going to pay this tax.

And this one over here is on small business. Both of these things 
affect small business. This is exactly the wrong thing to be doing. Tax 
increases is not what we should be doing. We should be going in the 
opposite; we should leave the money in the small businessman's pocket 
to create the jobs.

And the gentlelady, Congresswoman Bachmann, I really appreciate you 
taking some time to talk about the economics because this is on the 
minds and hearts of Americans. I appreciate your sharing a little bit 
of your time on the floor with me.

I see you have some other distinguished colleagues here that are very 
qualified to talk on this subject, so I don't want to rattle on too 
long. But I thank you very much for giving me a few minutes.