---
---

# None
## `c97ade12a564beeb432f5bb71e25491d`
`Ms. LEE — 21 June 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Chairman, while I understand that the Chairwoman is 
prepared to accept it, this amendment causes me great concern.

Given Mr. King's history in opposition to the underlying provision, I 
believe that this amendment is nothing more than a backdoor attempt to 
leaving U.S. troops in Iraq long-term.

The bottom line is, Mr. Chairman, when our troops come home, they 
should all come home.

And three times, twice in 2006 and once this year Congress passed--
and the President signed into law--legislation prohibiting permanent 
military bases in Iraq.

The prospect of having long-term military bases would send the wrong 
message to our troops, the Iraqi people, and the world.

The prospect of an indefinite occupation fuels the insurgency by 
serving as a recruiting tool for insurgents and places targets on the 
backs of our troops.

The Iraq Study Group has recognized the importance of unequivocally 
declaring that we have no intention of remaining in Iraq permanently.

Key administration officials, including Secretary Gates have 
pronounced that we are not


going to establish permanent military bases in Iraq.

Even President Bush has declared that we 'do not support an 
indefinite occupation' in Iraq.

Again, Mr. Chairman, I wish this were a genuine attempt to prohibit 
an indefinite occupation in Iraq.

I'm concerned that it is not.












 prohibition on use of torture




 Sec. 686. None of the funds made available in this Act 


 shall be used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the 


 use of torture by any official or contract employee of the 


 United States Government.












report on indonesian cooperation




 Sec. 687. Funds available under the heading ''INTERNATIONAL 


 MILITARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING'' may only be made available 


 for assistance for Indonesia if the Secretary of State 


 submits a report to the Committees on Appropriations that 


 describes--



 (1) Steps taken by the Indonesian government to deny 


 promotion to and to remove from service military officers 


 indicted for serious crimes; the extent to which the 


 Indonesian Government is cooperating with international 


 efforts to bring current and past officials to justice; and 


 that past and present Indonesian military officials are 


 cooperating with domestic inquiries into past abuses, 


 including the forced disappearance and killing of student 


 activists in 1998 and 1999;



 (2) The Indonesian government's response to the report of 


 the Commission for Reception, Truth and Reconciliation in 


 Timor-Leste and the June 2006 report of the report to the 


 Secretary-General of the Commission of Experts to Review the 


 Prosecution of Serious Violations of Human Rights in Timor-


 Leste in 1999;



 (3) Steps taken by the Indonesian government to implement 


 and enforce the 2004 Indonesian law which requires the 


 Indonesian military to divest itself of legal and illegal 


 businesses before 2009; and



 (4) The extent to which the Indonesian government has 


 removed restrictions impending access to and travel within 


 the provinces of Papua and West Irian Jaya by United Nations 


 personnel, diplomats, journalists, international non-


 governmental organization personnel and researchers, 


 humanitarian and human rights workers and others.


limitation on assistance to foreign countries that refuse to extradite 

to the united states any individual accused in the united states of 









 killing a law enforcement officer




 Sec. 688. None of the funds made available in this Act for 


 the Department of State may be used to provide assistance to 


 the central government of a country which has notified the 


 Department of State of its refusal to extradite to the United 


 States any individual indicted in the United States for 


 killing a law enforcement officer, as specified in a United 


 States extradition request.





governments that have failed to permit certain extraditions




 Sec. 689. None of the funds made available in this Act for 


 the Department of State, other than funds provided under the 


 heading ''INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL AND LAW 


 ENFORCEMENT'', may be used to provide assistance to the 


 central government of a country with which the United States 


 has an extradition treaty and which government has notified 


 the Department of State of its refusal to extradite to the 


 United States any individual charged with a criminal offense 


 for which the maximum penalty is life imprisonment without 


 the possibility of parole.






 international monetary fund budget and hiring ceilings




 Sec. 690. The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 


 United States Executive Director at the International 


 Monetary Fund to use the voice of the United States to ensure 


 that any loan, project, agreement, memorandum, instrument, 


 plan or other program of the International Monetary Fund does 


 not penalize countries for increased government spending on 


 healthcare or education by exempting such increases from 


 national budget caps or restraints, hiring or wage bill 


 ceilings or other limits imposed by the International 


 Monetary Fund.















environment programs




 Sec. 691. (a) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated under the 


 heading ''DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE'', not less than 


 $501,000,000 shall be made available for programs and 


 activities which directly protect biodiversity and promote 


 clean energy.



 (b) Climate Change Report.--Not later than 60 days after 


 the date on which the President's fiscal year 2009 budget 


 request is submitted to Congress, the President shall submit 


 a report to the Committees on Appropriations describing in 


 detail the following--



 (1) all Federal agency obligations and expenditures, 


 domestic and international, for climate change programs and 


 activities in fiscal year 2009, including an accounting of 


 expenditures by agency with each agency identifying climate 


 change activities and associated costs by line item as 


 presented in the President's Budget Appendix; and



 (2) all fiscal year 2007 obligations and estimated 


 expenditures, fiscal year 2008 estimated expenditures and 


 estimated obligations, and fiscal year 2009 requested funds 


 by the United States Agency for International Development, by 


 country and central program, for each of the following:



 (A) to promote the transfer and deployment of a wide range 


 of United States clean energy and energy efficiency 


 technologies;



 (B) to assist in the measurement, monitoring, reporting, 


 verification, and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions;



 (C) to promote carbon capture and sequestration measures;



 (D) to help meet such countries' responsibilities under the 


 Framework Convention on Climate Change; and



 (E) to develop assessments of the vulnerability to impacts 


 of climate change and mitigation and adaptation response 


 strategies.



 (c) Extraction of Natural Resources.--(1) The Secretary of 


 the Treasury shall inform the managements of the 


 international financial institutions and the public that it 


 is the policy of the United States that any assistance by 


 such institutions (including but not limited to any loan, 


 credit, grant, or guarantee) for the extraction and export of 


 oil, gas, coal, timber, or other natural resource should not 


 be provided unless the government of the country has in place 


 or is taking the necessary steps to establish functioning 


 systems for:



 (A) accurately accounting for revenues and expenditures in 


 connection with the extraction and export of the type of 


 natural resource to be extracted or exported;



 (B) the independent auditing of such accounts and the 


 widespread public dissemination of the audits; and



 (C) verifying government receipts against company payments 


 including widespread dissemination of such payment 


 information, and disclosing such documents as Host Government 


 Agreements, Concession Agreements, and bidding documents, 


 allowing in any such dissemination or disclosure for the 


 redaction of, or exceptions for, information that is 


 commercially proprietary or that would create competitive 


 disadvantage.



 (2) Not later than 180 days after the enactment of this 


 Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a report to 


 the Committees on Appropriations describing, for each 


 international financial institution, the amount and type of 


 assistance provided, by country, for the extraction and 


 export of oil, gas, coal, timber, or other national resource 


 since September 30, 2005.

















 uzbekistan




 Sec. 692. Assistance may be provided to the central 


 Government of Uzbekistan only if the Secretary of State 


 determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 


 that the Government of Uzbekistan is making substantial and 


 continuing progress in meeting its commitments under the 


 ''Declaration on the Strategic Partnership and Cooperation 


 Framework Between the Republic of Uzbekistan and the United 


 States of America'', including respect for human rights, 


 establishing a genuine multi-party system, and ensuring free 


 and fair elections, freedom of expression, and the 


 independence of the media, and that a credible international 


 investigation of the May 31, 2005, shootings in Andijan is 


 underway with the support of the Government of Uzbekistan: 


 Provided, That for the purposes of this section 


 ''assistance'' shall include excess defense articles.




discrimination against minority religious faiths in the russian 















 federation




 Sec. 693. None of the funds appropriated for assistance 


 under this Act may be made available for the Government of 


 the Russian Federation, after 180 days from the date of the 


 enactment of this Act, unless the President determines and 


 certifies in writing to the Committees on Appropriations that 


 the Government of the Russian Federation has implemented no 


 statute, executive order, regulation or similar government 


 action that would discriminate, or which has as its principal 


 effect discrimination, against religious groups or religious 


 communities in the Russian Federation in violation of 


 accepted international agreements on human rights and 


 religious freedoms to which the Russian Federation is a 


 party.















war crimes in africa




 Sec. 694. (a) The Congress reaffirms its support for the 


 efforts of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda 


 (ICTR) and the Special Court for Sierra Leone (SCSL) to bring 


 to justice individuals responsible for war crimes and crimes 


 against humanity in a timely manner.



 (b) Funds appropriated by this Act, including funds for 


 debt restructuring, may be made available for assistance to 


 the central government of a country in which individuals 


 indicted by ICTR and SCSL are credibly alleged to be living, 


 if the Secretary of State determines and reports to the 


 Committees on Appropriations that such government is 


 cooperating with ICTR and SCSL, including the surrender and 


 transfer of indictees in a timely manner: Provided, That this 


 subsection shall not apply to assistance provided under 


 section 551 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or to 


 project assistance under title II of this Act: Provided 


 further, That the United States shall use its voice and vote 


 in the United Nations Security Council to fully support 


 efforts by ICTR and SCSL to bring to justice individuals 


 indicted by such tribunals in a timely manner.



 (c) The prohibition in subsection (b) may be waived on a 


 country by country basis if the President determines that 


 doing so is in the national security interest of the United 


 States: Provided, That prior to exercising such waiver 


 authority, the President shall submit a report to the 


 Committees on Appropriations, in classified form if 


 necessary, on:





 (1) the steps being taken to obtain the cooperation of the 


 government in surrendering the indictee in question to the 


 court of jurisdiction;



 (2) a strategy, including a timeline, for bringing the 


 indictee before such court; and



 (3) the justification for exercising the waiver authority.






combatting piracy of united states copyrighted materials




 Sec. 695. (a) Program Authorized.--The Secretary of State 


 may carry out a program of activities to combat piracy in 


 countries that are not members of the Organization for 


 Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), including 


 activities as follows:



 (1) The provision of equipment and training for law 


 enforcement, including in the interpretation of intellectual 


 property laws.



 (2) The provision of training for judges and prosecutors, 


 including in the interpretation of intellectual property 


 laws.



 (3) The provision of assistance in complying with 


 obligations under applicable international treaties and 


 agreements on copyright and intellectual property.



 (b) Consultation With World Intellectual Property 


 Organization.--In carrying out the program authorized by 


 subsection (a), the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent 


 practicable, consult with and provide assistance to the World 


 Intellectual Property Organization in order to promote the 


 integration of countries described in subsection (a) into the 


 global intellectual property system.



 (c) Funding.--Of the amount appropriated or otherwise made 


 available under the heading ''INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL 


 AND LAW ENFORCEMENT'', $5,000,000 may be made available in 


 fiscal year 2008 for the program authorized by subsection 


 (a).












oversight of iraq reconstruction




 Sec. 696. (a) Section 3001 of the Emergency Supplemental 


 Appropriations Act for Defense and for the Reconstruction of 


 Iraq and Afghanistan, 2004 (Public Law 108-106; 117 Stat. 


 1238; 5 U.S.C. App., note to section 8G of Public Law 95-


 452), as amended by section 1054(b) of the John Warner 


 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 


 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2397), section 2 of the Iraq 


 Reconstruction Accountability Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-


 440), and section 3801 of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' 


 Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability 


 Appropriations Act, 2007 (Public Law 110-28) is amended--



 (1) in subsection (h)(1) by striking ''pay rates.'' and 


 inserting ''pay rates, and may exercise the authorities of 


 subsections (b) through (i) of section 3161 of title 5, 


 United States Code (without regard to subsection (a) of such 


 section).'';



 (2) in subsection (o)(1)(B) by striking ''fiscal year 2006 


 or fiscal year 2007'' and inserting ''fiscal years 2006 


 through 2008''; and



 (3) by adding at the end of such section the following 


 subsection:



 ''(p) Rule of Construction.--For the purposes of carrying 


 out the duties of the Inspector General, any United States 


 funds appropriated or otherwise made available for fiscal 


 years 2006 through 2008 for the reconstruction of Iraq, 


 irrespective of the designation of such funds, shall be 


 deemed to be amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 


 to the Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund.''.



 (b) Section 1054(a) of Public Law 109-364 is amended by 


 striking ''fiscal year 2006'' and inserting ''fiscal years 


 2006 through 2008''.










 united nations headquarters renovation




 Sec. 697. It is the sense of the Congress that the amount 


 of any loan for the renovation of the United Nations 


 headquarters building located in New York, New York, should 


 not exceed $600,000,000: Provided, That if any loan exceeds 


 $600,000,000, the Secretary of State shall notify the 


 Congress of the current cost of the renovation and cost 


 containment measures.















 neglected diseases




 Sec. 698. Of the funds appropriated under the heading 


 ''Child Survival and Health Programs Fund'', not less than 


 $18,000,000 shall be made available to support an integrated 


 response to the control of neglected diseases including 


 intestinal parasites, schistosomiasis, lymphatic filariasis, 


 onchocerciasis, trachoma and leprosy: Provided, That the 


 Administrator of the United States Agency for International 


 Development shall consult with the Committees on 


 Appropriations, representatives from the relevant 


 international technical and nongovernmental organizations 


 addressing the specific diseases, recipient countries, donor 


 countries, the private sector, UNICEF and the World Health 


 Organization: (1) on the most effective uses of such funds to 


 demonstrate the health and economic benefits of such an 


 approach; and (2) to develop a multilateral, integrated 


 initiative to control these diseases that will enhance 


 coordination and effectiveness and maximize the leverage of 


 United States contributions with those of other donors: 


 Provided further, That funds made available pursuant to this 


 section shall be subject to the regular notification 


 procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.















assistance for egypt




 Sec. 699. (a) Foreign Military Financing Program.--Of the 


 funds appropriated by this Act for Egypt under the heading 


 ''FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PROGRAM'', $200,000,000 shall 


 not be made available for obligation until the Secretary of 


 State certifies and reports to the Committees on 


 Appropriations that the Government of Egypt has taken 


 concrete and measurable steps to--



 (1) enact and implement a new judicial authority law that 


 protects the independence of the judiciary;



 (2) review criminal procedures and train police leadership 


 in modern policing to curb police abuses; and



 (3) detect and destroy the smuggling network and smuggling 


 tunnels that lead from Egypt to Gaza.












 Amendment Offered by Mr. Boustany
