---
---

# PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE BILL VETO
## `c97ec9b32726bb10adf77115539e2169`
`Mr. SESTAK — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. SESTAK. I appreciate the opportunity to speak. What occurred in 
this defense bill by the veto of this President I honestly think is 
almost unprecedented. Take Vice Admiral Stockdale, the senior prisoner 
of war in North Vietnam. When he was asked, Did you ever think that you 
would return to the United States, he said, I never lost faith in the 
end of the story, that I would prevail, that I will win at the end and 
return to my home, to my home, America.

If there is anything I learned in the military, and as I went about 
the world those 31 years in the Navy, we are respected for the power of 
our military, respected for the power of our economy. We are admired 
for the power of our ideas.

My wife, who worked on a project for the office of Missing in Action/
Prisoners of War in the office of the Secretary of Defense, she speaks 
Russian, and so she went to Russia to dig a bit to see about how they 
were going about their archives in Russia, looking for records of those 
that we may have lost or we are still missing, potentially, even back 
to World War II, Korea, the Korean War, Vietnam. The Russian general 
said to her, Why do you care so much in America about those you may 
have lost long ago?

Here we have men and women who wear the cloth of this Nation. They 
went to war for this Nation in the first Gulf War. They were tortured, 
close to giving the ultimate sacrifice, and they came home. Under the 
rule of law, which this Nation stands for above everything else, the 
rule of law and its ideals, they correctly won judgment against the 
Iraqi Government that is, as you said before, obligated for the prior 
Iraqi Government's actions. And the President vetoed a bill, not 
because it would have any harm on the reconstruction efforts of this 
government, but because they threatened this Government of Iraq to pull 
$25 billion out of our trillions of dollars of markets in the economy, 
$25 billion.

We spend close to $12 billion a month for our war in Iraq. Two 
months. These men and women gave something that's priceless, the 
opportunity that their lives might be given in support of this Nation. 
I wish this Congress had voted to try to override that veto. I thank 
you, above all else, for submitting this bill that we will have another 
attempt to right this wrong.

We are very fortunate that there are those who recognize that great 
portrait that sits across from the Secretary of Defense's office. And 
there is a young servicemember in this picture, that is kneeling in 
church with his young family next to him. It's very obvious he is about 
to go away for another 6 months, 8-month deployment, leaving home 
again.

Under it is this wonderful saying from the Book of Isaiah, where God 
has turned to Isaiah and says, Whom will go for us, whom shall I send? 
Isaiah replies, Here am I, send me. Here am I, send me.

How we treat those who somehow grow up in America to go and say, Here 
am I, send me, how we treat them in their adversities when they return 
home I honestly think will either continue those to say, Here am I, 
send me, or it may damage it. In this case it was wrong of this 
President, and I thank you so much for trying to prevail in the end 
with this bill.