# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `c9811e35736015026d560c7bb475124e`
`Mr. LANTOS — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. LANTOS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this legislation 
and yield myself such time as I might consume.

Mr. Speaker, in Iraq today a misguided war is raging in our country's 
name. We in this Congress and the American people across the country 
are filled with admiration for the heroism and sacrifice of our 
soldiers on the battlefield. But we cannot fathom the mindless 
stubbornness of the administration fixated on illusory aids. It is 
pathologically preoccupied with pursuing that despite all the evidence 
of how destructive the situation has become.

Mr. Speaker, we have seen this movie before, quite literally, as any 
classic film buff knows: ''The Bridge on the River Kwai,'' an Academy 
Award-winning tale based on real events in World War II. Alec Guinness 
plays a British colonel mesmerized and hypnotized by the goal of 
building a bridge that will last through the ages even though doing so 
will only strengthen the enemy. For a while Alec Guinness persuades his 
fellow prisoners of war that completing his weird project will leave a 
legacy of which they can be proud.


But it soon becomes clear that the real goal is to build a monument to 
himself as he looks back on his few true achievements in life.

At one point this antihero tells his men, We can teach these 
barbarians a lesson in Western methods and efficiency that will put 
them to shame. Mr. Speaker, at this point the audience knows where the 
real shame lies.

The American people know that what happens by our hand in Iraq will 
be our legacy. We are no longer willing to tolerate keeping our sons 
and daughters in the midst of a sectarian civil war. The war in Iraq 
was launched by an administration using faulty intelligence and 
mesmerized by a dream of some sort of monument to democracy in the 
Middle East with Iraq at its center. It is past time to stop enabling 
the construction of this folly.

The legislation before us directs that the redeployment of U.S. 
forces in Iraq be carried out in a safe and orderly manner. It sets a 
time certain by which that should start, and it is clearly intended to 
bring about a major reduction in our troop presence by April of next 
year. And in the meantime, our legislation will compel the 
administration to come up with something which amazingly enough to date 
it hasn't had: a comprehensive strategy for Iraq addressing our 
national security interests not only there but in the entire region and 
the ways to maintain our interests even as this redeployment is carried 
out.

Mr. Speaker, today the administration issued its interim report on 
the troop escalation in Iraq. Though the White House chooses to focus 
on the benchmarks that have been met in what it calls a 
''satisfactory'' way, the assessment, in fact, shows that Iraq has made 
unsatisfactory progress on half of the 18 political and military goals 
that Congress set for Iraq this spring.

The people of Iraq and our fighting forces there know the situation 
all too well. The index of progress that they face each day tells them 
much more than a 25-page report can ever say. With every car bomb that 
takes a civilian toll, every insurgent's bullet that finds its mark, 
every roadside explosive that maims or kills one of our own brave men 
and women in uniform, the sacrifices mount; and the result is anything 
but satisfactory.

This is why, Mr. Speaker, our measure deserves our full and 
unwavering support. We need to direct a misguided administration to 
face reality and to start the responsible redeployment of our forces 
from Iraq. By asking this Congress to extend our patience yet again, by 
pointlessly risking our troops, and by continuing to ignore the will of 
the American people to end this war, the administration is reaching for 
a bridge much too far.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.