---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `c9ab5c24c96b5f711612b5301b34fc10`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. I thank the chairman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise in support of victory in Iraq and in 
support of our troops. But I also rise to oppose this Democratic 
defeatist resolution and I hope to provide some historical perspective 
to help the American people understand what the Democrats plan to do 
this year.

Make no mistake about it, this resolution is about polls. National 
polling before November's elections showed a majority of Americans were 
opposed to cutting off funds for the war but were generally unhappy 
with events on the ground. Now, this polling data led the Democratic 
message machine to create a ''we support the troops, don't support the 
war but won't cut off funding'' position. Much like Majority Leader 
Hoyer's empty promises to allow a Republican alternative to this 
defeatist resolution, the Democrats are now following polls and slowly, 
piece by piece, bit by bit, revising their stance on defunding the war.

Due to their majority status, this resolution will pass, and soon 
after the


passage, I suspect that Congressman Murtha and others will move to 
defund the war the same way the Democratic-controlled Congress defunded 
the Vietnam War over a several-year period. They will do so in a 
piecemeal fashion with various amendments to appropriation bills, 
always avoiding the term ''defunding'' at all costs.



Before we have even concluded this debate, our Speaker has already 
said a vote of disapproval will set the stage for additional Iraq 
legislation, which will be coming to the House floor. I ask our 
Speaker, what is your additional Iraq legislation?

The only difference between what the Democrats will soon attempt to 
do and what they did in the late 1960s and early 1970s is that they 
will continue to say publicly that they support the troops, instead of 
speaking, as Senator Kerry did, in front of a congressional committee 
of the atrocities of the so-called baby killers. The poisonous 
atmosphere of those times resulted in the military prohibiting all 
military personnel in the metropolitan Washington area from wearing 
their uniforms in public out of safety concerns.

Now, two of the most crippling amendments of the Vietnam War were 
passed in 1969 and 1973. In 1969, Senator John Sherman Cooper of 
Kentucky cosponsored an amendment prohibiting the use of ground troops 
in Laos and Thailand. In August of 1973, the Congress passed the 
Fulbright-Aiken amendment, which cut off all funding for U.S. military 
forces in or over or from the shore of North Vietnam, South Vietnam, 
Laos or Cambodia.

President Nixon's approval ratings in 1973 were dismally low, and he 
was close to resigning as a result of the Watergate scandal, and his 
weakened position emboldened the Democrats to take extreme actions. I 
would say that some of their actions may have bordered on treasonous, 
but they have never been judicially challenged.

Our current President has an approval rating nearly as low now as 
they did then. Democrats are feeling emboldened to challenge our 
Commander in Chief during a time of war specifically for political 
gain.

It has also been said that this nonbinding resolution will not affect 
troop morale. If so, why not amend this nonbinding resolution to send a 
copy to every man and woman fighting in Iraq, along with a record of 
each vote. That is right, we don't get a chance to have any amendments.

What is important here are the President's words and his actions. He 
has ordered more combat forces to Iraq. He has extended the tours of 
some forces already in country. Let us be perfectly clear, 14 of the 18 
provinces in Iraq are secure. These additional forces will help restore 
overall order and provide a stable environment for the political 
process from within which to work. Now, I cannot assure all of my 
constituents that the recent developments in Iraq will result in a 
quick or certain victory in Iraq. But I can assure my constituents and 
my colleagues that Democrats cannot say with absolute certainty that 
there is no military solution to the war in Iraq.

I must also point out several other recent Democratic statements that 
I take issue with, like the one from over this weekend, where a Senator 
with Presidential ambitions said that more than 3,000 lives were 
wasted. Of course, he clarified his remarks, because he forgot about 
the secret Democratic memo that this isn't the 1970s any more, and 
trashing the military is no longer acceptable.

It reminds me of a former Presidential candidate who said that those 
who joined our Army were only stupid people. Of course, after the polls 
came in, he clarified his remarks because he saw they were not being 
taken very well.

Back to the polls, only 15 percent of the public expressed initial 
support for the first President Bush to invade Iraq in 1991. Many in my 
own Republican Party vehemently opposed FDR in World War II. During the 
Civil War, there was a congressional committee that met officially and 
unofficially on a regular basis to critique President Lincoln's 
performance in nearly every battle the Union waged. Does history now 
reflect these?

Mr. Speaker, I ask that the rest of my comments be inserted in the 
Record.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of victory in Iraq and in support of 
our troops.

I rise to oppose this Democratic defeatist resolution and I hope to 
provide some historical perspective to help the American people 
understand what the Democrats plan to do this year.

Make no mistake about it--this resolution is about polls. National 
polling before November's elections showed a majority of Americans were 
opposed to cutting off funds for the war, but were generally unhappy 
with events on the ground.

This polling data led the Democratic message machine to create a ''we 
support the troops, don't support the war, but won't cut off funding'' 
position. Much like Majority Leader Hoyer's empty promises to allow a 
Republican alternative to this defeatist resolution, the Democrats are 
now following polls and slowly, piece by piece, bit by bit, revising 
their stance on defunding the war.

Due to their majority status, this resolution will pass and soon 
after the passage, I suspect Congressman Murtha and others will move to 
defund the war in the same way the Democratic controlled congress 
defunded the Vietnam war over a several year period. They will do so in 
a piecemeal fashion with various amendments to appropriations bills and 
avoid the term ''defunding'' at all costs. Before we have even 
concluded this debate, our Speaker has already said, ''A vote of 
disapproval will set the stage for additional Iraq legislation, which 
will be coming to the House floor.'' I say to Speaker Pelosi what is 
your additional Iraq legislation?

This immoral approach will slowly squeeze off funding and support and 
become a self fulfilling prophecy for the Democratic party--a party 
fixated on the 2008 election and ''intoxicated'' by their new majority 
status.

The only difference between what the Democrats will soon attempt to 
do and what they did in the late 60's and early 70's is they will 
continue to say publicly they support the troops, as Senator Kerry did 
in front of a congressional committee, of the atrocities of the so-
called ''baby-killers.'' The poisonous atmosphere of those times 
resulted in the military prohibiting all military personnel in the 
Metropolitan Washington area from wearing their uniforms in public, out 
of safety concerns.

Two of the most crippling amendments of the Vietnam war were passed 
in 1969 and 1973. In 1969, Senator John Sherman Cooper (R-KY) 
cosponsored an amendment prohibiting the use of ground troops in Laos 
and Thailand. In August 1973 the Congress passed the Fulbright-Aiken 
amendment which cut off all funding for U.S. military forces in, or 
over, or from the shore of North Vietnam, South Vietnam, Laos or 
Cambodia.

President Nixon's approval ratings in 1973 were dismally low and he 
was close to resigning as a result of the Watergate scandal. His 
weakened position emboldened Democrats to take extreme actions. Some of 
their actions may have bordered on treasonous, but have never been 
judicially challenged. Our current President has an approval rating 
nearly as low; and now, as they did then, Democrats are feeling 
emboldened to challenge our Commander-in-Chief during a time of war, 
for political gain.


Last week the Democratic-controlled United States Senate attempted to 
debate various non-binding resolutions about the Iraq war. I must admit 
I found it interesting to hear Majority Leader Reid say that voting on 
a non-binding resolution would show the American people where they 
stood on the war. Senator Reid and the Democratic leadership of both 
the House and Senate have made it very clear where they stand on the 
war--they are opposed to winning the war, claim they were tricked into 
supporting it and will do anything in their power to cut off all 
funding to the war.

I encourage Democrats to put forth a bill that eliminates all funding 
for the Iraq war along with an accompanying statement of non-support 
for the deployed troops. This would show their true colors and allow 
the Democrats to be intellectually honest.

It has been said this non-binding resolution will not affect troop 
morale. If so, why not amend this nonbinding resolution to send every 
man and woman fighting in Iraq a copy of it, along with the recorded 
vote.

Oh--that's right, no amendments.

This would also stand in stark contrast to their most recent act of 
hypocrisy--voting to confirm General David Patraeus, wishing him luck 
and then moving to undercut his efforts soon after he left the Capitol 
to begin his journey to Iraq.

More importantly, we need to achieve real progress in Iraq. We have 
come to a critical juncture and must make sure the price that has been 
paid--the blood of our young men and women--results in victory. To 
ensure a real and enduring victory, our Commander-in-Chief is moving 
forward with a new plan. Some in Congress and the media are debating 
whether it is a new strategy, a new set of


tactics or no change at all. This political posturing is unimportant to 
the Specialist or Corporal walking point in Baghdad or Al-Anbar 
province.

What is important are the President's words and his actions. He has 
ordered more combat forces to Iraq and has extended the tours of some 
forces already in the country. Their mission is to restore order to the 
4 provinces in Iraq that remain volatile. Let us be perfectly clear, 14 
of the 18 provinces are secure. These additional forces will help 
restore overall order and provide a stable environment for the 
political process within to work.

Today we have received reports from various sources that the radical 
cleric Al-Sadr may have fled to Iran as a result of the American and 
Iraqi forces cracking down on his militias and top aides. Iraqi forces 
are showing up to their appointed duty locations in excess of 70 
percent of the time. The Iraqi government is taking the politically 
difficult step of forcing some Baghdad residents to vacate homes they 
unlawfully moved into during the war. There is also talk of stricter 
curfews and closing the borders with Syria and Iran for 30 days--all of 
this talk coming from the Iraqis.


I cannot assure my constituents these recent developments will result 
in a quick or certain victory in Iraq. I can assure my constituents and 
my colleagues that Democrats cannot say with absolute certainty that 
there is no military solution to Iraq. I also must point out several 
other recent Democratic statements that I take issue with.

One Senator with Presidential ambitions claimed that the more than 
3,000 lives lost in the war had been wasted--he then immediately 
clarified his remarks because he had forgotten the secret Democrat memo 
stating that this isn't the 70's and trashing the military is no longer 
acceptable. This reminds me of a former presidential candidate's 
comments alleging that only stupid people end up in the Army and in 
Iraq. Of course, another ''clarification'' was issued soon after these 
comments since 2-3 days of polling indicated that the remarks were not 
well received.

Back to polls--only 15 percent of the public expressed initial 
support for the first President Bush to invade Iraq in 1991. Many in my 
own Republican party vehemently opposed FDR in World War II and during 
the Civil War there was a congressional committee that met officially, 
and unofficially, on a regular basis to critique President Lincoln's 
performance in nearly every battle the Union waged.

Does history now reflect that these three conflicts were wrong for 
America to engage in? I think not. Resolute leaders bucked short term 
public opinion for the good of the country in the long term. That is 
why we elect Presidents and that is what we should demand of them.

To date, mistakes have been made and the President has acknowledged 
them. We must, however, win this war. I believe immediate withdrawal 
will destabilize the region and cause us to return there in the future, 
as we have had to do in many regions throughout our history. We cannot 
fight a war based on polls and emotions. We must take actions that will 
preserve and enhance our national security now and beyond the next 
election, the next news cycle or the next opinion poll.