---
---

# HONORING THE MILITARY SERVICE OF STAFF SERGEANT EVERETT PATTON
## `c9ad9ed5aaf5ece080f55485ee18c8a4`
`Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky — 1 February 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay public 
tribute to Army Staff Sergeant Everett Patton for his courageous 
service to our country during his recent deployment in Iraq. Staff 
Sergeant Patton, a resident of Owensboro, Kentucky, is currently 
recovering from severe burns at the Brooke Medical Center in Fort Sam 
Houston, Texas following an IED attack.

Staff Sergeant Patton began his military career in the United States 
Marine Corps. After a brief tenure working in civilian construction, 
Mr. Patton and his wife Christy enlisted in the Army in January 1999. 
He was first assigned as a Specialist in the heavy construction 
equipment operator field with C Company 5th Engineer Battalion at Fort 
Leonard Wood, Missouri.

Staff Sergeant Patton reenlisted in 2002 and was placed in the 562nd 
Engineer Company in Alaska as squad leader. He was deployed to 
Operation Iraqi Freedom in July 2005 for his first six-month tour as 
part of the 172nd Stryker Brigade. He returned to Iraq for a second 
tour in 2006.

While operating a bulldozer, Staff Sergeant Patton struck an IED that 
exploded and quickly engulfed his vehicle in flames. Gratefully, he 
survived the explosion but suffered severe burns over almost 70% of his 
body.

Staff Sergeant Patton is making a remarkable recovery in the burn 
unit at Brooke Medical Center in Fort Sam Houston, Texas. On January 
29th, he was honored with the Purple Heart Award. He remains in high 
spirits with the love and support of his wife and five children.

I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to 
Staff Sergeant Patton for selflessly standing in harm's way to protect 
our freedom and way of life. His courage and sacrifice represent the 
very best of what it means to be a United States soldier and citizen.

It is my great privilege to recognize Staff Sergeant Everett Patton 
today, before the entire U.S. House of Representatives, for his 
generous service and unflinching duty to our great country. My 
colleagues and I wish him a quick return to good health.
