# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `c9aeffaa29bf789c5151e7615b938d86`
`Mr. GRAHAM â€” 20 September 2010`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise to speak about the upcoming vote 
tomorrow at 2:15 on the Defense authorization bill. I don't know the 
state of play, but it looks as though we will bring to the floor a 
Defense authorization bill without any ability to amend the bill beyond 
a very limited set of amendments. If one is watching the political 
discourse at the moment, they would not realize we are at war in two 
different theaters and that Iran is pursuing a nuclear weapon, and that 
maybe a year from now they will have one. We are talking about domestic 
politics and spending. That is good. But what is equally important is 
national security.

The Defense authorization bill is coming to the Senate floor 
tomorrow, and we have a don't ask, don't tell policy change within the 
bill that basically says we are going to change the law that would get 
rid of don't ask, don't tell; a policy that has worked very well, that 
we would receive input from the military, and we are going to change 
the law before we ask our men and women in uniform about their opinion. 
That is a huge mistake. We were told last year there would be a study 
among all the services about the effect of don't ask, don't tell on 
recruiting and retention and how it would affect the Armed Forces.

Before we can get the study done, I think the Congress is going to 
repeal the law because our Democratic friends believe in the fall there 
will be more Republicans. So they are going to try to do it now. We 
should not repeal don't ask, don't tell until we get input from our men 
and women who are serving. That is one thing that is driving this bill.

The DREAM Act is a piece of legislation that would give legal status 
to young children who were brought into the country illegally, brought 
here as children as illegal immigrants. They have lived most of their 
lives here. It would allow them to go to school under State tuition. It 
would give them legal status. That is an issue that needs to be talked 
about in terms of comprehensive immigration reform, not the Defense 
authorization bill.

If someone were listening to the debate on the Defense authorization 
bill, they would believe the biggest national security threats we face 
are abortions in military hospitals, the DREAM Act, which has to do 
with citizenship for young illegal immigrants, and don't ask, don't 
tell. We are not talking about what happens if Iran gets a nuclear 
weapon, how we win in Afghanistan, or what we need to do to get Iraq 
right. We are on the 10 yard line, but we are not there yet.

I have an amendment I would like to offer to the body that would get 
99


votes. It says stop reading terrorists their Miranda rights. This is 
not crime we are fighting. We are fighting a war. I don't believe in 
torture; I believe in living within our values. But there is a 
difference between a law enforcement activity and fighting a war.

When we capture a terrorist who just tried to blow up an airplane 
over Detroit, the last thing we need to do is read them their Miranda 
rights. We should take them off the airplane, turn them over to the 
military, the CIA, and let them be questioned about future attacks 
within our values--not torture but firmly and effectively asked about 
intelligence.

The moment we read somebody their Miranda rights, we go into the area 
of law enforcement. We are fighting a war, not a crime. I have a bill 
that would change our habeas review process where an enemy prisoner is 
allowed to go to Federal court under Supreme Court holdings, and when 
they go to court, the habeas review doesn't have any uniform standards. 
In one case they let the guy go because the government couldn't prove 
he was a member of al-Qaida on the day he was captured. But they could 
prove without a doubt that he had trained with al-Qaida, swore an oath 
to al-Qaida right after 9/11. The burden should be on the enemy 
combatant to prove they are not a member of al-Qaida once we have 
established they were at some point in time.

The whole habeas review system needs to be looked at. Our judges are 
crying out for some congressional involvement to give them uniform 
standards.

We have 48 people in prison at Guantanamo Bay held for years without 
trial. Under the law of war, we can hold an enemy prisoner indefinitely 
without trial because it is part of a war. Under domestic criminal law, 
we have to charge somebody with a crime or let them go. That is a 
dilemma we should not face. If someone is being held as an enemy 
combatant, there ought to be a legal process to make that determination 
with an annual review. I would like to create that legal process. I 
would like to create some rational legal system that recognizes we are 
at war, not fighting a crime. But the only thing I can talk about is 
don't ask, don't tell and the DREAM Act. This is ridiculous.

We have men and women in harm's way. This Nation is under siege. We 
have not adjusted our laws since 9/11 to be at war within our values. 
The extremes can't be the norm. The choice between waterboarding and 
the Army Field Manual in terms of interrogation should not be the two 
choices. The CIA today is out of the interrogation business. The 
Executive order issued by President Obama denies the CIA the ability to 
use enhanced interrogation techniques that this body passed under the 
Detainee Treatment Act, so the CIA is basically an organization without 
any ability to question someone. If we capture terrorists tomorrow, 
where will we put them? Guantanamo Bay hadn't been used in years. We 
are a nation without a jail. These are big issues that need to be 
addressed in a comprehensive fashion.

The Defense authorization bill is the natural venue. But under the 
process before the Senate, it is being shut down, and the Defense 
authorization bill is no longer a vehicle to deal with defense matters. 
It is now a political checklist before the November elections. The 
Hispanic community, check; they got a vote on the DREAM Act.