---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES
## `c9af98ee47b16514d1a90530d608d53a`
`Mr. BURR — 17 November 2009`

---


Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I wish to speak to amendment No. 2743 which 
would reallocate $750,000 from the general operating expense account to 
fund programs to end veterans' homelessness, including the Department 
of Veterans Affairs' Homeless Provider Grant and Per Diem Program, and 
VA's Supportive Services Grants Program.

This money will help more than 131,000 veterans who are homeless on 
any given night including the estimated 1,659 homeless veterans in my 
home state. Many veterans are considered homeless or at risk due to 
their poverty, lack of support systems, and poor living conditions.

Homeless veterans are comprised of middle-age and elderly veterans, 
as well as younger veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. The VA 
has identified 1,500 homeless veterans who fought during the current 
wars and of those, only 400 have participated in programs specifically 
targeting homelessness.

Sadly, homelessness among the ranks of recently separated combat 
veterans is not a new phenomenon, and their plight for the Nation's 
compassionate assistance is just as strong today as it was centuries 
ago. According to Todd DePastino, a historian at Penn State, homeless 
veterans of the post-Civil War era sang old Army songs to dramatize 
their need for work.

After World War I, thousands of veterans marched and camped in the 
Nation's Capital to express their frustration over bonus money. Many of 
these veterans were either homeless or at risk of becoming homeless.

After the Vietnam war, returning veterans were faced with serious 
physical, mental, and socio-economic problems that put them at serious 
risk of becoming homeless. According to VA the number of homeless male 
and female Vietnam era veterans is greater than the number of 
servicemembers who died during the Vietnam war.

It is important that Congress and VA remember the lessons learned 
from previous wars. We must work together to prevent homelessness 
before it begins with the goal of eliminating homelessness. Much 
progress has been made, but we can do better.

My amendment targets two specific areas within VA's medical care 
budget for more funding. The Homeless Provider Grant and Per Diem 
Program offers funding to community agencies that provide services to 
homeless veterans. The purpose of the program is to promote the 
development and provision of supportive housing and/or supportive 
services with the goal of helping veterans achieve and maintain 
residential stability.

The supportive services programs allow veterans who are at risk or 
who are reentering the workforce to receive services that will reduce 
their likelihood of becoming homeless. Supportive services include 
health care services; daily living services, personal financial 
planning; transportation services; income support services; fiduciary 
and representative payee services; legal services; child care; housing 
counseling; and other services necessary for maintaining independent 
living.

In short, these programs are comprehensive and they work.

My original intention was to offer an amendment that would reallocate 
$43,387,240, on top of the money in this amendment, for homeless 
programs. Ten years ago that money was originally appropriated for the 
Multifamily Transitional Housing Loan Guarantee Program. Since that 
program has been suspended, I believe this money could be put to a 
better use. However, the Congressional Budget Office tells me that 
rescinding the $43 million and spending it on this bill would run afoul 
of our budget rules. I will therefore look for another opportunity to 
put this unused money to a better use in the near future. In the 
meantime, CBO has informed me that the amendment is compliant. I thank 
my colleagues for their support of my amendment.