# None
## `c9b8ce6dafa165bd6635daeb1bcb3760`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN â€” 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Speaker, like many of my colleagues, I believe 
the MoveOn.org advertisement in the New York Times about GEN David 
Petraeus was both wrong and counterproductive. I also agree with all of 
the findings in H.J. Res. 52 that praise General Petraeus's exemplary 
military career, for which he has received numerous awards for his 
service to our country. However, I decided to vote against this 
resolution as a matter of principle and because it is a diversionary 
tactic by the Bush administration and the congressional Republicans. As 
a legislative body determining important issues affecting our citizens, 
the Congress should not be in the business of passing resolutions 
supporting or opposing political ads. Adopting such a practice would 
consume all our time and divert our attention from important issues 
like the war in Iraq.

The MoveOn.org advertisement was wrong to question the integrity of 
General Petraeus. It was also counterproductive in that it took the 
focus off of President Bush's failed Iraq policies and made General 
Petraeus the political face of the war. That is exactly what the Bush 
administration wanted. Moreover, by shifting the focus from President 
Bush to a political attack on General Petraeus, the Republicans have 
cleverly attempted to divert attention from the President's 
responsibility and the real security issues we are facing in the world, 
like the re-emergence of al-Qaeda along the Pakistan-Afghanistan 
border. I would have supported the resolution that was put forward by 
Senate Democrats which reaffirms our strong support for the men and 
women of our Armed Forces, and which condemns all attacks on those who 
are serving or who have served in the Armed Forces.
