---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `c9cf34e3f759cbb2fd15023af10fb497`
`Mrs. McCASKILL — 26 September 2007`

---


Mrs. McCASKILL. I believe that what happened was in an unprecedented 
fashion, we engaged in contracting--I know the Senator is a student of 
history, and if he looks back at the history of the Seabees and where 
the Seabees came from in terms of the idea that you are going to put 
people in the middle of a conflict who are not military personnel, in 
terms of doing ancillary activities apart from the direct military 
mission, it is unprecedented what we have done in this conflict in 
terms of the contracting.

I don't think the active military was prepared for this kind of scope 
in terms of the types of contracts that were entered into, many of them 
not definitized, many of them not with the kind of oversight that one 
would expect for contracts that run into $15 billion, $20 billion per 
contract, in some instances. I think this was a matter of we need it 
now, we don't have the end strength to get everything done we need to 
get done; if we contract it, it is going to be cheaper in terms of 
legacy costs to get a worker to peel potatoes than to recruit a soldier 
to peel potatoes or to cook.

I understand that was done long term because it had the potential for 
efficiencies, it had a potential to preserve our ground strength for 
the military mission and to allow us to not incur the legacy costs of 
another member of the active military.

In reality, because they were not prepared in terms of their systems 
for this level of contracting and oversight, bad things happened--very 
bad things happened.

If we are going to continue to contract at this level, why not at 
this fork in the road embark upon a limited 2-year exercise in a 
nonpartisan way to get concrete suggestions with expertise and not 
creating a new bureaucracy, because they can access those 20,000 
people, they can access the Army auditor, they can access the 
contracting agency within the Army, they can access all the inspectors 
general, they can access all the acquisition and procurement 
specialists. They can access that information, bring it together for 
the State Department and for DOD and say: If moving forward we are 
going to continue to contract at this level--and let's be honest, I 
think we are--then these are things we need to be doing.


If the military could do this on its own, we wouldn't have the 
''lessons learned'' book in Bosnia not even getting to the people in 
Iraq until after they entered into most of these contracts. We remember 
the testimony from David Walker. He talked about the fact that even 
though they had drawn up the book and said these are all the mistakes 
we made in Bosnia, guess what. They forgot to look at the book before 
they began down the very same road in the Iraq conflict. That is what I 
want to prevent in the future.

This is about looking forward and not about looking back. This is 
about figuring out a way forward that we can responsibly contract in a 
way that protects our military and the strength of our military, and, 
boy, would I like the help of the Senator from Virginia.