---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `c9edf45d7d68fe0922ddd02b36dfdd75`
`Mr. WARNER — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. It is dated as of January 27, 2007. It says, ''Transition 
Iraq to Security Self-Reliance--Iraq Security Forces.''

It lays it out. This is what the American taxpayer has been 
expending--an enormous sum of money for 2/1/2/ years to train the Iraqi 
forces. I bring to your attention, for the Ministry of Defense Forces: 
the army, 132,700; air force, 900; the navy, 1,100; total, 134,700. 
Ministry of Interior, trained and equipped: police, 135,000; national 
police, 24,400; other MOI forces, 28,900; total, 188,300. That is a 
total of 323,000 forces trained in the past 2/1/2/ years.

In the resolution my distinguished colleagues and I have put 
together, we specifically say look at all options. I say the Iraqi's 
are the ones who should be responsible for these problems in Baghdad. 
We will give them support. We will give them the training. But I say to 
my colleagues here in the Senate, this is what we have trained these 
people to do. The Iraqi forces understand the language. They understand 
the culture. How does an American GI, being thrust into the darkened 
alleys of this city, with all of the crossfire between the Sunni and 
the Shia, and Shia upon Shia decide whom to shoot, how to direct the 
force?

The National Intelligence Estimate just released made mention of 
this. The report states--I shall read it.




 The intelligence community judges that the term ''civil 


 war'' does not adequately capture the complexity of the 


 conflict in Iraq, which includes extensive Shia-on-Shia 


 violence, al-Qa'ida and Sunni insurgent attacks on Coalition 


 forces, and widespread criminally motivated violence. 


 Nonetheless, the term ''civil war'' accurately describes key 


 elements of the Iraqi conflict, including the hardening of 


 ethno-sectarian identities, a sea change in the character of 


 the violence, ethno-sectarian mobilization, and population 


 displacement.


I say most respectfully to our President: Mr. President, recognize 
what we have done in 2/1/2/ years to train these people. Let them take 
the point. Let them take the brunt of the fight. And maybe we do not 
need 21,500, together with support troops, to go in and do the job we 
have trained these people to do themselves.

In this regard I would like to quote from T.E. Lawrence. This quote 
is also cited in the Army Field Manual on Counterinsurgency. Lawrence 
said:




 Do not try to do too much with your own hands, better the 


 Arabs do it tolerably than you do it perfectly. It is their 


 war, and you are to help them, not to win it for them.


Additionally, the National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq also 
describes a very complex conflict between all parties in Iraq. Putting 
American soldiers in the midst of that will require military plans and 
orders to contain exquisite tactical detail sufficient to afford our 
men and women in uniform the ability to discern friend from foe in an 
urban environment.

I, and others, also remain very concerned about the command and 
control structure that has been planned for this operation in Baghdad. 
In his January 10, 2007, address to the Nation, President Bush stated 
that U.S. troops would be ''embedded'' in Iraqi formations. This left a 
very serious question about the unity of command. On February 1, 
General Casey described the command and control as '' a nonstandard 
arrangement.'' This nonstandard arrangement must be clarified and our 
resolution addresses this serious concern.

I yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1















 S. Con. Res. 7




 Whereas we respect the Constitutional authorities given a 


 President in article II, section 2, which states that ''The 


 President shall be commander in chief of the Army and Navy of 


 the United States''; it is not the intent of this resolution 


 to question or contravene such authority, but to accept the 


 offer to Congress made by the President on January 10, 2007, 


 that, ''if members have improvements that can be made, we 


 will make them. If circumstances change, we will adjust'';



 Whereas the United States strategy and operations in Iraq 


 can only be sustained and achieved with support from the 


 American people and with a level of bipartisanship;



 Whereas over 137,000 American military personnel are 


 currently serving in Iraq, like thousands of others since 


 March 2003, with the bravery and professionalism consistent 


 with the finest traditions of the United States Armed Forces, 


 and are deserving of the support of all Americans, which they 


 have strongly;



 Whereas many American service personnel have lost their 


 lives, and many more have been wounded, in Iraq, and the 


 American people will always honor their sacrifices and honor 


 their families;



 Whereas the U.S. Army and Marine Corps, including their 


 Reserve and National Guard organizations, together with 


 components of the other branches of the military, are under 


 enormous strain from multiple, extended deployments to Iraq 


 and Afghanistan;



 Whereas these deployments, and those that will follow, will 


 have lasting impacts on the future recruiting, retention and 


 readiness of our Nation's all volunteer force;



 Whereas in the National Defense Authorization Act for 


 Fiscal Year 2006, the Congress stated that ''calendar year 


 2006 should be a period of significant transition to full 


 sovereignty, with Iraqi security forces taking the lead for 


 the security of a free and sovereign Iraq'';



 Whereas United Nations Security Council Resolution 1723, 


 approved November 28, 2006, ''determin[ed] that the situation 


 in Iraq continues to constitute a threat to international 


 peace and security'';



 Whereas Iraq is experiencing a deteriorating and ever-


 widening problem of sectarian and intra-sectarian violence 


 based upon political distrust and cultural differences 


 between some Sunni and Shia Muslims;



 Whereas Iraqis must reach political settlements in order to 


 achieve reconciliation, and the failure of the Iraqis to 


 reach such settlements to support a truly unified government 


 greatly contributes to the increasing violence in Iraq;



 Whereas the responsibility for Iraq's internal security and 


 halting sectarian violence must rest primarily with the 


 Government of Iraq and Iraqi Security Forces;



 Whereas U.S. Central Command Commander General John Abizaid 


 testified to Congress on November 15, 2006, ''I met with 


 every divisional commander, General Casey, the Corps 


 Commander, [and] General Dempsey. We all talked together. And 


 I said, in your professional opinion, if we were to bring in 


 more American troops now, does it add considerably to our 


 ability to achieve success in Iraq? And they all said no. And 


 the reason is, because we want the Iraqis to do more. It's 


 easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do this work. I 


 believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 


 future'';



 Whereas Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki stated on 


 November 27, 2006, that ''The crisis is political, and the 


 ones who can stop the cycle of aggravation and bloodletting 


 of innocents are the politicians'';



 Whereas there is growing evidence that Iraqi public 


 sentiment opposes the continued U.S. troop presence in Iraq, 


 much less increasing the troop level;



 Whereas, in the fall of 2006, leaders in the Administration 


 and Congress, as well as recognized experts in the private 


 sector, began to express concern that the situation in Iraq 


 was deteriorating and required a change in strategy; and, as 


 a consequence, the Administration began an intensive, 


 comprehensive review by all components of the Executive 


 Branch to devise a new strategy;



 Whereas, in December 2006, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group 


 issued a valuable report, suggesting a comprehensive strategy 


 that includes ''new and enhanced diplomatic and political 


 efforts in Iraq and the region, and a change in the primary 


 mission of U.S. forces in Iraq that will enable the United 


 States to begin to move its combat forces out of Iraq 


 responsibly'';



 Whereas, on January 10, 2007, following consultations with 


 the Iraqi Prime Minister, the President announced a new 


 strategy (hereinafter referred to as the ''plan''), which 


 consists of three basic elements: diplomatic, economic, and 


 military; the central component of the military element is an 


 augmentation of the present level of the U.S. military forces 


 through additional deployments of approximately 21,500 U.S. 


 military troops to Iraq;



 Whereas, on January 10, 2007, the President said that the 


 ''Iraqi government will appoint a military commander and two 


 deputy commanders for their capital'' and that U.S. forces 


 will ''be embedded in their formations''; and in subsequent 


 testimony before the Armed Services Committee on January 25, 


 2007, by the retired former Vice Chief of the Army it was 


 learned that there will also be a comparable U.S. command in 


 Baghdad, and that this dual chain of command may be




 problematic because ''the Iraqis are going to be able to move 


 their forces around at times where we will disagree with that 


 movement'', and called for clarification;



 Whereas this proposed level of troop augmentation far 


 exceeds the expectations of many of us as to the 


 reinforcements that would be necessary to implement the 


 various options for a new strategy, and led many members of 


 Congress to express outright opposition to augmenting our 


 troops by 21,500;



 Whereas the Government of Iraq has promised repeatedly to 


 assume a greater share of security responsibilities, disband 


 militias, consider Constitutional amendments and enact laws 


 to reconcile sectarian differences, and improve the quality 


 of essential services for the Iraqi people; yet, despite 


 those promises, little has been achieved;



 Whereas the President said on January 10, 2007, that ''I've 


 made it clear to the Prime Minister and Iraq's other leaders 


 that America's commitment is not open-ended'' so as to dispel 


 the contrary impression that exists; and



 Whereas the recommendations in this resolution should not 


 be interpreted as precipitating any immediate reduction in, 


 or withdrawal of, the present level of forces: Now, 


 therefore, be it--



 Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives 


 concurring), That it is the sense of Congress that--



 (1) the Senate disagrees with the ''plan'' to augment our 


 forces by 21,500, and urges the President instead to consider 


 all options and alternatives for achieving the strategic 


 goals set forth below;



 (2) the Senate believes the United States should continue 


 vigorous operations in Anbar province, specifically for the 


 purpose of combating an insurgency, including elements 


 associated with the Al Qaeda movement, and denying terrorists 


 a safe haven;



 (3) the Senate believes a failed state in Iraq would 


 present a threat to regional and world peace, and the long-


 term security interests of the United States are best served 


 by an Iraq that can sustain, govern, and defend itself, and 


 serve as an ally in the war against extremists;



 (4) the Congress should not take any action that will 


 endanger United States military forces in the field, 


 including the elimination or reduction of funds for troops in 


 the field, as such an action with respect to funding would 


 undermine their safety or harm their effectiveness in 


 pursuing their assigned missions;



 (5) the primary objective of the overall U.S. strategy in 


 Iraq should be to encourage Iraqi leaders to make political 


 compromises that will foster reconciliation and strengthen 


 the unity government, ultimately leading to improvements in 


 the security situation;



 (6) the military part of this strategy should focus on 


 maintaining the territorial integrity of Iraq, denying 


 international terrorists a safe haven, conducting 


 counterterrorism operations, promoting regional stability, 


 supporting Iraqi efforts to bring greater security to 


 Baghdad, and training and equipping Iraqi forces to take full 


 responsibility for their own security;



 (7) United States military operations should, as much as 


 possible, be confined to these goals, and should charge the 


 Iraqi military with the primary mission of combating 


 sectarian violence;



 (8) the military Rules of Engagement for this plan should 


 reflect this delineation of responsibilities, and the 


 Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 


 Staff should clarify the command and control arrangements in 


 Baghdad;



 (9) the United States Government should transfer to the 


 Iraqi military, in an expeditious manner, such equipment as 


 is necessary;



 (10) the United States Government should engage selected 


 nations in the Middle East to develop a regional, 


 internationally sponsored peace-and-reconciliation process 


 for Iraq;



 (11) the Administration should provide regular updates to 


 the Congress, produced by the Commander of United States 


 Central Command and his subordinate commanders, about the 


 progress or lack of progress the Iraqis are making toward 


 this end; and



 (12) our overall military, diplomatic, and economic 


 strategy should not be regarded as an ''open-ended'' or 


 unconditional commitment, but rather as a new strategy that 


 hereafter should be conditioned upon the Iraqi government's 


 meeting benchmarks that must be delineated in writing and 


 agreed to by the Iraqi Prime Minister. Such benchmarks should 


 include, but not be limited to, the deployment of that number 


 of additional Iraqi security forces as specified in the plan 


 in Baghdad, ensuring equitable distribution of the resources 


 of the Government of Iraq without regard to the sect or 


 ethnicity of recipients, enacting and implementing 


 legislation to ensure that the oil resources of Iraq benefit 


 Sunni Arabs, Shia Arabs, Kurds, and other Iraqi citizens in 


 an equitable manner, and the authority of Iraqi commanders to 


 make tactical and operational decisions without political 


 intervention.
