---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-80)
## `c9f7725c8d22b5abfef5c786f95b50dc`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Madam Speaker, the President and the Republican 
leadership in Congress never miss an opportunity to not miss an 
opportunity. There was a bipartisan consensus for 10 million children 
to have health care, and because the President didn't agree with it, he 
vetoed it.

Now, some people here say that we could have this vote now. We can 
have this vote in January.

The truth is the real vote will be in November of 2008. Some of us 
disagreed with the President of the United States on stem cell 
research. There was an election, and now we have a new Senator from 
Missouri, we have a new Congressman from Arizona, all because of that 
issue.

And the real vote, and people don't want to talk about it, say it's 
political, that's what a democracy is about. And there will be a vote 
about this, and the American people will vote on this. And those 
Members of Congress that are happy about denying 10 million children 
health care will get a chance and an opportunity to explain that vote. 
Those of us who think it's important will get that.

My own view, I wouldn't want to mix politics with policy, if there's 
going to be a few less Members who vote against 10 million children 
because the American people will make a judgment about that. And we 
shouldn't deny that.

And so I give you credit. You never miss an opportunity to miss an 
opportunity. So, remember, some have talked about for 40 days in Iraq 
you could fund 10 million children's health care. Forty days in Iraq.

President Kennedy once said, ''To govern is to choose.'' Well, you've 
made your choice. We've made our choice. And the American people in 
November are going to make their choice.