---
---

# IRAQ
## `c9f996f51defdc199d5613a911d5ca4d`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, the question that should be before the 
Senate is: Do you support the President's escalation of the war? Don't 
confuse it. Don't obfuscate it. Let's have a clean vote. The only 
charade that is being played is by those who do not want to have a 
clean vote on this most fundamental question.

As a Senator, John F. Kennedy wrote a Pulitzer Prize-winning book 
titled ''Profiles in Courage.'' His book told the stories of eight 
Senators from both sides of the aisle who took a stand based on 
principle and risked their careers to do so. Today, almost 50 years 
later, I believe we, too, must take a stand based on principle. Today, 
I believe all of us who walk on the same floor where Senator John 
Kennedy once stood should heed his words when he said:




 The true democracy, living and growing and inspiring . . . 


 will not condemn those whose devotion to principles leads 


 them to unpopular courses, but will reward courage, respect 


 honor, and ultimately recognize right.


Today is an opportunity for every Member of the Senate to be a 
profile in courage. Frankly, I am disappointed in my Senate colleagues 
who voted against debating Senator Warner's resolution on Iraq. With 
their vote, all they have done is delay honest debate on a failed 
foreign policy that has been misguided since the beginning. I don't 
believe this Senate should turn its back on the American people and 
cast their lot with the President in his escalation of the war in Iraq. 
I believe those who support the President's ill-


advised plan should be willing to stand behind that principle and go on 
record, rather than hide behind parliamentary maneuvers to avoid a 
vote.

Our colleagues should not be running interference for the President 
on the floor of the Senate. In fact, I never supported the 
administration's war--a war of choice, not of necessity; a war based on 
fiction, not on fact; a war fought without enough troops from the very 
beginning and designed with no plan to win the peace. I didn't vote for 
the war, and I certainly would not vote for an escalation of the war.

I was in the minority when I voted against the war in 2002. I was in 
the minority, again, when I voted last year to transition and bring our 
troops home over a period of time. But the majority of the American 
people sent a clear message this last November. They said the 
President's plan for the Iraq war has failed. The American people 
elected the Senate and this Congress to change the course in Iraq. It 
is about time we started listening because it is clear the President 
has not. He didn't listen to his generals. He didn't listen to the Iraq 
Study Group. He didn't listen to anyone who disagreed with him. And he 
certainly has not listened to the American people. That is the only 
explanation for an Iraq plan that is simply more of the same.

As one of the witnesses before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
said:




 When you're in a hole, stop digging.


The President's escalation plan will not work. Look at the news over 
the past few days as the first wave of the new escalation troops has 
arrived. At least 130 people were killed and over 300 wounded on 
Sunday, in the deadliest single bomb blast since the U.S. invasion 
almost 4 years ago. The U.S. military tells us that the four U.S. 
helicopters that have crashed in the past 2 weeks were actually shot 
down, with a fifth one down today. And Iraqi insurgents are using new 
tactics to shoot down our helicopters. The Brookings Institute says the 
number of daily attacks by insurgents and militias has gone from 
approximately 32 in November of 2003 to 185 in November of 2006, with 
Iraqi civilian deaths going from 1,250 to 4,000 in that same period.

Michael O'Hanlon, an expert from Brookings, said that Iraq has become 
''one of the 3 or 4 most violent places on earth.'' And this escalation 
and violence has happened while U.S. troops were there and in spite of 
previous U.S. troop surges. You only have to look to the past to see 
that the President's escalation plan will not work. In fact, this 
escalation plan is based on false assumptions and failed ideas.

To quote one of the witnesses who testified before the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee recently:




 This plan is just stay-the-course plus 20,000 troops.


The escalation plan will not work because it depends on Prime 
Minister Maliki to do the right thing. The Associated Press reported 
today that the ''long-awaited security drive'' is underway. ''The 
implementation of the prime minister's plan has already begun,'' said a 
military spokesman. Yet even the architect of the escalation plan for 
the administration, General Keane, told the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee that he doesn't know if we can count on the Prime Minister, 
and he admits that Prime Minister Maliki is an unknown quantity.

I don't know and certainly don't believe that we should put the lives 
of the sons and daughters of America on the line based on the hope--the 
hope--that Maliki will do the right thing. The escalation plan will not 
work because it depends upon Iraqis, we are told by the administration, 
to take the lead. The administration keeps saying that is an Iraqi 
plan, with the Iraqis taking the lead. But the truth is, everyone 
doubts that the Iraqi troops will actually show up.

Many of the troops Prime Minister Maliki promised will be Kurds. Yet 
an NPR story quotes General Dennis Chapman, who is commander of a team 
of American military advisers in Iraqi Kurdistan, saying that there 
have already been desertions from Kurdish troops and that out of the 
battalion of 1,600 Kurdish soldiers going to Baghdad, he only expects a 
few hundred to report for duty.

Over and over again, we heard from experts testifying before the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee that there simply aren't enough 
Iraqi troops who are loyal to Iraq as a nation and to Maliki as Prime 
Minister.

A recent New York Times article painted a frightening picture of what 
a joint American-Iraqi patrol looks like. The article highlights the 
lack of troop strength and training of Iraqi forces and the confusion 
that comes with having underprepared Iraqi troops take the lead. To 
quote from the article:





. . . As the sun rose, many of the Iraqi Army units who 


 were supposed to do the actual searches of the buildings did 


 not arrive on time, forcing the Americans to start the job on 


 their own. When the Iraqi units finally did show up, it was 


 with the air of a class outing, cheering and laughing as the 


 Americans blew locks off doors with shotguns . . .



 Many of the Iraqi units who showed up late never seemed to 


 take the task seriously, searching haphazardly, rifling 


 through personal CD collections in the apartments.


In the article, a lieutenant colonel of the Third Stryker Brigade 
Combat Team talked about the difficulty of conducting such operations. 
He said:




 This was an Iraqi-led effort and with that come challenges 


 and risks. It can be organized chaos.


The escalation plan will not work because similar escalation plans 
have already failed in Iraq, when the enemy simply waited us out. We 
tried a troop escalation and it didn't work, when we sent 12,000 troops 
to Baghdad last summer and death and violence on the streets of Baghdad 
actually increased. The escalation plan will not work because it has 
benchmarks but no consequences. And benchmarks without consequences are 
just aspirations. The plan doesn't hold the Iraqis accountable. We have 
seen countless plans from this administration with benchmarks after 
benchmarks that are never met.

The Iraq Study Group said, in recommendation 21, that if the Iraqi 
Government doesn't make progress toward milestones, ''the United States 
should reduce its political, military, or economic support for the 
Iraqi government.''

Yet when I asked Secretary Rice what would happen if the Iraqis 
failed to meet the much-heralded benchmarks, she didn't list any 
consequences. Instead she told me:




 I don't think you go to Plan B. You work with Plan A.


Plan A hasn't been working. I will say it again: Benchmarks without 
consequences are just aspirations. And they are aspirations that have 
failed time and time again. The escalation plan, as a consequence, will 
break the back of our National Guard and Reserves.

Let me be clear: The President's escalation plan cannot be 
implemented without using the National Guard and Reserves far beyond 
what they already have been used. There simply aren't enough troops. We 
have already seen the tours of National Guard troops extended. A week 
ago, I was informed that the New Jersey Army National Guard troops 
currently stationed in Iraq will see their tours extended by 125 days 
as result of President Bush's policy. I fully expect to see more 
extended deployments in the future.

The escalation is going to hurt our security at home by keeping those 
National Guard and Reserve troops away in Iraq. Those who return home 
leave their equipment in Iraq, resulting in severe equipment shortages 
for our National Guard at home. In fact, Larry Korb, an expert from the 
Center for American Progress, says the units returned home so depleted 
that the Marines have been referring to this phase as ''the 
postdeployment death spiral.'' That is why it is time to transition our 
mission and set a timeframe to get our troops out of Iraq.

Staying in Iraq isn't in the national interest or national security 
interest of the United States. Our troops are caught in the middle of a 
civil war they can't solve. Increasing troops will only put more of 
them directly into a sectarian Iraqi fight. Keeping our troops there or 
adding more troops is trying to solve a political problem with a 
military solution.

In one briefing, General Pace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
said: We need to get the Iraqis to love their children more than they 
hate their neighbors.

That is a powerful truism. The problem is, you don't get Iraqis to 
love


their children more than they hate their neighbors through military 
might. That is about reconciliation. It is about confidence building. 
It is about power sharing. It is about revenue sharing. It is about a 
host of other things, things that cannot be accomplished through 
military might.

Staying would only continue to empower and embolden Iran, a country 
that has turned out to be the biggest winner in our war with Iraq. Dr. 
Paul Pillar pointed out recently:




 Among the neighbors, the largest winner has been Iran. The 


 war has not only toppled the dictator who initiated an 


 earlier war that killed hundreds of thousands of Iranians; it 


 has also crippled what had been the larger regional 


 counterweight to Iranian influence. Meanwhile, the all-


 consuming preoccupation that the Iraq war has become for the 


 United States, along with the growing unpopularity of the war 


 among Americans, probably has made Iranian leaders less 


 fearful than they otherwise might have been about forceful 


 U.S. action, including military action, against Iran.


Our presence in Iraq only continues to serve as a battle cry for 
terrorists around the world. According to last year's National 
Intelligence Estimate on international terrorism, the war in Iraq has 
become ''a cause celebre'' for jihadists'' and is ''shaping a new 
generation of terrorist leaders and operatives.''

Let me be clear, because of how this war was entered into--weapons of 
mass destruction that never existed--because of how it was executed, 
there are now no good options left for us in Iraq. But I do believe the 
first steps toward stabilizing Iraq is to set a date certain for troops 
to leave. It is only by setting a date certain for our troops to leave 
that Iraqis will have to take responsibility for security in their own 
country and work out their political power struggles. Right now as much 
as they dislike us being there, we still bear the true burden for 
trying to stop the violence. The Iraqis have little incentive to work 
out their turf wars over political power as long as we are in the 
country. Iraq's political leadership will never make the hard choices, 
compromises, and negotiations necessary to achieve a government of 
national unity, as long as they believe we will stay in an endless 
occupation, in which the lives of Americans will be shed and national 
treasure will be expended.

It is only by setting a date certain for our troops to leave that 
Iraq's neighbors will start to take responsibility for ending the chaos 
inside Iraq. Right now the violence has not reached the tipping point 
to get Iraq's neighbors involved. Ultimately, it is not in their 
national security interest to have the conflict spill across their 
borders and to have Iraq disintegrate. But by setting a date certain to 
leave, we create a new incentive for Iraq's neighbors to help quell the 
violence. It is only by setting a date certain for our troops to leave 
that the international community will take a responsible role in Iraq. 
Right now the international community sees this as America's war. Once 
we make clear we will not be there permanently, they, too, will have an 
incentive to get involved and help preserve stability in a region much 
closer to Europe than the United States.

So by setting a date certain for our troops to leave, we actually 
motivate the Iraqis, Iraq's neighbors, and the international community 
to take the necessary steps to stabilize Iraq.

But setting a date certain and getting our troops out of Iraq in a 
safe and orderly way is not enough. I believe we must do more.

What we need now is a surge in diplomacy. That will involve much more 
than a few trips to the region. We must actively engage with Iraq's 
neighbors in the international community.

But I cannot close without discussing the cost of this war in Iraq. 
Some say they want to have a talk about, or votes, not about the 
escalation but about whether there are resources for the troops. I 
think we should have a real, honest debate that will come in the budget 
process about what this war is costing. Let's have a real, honest 
debate about the administration's lack of honesty in telling the 
American people what this war costs.

Our expenditures in Iraq will saddle our Nation's finances and our 
children's future. We spend over $8 billion a month in Iraq; we spend 
$2 billion a week in Iraq; we spend $280 million every day in Iraq; we 
spend $11.5 million an hour in Iraq.

The Congress has already appropriated $379 billion for Iraq, and 
President Bush is now asking for an additional $179 billion. Yet the 
Secretary of Defense announced to the Budget Committee, on which I 
serve, that he is not going to come before the committee to justify 
this spending. To me, that is simply outrageous.

The Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction released a new 
report saying the Bush administration cannot account for critical 
defense materiel, including over $36 million in weapons. Hearings in 
the other body revealed that the administration cannot account for over 
$8 billion that was sent in cash bundles of $400,000 into a war region, 
without any controls. They cannot account for over $8 billion. Now the 
administration wants the Congress to hand over another blank check.

Let me put our Iraq spending into perspective.

For what we spend in less than 2 months for operations in Iraq, we 
could fully fund No Child Left Behind next year, ensuring that every 
school district in the United States has the funds promised to them to 
meet the goals of the law.

For what we spend in less than 2 months in Iraq, we could make up the 
shortfall in the SCHIP program to help cover children who would 
otherwise be uninsured.

For what we spend in 4 days in Iraq, we could substantially improve 
security at our Nation's ports with an additional billion dollars, 
including increased scanning of cargo containers.

For what we spend in 2/1/2/ months in Iraq, we could pay the $21 
billion cost of implementing all of the remaining 9/11 Commission 
recommendations to secure our homeland.

Yet we need to look beyond the economic costs of this war at its true 
cost: 3,099 American lives, to date. That is invaluable. It is 
priceless. More will die in the days ahead if we do not change the 
course in Iraq. We now have more than 23,000 sons and daughters of 
America who are wounded in ways that will affect their lives forever. 
We have a real obligation to all of those who are wounded and their 
families, and to the survivors of those who suffered the ultimate 
sacrifice. Yet we look at a budget that does not meet that 
responsibility.

Today, we should be debating the President's escalation plan, 
particularly since we recently learned from the CBO that the escalation 
proposed by President Bush would easily cost more than triple what the 
administration has told us.

Let me be clear for those who may have not heard about the 
Congressional Budget Office report. That report says the President's 
escalation plan of 21,000 troops actually only includes combat troops 
and not all of the other troops necessary for force operations. The 
Congressional Budget Office estimates this could mean an additional 
28,000 support personnel, and that the cost could go as high as $29 
billion. Now, to deviate from that would be to deviate from every 
standard operating procedure the Defense Department has had to support 
the men and women in the theater; it would be to deviate from every 
historical perspective. Yet that is not what they included in the 
budget sent to the Congress.

I am also deeply concerned that the administration has left open the 
possibility of yet another emergency supplemental to fund this war in 
fiscal year 2008. All that means is we are putting it upon the next 
generation of Americans, which is how most of the costs of this war 
have taken place--we are putting it on the backs of the next generation 
of Americans and not even being responsible for paying for it. We do 
all of this while we have the greatest tax cuts for some of the 
wealthiest people in the Nation, and at a time when the Nation is at 
war. That has never been seen before in the Nation's history.

The administration has never been honest with the American people 
about the cost of the war. It is time for that to end. This Senate must 
demand an honest accounting before we hand this administration any more 
money or, even more importantly, any more troops.

In the end, it is in honor of those men and women who have given the 
greatest sacrifice in the line of duty that we must change the course 
in Iraq. It is in honor of their courage we


must ensure their comrades are not sent off to carry out a failing plan 
designed by their civilian leadership.

I ask each of my colleagues: Are you willing to look a young soldier 
in the eye and tell them you are sending them off to Iraq based upon a 
failed policy and a recycled plan and based upon the hope that Prime 
Minister Maliki will get it right? How many more American lives will we 
lose before we realize this plan will not work? And if it were your son 
or daughter, how long would you be willing to wait? How long would you 
be willing to listen to the counsel of patience, of delay, of only one 
more chance, of stay the course?

I know I certainly am not willing to wait any longer.

I believe there is a difference between deference to the Commander in 
Chief and blind loyalty. I cannot support blind loyalty that sends more 
of America's sons and daughters to die for a war of choice, to die for 
a continuing failed policy. In my mind, that is irresponsible and I 
believe the very essence of the constitutional framework this country 
was founded on requires us to act. That is what the majority leader 
wants to do. It is time for some real profiles in courage. I urge my 
colleagues to allow us to have an up-or-down vote on the President's 
escalation, and to support the Warner-Levin resolution. I hope, beyond 
that, at a later time, to support future binding actions to stop the 
failed policy in Iraq.

I started today by reminding all of us of the words of John F. 
Kennedy and the profiles in courage he detailed in this Senate. He 
said:




 In whatever arena of life one may meet the challenge of 


 courage, whatever may be the sacrifices he faces if he 


 follows his conscience--the loss of his friends, his fortune, 


 his contentment, even the esteem of his fellow man--each man 


 [and I add each woman] must decide for himself the course he 


 will follow. The stories of past courage can define that 


 ingredient--they can teach, they can offer hope, they can 


 provide inspiration. But they cannot supply courage itself. 


 For this, each man must look into his own soul.


I ask each Member of the Senate to look into your own soul and your 
own conscience, allow us to move to the Warner-Levin resolution, allow 
us to have a vote against the escalation of troops in Iraq. The Nation 
is waiting and they are watching, and there is accountability to be 
had.

With that, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.