---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `ca0861de2a14284925458e871785ec71`
`Mr. HOLT — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this bill. We 
cannot provide a blank check to this President regarding our 
involvement in Iraq.



I've heard a lot of talk about September--that it will be clear by 
September whether or not the ''surge'' is working. I've heard these 
comments even as this week the press has reported that another, little 
publicized ''surge'' is already underway--one that when completed will 
result in some 200,000 American troops being on the ground in Iraq 
before the year is out. We know now the ''surge'' is not working.

I cannot vote to provide this President with more money to send more 
troops to try to quell Iraq's civil war. I remind my colleagues that in 
less than a month's time, Iraq's parliament is going to adjourn for 
most of the summer, taking a two month vacation while American kids are 
left to dodge sniper fire and IEDs. Where are the Iraqi security 
forces? What happened to ''As they stand up, we'll stand down?''

This month, the Defense Department reported a total of 337,000 Iraqi 
police and soldiers had been trained and equipped. They now outnumber 
our troops by two to one. Yet the administration has repeatedly refused 
to give the House Armed Services Committee information on the training 
program for Iraqi security forces and how their unit readiness is 
assessed. I suspect Secretary Gates is holding back those answers 
because he knows we're going to ask what we have bought with the money 
we have spent on Iraq's security forces--more than $15 billion. But I 
think most of us know what that $15 billion has bought us: an Iraqi 
security force that is corrupt, sectarian, infiltrated by insurgents, 
and hopelessly ineffective.

We can't keep ratifying a failed policy; that's not what the American 
people expect or need from us. I urge my colleagues to oppose the 
resolution.