---
---

# None
## `ca0a356da04ec623456266acfcfa873d`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. To my dear friend from Wisconsin, Russ Feingold, I 
appreciate his passion. I know he is acting on his beliefs. We need 
more of that. I disagree with him fairly dramatically about the 
consequences of his proposal. As I understand it, it would stop funding 
in many areas of military operations that are ongoing in Iraq now and, 
by using funding, restrict the mission in a way that would be ill-
advised for our own national security interests.

The biggest winner of a change in mission through restricted funding 
would be Iran. The Iranian regime is actively involved in trying to 
kill American servicemembers to drive us out. Their biggest fear in 
Iran is to have a functional democratic representative government in 
Iraq on their border that would create problems for the way they run 
their own country. They are not going to stand on the sideline and 
watch Iraq be transformed into a representative form of government 
without a fight. They have chosen to be involved in militia groups with 
the goal of killing Americans. The goal is to create casualties and 
break the will of the American people so we will leave Iraq.

In terms of al-Qaida, the biggest loser of the surge militarily has 
been al-Qaida. They have been diminished because of a new way of 
confronting this enemy where we get out behind the walls. We live with 
the Iraqi Army and police forces. We are taking the fight to al-Qaida, 
and we have been able to marginalize and diminish their presence.

This amendment would embolden an enemy that is literally on the mat. 
It would send the wrong message to Iran at a time when they need to 
hear something different than America is going to leave. They need to 
hear the message that America is going to stand behind the forces in 
Iraq to create a stable Iraq. The last thing this Congress should do is 
create a change in mission through funding that will undercut an 
operation that has produced results on the security front never known 
before.

Under the rules of engagement, how do you determine who al-Qaida is 
with any certainty over there?

So the idea of restricting the military mission against the advice of 
General Petraeus seems to me to be ill-advised. The Congress has a 
robust role in time of war. But at the end of the day, we have to make 
a decision: Whose advice are we going to follow in terms of military 
strategy: General Petraeus and his colleagues or are we going to try to 
rewrite the mission based on what we think is best on the ground 
militarily?

I think it would be a huge mistake for this Congress to adopt this 
amendment because it would be welcome news in Tehran. It would be seen 
by a very oppressive regime that, America is going to leave Iraq, and 
they would be the big beneficiary of what would be left behind, which 
would be a chaotic situation.

Does Iran want chaos in Iraq? To some extent. Does Iran want a 
representative government in Iraq? Absolutely not. They are going to do 
everything within their power to make sure that does not happen. It is 
in our national security interest to make sure it does.

Al-Qaida has been diminished greatly from the surge. If this 
amendment was adopted, it would be cheered on by al-Qaida operatives--
we are back in the fight because we know when America is going to 
leave. We know when the mission is going to be changed.

So I would argue this amendment comes at the worst possible time for 
American national security interests, and it is ill-advised in concept 
and impossible to execute.

I urge a ''no'' vote.