---
---

# RECOGNIZING MILITARY MEDICAL AND AIR CREWS
## `ca0c6b23602fb393b7799486723e1295`
`Mr. THOMPSON of California — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
House Resolution 1605, which recognizes the service of medical and air 
crews in helping our wounded warriors make the expeditious and safe 
trip home to the United States and commends the personnel of the Air 
Force for their commitment to the well-being of all our service men and 
women.

The Air Force's Aeromedical Evacuation Squadrons help guarantee that 
our wounded soldiers are quickly reunited with their families and given 
the best medical care in U.S. hospitals. Since September 11, 2001, 
Aeromedical Evacuation flights have been responsible for transporting 
over 81,000 patients from Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation 
Iraqi Freedom, yielding a 98 percent survival rate for injured 
soldiers. Today, a soldier injured on the battlefield in Afghanistan or 
Iraq will be back in an American hospital in an average of three days. 
This is over seven days faster than during Operation Desert Storm and 
over 40 days quicker than during the conflict in Vietnam.

As a veteran who was wounded in Vietnam, I was flown into Travis Air 
Force Base in Northern California. Travis Air Force Base is now home to 
the 349th Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron. These physicians, nurses and 
medical technicians go above and beyond the call of duty every day.

I am honored to bring this resolution to the floor and remain 
committed to supporting our Armed Forces.
