# HONORING 111TH FIGHTER WING
## `ca107890a7bc18ca25d7889ce56939c7`
`Ms. SCHWARTZ — 20 July 2010`

---


Ms. SCHWARTZ. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I rise today to honor the service and the commitment of the 
Pennsylvania National Guard 111th Fighter Wing. Their bravery and 
sacrifice over the years has helped to ensure our Nation's safety and 
freedom.

Originally growing out of the sod fields of the Philadelphia airport 
in 1924, the squad was first called to active service in February of 
1941 to perform antisubmarine patrols off the coast of New England. The 
squad saw a lot of action during World War II. In 1943, they deployed 
and performed support operations in the China-Burma-India theater of 
combat. The same year, they earned the Distinguished Unit Citation for 
their execution of ground attack missions in France and the low 
countries in advance of the invasion of Normandy and in Germany for 
their support in the aftermath of the Battle of the Bulge.

Members of the 111th honorably served in support of the U.S. war 
efforts during both the Korean and Vietnam wars. In 1963, the 111th 
ended their 39-year history at the Philadelphia airport and relocated 
to the Willow Grove Naval Air Station now in my district.

In 1995 and 1999, they performed combat operations in support of 
Operation Southern Watch. Immediately following the attacks of 
September 11, 2001, the 111th Fighter Wing deployed on very short 
notice to support our joint combat operations for Operation Enduring 
Freedom.

In 2002 and 2003, the wing was the lead unit on short notice, 
voluntary, out-of-cycle air expeditionary force deployments to Bagram 
Air Force Base in Afghanistan.

In 2003, they volunteered for deployment yet again, this time in 
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. So outstanding was their service 
during this period that they earned the Air Force Outstanding Unit 
Award, with Valor, for voluntarily deploying to austere bases in two 
separate combat operations within a 5-month period.

It has been my honor to represent the 111th Fighter Wing as a Member 
of Congress. Though the latest round of BRAC decisions removed the 
squad's fighter mission, they will remain stationed at Willow Grove, 
Pennsylvania, and will undoubtedly continue to serve our Nation.

To quote the resolution before us, ''Members of the 111th Fighter 
Wing of the Pennsylvania National Guard have served with courage, 
selflessness, and compassion in every role that they have been asked to 
fulfill and have earned the respect and gratitude of the citizens of 
Pennsylvania and of all Americans.''

I appreciate the bipartisan support for Resolution 1411 and thank the 
members of the 111th Fighter Wing--I have met many of them--who 
currently serve in the 111th Fighter Wing, for the dedication, honor, 
service, and sacrifice to this country.