---
---

# THIRTY-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `ca1698fba14e794c3a60380ff8621540`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Here's the issue. The President is now saying, I 
am going to veto the emergency supplemental bill for Iraq and 
Afghanistan and for our veterans. I'm going to veto it.

That is something he has never said before, Mr. Speaker. All the 
while all of this debt was being built up on the future generations of 
Americans and our children and grandchildren that are children of 
Republicans and Democrats and Independents and those who are thinking 
about voting, the President never once said I am going to veto it.

As a matter of fact, every bill that was passed in the rubber-stamp 
Congress, the President was saying, I'll sign it. I am going to sign 
that bill. Record spending, I am going to sign that one.

Mr. President, that bill will run the debt up. We will have to borrow 
money from foreign nations, some that we have issues with. I'm going to 
sign it.

As a matter of fact, he signed so many bills, can I have another pen? 
I ran out of ink.

Now to say I am going to veto something that has accountability 
measures in it, the problem is not additional dollars for the emergency 
needs of Americans, the problem is the fact that the Congress has said, 
after 4, now 5 years in Iraq, that we are no longer going to be the 
say-nothing, hear-nothing, do-nothing Congress, that we are going to 
have a say in it, and we are sitting here and federalized by the people 
of the United States of America to make sure that they have a voice and 
we have accountability.