---
---

# COMMENDING AGRI-BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT TEAMS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD FOR  THEIR EFFORTS IN WAR-TORN COUNTRIES
## `ca1ad86b8205a5f907f442543b50ba3a`
`Mr. POE of Texas — 20 March 2010`

---


Mr. POE of Texas. I appreciate the gentleman yielding.

I totally support H. Res. 1075 and the support of the National Guard 
and the Agri-business Development Teams.

The National Guard is doing a phenomenal job in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The chairman could give me the exact number, but I don't know the 
percentage of the National Guard troops that are in Afghanistan, but 
it's extremely high. We count on the citizen soldiers to help us in 
times of war, and they are there not just from the State of Missouri 
but from the State of Texas as well.

And I had a chance to be with some National Guard troops in 
Afghanistan during the Christmas season. They're doing a phenomenal 
business in helping those Afghans change from growing poppies that is 
turned into cocaine and heroin that is sold primarily in Europe and 
teaching them to farm wheat and soybeans. In fact, Texas A&M University 
has developed some type of soybean that yields ninefold what a typical 
soybean yields, and they are being planted in Afghanistan so that 
farmers can sell legitimate crops on the open market.

This bill is an important bill because it recognizes our National 
Guard, but also this bill is a bipartisan bill. It is supported by both 
sides. And legislation in this House, to be successful, should be 
supported by both sides, unlike the health care bill that we're going 
to vote on tomorrow afternoon. It's only supported by a portion of one 
side with no input from the others. And I think that we should have a 
bipartisan vote in support of the health care bill as well, which, 
unfortunately, we are not.