# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `ca1d1d43e0d4cb429d78f05e48274480`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Chairman, traumatic brain injury is one of the 
signature wounds of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and there is much 
to be accomplished. For the estimated 320,000 soldiers who have 
sustained a brain injury, the war will not end when the last shots are 
fired. For this reason, I applaud the committee for its work to make 
progress in treating veterans with TBI.

As co-chair of the Congressional Brain Injury Task Force, I am proud 
to say that we have accomplished a lot over the past year in honoring 
our commitment to soldiers and veterans with brain injuries. The 
Defense Center of Excellence for Psychological Health and Traumatic 
Brain Injury opened its doors in November. The FY 2008 Defense 
Authorization established new TBI programs for rehabilitation, 
reintegration, research, and civilian-military cooperation. We 
reauthorized the Traumatic Brain Injury Act in April, establishing new 
connections between HHS, the Department of Defense, and the VA. And now 
this month, all soldiers will begin to receive pre-deployment cognitive 
assessments establishing individual baselines against which each 
soldier can be properly screened for a brain injury so that they may 
receive the care that they need and deserve.

In this bill, the committee has recognized the need to improve care 
for veterans with TBI by fostering cooperation between DOD and VA 
through joint programs, by improving the ability to track patients 
diagnosed with TBI, and by encouraging systemic TBI screening for 
veterans. New research is, however, showing that there is considerable 
overlap in the occurrence of brain injury and mental health conditions 
like post-traumatic stress disorder. In fact, the Rand Corp. recently 
estimated that as many as 27 percent of soldiers with PTSD and 
depression have also sustained a brain injury.

In light of these disturbing figures, Mr. Chairman, would you be 
willing to work in the Conference with the Senate on language to 
recognize the relationship between and co-occurrence of TBI and PTSD 
among our armed services?

I want to thank the gentleman from Texas and his staff for working so 
hard on this legislation and making a commitment to our injured 
veterans. Our soldiers have fulfilled their duties bravely and 
honorably, and they deserve nothing less than treatment and care that 
is commensurate with the heroic deeds they have undertaken.