# VETERANS' BENEFITS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2008
## `ca2780b66fc73897df6640e4be35c9bc`
`Mr. BURR — 16 September 2008`

---


Mr. BURR. Mr. President, as ranking member of the Senate Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs, I rise today to express my support for S. 3023, the 
Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2008. This veterans' benefits 
omnibus bill will make a wide assortment of improvements to benefits 
programs for veterans.

I commend Chairman Akaka for his efforts in crafting this committee 
bill which reflects the bipartisan work of almost every member of our 
committee and over 30 other Senators. The result of our work is a bill 
with 35 provisions touching on education, vocational rehabilitation, 
employment, housing, compensation, insurance, memorial affairs, and 
other issues.

Among many other valuable provisions, this bill includes an education 
benefit that draws its inspiration from a North Carolinian who has 
become one of the foremost advocates of the needs of severely injured 
servicemen and women and their families. Sarah Wade, spouse of Ted 
Wade, an Iraq war veteran who lost his right arm and has battled the 
effects of severe traumatic brain injury after an explosive detonated 
under his Humvee in 2004, has


been at her husband's side as a primary caregiver from the beginning. 
She quit her job to take care of Ted and has doggedly ensured that he 
receives the highest quality of care. It is likely that her intensive 
involvement in Ted's ongoing recovery will last for several more years.

Sarah's effort on behalf of her husband leaves little time for 
herself. Sarah would one day like to go to school. Although VA provides 
an educational assistance benefit for the spouses of totally disabled 
veterans and servicemembers, the law requires that the benefit be used 
within 10 years of the date the veteran receives a total disability 
rating. For a spouse like Sarah Wade, there is next to no time to take 
advantage of this benefit within that timeframe. The recovery period 
for a TBI-afflicted veteran--the very period that Ted needs Sarah the 
most--simply precludes her from pursuing that option.

In recognition of hundreds of spouses like Sarah, the Veterans' 
Benefits Improvement Act of 2008 would extend from 10 to 20 years the 
period within which certain spouses of severely disabled veterans could 
use their education benefits. That longer window will allow Sarah and 
others to focus on their first priority, the care of their injured 
spouses, while giving them some flexibility to pursue their educational 
goals later on. This provision is simply the right thing to do.

Another provision that I would like to discuss is one that would 
require human resource specialists in the Federal executive branch to 
receive training on the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment 
Rights Act or USERRA. This law provides a wide range of employment 
protections to veterans, future and current members of the Armed 
Forces, and Guard and Reserve members.

More than 60 years ago Congress recognized that those who serve our 
country in a time of need should be entitled to resume their civilian 
jobs when they return home. After Congress passed the first law 
providing reemployment rights to servicemen and women in 1940, 
President Roosevelt said these rights were part of ''the special 
benefits which are due to the members of our armed forces--for they 
'have been compelled to make greater economic sacrifice and every other 
kind of sacrifice than the rest of us.' ''

As we all know, the sacrifices by this generation of servicemen and 
women are just as profound. In North Carolina alone, we have over 1,000 
members of the Guard and Reserves currently deployed, and more than 
45,000 members of the Guard and Reserves have deployed since the 
beginning of the War on Terror. Many left behind not only family and 
friends, but valued civilian careers.

For them, the modern reemployment law, the Uniformed Services 
Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, requires that they be given 
their jobs back when they return home. It also requires that they 
receive all the benefits and seniority that would have accumulated 
during their absence.

While every employer should strive to meet or exceed the requirements 
of USERRA, Congress has stressed that ''the Federal Government should 
be a model employer'' when it comes to complying with this law. In my 
view, this means the Federal Government should make sure that not a 
single returning servicemember is denied proper reinstatement to a 
Federal job. But unfortunately, this is not happening yet.

At a hearing last year, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs learned 
that the Federal executive branch continues to violate this law. Worse, 
these violations are often the result of lack of understanding or 
knowledge about what the law requires. In fact, the Assistant Secretary 
for Veterans' Employment and Training of the U.S. Department of Labor 
testified at our hearing that ''about half' of Federal USERRA cases 
occur because ''the Federal hiring manager just doesn't understand the 
law or the . . . regulations that spell out how to implement the law.''

Based on that, it seems clear that we need to do more to prevent 
these USERRA violations from occurring in the first place. We owe 
nothing less to those who have served and sacrificed so much for our 
nation. That is why I have championed this provision to require the 
head of each Federal executive agency to provide training for their 
human resources personnel on the rights, benefits, and obligations 
under USERRA. I am very pleased that this provision was included in the 
omnibus bill and hope it will soon become law.

The Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2008 also includes a 
provision that would require VA to provide Congress with a plan for 
updating its disability rating schedule and a timeline for when changes 
will be made. This rating schedule--which is the cornerstone of the 
entire VA claims processing system--was developed in the early 1900s 
and about 35 percent of it has not been updated since 1945. It is 
riddled with outdated criteria that do not track with modern medicine. 
Take for example traumatic arthritis. The rating schedule requires a 
veteran to show proof of this condition through x-ray evidence. But 
doctors today would generally diagnose the condition using more modern 
technology, like an MRI.

Even worse, experts have been telling us the rating schedule is not 
adequate for rating conditions like post-traumatic stress disorder and 
traumatic brain injury, which are afflicting so many of our veterans 
from the War on Terror. Also, experts have told us that the schedule 
does not adequately compensate young, severely disabled veterans; 
veterans with mental disabilities; and veterans who are unemployable.

To address this situation, VA has been conducting studies on the 
appropriate level of disability compensation to account for any loss of 
earning capacity and any loss of qualify of life caused by service-
related disabilities. To make sure these studies don't get put on a 
shelf to collect dust--as has happened in the past--this bill would 
require VA to submit to Congress a report outlining the findings and 
recommendations of those studies, a list of the actions that VA plans 
to take in response, and a timeline for when VA plans to take those 
actions. My hope is that this will finally prompt the type of complete 
update that the VA rating schedule has needed for so long.

These are only a few of the 35 items in this bill. I am confident 
that each of the bill's provisions will improve the lives of and 
veterans, even if only in a small way. My hope is that these 
provisions, and others, will be passed by both Houses before Congress 
leaves for the year. I ask my colleagues for their support as Chairman 
Akaka and I work to make sure that happens.