# IMPLEMENTING THE 9/11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS ACT OF 2007
## `ca28a7fb9706b7526f728793a5e846dc`
`Mr. NADLER — 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, for the last 4 years I have worked to ensure 
that no shipping container should be put on a ship bound for the United 
States until it is scanned for radiation and density, and sealed with a 
tamper-proof seal. The 9/11 Commission insisted on better port security 
measures.

Last year, along with Mr. Oberstar, I introduced the Sail Only if 
Scanned Act. We tried to insert into the SAFE Port Act, but the 
Republican leadership opposed this provision with near party-line votes 
in committee and on the floor.

But now, Title V of this bill will implement the Sail Only if Scanned 
Act, and require that every container be scanned and sealed with a 
tamper-proof seal before being placed on a ship bound for the U.S. We 
phase in the requirement, within 3 years for large ports, 5 years for 
small. But it must be done.

We must be serious about protecting ourselves against the terrorists. 
Studies are not enough. This bill finally takes the threat seriously.

The cost to scan each container is only about $6.50. The startup cost 
to purchase and install the scanning equipment world wide is about $1.5 
billion. Foreign ports can recover the cost by charging about $20 per 
container. Given the fact that it costs about $4,000 to ship a 
container from Asia to the United States and a container might hold 
$50,000 or $100,000 worth of goods, that is a drop in the bucket.

This bill also includes critical provisions to strengthen aviation 
security, to distribute homeland security grants based on risk, and it 
will strengthen the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program to secure 
nuclear materials in the former Soviet Union. For years, some of us 
have been pushing to accelerate counter-proliferation programs. This 
bill will go a long way toward securing loose nuclear materials around 
the world.

I congratulate the new leadership of this House for pressing this 
bill. I urge all my colleagues to vote for this and finally implement 
the key recommendations of the 9/11 Commission and make this country 
safer.

Madam. Speaker, for the last four years, I have worked to insure that 
no shipping container should be put on a ship bound for the U.S. until 
it is scanned for radiation and density, and sealed with a tamper-proof 
seal. The 9/11 Commission insisted on better port security measures.

Last year, along with Chairman Oberstar, I introduced the Sail Only 
if Scanned (SOS) Act. We then tried to insert it into the SAFE Port 
Act. Unfortunately, the Republican leadership opposed this provision, 
with near party-line votes in committee and on the floor.

But now, Title V of this bill will implement the Sail Only if Scanned 
Act, and require that every container be scanned and sealed with a 
tamper-proof seal before being placed on a ship bound for the U.S. We 
phase in the requirement--within three years for large ports, five 
years for small. But it must be done.

We know our port security system is vulnerable. The 9/11 Commission 
said the opportunities to do harm are as great, or greater, in maritime 
transportation than in our aviation system.

Luckily, the Democratic Leadership is willing to follow through on 
our promise to scan 100 percent of shipping containers so that we can 
prevent nuclear weapons from being smuggled into the United States 
through our ports. We recognize that it is time for Congress to catch 
up to the rest of the World. In Hong Kong, the Integrated Container 
Inspection System (ICIS) pilot program has successfully achieved 100 
percent scanning, proving that the technology works without slowing 
down commerce. Many other ports are already starting to purchase this 
equipment, and many in the shipping industry realize that it is in 
their best interest to secure their cargo before, 
G-d forbid, someone uses our ports to cause harm, and the system has to 
be completely shut down.

We must be serious about protecting ourselves against the terrorists. 
Studies are not enough. This bill, finally takes the threat seriously.

The cost to institute this system is minimal. It could be folded into 
the cost of doing business and the consumer would never even notice. 
The cost to scan each container is only about $6.50. The startup cost 
to purchase and install the scanning equipment worldwide is about $1.5 
billion. Foreign ports can recover the cost by charging about $20 per 
container. This is a drop in the bucket given that it costs about 
$4,000 to ship a container from Asia to the United States, and that 
container might hold $50,000-$100,000 or more worth of goods. We waste 
billions of dollars in Iraq and on other Defense Programs, such as 
''Star Wars,'' but we can protect ourselves against this very real 
threat to our port security system with virtually no cost to the U.S. 
Government.

We must not wait to impose security measures until containers reach 
the United States.


If there is a bomb inside a container, and it is detected in Newark, or 
Miami, or Los Angeles, it may be too late. Reading the cargo manifest 
is not enough. Trusting the shippers is not enough. We must verify the 
contents of the containers at the point of origin, before they are 
loaded onto a ship destined for America. This bill will do just that.

This bill also includes critical provisions to strengthen aviation 
security, to distribute homeland security grants based on risk, and it 
will strengthen the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program to secure 
nuclear materials in the former Soviet Union. For years, I have been 
pushing to accelerate counter proliferation programs, and this bill 
will go a long way toward securing loose nuclear materials around the 
world.

I urge all my colleagues to vote for H.R. 1 and finally implement all 
of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission.