# None
## `ca2bbffab766ac17f9ad571ba8996a00`
`Mr. HODES — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Well, I thank my friend from Connecticut and my friend 
from Pennsylvania for being here. You know, I'm on the something side 
of 30, but we are all new Members here tonight. And we came here, in 
large part, because the American people are way ahead of the 
politicians in this country. And the American people have had it with 
this exercise in Iraq. In overwhelming numbers, they, in their wisdom, 
have had it, and they spoke loud and clear to that in November of this 
year and that, in large part, is why we, and many of our colleagues, 
are now privileged to serve in the House of Representatives.

And what we have done today in passing the Iraq accountability bill 
is truly historic. And it started here in the House; it went to the 
Senate through the wisdom of our founders. There was a conference of 
House and Senate leaders. The bill came back here in slightly altered 
form. And now, as we sit here tonight, speaking about this bill, it's 
on its way to the desk of the President of the United States. And the 
President of the United States has a choice to make about the direction 
of this country. He, now, has a choice to make. He has a choice to make 
about supporting the troops. He has a choice to make about holding the 
Iraqis accountable, as he said he was going to do. He has a choice to 
make about supporting our veterans. He has a choice to make about 
supporting our wounded, whose care has been a disgrace, as many of us 
have seen. The President of the United States has these choices to 
make.

Now, we have had a lot of rhetoric in the chamber today, and our 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle called this shameful. They 
accused us of weakening America. They essentially questioned our 
patriotism. They said we didn't support the troops, and that is 
poppycock. It's disinformation. It's not true.

We all, whether we are Democrats or Republicans, and I know this is 
true of the people in this country, care deeply about this country. And 
what we want to see is an America with real strength that is protecting 
the real security of the American people, and that is leading the 
world, as we once did, as the most credible of nations, as the nation 
which, in World War II, stood up to lead the fight against fascism, and 
then had the courage to put Nazis on public trial in the Nuremberg war 
trials because we were strong enough to have a transparent due process 
system. We weren't afraid. And we shouldn't be afraid in resolving this 
conflict in Iraq, in acting with the real strength that means real 
security.

Now, our brave troops have done everything that we've asked of them. 
They fought through an invasion, and after that, it was an ill advised 
invasion, but then, through the incompetence and mismanagement of this 
administration, they have been left in the quagmire of a civil war.

And I want to turn now to the words of somebody with far more 
military experience than me, to talk about the effect of what we have 
done here in the Congress tonight. Major General John Batiste, United 
States Army Retired, said, this important legislation sets a new 
direction for Iraq. It acknowledges that America went to war without 
mobilizing the Nation, that our strategy in Iraq has been tragically 
flawed since the invasion in March 2003, that our Army and Marine Corps 
are at the breaking point with little to show for it, and that our 
military, alone, will never establish representative government in 
Iraq. And Major General John Batiste said, the administration got it 
terribly wrong. And I applaud our Congress for stepping up to their 
constitutional responsibilities because this Congress, as Major General 
John Batiste has recognized, unlike the rubber stamp Congresses that 
have preceded us for years now, is finally the accountability Congress. 
We are holding our government accountable by passing the Iraq 
accountability act, which forces the Iraqi government to take 
responsibility for their own stability.

We are into the fifth year of this war. Hundreds of billions of 
dollars, and still, no progress on reforming the Constitution.

What about reconciliation? What about all the ministries in the Iraqi 
government fighting amongst themselves? What about the Sunni/Shia 
divide that al-Maliki does not seem to want to face and deal with? The 
Sunnis and Shiites killing each other, and our troops in the middle of 
it.

So we hold our government accountable to our troops, to our returning 
soldiers and our veterans. This accountability Congress has held 
oversight hearings to investigate government mismanagement and 
corruption in Iraq. We found, for instance, in oversight hearings, that 
this administration shipped $12 billion of cash over to Iraq without 
accounting for it, and gave it away to Iraqi ministries to use as they 
would, without ever asking for a single shred of accounting. No paper 
trail, no nothing. We're restoring accountability to contracting, 
ending the massive waste caused by no bid contracts.

And the contractors in Iraq, just so we are clear, on this, we now 
know that, in addition to the 150,000 troops, give or take, currently 
in Iraq, there are 126,000 private contractors. And as John Murtha so 
eloquently talked about the floor tonight, we've got a situation where 
our brave soldiers are standing there, they are making $25,000 a year, 
let's say they are pumping gas and doing some security details. And 
next to them there's a private contractor making $80,000 a year doing 
the same job. Some of these private contractors, we heard, are making 
$300,000 a year. That's more than any government official in the United 
States government. And you want to know where our billions and billions 
of dollars have gone.

So we're restoring some accountability to government with the Iraq 
Accountability Act tonight. We're restoring openness and transparency 
to government, to repair the fabric of our democracy that has been 
undermined in the course of this administration.

So this President does have a choice to make tonight. And I think of 
the


words of Zbigniew Brzinski, the former National Security Adviser, who 
called this war an increasingly immoral, futile exercise in 
presidential hubris, because, my friends, I'm sorry to say that the 
President of the United States has said that he's going to veto what 
Congress has passed. He is going to essentially turn his back on the 
will of the American people. He's going to go against the advice of 
retired generals in droves who've come out to talk about the reality. 
And I believe the American people are going to be disappointed in that 
veto because they want a new direction in Iraq. And that is the course 
we have set tonight. I'll kick it back now to Mr. Murphy.