---
---

# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST--H.R. 2419
## `ca2f9aad999d979d04f057c82f2f498f`
`Mr. REID — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I hope beyond all hope that we can have a 
farm bill that will be related to the substance rather than the 
procedure. It is a good bill. The committee has worked very hard on it. 
People have some problems with parts of the bill. But if we had a vote 
on the bill right now, we would get 70 votes. We are not going to be 
able to do that. People are going to come out here--and I suggest they 
are going to have to write new speeches. This has happened so many 
times, all you have to do is go to the Congressional Record and read 
what has gone on before. It doesn't matter whether it is a Democrat or 
a Republican who is majority leader, the same thing always happens when 
we are trying to get out of here.

This time we are trying to finish the work period before 
Thanksgiving. There are things we have to do. I say to my friends, do 
people really want an open process on this bill? Do we want to debate 
the war in Iraq on this bill? Do we want to debate amendments relating 
to labor issues throughout this country? I have been told those are 
some of the amendments that are going to be offered on my side. I have 
no idea what amendments the Republicans will offer, but I have kind of 
a good idea. I have see the rule XIVs in the last few weeks and the 
very mischievous amendments that have nothing to do with the farm 
bill--political amendments.

We are late in this year of Congress. We have just a few weeks left, 
and every majority leader does what I have done. I didn't invent this. 
As I said earlier this morning, I learned a lot from my Republican 
counterparts--from Senator Lott, when he was majority leader, and from 
Senator Dole. They did the same thing. I have to acknowledge that 
Senator Mitchell did it and Senator Daschle did it because it is the 
only way we can get the business of the country done.

We have had an open amendment process this year--not always but 
generally speaking. Once we got to the bills--and that has been tough--
I have had to file cloture on motions to proceed, which has been a big 
waste of time. But we have been able to work our way through many 
different things we have done.

I think we have accomplished a great deal, Mr. President. We have 
done the minimum wage; the balanced budget, pay as you go; the CR; the 
work on U.S. Attorneys; the excellent work we did on higher education, 
health care for vets, and Active-Duty servicemembers; disaster relief, 
wildfire relief, SCHIP--a lot of good things.

So I hope everyone will understand Harry Reid hasn't invented what is 
taking place on the Senate floor. I am just copying what others have 
done. Why? Out of necessity. I have told everybody this farm bill is a 
pretty good bill. It is not everything I want, but one of the 
interesting things about American farm policy is we don't import 65 to 
70 percent of our food as we do oil. Oil, we have been told, is soon 
going to go up to $4 per gallon.

Food, Mr. President, we pay too much for food. But we pay far less, 
on a proportionate basis, than any other country in the world. Why? One 
reason is the farm policy in this country. Could the farm policy be 
better? Sure. That is why we are having a bipartisan effort to change 
the underlying bill. Democrats and Republicans think it could be 
better.

Mr. President, we should move forward on this farm bill and finish 
it. We only do it every 5 years. If there are amendments that deal with 
this, I have said--and that was my consent just asked--if there are 
relevant amendments dealing with farm policy, move to change it, debate 
it, and vote on it. That is all I am asking. But I don't want to debate 
the estate tax repeal. The American people don't deserve that at this 
time. I don't want to debate another SCHIP bill that a number of 
Republicans believe is the right way to go for children's health 
because they are in such desperate shape for the vetoes the President 
has done. I have mentioned just a few things.

Mr. President, we are doing the right thing. I hope people will go to 
work on the farm bill. Both Democrats and Republicans have worked for 
months on a farm bill to get here. Do you think it was easy for 
Chairman Harkin to get a bill out of committee? No; it was difficult. 
How many meetings did he hold--private meetings--with this group or 
that group of Senators? I have no idea, but there were scores of them. 
We are at a point where we are today so that we have a farm bill that 
received overwhelming support in the


Agriculture Committee, and now it is on the Senate floor. For the 
American people, we need to do this bill.