---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ca4dc869859c98956d3f4331bb67a94a`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I 
appreciate it.

Mr. Speaker, I take to the floor today, not as a Democrat or a 
Republican, but as an Iraq war veteran who was a captain of the 82nd 
Airborne Division in Baghdad.

I speak with a heavy heart for my fellow paratrooper Specialist Chad 
Keith, Specialist James Lambert and the 17 other brave men I served 
with who never made it home.

I rise to give voice to hundreds of thousands of patriotic 
Pennsylvanians and veterans across the globe who are deeply troubled by 
the President's call to escalate the number of American troops in Iraq.

I served in Baghdad from June of 2003 to January of 2004. Walking in 
my own combat boots, I saw firsthand this administration's failed 
policy in Iraq. I led convoys up and down Ambush Alley in a Humvee 
without doors, convoys that Americans still run today because too many 
Iraqis are still sitting on the sidelines.

I served in al-Rashid, Baghdad, which, like Philadelphia, is home to 
1.5 million people. While there are 7,000 Philadelphia police officers 
serving, like my father in Philadelphia, protecting its citizens, there 
were only 3,500 of us in al-Rashid, Baghdad.

Mr. Speaker, the time for more troops was 4 years ago, but this 
President ignored military experts like General Shinseki and General 
Zinni, who, in 2003, called for several hundred thousand troops to 
secure Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, our President, again, is ignoring military leaders, 
patriots like General Colin Powell, like General Abizaid and members of 
the bipartisan Iraq Study Group who oppose this escalation.

But most importantly, Congresses in the past did not stand up to the 
President and his policies. But today I stand with my other military 
veterans, some who were just elected, like Sergeant Major Tim Walz, 
Admiral Joe Sestak and Commander Chris Carney. We stand together to 
tell this administration that we are against this escalation, and that 
Congress will no longer give the President a blank check.

Mr. Speaker, close to my heart is a small park on the corner of 24th 
and Aspen Streets in Philadelphia. This is the Patrick Ward Memorial 
Park. Patrick Ward was a door gunner in the U.S. Army during Vietnam. 
He was killed serving the country that he loved. He was the type of guy 
that neighborhoods devote street corners to and parents name their 
children after him, including my parents, Marge and Jack Murphy.

Mr. Speaker, I ask you, how many more street corner memorials are we 
going to have for this war? This is what the President's proposal does. 
It sends more of our best and bravest to die refereeing a civil war. 
Just a month ago, Sergeant Jae Moon from my district in Levittown, 
Bucks County, was killed in Iraq.

You know, a few blocks away from this great Chamber, when you walk in 
the snow, is the Vietnam Memorial, where half the soldiers listed on 
that wall died after America's leaders knew our strategy would not 
work. It was immoral then, and it would be immoral now to engage in the 
same delusion. That is why sending more troops in the civil war is the 
wrong strategy.

We need to win the war on terror, and reasonable people may disagree 
on what to do, but most will agree that it is immoral to send young 
Americans to fight and die in a conflict without a real strategy for 
success. The President's current course is not resolute, it is 
reckless. That is why I will vote to send a message to our President 
that staying the course is no longer an option.

Mr. Speaker, it is time for a new direction in Iraq. From my time 
serving with the 82nd Airborne Division in Iraq, it became clear that 
in order to succeed there, you must tell the Iraqis that we will not be 
there forever. Yet, 3 years now since I have been home, it is still 
Americans leading convoys up and down Ambush Alley and securing Iraqi 
street corners. We must make the Iraqis stand up for Iraq and set a 
timeline to start bringing our heroes home.

That is why I am proud to be an original cosponsor, with Senator 
Barack Obama and fellow paratrooper, Congressman Mike Thompson, of the 
Iraq De-escalation Act, a moderate and responsible plan to start 
bringing our troops home, mandating a surge in diplomacy and refocusing 
our efforts on the war on terror and Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, our country needs a real plan to get our troops out of 
Iraq, to protect our homeland and to secure and refocus our efforts on 
capturing and killing Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda. There are over 
130,000 American servicemen and women serving bravely in Iraq. 
Unfortunately, thousands more are on the way. An open-ended strategy 
that ends in more faceless roadside bombs in Baghdad and more street-
corner memorials in America is not one that I will support.