---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS LENDING FUND ACT OF 2010
## `ca5ebed0a6a3e4cf4d93ad5f862500b3`
`Mr. CASEY — 28 July 2010`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise this morning to talk about the 
United States strategy in Afghanistan. However troubling the recent 
leak of classified documents, the topics discussed in those documents 
confirm some of the difficulty we face as a country today in 
Afghanistan.

Much of what was reported in the newspapers the last couple of days 
is, frankly, not news, but a review of what we already knew, that 
corruption continues to plague the Afghan Government, the performance 
of the Afghan National Army and police is uneven and at times 
problematic, and the Taliban have been emboldened in recent years.

As I said, this is all information we knew. It might have more 
details about it, some more reliable than others. But the release of 
these documents should, at the same time, help to sharpen our focus on 
all of those issues and more, and ask the tough questions, as is our 
responsibility in the Senate in a time of war.

This year, 2010, has already been the deadliest year on record in 
Afghanistan. We have new military leadership on the ground, General 
Petraeus, and assurances from the administration that civil-military 
relations are strong. Two weeks ago, Ambassador Holbrook appeared 
before the Foreign Relations Committee where he described the civilian 
component of our engagement in Afghanistan.

Our regular reports from the administration are instructive and do 
indeed show that we are making progress in some areas. But the overall 
picture is not encouraging. Casualties are up. Fifty-three 
servicemembers from Pennsylvania have lost their lives in Afghanistan. 
And, by way of comparison, in Iraq over the course of that battle, that 
war and the battles that were part of it, Pennsylvania has had 196 
killed in action. So when we get above 50 Pennsylvanians killed in 
action, that is getting very high.

Of course, casualties mean both those who have been killed and those 
who have been wounded. So the 53 from Pennsylvania I mentioned are 
killed in action. We have many more who have been wounded. Our troops 
continue to be plagued by the threats posed by IEDs, improvised 
explosive devices, something I have been continually raising with the 
administration and others and will continue to do this until the threat 
to our servicemembers ends or is sharply reduced.

Unfortunately, we have a problem which is not just the IED itself but 
the ammonium nitrate, which is the most significant ingredient, which, 
as everyone knows, is a fertilizer which is used across the region and 
in other parts of the world as well. But that ammonium nitrate is both 
the main and most potent ingredient, and its inflow from Pakistan is 
still a huge problem. We are working to address this proliferation and 
the transport of this deadly material in the region. We are also 
working closely with the Government of Pakistan to address this threat.

But today I wish to review what I see as three main areas of our 
involvement in Afghanistan. The three we have talked about over and 
over here in the Senate are: security, governance, and development.

First, the most significant issue for many Americans is the basic 
security or military question, and that part of the strategy. On last 
Tuesday, the international community met in Kabul to assess the 
progress as it relates to Afghanistan itself and the stability in 
Afghanistan. This was the biggest international gathering in Kabul in 
40 years, 70 dignitaries from around the world, including our own 
Secretary of State, Secretary Clinton, and U.N. Secretary General Ban 
Ki-moon. Kabul itself, the city, was under virtual lockdown for the 
gathering, which passed without any major attacks, thank goodness. That 
is a testimony to the Afghan security forces.


The conference attendees endorsed President Karzai's plan for Afghan 
security forces to take over the responsibility for safeguarding the 
country by 2014, setting a potential timeline for foreign troops' 
departure.

President Karzai also said his government ''continued earnestly and 
with the full dedication, the pursuit of the peace process,'' with the 
Taliban, which has been endorsed by the international community. The 
United States has laid down basic requirements or conditions for any 
group seeking to negotiate, seeking some kind of reconciliation. There 
are three, and we need all three.

First, any group that wants to engage in this process has to end its 
ties to al-Qaida; second, they have to end violence itself; and, third, 
accept the Afghanistan Constitution.

Secretary Clinton met with a group of women in Kabul and reiterated 
her commitment to protecting women during this difficult transition 
period in Afghanistan. This issue is critical and has a direct impact 
on U.S. national security.

Women are the backbone of Afghan society, and they play a 
determinative role in whether their sons resort to extremism. It is 
that simple. With American fighting men and women giving, as Lincoln 
said, their ''last full measure of devotion to their country,'' the 
product of our troops' sacrifice cannot be an Afghanistan that does not 
respect the rights of women. The Taliban cannot be allowed to impose 
their Draconian version of justice as it relates to women or society in 
general.

Senator Boxer and I cochaired a Foreign Relations Subcommittee 
hearing on women in Afghanistan a number of months ago and will 
continue to strongly advocate for the rights of women in Afghanistan. 
We commend and applaud the work of Secretary Clinton and her Department 
on this issue. It is not only the right thing to do, it is literally in 
our national security interest to do this work.

The most unfortunate indicator in the security environment, however, 
is the increase in American casualties, killed in action, and wounded. 
June was the deadliest month on record. The death toll was 103. More 
than half of them were American servicemembers, and from Pennsylvania 
four servicemembers were among those 103 killed in action.

A new Afghan study also revealed that civilian casualties are on the 
rise. More than 1,000 Afghan civilians were killed in the first 6 
months of 2010, a slight increase compared to the same period in 2009. 
However, the number of people killed in NATO air strikes in the same 
period has decreased by 50 percent because of changes in the rules of 
engagement. So it is good news that that number is going down.

Most of the civilian deaths documented by the report were caused by 
insurgents, with the widespread use of roadside bombs, IEDs, as I 
mentioned before, particularly deadly. They alone have killed 300 
civilians, those kinds of explosions.

In addition to security, which is essential, of course, in any 
strategy to make sure there is stability in Afghanistan, the second 
element is once you have security or are making progress on security, 
you hear this talk over and over again about clear, hold, and build. 
You clear out the insurgents, clear out the enemy, and then you have 
got to hold that region or that geography, and then build on it. The 
building, of course, cannot take place unless there is good governance. 
And to say we have a lot of questions in this area is a dramatic 
understatement.

Corruption in the Afghan Government was a major issue at this week's 
conference. President Karzai identified corruption as a major concern 
in his inaugural address, going back a number of months. We support 
steps he has taken to begin addressing this problem. These include 
issuing a Presidential decree in March of 2010 that provided that the 
USAID-supported High Office of Oversight have additional investigative 
powers.

It also outlined a process we are supporting for establishing a 
monitoring


and evaluation committee on corruption comprised of Afghan and 
international experts. Last week, Afghanistan's Cabinet approved a bill 
which will allow government ministers and senior officials accused of 
corruption to be put on trial. For Americans, that doesn't seem like a 
big development, but that alone is significant progress, to put corrupt 
officials on trial and have a judgment rendered pursuant thereto. Once 
passed by Parliament or Presidential decree, this bill will allow the 
creation of a special tribunal to try officials accused of graft or 
corruption. Under current Afghan law, ministers are immune from 
prosecution in ordinary courts. It is hard to understand that, but that 
is the situation as it stands now.

American officials estimate that $14 billion a year in assistance is 
put through the government, but most of the current assistance package 
now goes through Western organizations. As the Obama administration 
makes an effort to increase direct assistance to the Afghan Government, 
safeguards must be put in place to ensure Afghans bolster their 
financial management systems and combat corruption. As emphasized in 
the administration's January Afghan strategy document, there has been a 
major U.S. and Afghan push to build up local governance. This approach 
represents an attempt to build some of the tribal and other local 
structures destroyed in the course of constant warfare over several 
decades. We have a long way to go on governance, but it bears scrutiny 
and attention and a lot of tough questions asked by Members of the 
House and Senate and getting answers to those tough questions from the 
administration and from President Karzai and his government.

Third is the issue of development. In his testimony last week, 
Ambassador Holbrooke highlighted USAID's agriculture voucher program. 
Launched in September of 2009, this program has distributed wheat seed 
to more than 366,00 farmers--critically important to give farmers the 
resources and help to develop their crops. This strategy also resulted 
in the training of 80,000 Afghan farmers in best practices and employed 
over 70,000 Afghans on short-term rural infrastructure projects. In 
many places throughout Afghanistan's south, these programs are being 
administered increasingly under the auspices of the Afghan Ministry of 
Agriculture, whose extension agents receive training from forward-
deployed USDA and USAID agricultural advisers. Many Americans might 
think the only people on the ground are soldiers and military 
personnel. We have a lot of dedicated Americans who work for the 
Department of Agriculture, for USAID, who work for a number of Federal 
Government agencies helping the Afghan people to develop their economy 
and to govern their country better.

Ambassador Holbrooke also discussed our new counternarcotics 
strategy, which combines law enforcement, intelligence, interdiction, 
demand reduction, regional coordination, and alternative livelihood 
programs. He reports that:




 We have seen significant increases in: the number of drug 


 labs destroyed; the number of drug traffickers arrested; the 


 amounts of opium, poppy, heroin, and morphine [based-drugs] 


 seized; the number of joint operations with Afghan forces.


A joint ISAF-Embassy Kabul effort has been restoring cellular 
telephone service in areas where the Taliban has destroyed or 
deactivated cell towers. Over 20 cell towers have been reactivated in 
Helmand Province and Kandahar, with significant benefits for local 
communities. One of the civilians embedded with the Marines in Helmand 
Province reported that soon after a local cell tower resumed operation, 
''three cell phone shops opened up in the district bizarre and SIM 
cards were available in the whole of the district--without involvement 
from the Marines or U.S. civilians.''

That is a bit of good news in the midst of a lot of difficult 
challenges.

All of us commend the Obama administration's work to bolster civilian 
efforts in Afghanistan. On a mission so important, where troops and 
families are sacrificing so much every day, building civilian capacity 
can never move fast enough. However, we have tripled the amount of 
civilian advisers since the Obama administration assumed office in 
2009. The administration has refocused development priorities on 
agriculture and changed the rules of engagement to ensure fewer Afghan 
civilians are negatively affected and turned into potential enemies. We 
are making progress, but much more remains to be done on the three 
critical measurements: security, governance, and development.

I will continue to ask tough questions and demand answers on all 
three parts of our strategy. The American people have a right to these 
answers.

The threat posed by IEDs in Afghanistan is the No. 1 killer. We know 
this from many reports. The work done by the Joint Improvised Explosive 
Devices Defeat Organization, known as JIEDDO, is working actively to 
address the threat on the ground. The State Department, led by 
Secretary Clinton, is engaged with governments across the region to 
develop a comprehensive approach on countering IEDs and having a 
strategy for stopping the flow of ammonium nitrate into Afghanistan 
from Pakistan and other places in the region, which is the central 
ingredient in the IEDs. I am glad this effort is taking place by our 
government but much more work needs to be done. We need to do 
everything we can to stop the attacks that result from the use of 
ammonium nitrate and other ingredients in the IEDs. Nothing is more 
important as part of our strategy.

I yield the floor.