---
---

# IRAQ
## `ca5f3323bf3e1b98f7feaec1f244f4e1`
`Mr. BOND — 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, we all know and acknowledge that al-Qaida 
and other related terrorist groups are determined to strike at the U.S. 
homeland. But a precipitous U.S. withdrawal from Iraq would only serve 
to fuel that determination and, as a result, surrender Iraq to al-
Qaida, which would directly threaten the security of the United States 
and its allies.

Yesterday, we had a visit from Henry Kissinger who warned us that 
such a precipitous withdrawal would be revisiting the nightmare of 
Vietnam, where our withdrawal there created genocide among those who 
had supported us and other innocent Southeast Asians. This time, 
however, al-Qaida would follow us back to America. Al-Qaida would use 
Iraq as a safe haven, as it once had in Afghanistan. Only this time 
with oil revenues, in addition to a safe haven, it would be well 
positioned and financed to launch further enhanced attacks against the 
United States. Yet we continue to hear from the other side calls for 
withdrawal, despite preliminary reports of progress resulting from the 
surge, as my colleague from Georgia has so eloquently explained.

We continue to hear calls for timelines that would embolden the 
morale of our enemies and dissuade the populace from cooperating with 
U.S. and Iraqi forces, and the latest and most recent development in 
the string of defeatism has come from the House majority whip. This 
past Monday in the Washington Post, he stated that a strongly positive 
report on progress in Iraq by General Petraeus would likely split 
Democrats in the House and impede his party's efforts to press for a 
timetable to end the war.

Now it appears some in the Democratic Party leadership are so 
invested in retreat and defeat politically that despite whatever the 
news is coming out of Iraq and regardless of the consequences, they are 
committed to defeat.

Why, I ask, is the majority focused not on our national security but 
on scoring political points? I guess we should pull out, cede victory 
for the terrorists in Iraq, in order to keep the Democrats united for 
the general elections in 2008.

What we, the Iraqi people, and all freedom-loving nations face is a 
fundamental threat from barbaric cowards misrepresenting the true 
nature of peaceful teachings of Islam. The terrorists of mufsidoon, as 
they should be called, are condemned evildoers distorting the Koran. 
They are not jihadists. Jihad is pursuing a moral superiority. These 
people who commit these acts are not insurgents or jihadists. The 
clearer we define the true enemy, the easier it will be to defeat them.

What we have seen for some time now is encouraging signs this has, in 
fact, happened, coupled with the surge that is showing progress. Sunni 
sheiks in Al Anbar have been working with us to take back their 
neighborhoods and villages, fed up with the mufsidoon al-Qaida 
committing atrocities.

My colleague referred to the Sunday New York Times article. Two men 
who are strong opponents of the war in Iraq said, referring to al-Qaida 
and other Salafist groups, as well as Moktada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army:




 These groups have tried to impose Shariah law, brutalized 


 average Iraqis to keep them in line, killed important local 


 leaders and seized young women to marry off to their 


 loyalists. The result has been that in the last 6 months, 


 Iraqis have begun to turn on the extremists and turn to the 


 Americans for security and help. The most important and best-


 known example of this is in Anbar Province, which in less 


 than 6 months has gone from the worst part of Iraq to the 


 best. Today, the Sunni sheiks there are close to crippling Al 


 Qaeda and its Salafist allies. Just a few months ago, 


 American marines were fighting for every yard of Ramadi; last 


 week we strolled down its streets without body armor.


I observed the same when my CODEL visited Iraq in early May. The 
authors said ''there is enough good happening on the battlefields of 
Iraq today that Congress should plan on sustaining the effort at least 
until 2008.''

So if two of the war's harshest, most longstanding critics admit we 
are making a difference, why can't the Democrats give victory a chance? 
Why can't they give millions of Iraqis a chance at freedom? Why can't 
they acknowledge the progress being made?

Pollack and O'Hanlon said that the soldiers and marines know they 
have a superb commander in General Petraeus.




 . . . they are confident in his strategy, they see real 


 results, and they feel now they have the numbers needed to 


 make a real difference.


It is time my colleagues in the other party who claim to support the 
troops actually do so in both words and deeds. Ignoring the progress 
being made by our troops because it does not suit the political ends of 
some Democratic leaders is an egregious outrage. Advocating for a 
precipitous withdrawal from Iraq would be a rallying cry for al-Qaida 
and other mufsidoon all over the world. What are we to say to the 
millions of Iraqis who have sided with us in taking back their country, 
only to see them slaughtered systematically after we leave the job 
before it is finished?

Our words should inspire our troops and those who are working with 
us. Rest assured our soldiers and marines are listening. A recent 
speech by Marine Corps Commandant Conway underscores the point:




 I sat this week and listened to a United States Senator who 


 criticized the U.S. effort




 in Iraq as being involved in an Iraqi civil war while 


 ignoring the real fight against terrorism that was taking 


 place in Afghanistan.



 With due respect to the Senator, I would offer that he is 


 wrong on two counts. The fact is that there is no civil war 


 taking place in Iraq by any reasonable metric. There is 


 certainly sectarian strife, but even that is on the declining 


 scale over the past six months.



 Ironically, this strife was brought about and inflamed by 


 the very terrorists some claim do not exist in Iraq. The 


 sectarian strife is a tactic aimed at creating chaos with 


 little risk to the instigator while it ties down coalition 


 forces.


Yet, Mr. President, the retreat-and-defeat crowd, despite encouraging 
signs the surge is working, despite the fact this new strategy has only 
been in place fully for just a couple of months, and despite the fact 
that the Democrats have failed to offer any constructive alternatives, 
other than the ones that would cede defeat, continue to push down that 
line.

It is a huge disappointment to me, to others, to those who support 
our troops and the efforts to protect our homeland from the al-Qaida 
attacks that would surely follow a precipitous withdrawal. It is a huge 
disappointment that this debate is not about how we can achieve victory 
but how quickly we can declare defeat. This has become a political 
debate. The focus of our national security has been sidetracked. As I 
have said time and time again, we should debate legislation which 
provides our troops with a clear path to victory, a victory which, 
sadly, many in this body are ready to award to al-Qaida and mufsidoon 
all over the world without ever having given the surge a chance.