---
---

# REAFFIRMING THE HISTORIC TIES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE  NETHERLANDS
## `ca64b964eca1e26b279480502a967d8c`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 23 September 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

The United States and the Netherlands are strong allies. The roots of 
our close relationship stretch back for more than 100 years before our 
Nation's independence. In September of 1609, Henry Hudson explored a 
vast river and territory in what is now New York State while on an 
expedition for the Dutch East India Company. On his return from that 
expedition, Hudson wrote such glowing reports on the promise of the 
lands that he had discovered that Dutch citizens were inspired to cross 
the Atlantic and establish the New Netherland settlement. The values of 
those early Dutch settlers--values of entrepreneurship, democracy, 
tolerance and hard work--continue to influence our society today 400 
years later.

The friendship between the young United States of America and the 
Netherlands was tested when America was on the brink of bankruptcy due 
to the financial cost incurred in its fight for independence and 
reached out to the Netherlands for financial support. Ultimately, the 
Dutch provided the United States with a loan that proved vital to 
ensuring the survival of our young Nation. Subsequently, in another 
strong sign of friendship, the Netherlands was the first European 
country to diplomatically recognize the new United States of America.

Many of us have grown up with the story of brave young Hans Brinker 
who saved the people of the Netherlands by sticking his finger in the 
dam to prevent a devastating flood. Well, what many people don't know 
is that this story was actually made famous in 1865 by American author 
Mary Mapes Dodge to illustrate for American children the characteristic 
values of bravery, resourcefulness and self-sacrifice, associated with 
the people of the Netherlands. In this story, Hans Brinker stood alone. 
However, the history of the Dutch-American relationship demonstrates 
our commitment that should either be in need, the other will stand by 
them. This commitment has truly been in evidence whenever the Dutch and 
Americans have fought side by side through the second World War, the 
Korean War, the Gulf Wars, and numerous other global efforts. Today 
we're working together in Afghanistan and in Iraq to prevent extremists 
from unleashing devastating violence against the people of those 
countries and our own.

I am pleased to support this resolution today, which marks the 400th 
anniversary of the discovery of the Hudson River and the beginning of 
the deep and lasting friendship between the Netherlands and the United 
States of America.