---
---

# None
## `ca689181b1566bbd027d3f8d5112e7a9`
`Mr. BIDEN — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for their courtesy.

Mr. President amendment No. 3142 is very simple. It provides the 
$23.6 billion in funding needed to replace every Army up-armored HMMWV 
in Iraq with a mine resistant ambush protected, or MRAP, vehicle.

It is exactly the same thing we did on the authorization bill that 
was passed Monday night.

Our commanders in the field tell us that MRAPs will reduce casualties 
by 67 to 80 percent.

The lead commander on the ground in Iraq, LTG Ray Odierno told us 
months ago that he wanted to replace each of the Army's approximately 
18,000 up-armored HMMWVs in Iraq with an MRAP.

Instead of adjusting the requirement immediately, the Pentagon has 
taken its time to study this issue. They originally agreed that the 
Army should get 380 MRAPs. That was in December 2006.

Then, in March of this year, they agreed to 2,500.

In August, they added a few more and agreed to 2,726 for the Army.

This month, they have agreed that the general needs a little over 
half of what he asked for--10,000. Slowly they are getting there.

We have seen this movie before with the body armor and with the up-
armored HMMWVs. Until Congress insisted that the better protection be 
fielded to all those in Iraq, it was not.

So, today, we are insisting that the Army get all of the 18,000 MRAPs 
the commanders in the field have asked for.

To be honest, I cannot understand why it is taking so long to agree 
to replace them all. It makes no sense. We know how effective these 
vehicles can be.

Just last week, General Pace, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff, told the Appropriations Committee that MRAPs have been tested 
at Aberdeen with 300 pounds of explosives below them and they survived.

Are we only supposed to care about the tactical advice of our 
commanders in the field when it is cheap?

I don't think that is what the American people or our military men 
and women expect from us.

I know some will say that it is not possible to build a total of 
23,000 MRAPs in 12 to 15 months. Why not? Why not?

This is basically a modified truck. With real leadership and a 
national level commitment, America can certainly make this happen. I 
believe in the ''can-do'' spirit and deep patriotism of our businesses. 
MRAP manufacturers want to make the 23,000 vehicles needed to save the 
lives of our men and women on the front line.

But I also know that we have to do our part. In Congress, the best 
thing we can do to make sure it happens is to fully fund every vehicle 
needed upfront.

Contractors and subcontractors can only expand their capacity if we 
are clear on what we need and that we will fully fund it.

This amendment allows us to do that.

It also ensures that any delays in dealing with the overall wartime 
supplemental funding bill do not cause the production lines that are 
only now getting up to speed to shut down.

Once we provide the full funding, American businesses must step up 
and get it done and the Pentagon must manage the program aggressively 
and attentively and the President must make it clear that this is a 
national priority.

But we have no chance of making all of the needed vehicles, as 
quickly as possible, if we fund the program bit by bit, in fits and 
starts. We must do our part.

Once again, I ask my colleagues to weigh their options.

Do we do our best to save American lives, knowing that the only 
downside is the possible need to reprogram funding at the end of the 
year? Or do we care more about some unknown total wartime funding limit 
than those lives?

We have an obligation to provide the best possible protection to each 
and every military man and woman while they are in the line of fire. If 
these vehicles can reduce American casualties by two-thirds or more, 
how can we do anything else? I agree with the Commandant of the Marine 
Corps, GEN James Conway when he said, ''Anything less is immoral.''

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.