---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ca7fa06b31f29e16985c710860e67711`
`Ms. KILPATRICK — 25 April 2007`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I thank our chairman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, this is a good bill. We are legislators. The President 
has a job and we who represent the people have a job. It funds the war, 
a war that the other side started, and the speech that they are giving 
tonight is the same speech they gave 4 years ago.

It's time to change course. This bill funds veterans who have been 
wounded severely, children who need health care, and all the 
emergencies that this country needs to address and has not been taking 
care of the last decade.

Pass the bill.

Mr. President, sign the bill. It's the best bill. The Senate and 
House have agreed, and we don't care that the President has said, 
before we even passed it out of the first Chamber, that he would veto 
it. We have to pass this bill, bring our troops home, and have a plan 
for success.

This is a good conference report. Americans, speak out. If the 
President does veto the bill, there is something to be paid. The troops 
need our help and our support, and I thank Chairman Obey and Chairman 
Murtha for their leadership. Vote for the conference report.

''Few will have the greatness to bend history itself; but each of us 
can work to change a small portion of events, and in the total of all 
those acts will be written the history of this generation.'' Sen. 
Robert F. Kennedy.

This vote will affect us today, it will affect our children tomorrow, 
it will affect our grand children of the next generation. Unlike some 
of our colleagues, I refuse to legislate any bill, much less this bill, 
merely because the President has issued a veto threat. Our brand of 
government has lasted for more than 230 years because of the separation 
of powers. The President needs the money, and Congress controls the 
power of the purse.

We have the opportunity to change course, confront crises, and 
continue the legacy of not only the Democratic Party but of America 
with this vote today.

As of April 23, 2007, there have been 3,333 U.S. Military Deaths 
Confirmed by the Department of Defense. There have been at least 20,000 
women and men who have been wounded, and untold numbers of women and 
men who have been affected by traumatic brain injuries that we are just 
discovering, and will suffer for decades from post traumatic stress 
disorder.

The Democrats have worked to compromise with the Administration. 
While I, like many of my colleagues, hoped that we would retain the 
House language with regard to the troop deployment provisions, I 
understand that honesty and compromise are the hallmarks of this august 
body.

Make no mistake about it; this vote is a vote to support our troops 
and will bring an end to the war in the near future. The military 
options for Iraq are exhausted; we need to pursue diplomatic solutions 
so that the Iraqis and other countries in the Middle East can be real 
shareholders in the fate of Iraq.

This supplemental enforces the President's own benchmarks that the 
Iraqis protect and end their civil war. This bill has the military's 
own standards for readiness and deployment. This bill provides more 
than the President requested for military procurement, construction, 
health care, and readiness.

I am proud that the Committee supported my request for increased 
funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, to remove 
the matching funds for many of the grants and loans going to the 
rebuilding of states affected by Hurricane Katrina, in particular the 
city of New Orleans.

$450 million for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)/Counseling: 
African American male Vietnam and Iraq theater veterans have higher 
rates of PTSD than Whites. Rates of current PTSD are 28% among 
Hispanics, 21% among African Americans, and 14 percent


among Whites. African Americans have greater exposure to war stresses 
and had more predisposing factors than Whites, which appeared to 
account for their higher rate of PTSD.

$450 million for Traumatic Brain Injury care and research: Traumatic 
brain injury (TBI) is caused by a blow or jolt to the head or a 
penetrating head injury that disrupts the function of the brain.

$20 million to address the problems at Walter Reed: When the federal 
base-closing commission recommended shutting down Walter Reed Army 
Medical Center in Washington, it was noted through a number of reports 
that most of the patients and communities affected were African-
American.

$100 million to allow the VA to contract with private mental 
healthcare providers to offer veterans, including Guard and reserve 
members, quality and timely care: African Americans are more likely to 
be victims of serious violent crime than are non-Hispanic whites.

Food Assistance (PL 480 Title II): Adds $450 million, which is $100 
million above the President's request, to support food aid in Sudan/
Eastern Chad, Southern Africa, and the Horn of Africa.

Agricultural Assistance: Adds $3.7 billion. According to the National 
Farmers Union, over 80 percent of U.S. counties were designated as 
disaster areas in 2005, and 60 percent were declared in 2006, making 
this assistance essential if farmers are to maintain their livelihoods 
in the coming year.

Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP): The Supplemental 
adds $400 million to partially restore cuts to the program.

Pandemic Flu Preparedness: Adds $1 billion to purchase vaccines 
needed to protect us from a global pandemic.

State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP): As amended in 
Committee, the proposal adds $750 million for SCHIP to ensure continued 
healthcare coverage for children in 14 states that face a budget 
shortfall in the program.

Foreign Aid: $40 million in security assistance is added for Liberia. 
This provision was added only because of the CBC.

After far too long, the bill will address the outstanding needs of 
our working women and men by increasing the minimum wage of Americans.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
