---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `ca7fbe6e11d12e711bc44909f7206f18`
`Mr. McCAIN — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, could I say I thank Senator Levin, Senator 
Reid, and Senator Biden. Senator Lieberman and Senator Kyl will be 
discussing their amendment, which is a very important amendment 
concerning Iran so that everybody will have a good idea, and they will 
be discussing it again on Monday--or debating it. I would hope, as the 
distinguished chairman has said, that we could probably vote on the 
Kyl-Lieberman amendment very shortly after the vote on the Biden 
amendment, yet we are unable to put that in concrete. There may be a 
side by side, there may not be.

I wish to remind my colleagues again, if I could, this is the 13th 
day of debate now, and we have had 79 hours of debate on this bill. The 
Wounded Warriors legislation is still waiting, the pay raise, so many 
other things that are vital to, I believe, the men and women who are 
serving and the security of this Nation. What I hope--and I know 
Senator Levin who is managing this bill would agree--is that once we 
finish the Iraq issue, we should be able to move through the other 
amendments rather quickly. We are obviously running out of time. The 
first of October is upon us. So I hope we can finish the Iraq 
amendments as quickly as possible and move on to the 100 or so 
amendments we have on the bill itself. I thank the chairman for all of 
the cooperation and hard work he has done on this bill.
