---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ca983c1e4721c1665931b4ae34b9dfa7`
`Mr. BILBRAY — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BILBRAY. Mr. Speaker, in the 230-year history of our country, the 
United States has fought in conflicts both at home and abroad that have 
tested the resolve and unity of the American people. During that time, 
the purview of the Commander in Chief has justly been scrutinized and 
questioned. These debates are a part of our past and will be a part of 
our future as long as we send our men and women into battlefields to 
fight for our country.



Today's debate is no exception. The question we must answer for 
ourselves is a fundamental one that speaks not to our approval of the 
War in Iraq but rather to our commitment to the men and women fighting 
this war. It is a commitment we must reaffirm without question or 
doubt. With commitment and unity.

Now it seems to me that we have two courses of action we can take 
regarding the War in Iraq. We can pull our troops out immediately and 
leave the stability of the region up to an increasingly violent 
insurgency, thereby admitting defeat, or we can send in further 
reinforcements to work with Iraqi Security Forces to seize control of 
their country.

We can all agree that a change in the status quo must be made. With 
an increased level of violence between Sunni and Shia insurgent groups, 
an escalating cost, and the loss of American lives, it is imperative 
that we have a legitimate and substantive debate on the direction of 
this war.

However, if we are to succeed in Iraq and complete the mission, then 
the United States House of Representatives should not waste its time 
debating a nonbinding resolution criticizing the Commander in Chief. 
This resolution offers no real policy alternatives for Iraq and does 
not bring our men and women home any sooner. It is a political shot 
aimed at the President, but it is really our troops who suffer most 
from these grandstanding tactics.

I recently visited Walter Reed Hospital to hear from the wounded who 
have been to Iraq and sacrificed so much for their country. I talked to 
a wounded soldier who had a bone infection that prohibited him from 
returning to Iraq. He was not concerned about his physical well-being 
but instead he was upset that he could not go to finish the job that he 
had started. His feelings reflected the thoughts of many of the 
soldiers that I had the privilege to sit and talk with that day.

The fact is we face a moment of unparalleled opportunity to, in 
voice, in one vote, fulfill our promise to our troops--the promise that 
we will give them the resources, the armor, the manpower and 
reinforcements they need so that they may safely and effectively win 
the War on Terror and come back home.