---
---

# PEAK OIL
## `caa0596809a8f171612226556d71697e`
`Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland — 7 February 2008`

---


Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Thank you very much for joining us in this 
discussion of energy. You know, Congressman Gilchrest, some might say, 
gee, won't the global warming problem be solved if, in fact, we were at 
peak oil? It would be nice if that would solve the problem, but it 
won't.

You see, we have now used about 1 trillion barrels of oil. That's 
about half of the oil that we ultimately will use. There is about 
another 1 trillion barrels of oil to use. So as we go through this last 
half of the age of oil, we will release as much CO2 from 
burning that oil and gas and coal as we have released now in the first 
half of the age of oil.

So the CO2 contributed during this industrial age and 
burning the fossil fuels will double. It will be twice as big at the 
end of this time.

I have here an interesting graph, a little cartoon here. There is a 
huge SUV there and it's labeled ''demand,'' and there is a gas pump 
there and it's labeled ''supply,'' and it's little, and the motor is 
saying, Gee, just why is gas so expensive? Well, that's the reason, of 
course: There is a big demand and a little supply. When you have that, 
that makes prices go up.

The next chart is a quote from the second of these studies, which 
your government paid for and has pretty much been ignoring. This is the 
Corps of Engineers: ''Oil is the most important form of energy in the 
world today.'' The President recognized that in his State of the Union 
a year or so ago.

''Historically, no other energy source equals oil's intrinsic quality 
of extractability, transportability, versatility, and cost. The 
qualities that enabled oil to take over from coal as a front-line 
energy source for the industrialized world in the middle of the 20th 
century are just as relevant today as they were then.''

Oil is, indeed, an incredible energy source. One barrel of oil, and 
when I first heard this statistic, I said, gee, that can't be true, one 
barrel of oil has the equivalent of 25,000 man-hours of labor, that's 
12 people working all year. I thought, gee, can that be true, just 1 
barrel of oil, 42 gallons of oil.

Then I thought how far that gallon of gasoline, still at $3, by the 
way, cheaper than water in the grocery store, how far that gallon of 
gasoline carries my Prius. I drive a Prius and we get just a little 
under 50 miles per gallon with it. I could pull my Prius 50 miles, but 
how long would it take me to pull my Prius 50 miles?

When I looked at that and I figured, gee, maybe it's true that a 
barrel of oil has the energy equivalent of 12 men working all year.

The incredibly high quality of life that almost all the world enjoys 
today is the result of our ability to tap into the stored energy in 
fossil fuels.

The next chart is a quote from Admiral Hyman Rickover. He gave a 
speech, it will be 51 years ago the 14th day of this May, to a group of 
physicians in St. Paul, Minnesota. These are some excerpts from his 
speech. He really was prophetic. He is the father, of course, of our 
nuclear submarine.


''There is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel 
reserves. They were created by solar energy'' he says, 500 million 
years ago ''and took aeons to grow to their present volume. In the face 
of the basic fact that fossil fuel reserves are finite,'' and they are, 
''the exact length these reserves will last is important in one 
respect. The longer they last, the more time we have to invent ways to 
live off renewable or substitute energy resource and to adjust our 
economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift.''

Fifty-one years ago we were only then about 100 years into the age of 
oil. He had no idea how long the age of oil will last. Now we know 
pretty much how long the age of oil will last.

He said that how long it lasted was important in only one respect, 
that the longer it lasted, the more time did we have to plan for the 
transition to renewables, which ultimately we will do. Geology will 
ensure that eventually we transition to renewable fuels.

''Fossil fuels resemble capital in the bank. A prudent and 
responsible parent will use his capital sparingly in order to pass on 
to his children as much as possible of his inheritance.''

I thought often of that very sage counsel. You know, it doesn't even 
come close to our attitude towards oil. With no more responsibility 
than the kids who found the cookie jar or the hog who found the feed 
room door open, we have just been pigging out. We have been pumping oil 
as fast as we could all over the world eager to find new places from 
which to pump oil.

We just found some more oil in the Gulf of Mexico under 7,000 feet of 
water, 30,000 feet of rock. We aren't starting to exploit that yet 
because oil at $100 a barrel or $88 a barrel apparently is not high 
enough.

''A selfish and irresponsible parent will squander it in riotous 
living and care not one whit how his offspring will fare.''

Boy, that is quite precisely what we have done with this incredible 
wealth under the ground. When we found that wealth 150 years ago, we 
should have stopped and said, gee, what can we do with this to do the 
most good for the most people for the longest time? Rather than doing 
that, what we did was to act as if oil were forever, that there would 
never be an end of oil, just keep drilling, just keep pumping, and it 
will always be there.

The next chart shows the industrial age and the transition from wood, 
the brown line here to coal, and then to gas and oil. Boy, look what 
happened. Look at the slope of that line.

Now, if I put world population on this, it would be hardly 
indistinguishable from that energy curve, because the world's 
population just shot up. It was less than 1 billion people for a very 
long time. Now it's approaching 7 billion people, and that increase in 
population follows exactly this dramatic increase in the release of 
energy from the use of gas and oil.

A couple of interesting things about this chart, notice where that 
line would be if it kept on going up, way off the top of the chart by 
this time. That dip there, as you notice from the abscissa, occurred in 
the 1970s, was the Arab oil spike price spots and the worldwide 
recession that resulted from that. There was demand destruction. We 
didn't need as much oil because we were in a recession, a depression in 
many places.



The production went down and, boy, did the price go down. It dropped, 
do you remember, about $10 a barrel. All of those activities, which 
were looking at producing substitutes, they just all died because you 
can't compete with oil at $10 a barrel.

We now are very much more efficient than we were at this time. The 
slope of this curve, by the way, is really interesting. That's during 
the Carter years. During the Carter years, every decade we used as much 
oil as had been used in all of previous history. That's a stunning 
statistic.

What that means is that when you have used half of your oil, how much 
will remain, 10 years. We are now very much more efficient than we were 
then. We are able to live better than we were then, using less energy 
because your air conditioner is probably three times as efficient; so 
is your refrigerator. Your car is more efficient. If they would keep 
them small, they would get better mileage even.

The next chart is really an interesting one, and looking at this 
chart causes you to do a lot of reflection. This is ''The World 
According to Oil,'' and it depicts two things. One is who has the oil. 
And the other one is who uses the oil. The yellow and the green there 
are the people who are using the oil, and the blues and the grays are 
the people who have the oil.



You notice this is what the world's map would look like if the size 
of the country was relative to the amount of oil it had in reserve. 
Saudi Arabia is huge. It represents about 22 percent, almost a fourth 
of all of the oil reserves in all of the world.

Little Kuwait here, a tiny country, Saddam Hussein thought it looked 
like an errant province of Iraq and he went to reclaim it a decade or 
so ago, but little Kuwait has as much oil as Iraq. There is Iran. 
United Arab Emirates, you can hardly see them on the map. Look at 
Venezuela. It dwarfs us.

Here we are with 2 percent of the reserves. We are yellow because we 
use 25 percent of all of the world's oil. Notice that Venezuela is 
several times larger than we are.

Russia is pretty big, what three, four times bigger than we are, but 
they aren't using anywhere near as much oil as we are per capita so 
they are a big exporter and they have lots of money.

What is striking on this map is the size of China and India. Notice 
them here. Together they don't have as much oil as the United States, 
but together they have 2.3 billion people. With booming economies, 
China growing 11.4 percent, that was the statistic I saw for the last 
quarter.

Mentioning China, the next chart looks at what China is doing around 
the world. China is going around the world and buying oil wherever they 
can. And they are not just buying oil; they are buying goodwill. Would 
you like a soccer stadium, maybe a hospital, or roads is what you need 
in your country. This symbol here is for Unocal. They almost bought an 
oil company in our country a few years ago.

Why is China doing that? In today's world it doesn't make one bit of 
difference who owns the oil. From that previous chart when you saw 
those huge reserves of oil in north Africa and the Middle East, those 
people are using very little oil. He who comes with the dollars, let's 
hope it stays dollars and not your euros or we'll be in a world of 
hurt, he who comes with the dollars gets the oil. It doesn't make any 
difference in today's world who owns the oil, so why is China buying 
oil?

China has 900 million people in what they call rural areas. They may 
be in rural areas, but many of them have television and they are seeing 
the results of industrialization and they are demanding for themselves 
the increased quality of life that comes from the industrialization 
that they see in other countries in the world. So China has a problem 
in providing adequate industrialization to meet the emotional needs of 
these people so, and this is a judgment call on my part, so they don't 
become a problem and revolt.

I think the day may come when China may tell the rest of the world, 
Gee, guy, we're sorry, this is our oil and we have 2.3 billion people 
and we can't share it with you. To make that a reality, they will need 
a big navy. They will need a big navy to hold open the sea lanes and 
get that oil to their country. They are growing a navy very rapidly. 
This is open source literature. You can do a Google search for 
''China'' and ''navy'' and you can see how aggressively they are 
growing their navy.

What China is doing here resulted in a statement in 2006 by 
Condoleezza Rice which is in our next chart here. ''We do have to do 
something about the energy problem. I can tell you that nothing has 
taken me aback more as Secretary of State than the way that the 
politics of energy is, I will use the word warping diplomacy around the 
world. We have simply got to do something about the warping now of the 
diplomatic effort by the all-out rush for energy supply.''

The next chart presents some numbers that I went through a bit ago. 
These numbers, by the way, prompted about 3 years ago now, 30 of our 
prominent Americans, Boyden Gray, and McFarland and Jim Woolsey and 27 
others, among them retired four star admirals and generals, they wrote 
a letter to the President saying: Mr. President, the fact that we have 
only 2 percent of the world's oil reserve and we use 25 percent and we 
import almost two-thirds of what we use is a totally unacceptable 
national security risk. We need to do something about it. You may 
remember the President mentioned this in one of his State of the Union 
speeches. Indeed we do have to do something about that.

We represent a bit less than 5 percent of the world's population. We 
are one person in 22 in the world, and we use a fourth of the world's 
oil. That statistic is not lost on the rest of the world, by the way. 
They are noting that.

With only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves, we are pumping 8 
percent of the world's oil. What does that mean? Very simply, it means 
we are pumping our oil four times faster than the rest of the world, 
which means that our supplies are going to run down faster than the 
rest of the world.

We have 630,000 producing oil wells in our country. That is more than 
all of the rest of the world put together, so we are really good at 
pumping oil.

The next chart is really a very important chart. If you were going to 
talk about energy, oil, and the world's future, and you had only one 
chart, this would be the one that you would use. This comes from the 
oil chart. You can do a Google search for ''oil charts'' and you can 
find this and a lot more information.

Peak oil, the growing gap. The bars here represent when we discovered 
oil. Boy, it started way back in World War II, back in the 1940s. Then 
we discovered a whole lot in the 1950s, a whole bunch, and a lot of oil 
in the seventies. Oil in the eighties, and look at what has happened. 
Down, down, down, down. And that is in spite of ever-better techniques 
for discovering oil, computer modeling and 3D seismic, and it is in 
spite of an ever-greater effort in going out and drilling new wells.

The solid black line here represents the amount of oil which we are 
producing and using. We use everything we produce, so it is the same 
line. Notice again up to the 1970s what has happened. If that line kept 
going up at that rate, we would be off the top of the chart here. But 
the Arab price oil spikes, at this point produced a worldwide recession 
that reduced the demand for oil, and then we became very much more 
efficient. Notice the low slope of this line compared to this one. 
Maybe that was a wake-up call that we needed, because if we hadn't had 
that, we would be in even more trouble today because we wouldn't have 
invested in those efficiencies.


But notice that since about 1980, we have been using more oil than we 
produce by this amount. So we have been dipping in reserves we had.

What will the future look like? One thing is certain: You cannot pump 
oil you have not found. So you can make your own judgment as to how 
much more oil we will find. Most of the world's experts believe we have 
probably found 95 percent of all of the conventionally recovered oil 
that we will ever find.

The light shaded area here represents the future, and they are 
showing peaking at about 2010 and downhill after that.

This area tails out until it comes down to zero, which will be 
another 150 years from now, because that is about how long we have been 
in the age of oil.



The difference between the amount you discover and the amount you are 
using has to be filled in by the reserves you have here. Now, you can 
make that future look a little different by enhanced oil recovery and 
going out and pumping live steam and pushing CO2 down there 
to push the oil out, but if you do that, you will simply move this peak 
out a little, and then you will kind of fall off the cliff because, 
again, you can't pump what you haven't found.

The next chart is an interesting one. We show again here Hubbert's 
peak and the production of oil in our country. The yellow symbols here 
are what M. King Hubbert predicted for the lower 48. The green is what 
actually happened. This is a really interesting chart. It was produced 
by CERA, Cambridge Energy Research Associates. They produced this chart 
in an effort to convince you that you shouldn't have any confidence in 
M. King Hubbert's predictions because he really got it wrong. Maybe to 
a statistician they might reach a conclusion that he got it wrong, but 
I think to the average layman this green curve and those yellow 
triangles are not all that different. He seemed to get it pretty right 
to me.

The red here is the additional oil that we found in the Gulf of 
Mexico and in Alaska. M. King Hubbert's prediction was just for the 
lower 48. And by the way, we are pumping 25 percent of our oil through 
that four-foot pipeline. I have been up to Deadhorse where it begins. 
Even with that, we had just a blip on the slide down the other side of 
Hubbert's peak.

The next chart is interesting. It is another one from the Cambridge 
Energy Research Associates, CERA. There are only two major entities 
that I know of in the world today that will claim that peaking of oil 
is not either present or imminent. One of those is ExxonMobil. The 
other oil company, I started with a quote from Shell saying we are 
probably there, are on board with the peak oil concept, and CERA, 
Cambridge Energy Research Associates.

I mentioned that we have discovered about 2 trillion barrels of oil. 
Here they have 1.9 trillion. That is pretty close to 2. If that is the 
amount of oil available, which is what we showed on the previous chart, 
if you add up all on the bars on the previous chart, they will come to 
about 2 trillion, and we have now pumped about half of that. We have 
the other half to pump. If that is all of the oil we have, they now 
show peaking here at about now, right? About 2010, roughly now they 
show peaking.

They are presuming that we are going to find another trillion barrels 
of oil, that we are going to find as much oil as all of the oil that we 
used in the 150 years since we started using oil. If you believe we are 
going to find that much more oil, then you push the peak out to about 
2035. That's just the take after tomorrow really, isn't it?

They are also projecting that we may find some unconventional oil, 
like we will be able to exploit a lot of oil from the tar sands and the 
oil shales. There are incredible amounts of potential oil there. The 
problem is can we really get it out in any timely fashion. We use 21 
million barrels of oil a day in our country. The world uses 84 million 
barrels of oil a day. Try to get your mind around that, 21 million 
barrels of oil a day, each one of them with the energy equivalent of 12 
people working all year. Wow, no wonder we live such great, high-
quality lives.

The next chart shows a schematic. By the way, you can make this peak 
look sharp by compressing the abscissa and expanding the ordinate. But 
this is 2 percent growth. And 2 percent growth is small. Our stock 
market doesn't like 2 percent. If it is only 2 percent, they think that 
the sky is going to fall and stocks drop.

But 2 percent growth doubles in 35 years. It is 4 times bigger in 70 
years. It is 8 times bigger in 105 years. It is 16 times bigger in 140 
years.

Albert Einstein said that the most powerful force in the universe was 
the power of compound interest when he was asked: Gee, Dr. Einstein, 
after the discovery of nuclear energy, what is the next big force in 
the universe? That was his answer: It is the power of compound 
interest.

I believe we are about here, just about at peaking. This is where we 
would like to be in 35 years, two times higher than we are now, and we 
have a huge gap to fill. Most people are looking at how can you fill 
that gap.



I don't think that there's even a prayer that we can come close to 
filling that gap. I think we'll be more than lucky if we can produce 
enough energy from alternative sources to fill in this area, if we 
simply have a plateau in production of oil.

The next chart is the one from our Energy Information Agency, and 
it's an interesting chart. The USGS has estimated the amount of 
reserves by doing a lot of computer modeling. And of course, as you 
know, in computer modeling, the quality of what you get out is 
dependent on the quality of information you put into your model.

And they take the mean of what they get from this modeling, and they 
say that that's the 50 percent average, ''F'' for frequency. Somehow 
that got translated to ''P'' when it went from the USGS report until it 
appears now in the Energy Information Agency report. And so now they're 
dealing with probabilities. And they make the bizarre statement that 
something which is 50 percent probable is more probable than something 
which is 95 percent probable.

And I'm going to spend just a moment on this. They have here, they 
did this projection back here, what, about 1995 or so. And they have 
four different curves there. One is the 95 percent probability; that's 
the yellow one. The green one is the mean, which they say is the most 
probable, 50 percent probability; and the blue is the 5 percent 
probability.

Well, these probabilities are kind of like the picture on the weather 
channel of where the hurricane is going. Tomorrow you know pretty 
precisely where it's going to be. A week from now you have some 
uncertainty, so they have a big funnel out there.

So if they are going to do this, there should be another green line 
down here and another blue line down here. You don't have the foggiest 
notion hardly what it's going to be if you have only a 5 percent 
probability.

But notice the actual data points, which are in red here. By the way, 
these are discoveries, and this is that big peak back, you know, in the 
1950s, and this is the big peak up here. This is kind of rounding out 
those bar graphs that we had in the previous chart. Notice the actual 
data points have been following what you would expect them to follow, 
the 95 percent of probability.

The next chart is one from the Corps of Engineers study again, and 
they quote Jean Laherrare, who is a French expert in this area. And he 
says the USGS estimate implies a fivefold increase in discovery rate 
and reserve addition, for which no evidence is presented. Such an 
improvement in performance is, in fact, utterly implausible, given the 
great technological achievements over the industry over the past 20 
years, the worldwide search and the deliberate effort to find the 
largest remaining prospects. Indeed, I think it is most implausible 
that that's going to happen.

And the next chart, again, this is from the ''Hirsch Report.'' And 
then even if that did happen, the real question is, so what? What if we 
found as much more oil as all the oil that yet remains to be pumped? 
And that's what they're assuming here. This is about 2 trillion 
barrels. They're assuming we're going to find another trillion barrels, 
and that's what this red curve is. And you see, it peaks in about 2016. 
So it pushes that peak out only about a decade. That's the power of 
compound growth. So even if we found as much more oil as all the oil 
that yet remains to be pumped in the world, according to this chart it 
would push it out only to 2016.

Now, you can push it out even further if you use enhanced oil 
recovery, but you can't pump what you don't have, so then you fall off 
a cliff. That's not what you want for your children and your 
grandchildren, I think.

The next chart shows a number of experts and when they have predicted 
it would peak, and you see most of them, some of them thought it would 
be from here way out to 2100. But most of them have it, it could start 
or would start fairly quickly.

I have one more chart, and then I've got to close very quickly 
because time is running out. This chart shows quality of life and how 
good you feel about


your station in life compared to how much energy you use. How good you 
feel about life, how much energy you use: the United States out here 
using more energy than anybody else; 24 countries use less energy than 
we and feel better about their quality of life than we.

Now, my wife tells me I shouldn't be talking about these things 
because don't I remember that in ancient Greece they killed the 
messenger that brought bad news. I tell her this is a good-news story. 
The sooner we start, the easier the trip will be. I'm really 
exhilarated by this. There's no exhilaration like the exhilaration of 
meeting and overcoming a big challenge. This is a huge challenge. We 
have the most innovative, creative society in the world. Properly 
informed and properly motivated, I think we're equal to the challenge. 
I see this as a very challenging fun future, where we really have 
something we can all pull together to accomplish.

I hope we'll be back here next week, and at that time I want to spend 
most of the time talking about what are the potential replacements for 
oil, what are the potentials, and which are the most promising, and 
what do we need to do.
