---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `cab829cf6dca1b70d993150d5f70af7f`
`Mr. HINCHEY — 30 July 2009`

---


Mr. HINCHEY. Mr. Chairman, I just want to make it clear that we're 
dealing with a situation here which is critically important to military 
personnel both here in the United States and in many places around the 
world.



I'm sure that the sponsor of this amendment doesn't realize what it's 
like not to have a roof over your head, but if you're in the military 
and you're stationed out in places that are difficult and hazardous to 
deal with, it's important to have these tents.

The particular entity with which we are focusing attention on in this 
particular earmark to provide these tents is a company that has done so 
over and over again in the context of bidding--and bidding 
successfully--for it. The Army and Marine Corps, just as an example, 
currently have unmet needs for shelters, and those unmet needs are 
growing.

This year, the tent and shelter industry was informed by the Marine 
Corps--just by the Marine Corps--of a need of 9,000 tents. 
Unfortunately, those real priorities are not resulting in production 
orders. And the main reason they're not resulting in production orders 
is due to the way in which the Department of Defense has focused on 
other things and not dealing with this particular aspect of the needs 
of military personnel in a number of places, here and in a lot of other 
places which are dangerous around the world, Iraq, Afghanistan, places 
like that, for example. So without this stop-gap funding for these 
shelter programs, our troops could literally be without that roof over 
their head.

The Defense Logistics Agency had stated that the tent and shelter 
industry is a critical part of the U.S. defense industrial base, and 
they did that in the context of a report to the Congress. So supporting 
this amendment by Mr. Campbell will leave the United States military 
with a smaller, less competitive, and potentially foreign source of 
this essential material which is needed by our military personnel.

You're dealing with something that is fundamentally essentially 
important. And in the context of this particular situation, if we 
didn't deal with it in this particular way, perhaps these manufacturing 
operations would come from places outside the United States. There are 
a lot of people here, apparently, who are opposed to many of the things 
that we're doing, who are not opposed to having manufacturing 
activities in other parts of the world and not here.

So this is what we are intending to do, to make sure that the 
military gets the security, the safety that they need and, at the same 
time, to ensure in every way that we can that the manufacturing process 
is done here in the United States so that these jobs are going to be an 
important part of our dealing with this economic recession, which was 
put forward over the course of the previous 8 years and is now 
something that we are dealing with effectively.

So if you're opposed to this earmark, it really doesn't make any 
sense. If you're opposed to the amendment, that makes perfect sense. 
And that is exactly what we're doing, for all of the


good reasons that I have stipulated, and that's why this amendment 
should remain as an important part of this absolutely essential piece 
of legislation.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.