---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `cabc29d8a801a009834f89a3376373d3`
`Mr. SKELTON — 16 January 2008`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I rise today in strong support of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for the Fiscal Year 2008, a bill which we will today consider for 
the third time on the House floor and which has been revised to address 
the objections expressed by the President. I strongly believe, Madam 
Speaker, that this bill is one of the most important pieces of 
legislation passed by this Congress and I must say one of the very 
best, if not the best, defense authorization bills that I can recall 
during my time in Congress. And I am so extremely proud, Madam Speaker, 
of all the members of the Armed Services Committee as well as all those 
who have worked hard in and out of our committee to make it happen.



A special thanks to our wonderful staff, our crack staff, for the 
hard work that they have done to get us where we are today, with a bill 
that will be signed by the President, and the recipients of the 
benefits of this bill will be those young men and young women in 
uniform.

Last night, we disposed of the President's veto of an earlier version 
of this bill. That veto was a surprise, frankly, to all of us. Today, 
we move on. We send a final version to the President that his aides 
have indicated he will sign. The changes to the conference report, 
which we passed in the House by a vote of 370-49, and passed the Senate 
by 90-3, are minimal. Only one section, section 1083, dealing with 
claims against countries that are or have been state sponsors of 
terrorism, caused a problem for the administration that led to this 
veto.

This bill before us includes a compromise on that provision we worked 
out on a bipartisan basis with the body on the other side of the 
Capitol, as well as with the White House, and it allows the President 
to waive the application of the section under consideration to the 
government of Iraq, while also expressing the sense of the Congress 
that the President should negotiate with the government of Iraq to 
satisfy the legitimate claims that American citizens have against that 
country and its former leader, Saddam Hussein.

The only other changes made to the bill were those required to make 
retroactive the pay increases and many benefit improvements provided 
for the military servicemembers as well as their families. Those 
provisions will be made effective under this bill as of January 1 of 
this year, as would have been the case had the President signed the 
original bill that was before you.

This is a good bill. I think it's the best defense bill in decades 
that this Congress has put forward. It's good for our troops, good for 
their families, it will help improve the readiness of our Armed Forces, 
and it will bring significant oversight to the Department of Defense in 
much needed areas where oversight was so needed in the past.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.