---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `cac0b398c24ae6157a737cb518b1a8e9`
`Mr. HOLT — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, America begins the fifth year of war in Iraq. 
I am pleased that Speaker Pelosi has scheduled such a thorough debate 
of the most important moral and political issue of the day. The war in 
Iraq was misguided from the outset, even illegal, and has been 
mismanaged consistently ever since.

The resolution we have before us today puts Congress on record 
opposing the escalation of troops in Iraq proposed by President Bush 
and expressing our steadfast support for our troops.

Let me say at the outset that I intend to vote for this resolution. 
It is an important first step. The President's escalation of forces in 
Iraq is worse than the stay-the-course strategy so clearly rejected by 
Americans. If we pass this resolution, we will be doing more than 
repudiating the President's disastrous policy. We will for the first 
time be putting Congress on record in a way that will allow us to bring 
this war to an end for Americans.

Mr. Speaker, U.S. Armed Forces who are serving in Iraq are heroes. 
They are the most finely trained and dedicated group of patriots any 
leader could want. But they now find themselves mired in the middle of 
intense violence, based on sectarian, political, social and cultural 
factors dating back 1,000 years.

The situation in Iraq cannot be solved militarily. Pretending 
otherwise only puts our soldiers, marines and others in greater danger. 
I have visited them in theater, in Iraq and other countries in the 
region and, yes, at Walter Reed Hospital here in Washington.

I have met with their families in New Jersey. The quality of these 
men and women, their earnest wish to serve their country makes this 
situation all the more tragic.

Mr. Speaker, they were sent to Iraq irresponsibly and in ignorance by 
leaders, sometimes improperly equipped, and are now asked to achieve an 
impossible mission. There is no way for us to resolve militarily the 
emerging multifaceted civil war that is engulfing Iraq.

When he ordered the invasion of Iraq, President Bush unleashed forces 
he did not understand and could not control. As the most recent 
National Intelligence Estimate attests: ''The term civil war does not 
adequately capture the complexity of the conflict in Iraq, which 
includes extensive Shia-on-Shia violence and al Qaeda and Sunni 
insurgent attacks on coalition forces and widespread criminally 
motivated violence.''

Whenever American forces leave Iraq, there will not be a stable 
American-style liberal democracy. Prolonging the occupation of Iraq 
whose stability has only declined by any measure as our presence goes 
on increases the costs we incur in lives, dollars, and international 
prestige.

No one will look back and say, if only the American military stayed a 
little longer. No, historians will look back and ask what took Congress 
so long to recognize a disaster and do something about it. Extracting 
American troops from this quagmire will dry up support for the various 
insurgencies operating in Iraq, and encourage other nations to take 
part in the process of stabilizing the country and promote the domestic 
processes necessary for long-term stability.

Given all of those factors, the burden should not be on those who 
believe that American forces should be withdrawn. The burden should be 
on those who want to continue this endeavor to show any compelling 
evidence that is worth sending more Americans to kill and to be killed.

Sending more troops should require the same high standard of evidence 
that should have been met to go to war in the first place.



But the President and, I am sorry to say, the previous Congresses did 
not apply that high standard. Some of us said 4 years ago that there 
was not evidence sufficiently compelling to send Americans to kill and 
to die. After the President went to war anyway, I called for withdrawal 
early.



Now, Congress must establish standards that we failed to set, 
standards of intelligence and evidence, standards of diplomacy, 
standards of legislative oversight, so that we do not go to war or 
escalate wars based on ideology rather than evidence, bravado rather 
than humility, patriotic fervor rather than patient diplomacy.

Congress failed in its constitutional role to exert a check and 
balance on the Executive. With this resolution we begin on a new 
course, under new legislative leadership. We will audit the books. We 
will review the procedures for detaining prisoners, for engaging 
civilians, for conducting intelligence.

Mr. Speaker, it is time for President Bush to catch up with the 
American people. The American people understand that American forces 
should not remain in Iraq to try to quell a civil war they cannot 
control. The American people understand that we must refocus our 
attention on our real interests. If the President did not, let us show 
at least that we do and pass this resolution.