# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `caed3dded98b893605b31d88fc08a6e1`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 10 June 2010`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, today I honor MAJ Ronald W. Culver, Jr., 
44, of El Dorado. Major Culver was killed May 24 in Numaniyah, Iraq, in 
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. According to initial reports, Major 
Culver died of injuries sustained when an improvised explosive device 
detonated near his vehicle. Major Culver was assigned to the 2nd 
Squadron, 108th Calvary, Army National Guard, Shreveport, LA.

My heart goes out to the family of Major Culver, who made the 
ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our Nation. Major Culver's wife and 
children reside in El Dorado. His mother and father live in Shreveport, 
LA.

As a member of the Louisiana National Guard, Major Culver served 
three tours of duty in Iraq. During his military career, he was awarded 
numerous service medals and was posthumously awarded two Bronze Stars 
and a Purple Heart, as well as a Combat Action Badge from the State of 
Louisiana.

Culver was an active member of the El Dorado community, serving in 
various capacities with Boy Scouts, Campfire Girls, Union County 4-H 
Foundation board, Saddle Club, Main Street El Dorado, and the John C. 
Carroll VFW Post 2413, where he was the post commander at the time of 
his death.

Along with all Arkansans, I am grateful for the service and sacrifice 
of all of our military servicemembers and their families. More than 
11,000 Arkansans on Active Duty and more than 10,000 Arkansas 
reservists have served in Iraq or Afghanistan since September 11, 2001.

It is the responsibility of our Nation to provide the tools necessary 
to care for our country's returning servicemembers and honor the 
commitment our Nation made when we sent them into harm's way. Our 
grateful Nation will not forget them when their military service is 
complete. It is the least we can do for those whom we owe so much.
