---
---

# None
## `caf32cb184dee2c1e379b8700577b6d1`
`Mr. DORGAN — 14 July 2009`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I will perhaps come back later to speak on 
the F-22 and the work my colleagues, Senator Levin and Senator McCain, 
have done. But I want to speak about another amendment I have offered 
that I hope might gain acceptance as we move forward, and that is an 
amendment to the Defense authorization bill that would require 
contracting officials in the Pentagon to take into account evidence of 
bad past performance by a contractor when deciding who should get 
future contracts.

You might think that contracting officials would already be required 
to take past performance into account. But the fact is, that is not now 
required over in the Pentagon. I want to go through some thoughts with 
you about this issue very quickly.

I have held 19 hearings on contractor waste, fraud, and abuse. I have 
to say, going back some years now, we have had the greatest amount of 
waste and fraud and abuse by contractors than we have seen in the 
history of this country. Let me give you some examples.

Shown on this chart is a man named Efraim Diveroli, 22 years old. Oh, 
by the way, he is the CEO of a company. That is right, the president 
and CEO of a company. The company is a shell company his father used to 
have. But he took it over, and he hired a vice president, as a matter 
of fact. The vice president's name is David Packouz, 25 years old, the 
former vice president of the company. He is a massage therapist. So 
this is a company in Miami, FL, that does business out of an unmarked 
door. Through the best evidence, there are only two employees--a 22-
year-old president and a 25-year-old massage therapist who is the vice 
president. Well, guess what. These two guys got $300 million in 
contracts from the U.S. Government. Can you imagine, $300 million in 
contracts from the Pentagon?

There have been arrests in this case. But the question is, Why? I 
called a three-star general to my office to say: How on Earth could you 
have done that? How could you possibly have done that? Did you not 
check?

I checked. These guys also had some small contracts with the State 
Department which turned out to be bad contracts. But they could have at 
least done a small amount of checking before committing $300 million of 
the American taxpayers' money. What they did for that money was ship a 
bunch of shoddy products over to Afghanistan to the military, bullets 
and guns that were dated from the 1960s. That is one of the reasons 
this company and these fellows ran afoul of the law. But the question 
is, How did all this happen?

This guy, as shown in this picture, with a striped shirt is named 
Frank Willis. This is he, in the striped shirt. He is holding a Saran-
wrapped pack of money. This is part of a couple million dollars that 
went to a company called Custer Battles. This is he, by the way, in 
Iraq. He said: Our motto was, You bring a bag because we pay cash. He 
is talking about defense contracting.



Custer Battles is alleged to have taken--they were going to provide 
security for the Baghdad Airport, which had no commercial airplanes 
flying in and out. It was alleged they took the forklift trucks off the 
airport and put them in some sort of machine shed and repainted them 
blue and then sold them to the Coalition Provisional Authority. So you 
bring a bag because we pay cash, it was said.

Here is what the guy over at the Baghdad Airport said. I am just 
telling you all this because I held 19 hearings. I have done 19 of 
them. Here is what the guy who is the airport director of security said 
in a memo to the Coalition Provisional Authority. Here is what he said 
about Custer Battles, which was given the contract. They got over $100 
million in contracts.




 Custer Battles have shown themselves to be unresponsive, 


 uncooperative, incompetent, deceitful, manipulative and war 


 profiteers. Other than that they are swell fellows.


Think of it. So what do we think of these contractors? They got a lot 
of the taxpayers' money.

This is a picture of Cheryl Harris with her son Ryan Maseth, a Green 
Beret, Special Forces. Ryan, unfortunately, tragically was killed in 
Iraq--no, he was not shot by some insurgent; he was electrocuted in the 
shower. His mother Cheryl was told that they thought maybe he went into 
the shower carrying a radio and therefore was electrocuted. It turns 
out that was not the case at all. The fact is, he took a shower in a 
place where the wiring had been done improperly. Why? Because Kellogg, 
Brown, and Root, which was paid to do the wiring, hired third-country 
nationals in most cases who could not speak English and did not know 
the wiring codes, and they wired up a shower and this poor soldier lost 
his life because he was electrocuted in the shower.

I held hearings about that. Eric Peters, who was working in Iraq as 
an electrician, said: Third-country nationals performed the majority of 
KBR's electrical work. Most have absolutely no knowledge of the 
National Electric Code or British Standards, and the quality of their 
work reflects that. Much of this work is not clearly inspected by 
licensed electricians. I personally have refused to sign off on work 
they have performed because I knew it was not up to code. That is what 
we paid for, and some soldiers have lost their lives.

This list goes on and on and on.

Eric Peters, a brave soul who worked in Iraq to do electrical work, 
worked for KBR. He came back and testified: I concluded that KBR was 
not capable of performing quality, legal, electric installations in 
Iraq. I worried every day that people would be seriously injured or 
killed by this defective work.

The reason I want to tell you about this is, not only have soldiers 
lost their lives, but the task orders for which that work was done 
resulted in award fees, bonus fees, to the company that did shoddy 
work.

As a result of my hearing, they sent a task force over to investigate 
all of the buildings in Iraq. The fact is, we have testimony and 
evidence that there was a massive amount of wiring that was done 
improperly that put soldiers at risk. Yet the Pentagon provided award 
fees, which are fees designed only for excellent performance, of $83 
million of the taxpayers' money to a company that did shoddy work; work 
sufficient so we had to come back around and do what is called, I 
believe, a corrective action request order, where you had to go back 
and inspect everything and redo the work. The question is, How is all 
this going on?

Let me describe the story of Bunny Greenhouse. A lot of people do not 
know Bunny Greenhouse. What an extraordinary person she is. She grew up 
in southern Louisiana in a family who had nothing. Two in their family 
teach college. Her brother is Elvin Hayes, one of the top 50 basketball 
players of all time. Bunny Greenhouse has a couple of master's degrees, 
is very well educated, and rose to become the highest civilian in the 
Corps of Engineers over in the Pentagon. Here is what she testified to 
with respect to some of the contracting that went on. She lost her job 
as a result of having the courage to speak publicly.




 I can unequivocally state that the abuse related to 


 contracts awarded to KBR represents the most blatant and 


 improper contract abuse I have witnessed during the course of 


 my professional career.


For that, she lost her job.

It is not just KBR. I mentioned Custer Battles, Efraim Diveroli. How 
about Parsons Corporation?

This, by the way, is a photograph every American should remember when 
you talk about waste and fraud and abuse. This is called ''The Whale.'' 
This picture is a picture of a prison in Iraq that was never completed 
and will never be used. Mr. President, $31 million was paid to the 
Parsons Corporation for building a prison the Iraqis said they did not 
want and would not use. The $31 million was colossally wasted in 
unbelievably bad construction. That is after this same company was 
given a couple hundred million dollars to rehabilitate 140 health 
clinics in Iraq, and we were told later that most of those health 
clinics are imaginary, quote/unquote. They do not exist. Well, the 
money is gone. The $200 million is gone. But the health clinics are 
imaginary.

Well, the same company was contracted to build the prison in Iraq. It 
is called the Kahn Bani Sa'ad prison, but it is referred to as ''The 
Whale.'' Here is what it looks like, as shown in this picture. We spent 
$40 million. The first $31 million was paid to Parsons. Another $9 
million was paid to an Iraqi contractor. And here it sits in the 
desert, never ever to be used, paid for by the American taxpayer, and 
paid to contractors who did shoddy work and were kicked off the site.

The question is, What do we do about all that?

I have proposed an amendment that is pretty simple. It is 
interesting. There is currently no requirement that contracting 
officials over in the DOD have to take into account shoddy work 
practices or shoddy performances by contractors. There is a requirement 
they take into account criminal actions, civil fines, that are leveled 
against contractors. But there is no requirement they must consider bad 
past performance. It is unbelievable, but it is true.

I offer an amendment that says, Do you know what, the time is past 
when bad performance by big contractors gets you a slap on the wrist 
and a pat on the back and another contract. It is time--long past the 
time--we put an end to this.

I know my colleagues, Senator Levin and Senator McCain, feel strongly 
about this issue as well. I appreciate the work they have done. All of 
us need to do everything we can to assure the American taxpayers they 
are getting their money's worth. Defense is something we invest in for 
this country. It is very important.

As I conclude, I want to say this: I put together a chart, and I am 
going to speak about it in the next day or two. But it relates to this 
question of the F-22. This chart shows Federal budget deficits. We are 
on an unsustainable path. It is not a Republican path or a Democratic 
path. It is just an unsustainable path that cannot work for this 
country's future.

Take a look at this chart. Here is the middle of a deep recession, 
$1.9 trillion in deficits, and then it gets a little better, and then 
goes back down.

We are on an unsustainable path, and it does not matter what you are 
talking about, whether you are talking about an airplane or some other 
area of Federal budget responsibility. We finally have to decide: 
Things have changed. We have to invest in things that provide dividends 
for this country's future. We cannot continue to spend money we do not 
have on things we do not need. That is not a sustainable course for 
this country.

So I will speak more about these issues, including the F-22, at some 
other point. But let me thank my colleague, Senator Levin, and my 
colleague, Senator McCain as well.