---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `cb11c7f32212374f95e492d32361a3f3`
`Mr. WEBB — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, this is a very difficult time for those of 
us who have long known that the war in Iraq was a strategic error of 
monumental proportions but who also understand the practical realities 
of disengagement. The majority of this country believes we need to 
readjust our Iraq policy and get our combat forces off the streets of 
Iraq's cities. A majority of our military believes this 
administration's approach is not working. A majority of the Congress 
believes we need a new approach.

There are sound, realistic alternatives that could be pursued toward 
the eventual goal of removing our troops from Iraq, increasing the 
political stability of that war-torn region, increasing our capability 
to defeat the forces of international terrorism, and allowing our 
country to focus on larger strategic priorities that have now gone 
untended for years. Unfortunately, few of these alternatives seem to 
make it to the House or Senate floor in a form that would truly impact 
policy.

With respect to the approaches that have been taken recently, let me 
first say I am somewhat cynical about the stack of benchmarks that have 
appeared in recent bills laying down a series of requirements to the 
Iraqi Government. The reality is that the Iraqi Government is a weak 
government. Like the Lebanese Government 20 years ago, it has very 
little power, and it is surrounded by a multiplicity of armed factions 
which have overwhelming power in their own concentrated areas of 
activity.

Too often, the benchmarks that we, in our splendid isolation, decide 
to impose are little more than feel-good measures, giving us the 
illusion that we are doing something meaningful. Just to make them more 
illusory, the language we send over on benchmarks and other policies, 
such as unit readiness and length of deployment, are usually couched 
with waivers, so the President can simply ignore the language, anyway. 
What does this do? How can we continue these actions and then claim to 
the American people that we are really solving the most troubling issue 
of our era? Some of these discussions remind me of what Mark Twain once 
wrote, saying that the Government in Washington is like 2,000 ants 
floating down the river on a log, each one thinking they are driving 
it.

Secondly, let me say that I admire the intentions of the bill my 
colleague, Senator Feingold, introduced today. However, I could not 
vote for that bill because an arbitrary cutoff date for funding 
military operations in Iraq might actually work against the country's 
best interests in an environment where we have finally seen some 
diplomatic efforts from this administration. Recent initiatives from 
Secretary of State Rice, Ambassador Crocker, and Admiral Fallon, the 
new commander of Central Command, hold out the hope, if not the 
promise, that we might actually start to turn this thing around.

Admiral Fallon has publicly stated that we must deal with Iran and 
Syria. Ambassador Crocker, at this moment, is arranging a diplomatic 
exchange with Iran. Secretary of State Rice has cooperated at the 
ministerial level in an environment where her Iranian counterpart was 
also at the table. Importantly, Admiral Fallon mentioned during his 
recent confirmation hearing that it is not the number of troops in Iraq 
that is important but the uses to which they are being put.

So there is some room for movement here, as long as the movement 
occurs in a timely fashion. An arbitrary cutoff date would, at this 
point, take away an important negotiating tool. Let us just hope they 
use the tools we are providing them in an effective manner.

There is, however, one issue which demands our immediate attention 
and which should not be delayed. As we look at our options here in 
Congress, I continue to firmly believe we have a duty in an area which 
is not being properly addressed by this administration and which is in 
the proper purview of the Congress. When the supplemental 
appropriations bill is returned to the President, it should contain 
language prohibiting this administration from deploying Army units for 
longer than 12 months and from deploying Marine Corps units for longer 
than 210 days. It should also prohibit sending


any military individual overseas unless he or she has been home from a 
previous tour for at least as long as they had been deployed. In other 
words, if you have been gone a year, you should come home for a year 
before you go back.

This administration has gone to the well again and again, extending 
the length of military tours and shortening the time our soldiers and 
marines are allowed to be at home before being sent again and again 
into Iraq and Afghanistan. Absent the gravest national emergency, there 
is no strategy in Iraq or elsewhere that justifies what has been 
happening with the deployment cycles of the men and women we are 
sending into harm's way. It has reached the point that the good will 
and dedication of our military people are being abused by policymakers 
obsessed with various experimental strategies being conducted at their 
expense. These people have put their lives literally into the hands of 
our national leadership. There are limits to human endurance, and there 
are limits to what military families can be expected to tolerate in the 
name of the national good. For that reason, I urge our conferees to 
include language which will limit this policy in the bill that will be 
returned to the President.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.