---
---

# IRAQ
## `cb12002fb6ee183ef798efdcde9aa4c3`
`Mr. BOND â€” 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I spoke briefly this morning about the need 
to have votes on the Republican resolutions--the Republican Gregg 
resolution and the bipartisan Lieberman-McCain resolution. It is very 
important we give the opportunity for this body to go on record saying, 
No. 1, they do support and will not cut off funding for our troops in 
Iraq. That needs to be said in the Gregg resolution.

It is unusual and very unfortunate that at this time, when we are 
actually at war, we are considering resolutions which would say: Well, 
we don't support sending more troops over. We are actually sending 
troops over, and there are some who want to say: Well, we don't support 
the mission; good luck, guys and gals; you are going over, but we don't 
support what you are doing.

We owe them more than that. We owe them what used to be the baseline 
in our discussions. Unfortunately, in time of war, we can debate and we 
should debate. However, the Levin-Warner resolution, the only 
resolution at this point the majority would let us vote on, sends a 
wrong message to the insurgents, militia, and, obviously, to our 
troops.

This is a very serious and difficult situation in Iraq, no question 
about it. We got the national intelligence estimate, and it says these 
are tough times. But--and I agree with my colleague from Florida--we 
cannot afford to fail.

During General Petraeus's testimony before the Armed Services 
Committee last week, he chillingly described the typical Iraqi 
terrorist as ''determined, adaptable, barbaric'' and that ''he will try 
to wait us out.''

And now we are considering a resolution signaling to this enemy that 
this body doesn't think the terrorists will have to wait too long. By 
capping the troop strength, this resolution limits the very leaders 
this body confirmed as fit to lead and determine strategies and levels 
of troops.

The proponents of the resolution to limit troop strength must now 
believe that sitting here 8,000 miles away, this body is more equipped 
than our military leaders to say what our force structure should be in 
Iraq. That is unacceptable; it is totally unacceptable.

The question has been raised: Will this plan work? There are lots of 
challenges. It is a challenging situation. The intelligence community, 
in its National Intelligence Estimate, says there are many difficult 
factors; it is a complex situation. But they said this is the best we 
can hope to do. This is our best effort to make sure something comes 
out that provides a stable Iraq, one that will not be a haven for 
terrorist groups such as al-Qaida to operate.

The intelligence community was also very forthright, both in the NIE 
that we received last week and in testimony several weeks earlier in an 
open hearing of the Intelligence Committee. They said if we cut and 
run, Iraq would descend into chaos, giving the terrorist groups, such 
as al-Qaida and probably the Shia terrorist groups, the chance to 
operate freely in that country. It would lead to slaughter of more and 
more Iraqis--innocent Iraqis--and it would likely involve the entire 
region.

It is clear that cutting and running should not be an option. There 
may be some people who would vote to cut off funding. We ought to let 
them have a chance at least to say we want to end it now, not we want 
to tinker with the military strategy so perhaps we can gain some 
political points at home.

I have heard it said that some of the people who are supporting the 
Levin-Warner resolution think we should be following the guidelines of 
the Iraq Study Group. I had the opportunity on Sunday to ask Jim Baker 
is this military plan the military plan you have supported? He said: 
Yes, it is.

Others have said we need a new strategy, and I agree. I agree we 
shouldn't have gone forward with debaathification and disbanding the 
Iraqi Army. That mistake is behind us. But we need a new strategy that 
can lead us to victory in Iraq.

It seems to me the place where we want to be is getting the Iraqi 
Government, al-Maliki and his Sunni and Kurdish counterparts in the 
Government, to take responsibility and say we are going to establish 
stability, we are going to end the insurgency. To do that, they have 
said: We need the support of American troops, not to be on the 
frontlines--and I agree with those who said we want to move the Iraqis 
out front when they are stopping the Shia and Sunni violence; that is 
where they should be. We still have a role, and we can play a very 
important role in helping to take out the al-Qaida leadership and the 
other organized international radical Islamist terrorists, whether they 
be Shia or Sunni, and we can do that. That is part of what the troop 
surge will do. But we need to have them take over, and we need to train 
them.

The intelligence community said the police are not ready to take over 
now. We have found that when we embed American troops, provide American 
troops in smaller numbers but with Iraqis, they function better. We can 
help show them how to win, and that is a plan I think we ought to 
pursue because what is the cost if we lose? Iraq is the center point in 
the war on terror. And unfortunately, we have no better source than 
Osama bin Laden, who says:




 I now address my speech to the whole of the Islamic Nation: 


 Listen and understand. The issue is big and the misfortune is 


 momentous. The most important and serious issue today for the 


 whole world is this Third World War, which the Crusader-


 Zionist coalition began against the Islamic Nation. It is 


 raging in the land of the two rivers. The world's millstone 


 and pillar is in Baghdad, the capital of the caliphate.


That is what he calls Baghdad, ''the capital of the caliphate.'' 
There are similar transmissions by Ayman al-Zawahiri, who said: ''We 
must have Iraq as our caliphate.'' So we have to wait. We have to make 
sure we stabilize the area.

It seems to me this is absolutely the best plan than fiddling around 
and adopting a resolution that says, no, we don't need 21,000 more 
troops. Some of the same people who said earlier this year and last 
year that we need more troops now are saying no, no, 21,000 more troops 
is not necessary. Whom are we going to believe, someone standing on the 
floor of the Senate or the commanding general who has responsibility 
for making sure that our troops accomplish their mission and they are 
safe? If he says we need those troops, I wish to vote for a resolution 
that says we need those troops. I wish to vote for a resolution that 
says we shouldn't cut off funding; we need to support our troops when 
they are in the field.

What is at stake in this resolution deserves a commitment that goes 
far


beyond what the political pundits and political operatives pontificate 
in Washington. I don't say all the people supporting this resolution 
have a desire to undercut our troops, to send the wrong message to our 
allies in the region or to encourage al-Qaida and Jaysh al-Mahdi. But, 
unfortunately, that is what this resolution can do.

I had the honor today of talking with the head of the intelligence 
agency of one of our allies in the region. I said: What message would 
it send to your country if we adopt a resolution saying the President 
can't send over more troops? He said: That would be very bad because we 
want to see peace and stability survive in Iraq. It is vitally 
important to the entire region, and we are prepared to help the 
coalition make sure stability is achieved. We want to make sure Iran 
doesn't take over that country, that chaos doesn't ensue, and we--and 
he was speaking for several of the countries in the region--we want to 
provide aid to help rebuild the economy so there will be a stable 
economy because a stable economy is one of the best ways to convince 
people they don't need to get 25 bucks from setting out an improvised 
explosive device along the roadside.

So we would be sending a bad message to our allies, and we would be 
sending a message of great hope to the people of al-Qaida.

That is not what we ought to be doing, Mr. President. What is at 
stake deserves a commitment that goes far beyond the political pundits. 
Those who call for an end to the war don't want to talk about the fact 
that the war in Iraq will not end but, in fact, will only grow more 
dangerous if we leave with that country in chaos.

So as we debate these resolutions, Congress's role in the Iraq policy 
is clear: Either Congress needs to exercise its constitutional powers 
of the purse and cut funding for the operations of the troops, which is 
madness, or get behind them. We shouldn't confirm General Petraeus and 
then say: Oh, but we don't support your plan. So if we are not using 
our power of the purse to cut off funds and force a hasty withdrawal, 
what are we doing? Are we telling 21,000 brave men and women who will 
be going to Iraq that we are uncomfortable with the dangerous mission 
you are about to undertake but not offering any alternative? I am sure 
our troops would find that encouraging.

Simply put, this may be a situation where there are good politics, 
but these good politics equal bad policy. Politics are trumping good 
policy.

A headline in today's Roll Call reads: ''Democrats to Launch PR Blitz 
on Iraq Vote.''




 . . . Senate Democrats are launching a national public 


 relations campaign aimed at tying GOP moderates and 


 incumbents facing difficult 2008 re-election races to Bush in 


 the public's mind, Democratic leadership aides said Monday.


Is that what this is all about? Is that the politics? I think that is 
a very sad message.

What is at stake is so much bigger than politics, bigger than the 
2008 election, and it is a real disservice to our troops to see our 
national security become a political election gamble.

I previously entered into the Record an article about 12 days ago by 
Robert Kagan, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for 
International Peace and transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall 
Fund. He wrote a piece saying it is a grand delusion if we think we can 
walk away from Iraq and not solve it. He went on to say:




 Democratic and Republican Members of Congress are looking 


 for a different kind of political solution: the solution to 


 their problems in presidential primaries and elections almost 


 2 years off.


This is coming, as he indicates in his article, just as American 
soldiers are finally beginning the hard job of establishing a measure 
of peace, security, and order in critical sections of Baghdad.

He goes on to say:




 They have launched attacks on Sunni insurgent strongholds 


 and begun reining in Moqtada al-Sadr's militia.


And, finally, he concludes, and it is fitting advice for this body:




 Politicians in both parties should realize that success in 


 this mission is in their interest, as well as the Nation's. 


 Here's a wild idea: Forget the political posturing, be 


 responsible, and provide the moral and material support our 


 forces need and expect.


Mr. President, I hope we will vote on resolutions that do that.

I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.