---
---

# DWELL TIME
## `cb1fb717ced41d3ae754216c391dd5b7`
`Mr. LEVIN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, over 4 years of war have stressed our 
Armed Forces to the breaking point. Our Army and Marine Corps are 
stretched dangerously thin. They are performing magnificently, as they 
always do. Chronic personnel and equipment shortages plague our 
nondeployed forces resulting in dangerously low readiness. As a nation, 
we simply do not have the ground forces necessary, nor are the few 
uncommitted forces trained and ready, to protect our interests against 
other threats around the world. As Army Chief of Staff GEN George Casey 
put it:




 The demand for our forces exceeds the sustainable supply.


Nearly 1.6 million servicemembers have been deployed to Iraq or 
Afghanistan. Of the Army's 43 active brigades available for rotation, 
10 brigades have been deployed three or more times. All others have 
been deployed once or twice, with the exception of one new brigade just 
forming. Of course, the single brigade stationed in Korea does not 
deploy as part of the Iraq or Afghanistan rotation. All of our National 
Guard combat brigades have at least one rotation to Iraq, Afghanistan, 
or


Kosovo. Two National Guard combat brigades have two rotations. Guard 
brigades from Indiana, Arkansas, Ohio, Oklahoma, Minnesota, and New 
York have been notified that they should be prepared to deploy at the 
end of this year.

Through the first part of this year, units pushed to Iraq as part of 
the surge strategy barely had enough time to make up their personnel 
and equipment shortages or complete their training. Inadequate time to 
prepare for war puts a unit at risk when sent into harm's way.

We have the responsibility to make sure that our forces have adequate 
time available to prepare and then use that time to best advantage. We 
have accepted too much risk for too long.

Senator Webb's amendment goes to the heart of this obligation, 
ensuring that our forces have the time they need to recover and 
prepare. Multiple rotations and insufficient dwell time inherently 
raise readiness risks. Units must have the time necessary to fully man, 
equip, and train prior to their next deployment. Readiness reports we 
receive here in Congress consistently show that most of our nondeployed 
units are not ready to deploy, and those getting ready to deploy to 
Iraq and Afghanistan do not have personnel and equipment necessary for 
comprehensive training until very late in their preparation. In order 
to provide some relief for the personnel shortages in next-to-deploy 
units, the Army is cutting training at its important officer and NCO 
schools. The Army has gone so far as to institute a 6-day training week 
at many of these schools to accelerate getting troops back to their 
units. For soldiers, especially young leaders and instructors just back 
from deployment, working a 6-day week starts to make dwell time feel a 
lot like deployment. Insufficient dwell time contributes to retention 
challenges, especially among young officers.

There is ample evidence that multiple long deployments are impacting 
our troops' mental health and family stability. Servicemembers and 
their families, particularly among our young officers and NCOs, are 
voting with their feet, leaving the military rather than endure the 
uncertainty and turmoil in their families' lives. There is no greater 
threat to the quality and viability of our all-volunteer force than the 
loss of these combat-experienced young leaders.

The Webb amendment exempts our special operations forces. Their 
deployment cycles are always irregular, their readiness sustained at 
much higher levels, and their ability to respond to emergencies is 
critically important. The exemption in this amendment preserves that 
flexibility.

Servicemembers and their families are weary of the deployment cycle 
and uncertainty about timing and length of deployments. They are eager 
for greater predictability about when and for how long troops will be 
at home or deployed. The Webb amendment will require the DOD to make 
earlier strategic and operational decisions which will result in 
greater predictability and stability for troops and their families.

The Webb amendment will incentivize the Department of Defense to 
greater certainty in the implementation of unit and individual rotation 
policies. Controlling deployment cycles is the only way to rapidly stop 
the dramatic loss of readiness in our nondeployed and next-to-deploy 
units. Controlling deployment cycles is the only way to provide the 
fastest possible relief to our troops and their families. Controlling 
deployment cycles is a critical step in preserving our all-volunteer 
military system. The Webb amendment deserves the support of this 
Senate.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.