---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `cb27c4b99b7dd5cafb383927cf040705`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I wish to express my appreciation to 
Senator Levin and Senator Warner and the staff and other members of the 
Armed Services Committee who have worked hard to produce a bill that I 
think does the job pretty well to meet the challenges we have and at 
the same time has bipartisan support, which is important for passage as 
it is one of the realities of this Senate. So I think we have done 
fairly well.

I wish to share some thoughts about some issues in general.

I think it was Fareed Zakaria who wrote a book not too long ago 
noting that perhaps we had reached the end of history or beyond 
history. I understand he has since indicated that is not a viable 
philosophy anymore. I saw the cover, I believe, in the Weekly Standard 
recently which said: ''The Return of History.'' History teaches us that 
this is a dangerous world. We wish it were not so. We wish we did not 
have to have a Defense Department. We wish there were no such thing as 
war. I respect people who are prepared to be total pacifists in their 
lives, but for most of us who lack that kind of faith, we believe we 
have to be prepared to defend our legitimate national interests around 
the globe and do those things with courage and fidelity and to think 
ahead, to be prepared, and that peace is most often accomplished 
through strength. I believe we have a pretty good recognition of that 
in this bill, and that is why I support it out of committee.

I wish to note the unease we have seen in some of the nations of the 
world. We know about the rogue nations. But it has been very troubling, 
I have to say, what Russia is doing today. It seems in their 
statements, in their comments, in their actions, and in their military 
aggression that they are not seeking to align themselves with nations 
of good will that seek to work in ways that avoid military conflict, 
that act in ways that are just and fair to their neighbors. So that is 
a big problem, some of the things they have been saying to the Czech 
Republic and Poland about missile defense; some of the threats they 
have raised toward the Baltics; the military attack they launched in 
Georgia, their rhetoric in Georgia; their rhetoric toward the United 
States represents almost bizarre activity. That is something I had 
hoped wouldn't happen. I think President Bush has done everything he 
could, saying that he divined in examining Mr. Putin that he had a good 
heart, but it looks as if that heart is--if it was good then, it is 
getting darker and darker today. I just wish it weren't so, but I am 
afraid it is so.

We are looking at what is happening in China, whose economy continues 
to grow. There is a very nationalistic impulse in China. Their military 
is growing at a rapid pace. It is technologically advanced. We spend 
billions and billions of dollars on developing weapons systems and 
research and development. Too often, China steals that information and 
then produces a system that may well be comparable in some aspects for 
a far less investment than we put into it.

So those are things we face in the world today. I think a wise 
nation, a mature nation understands that you have to be prepared, that 
you have to be ready to defend your values, and that allowing nations 
that do not share our values to achieve military parity or advantage is 
not a good thing.

I wish to share, along those lines, a resolution I will be offering. 
It will be to call on this Senate to exercise its prerogative to make a 
statement through a sense-of-the-Senate resolution that we affirm the 
action taken by the Czech Republic and Poland to accept and participate 
in our goal of establishing a third site for missile defense in Europe. 
Missiles launched by Iran would pass over Europe before they reached 
the United States. Truly, Iran does not have that capability today, but 
our intelligence experts tell us they are moving forward with progress 
toward that goal. They also seem totally unrepentant with regard to 
their determination to build nuclear weapons, which is even more 
problematic as we think about the possibility that they could launch a 
nuclear weapon attack against our allies or even against the United 
States. Central Europe represents a good location to place another 
missile defense system.

I heard someone suggest: Well, the Russians have a right to be 
concerned. We were concerned when the Russians put missiles in Cuba. 
But, of course, those were offensive nuclear weapons designed to kill 
people. What we are talking about is operating with independent, 
sovereign nations to put a system up that would have limited capability 
to protect us from missile attack. It has no offensive capability. It 
is a defensive, peacekeeping weapons system.

For reasons that go beyond my comprehension, the Russians have 
apparently felt that they have a right to decide what the people of 
Poland do or what the people of the Czech Republic do. They are going 
to tell them that they can't have such a system. They at one time were 
under the Soviet boot, so now the Russians have a right to tell them 
that they can't--as an independent, sovereign, democratic Nation--make 
a decision that is in their interests and in the world's interests and 
in Europe's interests and in NATO's interests to place a limited 
missile defense system there. What kind of mentality is that? I say 
that because that ought to give us concern in this body. We ought to be 
concerned about that kind of mentality. It spilled out in a military 
attack in Georgia. It was not coincidental that while the Russian 
troops were still attacking in Georgia, high Government officials from 
Poland and the Ukraine and, I believe, Estonia came to Georgia and 
stood with them because they have a real sense that they might be next. 
They have not forgotten what Mr.


Putin said last year or the year before--less than 2 years ago. He said 
the greatest disaster of the 20th century was the collapse of the 
Soviet Union.


What does that have to say about Russia's mentality and approach to 
life today? We were at a NATO conference not too long ago, and one 
nation that had been under the Soviet Communist boot, in response to 
that, and after our discussion, said they thought that may have not 
been the worst thing in the 20th century. They said they thought it was 
the best thing that happened in the 20th century. That is the kind of 
reality we are dealing with in the world. It tells us we are not beyond 
history. History is here. It has not gone away.

We need to be very smart about how we utilize our limited financial 
resources to prepare ourselves for the future. These are problems we 
have to think about. Of course, we have the immediate threat of 
terrorism. We know the history of the attacks on the United States, on 
our warship, the USS Cole, in a neutral harbor; marines have been 
attacked; the Khobar Towers--by a group of people whose stated 
objective was to destroy us. Bin Laden declared war on the United 
States. That is what he said on his Web site--that he was at war with 
us. He killed so many of our people on 9/11, and destroyed the trade 
towers and attacked our own Pentagon, our own military headquarters 
right here in the United States. Is that not an act of war? Is that not 
consistent with a desire to destroy the United States? They had the 
Capitol or the White House in their sights, had it not been for the 
American heroes who took that plane down in Pennsylvania. So I guess we 
have to prepare for that. I wish it weren't so. I wish we could sit 
down with these terrorists and have a few hours of discussion and reach 
some accord that would result in us not having to prepare to spend 
billions of dollars to defend our interests around the world, and they 
would stop attacking us. But that is not likely to happen. That is not 
going to happen in the short term.

President Bush was right, fundamentally, in his decision that we 
would not sit on defense and wait to be attacked again. He made a 
fundamental decision that the best way to preserve, protect, and defend 
the United States of America is for our military to quit being on the 
defensive and allowing terrorists to be treated as a law enforcement 
problem and, after they attack you, you see if you cannot investigate 
and figure out who it is and perhaps prosecute somebody. We needed to 
defend America and stop the attacks before they came. That is what I 
believe history will give him high marks for. It has been going on 6 or 
7 years and we have not had another attack on this country. It has been 
a challenge for us. We have called on our military to perform to the 
highest level. We have sent them time and again into dangerous places. 
We have extended their deployment. We hated to do that, but we have 
done it. They have met the challenge and they have answered the call. 
They have been successful in protecting us. We don't know how things 
will come out, but I believe we will be able to see the government 
reach maturity in Iraq--a decent and good government that is a positive 
force in the world, and likewise in Afghanistan.

I think we should be prepared as a Senate to affirm the action of 
Poland in recent weeks to approve the deployment of 10 missile 
interceptors in Poland. That could be effective against an Iranian 
attack or maybe a mistake. It would not be enough to stop the hundreds 
of missiles the Russians have, for Heaven's sake. It would not be able 
to do that, but it would be able to protect Europe, and even the United 
States, from the long-range missiles that Iran is striving to build 
right now. It is also a good way to bind our countries in mutual 
security and mutual interests, and it affirms the Czechs' and the 
Poles' commitment to democracy and freedom, to the Western way of life, 
to the values we share, and a rejection on their part of terrorism and 
bullying. We will be offering that resolution, and I will talk more 
about it.

We also need to be sure that we follow through on the authorization 
to send this bill and actually see that the money gets appropriated in 
the next aspect of Defense spending. For example, I will note that our 
committee, I am most proud to say, has fully funded and given the 
authorization to fund the site for the Czechs and the Poles, who have 
supported the President's request in that regard. I think it was a very 
important decision on our committee. Other committees of the Congress 
that have relevant jurisdiction to put out the money have not been as 
supportive. I am proud that our committee has been. It is important for 
these other committees--it is important in the geopolitical world we 
are in that our friends, our allies, free sovereign nations, Poland and 
the Czech Republic, have stood up to pressure from Russia and they have 
stood up to leftist complaints, and they have agreed to deploy this 
system.

We ought to affirm it with a strong vote on this resolution and, 
ultimately, in passing an appropriation that is adequately funded. It 
is not going to be difficult to put this system in place. It would 
require some little differences in the missile system. We need a two-
stage instead of a three-stage rocket. That is not hard to adjust to. 
But the main guidance systems, the high technology, would be the same. 
We are on track to do this.

Our bill that Senators Levin and Warner have moved forward to the 
floor does the right thing. I hope this Congress will explicitly 
express our appreciation to the Poles and Czechs and reaffirm our 
commitment to financially complete that project.

I see other colleagues here. I yield the floor.