# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `cb2c224a2ecd30602e7a093f9f6317c0`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 3 February 2009`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. But this amendment doesn't only help the economy today 
by creating new jobs. This amendment will literally pave the way for 
future economic growth across the country. These investments will help 
communities provide cleaner drinking water and roads that are free of 
congestion. They will help create modern railroads that will get 
workers to their jobs more quickly and safely. They will help improve 
our ports so they are more efficient and more competitive. We all know 
businesses need good transportation and stable water and sewer systems. 
Less traffic means more productivity, cleaner air, and a stronger 
economy. These investments will pay off for years to come because 
communities will be stronger and more competitive in the global 
economy.

Finally, this amendment is critically needed because roads, bridges, 
and water and sewer systems are literally falling apart. Year after 
year, we have had to put off repairs, while we have spent billions of 
dollars in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. In August of 2007, we all 
stood aghast and watched in horror as the I-35W bridge in Minneapolis 
collapsed into the Mississippi River. That tragedy brought home to 
everyone how critical it is that we invest in the national highway 
system.

Last week, we had another reminder when the American Society of Civil 
Engineers issued its annual report card on the condition of America's 
infrastructure. The results were truly dismal. The leading experts on 
the state of our Nation's infrastructure have reduced the grade point 
average of our entire system of roads and bridges and transit and sewer 
plants to a D. Let me make it clear, that was a D average for all of 
the Nation's infrastructure. Several specific areas which I am 
targeting in the amendment did even worse. Wastewater treatment 
systems, on which I have worked with Senator Feinstein, got a D-minus. 
The engineers pointed out that leaking pipes across the country lose an 
estimated 7 billion gallons of drinking water each and every day. The 
Nation's roads got a D-minus since a third of the major roads are 
considered to be in poor or mediocre condition. More than a third of 
urban highways are congested. American families now spend about 4.2 
billion hours each year stuck in traffic. That is costing the economy 
almost $80 billion every single year. These are roads in every one of 
the States. It is time to fix them.

Our transit systems only got a D, but that is still not acceptable. 
With ridership skyrocketing, it could get worse, if we don't make the 
upgrades and improvements so dramatically needed.

Speaking as a mom and a former teacher, a D-minus or a D is not going 
to cut it. As far as I am concerned, when it comes to infrastructure, a 
D stands for disappointment. A D means demand change, demand attention, 
and demand investment.

The amendment I have offered is going to help us address these 
deficiencies head on and put over 655,000 Americans back to work. For 
any of my colleagues who are worried about whether we can spend 
infrastructure dollars fast enough, I want to be clear: More than a 
million workers across the country are today ready and able to start 
tomorrow. The unemployment rate in the construction industry is now 
just under 16 percent. More than 1.5 million construction workers are 
out of a job, a 54-percent increase over a year ago. Skilled workers 
all across the country are now forced to try to pick up whatever odd 
jobs they can to pay for their week's groceries. This amendment is 
about bringing jobs back to those workers and stability to their 
families and making the kinds of investments America has ignored for 
too long.

I am proposing in the amendment that we invest another $25 billion in 
this bill, bringing the total spending on infrastructure to $167 
billion. My amendment would increase transportation investments from 
$45.5 billion to more than $63.5 billion, with the largest boost going 
to highway construction. It would give all States and communities the 
equivalent of 2 years of Federal highway contributions at once, 
enabling them to support 362,000 construction jobs alone, and another 
$5 billion would go to mass transit, supporting 139,000 jobs. Senator 
Feinstein will discuss how it will increase water and sewer grants 
within the Environmental Protection Agency by $7 billion, supporting 
154,000 new jobs.

It is a scary time for millions of families across America. They are 
extremely worried about their stability and the future of their 
families. They are worried about how they will pay their bills and 
whether they will be able to keep their homes. They have put their 
faith in all of us and in our new President to set us on a path that 
will not only turn things around but leave our country stronger and 
more resilient than ever. Today they are watching this debate, and they 
are expecting us to take bold, swift action to get us started. This 
amendment is that kind of bold action. It supports 655,000 new, good-
paying jobs. It will help us rebuild roads, bridges, mass transit 
networks, water and sewer systems that we have neglected for too long. 
Most importantly, these investments will leave communities stronger and 
more secure in the future.

I urge my colleagues to support the amendment and help put thousands 
of American workers back on the job and the country back on its feet.