---
---

# SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS SERVING AS TRANSLATORS OR  INTERPRETERS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES
## `cb3da51b549aea14f1a6e60625200e26`
`Mr. FORTENBERRY — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. FORTENBERRY. I thank the gentleman from Florida. First, I should 
also thank my distinguished colleague, Mr. Berman of California, for 
his leadership on this important issue, his support and his 
partnership. I appreciate your efforts.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about the plight of courageous 
Iraqi and Afghani translators and interpreters who are assisting our 
military and our government. Given the vigorous and necessary debate 
about America's involvement in Iraq, this important humanitarian issue 
should not be overlooked. It warrants immediate attention as we move 
toward the stabilization of Iraq.

Every day in Iraq, and Afghanistan, American forces receive critical 
help, the kind of help essential for progress. An acute sense of duty 
has led thousands of Iraqis and Afghanis to aid American forces since 
late 2001.



Some of these brave men and women have worked alongside our troops 
providing invaluable assistance serving as translators and 
interpreters. Although they do not receive much attention, often by 
design, the translators and interpreters have been instrumental in 
supporting U.S. military operations. Mr. Speaker, they face mortal 
danger. They are considered traitors by the terrorist insurgents, and 
are targets often with bounties on their heads. Many find themselves 
without secure homes due to their dangerous work. They must conceal and 
vary their daily routines to preserve their safety. Most do not tell 
their immediate family about their work.

In 2006, the Defense Department authorization bill established a 
program that allows translators and interpreters who have worked for 
the U.S. military for at least 12 months to come to the U.S. on special 
visas. The program, as we have heard, allows up to 50 visas for Iraqi 
and Afghani translators each year. But since mid-April of this year, 
510 applications have been received, 440 have been approved, 16 denied, 
and 54 are pending. Under the current cap of 50 allowable applicants 
per year, it will take until approximately the year 2016 to admit those 
currently in the queue for entry into the U.S.

To correct this problem, I, in partnership again with my 
distinguished colleague Mr. Berman of California, recently introduced 
legislation that would increase the annual limit for these visas from 
50 to 500. The Senate bill before us today does exactly that for the 
next 2 years.

I believe it is right and just to offer refuge to those who have 
risked their own lives to help our troops and our Nation. These 
translators and interpreters are performing crucial work to assist the 
United States Government in both Iraq and Afghanistan. They have been 
invaluable to our efforts in the Middle East. It is my hope that our 
Nation will provide them the protection and asylum they need in honor 
of their service to our country and in honor to the commitment that 
they have made.