---
---

# HONORING SENATOR TED STEVENS
## `cb522522133207319036ecbc05af2e38`
`Mr. INOUYE — 12 April 2007`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I am a proud Democrat. Ted Stevens is a 
proud Republican. People have said, how can you two ever get together? 
Well, as the leader has indicated, we call each other brothers.

I know this is a violation of our party rules, but I have contributed 
to Ted's campaign, and he has contributed to my campaign. Last election 
was one of the most negative and partisan ones that I have ever 
experienced. The issue was Iraq, as it is today. Ted Stevens came up to 
me and said: You know, this election is sending a bad message to the 
fellows and the women in Iraq. We should send another message. So he 
proposed that we do our very best to pass the Defense appropriations 
bill in a timely fashion unanimously. The record will show that the 
subcommittee came out and voted unanimously for the Defense 
appropriations bill. The full committee responded by unanimously voting 
for it, and the Senate, for the first time in history, voted 100 to 0.

That is bipartisanship, Mr. President. We have demonstrated that it 
can be done, and it has been done many times. We have many things in 
common, but I think more things uncommon. He represents glaciers; I 
represent coconut trees. But we do have many things in common. We 
fought in World War II--he in China with the Flying Tigers, and I was 
in Europe fighting the Germans. We represented territories. So we came 
in as new Members of the Senate, and he and I have received the crown 
of being ''pork men of the year.'' We are No. 1 in add-ons in the 
United States Senate.

Mr. President, I am proud to call Ted Stevens my brother. I hope we 
can


continue this brothership for as long as we are here. We have just 
given him a new title: the Strom Thurmond of the Arctic Circle.

(Applause.)