# HOMES FOR HEROES ACT OF 2009
## `cb68eb797c10bf6be4535179f76f4e95`
`Ms. WATERS — 16 June 2009`

---


Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 403, 
the Homes for Heroes Act of 2009. I am proud to be a cosponsor and 
would like to recognize the leadership of Representative Al Green who 
introduced this very important bill last Congress, which passed the 
House Floor. This bill upholds the principle that those who served our 
Nation honorably should not have to live on the streets or in shelters.

According to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, approximately 
150,000 to 200,000 American veterans are living on the


streets or in shelters. And nearly 300,000 veterans may experience 
homelessness at some point during the course of a year.

The Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, which I chair, 
held a hearing on this bill during the 110th Congress and heard from 
witnesses how the return of veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan would 
greatly increase demand for affordable housing and social services in 
communities across the country.

Since then, the economy has only worsened and the number of veterans 
returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan continues to increase. 
Furthermore, many veterans are at greater risk of becoming homeless 
because they struggle with health and economic issues, while facing a 
shortage of affordable housing.

That is why H.R. 403 is so important. This bill would create a new 
program where none existed before to develop permanent supportive 
housing for the homeless veterans who need it. I urge my colleagues to 
support this bill.