---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `cb7721dd0ee27622e93f3c769492a7f2`
`Mr. BLUNT — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. BLUNT. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Lewis for yielding.

All I can say, Mr. Speaker, is that it is about time that we got this 
job done. Three and a half months to respond to our troops and to their 
families is too long.

Frankly, I think if we had been interested in getting this job done, 
most of us could have taken out a yellow legal pad and written 30 or 60 
or maybe even as much as 90 days ago what the House would finally vote 
on that would solve this impasse in supporting our troops.

While we have let this process drag on, the military has had to 
cancel noncritical contracts, defer home station unit training 
activities, defer any nonabsolutely critical orders for spare parts, 
defer maintenance, put off summer programs that have affected spouses 
and families while military personnel were assigned to Iraq, and that 
is unfortunate.

What is fortunate is that we have come up with a bill that funds the 
needs of the troops and sets benchmarks for the Iraqis. House 
Republicans have been saying since January this bill needs to include 
benchmarks for the Iraqis. I have been saying almost since that time 
those benchmarks need to have consequences. We have done that in this 
bill, and that is a good thing. We are requiring the Iraqis to step up 
and do their part of the job.

Equitable distribution of oil resources is something that needs to 
happen if this country is going to achieve stability. Establishing a 
High Electoral Commission and establishing a deadline for regional 
elections is something that we have been talking about since January 
that tonight we are going to say the Iraqis have to do or there are 
consequences. Militia disarmament is important here, as it is also 
important, as you deal with the military, not to undermine the military 
or change military leadership if they are doing the job that needs to 
be done in ending sectarian violence. Protecting minority political 
parties in Iraq is something that we are going to be monitoring. The 
Iraqis have to come up with the brigades that they need to be part of 
the operation that General Petraeus is leading. The President has to 
certify these items. All these are things that many in this House have 
been talking about for most of the 109 days this debate has been 
dragging on.

It is time to bring this debate to an end. It is time to support the 
troops. It is time to support their families and do the job that the 
Congress needs to do rather than trying to figure out the job that the 
commanders in the field need to do. They need to do what is necessary 
to be successful. This is a step in giving them the tools to do that 
and giving the Iraqi Government the incentive to be who they are 
supposed to be.