---
---

# REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE
## `cb7c13f9d04b701f22243e7ab4750307`
`Mr. NEUGEBAUER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. NEUGEBAUER. Well, I thank the gentleman. And you alluded to 
something that I want to point out, and several of our previous 
speakers have talked about this chart. And basically, people say, well, 
what's going on in Iraq? And I think what we hear is the news media 
portrays, well, there's a lot of fighting going on. But really what's 
been going on in Iraq at the same time is some nation building. And 
what you see on this chart is over 14,000 projects that have either 
been completed or are underway, and as the gentleman referred to, as 
some of these provinces for the first time have water. Some of them, 
for the first time in a long time, have electricity.

But let's get down to really talking about what's making a difference 
in the lives of the Iraqi people. And for the first time, young men and 
women are back in school again, and commerce is going on in these 
communities, and people are being able to live a life that's less 
fearful of this tyranny that Saddam Hussein would reign over his 
people. And so 14,000 projects, either completed or underway. And all 
of those green dots, and I know that it doesn't show up on the C-SPAN 
that well, but this map is dotted with projects.

The other thing that the gentleman brought up, and I think you're 
going to hear from some of the other speakers tonight, is that most of 
the time when we go to Iraq, we spend some time with the troops. I have 
meals, almost with every chance we always say to the military, we want 
to eat with the troops. We want to hear from the young men and women 
that are out there with boots on the ground what's going on.

And my most recent trip to Iraq, I was sitting with a young man, and 
it was one of the last, I think we were in Baghdad, and he looked over 
at me, and he looked me right in the eye and he said, Congressman, this 
is my third trip to Iraq. He said, nobody has more invested in this 
effort than me. Would I like to be home with my family? Absolutely. 
But, Congressman, go back and tell your colleagues, please let us 
finish this job. We are winning. We are making a difference. And it 
would be a true shame for us to leave this job undone and to let 
the Iraqi people down.


The other thing, and the gentleman alluded to, was the fact that now 
we've been hearing that tens of thousands of calls are coming in now to 
the security forces of people in the neighborhoods saying, there's some 
bad folks roaming in our neighborhood. They're trying to do bad things; 
they're trying to harm us. And so they're turning in the bad people. So 
the Iraqi people are buying into the fact that this is their country. 
They have a responsibility. They're standing up the troops.

One of the interesting things the gentleman talked about the fact 
that we're standing up an Iraqi Army. Every once in a while, and we 
know it's unfortunately, but our suicide bombers will bomb a 
recruitment area. And the next day, what shows up at that same


site but more recruits because they went their country back.

They've had a number of elections, and so the fact that now that the 
sheiks, and not just the sheiks but the people in the communities are 
getting engaged in this process, and what we're hearing is that now 
these leads are turning into being able to not only get the bad guys, 
but get their weapons. And hundreds of thousands of pounds of 
ammunition has been seized because of these tips that we're not getting 
from our soldiers, but from the people in Iraq.

I believe the gentleman from New Mexico wanted to make a comment 
about that.