---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 70, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE  BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `cb9cec635347f09602977c99fb424243`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 5 June 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the FY2009 
budget resolution. This budget includes nearly $179 billion to fund the 
war.

Congress should not in good conscience vote to continue the 
Administration's illegal occupation of Iraq. The greatest tragedy of 
this war is the staggering loss of life, starting with the 4,091 brave 
men and women in U.S. military uniform. Tens of thousands more have 
been injured. Both of these numbers will continue to rise.

The U.S. policies in Iraq have failed as is evidenced by the fact 
that close to half of the population is struggling in extreme poverty. 
Estimates are that 1,000,000 innocent Iraqis have died as a result of 
the U.S. invasion. A reported 70 percent of Iraqis--nearly three 
quarters of the population--are without clean water; 80 percent lack 
effective sanitation; and 90 percent of hospitals lack essential 
surgical and medical supplies needed for Iraqi health and wellbeing.

Iraq's ability to meet the basic needs of its people is in shambles 
and our beloved troops remain in harms way. This body should act on the 
mandate of the American public given last November and bring our troops 
home now. Instead we continue to forfeit the public's trust with this 
unrelenting commitment to keep the war going when we have the power to 
end it. All it requires is a refusal to consider any legislation that 
contains or implies continued funding for this war.

The grand total for all defense related spending, including war funds 
and nuclear activities, is $607.8 billion. This is 56% of all 
discretionary spending in the budget for FY09. In other words, this 
budget continues the same failed policies that dedicate the majority of 
tax payer funds to defense spending while hard working Americans 
continue to struggle to afford basic necessities such as food, health 
care, homes and good schools for their kids.

The money in this budget that will go to fund war could be used to 
provide 39,912,404 people with healthcare; it could be used to offer an 
additional 1,053,429 affordable housing units; it could be used to 
provide 20,937,104 college level scholarships to the young minds of 
America. The budget should be reflective of America's priorities, but 
this budget falls far short of reflecting the priorities of the 
majority of Americans, so I oppose it.