# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `cb9cdb56a60d726612906a055dc49f38`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, let me take this opportunity first to thank the chairman 
of the Subcommittee on Health, Mr. Michaud; as well as the chairman of 
the full committee, Mr. Filner; and Ranking Member Mr. Buyer for their 
leadership in bringing this legislation timely to the floor.

The heavy burden of some of our servicemembers that they bear in 
coping with the aftermath of combat is tragically evident in the death 
of Army Specialist Joshua Lee Omvig. Specialist Omvig was a member of 
the U.S. Army Reserve 339th Military Police Company from Davenport, 
Iowa. He took his life in 2005 after returning from a deployment to 
Iraq. H.R. 327 is aptly named to remember this brave young man.

VA must be vigilant with a proactive mental health strategy to help 
our veterans and returning servicemembers readjust to stateside duty 
after their exposure to combat. H.R. 327 would require VA to implement 
a comprehensive program to reduce the incidence of suicide among our 
veterans. Specific steps included in this bill are: a campaign to 
reduce stigma surrounding seeking help or training for VA staff in 
suicide prevention and education; the creation of peer counselors to 
understand risk factors and to assist families during the readjustment 
process; and a 24-hour counseling line so that veterans, especially 
those in rural areas, could seek help whenever they need it.

VA is already fulfilling many of the requirements of H.R. 327. The 
Secretary of VA developed and has started to implement a similar 
suicide prevention strategy that is based on public health and clinical 
models with activities both in VA facilities and within local 
communities. For example, VA is fulfilling requirements of H.R. 327 by 
providing training for both clinical and nonclinical staff on how to 
assess and respond to patients that they may come in contact with that 
are at risk for suicide. And by April 1, the Department plans to have 
in place a Suicide Prevention Coordinator within each VA medical 
center.

The VA's Serious Mental Illness Treatment Research and Evaluation 
Center will be designated to guide prevention strategies and maintain 
data on suicide rates and risk factors. VA is also currently working to 
create a suicide prevention hotline by the end of this calendar year.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 327. This 
legislation does put the full force of legal authority behind a 
comprehensive program to ensure that VA is taking all appropriate 
measures to prevent suicide among our Nation's veterans.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.