# None
## `cba407f2b5ec3d83ee5c691bd40adcd3`
`Mr. LOTT â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. LOTT. Madam President, I have not yielded the floor, so I wish to 
go ahead and complete my remarks on the broader issues that have been 
raised here.

We debated in March and April and May whether we should confirm 
General Petraeus, whether we should go forward with the funds that our 
troops needed to do the job, and whether the surge could go forward. 
The vote was 80 to 14 in May to go forward with trying to bring down 
the violence, get control and, of course, encourage the Iraqi 
government to do more. We confirmed General Petraeus unanimously. They 
are already saying the surge has failed when, as a matter of fact, the 
troops that were supposed to be involved in that effort have only been 
there for some 3 weeks. So I think it is premature and unfair to the 
men and women who are there on the ground doing the job. We need to 
have the debate, allow both sides to have their say, but it is going to 
require 60 votes, and then we can go on to the underlying bill.


This is the Defense authorization bill. Every year we pass the 
Defense authorization bill. Yet I think we have had maybe one amendment 
even considered that has to do with the underlying bill, which provides 
funds and authorization for our troops for the


equipment they need, the supplies, the ships, the planes, the pay 
raise, and quality of life. That is something we have to come to terms 
with. We have to have a debate on amendments that affect this bill. We 
could work out how to do that.

Somebody said amendments are being blocked. As a matter of fact, 
Senator Levin and Senator McCain are clearing amendments right now. The 
process is underway. So I would say I am very disappointed in the way 
this issue is being handled. I must say I am even surprised we have 
allowed it to deteriorate to this level, but I think we will get 
through it. The Congress is not going to precipitously mandate that our 
troops begin to be withdrawn. We are going to go forward and allow them 
the time to do the job. In September and October we will debate this 
issue again, as we should. But to come back again after having just 
voted in May to allow us to go forward and say here we are in July and 
the surge has failed, I think that is a terrible mistake.

I yield the floor.