# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3867, SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING  PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS ACT
## `cba8ccb64a0321ca6152479e4f028f0e`
`Mr. CARDOZA — 30 October 2007`

---


Mr. CARDOZA. Madam Speaker, the gentleman from Florida, my friend, 
has indicated that we are not adequately funding our Nation's veterans. 
I would like to remind the gentleman, my good friend, that the recent 
Republican-led Congress shortchanged veterans funding by failing to 
provide sufficient increases to keep up with VA's growing number of 
patients and the rising cost of health care while they were in charge.

In the summer of 2005, the VA confronted a $1.5 billion shortfall as 
they significantly underestimated the health care needs of the new 
veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. This year the VA expects 
to treat 5.8 million patients, 1.6 million more than in 2001.

The new Congress, under the Democratic majority, committed to taking 
the country in a new direction. For 2007, the Democratic-held Congress 
increased veterans funding by $5.2 billion, and the Congress is 
proposing an additional increase of $3.8 billion more than the 
President in fiscal year 2008. That is the largest increase in veterans 
funding in 77 years.

The Democratic Congress once again is bringing to the floor a bill 
that provides real solutions to the obstacles facing America's small 
business owners, innovators, and entrepreneurs. H.R. 3867 ensures that 
veterans, women, and minority-owned businesses and other 
underrepresented entrepreneurs receive the assistance they need to 
thrive in the Federal marketplace. It also paves the way for them to 
develop their companies, create jobs, and give a much-needed jolt to 
our economy.

Madam Speaker, securing a Federal contract is a major boon for 
entrepreneurs, especially those owned by minority and veteran small 
businesses. This bill is yet another step towards ensuring that these 
businesses are not, in fact, left behind, but rather given every 
opportunity to succeed.

I appreciate the debate with my friend from Florida, and I urge a 
''yes'' vote on the rule and on the previous question.

The material previously referred to by Mr. Lincoln Diaz-Balart of 
Florida is as follows:




Amendment to H. Res. 773 Offered by Mr. Lincoln Diaz-Balart




 At the end of the resolution, add the following:



 Sec. 3. The House disagrees to the Senate amendment to the 


 bill, H.R. 2642, making appropriations for military 


 construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and related 


 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, and 


 for other purposes, and agrees to the conference requested by 


 the Senate thereon. The Speaker shall appoint conferees 


 immediately, but may declare a recess under clause 12(a) of 


 rule I for the purpose of consulting the Minority Leader 


 prior to such appointment. The motion to instruct conferees 


 otherwise in order pending the appointment of conferees 


 instead shall be in order only at a time designated by the 


 Speaker in the legislative schedule within two additional 


 legislative days after adoption of this resolution.