# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 301,  PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `cbac032ba06ddd68babbede0b8c78a17`
`Mr. PAUL â€” 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. PAUL. I thank the gentleman from California for yielding, and I 
thank you both for bringing this rule to the floor. Even though it is a 
privileged resolution, a privileged resolution has to qualify under the 
law, and under the War Powers Resolution, this does qualify.

The question is, why are we doing it at this time? It seems like 
Pakistan is a minor problem compared to what's going on in Afghanistan 
as well as Iraq, but I think people have to realize that we go into war 
differently these days. We don't make declarations of war and the 
people get behind it. We slip into war. We fall into war. We get into 
these messes, and it seems to me like it's so much easier to get into 
these problems than getting out. We debate endlessly about getting out 
of Afghanistan. We've debated for years about how and when it's ever 
going to end in Iraq, and we bring this up now because this is an 
appropriate time. It is escalating. The war is spreading, and we're 
trying to stop this. We're trying to let the people know and let the 
Congress know that this war is getting bigger. It is not getting 
smaller. A lot of people thought with this administration war would get 
smaller and we would end some of this.

It has been said that we need to be in Pakistan for national security 
reasons. I disagree with that. I think the fact that we're in there 
makes me feel more threatened because Pakistan is not about to attack 
us. We talk about the few troops there and that they're insignificant 
and we shouldn't worry about it, it's not significant, but that's the 
way we started in Vietnam. People were training soldiers, and before 
you knew it, we lost 60,000 people.

But you know, in this day and age, with the type of wars that we 
fight, occupation with combat troops is not exactly how we get 
involved, and I believe the way I read the War Powers Resolution, it 
does involve attacks on countries with bombs. This is what we're doing. 
We're attacking this country. The people of Pakistan don't like it. The 
number of drone attacks in Pakistan now has doubled the number that it 
was under the Bush administration. So it is escalating. There have been 
14 al Qaeda leaders killed by these drone attacks, but there were also 
687 civilians killed. So, therefore, the efficiency of this isn't all 
that good, and now there's reports coming out that these drones don't 
always come back, and a lot of times they crash, and a lot of times we 
have to go out and find them. So there's a lot of activity going on.

There is another reason we bring this up at this time. It is 
financial. We can't afford to expand the war. We can't afford the wars 
we have already. We can't afford to take care of our people at home. 
This costs money, and since we see this as an escalation and more 
provocation and a greater danger to us, because people are going to get 
upset. The people don't like this. There has actually already been a 
court ruling in Pakistan.