---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `cbb4481fe85ac040bf7910800446f6ac`
`Mrs. BOXER — 30 September 2009`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I rise today to express my continued 
support for the C-17 cargo aircraft program and urge my colleagues to 
retain funding for 10 additional aircraft in the fiscal year 2010 
Defense appropriations bill.

The C-17 is critical to our national security and our ability to 
efficiently carry out important missions around the world. Not only is 
this aircraft an indispensable asset in supporting military and 
humanitarian missions in countries like Iraq, Afghanistan and Sudan; it 
has a proven record of versatility and high performance, and it 
sustains jobs that are essential across 43 States--including my home 
State of California.

First, I would like to talk about the types of missions where we use 
the C-17. According to the Air Force's budget justification for 2010, 
the C-17 ''is a major element of America's National Military Strategy 
and constitutes the most responsive means of meeting U.S. mobility 
requirements. . . . The C-17 will perform the airlift mission well into 
this century.''

The C-17 is essential to our missions in Iraq and Afghanistan 
particularly because of its versatility. It is used to transport 
equipment, supplies and our service members. For example, the C-17 can 
land on a dirt runway to deliver needed supplies in remote regions of 
Afghanistan.

We also use the C-17 to evacuate our wounded men and women from Iraq 
to Germany, and then back to the United States for treatment. And in 
some instances, it has even been used to transport our service members 
across a combat zone, reducing the risks that they face when they 
travel on land by convoy.

And the uses don't stop there. The C-17 is used to deliver 
humanitarian supplies. In January of this year, a C-17 delivered 18,000 
pounds of supplies to Nicaragua, one of the poorest nations in the 
Western Hemisphere.

The C-17 has also been used to bring relief to Americans, including 
during Hurricane Katrina. It can deliver a 100-bed, fully equipped 
hospital to nearly any area with an unimproved airstrip.

This is an amazing capability, and one we cannot afford to lose.

Second, the C-17 has a proven record of performance. Quite simply, it 
is the workhorse of our military. And we are using them at a much 
higher rate than the Air Force originally intended.

C-17s have flown over 1.3 million flight hours since 2002. Many are 
flown at 150-180 percent of their anticipated flight hours.

According to the Congressional Research Service, the C-17 was 
designed to fly 1,000 hours per year over 30 years, but the fleet has 
averaged 1,250 hours per aircraft over the last ten years. Some have 
even reached 2,400 flying hours in a single year.

And finally, the C-17 is the last strategic airlift production line 
in the Nation. Every day 30,000 employees from 43 states go to work in 
direct support of the C-17. In addition to those 30,000 direct jobs, 
over 100,000 workers depend on this production line. In my home State 
of California, 13,800 people work on the C-17. And 19,200 worker's have 
an affiliation with this aircraft.

Too many American jobs depend on this vital program. Before we take 
any action to shut down the line, we must be absolutely certain that we 
have all of the aircraft we need.

We cannot take the chance that we ''may'' have enough aircraft, 
particularly without reviewing two studies that are due by the end of 
the year.



The Department of Defense Mobility Capabilities and Requirements 
Study and the congressionally mandated study being done by the 
Institute for Defense Analyses will determine if our airlift 
requirements are being met.

We expect these studies to be complete by the end of this year. 
Without the results of these studies, we cannot determine that our 
Nation's airlift capability has been met. It would be incredibly 
shortsighted to shut down this production line without that 
information.

I urge my colleagues to join me in maintaining funds for the C-17, 
and to defeat the McCain amendment.