---
---

# CORPORAL BRADLEY T. ARMS POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `cbb75e2d5f9a16ce98e9876e9350f66a`
`Ms. FOXX — 29 April 2008`

---


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this bill to designate the 
post office located at 1155 Seminole Trail in Charlottesville, 
Virginia, as the ''Corporal Bradley T. Arms Post Office Building.''

On November 19, 2004, Corporal Bradley Arms was killed during small-
arms fire in Anbar province, Iraq. It is only appropriate that we honor 
this fallen hero for the great sacrifice he made for his country.

Before becoming a Marine, Bradley was a student at the University of 
Georgia and a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. When he left 
Georgia before his junior year to serve in the 4th Division of the 4th 
Combat Engineer Battalion, it was with courage and optimism in his 
heart. He believed in what he was fighting for, and he wrote to his 
brothers of the changes he saw every day. He described his desire to 
influence the future of Iraq telling his friends that, ''as long as we 
can keep younger generations open minded, then we will win this war.''

His family members, who reside in Charlottesville, Virginia, remember 
Bradley's kindness and desire to help those who could not help 
themselves, one of the factors initially inspiring him to join the 
military.

When speaking to his parents shortly before his death, he told them 
he was confident that God had a plan for him and that he was exactly 
where he was supposed to be. While he was only 20 years old, Bradley 
aspired to live the life of a leader and be a positive role model for 
those around him, and he did just that.

Those who knew Bradley recall his honor and enthusiasm, and in 
recognition of the unparalleled sacrifice he made for his country, it 
is fitting that we should dedicate this post office to his memory.

I would like to thank my respected colleague, Mr. Goode, for 
introducing this important legislation honoring the memory of a valiant 
and courageous young man.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.