---
---

# SERGEANT ROBERT BARRETT POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `cbc90fa2c7a273b6f614101a243f8b10`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 16 November 2010`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman. I 
should note that I am speaking on behalf of myself and my colleague 
with whom I share the honor of representing the city of Fall River, Mr. 
McGovern, who is at a doctor's appointment now. But he fully joins in 
these sentiments.

First, I want to thank the committee. As the gentlewoman noted, this 
bill was introduced at the request of the city government of Fall River 
in July of this year, so this is very prompt action by the committee, 
and I appreciate both sides moving so quickly.

As the gentlewoman reported, Sergeant Barrett was a 20-year-old 
patriotic American with a 2-year-old daughter and a loving family. I 
can tell you, Mr. Speaker, because I attended this funeral, as I have 
tried to attend the funeral of every one of our service people killed 
in one of our wars, that he was widely respected, admired and in many 
cases loved by the people of the city of Fall River. There was great 
sadness in the city when the news came of his death in the service of 
his country and when the funeral was held. His high school classmates 
were deeply grieved by the loss of someone they greatly admired.

I was glad to respond when the city very appropriately asked that we 
name this post office in his honor. It is a central facility. As the 
address says, it is the Government Center. It is virtually adjacent to 
the city hall in Fall River. It is at the center of the town, right at 
the end of one our great bridges, the Braga Bridge, which spans the 
Taunton River. Anybody who drives from anywhere outside of 
Massachusetts to Cape Cod will drive along that road and will get to 
see this post office, and I hope will be reminded of the extraordinary 
sacrifice that the young father, son and brother made on behalf of this 
country.

So I want to again express my appreciation to the committee and send 
again my condolences to Sergeant Barrett's family and friends.

It is a sobering moment, Mr. Speaker. I will say this. I have tried, 
as I know many Members do, to attend, if it is at all possible, the 
funeral of those killed in our service. It is sometimes necessary for a 
Nation to go to war, there is no question about it. There is in the 
world evil that must be confronted. In Afghanistan, it was an evil that 
led to the murder of thousands of innocent Americans and hundreds of 
innocent Africans a few years before at the hands of a murderous thug 
named Osama bin Laden. But being reminded of the inevitable 
consequences of going to war, the death of among our best young people 
and the pain it inflicts on those who survive them, that is a very 
important part of the education we need to get.

So I will continue. I hope there won't be many more instances, but I 
will continue whenever I can, if there is a death of someone in the 
district I represent, to attend, to be reminded that war is both 
necessary and terrible. We will do it when we have to, but we should 
always be aware of those consequences.

Again, to those who survive Sergeant Barrett, there is nothing we can 
do to replace the enormous loss you have suffered with the death of 
this wonderful young man, but I hope you will know that your country at 
least understands the depth of that loss and appreciates it.