---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `cbdc8ddab4d01e722bf95c8bfb186cd3`
`Mr. OBEY â€” 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 7 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, there is an old story about a second baseman for the old 
New York Giants, Eddie Stanky. Leo Durocher was the manager of the 
club. And during spring training, Durocher was hitting ground balls to 
the infield, and Stanky dropped two in a row. And so Durocher said, 
Kid, give me the glove. I will show you how it is done. So he went out 
to second base, and the very first ball hit to him Durocher dropped. 
And he turned to Stanky and said, Hey, kid, you got second base so 
screwed up, nobody can play. That is pretty much the situation that we 
face with respect to Iraq and Afghanistan.



And this bill spends $97 billion because we're in a mess. After 9/11, 
the Bush administration went after al Qaeda hiding in Afghanistan. That 
was a perfectly understandable response. They hit us and we tried to 
hit them back. But then the administration diverted their attention and 
their resources to a tragically wrong-headed war in Iraq, a country 
with no connection to 9/11.

Seven years later, 33,000 American casualties later, more than 4,000 
American deaths later, we now have a new President who has a commitment 
to try to end American combat in Iraq. He's also confronted with the 
mess in Afghanistan, which is made much worse because of the diversion 
of attention that should have been focused on that country over the 
past 7 years. And that job is made even more difficult because of the 
impact of events in Pakistan on Afghanistan.

Now, the President cannot wave a magic wand and end that war. He has 
inherited what I consider to be the worst foreign policy mess from his 
predecessor in the history of the country, a three-country regional 
mess. Now, he has decided that he will try to refashion our efforts in 
Afghanistan to give us a better chance to stabilize the situation. I 
hope I'm wrong, but I am forced to say that I significantly agree with 
the gentleman from California. I have a profound doubt that he can 
succeed, not because of any problem with his policy but because I am 
dubious that there are the tools available in that region for us to 
succeed using any policy. The tools we have to rely on for want of any 
others are the Government of Pakistan and the Government of 
Afghanistan. And I feel that they are both hugely unreliable reeds to 
lean upon, which is why I think that in that region we are 
unfortunately in an Eddie Stanky situation, because those governments 
are corrupt, they are weak, they are chaotic, they appear to lack the 
focus and cohesion and effectiveness to turn the countries around.

Nonetheless, it's clear to me that there is a consensus to try to do 
something to stabilize the situation. If we're going to go down that 
road, I want the President to get everything that he asked for and then 
some to maximize his chances for success. And that is what this bill 
does. I frankly have very little faith that it will work.

I came here in 1969, 3 months after Richard Nixon became President. I 
was vehemently opposed to the Vietnam War. But Nixon correctly pointed 
out that he had inherited that war from his Democratic predecessor, 
Lyndon Johnson. And so I thought, well, it's reasonable for him to ask 
for some measure of time to see whether he could move the policy 
forward. So I decided to give him a year before I started speaking out 
against the war, and that's what I did. I'm pretty much in the same 
situation today, and that's why this bill contains the following 
language.

It says: ''Because the stability and security of the region is tied 
more to the capacity and conduct of the Afghan and Pakistani 
Governments and to the resolve of both societies than it is to the 
policies of the United States, the President shall submit a report to 
Congress not later than the date of submission of the fiscal year 2011 
budget, assessing whether the Governments of Afghanistan and Pakistan 
are, or are not, demonstrating the necessary commitment, capability, 
conduct, and unity of purpose to warrant the continuation of the 
President's policy. The President, on the basis of information gathered 
and coordinated by the NSC, shall advise the Congress on how the


assessment requires, or does not require, changes to that policy. The 
measures used to evaluate the Afghan and Pakistani Governments' record 
of concrete performance shall include the following standards of 
performance:

''Number one, level of political consensus and unity of purpose 
across ethnic, tribal, religious, and party affiliations to confront 
the political and security challenges facing the region.

''Two, level of government corruption and action taken to eliminate 
it.

''Three, performance of the respective security forces in developing 
a counterinsurgency capability, conducting counterinsurgency 
operations, and establishing population security.

''Four, performance of the respective intelligence agencies in 
cooperating with the United States on counterinsurgency and 
counterterrorism operations and in purging themselves of policies, 
programs, and personnel that provide material support to extremist 
networks that target U.S. troops or undermine U.S. objectives in the 
region.

''Five, ability of the Afghan and Pakistani Governments to 
effectively control the territory within their respective borders.''

So there are no deadlines, no conditions, no timelines. But there are 
very clear measurements against which we should be able to judge the 
performance of the Afghanistan and Pakistani Governments. I believe 
that if this policy fails, it will not fail because of any lack of 
imagination or effort on the part of this administration.