---
---

# DON'T DO IT, MR. PRESIDENT
## `cbdd5e86e1c9d42d81a612530fda4bd2`
`Mr. PAUL — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, if the President were to ask me for advice on 
foreign affairs, this is what I would say: Don't do it, Mr. President. 
It is a bad idea. There is no need for it. There is great danger in 
doing it. America is against it, and Congress should be. The United 
Nations is against it. The Russians, the Chinese, the Indians, the 
Pakistanis are against it. The whole world is against it. Our allies 
are against it. Our enemies are against it. The Arabs are against it. 
The Europeans are against it. The Muslims are against it.

We don't need to do this. The threat is overblown. The plan is a 
hysterical reaction to a problem that does not yet exist. Hysteria is 
never a good basis for foreign policy. Don't we ever learn? Have we 
already forgotten Iraq?

The plan defies common sense. If it is carried out, the Middle East 
and possibly the world will explode. Oil will soar to over $100 a 
barrel, and gasoline will be over $5 a gallon.

Despite what some think, it won't serve the interests of Israel. 
Besides, it is illegal. It is unconstitutional. And, Mr. President, you 
have no moral authority to do it.

We don't need it. We don't want it. So, Mr. President, don't do it. 
Don't bomb Iran.

The moral of the story, Mr. Speaker, is this: If you don't have a 
nuclear weapon, we will threaten to attack you. If you do have a 
nuclear weapon, we will leave you alone. In fact, we will probably 
subsidize you. What makes us think Iran does not understand this?

Mr. Speaker, I would like now to yield to my friend from North 
Carolina (Mr. Jones).