# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `cbe145e0f877aeb9484b4ca7fc32aa69`
`Mr. BRADY of Texas — 18 October 2007`

---


Mr. BRADY of Texas. Madam Speaker, that gentle reminder is not 
enough. It is despicable to have a Member of this Congress accuse this 
President, any President, of willfully blowing the heads, quote, 
blowing the heads off our young men and women over in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Having a brother who is an Army medic and served in Iraq, 
having spent this weekend with a family who lost their son in Iraq, it 
is beneath contempt, beneath contempt, to have a Member of Congress 
stand here and accuse the President of, in effect, assassinating our 
troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is dead wrong. And it is beneath 
contempt as well that we will sit here silently and allow such a remark 
to be tolerated, accepted if not embraced. And I will guarantee you, no 
Member on this side will stand up here and disavow those remarks, 
unfortunately, today.

It is bad enough that we are playing politics with the war. Now we 
are playing politics with our kids. The claim that the Republicans 
don't support this program is equally untrue. We created it. This is a 
great program. It keeps kids healthy. It helps their families avoid 
serious illness, keeps them out of our emergency rooms. It is a great 
program.

When we created it, we did it the right way. We sat down with the 
President, President Clinton, and we worked out a good plan for kids. 
And then, more importantly, we believed in it enough to pay for it. We 
paid for the whole 10 years. This plan does not. It is only half paid 
for. It is only half paid for. It is just like these predatory loans; 
the first years are affordable, and then it balloons beyond what we can 
pay for it. If we believe in it, let's pay for it now. It allows abuses 
to continue. It doesn't cover the poor kids first.

My question is, why don't we sit down, why don't we quit playing 
political games with our kids, sit down with Republicans and Democrats 
with the White House and find a solution that is right for our 
children.