# REMEMBERING MAURICE ``MO'' BAILEY
## `cbe9d1ff26282362d51d01d16fcbe058`
`Ms. MURKOWSKI — 15 July 2010`

---


Ms. MURKOWSKI. I place these articles in the Record not only because 
Mo's legacy needs to be preserved in history, not only to do justice to 
the tremendous contribution of Mo Bailey, I am really hoping these 
articles will catch the attention of some of the senior officials 
within the VA. Reading about the gaps in service Mo Bailey sought to 
fill might challenge the VA to think a little bit harder about how it 
can improve its service to other rural veterans. At the very least, it 
might cause the VA to acknowledge the debt it owes to people like Mo 
Bailey and so many others in our veterans service organizations who are 
giving of their own time, their own energy, their own money, to fill 
these gaps. So maybe, just maybe, Mo's story, which has been an 
inspiration to so many of us in Alaska, will also inspire the VA to do 
more and to do better.

On behalf of all of my Senate colleagues, I express my deepest 
condolences to Mo's wife Ann and all of those who have been touched by 
Mo Bailey's generosity and kindness.
















 Exhibit 1




Reaching the Unreached in Alaska Veterans Aviation Outreach















(By Jim Belshaw)




 In the course of his 20-year Army career, Maurice Bailey, 


 president of VVA Chapter 903 in Mat-Su, Alaska, pulled two 


 tours in Vietnam and one in Alaska. He thought Alaska was a 


 ''cool place'' and went back there to live. It was different 


 from anything he'd known, and he liked things that were 


 different. Since 1980, the mechanic-turned-pilot has flown 


 small fixed wing aircraft around the state. With a handful of 


 other veteran-pilots, he's hoping to turn those long years of 


 experience in the air into something that will help Alaska's 


 aging veteran population.



 As Bailey himself got a little older, he said he decided to 


 put in for ''some VA disability stuff Agent Orange-related 


 and PTSD. Just a whole gamut of stuff.'' He said the VA 


 experience ''wasn't a cakewalk,'' but when it was done the VA 


 found him to be 90 percent disabled. That got him to thinking 


 about other veterans. 74,000 of whom live in Alaska, some in 


 remote villages far from any kind of service, Alaska being a 


 good place to be alone if that's your desire. There are 234 


 villages in Alaska. They range in population from 50 to 500. 


 A big town might have as many as 2000.



 ''A lot of people are hiding,'' Bailey said. ''They just 


 wanted to run away. They just don't want to be bothered.''



 He'd spent many year flying to such places. While he 


 noticed the large number of veterans, he didn't give it much 


 thought until he went through his own VA experience. He 


 wondered how many of Alaska's




 veterans might be so far removed that they didn't know they 


 had benefits coming, let alone how to get them.



 He became a veterans service officer. It seemed the natural 


 for him. He met men he hadn't expected to meet.



 ''I met World War II guys,'' he said. ''One guy in 


 particular, a tough old guy 84 years old. He was gut shot 


 twice, medically discharged, and given a 30 percent 


 disability. He quietly disappeared into the wilds of Alaska. 


 When I met him, he was still flying airplanes. The oldest guy 


 I saw was 90 years old.



 He says he doesn't mean to criticize the VA when he says it 


 needs to do outreach. He thinks that if the VA did a credible 


 job of outreach, it would be overwhelmed by the needs of 


 veterans. He thought perhaps a smaller number of people 


 working on a modest scale might be a good place to begin.



 Maurice Bailey got together with other veteran pilots--Tom 


 Baird and Joe Stanistreet (no longer with VAO) and Chuck 


 Moore--to talk about the possibility of doing outreach 


 themselves. Bailey had been doing it on his own for a year 


 and asked his friends if they'd like to join him. A fourth 


 later joined the group--Jim Kendall, a photographer and 


 navigator.



 From these conversations grew Veterans Aviation Outreach, 


 Inc., three veteran pilots flying their own airplanes to 


 reach people who live ''off the road'' in a place not known 


 to have many roads. Many of those veterans live in what is 


 described as ''survival mode'', barely existing, often 


 finding comfort in alcohol, only to have the alcohol lead to 


 unemployment.



 From the beginning, Bailey said, trust was the critical 


 factor in the success they've had. Because of his long 


 experience flying around Alaska, he came to know many of the 


 distant veterans. It made a difference when he broached the 


 subject of benefits. By way of illustration, he tells of 


 another veteran who went to a small village where no one came 


 out to greet him. But when Aviation Outreach went to the same 


 place, they signed up 29 people in two days for health care 


 and benefits.



 ''These guys have seen me around these villages and they 


 trust me,'' Bailey said. ''I know most of them. I know their 


 kids.''



 Bailey said Moore, with whom he served in Vietnam 38 years 


 ago, is a key player in the effort and the pilot with the 


 most experience.



 ''He was a young pilot (19) and I was an old man (25),'' 


 Bailey said. ''He flew gunships. He left the Army and went 


 into the Navy to fly jets. He flies 90 percent of the 


 missions for VAO. At this time he also flies for the State of 


 Alaska. We have three pilots and four airplanes. Chuck owns 


 two airplanes and the other two are owned by Tom Baird and 


 myself.''



 Tom Baird underscores the importance of trust with the 


 veteran's community.



 When I travel in the bush, most contacts are developed by 


 these kinds of relationships,'' he said. ''Once you establish 


 a relationship with an individual as a friend, you end up 


 being steadfast friends. Individual homes are open to one 


 another. Most of the people in this state will stop and give 


 a hand if you need it. We want to reach the unreached who are 


 out of sight and out of mind. These individuals are extremely 


 independent. They like to do things for themselves whether 


 they can or not.''



 Bailey says the four members of Veterans Aviation Outreach 


 have no grand illusions. They try to do ''small stuff.'' They 


 sign people for VA benefits; they recruit new VVA members. 


 Believing there is strength in numbers, they do what they can 


 to build the veterans community.



 They built a wheelchair ramp for a veteran to get in and 


 out of his house. He's 50, Bailey said, and he'd ''given up 


 on life.'' So they do small things that will enhance that 


 life.



 They put in a claim for a veteran suffering from diabetes. 


 It took eight months to settle, but the veteran received 


 $4,000 in back pay and now gets $200 a month for the rest of 


 his life.



 ''He's real happy because now he can buy fuel oil,'' Bailey 


 said.



 Bailey is direct when dealing with veterans, ''I try to 


 explain to them, ''Look guys, you're old and you're sick 


 now,'' he said.



 Tom Baird said decisions between quantity and quality is 


 always difficult.



 ''We've run into difficulty making decisions about reaching 


 as many people as we can or making sure those we have 


 contacted are taken care of before we move on,'' he said. 


 ''Because of the difficulties of processing and getting 


 things done, it's looking like we're going to go for quality 


 first. These guys already had been promised the world and 


 gotten nothing, so it makes no sense to go out there if we're 


 not going to be able to do it right.''



 Maurice Bailey counts his blessings and speaks of a duty to 


 share them.



 ''Life has been pretty good to me,'' he said. ''I live 


 pretty good. But we're here for more than to just live pretty 


 good. We're here to help people when they need it.''







 [From the Anchorage Daily News, Nov. 18, 2008]

Pilots Bring Hope, Help to Veterans in Alaska--VAO: Outreach by 7 Vets 





Includes Food, Claims Help and Flights to the Doctor














 (By Zaz Hollander)




 Wasilla--A national veteran's group report released last 


 month highlighted health-care struggles facing Alaska Army 


 National Guard members returning from deployments to rural 


 villages. But news of under-served Bush veterans came as no 


 surprise to Maurice ''Mo'' Bailey, a Wasilla flight 


 instructor who served as a helicopter flight engineer with 


 the U.S. Army during the Vietnam War.



 Several years ago, Bailey and six other veterans--also 


 pilots--took to the skies in their own planes to help 


 veterans living in Western Alaska. All had flown the area for 


 fun, and saw veterans in need of help. In 2003, Bailey 


 created a nonprofit, Veteran's Aviation Outreach, which 


 serves ''isolated veterans'' in rural or remote parts of 


 western Alaska and elsewhere.



 The men mostly help people file for Veterans Administration 


 benefits. But they've also flown out veterans in need of 


 medical care, made sure deceased veterans got flags for their 


 graves, and shared literally tons of moose meat scored from 


 helpful guides.



 In 2005, they filed benefit claims on behalf of six Naknek 


 veterans. The next year, they flew a rural resident to 


 Anchorage for emergency medical care, a visit that also 


 resulted in diagnoses--and later treatment--of diabetes and 


 post-traumatic stress disorder.



 Now 69, Bailey last year received the Governor's Veterans 


 Advocacy Award for his ''outstanding volunteer service.''



 He talked about the flying outreach group during a recent 


 conversation.



 Q. Why did you start?



 A. Seeing the conditions that many veterans are in. Me and 


 the rest of the pilots used to fly to western Alaska. We saw 


 that people would have medical problems and some people in 


 some cases died, leaving huge debts. Had they known they had 


 benefits, the VA would have taken care of that. It's mostly 


 information: these people are clueless. Once you're released 


 from the military, you are not tracked, updated.



 Q. Why western Alaska?



 A. We were retired, just kind of goofing around (and flying 


 the area). They're all combat pilots--the rest of the guys 


 are. I'm not. We were all in Vietnam together. All of us are 


 retired from the military, looking at our brothers and 


 sisters and saying, ''Well, what can we do?'' We didn't set 


 out to do this, trust me. We were enjoying our retirement, 


 our grandchildren.



 Q. Can you give me some specifics of the kind of outreach 


 you do?



 A. We've been to all villages up and down the Kvichak River 


 and Lake Iliamna. We found out veterans had been buried 


 without flags. We decided that was totally unacceptable.



 Q. Where was that?



 A. It was in Newhalen on Lake Iliamna. We came back and 


 went around to organizations such as the VFW. We got flags at 


 the Wasilla Vet Center. We took flags out to make sure that 


 people who had died recently, they received flags they hadn't 


 gotten before and we left flags there so they could have them 


 to take to six surrounding villages. That was last year.



 Q. What about more recently?



 A. We help veterans, no matter where. Last month, a guy was 


 on dialysis. He had to come into Wasilla three times a week. 


 He lived in Sutton. His house was not sanitized, broken 


 pipes. We took a couple ladies out, cleaned the house, took a 


 plumber out to fix pipes for water, built a handicapped ramp. 


 Now he's able to do his dialysis at home.



 Q. Where does the money come from?



 A. Most of it comes out of our pockets. Sometimes people 


 give fundraisers, spaghetti dinners, garage sales, cookie 


 bakes or whatever. We do lots of stuff. I tell you what, I'm 


 not just bragging, I'm really proud. We've had a heckuva 


 impact doing things for people, little things that 


 (otherwise) people, they got to paperwork it to death.



 We just gave away 2,100 pounds of moose meat. We do it 


 every year, have a deal with guides in Healy. They bring 


 Lower 48'ers on hunts. They want horns. We want meat. We 


 caravan a couple of trucks, pick up the meat and have it 


 processed. The neediest people get it first. Valley veterans. 


 Actually, we sent meat to the Bush--400 pounds last year to 


 Naknek. Last week we also bought two freezers for needy 


 veterans and filled both up with meat.



 Q. How many veterans do you serve?



 A. I just started tracking that. We see and help maybe two 


 veterans a week. On a large scale, like the meat giveaway, 


 it's to 50 to 60 people. Out in the Bush, we file claims for 


 people with disabilities, illnesses. We do a little bit of 


 everything.



 Q. Where's the next trip?



 A. Dillingham. Hopefully (early November). We'd like to 


 have a gathering there. We had 600 people last spring at a 


 Wasilla Airport gathering, with a barbecue and a band . . . 


 We had World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan 


 vets.



 What made it so amazing was that these young guys that just 


 returned from Iraq and Afghanistan were able to communicate 


 and talk to guys that was in World War II. A lot of those 


 guys won't be around here next year.
