---
---

# MANNER OF CONDUCTING PROCEEDINGS IN THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `cbf20871d0e59231447b4b8302a436ce`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 9 March 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Shadegg), 
and I pick up a point that Mr. Shadegg made, and that is about what the 
enemy thinks and what happens if we should pull out of the central 
battlefield in this war on terror called Iraq.

So I am going to just make this transitional point here, Madam 
Speaker, and that is, I have a date written down here. July 11, 2004, I 
was sitting in a hotel in Kuwait City waiting to go into Iraq the next 
day, and I turned on al Jazeera TV, and I saw the face of this rather 
notorious person right here, Moqtada al Sadr, and he was speaking in 
Arabic with the English crawler going on underneath, and as I read what 
he said, and I heard it sparingly in Arabic, he said, If we keep 
attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way they left 
Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left 
Mogadishu. Moqtada al Sadr who has now absconded to Iran to be with his 
cronies who have been funding him, supporting him, sending him 
munitions and training him.

But the philosophy that he has voiced here is a philosophy that 
echoes back in the ghosts of Vietnam and through Lebanon and Mogadishu, 
and that is, do our enemies take great heart in believing that we do 
not have the will to complete a military task if it gets difficult or 
if it gets long?

So the voice of Moqtada al Sadr saying Americans will leave Iraq the 
same way they left Vietnam, Lebanon and Mogadishu will be replaced 
should we not succeed in Iraq, and I will point out that Prime Minister 
Maliki stood right back here at this microphone some months ago, and he 
said, if this war against terrorism cannot be won in Iraq, it cannot be 
won anywhere.

Our enemy will know that. We must succeed there on that battleground. 
The al Qaeda is in Iraq. They have come there to fight us. They have 
generated a few more out of the Sunnis there in particular; but if we 
pulled out of Iraq the way the other side would like to see that 
happen, then the battlefield does transfer to Afghanistan, and that 
battlefield in Afghanistan will be inspired by a failure to achieve 
victory in Iraq.

I would point out that the next poster you will see on this floor 
after such a time, if this Congress acts in a disgraceful fashion, then 
the next poster you will see will not be the face of Moqtada al Sadr, 
Mr. Speaker, but it will be the face of Osama bin Laden himself and the 
quote will not be quite like this. It will be close, though. It will 
read like this: If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave 
Afghanistan the same way they left Vietnam, the same way they left 
Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu and the same way they left 
Iraq.

That is what is coming if this side of the aisle does not suck it up 
and understand that far more American lives are at risk if we do not 
have the will and the resolve to succeed. Playing politics with the 
lives of American soldiers and playing politics with the destiny of 
America just simply cannot be tolerated.

This supplemental appropriations bill, as it is announced to be 
written, and we do not have a draft to work with yet, is, I believe, an 
unconstitutional micromanaging of the powers of the Commander in Chief 
of the United States.

I wish to support and reiterate the statements made by the gentleman 
from Arizona when he said with the tick of a clock, the fight is over. 
Can you imagine, Madam Speaker, that a war would be like a prize fight 
and you would go for 10 rounds, or if it is a championship battle, 
maybe 15 rounds, could be 12, and when the round is over, the bell 
rings and the fight stops, and we come home on a date certain, at a 
time certain, without succeeding in a victory? That is an amazing and 
astonishing thing, and anyone who is involved in a guerrilla warfare of 
an insurgency against the United States will know all they have got to 
do is go underground, hole up and wait; when American soldiers are 
finally gone, whether lifted off of the U.S. embassy or whether they 
happen to be deployed out of their troop ships or flown out in jet 
airliners, they would know that then the enemy would have that 
battlefield to themselves.

The point made also by Mr. Shadegg, we came in uninvited, we cannot 
leave uninvited. That is a profound statement that should be in the 
conscience of all of us, and we have made progress. We have made 
significant progress.

The attitude of the Iraqi people I thought was good 3 years ago or 
even 4 years ago, and I do understand that their attitude is betting 
better and better, but they are also nervous that we are not going to 
stick it out.

But if we should leave, there is no doubt things will get worse; and 
the worse that I would describe, Madam Speaker, is I do not think this 
is necessarily the worst-case scenario, but I will describe this as a 
likely-case scenario, and that is, right now Iran is fighting a proxy 
war against the United States. They are doing so in Iraq. They have 
been funding and supporting two large Shia militia. One of them would 
be Sadr's militia and the other one is the Badr Brigade. They have been 
supporting anyone who will increase the chaos and the disorder in Iraq. 
They have not only been funding them and supporting them and they have 
been putting munitions into Iraq that are used against American service 
personnel and against Iraqi military security personnel. That has gone 
on for at least 2 years that I know of and it has gone on intensively 
and finally came out in the press a little over a month ago.



Iran is fighting a proxy war against the United States, and those who 
attack the United States and provide munitions and funding and training 
have a sovereign sanctuary to retreat to and hide in, and that is Iran.

I know of no example in history where you have had an insurgency that 
was funded by a sovereign sanctuary nation that has been protected from 
the assault of the troops that have been attacked out of that nation, 
and that prevailing side has always been the side that had the 
sanctuary, not the side that gave sanctuary.

I am opposed to giving sanctuary in Iran to them so they can fight 
their proxy war against the United States. If we have enemies, they 
cannot be hiding behind national boundaries. We must regard them as 
enemies wherever they are. But if we do not prevail in Iraq, and the 
pervasive influence that has taken place there by the Shi'a from Iran 
is imposed in the southern part of Iraq and also in Baghdad as well, 
which it surely could be controlled by the Shi'as, that would allow 
Iran in the aftermath with their hegemony to control 70 to 80 percent 
of the Iraqi oil.

If Ahmadinejad has control of 70 to 80 percent of the Iraqi oil, and 
about two-thirds of the real estate in Iraq and ultimately maybe more 
than that, his coffers get flushed full of cash. As the cash flows out 
of his treasure chest, he starts putting more and more money into his 
war chest, and that war chest becomes more and more nuclear capable, 
accelerating their development of nuclear weapons, weapons, in the 
plural, multiple plural, and means to deliver them, which means more 
and more missiles to put nuclear warheads on them, not just to threaten 
Israel, which Ahmadinejad has sworn to annihilate.

He has also sworn to defeat and annihilate the United States. Those 
missiles would not be constrained to just having the range to drop into 
Tel Aviv, but they would have soon the range to get into Western Europe 
and, not much later than that, the range to reach the United States.

This is a nation that has a suicidal tendency and a belief that they 
are called upon by Allah to annihilate the infidels. Infidels happen to 
be anyone who doesn't agree with them on their religion.

So think, Madam Speaker, in terms of a Middle East that is controlled 
by Ahmadinejad and the mullahs in Iran. They set on the Strait of 
Hormuz. If they have that valve, they will have


the valve at the Strait of Hormuz to control what goes in and what goes 
out, which amounts to 42.6 percent of the world's exportable oil 
supply. That is easily enough to make them filthy rich and easily 
enough to affect the world's economy if they crank that valve down and 
shut down just a valve, it is a figurative valve, shutting down the oil 
exports going out of the Strait of Hormuz. They would control all of 
the Middle East if this happens. Then this Nation would go into a 
recession, probably a depression.

If that happens, that reflects back to China, because China also is 
out there on the world market doing all that they can for the oil that 
they need, and they are dependent on the U.S. economy. The United 
States and China would be the big losers. Russia and Iran would be the 
big winners. Iran for obvious reasons; Russia because they have a lot 
of oil.

That explains why Putin has taken a hostile position against the 
United States. He wants things to go that direction in Iraq. He wants 
us out of there. He wants the Iranians to take over in Iraq because 
that helps his world dominance and that helps his power base. That is 
an equation that I don't believe is considered by the retreatniks that 
are writing these line items of micromanagement into this supplemental 
appropriations bill, this, I believe, it will come out to be an 
unconstitutional supplemental appropriations bill.

I would be happy to recognize the gentleman from Arizona.