# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `cbf531da5acbeb9696fe17473b5113c2`
`Mr. VITTER — 19 November 2010`

---


Mr. VITTER. Mr. President, today I recognize Second Lieutenant Robert 
M. Kelly of Tallahassee, FL, who was killed November 9, 2010, from an 
improvised explosive device while on a foot patrol in Helmand Province, 
Afghanistan. Lieutenant Kelly is survived by his wife Heather, his 
sister Kathleen, and his brother John Kelly, who is also a marine. LT 
Robert Kelly was the son of Lieutenant General Kelly and Mrs. John 
Kelly. Lieutenant General Kelly is the commander of the Marine Forces 
Reserve in New Orleans.

Lieutenant Kelly was engaged in his third combat deployment and was 
assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 5th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division 
out of Camp Pendleton, CA. Following in his father's footsteps, 
Lieutenant Robert Kelly rose through the ranks during his service. He 
was commissioned as an officer in the Marine Corps on December 12, 
2008, where he continued to honorably serve with distinction.

A decorated marine, LT Robert Kelly's bravery is a testament to true 
American heroism. Having received multiple awards that include the 
Purple Heart, Combat Action Ribbon, Navy and Marine Corps Achievement 
Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, and Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Lt. Kelly 
deserves to be recognized. He also received the Marine Corps Good 
Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism 
Medal, Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Humanitarian 
Service Medal, and the Sea Service Deployment Ribbon.

There is no doubt that this tragic loss will not only be felt within 
the Kelly family but also the Marine Corps and this Nation. Our 
thoughts and prayers will continue to be with his family and friends. 
Today I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring and remembering 2LT 
Robert M. Kelly, who made the ultimate sacrifice for our Nation.
