---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `cc03b3505b80561909e9d511c3335c13`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, today the House is addressing two of the 
most important issues facing our Nation: The Iraq war and the poor 
state of our economy. We have the opportunity to force a change in our 
Iraq strategy while providing much-needed assistance to returning 
troops and Americans struggling to make ends meet.

In October 2002, I voted against the resolution authorizing the use 
of force in Iraq, and more than 5 years later, it is abundantly clear 
that our Nation needs a new approach in Iraq so that we can bring our 
men and women in uniform home. I am extremely proud of the service and 
sacrifice of our troops and their families, and the best way to 
demonstrate our support is by welcoming them home with the services and 
resources they need. I strongly support the amendment before us today 
that requires U.S. forces to begin redeployment from Iraq within 30 
days, with a goal of withdrawing nearly all troops by the end of 2009. 
Recognizing the toll that extended deployments are having on our 
readiness, the amendment also requires the Department of Defense to 
adhere to its policy of providing sufficient rest and recuperation time 
for troops returning from combat. Repeated and unpredictable 
deployments have placed enormous stress on our military and their 
families, and if we don't make changes soon, we risk losing the men and 
women who have made our armed forces the best in the world.

Another amendment before us would recognize the service of our troops 
by establishing a new GI Bill of Rights. Under this plan, which is 
supported by a broad array of veterans groups, servicemembers returning 
from Iraq or Afghanistan would qualify for educational assistance based 
on the amount of time served. Those serving three years on active duty 
would receive benefits to cover the costs of a 4-year education, based 
on the costs of the most expensive in-state public school. This new 
program will allow our military returning from combat to advance their 
careers and develop skills that will help improve our economy.

Finally, the measure recognizes the importance of providing 
assistance to our citizens struggling in the recent economic downturn. 
Congress has been working swiftly to address the housing crisis and the 
skyrocketing costs of food and energy, but we need to make sure that we 
help those who need it now. This legislation provides an additional 13 
weeks of unemployment benefits to those who have exhausted their 
regular 26 weeks of benefits--a provision that could help as many as 
24,400 Rhode Islanders. Unemployed Americans want to get back to work, 
but in many places jobs are scarce. We must not punish them for the 
failings of our economy, and this emergency spending measure 
demonstrates Congress's commitment to those in greatest need.

We have a chance today to reject the status quo policies of the Bush 
administration by setting new priorities for our Nation. I urge my 
colleagues to support efforts to prevent further blank check funding 
for Iraq, endorse a responsible new strategy for bringing our troops 
home and provide support to Americans struggling to make ends meet.