---
---

# None
## `cc0b9d79bdf6e8f1967fa62083fba84b`
`Mr. REID — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, the matter that we have to lay down as a 
substitute is done. The staff is reading it over. They found a couple 
mistakes. It happens on a bill this big, an amendment this big. So 
rather than have more time spent tonight treading water, we are going 
to lay this amendment down in the morning. We are going to come in at 
9:30. Senators Dodd and Shelby have a very important banking hearing. 
It has been scheduled for quite some time. But Senator Durbin has 
agreed to manage the bill for Senator Dodd, and the Republicans will 
have someone here also. It is my understanding, after initial 
statements are made on the bill, we are going to go back and forth on 
amendments. Senator Durbin will lay down an amendment. That will be our 
first one--not a lot of time on that. Our second amendment would be 
with Senators Schumer and Murray. The third amendment will be Senator 
Feinstein. It is a bipartisan amendment. I believe it is Senator 
Martinez.

As I indicated to staff, of course, following the first Democratic 
amendment, there will be a Republican amendment, if there is one. 
Following the second Democratic amendment, there will be a Republican 
amendment. We will try to move through this as expeditiously and as 
well intentioned as we can. The progress that has been made in the last 
24 hours is very significant. We have a piece of legislation that now 
has very important FHA modernization in it. It is not what everyone 
wants, but it is a good piece of legislation.

Senators Dodd and Shelby have agreed the limit would be $550,000. 
There would be a 3.5 percent downpayment. There are other things in it 
that banking minds can describe better than I.

There is the CDBG funds to assist communities devastated by 
foreclosures. That would be $4 billion. We would provide preforeclosure 
counseling for families in need. In the underlying bill, the so-called 
Reid amendment, we had $200 million. That has been reduced to $100 
million. There will be efforts made to increase that. As I understand, 
that is what Senators Schumer and Murray intend to do. We have a 
combination of pieces of legislation that have been put together in one 
amendment. It is bipartisan. It started with the Jack Reed disclosure 
transparency legislation, and others had ideas on how to improve that. 
That is what Senators Dodd and Shelby have done.

It lengthens the time a lender must wait before starting foreclosure 
on a servicemember by some 3 months, which is important during this 
time of Iraq and Afghanistan. It raises the loan guarantee amount for 
VA-backed loans in high-cost areas. There is a standard property tax 
deduction; of course, what the President called for in his State of the 
Union Address, the mortgage revenue bonds to purchase used or 
foreclosed-upon homes; the extension of net operating loss carryback, 
extremely important to homebuilders. There is a tax credit for the 
purchase of homes in foreclosure. This is the Isakson amendment that 
has been talked about for several weeks now. The two managers of the 
legislation have modified the original Isakson proposal to have $3,500 
for 2 years in succession, a total of $7,000. It will be for buyers of 
foreclosed homes.

This is the package. It would be great if the Presiding Officer and I 
and Senator Salazar could just say: OK, this is done. This is great, 
because it is bipartisan. Let's go home tonight, having done this. We 
can't do that. That is


the way the legislation is. But I think it is a tremendously important 
bipartisan package that we have. I commend and applaud the work to this 
point of Senator Dodd and Senator Shelby. They have done very good 
work. Their staffs worked most all night. And, of course, they have 
worked all day. Senators Shelby and Dodd were on the telephone last 
night at midnight trying to work things out. So I appreciate their 
good, hard work. They have been long-time legislators. As I mentioned, 
when Senator McConnell and I suggested they come up with a bipartisan 
package, they are experienced legislators. They both had extensive 
service in the House of Representatives before coming here. I feel we 
are in a good spot to be able to deliver a package that will go toward 
helping Main Street. We helped Wall Street.

We are all glad Bear Stearns was taken care of. But now it is our 
opportunity to take care of people on Main Street. They deserve that. I 
am convinced it would be the right thing to do.

As I indicated, we are going to come in at 9:30 tomorrow. I hope this 
gives everyone an outline of the legislation. I apologize, as I have to 
do often, that we were not doing more proactive stuff on the floor, but 
every minute that we were on the floor in the quorum calls or people 
giving speeches on what they thought should be done with housing or 
other issues, the staffs and Senators Dodd and Shelby were working very 
hard to get us to the point where we are tonight.
