---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `cc11a35e54593b8e2ad16aab7095ca9b`
`Mr. BYRD — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, at Andrews Air Force Base in 1990, I helped 
to craft the first statutory firewalls as part of the budget summit 
that resulted in 
the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990. That act created three categories 
of discretionary spending--defense, international, and domestic 
discretionary.

At the time, the device of the three separate caps to protect each 
category from being raided by another category made sense. There was a 
definable military threat, and nondefense funds did not contribute 
significantly to the defense of the Nation. That is not the case 
anymore. The September 11 attacks blurred the line between defense and 
nondefense spending. Military threats can no longer be viewed as 
matters that are fought solely through the Defense Department. The 
enemy may attack our troops overseas or civilians here at home. Within 
a matter of weeks, the focus of our war against terrorism can shift 
from military efforts abroad, to our homeland security efforts here at 
home, and then back again.



To respond to this threat, the Congress should maintain maximum 
flexibility to shift funds to where they are needed most--whether for 
our homeland security needs here at home or for our troops overseas or 
for our veterans who need health and medical care. With so much 
uncertainty regarding the threat of terrorism and the war in Iraq, it 
makes no sense to limit how those funds can be spent.

Senators should know that firewalls in the past have forced the 
Congress to resort to all sorts of machinations to pass its annual 
spending bills. Firewalls were used in past years, as part of a 
partisan budget process, to hold nondefense discretionary spending at 
unrealistically low levels. These spending levels were set early in the 
year under different fiscal circumstances and at levels that neither 
the administration nor the Congress expected to stay within. The result 
was always unnecessary delays in the appropriations process and even 
more spending as nearly all budgetary discipline evaporates in the push 
to pass an end-of-the-year omnibus bill.

These kinds of budget gimmicks undermine the people's confidence in 
the Congress to manage the Nation's spending priorities.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.