---
---

# IMPROVING GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
## `cc1ee6cf195492b7b36af903bb0b4c1b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 3 October 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong 
support of H.R. 298, the Improving Government Accountability Act. I 
would like to thank my colleague, Congressman Cooper, for introducing 
this important legislation, as well as the Chairman of the House 
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Congressman Waxman, for his 
leadership in bringing this important issue to the floor.

Mr. Chairman, Inspectors General play a vital role for the U.S. 
taxpayer. Their work is crucial in preventing and detecting waste, 
fraud, and abuse in federal programs. In 2006 alone, audits by 
Inspector General offices resulted in potential savings from audit 
recommendations of $9.9 billion and criminal recoveries of $6.8 
billion. However, in order to effectively carry out their mission, 
Inspectors General must be independent and objective, which requires 
that they be insulated from improper management and political pressure.

The legislation we have before us today contains a number of 
important provisions designed to enhance the effectiveness and 
independence of Inspectors General, as well as provisions to enhance 
the accountability of the entire Inspector General system. It updates 
the Inspector General Act of 1978 to promote independence and 
accountability for Inspectors General in executive branch departments 
and agencies.

Mr. Chairman, there are many badly needed reforms to the Inspector 
General system that this legislation directly addresses. It defines the 
terms of office for Inspector Generals as fixed seven-year terms, 
helping to insulate Inspectors General from political retribution. It 
goes on to enumerate conditions for removal of Inspectors General, who 
currently serve at the pleasure of their appointing authorities, 
allowing for their termination before the end of their terms only for 
serious cause, such as malfeasance, permanent disability, inefficiency, 
neglect of duty, or conviction of a felony. Both of these provisions 
will go a long way in enhancing the ability of Inspectors General to 
remain politically independent.

In addition, this legislation requires Inspectors General to submit 
their budgets to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and 
Congress. This provision is intended to deter officials in their 
respective agencies from slashing their funding in retaliation for 
unfavorable audits, further enhancing the independence of Inspectors 
General.

Mr. Chairman, recently, concerns have been raised about possible 
misconduct by certain Inspectors General. This legislation, therefore, 
includes provisions to raise the level of accountability of the 
Inspectors General system. To cite a recent example, last week seven 
current and former members of the State Department's Inspector General 
office alleged that Inspector General Howard Krongard repeatedly 
thwarted investigations into alleged contact fraud in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, including refusing to send investigators to Iraq and 
Afghanistan to investigate $3 billion worth of State Department 
contracts. These employees allege that Krongard's partisan political 
ties have led him to thwart these investigations in order to protect 
the Bush Administration from political embarrassment.

Mr., Chairman, as you are well aware, these are extremely serious 
accusations that go deep into the heart of our Inspector General 
system. If those we are entrusting to remain independent and objective 
are instead being swayed by political ties, then our Inspector General 
system is broken. In the wake of the recent Baghdad shootout involving 
U.S. contractors from the private firm Blackwater USA, in which 17 
people were killed and 24 were injured, it is imperative that all 
agencies sending contractors to Iraq and Afghanistan be able to 
maintain sufficient oversight of these contracts. If Inspectors General 
cannot do their job because of political pressure or affiliation, it is 
our responsibility to fix the Inspector General system.

To do so, this bill contains provisions to hold Inspectors General 
themselves accountable for their decisions and actions. It also 
provides a mechanism for investigating and resolving allegations of 
misconduct by Inspectors General. The bill creates an Inspectors 
General Council and requires the Council to appoint an Integrity 
Committee, chaired by the Council's FBI representative. This Integrity 
Committee shall investigate any allegations of wrongdoing made against 
Inspectors General or their senior staff members and report 
substantiated allegations to the executive branch. Reports of Integrity 
Committee investigations must be submitted to both the Executive 
Chairperson of the Council and to Congress.

Mr. Chairman, we rely on the system of Inspectors General, and on the 
individuals who serve in this capacity, to serve as the principal 
watchdogs of the nation's major federal agencies. In 2006 alone, audits 
by Inspector General offices resulted in potential savings from audit 
recommendations of $9.9 billion and criminal recoveries of $6.8 
billion. To effectively carry out this crucial mission, it is 
imperative that Inspectors General remain independent and objective, 
which in turn requires that they be insulated from improper management 
and political pressure.

This legislation is a crucial step forward. By enhancing the 
independence of the Inspectors General and improving the accountability 
of the Inspector General system overall, this legislation will have a 
positive impact on the integrity and accountability of our government. 
I strongly support this legislation, and I urge my colleagues to do the 
same.