# JOB CREATION THROUGH ENTREPRENEURSHIP ACT OF 2009
## `cc268b30953ad334e4e74e680d9da24f`
`Ms. VELAZQUEZ — 20 May 2009`

---


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. I thank the gentleman from Ohio for his amendment. The 
legislation on the floor today places a high priority on helping 
veterans who wish to transition from the military to entrepreneurship. 
As I have noted, this bill for the first time creates a nationwide 
network of Veterans Business Centers. As our servicemen and -women 
return home from Afghanistan and Iraq, many of them will look to launch 
their own businesses as the next step in their careers. This network of 
Veterans Business Centers will aid them as they make that move. For 
many veterans, entrepreneurship is a logical next step. Already today, 
veterans comprise 14 percent of self-employed people. Service-disabled 
veterans make up 7 percent of small businesses. The underlying 
legislation would help these veterans who own their own firms as well 
as assist veterans seeking to start their own enterprises. The 
amendment before us helps to refine and improve the veterans provisions 
contained in this bill.

Specifically, the amendment requires that the new veterans centers 
offer specialized services to help unemployed veterans. In addition, 
the amendment will help the SBA improve outreach and education to 
veterans in high unemployment areas, and it would mean that the SBA 
will dedicate resources to assist those veterans who need help the 
most. In short, this amendment will do right by those who have served 
our Nation.

I now yield to the ranking member, the gentleman from Missouri, for 
any comments that he may have.