# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `cc3c95a4ddca9b991a016aba6ec691cc`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN â€” 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise to discuss two amendments that I 
have offered. The first would enable our Nation to better support our 
military and our veterans.

On September 11, 2001, our Nation was attacked by radical Islamist 
terrorists and the long war began. It is a war different than any we 
have fought before because of the willingness of our enemies to attack 
innocent Americans at home by killing themselves. Someone else has said 
they hate us more than they love their own lives. But it is also a war 
that is similar to other long wars we have fought throughout American 
history in which we were pitted against a great evil, an evil that 
threatened not just the security of our society but the ideals and 
values that form the bedrock of our way of life.

In the Civil War, we fought against the evil of slavery. In World War 
II, we fought against the evil of fascism. In the Cold War, we fought 
against the evil of communism, and today we are fighting a world war 
against the evil of Islamist terrorism.

In each of these past struggles, our Nation fully mobilized. We 
rallied as only a free people are capable of doing. Millions and 
millions of citizens bound together, shoulder to shoulder in defense of 
our freedom, with a shared sense of service, sacrifice, and support of 
our troops. Our sacrifices went far beyond the battlefield, they 
suffused our society. In each of these past struggles I have mentioned, 
those Americans who were not asked to put on a uniform nonetheless 
shared in the burdens imposed by war. That is how democracies should go 
to war.


Today, we find ourselves engaged in another global struggle for 
freedom, a struggle that stretches from the mountains of Afghanistan to 
the streets of Baghdad, from the jungles of Southeast Asia to the 
deserts of Somalia, and from the nightclubs of Bali to the subways of 
London. The fact is that though our military is fully engaged in this 
war, most of the rest of America is not.

Five years after September 11, very little has been asked of most of 
the American people. Instead of mobilizing as a nation, the burden of 
this war has fallen disproportionately on the few, on our soldiers, our 
brave men and women in uniform. They are the ones who have put their 
lives on the line so that freedom may prevail. In this Chamber and 
across our land, there have been great differences of opinion about how 
we should pursue the war in Iraq, but there has been great unity of 
opinion that our troops there should be honored. We must support them.

That has become a common banner under which all of us have rallied 
time and again. We support our troops. We say it on the floor of this 
Chamber almost every day. We support our troops. We say it on 
television and radio. We support our troops. We put it on the bumpers 
of our cars. We support our troops. But I ask my colleagues, can we 
honestly say we really have done all we can and should to support our 
troops? I think the answer is clear: No, we can't. We have not.

Look at the facts. Our Army and Marine Corps are stretched to the 
breaking point, short on personnel, training, and equipment. Our Navy 
has fallen dangerously below 300 ships. Our Air Force is forced to cut 
57,000 people in uniform in the next 5 years. Everybody in this Chamber 
knows--and all Americans know, too--about the terrible conditions of 
Walter Reed's Building 18 and the larger crisis in health care for our 
soldiers and our veterans lurking just beneath it. No one can possibly 
look at our troops and our veterans today and feel satisfied that we 
are doing all we should to support them.

I know some say these problems are only temporary, that once we leave 
Iraq, everything is going to be fine for our troops and our military. 
But this war is not just about Iraq; it is a global conflict with 
Islamist extremists who have declared war on most of the rest of the 
world. Even if the war in Iraq ended tomorrow and all our troops could 
magically be withdrawn, tens of thousands of our soldiers will still be 
needed in Afghanistan, throughout the Middle East, in the Balkans, in 
the Horn of Africa, and everywhere else freedom is being challenged. 
Even if the war in Iraq ended tomorrow, our military would still be 
twice as busy as it was during the Cold War, confronting the inhumane 
and brutal threat of radical Islam and guarding against the rise of a 
hostile superpower elsewhere in the world.

Let me put the matter I am discussing in the context of American 
history, the history of America at war, and the extent to which our 
Government has mobilized and our people have shared the sacrifice.

During the Second World War, our Government raised taxes, and we 
spent as much as 30 percent of our gross domestic product to defeat 
fascism and nazism. During the war in Korea, we raised taxes again and 
spent 14 percent of our GDP on our military. During Vietnam, we raised 
taxes--again because we needed to--and we spent 9 percent of our GDP on 
the military. Today, in the midst of a war against a brutal and 
unconventional enemy, in a dangerous world, we have cut taxes and are 
spending less than 5 percent of our gross domestic product to support 
our military.

We need to confront the reality that the defense of freedom is not 
cheap. Our soldiers know that, their families know that, but we as a 
society don't seem to know that. We are failing to pay the full price 
which it is our obligation as citizens of this great democracy to pay 
to protect our security and our liberty. In contrast to past wars, we 
are failing as a society to share in shouldering the cost of this war 
against Islamist extremists.

In his 1942 State of the Union Address, just a few weeks after the 
deadly surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, President Franklin Roosevelt 
spoke to our Nation about the sacrifice demanded of a democracy that is 
sending its bravest into harm's way to defend our way of life, and I 
quote: ''War costs money,'' President Roosevelt said. ''That means 
taxes and bonds and bonds and taxes. In a word, it means an all-out war 
by individual effort and family effort in a united country.''

We have a responsibility in this Congress in our time to give our 
troops the support they need in the world war we are engaged in against 
the terrorists


who attacked us on September 11--and attempt to do so again--and that 
means, and I quote Roosevelt again, ''an all-out war by individual 
effort and family effort in a united country.''

Every American has a responsibility to share in the burden our 
soldiers are now carrying in defense of our freedom. We simply must pay 
the cost of this war more adequately and equitably than we are today. 
It is not an acceptable answer to push the sacrifice of this war 
against terrorism onto our children and grandchildren through deficit 
spending, as we have been doing. It is not an acceptable answer to pay 
the cost of this war by squeezing some important domestic programs, as 
we have been doing. It is a false choice, I would argue, to suggest we 
must skimp at home in order to protect our security abroad. We are a 
great nation, a great economy, and we are capable of doing both. That 
was the America of Franklin Roosevelt, the America of Harry Truman, the 
America of John F. Kennedy, and the America of Ronald Reagan, and that 
must be the America of today.

Of course everyone in this Chamber supports our troops. Now it is 
time to translate that support into national policy. It is time to put 
our money where our mouth is. That is why I filed an amendment to enact 
a support-our- troops tax to help pay for the war against radical 
Islam. Because we are each threatened by this inhumane enemy, each of 
us should contribute a little more to guarantee its defeat and our 
survival.

The support-our-troops tax I have introduced and envision would be a 
progressive increase for all Americans who pay income taxes. The 
revenues from this tax would only be able to be spent for our troops 
and the care of our veterans and must be on top of any other funds that 
would otherwise have been appropriated for them.

My amendment today and the tax increase it proposes will not weaken 
our resilient economy, it will not deprive the American people of the 
many comforts they enjoy, but it will begin to restore a sense of 
shared service and sacrifice to our people and a sense of fiscal 
responsibility to our Government. It will begin to provide all that is 
required by our military to achieve victory in the long war in which we 
are engaged.

We all prefer lower taxes, but we live in a time in history that 
requires more than what we prefer--a moment when we must appreciate 
what kind of Nation we are, the blessings of liberty we enjoy, and we 
must understand what we must do together to preserve the security and 
freedom we cherish.

I have decided not to ask for a vote on this amendment tomorrow. In 
fact, I would say that I filed it as a plea, as an opening argument to 
my colleagues to join together in doing what is right and necessary to 
give our troops and veterans the support they deserve. My purpose is to 
begin a legislative effort that I hope will ultimately succeed in 
securing the additional revenues our troops and our veterans need.

We will not solve this problem today, but we cannot afford to put it 
off much longer. It is imperative that this Congress address the need 
for a genuine national mobilization, a sharing of sacrifice in order to 
prevail in the long war we are fighting. Let us truly put meaning in 
the declaration that we, each and every American, support our troops as 
they put their lives at risk for us.

I also will offer a second amendment I have introduced, and this one 
I have done with Senator Collins, the ranking member of our Homeland 
Security Committee. It would strengthen targeted areas of our homeland 
security effort. In this case, I will call up this amendment at the 
appropriate time and hope it is accepted by unanimous consent with the 
support of the chairman and ranking member of the Budget Committee. Let 
me take just a moment to explain what it does.

The administration's budget proposal for fiscal year 2008 underfunds 
critical homeland security priorities, and while the committee 
resolution currently before the Senate is a major improvement over the 
President's request and returns key homeland security programs to their 
fiscal year 2007 funding levels--understand I am saying returns these 
programs to the levels they are funded at now, not increases them--I 
believe it still must be strengthened in two critical areas.

This amendment I have introduced with Senator Collins would add an 
extra $731 million to this budget resolution for two specific grant 
programs.

First, it would direct $400 million for grants to improve the 
capabilities of first responders to communicate with one another across 
jurisdictional and geographic lines. The remaining $331 million would 
go toward the Emergency Management Performance Grants Program that 
helps emergency managers throughout our country plan and prepare for 
disaster. We propose to pay for these investments with an across-the-
board budget cut to administrative accounts, thereby adding nothing to 
the budget deficit.

More, not less, must be done to strengthen an all-hazards approach to 
homeland security to ensure we are prepared to respond to terrorist 
attacks like 9/11 as well as natural disasters like Katrina.

Last week, in passing S. 4, the Improving America's Security Act, the 
Senate voted to authorize a $3.3 billion interoperability grant program 
over 5 years, beginning with $400 million in fiscal year 2008, next 
year. This amendment that Senator Collins and I are introducing would 
keep that promise by enabling the appropriation of that $400 million 
for the advancement of a system by which our first responders can 
communicate with each other with certainty in a time of disaster.

Similarly, the Senate, in S. 4, last week substantially increased 
funding for the Emergency Management Performance Grants Program to help 
ensure that our States and localities are prepared for all hazards. I 
ask my colleagues to support this bipartisan amendment so we can 
fulfill the promise we made to our first responders and emergency 
planners when we passed S. 4 last week.

Mr. President, this amendment strengthens targeted areas of our 
homeland security effort which were neglected by the budget proposal 
from the White House. And while the committee resolution currently on 
the floor is a major improvement over the President's inadequate 
request, and returns key programs to their fiscal year 2007 funding 
levels, I believe that it still must be strengthened in this critical 
area. My amendment would add an extra $731 million to this budget 
resolution for two specific grant programs for first responders and 
emergency managers that will help them plan, train, exercise, prepare 
for, and respond to catastrophic events. I propose to pay for these new 
investments with an across-the-board budget cut to administrative 
accounts, thereby adding nothing to the Federal deficit.

Mr. President, September 11, 2001 changed our lives forever. We face 
new threats and must prepare accordingly. But the administration's 
budget proposal indicates it has turned its back on the lessons of 
September 11, 2001. And the Federal response to Hurricane Katrina and 
the subsequent mismanaged recovery proved for all to see that we are 
still a nation unprepared for catastrophe. More, not less, must be done 
to strengthen an all-hazards approach to ensure that we are prepared to 
respond to terrorist attacks as well as natural disasters. The 
President's budget request does not reflect that imperative, which is 
why I proposed to the Budget Committee chairman and ranking member an 
additional $3.4 billion above the President's proposal.

Given the financial limitations before us, however, I have decided to 
offer this scaled-down amendment. Of the $731 million in additional 
spending I am proposing, $400 million would be for grants to improve 
the capabilities of first responders to communicate with one another 
across jurisdictional and geographic lines. The remaining $331 million 
would be directed toward the Emergency Management Performance Grants, 
EMPG, Program that helps emergency managers plan and prepare for 
disaster.

We know our first responders don't have the training, equipment, and 
frequently the manpower they need to do their jobs properly. Most don't 
even have the basic capability to communicate with one another across 
jurisdictional and functional lines, and the response to Hurricane 
Katrina showed us that, sometimes during a major catastrophe, they 
can't communicate at all. Yet the President's budget continues a 4-year 
trend in cuts to first responders--a 40-percent reduction since


2004. And the President proposes nothing at all for fiscal year 2008 to 
promote interoperable communications specifically.

Most of my colleagues in the Senate know that a sustained Federal 
commitment is needed to improve the ability of our first responders to 
communicate with one another in the face of disaster. Unfortunately, 
time and again, disasters occur, and police, firefighters, and 
emergency medical workers are unable to exchange information with each 
other. Lives are lost as a result.

That is what happened on 9/11. The story of the communication 
breakdown among New York City's first responders is well known. And it 
is well known because it cost the lives of some of the bravest 
Americans who rushed to the aid of their fellow citizens. But it 
occurred at each of the 9/11 disaster sites.

Then came Katrina. The storm decimated communications infrastructure 
throughout Mississippi and Louisiana, and once again, difficulties in 
communicating among officials and first responders significantly 
impeded rescue and relief efforts.

Like many of the homeland security challenges we face, achieving 
nationwide operability and interoperability will require significant 
resources. While we don't know the exact price tag, we do know the 
costs will be significant, which is why we created a dedicated 
interoperability grant program for first responders in S. 4--the 
Senate-passed 9/11 Commission recommendation implementation bill, also 
known as the Improving America's Security Act of 2007.

That legislation authorizes $3.3 billion over 5 years beginning with 
$400 million in fiscal year 2008. The amendment I am introducing would 
match this amount in the budget resolution before us today.

Secondly, the EMPG Program is a long-standing and effective program 
whose cost is shared equally between Federal and State governments. 
EMPG grants are an essential building block in preparing for disasters 
of all types. They support critical functions such as the planning, 
training, and exercising that undergird almost all other preparedness 
efforts, whether for natural disasters or acts of terrorism. EMPG 
grants are therefore a distinct and important complement to those 
homeland security grants focused primarily on preventing, preparing for 
and responding to terrorism.

By enabling States to create better plans, EMPG grants also help 
ensure that the other money provided by the Federal Government is spent 
more effectively.

The former head of the National Emergency Management Association, who 
also is the Director of Emergency Management for the State of Alabama, 
testified before the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
Committee that having EMPG funds available for planning actually saves 
money for States, localities, and the Federal Government. For example, 
in one county in Alabama, where EMPG funds were used to develop a 
debris removal plan, the county was able to cut the cost in half of 
having debris removed after a disaster compared to other counties that 
did not have similar plans. If you spread those savings over millions 
of cubic feet of debris, the savings--of costs that would have 
otherwise been reimbursed by the Federal Government--really add up. In 
other words, the more we plan, the more efficiently we can utilize the 
funding that is available.

Again, like the interoperability grants, the Senate has already 
recognized the importance of the EMPG Program in S. 4, which 
substantially increases the authorized funding for EMPG to help ensure 
that our States and localities are prepared for all hazards. We should 
begin to fulfill the promise of S. 4 here.

Mr. President, we must learn the dual lessons of September 11, 2001, 
when terrorists attacked us on our shores killing 3,000 innocent 
civilians, and August 29, 2005, when a predicted and catastrophic 
hurricane leveled much of the gulf coast, causing 1,300 deaths, 
billions of dollars worth of damage, and untold amounts of grief.

Our enemies are ruthless and choose their own battlefields, and 
nature will strike in unpredictable ways, year after year. Yet many of 
our Nation's security gaps remain wide open. There is no cheap way to 
be better prepared.

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment so that we can fulfill 
the promise we made to our first responders and emergency planners when 
we passed S. 4 last week.

I yield the floor.