---
---

# FRESHMEN DEMOCRATS PROMOTE ACCOUNTABILITY AND OVERSIGHT
## `cc40cd4895c2a880fce67388dc1db689`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. I think I was elected to bring change to this Nation, 
a new direction to the Nation and positive things to this Nation, 
whether it is energy independence or assist with a whole variety of 
things concerning change in the direction in Iraq. I did not come 
looking to go on a witch hunt and to continue to do that.

The people obviously wanted checks and balances. They wanted 
oversight and accountability. Something like Walter Reed or something 
like we have just had with the Justice Department, those are things 
that just appeared now. These are not us going back and trying to 
dredge up old issues. These are things that have happened because of 
the neglect of the administration. These are things that appear, and we 
need to deal with them now.

I think the question is judgment. Before there wasn't good judgment. 
There wasn't oversight. There wasn't accountability. There weren't 
checks and balances. The people expect this from its Congress and from 
its Senate with respect to the White House.

Walter Reed is a shame. It is a shame. It is supposed to be one of 
our finest medical institutions anywhere in America or the world. It is 
there for our bravest men and women who have served us valiantly and 
have been harmed and hurt in a variety of ways, psychologically, 
physically, and we need to make sure that a place like


Walter Reed really does provide the care and the service and the best 
quality of medical services that we can provide, and not what has 
occurred.

The Congress today is something that gives Americans a chance for 
accountability, gives us a chance to deal with this administration on a 
straight-up basis, and the fact we are here, we are going to see 
improvements, just the fact that we are here, because it isn't just a 
rubber stamp anymore. There really is oversight.

