---
---

# NATIONAL INFANTRY MUSEUM AND SOLDIER CENTER COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT
## `cc4037609dbdf9619b9f64fb2f5ea509`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 10 June 2008`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. It is my honor to be here today, and I do want to 
thank my colleague, Sanford Bishop, for his hard work and helping me 
get the required number of signatures to get this commemorative coin, 
and anybody who has ever done that knows what a challenge it is to get 
the number of signatures required. I want to thank him and his staff; 
and also Edward Jones from my staff for all of their hard work and 
dedication that we have had over the months trying to get the requisite 
number of signatures.

For more than 200 years the United States Infantry has sought to 
protect our freedom. H.R. 3229 will honor the legacy of the United 
States Infantry with the minting of a commemorative coin. Eighty 
percent, as has been mentioned before here today, of American 
casualties are young men and women who have lost their life in battle 
were members of the infantry.

The Infantry Museum Foundation, in coordination with the United 
States Army, have already broken ground on this new National Infantry 
Museum. It has been my honor to visit it, and with General White walk 
through the street, the World War II street, to see the buildings that 
will afford our young men and women an opportunity to see what Army 
life was like during World War II. It also has the parade field which 
is now under construction, and will be a place where many ceremonies in 
the future will be held. Also, this building is going to be a green 
building. It is high tech. There is geothermal heating and cooling in 
the building. And as Mrs. Capito mentioned, a professional museum 
planner has worked very hard on this.

I would like to tell one story General White told me. In doing some 
of the exhibits, they have one exhibit where paratroopers are flying on 
a plane to jump out, and the architect of this one ride told General 
White, ''I don't know how we are doing on this. A lot of the people who 
are testing it are getting motion sickness, almost to a point of losing 
their lunch.''

And General White said, ''Then you're almost there.''

This museum is going to be a place where people can go in and feel 
the sense of battle that these young men and women feel.

And as you know, Fort Benning is the place where about 80 percent of 
our young men and women go that are going into harm's way in Iraq and 
Afghanistan and other places that we may send them, and it will give a 
great opportunity for them to go and see some of the legacy that has 
come before them and also give their families a chance to visit this 
great facility.

So it is with great honor that I introduce this bill, and I want to 
thank all of the cosponsors of this bill. It was amazing the number of 
people that I would go up to and ask to sign this legislation that 
said, you know, I spent 3 months of my life at Fort Benning going 
through my military boot camp; and so I hope that when this thing is 
open next year, that these Members that have gone through there and 
experienced that type of military life will


come down and join us in a grand opening.

Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues to please support this 
resolution.