---
---

# AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE FOR AMERICA ACT
## `cc4118fb9ddaac7a6e4c79f9fc7f85d7`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE â€” 7 November 2009`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3962, the 
Affordable Health Care for America Act. This bill is essential to 
improving North Carolina's economy and will lower health care costs for 
millions of Americans. I am committed to enacting comprehensive health 
care reform that contains costs, protects patient choice, and assures 
quality, affordable care for all Americans. As the only North Carolina 
Member on the House Ways and Means Committee, a Member of the Budget 
Committee, and a supporter of fiscal responsibility, I am pleased that 
this legislation is fully paid for and according to the Congressional 
Budget Office will reduce the deficit both in the short and long term.

Working families and small businesses are facing crushing health care 
costs that threaten their lives and livelihoods. Health care costs will 
reach $2.5 trillion in 2009, more than we are expected to spend on the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan this decade. Families already have 
experienced health care costs doubling in the past 10 years. Without 
reform, health care costs will skyrocket in the next decade. 
Independent analysis has predicted that family premiums will be $1,000 
to $9,000 lower in 2016 under this legislation compared to what they 
would be without reform.

H.R. 3962 will improve health care for seniors in Medicare by 
reducing costs and extending Medicare's solvency. This bill brings an 
end to the prescription drug ''donut hole'' which has unfairly burdened 
the pocketbooks of seniors, decreasing out-of-pocket costs by $500 
immediately, cutting copayments in half in the short term, and fully 
closing it over the next 10 years. H.R. 3962 also provides better and 
more timely payments to doctors who accept Medicare and attacks waste, 
fraud and abuse in Medicare ensuring more money goes to benefits and 
improving senior health and quality of life.

Too many people have their choices limited by insurance companies and 
financial decisions, rather than by patients and doctors. H.R. 3962 
will expand individual choice and prevent insurers from denying 
benefits that doctors recommend. This bill will place caps on out-of-
pocket health expenses, and remove the ability of insurance companies 
to place annual or lifetime limits on coverage. Choice will be 
reinforced with one-stop comparison insurance shopping through a health 
insurance exchange.

During this economic downturn, H.R. 3962 will help small businesses 
address the crushing costs of health care. In particular, this 
legislation will curb skyrocketing health care costs and provides 
greater access to health care for small businesses. Companies that 
offer their employees health insurance coverage will get a tax credit 
for two years to help them transition to, or continue, providing health 
benefits to their employees--paying up to 50 percent of their costs.

Mr. Speaker, as this bill moves to the Senate and then to conference, 
I am hopeful that we can make sure that H.R. 3962 does not 
unintentionally burden small businesses who employ seasonal workers. 
While tax incentives in the bill are designed to help small employers 
cover health care expenses, there are no allowances for seasonal 
workers common to the agricultural industry. Workers who are only 
employed for a short time by an employer should be able to get health 
insurance, but there must be provisions to ensure that this is 
affordable and not burdensome to their temporary employer. As we work 
through the process of passing a final bill to be sent to the 
President, I hope leadership will work with me to resolve this issue.



H.R. 3962 is fiscally responsible and will improve the health and 
health care of people across my district, North Carolina, and the 
country. I am pleased to be able to vote in favor of this historic 
legislation.