# TAXPAYER ASSISTANCE AND SIMPLIFICATION ACT OF 2008
## `cc44a8b5e7d00a10af77f9761c84855f`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of 
H.R. 5719, ''Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act of 2008'', 
introduced by my good friend from New York, Representative Charles 
Rangel.











Cost as Compared to the War in Iraq


This bill is estimated to cost $22 million dollars over the next 10 
years. Before my Republican colleagues balk at this number I want to 
remind them over the past year, the Administration requested a total 
of $195.5 billion for FY 2008 emergency war funds at three times--in 
its original FY 2008 request in February 2008, in an amendment for Mine 
Resistant Ambush Program (MRAP) vehicles on July 31, 2008, and in an 
amended request to cover


additional costs submitted on October 22, 2008. Thus far, we have 
appropriated $90.4 billion for war-related costs of the Defense 
Department, State/U.S. Agency for International Development, USAID, and 
the Veterans' Administration including funds in both regular and 
emergency appropriations acts. As of the enactment of the FY 2008 
Consolidated Appropriations, this brings the total for funds 
appropriated to date to $700 billion for the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan 
and enhanced security.


Let me be clear, we must support our troops and we must defend our 
Nation, but at a time when this country's economy is spiraling 
downward, this tax bill will impact Americans regardless of their 
political affiliation providing assistance at time when they most need 
it.















Summary of H.R. 5719


Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act of 2008--Amends the 
Internal Revenue Code to: (1) modify penalty provisions for tax return 
preparers who take an unreasonable position in the preparation of a tax 
return causing an underpayment of tax; (2) eliminate certain 
restrictions on the tax deduction for employee use of cellular 
telephones; (3) exempt recipients of home care services from liability 
for employment taxes for payments made to home care service providers; 
(4) authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to make grants for 
volunteer income tax assistance programs; (5) require written notice to 
taxpayers of eligibility for the earned income tax credit; (6) place 
restrictions on information relating to refund anticipation loans; (7) 
require the Secretary to notify a taxpayer of any unauthorized use of 
such taxpayer's identity (suspected identity theft) uncovered during an 
tax investigation; (8) repeal the authority of the Internal Revenue 
Service, IRS, to enter into private debt collection contracts; (9) 
extend the period during which the IRS may return property seized in a 
wrongful tax levy; and (10) increase penalties for failures to provide 
correct tax information and to file partnership or S corporation tax 
returns.

This bill delays until 2012 the 3 percent withholding requirement on 
government payments to contractors providing goods and services. It 
also directs the Secretary of the Treasury to conduct a feasibility 
study on alternative means of delivering tax refunds. H.R. 5719 seeks 
to expand the prohibitions against the misuse of Department of the 
Treasury names and symbols to include misuse on an Internet domain 
address.








Programs for the Benefit of Low-Income Taxpayers


There are parts of this tax bill that help the working poor and our 
elderly, making this tax bill truly live up to its name of being one of 
Taxpayer Assistance . . . not just a credit to the top 2 percent of 
Americans. This bill would authorize an annual $10 million grant for 
Volunteer Income Tax Assistance, VITA, programs, increasing the annual 
aggregate limitation authorized on grants to qualified low-income 
taxpayer clinics to $10 million.

This bill would allow IRS employees to refer taxpayers needing 
assistance with tax cases to qualified low-income taxpayer clinics so 
they can get the help they need. Many people are struggling with how to 
manage complicated tax cases when they can barely afford to pay their 
mortgage. This portion of the bill will alleviate the fear that is 
sometimes associated with IRS tax cases particularly among people who 
cannot afford legal counsel.






Elderly and Disabled Individuals Receiving In-Home Care


This bill would make the administrators of State and local government 
programs liable for paying the employment taxes on amounts paid by 
government programs to in-home care workers provided to elderly and 
disabled persons. This is yet another provision of the bill that 
benefits our most vulnerable populations.

















 Conclusion


Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to 
examine this bill in its entirety and recognize that it benefits all 
Americans. I fully support what Representative Rangel and the Committee 
on Ways and Means has done to alleviate some of the burden on 
taxpayers.