---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `cc5692faca6a3699c07561f193442ae7`
`Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California. I would just like to say, it was 
interesting to hear the previous speaker talk about the principles 
articulated some years ago. They are reminiscent of the arguments I 
heard on this floor some 20 years ago when Ronald Reagan made the 
courageous decision to put medium range nuclear weapons into Europe, 
despite the protest of Europe, despite the protest of many on the other 
side, despite the fact we were told we were taking a unilateral step.

Sometimes it is difficult to make these decisions, and you can't 
always guarantee success. And if we always went by that argument, 
frankly, America would not be where it is today.

Let me begin with a note of bipartisanship, however. It goes without 
saying that we can all agree that things have not progressed as we 
wished they would in Iraq. Perhaps we could all agree with the 
characterization of the Iraq Study Group that the situation in Iraq is 
grave and deteriorating. I think we can all agree that there was 
therefore a need for a change in the direction of U.S. policy in Iraq.

Not only has this happened, but we have a new Secretary of Defense 
and, as was stated on the floor just a moment ago, we have a new 
commander on the ground in Iraq.

It is at this point, however, that I am somewhat mystified by my 
friends on the other side of the aisle. Since the resolution of 
disapproval concerning this change in the direction of U.S. policy 
contains absolutely no alternative, it follows that its adoption 
represents a tacit endorsement for the policies which we all agree are 
not working. It is a simple, logical entailment that criticism of a 
change in policy without any concrete alternative is tantamount to the 
endorsement of the status quo. Thus, we find ourselves in the ironic 
situation that to support this resolution is to condone a policy that 
virtually everyone agrees has not been working.

We are telling our troops that we are sending a new commander. We are 
telling them by this resolution that we don't support what the new 
commander is doing. We are saying by this resolution we don't believe 
that the new plan will work. We are saying, Godspeed, we support you. 
But we are sending you on a fool's errand.

If you truly believe that, stand up here and have the guts to stop 
the program by cutting off the money. Take responsibility for your 
actions, which the Constitution allows you to do.

Let me suggest to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that 
the absence of any comprehensible policy objective leaves only one 
element of the resolution intact: Disapproval of the President. And 
this, in my estimation, is most unfortunate, for there was one thing on 
which I wish we could all agree. This should not be about George Bush. 
It is far more important than that.

Our response to the current state of affairs in Iraq will have 
dramatic consequences not only for the people in Iraq but for the 
security of the American people as well.



I believe we must resist the temptation to fight over matters which 
have long ceased to be of any relevance.

The question of whether we should have initially gone into Iraq is 
simply not the issue. The fact is that we are there, and that is the 
unpleasant but essential reality to which we must respond. It is not 
possible to pretend otherwise or to keep looking backward or to keep 
quoting things that were said in the past or to suggest that we 
shouldn't be where we are. We are there. It is of little solace to our 
troops to say, gee, we made a mistake in putting you there, and 
therefore we are going to pass a resolution of disapproval of what we 
are asking you to do now. What sense does that make? What sense at all 
does that make?

It should be acknowledged that findings concerning the absence of a 
collaborative relationship between Saddam Hussein and al Qaeda are not 
dispositive of the role of al Qaeda in Iraq. As Peter Berger, the only 
Westerner to conduct an interview on television with Osama bin Laden 
puts it, there is one thing that bin Laden and Bush agree on, says 
Peter Berger: that Iraq has become a central front in the war on 
terror. Berger, who did not support the decision to invade Iraq, warns 
of a potential repercussion at war's end that could make the blowback 
from the Afghan war against the Soviets look like high tea at the Four 
Seasons. This, in my estimation, is why it is so important that the 
impression not be given that our hand has been forced by Iraqi 
insurgents, notably al Qaeda of Mesopotamia.

If we have learned anything from the tragic events of the Khobar 
Towers, the Embassy bombings in East Africa, and the attack on the USS 
Cole, it is that the fanatics' perception of success only serves to 
embolden those who seek to kill us.

The extreme nature of this murderous mens rea is illustrated in an 
article in the London Telegraph which reports, ''A husband and wife 
arrested in the British terror raids allegedly planned to take their 6-
month-old baby on a mid-air suicide mission, using the baby's milk 
bottle to hide a liquid bomb.'' The story is shocking on many levels, 
but perhaps so disturbing is that it shatters the belief that mothers 
and fathers share a common commitment to the future of their children.

We face an enemy which subscribes to an ideology rooted in a 
nihilistic culture of death. This contemporary version of the ''will to 
power'' seeks justification for a totalist world view through the abuse 
of a religion to camouflage its deeper roots.

As Paul Berman has chronicled in ''Terrorism and Liberalism,'' this 
fascist-like ideology arising out of the revisionism of Sayyid al Qutb 
taught that there was no middle ground and no possibility of 
compromise. Bin Laden became interested in a radical distortion of 
Islam from the fiery taped sermons of Abdullah Azzam, a disciple of al 
Qutb, and came to share Qutb's grim view of the world and used it to 
justify mass murder.

By the late 1980s, following the crackdown by the Egyptian Government 
on the extreme Islamist groups in response to the assassination of 
Sadat in 1981, many of the Islamic militants went into exile. It was 
through the presence of Egyptian Islamist teachers in Saudi Arabia that 
bin Laden and other al Qaeda members were influenced; most notably, 
Ayman al-Zawahiri, a leader in the Egypt Islamic jihad.

Another avenue by which this totalist ideology was introduced to the 
Middle East via the Vichy Government of France during World War II, 
which despite its short shelf-life, infected the French mandated 
territory of Syria-Lebanon. It was during this time that the 
ideological foundations of the


Baathist Party were laid and a Nazi regime headed by Rahid Ali was set 
up in Iraq. During this same period, the mufti of Jerusalem was wined 
and dined by none other than Hitler himself.

The point is that there were some very dark influences on this region 
of the world which are still playing themselves out today. We cannot 
believe that our absence from this area will solve problems and allow 
us to retreat.

We must make no mistake about their intentions: They seek to kill us. 
Ayman al-Zawahiri, al Qaeda's second in command, has left us with no 
ambiguity on the matter when he states that they have the right to kill 
4 million Americans, 2 million of them children, and to exile twice as 
many and wound and cripple hundreds of thousands. No, we must not give 
such people a misapprehension about any misguided notions they may have 
about their providential place in history.

Although our ultimate objective in Iraq is to hand over power in an 
orderly fashion to a duly constituted government, the manner in which 
we do so is of the highest order of importance. That is what I don't 
hear from the other side. It is not just the question of peace being 
the absence of war, it is what we will have in the aftermath. What kind 
of a world will we have in the Middle East? Will it be safer for our 
children and our grandchildren? Will the implications of our decisions 
be heard in history as something of which we will be proud, or will it 
be just that we got tired of the effort?

And if we believe that by absenting ourselves from the area, that 
solves problems, it has never been the case. It wasn't the case when we 
got out of Lebanon following the attack on our marines; it was not the 
case when we basically got out of the area after the USS Cole.

Again, independent of the origins of al Qaeda's presence in Iraq, the 
relevant point is how al Qaeda itself perceives the war there. It is 
their potential reaction to our Iraqi policy which has most relevance. 
In this regard, the intercepted letter sent by al-Zawahiri to al-
Zarqawi is most important and has been mentioned on this floor many 
times. He said, We must think for a long time about our next steps and 
how we want to attain it, and it is my humble opinion that the jihad in 
Iraq requires several incremental goals.

The first stage: Expel Americans from Iraq.

The second stage: Establish an Islamic authority or emirate, and then 
develop it and support it until it achieves the level of caliphate over 
as much territory as you can spread its power in Iraq and Sunni areas 
in order to fill the void stemming from the departure of the Americans.

The third stage: Extend the jihad wave to the secular countries of 
neighboring Iraq.

The fourth stage: Go after Israel.

It is, therefore, clear that regardless of how we might wish the 
situation to be, wishful thinking, as described in this resolution, is 
not a basis for policy.

Al Qaeda is present in Iraq, and they perceive it to be a central 
front in the war. It is simply not possible for us to pretend 
otherwise, as much as we would like it. This resolution does nothing to 
help us in this war against Islamic fascism. In fact, it goes in the 
opposite direction.