# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `cc7103397d8cddebaa6104eb5e472167`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 13 March 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. I thank the gentleman, and Madam Speaker.

I just came out of an Armed Services hearing where we were 
discussing, once again, readiness, and we had the Army there telling us 
the great strains on their budget, the strains on their equipment, and, 
most importantly, the strains on their soldiers. And so I am standing 
here today in support of our soldiers, in support of our military, in 
support of our ability to respond to any crisis in the world. And Iraq 
is not the place that we need to put our soldiers and all of our 
resources.

Last weekend, I went to Iraq to look for myself what was going on. I 
saw a lot of contractors taking quite a bit of money, serving soldiers 
in jobs that soldiers could have done themselves. I saw the strains on 
the soldiers. I saw National Guard troops that were in for a third 
deployment. And I saw the difficulty that the Iraqis were experiencing. 
In flying over Baghdad, I saw a very sad city.

Now, what I would like to see happen is for us to take the money that 
we are pouring into Iraq and put it into Afghanistan where the original 
trouble started, where we actually had the terrorist training camps, 
where we still need to finish the business that we started in 2001. But 
we need money to do that, we need resources to do that. They have been 
diverted and put into Iraq.

There were no Iraqis on the planes that day on 9/11. We went into 
Iraq because we picked the wrong war, the wrong people, and we should 
have stayed in Afghanistan and supported the effort there. So I urge my 
colleagues and I urge the House to do the right thing by our soldiers 
and by the Iraqis as well, and to make sure that we tend to where the 
real problems are in Pakistan and also in Afghanistan.

I also would like to see some money in homeland security. The first 
thing we need to do is support our own borders. We need to protect our 
borders. And when you look at the money that we have put in homeland 
security, it is miniscule. We are still not checking all of the cargo 
that comes into the belly of a plane, we are not checking the cargo 
that comes from overseas. They say that we don't have the equipment. We 
certainly could have the equipment. Hong Kong checks every single 
container that comes from abroad. And that is the great worry, that a 
dirty bomb could come from abroad in a container. We need to use the 
money wisely. Of course we need defense. We have to invest in our 
country. But we need to take those dollars and make sure that we are 
protecting our borders first and foremost, and then also working in 
Afghanistan; and, making sure that we have enough money and enough 
resources and enough troops to respond to anywhere else in the world 
that trouble could brew. Thank you.

