# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `cc77c51ea20ee3458d8e491399edd7c7`
`Mr. DODD — 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, today I am introducing the National 
Improvised Explosive Device, IED, Preparedness and Prevention Act of 
2008. This bill will ensure that the brave men and women who are called 
on to respond to bomb threats around the country have the necessary 
tools, training, and personnel to keep our communities safe.

Furthermore, this bill gives our State and local responders 
unprecedented access to the federal policy making committees directing 
the national agencies that keep our homeland secure.

Regrettably, over the years, our people have suffered attacks from 
home-made bombs, not only on distant battlefields of Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but here in America. From the 1983 truck bombing of the 
Beirut Barracks to the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building bombing in 
Oklahoma City to the recent Times Square Military Recruiting Office 
bombing in New York City, we have seen the devastating effects such 
attacks wield.

These bombs, which have become known in the lexicon of the Pentagon 
as ''Improvised Explosive Devices'' or IEDs, are the number one cause 
of death and injury to our troops overseas. Whether it is in lives 
lost, economic damage, or the simple loss of feeling safe in our 
communities, IEDs pose a threat to American security.

We must therefore ensure that our state and local bomb squads, SWAT 
Teams, K-9 units, and public safety dive teams are sufficiently 
prepared to meet this challenge, as they most certainly will be the 
first on the scene to respond to the next IED scare. These courageous 
public servants put their lives on the line every day to keep us safe. 
The least we can do is to make certain that they have the resources 
they need and a seat at the table in critical IED policy making 
discussions. That is why I have introduced this legislation and have 
worked hard to address these very real needs.

Beginning in April 2006, I worked with Senator Robert Byrd to attach 
a provision to a Homeland Security Appropriations bill requiring DHS to 
produce a national strategy for IED preparedness.

After numerous delays, and a letter to Homeland Security Secretary


Chertoff from Senator Byrd and me, the National Security Council 
finally approved the document in late 2007.

Unfortunately, the strategy did not include adequate detail on how 
state and local input would contribute to the federal government's IED 
prevention and preparedness. It also failed to create an IED-specific 
grant program to ensure that State and local governments can carry out 
their responsibilities under the strategy.

My bill will address the threat of IEDs by:

First, statutorily establishing the Office for Bombing Prevention OBP 
within FEMA's Grant Programs Directorate.

Second, tbe bill establishes a Senior Advisory Committee, SAC, for 
IED Prevention and Response as a subcommittee under the Homeland 
Security Advisory Council.

Third, the bill requires State, Local, and Practicing Professional 
input in Advisory Committee Selection, giving voice to our First 
Responders who understand first-hand the needs of our communities.

Fourth, the legislation establishes a risk-based IED Prevention and 
Response Grant Program within the Homeland Security Department's Grant 
Program Directorate to specifically provide funds for equipment, 
training, and personnel in areas where DHS has identified shortfalls.

Last, my bill requires the Coast Guard to assess the preparedness of 
our Nation's Public Safety Dive Teams, PSDT, in the completion of Area 
Maritime Transportation Security and Facility Plans.

Mr. President, we can no longer afford to sit on our hands while many 
of our IED First Responders have to scrape by with antiquated equipment 
and training.

We have an opportunity to be proactive, to prepare for the 
unthinkable events that befell the people of London and Madrid, just a 
few short years ago.

Our Nation needs demonstrated capability in this vital area, and we 
in Congress need to lead. I urge my colleagues to join me in this 
endeavor.