# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `cc93e30a44fd0e9c1643d58097c6a5ea`
`Mr. REID — 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I wish to say a brief word so we know what 
we are going to do when we get back on Monday, 2 weeks from Monday.

First of all, I express my appreciation to the whole Senate for the 
outstanding work done by the managers of this bill, Chairman Conrad, 
Ranking Member Gregg. They did wonderful work. All the Senate speaks 
with one voice in recognizing the tremendous difficulty of this 
resolution. The work was done with civility. We had difficult 
amendments. This is a day the Senate should be proud.



I applaud and commend, I repeat, on behalf of the entire Senate, the 
brilliant work done by these two fine gentlemen.

When we come back, I was hoping we would not have to have this vote 
on Monday, but it appears we are going to have to. We have two wars 
going on. One, as we know, Afghanistan, and one we cannot put out of 
our mind in Iraq. One of the great career senior foreign service 
officers whom we have had in recent years, Christopher R. Hill of Rhode 
Island, has been nominated by the President to be Ambassador to Iraq.

It is hard to comprehend, but I am going to have to file cloture on 
that tonight before we leave. I would hope everyone who is trying to 
hold up this man would give this some thought. How does this look? It 
does not look very good. But we are going to go ahead, and we are going 
to have this cloture vote on Monday. We have a lot of other things we 
could work on. We have a lot to do. We have a 5-week work period when 
we get back. I have already informed the Republican leader as to what 
days we are not going to have votes; there are three of them.

I hope everyone has a good 2 weeks. We have a lot of time we need to 
spend at home. We have not been home. These have been very long 
periods, two long work periods we have had since we have become a new 
Congress.

Of course, I have to say for all of us, it is very exiting to all of 
us to see the Presiding Officer.