# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ccabad9f86a59198773ac2df1fd58373`
`Mrs. MALONEY of New York — 23 March 2007`

---


Mrs. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Speaker, 4 years that have been 
difficult for our country, we have had to watch the administration 
bungle the war in Iraq in just about every way imaginable. As war 
became civil war in Iraq, we watched our colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle act as a rubber stamp for this misguided war while 
refusing to ask the pertinent questions, the questions we were asking, 
the questions the American people were asking. And we watched as 3,200 
of our brave troops lost their lives in another country's civil war, 
while 24,000 came home with permanent injuries and billions upon 
billions of our taxpayers' dollars have been sunk into the quicksand 
Iraq has become.

This will be the case no more.

With the scores of oversight hearings our leadership has already 
conducted this year and now with this legislation, we are, for the 
first time, bringing accountability, timelines and end to the 
mismanaged war in Iraq.

Congress is no longer a rubber stamp.

The President has asked us time and again for money for this war 
without any strings. This, despite the fact that they let many of our 
troops go to battle without the proper equipment, and that they can't 
even account for $12 billion of taxpayer money for reconstruction.

With this bill, we will bring accountability as well as money for our 
injured soldiers who have been neglected. We are adding a total of $3.4 
billion for the military health care system, including money to address 
the problems at Walter Reed and money for head injuries and post-
traumatic stress disorder.

For 4 years, the administration's war policies have been risking 
lives and spending this country's treasure without any accountability.

This legislation will end the free ride and it will end the war.

I urge my colleagues to vote in favor.