---
---

# SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF THE YEAR OF THE AMERICAN VETERAN
## `ccbcf266e20f6c7c2810e4443f896792`
`Mr. FILNER — 24 June 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, we are debating House Resolution 1098, 
although the ranking member spent all of his time on a bill called S. 
1315 which earlier passed the full Senate by a vote of 96-1. Would 96 
Senators support a bill that cuts nearly $1 billion in special monthly 
pension benefits for elderly veterans? No, because that's not what S. 
1315 does. And in fact, the leader of the minority party, Senator John 
McCain, voted in favor of this bill; and he said, I certainly believe 
that we should compensate not only the thousands and thousands of 
veterans who get the money from the bill but the Filipinos for their 
brave service to our Nation.

But we are on House Resolution 1098 to honor the Year of the American 
Veteran. I will tell the Speaker that in the last year and a half of a 
Democratically led Congress, about $17 billion of new money came into 
the VA system to help the health care of our veterans. That is real 
contribution to health care. That is real contribution to mental health 
that we need to deal with.

We have thousands and thousands, even though the Department of 
Defense refuses to admit it, of young men and women coming back from 
Iraq and Afghanistan with traumatic brain injury and PTSD, post-
traumatic stress disorder. These require months and months, if not 
years and years, if not decades, of treatment from a grateful Nation 
for their service. We have put the money in that will begin to do that 
job.

Of course, our committee has to continue with oversight over 
bureaucracies that tend to respond rather slowly. But in our Resolution 
1098, in our budget which meets the veterans' groups so-called 
independent budget, which is put together by them, and for the first 
time in the history of the independent budget for 2 years in a row we 
exceeded their budget from this Democratic Congress. So the Year of the 
American Veteran is not just words. It's budget dollars, it's 
commitment, it's programs, it's support for our brave veterans, like I 
said, whether from this war or earlier wars.

So, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to unanimously support House 
Resolution 1098.

I would also ask unanimous consent that all Members may have 5 
legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous material on this resolution.