# None
## `ccc777868e357b4efcd5505db10f62eb`
`Mr. BOCCIERI — 19 May 2010`

---


Mr. BOCCIERI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Kansas (Mr. 
Moore) and the committee for their work on this important bill that 
recognizes the service of our strong military members who find 
themselves on multiple rotations, and some of those who find themselves 
injured. Today the Blue Star/Gold Star Flag Act of 2009 is a tribute to 
those military families.

In 2009, one of my constituents was required by her condominium 
association to remove the Service flag. It was placed in her window in 
honor of her son, an Iraq war soldier who had served multiple tours and 
was twice injured in the line of duty while serving over in Iraq. They 
were both roadside bombs.

The Service flag, or the Blue Star flag or Gold Star flag, is an 
official banner, as has been said, by the Department of Defense, and 
it's been on display by families of members serving in the Armed Forces 
during a period of war.

The Service flag has significant meaning to our Nation and the 
families of the men and women who are serving. It's a symbol of the 
sacrifices and service of our members of the military who put their 
lives on the line every day to protect all of us, and that's why family 
members should be allowed to fly the flag in honor of those sacrifices, 
no matter where they live.

This bipartisan, commonsense measure is based on the Freedom to 
Display the American Flag Act of 2005 that passed both Chambers 
overwhelmingly during the 109th Congress. The legislation prohibits 
residential real estate management associations from preventing 
residents from displaying the


Service flag on or around their homes or places of dwelling. I 
introduced this measure to ensure that people have the right to display 
the Service flag without limitation.

As a major in the Air Force Reserve and flying multiple missions in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, flying those wounded and fallen soldiers out of 
the country, it is significant that we allow the families to be 
represented and to be represented of the service of their loved one. I 
was honored when I learned that the Ohio State Legislature had 
displayed a Service flag for me while I was serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan from 2004 through 2005. It was at the State capitol and on 
display.

I would like to thank all the supporters of this legislation, as my 
office has received thousands of signatures from Ohioans and members of 
the military, as well as those families around the country who support 
this measure, as well as endorsements from the Air Force Sergeants 
Association, VoteVets.org, and over 50 of my colleagues have supported 
this legislation, which will aid in its passage.

I would like to thank Chairman Frank, Ranking Member Spencer Bachus 
for their help on this important bill that honors the service of our 
military members and gives all people, no matter where they live, the 
right to honor them, too.

As I've said before, as a military member myself, I'm proud to stand 
before you today having worked on those critical measures which can 
become law for our veterans, including improving access to health care 
in rural areas for veterans, ensuring the VA can adequately handle 
mental health issues for those returning vets from the front lines.

You know, today we stand together in a bipartisan way. We intend to 
make the Blue Star/Gold Star Flag Act of 2009 a law for military 
families. While they stood up and fought for us, it's now time that we 
stand up and fight for their families to recognize their service.