# HONORING THE SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF U.S. ARMY 1ST SERGEANT JOSE SAN  NICOLAS CRISOSTOMO
## `ccd62993e941b1f4fd237dc431c8d34e`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 9 September 2009`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the service and 
sacrifice of


United States Army 1st Sergeant Jose San Nicolas Crisostomo. 1st SGT 
Crisostomo, originally from the village of Inarajan, Guam, was assigned 
to International Security Assistance Force in Kabul, Afghanistan. 1st 
SGT Crisostomo passed away on August 18, 2009 while on duty in 
Afghanistan. He was 59 years old and the oldest servicemember to perish 
in Afghanistan.

1st SGT Crisostomo was born on August 29, 1949 to Joaquin and 
Joaquina Crisostomo and lived a life of honor, service, and dedication 
to preserving his culture. Known to his friends and family as ''Joe'' 
or ''Uncle Sinbad,'' 1st SGT Crisostomo is remembered for his altruism, 
patriotism, and vibrant personality. He was active in promoting the 
Chamorro culture and was a founder and former president of ''Grupun 
Minagof,'' an organization established to help Guamanians living in 
Washington state. His leadership and dedication to his community and 
his family will remain an enduring legacy.

A longtime member of the U.S. Army, 1st SGT Crisostomo re-enlisted in 
2008 after previously serving for 24 years, which included tours of 
duty in the Vietnam War and the first Gulf War. 1st SGT Crisostomo was 
a two-time recipient of the Bronze Star for combat valor and received 
the Purple Heart for wounds sustained in combat. He was also awarded 
the Kuwait Liberation Medal in 1991.

I join our community in mourning the loss of 1st SGT Crisostomo and 
in offering condolences to his wife, Patricia Leon Guerrero Crisostomo; 
his children, Tricia Renee, Jeffrey Joe (''Jay''), and Dominic Jay; his 
10 grandchildren and to his many family and friends. 1st SGT Crisostomo 
served with honor and distinction, like the many sons and daughters of 
Guam who served before him, and he gave the ultimate sacrifice in 
defense of our country.

God bless the family and friends of 1st Sergeant Jose San Nicolas 
Crisostomo, God bless our men and women in uniform protecting our 
country, God bless Guam, and God bless the United States of America.
