# None
## `cce878e9cfbf5b3a5f19d1f45d6870a1`
`Ms. CASTOR â€” 1 August 2008`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Madam Speaker, I am pleased to recognize the 60th 
anniversary of the signing of Executive Order 9981, in which President 
Truman ordered the racial integration of the Armed Forces, declaring 
that, ''there be equality of treatment and opportunity for all persons 
in the Armed Services without regard to race, color, religion or 
national origin.''

While it is fitting that we celebrate the official 60-year 
anniversary, we should also recognize that African Americans have been 
fighting on behalf of our Nation from the American Revolutionary War to 
the current Global War on Terror. The sacrifices made and service given 
by African American soldiers to our country, even when our country 
failed to live up to its own promise of equality and justice for all, 
is a testament to their belief that hard work and faith would 
eventually allow them to become full partners in every facet of 
society, including our Armed Forces.

The celebration of this anniversary also gives me an opportunity to 
recognize a trailblazing African American woman from my hometown who 
was among the first five African American women in Tampa to join the 
Women's Army Auxiliary Corps back in 1942, six years prior to the 
signing of the Executive Order. Mrs. Willie Mae Williams, who 
celebrated her 95th birthday this past November, proudly served her 
nation paving the way for others from her community, and women in 
particular, to follow in her steps.

In her recent interview with the Women Veterans Historical Project 
for the Library of Congress, Mrs. Williams gave a very candid and 
informative look at the experience she had in the military as a woman 
of color. At that time, women were not allowed to face combat, instead 
serving as cooks and laundry workers, who often had to go together in 
groups to take showers to ensure their safety, and who endured taunts 
from officers who opposed their participation, either on the basis of 
their gender or color, and in some instances both. While Mrs. Williams 
acknowledged that life in the service for women of color was ''rough'', 
she certainly views herself and others as role models for the women who 
came after. She observed, ''We were good pioneers.''

Indeed, the service of Mrs. Williams and other women like her has led 
to the growth in service of African American women and men throughout 
the years. Currently, 20 percent of the more than 1,754,900 service 
members who have fought in support of the ongoing Operation Iraqi 
Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom are minorities, evidence that 
the United States could not maintain an all-volunteer force without the 
service of and critical role played by minorities, including women.

Our Armed Forces have been served by some of the most brilliant 
African American leaders from Benjamin O. Davis Senior and Junior to 
Colin Powell as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Today, minorities 
serve in senior leadership positions throughout the Armed Forces, as 
commissioned, warrant and non-commissioned officers. The advancement of 
these men and women is evidence that the integration of the Armed 
Forces not only enhanced the combat effectiveness of the military 60 
years ago, but continues still to ensure that America has a diverse 
array of its best and brightest working to defend it.

I am pleased to commemorate this historic event, and salute all our 
brave men and women who have served us so well through the years.
