# IRAQ ASSESSMENT
## `cd06333e076e5004a0d48d360b4862c9`
`Mr. BURGESS â€” 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. BURGESS. And of course I do need to make the point that this was 
an area that just a few months before had seen some of the most intense 
fighting. And many of the buildings at the front of the street, well, 
let's just put it this way, a JDAM doesn't do anything for your drive-
up appeal. And there were several buildings that obviously had suffered 
the scars of war. But as you went a little further down the street, you 
began to come upon scenes such as this.

And I would simply point out that at the very edge of the photograph 
here, and I had forgotten this, we see a brightly colored garment set 
that looks like it would be appropriate for a woman to wear. I saw more 
women on this trip to Iraq than I can recall seeing at any other trip 
where I had been through the country. And it was, to me, reassuring 
that the female members of Iraqi society felt comfortable enough to 
travel out to the shops on a Saturday morning and be with their 
husbands and their children, as you so eloquently point out, as 
commerce was breaking out all over on the streets of Ramadi.

Again, I just want to show another picture of some children. These 
guys were pretty curious as to what was going on with all of these 
strange folks that had shown up and were walking through town. Again, 
you can see in the background some additional brightly colored wares 
for sale. This fellow turned out to be fairly inquisitive. And he had a 
keen interest, again, in writing instruments that I want to assume 
that's because his school was starting up in a few weeks' time.

What has been described as ''The Anbar Awakening,'' we heard the 
President reference it last night, began in the city of Ramadi where 
the Sunnis began to recognize, you know, these guys from al Qaeda; 
they're actually not our friends. They refer to the Americans as 
occupiers, but maybe it's the al Qaeda guys that are actually the 
occupiers. And we do believe that at some point the Americans want to 
go home, but we can't say the same for our friends in al Qaeda. And the 
Sunni sheiks, the tribal leaders in the towns, rapidly turned it. And 
to hear it be described by our marines and our soldiers there, it 
literally turned on a few weeks' time, some rather intense fighting as 
the surge began to mount its full reinforcement, and then suddenly 
things changed dramatically for the better.

And for me, on this trip, the one thing that I saw that was different 
from any other trip that I had taken over there on the ground, now, we 
can criticize the Baghdad government, and both sides of the aisle I 
know will do that with regularity, I may do so before this night is 
over, but the local political shift that's taking place on the ground 
in Iraq, the county commissioners, the city councilmen, the mayors that 
are doing the kinds of work that you want your local government to do, 
you know, quite honestly, I go home every weekend and the people are 
happy to see me. But if there's a problem at home, most of the time 
they're not going to call their Congressman; they'll call their mayor, 
they'll call their county commissioner, or they'll call their county 
administrator or their county judge because those are the folks that 
are closest to the people, and it's up to them to deliver for their 
constituents, the same conditions we have here in our districts back 
home.



The local political shift really is what, to me, is the fundamental 
building block of the return of civil society, a civil society that had 
been so badly damaged under the years of Saddam, a civil society that 
has been so badly damaged by the war and then the insurgency that 
followed is now beginning to take hold. And it is very effective.

Now, the question remains, will the central government in Baghdad 
respond to the needs of those local officials with enough dispatch that 
they are, in fact, bolstered and supported by the central government in 
Baghdad? It is sometimes startling to me to think that a government so 
young can already have such an entrenched bureaucracy that is slow to 
act. But nevertheless, we hear some stories coming out that there is 
more and more of this type of activity occurring. But again, the 
stability at the local level was something that I don't think I can 
tell you that I had witnessed on any of the five previous trips through 
that country. All of those trips more dealt with the security that our 
forces were establishing. Now we see the security that is actually 
being established by the Iraqis themselves.

They had a job fair, I understand, in this part of town about a week 
before and hired everything that showed up. And there were a lot of 
people that came. The jobs were fairly labor intensive. Again, there 
had been a lot of bombing in the city. There was a lot of concrete 
littering the street that had to be picked up. The reinforcing steel 
that was embedded in the concrete had to be broken out or dissected 
out. There were several groups of men that were straightening out this 
rebar to use as reconstruction projects. But again, the work was going 
on. And the mood, this was July in western Iraq, it's 10 o'clock in the 
morning and probably already 125 degrees, but the mood of the people 
was truly something that I will always remember because they were doing 
for themselves the types of things that free people want to do for 
themselves. And it was a wonderful feeling. And you know the soldiers 
could feel it, too, when they walk through these towns.

The ability to give to these young men a life ahead of them that they 
wouldn't have had, they would have been conscripted into Saddam's army 
and fought a war at someplace or other; they now have a life ahead of 
them that really, quite honestly, their parents dared not hope for them 
and now it is brought to them courtesy of the United States Marines, 
United States Army.

I yield back to the gentlelady from Tennessee, and I want to thank 
her for allowing me to participate in the discussion this evening.