---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `cd07e7875292ad7e31ea0650ed4af356`
`Mr. AKIN — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, I believe that the reason that Americans send 
us here to Congress is to have us to solve problems. And I don't think 
any of us mind, and I certainly don't mind, the accusation by Democrats 
to say that the war and the situation in Iraq is incompetently planned, 
or that we should change course, or that we should have bold, new 
initiatives. In fact, I think that's what we should be discussing. But 
unfortunately, what we have here today is not a matter of solving 
problems but rather of playing politics. Because the bill in front of 
us is not a bold plan. It doesn't have any segment of a plan at all. It 
just simply says, we're going to pull a bunch of troops out at a 
particular time. It


doesn't say how many; it just says we are going to pull some troops 
out. You know, the people who fought World War II would have liked very 
much to have ended the war more rapidly if they could just put 
something on a wish list and say, we're going to bring some troops 
home. But you can't do that until you win a war. And what we have 
before us is not a bold plan, and it's not a constructive suggestion to 
say, hey, you've incompetently managed the war, so here's a better way. 
There's no better way. It offers nothing other than just a bunch of 
wishes.

Now, if we want to send this to whoever it is that wants to grant 
wishes, that might be useful, but it's absolutely useless in terms of 
solving problems. And that's why we should be here.

I have to take the Democrats to task. You forgot, you guys are in the 
majority. The people elected you to solve problems. This doesn't solve 
a problem, it just simply says we want to bring some troops home. It 
doesn't say how or what we're going to do or what the strategy is. It 
says, oh, we've already done this one thing for a month, and now we 
just want to turn around and bring the troops home.

I think one thing that we can understand and one thing that we need 
to do is to stand away from this problem a little bit and put it in the 
broadest terms, and that is the terms as Americans.

There is one thing that has joined us together that we just 
celebrated, and that's the Fourth of July. And the Fourth of July we 
signed a Declaration of Independence, and the heart of that document, 
the heart of what America believes in is the fact that it says we hold 
these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal and 
endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights; among these 
is life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. And we stand tall on the 
Fourth of July when we remember that set of principles.

So the job of government is to protect those rights. And who is it 
that our sons and daughters are now fighting? They're people who 
believe that we blow up innocent people to make a political statement. 
They're people who believe that we use terror to compel people so that 
they don't have freedom and that people cannot pursue happiness and 
women cannot be educated. And so, is it so odd that we find ourselves 
fighting against people who believe the diametric opposite of 
everything America has ever stood for?

I taught those principles to my little kids when they were children. 
And they started the ''Marine Club.'' Here is a picture of them at a 
flag ceremony in their rag-tag uniforms bought from their Army surplus 
store, a bunch of little kids. Now what has happened is they have 
implemented those ideas. Well, what has happened is this little kid 
here is now Special Forces Air Force Academy, just graduated last 
month. And this other one, my son, has graduated from the little Marine 
club to the big Marine club. Here is a cache of weapons found in 
Fallujah. There is my son. And the reason that they are there and the 
reason that he risked his life numerous times is because he does 
believe there is a God that gives rights to all people, and that 
governments should protect life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
And when we, as Americans, forget that, then we start to lose our sense 
of direction in what we're doing.

Until there is a specific proposal, then there is nothing being 
offered at all. There is not leadership. And this is merely politics.