---
---

# SECRETARY CLINTON VISIT
## `cd0996ca1e482e2ada628aa82db70243`
`Mr. WEXLER — 10 March 2009`

---


Mr. WEXLER. Madam Speaker, as Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on 
U.S.-Turkish Relations and Turkish Americans, I was greatly encouraged 
by the recent visit of U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to our 
ally, Turkey. This historic visit sends a clear signal that the United 
States greatly values its strategic partnership with Turkey--which has 
benefited both of nations for over half a century.

During the visit, Secretary Clinton announced an upcoming trip to 
Turkey by President Barack Obama, and together with Turkish Minister of 
Foreign Affairs Ali Babacan released a Joint Statement.

Over the coming months, I am convinced that U.S.-Turkish relations 
will continue to deepen and flourish under the stewardship of President 
Obama, Secretary Clinton and the new Administration. It is clear that a 
strong and mutually respectful friendship is in the national interests 
of the United States and Turkey, and also serves to promote regional 
peace, security and prosperity. To that end, I encourage all of my 
colleagues to review the text of Secretary Clinton and Foreign Minister 
Babacan's joint statement, which I am including in the Congressional 
Record.


 Joint Statement by Turkey and the United States of America on the 
Occasion of the Visit of U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton 

 Upon the Invitation of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Turkey Ali 












 Babacan, March 7, 2009




 Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Foreign Minister Ali 


 Babacan today reaffirmed the strong bonds of alliance, 


 solidarity and strategic partnership between the Republic of 


 Turkey and the United States, as well as the commitment of 


 both countries to the principles of peace, democracy, 


 freedom, and prosperity enshrined in the Shared Vision and 


 Structured Dialogue document agreed to in July 2006.



 Turkey and the United States reiterated their determination 


 to continue close cooperation and consultation on all issues 


 of common concern. They pledge to contribute to peace and 


 stability in the Middle East and in this context, to support 


 a permanent settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict, 


 including alleviating the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and 


 resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict on the basis of a 


 two-state solution; to enhance energy security and to expand 


 the Southern corridor of natural gas and oil infrastructure 


 to enable Caspian basin and Iraqi energy producers to reach 


 European and world markets; to promote peace, stability, and 


 prosperity in the south Caucasus, including through U.S. 


 support for the efforts of Turkey and Armenia to normalize 


 relations and joint support for the efforts of the Minsk 


 Group to resolve the Nagorno Karabakh conflict; to continue 


 to cooperate in the Balkans; to support strongly a 


 comprehensive and mutually-acceptable settlement of the 


 Cyprus question under the auspices of the UN and in this 


 context ending the isolation of the Turkish Cypriots; and to 


 enhance their cooperation in the fight against terrorism, 


 particularly against their common enemies, the PKK and al-


 Qaeda. The United States will continue its intelligence 


 support for Turkish operations against the PKK and is 


 reviewing ways to be more supportive. As members of the G-20, 


 Turkey and the United States pledge continued cooperation to 


 deal with the global economic crisis and efforts to increase 


 and diversify bilateral economic relations with particular 


 emphasis on trade, investment, scientific and technological 


 cooperation.



 Secretary Clinton and Foreign Minister Babacan discussed 


 Turkey's accession to the European Union as a member, a goal 


 the United States continues to strongly support, as well as 


 the Government of Turkey's continued emphasis on reform 


 process. With their commitment to Transatlantic relations and 


 as Allies in a strong NATO, they pledge continued cooperation 


 in Afghanistan, including through continued Turkish 


 contributions to Afghanistan. They reiterated their 


 commitment to the sovereignty, unity and territorial 


 integrity of Iraq as well as reiterated their support for a 


 democratic, pluralistic, unified and federal Iraq. They also 


 welcome Turkey's deepening relations with the Government of 


 Iraq as evidenced by high level visits as well as trilateral 


 meetings to discuss cooperation against the PKK. Turkey and 


 the United States will strongly back the United Nations 


 Security Council in its work to maintain global peace and 


 security for the prevention and removal of threats to the 


 international community and in this context will cooperate in 


 dealing with issues including terrorism, drug trafficking, 


 organized crime and the threat of the proliferation of 


 weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery in 


 the region and beyond.



 Finally, they reaffirmed their determination to diversify 


 the broad based bilateral relations particularly between the 


 Turkish and American people. In that context, the Secretary 


 and Minister announced the establishment of ''Young Turkey/


 Young America: A New Relationship for a New Age.'' This 


 initiative will enable emerging young leaders in Turkey and 


 the United States to develop initiatives that will positively 


 impact people's lives and invest in future ties between the 


 leadership of our two countries.
