# STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `cd0cd34c36ba933daa5629805741e80e`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 11 April 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I again thank my friend and colleague 
from Iowa, Senator Harkin, for his steadfast leadership in this 
extraordinarily important issue. We are full of hope this afternoon 
about the votes here in the Senate. I welcome just a few moments to 
express my own views about where I think we are and what I think the 
issues really are before the Senate.

For years, many of us have fought the same battle, the battle to give 
those suffering or injured every ethical option for new cures. For 
those speaking on the Senate floor, perhaps little changes from one 
year's debate to the next. We still speak of hope. We still speak of 
dreams denied when those hopes are dashed. We still speak of our belief 
that medical research should be valued.

But for those who listen to our debate, a year can make all the 
difference in the world. For a young man or woman bravely serving their 
country, a year can make the difference between vigorous active service 
and life in a wheelchair or a brain injury from a war wound. For 
someone fighting the long and lonely battle against Alzheimer's 
disease, a year can make the memory of a beloved spouse or child a 
little fainter, a little more distant. For a patient battling against 
the tremors of Parkinson's disease, a year can mean more and more life 
activities fade out of reach.

If overturning the administration's unwarranted restrictions on stem 
cell research brings just one breakthrough, just one of the many that 
our best scientists believe are possible, that breakthrough can mean 
all the difference in the world for the patients who benefit. They 
cannot wait another year, or another day, for the help stem cell 
research can bring, and we should not wait in aiding them. We must take 
action here and now to end these unnecessary and harmful restrictions 
on lifesaving research.

Continuing the administration's restrictions means the gap between 
what scientists could do and what they are allowed to do grows even 
wider.

Continuing the restrictions means our Nation's best scientists will 
go on having to waste precious time on pointless redtape and 
bureaucratic obstacles, time that should be spent on the search for new 
cures.

Continuing the restrictions means having to tell the patients who are 
counting on the promise of stem cell research: Wait just a little 
longer, dream just a little less, hope just a little more faintly.

The Senate must act, just as the House has already, to unlock the 
potential of stem cell research.

When the Congress has approved this needed legislation, we must turn 
our attention to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue and urge the President of the 
United States not to veto the legislation that gives so much hope to so 
many.

Mr. President, just an extraordinary statement and comment from the 
Nation's leading scientist, Dr. Zerhouni, who is the head of the 
National Institutes of Health:




 From my standpoint as NIH director, it is in the best 


 interest of our scientists, our science, and our country that 


 we find ways and the nation finds a way to allow the science 


 to go full speed across adult and embryonic stem cells 


 equally.


This is the statement of the head of the National Institutes of 
Health, an extraordinary scientist and researcher himself. It couldn't 
be said more clearly and more compellingly.

Finally, to remind ourselves what this really is all about--because 
it is basically about individuals--here are two extraordinary soldiers 
who served in Iraq. James Crossby, Winthrop, MA, is now in a wheelchair 
because of a damaged spinal column--others could have similar 
situations from their own States--and Sgt Jason Wittling, Marine Corps, 
injured in Karbala, again with spinal cord injuries. And that is one of 
the areas where there is such great hope.

Finally, one of the most moving letters I have received in the time I 
have been in the Senate was on this issue, from Lauren Stanford, from 
Plymouth, MA--15 years old. She wrote just after watching the President 
of the United States speak on this issue when he set up the regime on 
which we have all commented, which limits the great possibilities we 
have talked about during the course of this debate. This is what she 
said:




 That night--


Referring to the night the President talked--



 President Bush talked about protecting the innocent. I 


 wondered then: what about me? I am truly innocent in this 


 situation. I did nothing to bring my diabetes on; there is 


 nothing I can do to make it any better. All I can do is hope 


 for a research breakthrough and keep living the difficult, 


 demanding life of a child with diabetes until that 


 breakthrough comes. How, I asked my parents, is it more 


 important to throw discarded embryos into the trash than it 


 is to let them be used to hopefully save my life--and to give 


 me back a life where I don't have to accept a constant, 


 almost insane level of hourly medical intervention as 


 ''normal''? How could my nation do this to me?


That is the issue which Lauren Stanford has put before the Senate. 
Hopefully she will get an overwhelming, bipartisan answer this 
afternoon when the roll is called.

I yield the remainder of my time..