---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `cd1718c555e0f4b606de3ade433f8bcc`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN — 14 February 2007`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. Speaker, as I rise I do want to say a special 
thank you to our troops who are deployed tonight, to those that are 
from Tennessee's Seventh Congressional District, many of those from 
Fort Campbell, and our National Guardsmen, our Reservists, certainly to 
our veterans.

I can think of no more wonderful gift to give those and to leave for 
those you love than the gift of freedom. And certainly, on Valentine's 
Day, on Valentine's evening that is an important, important thought for 
us to have. And I appreciate all of our men and women and the efforts 
that they make to keep this Nation free, and to be certain that our 
children and our grandchildren have the opportunity to grow up in 
freedom and to enjoy the America that we have enjoyed.

As we have talked about this resolution, the 97 words that exist in 
this very short resolution, we have talked about it from different 
angles, how a nonbinding resolution and a no confidence resolution 
affects our troops, the thoughts that went into creating this 
resolution. And one of the questions that I continually come back to 
that actually was posed to me by some of the veterans in my district, 
is whose side are you on? When you offer a resolution like this, whose 
side are you on?

And the other question that keeps coming back is who are you 
listening to?

Certainly, I would hope that we would all be standing on the side of 
freedom. I would hope that we would all be standing on the side of our 
troops. And I do hope that we would all be listening to our commanders 
in the field.

There has been some mention this evening of General David Petraeus, 
who this weekend took control of command in Iraq. And I will give you 
some of his quotes, some of the things that he has had to say in the 
last few days as he is over there and working those. And I quote from 
him. ''Our job in the months ahead, supporting and working with Iraqi 
forces, will improve our security so that the Iraqi Government can 
resolve the tough issues it faces, and so that the economy and basic 
services can be improved. These tasks are achievable. This mission is 
doable.''



Indeed, those on the ground believe this is doable. We know that it 
is doable, and we know in the global war on terror we have to win. We 
cannot lose. We have to win. The civilized world depends on defeating 
terrorists and winning.

We also know that Iraqis are making progress. There has been some 
debate and some mention tonight about progress not being made in Iraq. 
And, Mr. Speaker, I will offer to you that indeed you are not going to 
hear this on the 6 o'clock news, the 10 o'clock, 11 o'clock news around 
the country because the major media outlets just don't want to report 
it. But we are finding out that while this body sets aside a political 
debate that some think will benefit them, what we see is our troops in 
the field in Iraq are making progress. They understand their mission. 
They know what they are about every day. We see that even just in the 
last few days, when you are talking about Baghdad, three Iraqi Army 
brigades are now deploying to Baghdad to reinforce the six Iraqi Army 
brigades and nine National Police brigades that are already there. 
These are steps that are taking place. This is progress that the Iraqi 
people are making on behalf of their quest for freedom. These are their 
steps, these are their steps toward freedom and toward leadership.

How dare we discount that? How dare we not recognize that? How dare 
we not encourage that? And how dare we take steps to embolden and 
encourage the enemy who would seek to strike them down?

Mr. Speaker, we should be very, very careful whom we listen to, and 
we should be very thoughtful as we answer the question, Whose side are 
you on?

I am so grateful, Mr. Speaker, that those that have gone before us 
chose to be on the side of freedom.