---
---

# CONSOLIDATED SECURITY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `cd19ed7b574cfb0cf8eb9259743683eb`
`Mr. HOYER — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, Chairman Ike Skelton and the Armed Services 
Committee have worked tirelessly to put this bill together, and I want 
to begin by recognizing that hard work. Chairman Skelton is among this 
House's most dedicated advocates for our men and women in uniform. And 
he and his committee have put together a good authorization bill that 
deserves our support.

The bill authorizes a total of $601.4 billion, including $531.4B in 
budget authority for the Department of Defense and the Department of 
Energy's national security programs. It also includes significant 
commitments to new shipbuilding, advanced aircraft, and efforts to 
protect our troops in the field from improvised explosive devices.

This bill goes a long way to rebuild our military, which is still 
battered from years of fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. It provides 
for an increase of 7,000 active-duty Army personnel, 5,000 more Marine 
Corps personnel, and 1,023 more Navy sailors. It dedicates significant 
amounts for the reset of worn-down armed forces equipment: $8.6 billion 
for Army and $1.8 billion for Marine Corps. $800 million is also 
authorized for the Reserve and National Guard, which have borne a heavy 
share of the fighting.

But just as importantly, this bill looks out for the needs of our 
troops at a time when our country has asked so much from them. They 
deserve all the support we have to give. That's why this bill gives 
them a much-needed raise of 3.9%, more than the President's request, 
blocks increases in their healthcare payments, and authorizes $3.2 
billion to expand quality family housing.

In sum, this is a bill that strikes a sound balance between the needs 
of our national defense and the needs of our troops and their families. 
The road back to full military readiness will be long and hard--but 
this bill is a big step in the right direction. I urge my colleagues to 
support this vital piece of legislation--vital for our troops and vital 
for our Nation's security.