---
---

# RETURN OF SENATOR TIM JOHNSON
## `cd1ab9e33adfc9e82e86155193162a11`
`Mr. THUNE — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I rise this afternoon to join my colleagues 
in welcoming a colleague and a friend, Senator Tim Johnson, back to the 
Senate.

Senator Johnson's return today to this illustrious Chamber marks an 
incredible journey that took him from normal daily life, to near death, 
to a remarkable recovery.

For the last 8 months, people from all walks of life, both Democrats 
and Republicans, have approached me wanting to know how Senator Johnson 
was doing, and nearly every single one of those individuals told me 
they were praying for him.

Shortly after this happened, I was traveling in Iraq and Afghanistan 
and I ran into military personnel, members of the diplomatic corps, 
other civilians, all asking how Senator Johnson was doing, all offering 
up their prayers and support.

I happen to believe it was those prayers from across South Dakota, 
across the United States, and from around the world that brought 
Senator Johnson back from his life-threatening condition.

Since being released from the hospital, Senator Johnson has learned 
how to walk and talk again. His doctors have been amazed at his 
progress. For some of us, it is no surprise. Having faced him in a 
closely fought campaign, I know how tough this man is. After all, 
Senator Johnson has a strong Scandinavian background, something we both 
share. Without question, today marks an important milestone in Senator 
Johnson's recovery.

Many of us will never know the struggles Senator Johnson and his 
family have been through. In fact, most of us take for granted our 
health, and we take for granted our time with family and friends, 
birthdays and holidays.

For me, Senator Johnson's experience has made me pause and appreciate 
the little things that make life so precious. Senator Johnson turned 60 
in December, and the party, obviously, had to be delayed. Upon 
returning to South Dakota last week, Senator Johnson and his family 
celebrated both his 60th birthday and Christmas. I am guessing it was 
his best birthday and Christmas ever.

While Senator Johnson and I come from different political 
backgrounds, we have worked to put our differences aside as we 
represent the people of South Dakota. In fact, since I was elected to 
the Senate in 2004, we have worked closely on a number of issues of 
importance to South Dakota--everything from a highway bill, to an 
energy bill, to drought relief, water projects, and, of course, saving 
Ellsworth Air Force Base from closure under the BRAC process.

I firmly believe that because he and I worked to put our differences 
aside, our offices were able to coordinate easily to serve the State of 
South Dakota during his hospitalization and recovery.

The Senate is a very close-knit body, and it is noticeable when a 
Senator is absent for any length of time. Today, however, that absence 
no longer exists. By the grace of God, through the prayers of thousands 
upon thousands of Americans, by the support of an amazing wife Barbara 
and family, and network of friends, and by his sheer will and 
determination, Senator Johnson is back.

Tim, I know today means a great deal to you and to your family, and 
it is good to see you back in the Senate.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to 
the consideration of S. Res. 306, which was submitted earlier today.