---
---

# HONORING ARMY PFC EMILY S. PETTIGREW
## `cd231d3795c39a861ed920af0a06596a`
`Mr. BURGESS — 12 January 2007`

---


Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the service and 
commitment of Emily S. Pettigrew, an honorable soldier who


has shown dedication and professionalism in her efforts to free and 
secure Iraq.

Army PFC Emily S. Pettigrew has been awarded the Army Commendation 
Medal for her continuing support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. This Medal 
of Honor is awarded to those in the Army who have distinguished 
themselves through exemplary service and meritorious achievement. 
Important objectives of the mission include, but are not limited to, 
peacekeeping, security, support, force protection and acquiescence 
throughout the strenuous transition process of the Iraqi Government.

Emily Pettigrew is the daughter of Richard and Dottie Pettigrew, 
residents of Country Hill, Keller, Texas, in the heart of my 
congressional district. As a soldier in Iraq, Army PFC Emily S. 
Pettigrew serves as a member of the Fires Brigade, 4th Infantry 
Division stationed at Camp Liberty. While in Iraq, the 4th Infantry 
Division from Fort Hood advances operating bases and performs duties at 
numerous camps. Combat missions assigned to the Fires Brigade have been 
completed successfully on account of the soldiers' devotion, altruism, 
and commitment to our country.

It is with great honor that I stand here today to recognize Army PFC 
Emily S. Pettigrew as a truly generous and outstanding individual, not 
only in the eyes of her family and friends in Keller, Texas, but also 
in the heart of this nation. I am proud to represent her and her 
family.
