---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `cd358d29f1dd8fbf20d116f3b71a4b0e`
`Mr. PENCE — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished ranking member for 
yielding. I rise today in support of the military funding in H.R. 2346, 
the fiscal year 2009 war supplemental appropriations bill, which will 
provide nearly $85 billion to support our men and women serving in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, those that every day make the sacrifices necessary to 
ensure our freedom and that of our posterity.

Overall this legislation does reflect a bipartisan effort to provide 
necessary war funding and essential support for our men and women in 
uniform. I am particularly pleased that it does so without arbitrary 
benchmarks and timetables for withdrawal that had been so much the 
debate of war supplementals in recent years in this Congress. I'm also 
pleased that none of the funding requested by the administration 
related to Guantanamo Bay has been included.

And I take this opportunity to commend the distinguished chairman of 
this committee for his judgment and discretion in leaving out any 
funding for the purpose of closing Guantanamo Bay. President Obama was 
simply wrong to announce plans to close Guantanamo Bay without any plan 
for what to do with the dangerous terrorist detainees who remain there 
to this day. The American people deserve to know that this Congress and 
this government are putting their safety and their interests above 
world opinion in decisions about terrorist detainees. And this 
legislation, in failing to provide any funding for closing Guantanamo 
Bay, puts the interests and the security of the American people first.

I do regret that the amendment authored by the gentleman from 
Virginia who just spoke, Mr. Wolf, was not included in this 
legislation, an amendment that would have prohibited the transfer of 
any terrorist detainee within the next calendar year. And I hope for 
additional language in the conference report.

Now, while I support this war funding bill, let me say on the floor 
of this Congress, I believe a war supplemental bill ought to be about 
war funding and war funding alone. It should not include the literally 
billions of dollars in nondefense-related spending.

Mr. Speaker, I don't have any particular objection to Congress 
considering and debating spending money on international food 
assistance or the State Department or the staff at the NSC or wildfire 
or avian flu or police radios. But what are they doing in a war 
supplemental bill? At a time when Washington D.C. appears to most 
Americans to be a gusher of red ink, runaway Federal spending, stimulus 
bills, omnibus bills, and this Congress passed a budget that will 
double our national debt in 5 years and triple it in 10, we can't even 
seem to bring a war supplemental bill that just funds the needs of our 
soldiers in harm's way. I believe we can do better.

I will support this bill because I support our troops. But I will 
continue to call for this Congress to do a service to those heroes and 
future generations by practicing fiscal discipline.