# HONORING THE 28TH INFANTRY DIVISION FOR SERVING AND PROTECTING THE  UNITED STATES
## `cd38cf72686a1d90ad6f34f5b84b5b1c`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 15 September 2008`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Concurrent Resolution 
390, honoring the 28th Infantry Division. I join my colleagues in 
recognition of the brave men and women who have answered the call of 
duty and contributed in so many ways to our Nation's safety and 
security.

The history of the 28th Infantry Division is truly remarkable and a 
testament to the dedication and sacrifice of those who have served in 
the division. Officially established way back in 1879, the 28th 
Infantry Division is one of the oldest divisions in the Army. Its roots 
trace back to the Revolutionary War era to units in Benjamin Franklin's 
battalion of Associators in Philadelphia, as well as General George 
Washington's Continental Army.

In World War I, the 28th Infantry Division fought in six major 
campaigns: Champagne, Champagne-Marne, Oise-Marne, Lorraine, and Meuse-
Argonne. They paid greatly for their efforts, losing over 14,000 men. 
Recognizing its tough and relentless fighting prowess,


General of the Armies John J. Pershing labeled the 28th Infantry 
Division the Iron Division.

During the Second World War, the division fought some of the fiercest 
battles in the European theater. Perhaps most notably during the Battle 
of the Bulge, the 28th Infantry Division held its ground against 
overwhelming German forces until Allied reinforcements arrived. Their 
sacrifice will never be forgotten, and the importance of their victory 
as a turning point in World War II remains etched in the history of 
this division.

Today, the 28th Infantry Division is an active National Guard 
division, with armories in towns and cities across the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania. Soldiers of the 28th Infantry Division have served and 
are currently serving abroad in Iraq and Afghanistan, and were also 
recently deployed in Bosnia and Kosovo as part of the NATO peacekeeping 
missions. Since September 11, over 10,000 soldiers of the division have 
deployed overseas.

The men and women of the 28th Infantry Division serve their community 
selflessly while balancing full-time careers and families. Through the 
years, their names and faces have changed, but the commitment and the 
dedication with which they serve our Nation remains the hallmark of the 
28th Infantry Division.

So I am very proud to join my colleagues in honoring these men and 
women, past and present, and to express my sincere gratitude for their 
sacrifice to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the Nation. And I 
urge my colleagues to vote for the adoption of this resolution that 
recognizes our citizen soldiers.

I reserve the balance of my time.