# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `cd3a7db00e4c67154675f891b780349c`
`Mr. MURTHA — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. MURTHA. Mr. Speaker, it's not working. This policy is not 
working. That's why we want to change direction. I mean, it is one 
thing to stand here and rhetorically say it's working, say there's 
progress to make statements. Because the White House says it? Because 
the Pentagon says it?

Let me tell you, the Pentagon wrote and said, ''Further, the lack of 
timely supplemental funds has limited the Department's ability to 
properly contract for the reconstitution of equipment for both the 
active and reserve forces.''

We put extra money in the budget, $17 billion last year. There 
wouldn't have been any money in the budget to reset. We have no 
strategic reserve. Our National Guard has only 40 percent of the 
equipment they need. They can't respond to a national disaster. As a 
matter of fact, the National Guard in this country couldn't be deployed 
overseas. The active duty American Armed Forces could not be deployed 
overseas because we have no strategic reserve.

This war has been mishandled. We need accountability. We had a 
hearing on contracting today, and I have been studying this 
contracting. Some of the accusations are that the contractors, there's 
126,000 contractors in Iraq. We have approximately 140,000 troops there 
and 126,000 contractors. Now, imagine this. Some of them are making or 
being paid $600 a day, the contractors, and no accountability. It took 
us 2 weeks to find out who those contractors were, what they were 
doing. We still haven't gotten the details of what they're doing or who 
they are. This is unacceptable.

I saw in the book about Blackwater. It said in this book that 
Ambassador Bremer had 26 Praetorian Guards and those Praetorian Guards 
made $600 a day. Now, you can imagine them pushing through an area 
where the Iraqis lived, with their sunglasses on, you know, those 
little sunglasses that wrap around your eyes, with their khaki uniforms 
with their AK-47s or whatever weapons they carry. That does not make 
friends.

When I went to Iraq the first time, you could drive around anyplace 
in the city. Today, you can't drive anyplace. Matter of fact, they fly 
you from the airport to the Green Zone.

We are occupying Saddam Hussein's palaces. We are in the very area 
where Saddam Hussein occupied and there's no accountability.

We need to redeploy to stabilize this situation. We need to get our 
troops out of the killing zone. We have lost more people in the last 4 
months than we lost any other 4 months in the entire war.

Now, let me tell you what you're voting against if you vote against 
this bill.

Well, first of all, let me tell you why I say it's not working. Oil 
production, below pre-war level; oil exports, below pre-war level; 
electricity production, below pre-war level. Hours of electricity in 
Baghdad, they had to shut down the Parliament the other day because 
they didn't have enough electricity. The microphones wouldn't work, and 
they had no air conditioning inside; and, of course, they have air 
conditioning in the Green Zone. Potable water, people with potable 
water, below pre-war level; unemployment rate between 25 and 40 
percent; inflation rate in Iraq, 50 percent.

Now, here's what you're voting if you vote against this bill. There's 
$95.5 billion for the troops. There's $12.3 billion for military 
personnel pay and benefits program. $1.15 billion to cover the full 
cost of housing allowances, something that was left out last year.

We are adding $2 billion to address the training and equipping 
shortfalls in the forces not deployed. We actually have $4 billion more 
in this bill than was asked for.

We have $2 billion dedicated to the strategic reserve readiness fund. 
We recommend adding $1 billion for Afghanistan, where the real war 
should be fought.

We have $25.6 billion in this bill, and if you vote against it, 
you're voting against $25.6 billion purchases to increase the 
President's request by $800 million. That's the acquisition. The 
proposal allocates $3 billion. Let me tell you, the Pentagon asked for 
$1.3 billion. We added $1.2 billion for MRAPs. What are MRAPs? MRAPs 
are the V-shaped vehicles that resist IEDs.

Now, some of your children have been there. Some of your sons and 
daughters have been there. This the Pentagon says is their most 
important equipment, and we added twice as much money as they asked for 
in the budget, and if you vote against this, you are voting against 
that very equipment.

We passed legislation that fully funded everything at $4 billion more 
and the President vetoed it. He should have signed that bill.

For the Army procurement accounts, we approved a total of $15.8 
billion, more for Humvees, more for Strykers. Somebody mentioned 
Strykers. Let me tell you something, if it hadn't been for the 
Subcommittee on Defense, there wouldn't have been any Strykers for the 
Army because they wanted them, but they weren't willing to ask for the 
money.

The defense health programs, somebody mentioned Walter Reed. All of 
us have been to Walter Reed. All of us have seen the young people who 
have been shattered by this war. All of us have seen the people who go 
to Walter Reed and are taken care of so well. None of us knew about 
Building 18, but we put money in the budget for three or four years in 
a row, and it was mishandled. It didn't go to fixing up the places that 
should have been fixed up.

I just went out there a week ago, and I met with the doctors. The 
doctors


said we don't have enough doctors. They said we don't have enough 
nurses, we don't have enough administrative people, at Walter Reed 
today. Why? Because they can't afford to pay them as much as they would 
on the outside. We put $2.1 billion above the budget request for Walter 
Reed.

$450 million for post-traumatic stress. Of all the other injuries 
that are suffered in Iraq, this is going to be the most damaging, the 
things that people will have to live with the most. I have seen young 
people that came back from Iraq that are having a hard time adjusting, 
and they were not in the heaviest contact. The psychologists that 
appeared before the committee said to me, 3 months in this situation is 
a long time, 3 months they start getting post-traumatic stress. 
Predictions are we will have 65,000 Americans, not Iraqis, Americans 
that are going to have post-traumatic stress.

You wonder why we want to bring this to an end? We want to change the 
direction? You wonder why we want to convince the President that it's 
not working? Why we have to have a diplomatic surge instead of a 
military surge?

We put $450 million in for brain damage to see if we can't find ways 
to help the people with brains that have been damaged. If you vote 
against this, you're voting against that.

Amputee care, $62 million for amputee care; $12 million for care 
givers. The care givers at Walter Reed, at Landstuhl are suffering 
because they see this all the time. They see these young people coming 
in, and they are shattered.

Let me tell you this, finally. I went down to Fort Hood, Fort Bragg, 
Fort Stewart; and I saw at those bases these families who inspire me, 
these families who I can't say enough about them. And they gathered 
around me and we talked about their problems. It had just been 
announced they are going to extend the troops for 15 months. Now, 
Secretary Gates made the right decision because he wasn't going to 
leave them at home. Because of what we have done here in the Congress, 
he is now leaving people at home for at least a year, and let me tell 
you that's essential for these people who have to go back.

Some of these troops in the 82nd Airborne will be deployed for the 
fourth and the fifth time. They're individuals. They're people. They're 
people suffering from the horrendous impact of this war, and I ask you 
to vote for this because we want to hold this President accountable for 
this war, hold him accountable and convince him we need compromises.