# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `cd3efa974c33e6b78b73cc97fd871814`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, I said earlier this year 
that when the President does what we think is the right thing for the 
American people, that he will have no stronger allies than House 
Republicans. We believe that the President has a responsible strategy 
in Iraq and in Afghanistan, and we have in fact supported him.

When this troop funding bill left the House, it left with a broad 
bipartisan majority. And as this bill is now considered, after a 
conference with the Senate, there are a couple of very troubling parts 
of this bill.

First and foremost, the addition of a $108 billion line of credit for 
the International Monetary Fund I think is unnecessary in this bill. 
And it's unnecessary because to ask our troops to carry money for a 
global bailout, frankly, I think is unfair. There is only about $80 
billion in this bill for our troops, and here we're asking them to 
spend nearly $30 billion more to carry this global bailout.

Now, I've got to tell you, we may have enough money in the United 
States to solve our economic problems, but I'll guarantee you we don't 
have enough money to solve the world's economic problems. And when you 
think about the fact that we don't have $108 billion to loan to the 
IMF, so what's going to happen here? The United States is going to go 
to China, we're going to borrow $108 billion, we're going to give it to 
the IMF, and they're going to give it to countries, most of whom don't 
like us very much.

Now, I would suspect that most of my constituents would say, This is 
a bad deal, and, Boehner, we expect you to vote ''no.'' And trust me, I 
am going to vote ''no.'' But the fact is, it doesn't belong in this 
bill. That issue should be debated on its own and should be voted up or 
down on its own.

The second issue is that the Senate included language in their bill 
that would have protected these photos of detainees from being 
released. General Petraeus, General Odierno, and others, have made it 
clear that the release of these photos will endanger our troops. I 
believe it will also cripple the ability of our intelligence officials 
to do their job. And yet while it was supported in this House last week 
with another broad bipartisan vote, the language isn't in the bill; 
it's been taken out at the demands of the fringe left. And so I would 
suggest to my colleagues that this is not a bill that I can support.

I'm going to do everything I can to help our troops. They're doing a 
marvelous job on our behalf in helping to keep Americans safe. But to 
load this bill up with this kind of political gamesmanship is not what 
the American people expect of their Congress.

So I would ask my colleagues to stand up and say ''no'' to this bill. 
Let's bring back the broad bipartisan majority that passed the first 
bill and take care of our troops the right way. This is not the answer, 
though.