---
---

# HONORING DR. JAMES C. ALLEN
## `cd434fc537f945af49965df7f477cbc3`
`Ms. BALDWIN — 28 May 2010`

---


Ms. BALDWIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and career 
of Dr. James C. Allen of Madison, Wisconsin. There is no more 
appropriate time than now, as we approach Memorial Day, to recognize 
Dr. Allen's distinguished service to our country both as a veteran of 
war and an advocate for his fellow servicemembers. His tireless work as 
an ophthalmologist extends far beyond direct clinical care to touch the 
lives of countless veterans across our great Nation.

Dr. Allen began his service to our country during the Korean war. 
After returning from duty, he started practicing ophthalmology at the 
William S. Middleton Memorial VA Hospital in Madison. During his 35 
year career at the VA Hospital, Dr. Allen discovered a significant 
problem with the VA compensation structure.



Although veterans could receive compensation for service-connected 
loss of sight in one eye, they were not eligible for increased 
assistance if subsequent loss of sight occurred in the second eye until 
complete blindness set in. A service member himself, Dr. Allen 
recognized the tremendous sacrifices our veterans make and knew that 
they should not be forced to struggle with related optical issues 
without any additional assistance and care. For 7 years, Dr. Allen 
worked with me and Donald May of Lodi, Wisconsin to craft long overdue 
legislation that would ensure the correction of this inadequacy.

In 2007, Congress unanimously passed and the President signed H.R. 
797, the Dr. James C. Allen Veteran Vision Equity Act, allowing 
disabled veterans to receive greater compensation if they begin to lose 
sight in the second eye, regardless of whether or not that loss of 
sight is service-connected. The Dr. James C. Allen Veteran Vision 
Equity Act will directly impact the lives of those who sacrificed to 
defend our freedom. Over 13,000 veterans have been blinded in conflict 
since World War II, including veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan who are 
incurring eye wounds at the highest rate of a major conflict since 
World War I.

Over the years, Dr. Allen has received countless awards and honors, 
including the 2008 Wisconsin Medical Society Physician Citizen of the 
Year Award and the Wisconsin Board of Veterans Affairs Veteran Lifetime 
Achievement Award. However, no amount of accolades could accurately 
reflect how invaluable his work has been and will continue to be to our 
most courageous citizens. The American spirit embodies the idea that 
one thoughtful, committed citizen possesses the ability to create 
meaningful change and Dr. Allen exemplifies this spirit. I join the 
greater Madison community and veterans everywhere in honoring Dr. Allen 
for his unwavering commitment and dedication.
