# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `cd45f9cd48feb2967da38c3ea55cdc38`
`Mr. CONYERS — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the first 
amendment before us, and in strong opposition to the second.

It is unfortunate that we have come to this point today. This House 
has already passed two supplemental war funding bills that would set in 
motion the change of course in Iraq that the American people have 
demanded of us. The first was vetoed by the President; the second 
failed in the Senate. Last week, Democratic leaders met with the 
President and offered to drop all domestic items in the supplemental if 
the administration would accept meaningful benchmarks and timelines for 
ending our involvement in that civil war. He refused.

We are now left with the Senate-passed plan, which gives the 
President the funds he requested, accompanied by a much weaker set of 
benchmarks than those passed by the House. Some have cited the 
inclusion of these benchmarks as a step toward ending 6 years of 
Congressional blank checks for the President's war. While these 
benchmarks may be a step in the right direction, they are too small of 
a step. I will vote against the second amendment we are considering 
today.

However, I will support amendment No. 1 to the Senate amendment to 
H.R. 2206. This measure will provide emergency funding to address 
critical needs here at home. It includes additional funding for the 
State Children's Health Insurance Program to prevent many thousands of 
poor children and some of their parents from losing health coverage, as 
well as increased spending for Gulf Coast hurricane recovery. It also 
provides more funding for our veterans' health needs, with additional 
funding set aside specifically to address traumatic brain injury, one 
of the most common and devastating injuries our soldiers are suffering 
in Iraq. The amendment also codifies the raise in the minimum wage that 
the House originally passed during the First 100 Hours of the 110th 
Congress. The value of the minimum wage is at its lowest level in more 
than 30 years, and raising it will provide much-needed help to many of 
America's financially-strapped working families.

I find it unconscionable that the President and some Congressional 
Republicans have derided these provisions as ''pork.'' Each of these 
issues is an emergency in its own right and rises to the level of 
inclusion in this emergency spending bill. I am proud to support them.

In September, as these funds expire, the Congress will once again 
have to decide what course of action to take on this war. The rule we 
passed for consideration of this bill requires that before we vote on 
another supplemental bill in the fall, we must vote on whether the 
funds appropriated therein be limited to the safe redeployment of our 
troops on a responsible timetable. It is my hope that when these votes 
occur in September, many more of my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle will have come to their senses and realized that the civil war in 
Iraq cannot be ended by further American military involvement. I am 
confident that if the American people continue to voice their strong 
opposition to the President's failed policy in Iraq, enough Republicans 
will join with us to override future vetoes and end this misbegotten 
war.