---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `cd50bff7b4949f323dce7e3a759f807c`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I would like to add my voice to what 
Senator Kyl has echoed. There are two votes today--I hope sometime 
today--and one is about whether we should adopt a resolution 
designating the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist 
organization. I think that would be a pretty easy vote for most of us, 
given the evidence out there about their involvement in international 
terrorism, particularly the Quds Force, which is sort of a subsidiary, 
regarding our troop presence in Iraq.

The question, I guess, we need to ask ourselves is: Why would the 
Iranian Government, through the Quds Force and other organizations, be 
sponsoring militia groups that are trying to kill Americans in Iraq?

There is a purpose for everything. I know why we are there. From my 
point of view, we are there to try to stabilize a country in a post-
Saddam Hussein era that would allow the three groups to live tolerantly 
together and be an ally in the war on terror, be a place to check Iran, 
and deny al-Qaida a safe haven, and it could be a model for future 
Mideast expansion of representative government and the democratic 
process.



What would Iran be up to? My belief is the reason the Iranian regime 
is so hellbent on making sure the Iraqi experiment in tolerance fails 
in representative government--from a theocracy point of view, from the 
Iranian Government's point of view, the biggest nightmare for them 
would be a representative government in Iraq on their border. So they 
are not going to give that to the Iraqi people without a fight. They 
certainly are not going to give it to us without a fight.

We need to realize we are in a proxy war with Iran over the outcome 
of Iraq. For those who have determined this is a civil war only in 
Iraq, that the outcome is about who runs Iraq, I think you 
misunderstand the role Iran is playing. Iran is trying to shape Iraq in 
a way not to be a threat to the theocracy in Iran. They are trying to 
shape Iraq in a way that would be detrimental to our long-term national 
security interests. They are trying to be able to say to the world they 
stood up to America and drove us out. They are trying to expand their 
influence by defeating us in Iraq and in trying to destabilize their 
representative form of government, which would, again, be a nightmare.

So this resolution designating the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a 
terrorist organization is well founded based on the evidence that is 
being gathered against this organization. There is more to come. I have 
had a chance to be over in Iraq a couple times now looking at some 
cases involving Iranian involvement with the killing and kidnapping of 
American soldiers. So there is more evidence to come about Iran's 
involvement in trying to kill Americans and destabilize this 
representative government in Iraq.

Now, the second resolution is: What role should we play in dictating 
the outcome of this representative experiment in government in Iraq? I 
have great respect for Senator Biden. I think it is ill advised for us 
in the Senate to be adopting a resolution basically dictating or trying 
to give our sense of what should happen in Iraq because that destroys 
the whole underpinning of what we are trying to do.

The idea that the three groups can live separate and apart from each 
other without regional consequences is unfounded. The Shias, who wish a 
theocracy for Iraq, could never achieve that goal without pushback from 
their Sunni Arab neighbors. The Kurds, who wish to have an independent 
Kurdish state in the north, are going to run right into the teeth of 
Turkey. The Sunnis, who wish for the good old days of Saddam where they 
ran the country--that is never going to happen. The region is not going 
to allow that to happen.

So at the end of the day, I believe the effort to reconcile Iraq in 
central Baghdad will be successful not by a sense-of-the-Senate 
resolution but by a desire and sense of the people of Iraq. The one 
thing I have learned from my last visit is that local reconciliation in 
Iraq is proliferating because people are very much tired of the 
killing. They are war weary. There is a suicide bomber wave going on 
right now against reconciliation efforts in Diyala Province, where 21 
people were killed who were meeting to reconcile that province.

So al-Qaida is alive and well in Iraq. They are greatly diminished, 
but they show up where reconciliation is being discussed. The reason 
they show up where reconciliation is being discussed is because their 
big nightmare is to have Iraq come together and a woman to have a say 
about her children and Sunnis and Shias and Kurds living in peace and 
rejecting their extremist view of the Koran.

So the players in Iran and al-Qaida are very much pushing back hard. 
The question for this country is, Will we stand up to them and push 
back equally hard and stand by the moderate forces in Iraq, imperfect 
as they may be?

So I hope one amendment is adopted, designating the Iranian 
Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organization. I hope the other 
amendment, trying to give our sense of what to do in Iraq from the 
Senate's point of view, fails and we allow the Iraqi people to work out 
their problems with our help but insist they get on with it.

So with that, I yield the floor.