# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `cd541f777179792e78bbb328020ec70b`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Chairman, this week, or just today, rather, it was 
found out, we discovered and it was reported, that the United States is 
running a $176 billion deficit in February alone. Earlier this week, we 
also found out that the Iraqis have a surplus of over $50 billion.

We also know that the American taxpayers have paid for 20 Iraqi 
hospitals to be refurbished and 80 health clinics to have been built 
and 60 more planned. And the Republican budget, in the area of health 
care, cuts $370 billion from Medicare and Medicaid.

The Iraqis, due to the American taxpayers, will get 6,700 schools 
rehabbed. The Republican budget eliminates the Pell Grant increases 
that Congress proposed this year.

We're also increasing our funding and training of the Iraqi teachers. 
The Republicans plan to reduce the military retirement and health care 
benefits by $1.3 billion. And while Iraq is running a surplus and not 
spending their resources on improving their country, the entire deficit 
over the entire period of time that the Republican budget has is a 
little over $700 billion.

President Kennedy once said, ''To govern is to choose,'' and my 
friends on the other side have made some choices. While the Iraqis run 
a surplus, they've made sure that America runs a deficit. While Iraq 
and American taxpayers are asked to make sure that we rebuild schools 
and hospitals in Iraq, here in the United States their budget cuts 
those very investments.

In fact, the Democratic budget turns this ship around of inheriting 
$3.8 trillion in new debt that has accumulated over the last 6 years 
and ensures that we invest in American schools, in American hospitals, 
in American health clinics, and in American teachers. And it ensures, 
also, that we have a middle class tax cut. So, it makes sure that, 
while we are doing what we are supposed to do in Iraq, we don't do


it at the expense of what we need to do here at home. We have invested 
in Iraq, and our budget ensures that we invest in America.