---
---

# FIND WAYS TO COME TOGETHER ON IRAQ
## `cd5f28d6238dc11d4f06cbbc096e6171`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. I thank the gentleman, and I appreciate his raising this 
issue of one for one, because I think it's a perfect example of Members 
of this body having different ideas that may make sense, trying to 
offer those ideas in the spirit of some compromise and reasonableness. 
Let's go into the basis of that one for one and explore it as a 
possible, not a way out, because Iraq is certainly complex and 
complicated, but at least one measure of improvement.

The President has said that, in the past, and has stated this 
publicly, that for every Iraqi that stands up, an American will come 
home or be redeployed. And he has said that on several occasions. On 
other occasions, we've heard that there are between 250,000 and 300,000 
Iraqis that have been stood up. Well, the gentleman can help me do the 
math. If in fact there are between 250,000 and 300,000 Iraqis that have 
been stood up and if for every one that stands up an American is going 
to redeploy, how come 250,000 to 300,000 have not redeployed?



The answer is in how you define ''training'' and what it means to say 
''stand up.'' In fact, go you take a look at the textbook definition of 
''training'' in military terms, combat proficiency is what is 
important, and there are different levels of combat proficiency. If you 
are trained at level one combat proficiency, you are capable of 
fighting and winning convincingly anywhere in the world and you don't 
need any U.S. support. If you are trained at level two combat 
proficiency, you can fight and win almost anywhere in the world, but 
you need some measure of U.S. support, maybe some intel, maybe some 
reconnaissance assistance, maybe some logistics support. So if you take 
a look at the numbers of Iraqi forces that are actually trained at 
level one or level two combat proficiency, you will find that it is not 
250,000 to 300,000 but far less. And the numbers ought not be repeated 
in a public forum, but far less than 250,000 to 300,000.

So the idea that we came up with was why don't we ask the President 
to report to the Congress on a monthly basis how many Iraqis have 
actually been trained at level one or level two combat proficiency, 
certify that to the Congress, and then we will redeploy an equivalent 
amount. Now, I am not suggesting that we withdraw that number 
necessarily. We might redeploy them to the borders so we can prevent 
Iran and Syria from inflaming the situation in Iraq.

The point is, Congressman Bishop, that I don't claim to have all the 
answers and I know that this isn't the perfect answer, but it is an 
idea that we have tried to set forward.