# IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST
## `cd64c57db5cb03f046e887c6a2194e74`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, as I said a number of times in the 
past, it remains a tremendous honor to step here on the floor of the 
United States House of Representatives and address you about how this 
dialogue that we have across America is a great big national 
conversation, 300 million people, many of them talking about the very 
subject matter that my colleagues in the previous hour have discussed, 
and that being the issue of the global war on terror.

Particularly, because of the hearing today, the joint hearing between 
the Armed Services Committee, and it used to be the International 
Relations Committee, and now it's the Foreign Affairs Committee, many 
of our colleagues in the room of the 435 Members of Congress, over 100 
in the room and many others were watching television in offices and in 
gatherings around this Hill. There was a national conversation going on 
and taking place here.

As we move forward with our discussion, one of the things that 
happens is, as talking members of the 300 million people of America 
carry on their conversation, a consensus forms. As a consensus forms, 
it works that the constituents across the country call up and write 
letters and send e-mails to and stop in and see their Members of 
Congress and their staff.

As that goes on, if the American people are informed, if they are 
informed honestly and objectively, if they can get there, they can get 
their eyes and their hands and their ears on the facts, the American 
people often come to an appropriate and proper conclusion.

But it happens to be a fact that nearly every week that we have been 
in session in this 110th Congress, now into September, having gaveled 
in here in January, nearly every week, there has been at least one bill 
on the floor, that was a bill, I believe, sought to undermine our 
efforts in this global war on terror.

Except for last week, there wasn't one. Yet, the commitment that was 
made on the part of the request to Congress, and on the part of our 
military and the President, was to deliver a report here to Congress by 
September 15, on or before September 15, that would be an objective 
update on the operations in Iraq, which I will stipulate again is the 
most centralized, the most contested battleground in this global war on 
terror.



We all knew this report was coming, and today we received that 
report. That report was delivered here to Congress in written form and 
verbally by General Petraeus and by Ambassador Ryan Crocker.

Well, it's interesting that when the date of this report became 
something that was published and people were aware of, that's when the 
debate began.

We started to see an intensity of the different amendments and the 
resolutions that came before Congress. There are no resolution to 
unfund the war and call our troops home, but resolutions to try to do 
that without having to admit that that was the effort. As each one of 
those resolutions came up, by my view, each one of them one way or 
another failed with the American people. The argument was continuing. 
The debate was continuing.

The people that were invested in, let me say, cut-and-run policy and 
tactics in Iraq, those people thought that they were going to win this 
argument with the American people, before General Petraeus brought his 
report before Congress. That's why those resolutions came to this floor 
every week, in my view, and that's why the media was delivered, message 
after message, that there was a failed effort in Iraq.

That's also why I and many of my colleagues went to Iraq during that 
period of time. I made my fifth trip over there on the last weekend of 
July with a number of my colleagues in codel Burgess. On that fifth 
trip, it's hard to say, even when you go back to the same place, what 
was different. Because you will see sometimes different people, and you 
get a bit different report.

But one thing you do is get briefings, internal briefings, classified 
briefings, from our top officers that we have and compare the 
information that comes from General Petraeus and General Odierno and 
Ambassador Crocker and Admiral Fallon. Those people that are at the 
front of this that are in the lead that are calling the shots from the 
highest levels, all the way down through the ranks, when you walk into 
a mess hall and simply say is there anyone here from Iowa, pretty soon 
you have a table full, know their hometowns and know some of the people 
that they are related to and know that there is an instant contact 
there. We compare notes Iowan-to-Iowan and then compare those notes 
with the briefings that we receive from our top officers.

Close the door and have an intense, classified discussion with 
General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker, then come back here to this 
Congress and listen to the debate and watch the effort here on the 
other side of the aisle, the effort that I believe was invested in 
defeat. I will say even a significant number are still invested in 
defeat.

But, yet, they thought they could win the debate and convince the 
American people that the cause was lost in Iraq. They thought they 
could win the debate before General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker 
delivered their report to this Congress that it would be a moot point. 
Whatever it was that General Petraeus might offer today, they wanted to 
have the American people convinced. A majority number of Members of 
Congress were convinced that it was a lost and failed effort in Iraq.

Well, enough information came out from that part of the world; enough 
Members went over and saw for themselves. Enough Members like myself 
went into al Anbar province that, according to General Petraeus today, 
was politically lost a year ago. It was a hopeless case a year ago.

As I was there the last of July, every single tribal area in al Anbar 
province, and I would remind the body, that that is one-third, Anbar 
province is one third of the geographical area of Iraq. It represented 
over half the deaths and violence of Iraq. It was the center of al 
Qaeda in Iraq. Ramadi was the center of death for the country.

Still, every single tribal area in the entire province of that one-
third of Iraq was, a year ago, controlled by al Qaeda. Hamas was 
preaching an anti-U.S., anti-coalition, anti-Iraqi defense force 
message.

But as I match the maps, as the tribal zones change and the sheikhs, 
the tribal leaders, got together, the they made a commitment to come 
together to kill al Qaeda with coalition forces and with Iraqi defense 
forces. Every single tribal zone, every sheikh in all of al Anbar 
province came over to the coalition side, to the side of freedom, and 
to the side of a free Iraqi people.

When that happened, there was a dramatic sea change in al Anbar 
province. If you looked at the map of the tribal zones, it was already 
a year ago painted red because that was al Qaeda. Today, every tribal 
zone in al Anbar province is green, meaning they are on our side now, 
they are with us. They said they want to come kill al Qaeda with us. 
That was their message.

When you see that kind of briefing, and you hear the briefing that 
came from General Petraeus today, but some of this information came out 
piece by piece, week by week, as there was an effort to undermine our 
effort in Iraq, came to a head today. Those who were invested in defeat 
had to make a case today that there was something weak about this 
military effort, something weak about the security effort, that there 
was something disingenuous about the delivery, about the report that 
was delivered today.

What I saw today was truly two highly intelligent people with worlds 
of experience in the Middle East, Ambassador Crocker and General 
Petraeus.

As I saw them with their delivery and their presentation and the 
facts that they laid out carefully, completely, objectively, with 
caution about those parts that aren't going so well, brought out before 
we heard the good news about the parts that are going well, this was a 
stellar report that the American people can take to the bank. We don't 
have all the problems solved in Iraq. There is a ways to go, and maybe 
a long ways to go. It's not going to be easy, but it looks far better 
today than the news media has characterized it to be.

So there is much to be said about this momentous day today, this 
watershed day today, the records that were accumulated from General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker. As I watched my colleagues listen to 
that delivery and ask their questions and probe, I can only reflect 
that the people that came out of this thing with their integrity intact 
were the ones delivering the report. The ones who were their critics 
were silenced in the end. That's the conclusion that I think an 
objective media will be reporting tomorrow.

But at this point, I recognize the gentleman from Tennessee, Mr. Zach 
Wamp.