# CLOSE THE CONTRACTOR FRAUD LOOPHOLE ACT
## `cd65eb3cf2ad8bc1c2494e6707ab2786`
`Mr. WAXMAN — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 5712, the 
Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act. This bill would create a 
mandatory requirement for Federal contractors to disclose violations of 
Federal criminal law or significant overcharges discovered with 
relationship to a Federal contract. It would replace our current system 
of voluntary disclosure.

Moving to mandatory disclosure has been recommended by the Justice 
Department for good reason, the voluntary disclosure system is simply 
not working. In fiscal year 2007, only three contractors participated 
in the Defense Department's voluntary disclosure program.



Congressman Welch introduced this bill after the administration 
exempted contracts performed in Iraq and Afghanistan from a proposal to 
make fraud reporting mandatory. This exemption made no sense. As this 
committee's oversight has shown, fraud and over-billing are widespread 
in Iraq.

The administration testified at a hearing before the Government 
Management Subcommittee that these exemptions were included 
inadvertently, and they said they made a mistake. This is a mistake 
that needs to be corrected, and that's why I commend Congressman Welch 
for pressing this issue and introducing this legislation. If we pass 
this bill, the real winners will be the Federal taxpayers.

Prior to our committee markup on the bill, we worked with Ranking 
Member Davis to address certain concerns he raised with the way the 
bill was originally drafted. And I want to thank Mr. Davis for working 
with us in a constructive manner to ensure passage of this bill.

The bill before us, H.R. 5712, as amended, would preserve 
Representative Welch's original intent while at the same time 
preserving the legitimate role of the regulatory process. The bill 
requires that the Federal Acquisition Regulation be amended within 180 
days to require disclosure of fraud for both domestic and overseas 
contracts, and for commercial item contracts.

I urge Members to support H.R. 5712, as amended. It has been approved 
by a bipartisan vote in our committee, and it ought to be 
overwhelmingly approved in the House as well.