---
---

# FUTURE INVOLVEMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
## `cd750571a7626e12281b6842c958a89b`
`Mr. KAGEN — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Madam Speaker, I rise this evening to begin a bipartisan 
conversation about the future investments of our resources in both 
human and capital resources in the region of Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
Everyone will agree that we must do whatever it takes to protect 
America and keep hostilities from our shores. And over time, I believe 
we'll also come to understand that religious fundamentalism is 
civilization's real enemy, no matter if it is disguised in Muslim, 
Judeo-Christian, Hindu, Sikh or any other religious clothing.

Terrorism is not really the enemy, for violent extremists simply use 
terrorism as a tactic. Overcoming the violent extremists will require 
skilled and talented police work as coordinated between civilized 
nations, not only our mutual military might. And we must hunt, capture 
and prosecute the violent extremists wherever they seek to establish 
themselves, sharing the expense and doing so with our colleagues in our 
mutual nations overseas, our friends, particularly in NATO. Most 
importantly, throughout this process, we must continue to defend 
ourselves within the laws as established by our United States 
Constitution. We're still paying for the poor judgments of the previous 
administration which, in 2003, placed our children in the middle of a 
centuries' old religious civil war in Iraq, when, in fact, our invasion 
of Iraq was not necessary. By continuing to spend millions of our hard-
earned tax dollars over there, we are unable to solve our own problems 
here at home.

The truth about Iraq is this: no weapons of mass destruction were 
present in Iraq, and al Qaeda extremists were not based there before 
President Bush convinced Congress to go to war. And remember this: Iraq 
was not involved in the attacks against America, and did not pose a 
risk to our national security, and it was not a danger to our national 
security at all.

We all have the same goal, to support our troops before, during and 
after they've served in harm's way, as we begin to build a better and 
safer and more secure Nation for all of us. Recent testimony before 
Congress, before the Armed Services Committee in the last several 
weeks, by our military leaders has made it clear: first, that they all 
don't agree on what we should be doing in the region, and secondly, 
that there is no purely military solution in either Iraq or 
Afghanistan, only a political one. We must, therefore, move our troops 
away from Iraq, focusing again upon al Qaeda.

Tonight, here on the House floor we will be discussing our ongoing 
involvement in Afghanistan and Pakistan, which for centuries has been 
the graveyard of invading empires, a place where our Nation's most 
precious resources, our soldiers, are presently engaged in efforts to, 
as President Obama has stated, ''disrupt, dismantle and defeat al Qaeda 
and its safe havens in Pakistan and to prevent their return to Pakistan 
and Afghanistan.''

I'm very grateful that President Obama has taken time to listen, 
taken time as well and trust that he will design a strategy that has as 
its first goal the safe return of all of our troops as soon as 
possible, for there is really no purely military solution to the 
complex global problems that we're all facing. And as history has 
proven time and time again, making war is our worst human failure.

So what are some of the numbers in Afghanistan? Suicides, post-
traumatic stress disorder, a wound that we cannot see, but which our 
soldiers carry with them all their lives, a wound that damages not just 
themselves but their families and their businesses when they come home, 
amputations, burns, shrapnel wounds, fractured spines.

Thirty percent of our returning servicemen have PTSD, post-traumatic 
stress disorder. Seventy thousand of our soldiers have traumatic brain 
injury since 2007. In January of this year through October of this 
year, 1,800 have been wounded in Afghanistan, 1,000 being wounded in 
the last 3 months alone. And for the cause? The cause of helping, in 
part, to support the very fraudulent government, a government that has 
been formed by an election process not witnessed in our country, no 
matter what election you take a look at.

I will quote now from an article:

''You can't build a new political system with old politician accused 
of war crimes,'' said lawmaker, Ramazan Bashardost, who finished third 
in the country's fraud-marred August election. ''You can't have peace 
with warlords in control.''

Rights groups have accused soldiers and police loyal to the warlords 
of kidnapping, extortion, robbery and the rape of women, girls and 
boys. In the countryside, local commanders run their own fiefdoms with 
illegal militias. They intimidate people into paying them taxes, 
extracting bribes, steal their land, and trade drugs. They essentially 
rule with impunity, and no government official, no judge, no policeman 
can stand up to them. This is the Afghanistan world as we know it. This 
is the Afghanistan situation as President Karzai may soon be sworn in 
and give his speech in several hours in Kabul.

Earlier today, there was a newspaper report that is entitled Afghan 
Official Said to Take Bribe for Copper Deal. This is how business is 
being done in Afghanistan. $20 million bribe to a minister who gave a 
contract to a Chinese corporation who was coming in to mine their 
copper. Fraud and bribery are the rule of the day today in Afghanistan, 
where nearly 40 percent of the money that our taxpayers are sending 
into the region is taken down in bribes and plain thievery.

Well, some of the testimony that has been offered by the Armed 
Services Committee was put forward by people that we know and people we 
trust.



Wesley Clark finished his testimony with these words: ''But it is 
important to face the reality of the situation at this point: much has 
already been accomplished: our obligations are limited; there will 
never be a complete and wholly satisfactory solution, and we must focus 
on meeting our own--the United States' and NATO's--security needs. And 
the real security need in the region now is to reduce the continuing 
threat of al Qaeda, reportedly located principally in Pakistan. It is 
their decisive defeat that we must seek.'' These are the counsel and 
opinion of the former NATO commander, Wesley Clark.

There is somebody else that testified, Kimberly Kagan. And she spells 
it with an A-N, so we are not related by marriage or by genealogy. 
Perhaps the most interesting sentence in her publication, which is 
entitled--I want you to read it some day--''Why the Taliban Are Winning 
for Now,'' Kimberly Kagan, Foreign Policy Magazine, August 10, 2009, 
was ''The fact that we have not been doing the right things for the 
past few years in Afghanistan is actually good news at this moment.'' I 
don't know if that is ''Saturday Night Live'' material, but I've got to 
tell you, this is not something we should be sending our troops in to 
when we are doing the wrong thing.

Andrew Krepinevich wrote: ''Simply stated, the military foundation of 
our global dominance is eroding.'' That's his opinion. It's also a 
fact. The empire of the United States, the global reach, may be coming 
to an end.

And the final quote I will offer as we begin our discussions comes 
from Gilles Dorronsoro, who is a visiting scholar with South Asia 
Program, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. And he concludes 
his remarks before the Armed Services Committee with this sentence: 
''The only solution to this problem is a political negotiation and the 
awareness of what is really at stake here: the credibility of NATO as a 
military alliance.''

These are some of the problems that we face today, but this is not a 
new problem. For 2,300 years ago, 1 day after the Battle of Kalinga, in 
265 B.C., where over 100,000 people perished in the lands our Nation 
has sent its own children, trained in war, the then-King of Maurya 
dynasty, Ashoka, recorded his thoughts for our Nation's guidance today.

And Ashoka wrote: ''What have I done? Is this a victory? What is a 
defeat then? This is a victory or a defeat. This is justice or 
injustice. It's gallantry or a rout. Is it a valor to kill innocent 
children and women? I do it to


enwiden the empire or for prosperity or to destroy the other's kingdom 
or splendor? Someone has lost her husband, someone a father, someone a 
child, someone an unborn infant. What is this debris of corpses? Are 
these marks of victory or defeat? Are these vultures, crows, eagles, 
the messengers of death or evil? What have I done? What have I done?''

After he conquered the region of Afghanistan, he transformed his own 
personal philosophies and his kingdoms to promote peace, to promote 
Buddhism and a nonviolent way of solving problems.

I believe there is a better way of doing things in America; and I am 
convinced that by working together, we are going to be able to find it 
and to do that in a very bipartisan way.

I yield to my friend, my colleague, a physician and Congressman, Ron 
Paul of Texas.