---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `cd8485b3f0755f54b75b390b10ee443a`
`Mrs. MILLER of Michigan — 15 February 2007`

---


Mrs. MILLER of Michigan. Madam Speaker, I am proud to be yielded time 
from a true American hero.

If at any time while I am in the Congress and I am asked to vote to 
authorize war, I will ask myself two fundamental questions, two caveats 
to such action. Number one, what are the United States' vital 
interests? How are our vital interests being advanced? Number two, what 
is the mission and how is the mission being defined?

I was not in the Congress when the vote to give the President the 
authority to go to war in Iraq was taken, but as I remember the debate 
during that vote, it was heavily predicated on the fact that we thought 
that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, and the mission 
seemed to be principally defined as finding WMDs. It is clear that he 
had them at one time because he used them on his own people.

However, since we have gone into Iraq, whether it is because they 
have transited the country or they were destroyed, or whatever the 
reason, we have not found them.

Then the mission was defined as toppling the oppressor, the butcher 
of Baghdad, Saddam Hussein. And we have done so. We let the Iraqi 
courts exercise their due diligence in a court of law, and he is dead 
now. Good riddance, and hanging was too good for him.

Then we defined the mission as providing a stable framework that 
would allow the Iraqis to build a democracy because we can all agree 
that having a democracy in an Arab country in the Middle East would be 
optimal for the entire world. They have had their elections. They have 
adopted a Constitution, and they have elected leadership that is in 
place.

Again, I ask about the United States' vital interests and how we are 
defining the mission because, Madam Speaker, the mission needs to be 
understood. It is important that those of us in Congress can understand 
it, of course. It is important that the American people can understand 
it. But most importantly, the brave men and women who wear the uniform 
and are in theater risking their lives and their limbs need to be able 
to understand the mission.

President Bush has said that the mission is to achieve stability in 
Iraq, to train the Iraqi forces so that they will be able to stand up 
so that we will be able to stand down. He says that the so-called surge 
is a necessary thing to do.

As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I have listened to the 
testimony from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretary of Defense as 
well, about how this surge will work, and in my mind, a surge is a 
quick, overwhelming show of force. However, as it has been explained to 
me, this action will have two of a total of five brigades begin to 
deploy to Baghdad and the Anbar province and then gradually the other 
three brigades will be deployed as an assessment can be made on how the 
first two are doing.

I will note that I have read that General Schoomaker, Army Chief of 
Staff, has said in a closed door hearing that he thought the surge had 
a 50-50 chance of success.

Madam Speaker, our troops have done everything that we have asked 
them to do and more, and you cannot blame America for the Iraqis' 
failure to stop killing one another in a religious frenzy.

I am a product of the Vietnam era. My husband was an Air Force pilot 
in Vietnam. My county has the largest chapter of Vietnam veterans in 
the entire Nation, and although I have resisted making any analogy from 
Iraq to Vietnam, I will make this one personal observation.

From the very beginning of the Iraq conflict, we should have allowed 
our troops to go in and use overwhelming force; but we were told, no, 
that we had enough. Those that suggested otherwise were dismissed, and 
so they micromanaged from the White House, and now I think they are 
doing the same with this surge. Our troops can win, but they are being 
held back. They are being micromanaged by our politicians. We are not 
letting them win, and this is the lesson that I learned from Vietnam.

In Vietnam, we used a graduated response. We held back our troops. We 
did not use overwhelming force, and after many died, we left the field 
and I cannot believe in my lifetime that once again we are repeating 
this mistake.

I support the troops and I support victory. I recognize how 
incredibly complex this situation is. I recognize that having our 
troops leave will probably result in a loss of human life that will be 
horrifying. I recognize that leaving will probably encourage the 
neighbors to move in to protect their own interests, and I recognize 
that the war on terror will follow us if we leave.

Yet, recognizing all of this, since the Iraqis will, for whatever 
reason, not stand up to ensure their own freedom, how can we ask 
Americans and for how long to continue to do so for them? Either use 
overwhelming force to win, or get out and do not continue to ask our 
troops to fight with one hand behind their backs.

Mistakes have been made, as they always are in war; but another 
lesson that I learned from Vietnam is that the only thing worse than 
micromanaging a war from the White House is micromanaging it from here 
in Congress. And this is a time when every Member in this House needs 
to dig down deep and vote their conscience, knowing that sending the 
right message to the administration has the very real consequence of 
sending the wrong message to the troops who so bravely and 
professionally fight for freedom and liberty and democracy.

Vote ''no'' on this resolution.