---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `cd8edf727bd92f03eaa7dd341d074fbd`
`Mr. HOLT â€” 13 July 2009`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of H.R. 3081, the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010. In addition to providing for 
operations at the State Department and the U.S. Agency for 
International Development, the bill includes important funding for 
broader diplomatic and development efforts around the world. It 
provides needed assistance for Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq; 
fulfills the U.S. commitment to assist the security of our ally Israel; 
and maintains vital support for peacekeeping missions in places like 
Darfur, Haiti, Lebanon, and Somalia.

I applaud the amendment by Chairwoman Lowey to restrict military 
assistance to the Government of Sri Lanka. As the process of rebuilding 
from that nation's long conflict begins, the United States must ensure 
that the Sri Lankan Government protects the rights of all its citizens 
and allows humanitarian assistance to reach all those in need.

Other important provisions in H.R. 3081 will advance global health, 
including the fights against HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis. The 
bill makes available $1 billion each for programs that will improve 
access to basic education worldwide and provide for global food 
security and agricultural development. I am pleased that H.R. 3081 
provides increased funding to expand the Peace Corps; enhance 
educational and cultural exchanges; and strengthen microfinance 
programs that help the world's poorest people, especially women, lift 
themselves out of poverty.

This is a good bill that will help our Nation accomplish many 
important tasks. However, there is one area that I believe deserves 
greater attention, and that role is that science should play in 
American diplomacy and foreign aid. The fundamental role of science and 
technology in international development has long been recognized, but 
over time we have dismantled our staffing and support structure in this 
area. We must refurbish the science and technology workforce at USAID 
so that we can effectively address global challenges like health, 
poverty, environmental hazards, and food security. U.S. scientists, 
working alongside their foreign counterparts, can help other countries 
build the indigenous institutions and expertise that will create 
sustainable, domestic solutions to pressing issues. At the same time, 
these efforts generate respect and affinity around the world for the 
United States, one of the many underappreciated benefits that will 
accrue from more fully integrating science and scientists into our 
diplomatic efforts. H.R. 3081 makes important strides toward rebuilding 
our diplomatic capacity, but as part of that effort, we should focus on 
enhancing the scientific expertise and capacity at the State 
Department.

The U.S. also should support more robust scientist exchange programs, 
which foster lasting ties between individuals and allow societies to 
share discoveries that advance our collective knowledge. Similarly, 
international research facilities provide a setting to generate 
productive science while advancing cultural understanding and building 
bridges between nations. One example is the Synchrotron-light for 
Experimental Science and Applications in the Middle East. Known as 
''SESAME,'' this project is being completed in Jordan under the 
auspices of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural 
Organization (UNESCO). The facility will bring together Arabs, 
Israelis, and other scientists from the region to work cooperatively on 
dozens of simultaneous experiments in fields ranging from biological 
and medical sciences to archaeology.

The U.S. should vigorously support and participate in these types of 
initiatives. We have much to offer the rest of the world with respect 
to science and technology, but we also have much to learn and much to 
gain by scientific engagement. I look forward to working with the 
Administration and my colleagues in Congress to strengthen our 
international efforts and diplomatic capability in these areas.
