---
---

# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUESTS--AMENDMENT NO. 1401
## `cd9434887355b6ea54f738360af8aeb3`
`Mr. REID â€” 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I have said earlier that we had to file 
cloture on the initial amendment of Senator Jim Webb, which was an 
amendment that simply called for the proper rotation of our troops: 15 
months in country, 15 months out of country. We wanted the Senate to 
speak its will on that with a simple majority, and we were unable to 
get it. We feel the same way about Levin-Reed. It is a very important 
policy decision this Senate needs to make. Not to change--I don't know 
what Cornyn is, but I am sure it is something that is much different 
than Levin-Reed. Therefore, if there is a suggestion that I amend my 
unanimous consent request to have some side-by-side, 60-vote margins, I 
would object to that. I believe we should have in that instance an up-
or-down vote. I have no problem giving Senator Cornyn a majority vote, 
which I think would be very appropriate. I think that is where we need 
to be on this issue; that is, this issue of the Defense authorization 
bill. It is very unusual to have on the Defense authorization bill, 
even issues dealing with Iraq--in times passed, we haven't had a 60-
vote margin.


So I would not accept my friend's suggestion that there be side by 
sides. I renew my request that there be a time for an up-or-down vote 
on the Levin-Reed amendment. I have suggested 6 hours.