---
---

# IMPACT OF THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET ON AMERICA
## `cd9ab785564644565baacc8536613388`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. We are talking here about adding $3.2 
trillion to the deficit over the next 2 years, $3.2 trillion to a 
deficit that is already exploding beyond any numbers of previous 
Congresses. Remember, this Congress inherited when the Republicans took 
control in 1994 a surplus. They had money to spend and they have turned 
it into record deficits, and now the President is going to add on to 
it.



Now, here is the other part, Mr. Altmire, that creates the problem. 
This budget that was presented to us today not only doesn't include the 
cost of the war, doesn't include fixing this middle class tax increase, 
also paints a real rosy picture in term of revenues, but it also has 
some tax breaks in it, but they are tax breaks for the very, very 
wealthy. We have got another $2 trillion in tax breaks over the next 10 
years in this budget, and as we know because we have all seen the 
charts in the 30-something Working Group, because I have watched them 
on TV talk about it for the last 2 years. Those tax breaks, Mr. 
Altmire, are going to end up going to the richest 1, 2, 3 percent of 
Americans, and the hard working middle class families in and around the 
Pittsburgh area where you are and in and around northwestern 
Connecticut aren't going to get the benefit of those tax breaks.

So what throws this thing so out of balance is not just that we are 
not counting some massive expenditures in the war in Iraq, and 
hopefully the Congress is going to do something about that, but it also 
includes in it these big tax breaks that just aren't going to go to 
families like yours or families throughout Philadelphia, throughout 
Connecticut, in fact throughout this whole country.

So Mr. Speaker and Members, we have got some work to do on this 
budget. And I am frankly upset by the budget that the President put 
before us, but I am glad that we have a party in control and a 
leadership in control of this House that is going to take that budget, 
it is going to take that budget and twist it and turn it so that middle 
class families end up coming out in the lead at the end of this 
process. Because what has happened in the past is the President puts 
forth one of these backwards budget, the Republicans sort of tinker 
with it here and there to make sure that it ends up favoring the 
special interests of the lobbyists that are currently in favor in 
Congress, and in the end people that we care about don't get helped at 
all.

So, Mr. Altmire, I am just looking forward to a budget process here 
which takes I think what is a very flawed document and turns it around 
and makes it work for regular middle class, working class families 
throughout this country.