---
---

# CONGRATULATING SERGEANT FIRST CLASS BLAKE SIMMS AND SERGEANT FIRST  CLASS CHAD STACKPOLE
## `cda0bef518ca2a7222ce24196a3ee80a`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 9 July 2009`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate 
Sergeant First Class Blake Simms and Sergeant First Class Chad 
Stackpole, winners of the 2009 Best Ranger Competition, a rigorous 
contest at Fort Benning, Ga., between elite two-man teams.

Simms and Stackpole won a home-court victory, as they hail from 
Benning's 4th Ranger Training Battalion.

The Best Ranger Competition started out as a contest between the best 
two-man teams at Fort Benning in the early 1980s but quickly expanded 
Army-wide. It easily rates as one of the toughest, most physically 
demanding competitions in the world. Contestants endure extreme demands 
of their physical, mental and technical abilities as Rangers, and they 
must deliver at levels that far exceed the expectations of average 
soldiers.

Today, the competition pits the best of the best against each other. 
It's an honor to simply win a spot in the contest, making Simms and 
Stackpole's accomplishment all the more extraordinary. The event lasts 
three days and teams face elimination unless they complete all events, 
which include marksmanship, climbing a 60-foot rope and long, wet 
hikes. It's easy to see why of the 49 teams that entered only 24 
finished all courses.

Both Sergeant First Class Blake Simms and Sergeant First Class Chad 
Stackpole have been awarded many medals, including the Army 
Commendation Medal, the Army Achievement Medal, the Valorous Unit Award 
and many others.

Simms, from Columbus, GA, joined the service after high school in 
1999. He has served one tour in Iraq and also participated in the 
humanitarian aid to New Orleans following the aftermath of Hurricane 
Katrina. Simms had competed in the Best Ranger Competition twice 
before. He is married with two children.

Stackpole, from Bowling Green, KY, has served since 1998 and has 
deployed to Iraq twice. He and his wife Andrea have two children. 
Stackpole has competed in the competition twice with a 5th place finish 
last year.

Sergeant First Class Blake Simms and Sergeant First Class Chad 
Stackpole have dedicated their lives to the service of this nation and 
have dedicated years of their lives to fighting on the front lines of 
the war on terrorism in Afghanistan and Iraq. With a combination of 
hard work, dedication and talent, they have proven on the field of 
battle and on the field of competition that they rank amongst the best 
soldiers in the U.S. Army--the greatest fighting force in the history 
of the world.

Madam Speaker, I call on the U.S. House of Representatives to join me 
and the people of Georgia's 3rd Congressional District in honoring the 
service and applauding the stellar achievements of Sergeant First Class 
Blake Simms and Sergeant First Class Chad Stackpole. They are a tribute 
to Fort Benning, the U.S. Army Rangers, and the United States.
