# EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `cdad42bd7a3554f21ea66dfab14462db`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 29 September 2008`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, we started here a week ago with the Paulson plan. It 
was simple: Give him the keys to the Treasury and suspend all the laws. 
What we are doing, or proposing here today, is infinitely better, and 
the Democrats have labored hard to put in taxpayer protections and 
provide consequences for Wall Street executives.

But what we consider today is still built on the Paulson-Bush 
premise; that is, President Bush and his Treasury Secretary, Mr. 
Paulson, say that dumping $700 billion of taxpayer-financed debt--we'll 
borrow the money--on top of Wall Street and buying up Wall Street's bad 
debts will solve the liquidity problem. It will trickle down through 
the economy to benefit small business. It will solve the underlying 
problem with the housing market, and it will stem job loss.

I don't buy it. There are less expensive, less risky, targeted 
regulatory reforms and programs that could work better.

But bottom line, President George Bush and his Treasury Secretary, 
Henry Paulson, insisted on a top-down Wall Street bailout solution. 
It's sort of like the financial surge strategy. And just like the surge 
in Iraq, as we go into it at the outset, we know it's not sustainable 
and we know it won't solve the underlying problems.

Even worse, President Bush and Secretary Paulson and the Republicans 
insisted upon watering down the most critical portions of the bill. 
There is no mandatory way to pay for this bailout, no fee, no tax, just 
a proposal from a future President to a Congress that a Congress might 
think about to help take taxpayers off the hook. That's not protection. 
The golden parachutes, yes, they were exchanged for camouflaged 
parachutes. The execs on Wall Street are still going to get millions. 
Look at the loopholes there. We have added back in, at the insistence 
of the Secretary, credit card debt, auto loans.

We can do better. We should start again on a new package, come back 
next week.