# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008
## `cdb11a7bc488d7d457ddce0fff8a0167`
`Mr. SMITH of Texas — 14 March 2008`

---


Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

This debate today is not about Republican or Democratic arguments. It 
is not about right or left ideology. It is simply about protecting our 
country, and it is about protecting American lives. This might be a 
good time to recall the story of the American soldiers who were killed 
in Iraq last May. When the U.S. military discovered that the soldiers 
had been kidnapped by terrorists, they launched a full scale search and 
rescue mission.

In the early hours of the operation, U.S. intelligence officials on 
the ground discovered a lead that required immediate electronic 
surveillance of telephone conversations. But the terrorist loophole, 
which requires a court order from Washington before conducting 
surveillance on a foreign target, prevented our intelligence officials 
from gathering information from almost 10 hours.

The body of one of the soldiers was later found in the Euphrates 
River. The terrorists claim to have executed the other two soldiers.

We will never know if that information could have saved the lives of 
our soldiers. But we do know that the terrorist loophole tied our hands 
then and perhaps is costing us lives now.

Prior to enactment of the Protect America Act, the Director of 
National Intelligence, Admiral McConnell, warned Congress that our 
intelligence community was missing two-thirds of all overseas terrorist 
communications. Three weeks ago, the Protect America Act expired, and 
our intelligence community lost the tools they need to monitor 
terrorists overseas and protect Americans here at home. We may never 
recover the foreign intelligence lost because of Congress's inaction.

This intelligence might have given us information about terrorist 
plots or foreign espionage. I hope these missed opportunities will not 
lead to a terrorist attack in the United States or in other countries 
that could have been prevented.

We are now 27 days late and much intelligence short because of the 
Democratic leadership's refusal to consider the bipartisan Senate bill. 
If they had brought it to the floor 3 weeks ago, it would have passed 
easily; and America would be safer today. But rather than modernize the 
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, the Democrat majority's bill 
actually weakens it.

First, the Democrats' bill requires a court order before the 
government can begin surveillance of a foreign terrorist overseas. FISA 
has never required a court order to target foreigners overseas. As we 
saw in May, this causes significant delays in gathering foreign 
intelligence, placing Americans at risk.

Second, the Democrats' bill denies giving immunity to 
telecommunications providers who assisted the government following the 
terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The past


and future cooperation of these companies is essential to our national 
security.

Ninety-eight percent of America's communications technology is owned 
by private sector companies. We cannot conduct foreign surveillance 
without them. But if we continue to subject them to billion-dollar 
lawsuits, we risk losing their cooperation in the future. In fact, this 
bill is so flawed that the President has promised to veto it. Even 
more, Senator Reid, the Democratic majority leader, acknowledges that 
this legislation will never pass in the Senate.

Congress can and must do better than this bill. Our liberties, our 
security, and the future of our Nation depend on it.

I urge my colleagues to oppose this fatally flawed piece of 
legislation, and I ask the Democratic majority to bring the bipartisan 
Senate bill to the House floor for a vote.

Mr. Speaker, I will reserve the balance of my time.