# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES REGARDING THE  TERRORIST ATTACKS LAUNCHED AGAINST THE UNITED STATES ON SEPTEMBER 11,
## `cdb40ef790b340073ce569bb2665e918`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 11 September 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, we suffer in our remembrance of 9/11, 
because of the terrible loss of innocent lives on that grim day. We 
also suffer because 9/11 was seized as an opportunity to run a 
political agenda, which has set America on a course of the destruction 
of another nation and the destruction of our own Constitution. And we 
have become less secure as a result of the warped practice of pursuing 
peace through the exercise of pre-emptive military strength.

It is not simply 9/11 that needs to be remembered. We also need to 
remember the politicization of 9/11 and the polarizing narrative which 
followed, locking us into endless conflict, a war on terror which has 
wrought further terror worldwide and which has severely damaged our 
standing worldwide as an honorable, compassionate nation. As we were 
all victims of 9/11, so we have become victims of the interpretation of 
9/11.

Our Government's external response to 9/11 was to attack a nation 
which did not attack us. Indeed on the first anniversary of 9/11, the 
Bush administration issued a well-publicized stern warning to Iraq 
which was part of a campaign to induce people to believe Iraq had 
something to do with 9/11.

The deliberate, systematic connection of Iraq with 9/11 has led 
America into a philosophical and moral cul-de-sac as over 1 million 
Iraqis and over 4,155 U.S. soldiers have died in a war which will cost 
over $3 trillion. Additionally, soldiers from 23 other countries have 
died in the Iraq war.

Last year, I voted against a similar resolution to the one before us 
today because it ignored the reality of the administration's use of 9/
11 as a false justification for war. This year, I will vote for the 
resolution because I have renewed hope that the day will come when 
September 11 will no longer symbolize the false justification for an 
unjustified and unprovoked war.

Over two dozen nations, facing peril within and without, deeply 
divided by politics and war, have traveled down a path of restoring 
civil society through a formal process of reconciliation. At some point 
within each of those countries it was understood that the way forward 
is shown through the light of truth. This process is not without pain 
because it requires a willingness to study evidence to which eyes had 
been averted and ears had been closed. But in the process of truth and 
reconciliation, nations found new strength, new resolve, new 
commitment.

The South African Truth and Reconciliation enabled that nation to 
come to grips with its past through a public confessional, bringing 
forward those who committed crimes and having the power to grant 
amnesty for full disclosure of crimes against the people. Of course, 
our path may necessarily be different: High U.S. government officials 
stand accused in impeachment petitions of violating national and 
international law. Our continued existence as a democracy may depend 
upon how thoroughly we seek the truth. I will call upon the American 
people to join me in supporting this effort.

The truth can move us forward, as a unified whole, so that we can one 
day become a re-United States. 9/11 is the day the world changed. It is 
the day America embraced a metaphor of war. If we are open to truth and 
reconciliation, we may one day be able, once again, to embrace peace.