---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS LENDING IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `cdbe39ff99150ab216b5b2297e3a796d`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 25 April 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 
1332, the Small Business Lending Improvements Act. As a member of 
Congress, I have been a strong supporter of our Nation's small 
businesses. Already this week, we have debated bills seeking to ensure 
that America remains competitive in the global economy, and, in doing 
so, we have recognized the importance of ongoing technological 
innovation. Small businesses comprise an important segment of this 
process of development; by acting as a catalyst within our economy, 
they spur growth for all sectors of business.

Small businesses represent the American dream, and they define the 
American economy. These businesses currently account for 95 percent of 
all employers, create half of our gross domestic product, and provide 
three out of four new jobs in this country. However, to keep this 
sector of the economy thriving, small businesses require access to 
loans to initiate, develop, and expand their range of goods and 
services. The Small Business Administration (SBA), a Federal 
organization that aids small businesses with loan and development 
programs, is a key provider of support to small businesses. The SBA's 
main loan program accounts for 30 percent of all long-term small 
business borrowing in America.

By streamlining the SBA's two largest finance programs directed at 
small businesses, H.R. 1332 would offer these businesses the crucial 
tools that they need to be successful in today's marketplace. This bill 
gives the SBA authority to contribute funds to reduce the burden 
associated with borrower and lender fees on 7(a) loans, making these 
loans more economical, without upsetting the program's current 
stability.


H.R. 1332 also creates several new loan programs under the 7(a) 
umbrella. It specifically reaches out to rural lenders, reducing their 
7(a) loan paperwork. It makes permanent the Community Express Program, 
granting improved access to capital for socially and economically 
disadvantaged small businesses. It recognizes the I need for doctors 
and dentists in federally designated Health Professional Shortage 
Areas, and establishes a program to reduce borrower and lender fees in 
these areas. Finally, this bill offers help to our returning veterans, 
those who have served our Nation bravely in Iraq and Afghanistan, to 
establish and expand their own businesses. In addition to all these 
programs, H.R. 1332 seeks to establish a Small Bank Outreach division 
within SBA. This new division would provide direct support to community 
banks participating in the 7(a) program, and would enable these local 
banks to make loans to a wider range of deserving businesses. It would 
also work to strengthen local economies by providing lenders deemed 
Certified Development Companies with a range of tools to grant loans to 
businesses within their own communities.

As we consider what we as a Congress might do to make our Nation more 
economically secure, and to continue to augment our position within the 
global economy, it is crucial that we focus on the importance of small 
businesses. Small business owners are leaders in innovation, creative 
business operations and new technologies and products. I continue to 
believe that the success of our economy is dependent on these 
businesses. I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and to continue 
to assist small business owners to realize their potential.