# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `cdd5fdeab7b7f31b3d5933638dd8cc19`
`Mr. LUGAR — 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, I asked for an assurance that over the 
duration of the New START treaty the Defense Department will not permit 
a situation to arise where heavy bombers lack sufficient and credible 
nuclear standoff attack capability.

Secretary Gates responded that the current air-launched cruise 
missile will be maintained through 2030 with multiple lifetime 
extensions and that ''the Administration is committed to providing a 
sufficient and credible nuclear standoff attack capability, and ensure 
that the bomber leg of the Triad remains fully capable of supporting 
U.S. deterrent requirements.''

I also sought assurance that the language in the 1251 update will in 
no way modify the basing of the ICBM leg of the triad nor constrain its 
future designs with respect to warhead loadings; that is, constraining 
it to meet some arms control goal of fewer warheads for ICBMs.

Secretary Gates responded that ''The Administration is also committed 
to sustaining the silo-based Minuteman III force through 2030, as 
mandated by Congress'' and that ''[N]either the Update to the 1251 
Report nor planning and guidance for a follow-on ICBM will constrain 
the flexibility of a follow-on design with respect to warhead 
loadings.''

Bombers will have sufficient nuclear weapons under New START. We are 
not going to constrain a future ICBM for purposes of arms control.

With these commitments, and our declaration, I am assured by 
Secretary of Defense Gates that we will have a credible bomber leg, one 
that allows us sufficient and flexible responses to strategic change, 
and that a future ICBM will not be less effective or flexible than our 
present ICBMs.

Moreover, regarding New START force levels, the combatant commander 
responsible for executing strategic deterrence operations and planning 
for nuclear operations, General Chilton, has said this about the New 
START treaty and its force structure:




 Under the New START Treaty, based on U.S. Strategic Command 


 analysis, I assess that the triad of diverse and 


 complementary delivery systems will provide sufficient 


 capabilities to make our deterrent credible and effective. . 


 . . Under the New START Treaty, the United States will retain 


 the military flexibility necessary to ensure each of these 


 for the period of the treaty. . . . U.S. Strategic Command 


 analyzed the required nuclear weapons and delivery vehicle 


 force structure and posture to meet current guidance and 


 provided options for consideration by the Department of 


 Defense . . . this rigorous appraisal rooted in both 


 deterrence strategy and an assessment of potential adversary 


 capabilities, validated both the agreed-upon reductions in 


 the New START Treaty and recommendations in the Nuclear 


 Posture Review.


End of quote from General Chilton.

Note what he said--that this analysis take into account potential 
adversary capabilities. General Chilton is confident in our deterrent 
and that the force structure under the treaty and our triad will meet 
our needs.

I do not think we should dispute either General Chilton or Secretary 
Gates--long-serving professionals who have served both Presidents Bush 
and Obama so very well.

I would add, supplementing the excellent comments made by my 
colleague, the chairman, that from the beginning of our debates in the 
Senate on arms control treaties or even before that, the so-called 
Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, there have been many 
Senators very sincere in their viewpoints that they simply do not like 
arms control treaties. Furthermore, they would counsel that you cannot 
trust the Russians. Therefore, adding the two together, if you have an


aversion to arms control treaties and agreements and you do not trust 
the Russians and, furthermore, you do not want to trust the Russians or 
have any further dealings with them quite apart from treaties on arms 
control, this leads to certain skepticism, if not outright opposition, 
to those of us who have been proposing arms control treaties for 
several years and arms control treaties with the Russians in 
particular.

I would simply point out, as I tried to yesterday informally, that 
there are always extraordinary problems with verification of any 
treaty, and much of the debate on this treaty, in terms of our 
committee responsibilities and initial statements made by Senators on 
the floor, zero in on such points, as to the fact that you cannot trust 
the Russians, and/or there are other things in the world we ought to be 
paying attention to, much more important than the Russians for that 
matter, and, further, that somehow this treaty, in particular, will 
inhibit the defense of our country, specifically through missile 
defense.

Members of administrations past and present have affirmed it is 
important to have arms control treaties with the Russians. It has not 
ever been a question of trusting the Russians. It has been a question 
of trying to provide verification that the provisions of the treaties 
that we have negotiated are, in fact, fulfilled. It is a fact, as has 
been suggested by some Senators, that on several occasions we have 
found violations or very dubious conduct on the part of the Russians. I 
have no idea how many times they have testified they have found 
something doubtful about our performance, but in any event, in the real 
world of deterrence and the real world of verifiability, there have 
been abrasions and arguments and disputes.


I would simply say one of the values of the treaties we have had with 
the Russians, and specifically the START treaty regime, is that they 
have allowed many of us--the distinguished chairman has made a good 
number of trips to Russia and to countries that surround Russia. I have 
had that responsibility and opportunity for many years likewise.

I testified yesterday during our debate that on one occasion, when I 
was invited to come to Sevmash, the submarine base, I saw things no 
American had ever seen before, apparently. When we talk about our 
intelligence facilities, there were no pictures taken by our 
intelligence folks, or very good dimensions of what a Typhoon submarine 
actually looked like or what it did. We had various suppositions. 
Incredibly, after my visit to Sevmash, where we were not allowed to 
take pictures, a Russian sent to me a picture of me standing in front 
of a Typhoon submarine. From our intelligence standpoint, this was the 
first time anyone had seen a picture of a Typhoon, quite apart from a 
diligent Senator standing in front of it. Furthermore, we had good 
opportunities with the Russians to discuss the Typhoon.

I don't specialize in submarines, but I was able to take notes and to 
make known at least my impressions of that particular situation. Why in 
the world would someone invite a Senator to come see something of that 
variety? It came about because we literally had not only boots on the 
ground in terms of our military but some of us even as Senators. The 
relationship was such that the Russians, perceiving they needed to get 
rid of the Typhoon submarines and it was going to be very expensive, 
technically maybe even dangerous with regard to removal of all of the 
200 missiles, decided it was time to do business. The opportunities 
that come, in other words, from a relationship of that sort sometimes 
move in directions no one might have anticipated--but to the good, in 
my judgment. I admitted yesterday only three of the six Typhoons have, 
in fact, been destroyed. It is a tedious, expensive, difficult process.

But getting back to our debates on the floor of the Senate, I can 
recall not only during the initial discussion of the Nunn-Lugar Act, 
but almost annually as appropriations were sought to continue this 
work, skeptical colleagues, first of all, doubting the value of any 
type of arrangement with the Russians, and doubting very much whether a 
dime of American taxpayer money should ever be spent on the Russians in 
this regard. So some of us, as reasonably and calmly as possible, could 
say, Well, we think it is probably important that if there are, in 
fact, nuclear warheads, thousands of them, aimed at our cities as well 
as our military installations, and we have opportunities and 
cooperative threat reduction to work as contractors, as Senators, as 
military officials, whoever, with the Russians, we ought to take those 
warheads that are aimed at us off the missiles. We ought to physically 
take the missiles down. We ought to, in fact, destroy the silos in 
which they are located, and we think this is probably a valuable use of 
taxpayer money in terms of our own defense.

Each year, by and large, that argument won, although rarely 
unanimously. On one occasion, incredible as it may be, Members of the 
Senate added so many qualifications, so many additional reports that 
had to be filed by the Defense Department or the State Department or 
intelligence authorities that the whole fiscal year passed without a 
single dollar being available for expenditure on any of this armament 
reduction. In other words, Senators were so involved in attempting to 
demonstrate their mistrust of the Russians, their demand that our 
bureaucracy fulfill all sorts of impossible goals, that nothing got 
done. Eventually over the course of the decade, we evolved to a point 
where by and large those sorts of debates began to taper off--and I am 
grateful for that--and we began to see the possibilities not only with 
regard to the Russians but other countries who had strange weapons that 
they reported to us and sought our cooperation. This is well beyond 
even the ability to wind up the nuclear situation in Ukraine or 
Kazakhstan or Belarus or what have you.

I would cite one more, and that is in the year 2004, the first year 
in which the Senate voted that at least $50 million--just $50 million 
of about $500 million that year of the Nunn-Lugar program could be used 
outside of Russia. So strong were feelings of some in opposition to the 
Nunn-Lugar program that they saw the fact that it might spread outside 
of Russia almost as a contaminant, something that ought to be 
contained. They felt it was bad enough that we had ever had such a 
thing in Russia, quite apart that we ought to destroy weapons anywhere 
else. But nevertheless, a majority of the Senate did allow for $50 
million. That very summer authorities in Albania notified the Pentagon 
that they had found some strange drums up above the capital city of 
Tirana in Albania, and they wanted to report that to us because they 
thought they needed assistance, probably for safety's sake of the 
Albanians who had found the drums. Our officials, having been invited 
by the Albanians, went in fact to the mountains and they found the 
drums were filled with nerve gas. Very quickly, they simply put up a 
modest fence and began to roll the drums in behind the fence.

I was invited to come over at that stage and I did, and I had good 
visits to our Ambassador to Albania, with their foreign minister and 
their defense minister, members of their Parliament. Albania at that 
time was a state that was coming out of a terrible dictatorship--a 
dictatorship so adverse that it was even difficult for the Soviet Union 
or China to deal with. Where in the world the nerve gas came from is a 
matter of conjecture. But in any event, once we had indicated our hopes 
that we could work with the Albanians, they invited us to do so and to 
help them destroy it.

As a matter of fact, as a bonus, while we were up in the mountains 
they took us by several sheds where there were hundreds of MANPAD 
missiles--not weapons of mass destruction, but missiles we had 
furnished, as a matter of fact, to forces in Afghanistan in an earlier 
war to drive out the former Soviet Union. So we were able to destroy 
those while we were at it. As an added bonus, the Defense Minister of 
Albania said, We believe we ought to set up a military academy along 
the same standards of your military academy at West Point. As a further 
gesture, we are going to have as a requirement that each of our cadets 
must master the English language so that we are going to be able to 
deal with you for some time to come. I felt that was an important 
gesture. I mention this because in the course of arms control, a


good number of things happen that are very important.

I will conclude by saying that Albania 2 years later invited all of 
the countries of the world to come to their capital and to celebrate 
the fact that Albania claimed to be the first nation state to fulfill 
the chemical weapons convention, that all chemical weapons in the 
country had been destroyed, and we celebrated with them, and it was 
literally a derivative of the situation we are describing today.

So I ask those who are normally skeptical to continue to ask good 
questions but likewise to understand the history at least of the last 
two decades that has been very constructive for our country.

I yield the floor.