---
---

# AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE FOR AMERICA ACT
## `cde8318415c07e742224319d8f9da9fe`
`Ms. KILPATRICK of Michigan — 7 November 2009`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of 
H.R. 3962, Affordable Health Care for America Act, offered by Rep. John 
Dingell of Michigan and ask all of my colleagues to support this 
historic bill before us that will expand coverage to 36 million 
uninsured Americans, ensure that patients and physicians make their own 
health care choices, reduces administrative costs, invests in wellness 
and prevention, reforms the insurance industry by ending discriminatory 
practices, especially pre-existing conditions and health disparities, 
and allows young adults to remain on their parents' insurance policy 
until the age of 27.

I have held numerous town hall meetings in my district to listen to 
the views of my constituents. My office has received numerous calls, 
emails, and letters on this subject, with an overwhelming majority 
asking me to vote YES on the bill because America cannot wait any 
longer for health care insurance reform. More than 300 groups, 
representing millions of Americans, have expressed their support for 
the bill, including the American Association of Retired Persons, the 
American Cancer Society, the United Auto Workers, the AFL-CIO, the 
SEIU, Families USA and the National Committee to Preserve Social 
Security and Medicare. The groups expressing their support include a 
broad range, including groups representing doctors, seniors, small 
business, youth, women, persons with disabilities, consumers and 
patients.

Health care insurance reform is not a Republican or Democratic issue, 
it is an American issue. Under a Democratic President, we witnessed the 
beginnings of health care reform with Medicaid and Medicare in the 
1960s. Under another Democratic President, we will witness the second 
coming of true health care reform.

Today's vote will mark a change in our country where every American 
will know that health care is a top priority for this country. When I 
was a newly elected Member to the U.S. House of Representatives, 
Congress was in the throes of reforming health maintenance 
organizations or HMOs. While this was well intended, at the time, I 
asked, ''what about those millions of people who go to work each and 
every day, who care for our senior citizens in nursing homes, who clean 
our bathrooms, cook our food, clean our streets, and send their 
children to college, but whose employers do not provide health care?'' 
What happened is that those individuals did not have health care 
coverage, period. Now is the time to help those janitors, street 
sweepers, short-order cooks, child care workers, home health care 
providers, and small businesses so that those workers, too, will be 
able to have health care.

The 111th Congress has taken bold steps to provide more access to 
health care for Americans. While we have expanded health coverage to 
more than five million uninsured children through the passage of the 
State Comprehensive Health Improvement Plan or SCHIP, we must complete 
what we started. Access to health care is vital to the health of not 
only individual Americans but to the American economy.

Even before our recent economic crisis, health care was getting more 
expensive, what few benefits were offered were eroding, and even more 
people were losing coverage. In 2007, according to various sources, 45 
million Americans were uninsured; this number is an increase over 
2000's 38.7 uninsured Americans. And this is the uninsured; we are not 
even discussing the millions more senior citizens, working poor and 
families who are underinsured. I am talking about seniors who have to 
choose between eating or their prescriptions. I am talking about those 
families who have to choose between taking their child to the doctor or 
food for the week. The economic crisis has only made this situation 
worse.

The bankruptcy of the automobile industry, the closing of auto 
dealerships, and the crisis faced by automobile suppliers have caused 
thousands more in our Nation and in particular the state of Michigan to 
lose their employee health benefits.

Our version of health care reform, the Affordable Healthcare for All 
Americans Act, has four key highlights for Americans and American 
businesses: lower costs; greater choice; higher quality and peace of 
mind. As Health and Human Services Secretary Sebelius said earlier, if 
we do nothing to reform health care, we will continue to live sicker, 
die faster and pay twice as much.

Health care reform legislation should require coverage of the full 
range of women's reproductive health services. H.R. 3962 protects these 
rights and ensures that all women have access to a health care plan 
that meets their needs while respecting current law. The Stupak 
amendment would limit access to reproductive care in the private and 
public options, and does not allow citizens to pay for the procedure 
out of their own pockets. I voted against the Stupak amendment.






Health care reform will provide lower health care costs


Under the America's Affordable Health Care Act, there will be no more 
co-pays or deductibles for preventive care. No more rate increases or 
exclusions for pre-existing conditions, gender or occupation. There 
will be an annual cap on the out of pocket expenses for individuals and 
businesses. Finally, for the first time, there will be guaranteed and 
affordable oral, hearing, and vision care for children.

By having a public health care plan, the bill will ensure competition 
for Americans to have the best health care at the most affordable cost. 
Also, since everyone will have health care, no one industry or business 
will be at an advantage over another one.




Health Care reform will provide greater choice for all Americans


Americans will be able to keep their doctor, and their current plan, 
if you like what you have. With a high quality public health insurance 
option competing with private insurers, there will be more choice of 
providers and more benefits. The important aspect is this--every 
American will have a choice of providers, versus today's choice, 
for the uninsured, of the emergency room or no care at all. No one will 
be forced into a public option. This will just be one of many choices.



Health care reform will provide higher quality health care for all 












Americans and businesses


You and your doctor--not insurance companies--will make health care 
decisions. As more primary care, family doctors, and nurses enter the 
workforce, even more access is guaranteed for all Americans. Also, the 
bill mandates coverage for mental health care, a key issue that will 
affect, in particular, the families of our service members who are 
returning from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.








 Health care reform will provide peace of mind


The bill provides a cap on catastrophic coverage--coverage for 
traumatic injuries such as spinal cord injuries and long-term health 
care. There will be no more denial of coverage for preexisting 
conditions, and no reason to make a life or job decision based on 
whether or not you or your family will have health care coverage.

We need health insurance reform now. Access to quality, affordable 
health care is critical to the well-being of all Michiganders and all 
Americans, today and tomorrow. Central to all of this is addressing the 
needs of uninsured Americans, strengthening our Medicare system, 
providing health insurance to low-income children and families, funding 
research into diseases like diabetes and cancer, and giving patients 
the ability to make decisions with their doctors, not health insurance 
companies. An estimated 1,400 families lose health insurance every day 
that we do not pass health insurance reform.

One aspect of this legislation of which I am most proud is its fiscal 
responsibility. According to a letter dated November 5, 2009 from the 
non-partisan, objective Congressional Budget Office, this bill adds not 
one dime to


the deficit. Furthermore, this bill reduces the deficit by an estimated 
$109 billion. This is not only fiscally responsible, it allows us to 
provide health care to the least of our sisters and brothers.

When this bill is signed into law, ten provisions of the bill will 
take effect immediately:

It will begin to close the Medicare Part D ''Donut'' Hole. The bill 
reduces the donut hole by $500 per Medicare recipient and also 
institutes a 50-percent discount on brand-name drugs.

It gets health insurance to the uninsured. By creating a temporary 
insurance program, health care will be available for people who have 
been denied a policy due to preexisting conditions or who have not had 
health care for several months.

It bans lifetime limits on health care coverage. The bill prohibits 
health insurance companies from placing lifetime caps on coverage--
traditional coverage or catastrophic care coverage.

It provides health insurance for young people. It requires health 
insurance plans to allow young people through age 26 to remain on their 
parents' insurance policy at their parent's choice.

It eliminates cost-sharing for preventive services in Medicare. It 
eliminates co-payments for preventive services and exempts preventive 
services from deductibles under the Medicare program.

It ends health care rescissions. It prohibits insurers from 
nullifying or ''rescinding'' a patient's policy when they file a claim 
for benefits, except in cases of fraud.

It bans copayments and deductibles. It eliminates copayments for 
preventive services and also exempts preventive services from 
deductibles under the Medicare program.

It increases funding for community health centers. It increases 
funding for Community Health Centers to allow twice the number of 
patients seen by Community Health Centers for the next 5 years.

It increases the number of primary care doctors. It increases the 
investment by the Federal Government in training programs to increase 
the number of primary care doctors, nurses, and public health 
professionals.

Creates long-term health care for disabled adults. The bill creates a 
longterm care insurance program to be financed by voluntary payroll 
deductions to provide benefits to adults who become functionally 
disabled.

As with Medicare and Medicaid, the Federal Government has the 
Constitutional power to reform our health care system. The 10th 
amendment to the U.S. Constitution states that the powers not delegated 
to the federal government by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to 
the states, are reserved to the states . . . or to the people. Article 
One, Section Three, also known as the Commerce Clause, says the same 
thing. The Constitution gives Congress broad power to regulate 
activities that have an effect on interstate commerce. Congress has 
used this authority to regulate many aspects, from labor relations to 
education to health care to agricultural production. Since virtually 
every aspect of the heath care system has an effect on interstate 
commerce, the power of Congress to regulate health care is essentially 
unlimited.

The Affordable Health Care for America Act is good for small 
businesses. Under this legislation, many small businesses will be 
eligible for a new tax credit to help them provide coverage for their 
workers and their families--and they or their workers will get access 
to a new comparison shopping marketplace with low rates and good 
benefits like large groups get. Without health insurance reform, small 
businesses would pay nearly $2.4 trillion over the next 10 years in 
health care costs for their workers. According to the nonpartisan Joint 
Committee on Taxation--only 1.2 percent of the wealthiest Americans 
will be subject to the surcharge and it would only apply to dollars 
earned over $1 million for a couple and $500,000 for an individual. 
Furthermore, 86 percent of all businesses are exempt from the 
requirement to provide health insurance coverage to their workers.

Nothing in the House bill will cut basic Medicare benefits. The 
Affordable Health Care for America Act strengthens and improves 
Medicare benefits for older Americans and helps eliminate waste, fraud 
and inefficiency from Medicare--including gross overpayments to 
insurance companies providing Medicare Advantage plans which do nothing 
to improve care for Medicare Advantage beneficiaries.

The Affordable Health Care for America Act is comprehensive health 
insurance reform that covers 96 percent of Americans, ensures 
affordability for the middle class, provides security for our seniors, 
ends discrimination by insurance companies against the sick, caps what 
Americans pay out-of-pocket and protects our children's future by not 
adding to our deficit.

Finally, health care reform will allow the United States to catch up 
to the rest of the industrialized world. We are the only nation that 
does not provide universal health care coverage to its citizens. This 
puts the health of not only individual Americans at jeopardy, it puts 
the health of our economy in jeopardy. Businesses that have to compete 
with China, India, Europe and other countries are doing so on an 
uneven, unfair playing field, because while China, India and European 
businesses do not have to pay for health care, American businesses do. 
Health care reform will allow these businesses to truly compete on a 
global plane.

I applaud my colleagues in the House of Representatives for 
supporting this legislation in ensuring that health care reform is 
accessible, available, and affordable for all Americans and American 
businesses. Two generations is long enough for the American people to 
wait for comprehensive health care reform. Health care is the key moral 
and economic imperative for our Nation and this Congress. We must 
reform health care now.