# ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT
## `cdfc9651f68e84b40e57773e4c0224cc`
`Mr. SHADEGG — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. SHADEGG. Reclaiming my time, Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that in 
the Contract with America we offered to the minority 154 amendments. We 
had a functioning Rules Committee. Every bill in the Contract with 
America went through the standing committee process. Every bill went to 
the Rules Committee. The minority was entitled to bring amendments to, 
I think, all but two of those bills. This was our first effort. This 
was our first initiative to claim the attention of the American people.

We allowed the minority at that time to offer 154 amendments. And in 
that period, 48 of the minority's amendments were accepted. Now we have 
been here almost 1/1/2/ months, and we are being allowed the ability to 
amend only those bills on which there is no controversy.

I agree with the minority: the Speaker of the House should be 
protected. I agree with the minority that whether she is protected or 
not is an important issue for this Congress. But I do not agree that 
the minority isn't entitled to debate the expenditure of public funds, 
as we are doing here. I do not agree that this is an issue where, if 
the White House says it is a silly issue, we are not supposed to raise 
it. If that is the rule in this House, then I think there are a lot of 
things the White House is saying that my colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle are challenging.

And it seems to me that if you are unhappy with this debate, then you 
need to look at the context in which this debate occurs. And I would 
suggest to you that next week when we begin a debate on the war in Iraq 
and a debate on the war against the jihadis who threaten our lives in 
America, who threaten world security, I only hope, I dearly hope, that 
you will give us an open rule or a rule that allows each of the 
alternatives to be debated, because if you don't do that, if you 
continue to repress the rights of the minority, then you are going to 
have to expect this kind of debate by us whenever we can


raise it. It is our duty to our constituents. It is our obligation.