---
---

# None
## `ce0809a8c40fb87d7531f8ec7ecd08e7`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Very diplomatic. I want to make one final point 
before we close up here.

If the elections didn't go the way they were supposed to, or the way 
they did, I should say, and this was still a Republican-controlled 
House and a Republican-controlled Senate, just to put all this in 
context, what would have happened is the President would have said that 
we want to put 20,000 or 30,000 more troops in Iraq, and this Congress 
would have got out the rubber stamp, and it would have been a done 
deal. And in several months there would be a $100 billion supplemental 
and there would be 30,000 more troops in Iraq, and we would be further 
down the line. There would be no question that that is exactly what 
would have happened.


So the power and the force of the American people in their statement 
that they made basically says we are going to have a discussion about 
this. Now, how this ends up, we don't know. But I know from a personal 
perspective there is going to be some strong resistance to adding any 
more troops, and we are going to have a discussion about money and 
everything else.

Now, we don't have a caucus position, but the bottom line is this: 
there is going to be a discussion. And that is what is great about this 
country, and that is what is great about the elections. It is not just 
going to get rammed through this House, and the American people are not 
going to feel helpless. They are going to feel like they are here.

I know we are ready to wrap things up. Mr. Meek, great game last 
night. You are actually a Miami of Florida fan.