# ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
## `ce17fd19b9392572d7c76e08987a74ff`
`Ms. HIRONO — 15 March 2007`

---


Ms. HIRONO. Mr. Chairman, as a cosponsor of H.R. 400, introduced by 
my colleague from Hawaii, the Honorable Neil Abercrombie, which seeks 
to prohibit war profiteering, I support H.R. 1362 which champions the 
same goals.

At a time of war, when the lives of Americans are put at risk, when 
the limited resources of the Nation are being expended and when 
programs serving millions of Americans are being cut back, no 
corporation or person should ever be allowed to misuse, waste or 
misappropriate Federal tax dollars. Unfortunately, due to 
mismanagement, incompetence and sweetheart deals, and lack of 
oversight, certain U.S. corporations and their subsidiaries apparently 
have blatantly over-charged government agencies, engaged in wasteful 
practices and committed allegedly fraudulent acts that have resulted in 
the virtual disappearance of billions of dollars.

Examples of American corporations padding expenses then charging an 
administrative fee on top of the overpriced goods and services have 
been well-documented. Documentaries such as ''Iraq for Sale'' chronicle 
a chilling story of unchecked waste, demoralization of our troops from 
shoddy services provided by contractors and shameless acts of corporate 
misconduct.

It is shocking that, in some cases, it's all legal. Without 
reasonable restrictions on contractor spending and practices on no-bid 
and cost-plus contracts and lack of enforcement of existing law, there 
is no incentive to provide goods and services to the government at the 
least cost and with the greatest efficiency. Indeed, the current 
practices foster and encourage waste and corruption, as the dismal 
track record in Iraq of defense contractors demonstrate. Just one 
corporation, Halliburton, has disputed charges amounting to over a 
billion dollars.

This bill minimizes the use of no-bid contracts, promote the use of 
cost effective fixed-price contracts and limit the duration of no-bid 
contracts, which must be awarded under emergency conditions, to one 
year. This bill allows the awarding of no-bid contracts which cannot be 
delayed but require re-bidding when the emergency has elapsed. Public 
disclosure of the reasons for using no-bid contracts and overcharging 
will promote transparency and expose improper contracting practices. 
Fixed price, rather than open-ended cost-plus, contracts will encourage 
efficiency and minimize unrestricted spending by contractors.

H.R. 1362 will go a long way to curb unchecked abuse and 
overcharging, slipshod accounting practices and lack of accountability. 
It will give government procurement managers the authority to control 
wasteful and fraudulent contractor practices, as well as be governed by 
stricter ethical guidelines to regulate the procurement managers' own 
behavior.

Until now, there has been no effective congressional oversight since 
the war began and no effective laws to rein in wasteful, corrupt and, 
in fact, unpatriotic behavior. Billions have been lost in this war, 
while critical programs in education, health, environment, alternate 
energy and other domestic needs have been unnecessarily slashed.

This legislation will help correct this unacceptable situation. I 
commend Chairman Waxman and the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform for this important improvement in our Federal contracting laws.