---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ce19ff9e3e52b25af284d71a64b2809a`
`Mr. DURBIN — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I also wish at this moment to mention an 
amendment I am going to offer to this supplemental appropriation to 
increase funding for international peacekeeping by $50 million. It is 
amendment No. 784, cosponsored by--I am not offering it at this time, 
but I will at a later time--Senators Biden, Menendez, Levin, and 
others, to meet the urgent needs in Darfur, Sudan, and the surrounding 
region.

I believe these urgent peacekeeping needs constitute a true emergency 
by definition in this bill and should be funded. That was the amendment 
I originally filed and my colleagues joined in cosponsoring. I also 
recognize we are under severe budgetary pressure and I have been told I 
have to find an offset for the $50 million.

I do this with reluctance, but let me share with my colleagues a few 
numbers. The United States has spent $592 million in the construction 
of a gigantic Baghdad embassy--$592 million. For 2007 and 2008, the 
administration has requested $2.8 billion for mission operations in 
Iraq. To put this in perspective, the State Department's request for 
diplomatic and consular operations for the rest of the world for fiscal 
year 2008 is $5 billion. So $2.8 billion for Iraq, $5 billion for the 
world. This supplemental as passed out of the committee contains over 
$700 million for diplomatic and consular operations intended for Iraq.

This amendment, as I modified it, would shift $50 million from this 
sum to peacekeeping. Why do we need the peacekeeping? Because there are 
7,000 African Union forces who are doing their best to protect hundreds 
of thousands, if not millions, of poor people in Darfur. I think this 
$50 million is not too much to ask. A slight trim, a little trim on the 
money that might be available for the $592 million Baghdad embassy, is 
not something that is unreasonable. They will have time to come back 
for more money if they need it.

At the appropriate moment I will offer this amendment. I hope my 
colleagues will join me in supporting it.

I yield the floor.