# VETERANS' COMPENSATION COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 2007
## `ce1dfb5c1be14393be0181954e7f7bf6`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Thank you, Congressman, for yielding to me.

Mr. Speaker, I introduced H.R. 1284 earlier this month with the 
Chairman of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Congressman Filner.

Chairman Filner has been instrumental in moving this bill forward. I 
thank him for that. I also want to thank the ranking member of the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Steve Buyer, and our ranking member of 
the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, Doug 
Lamborn, who were both helpful in getting this bill moved 
expeditiously. The fact that we got this bill to the floor within the 
month shows the House leadership's commitment to our Nation's veterans.

As chairman of the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial 
Affairs, I believe that America must uphold its promise to care for our 
veterans and their families, and I strongly support efforts to 
alleviate unjust financial burdens imposed upon our Nation's veterans 
and their survivors. This is why I am so pleased that H.R. 1284 is on 
the floor today.

H.R. 1284 would provide a cost-of-living adjustment to the rates of 
disability compensation provided to our Nation's disabled veterans and 
to the compensation provided to the survivors of veterans and 
servicemembers who died or who will die as a result of military 
service.

Every year since 1976, Congress has enacted an annual COLA adjustment 
for veterans with disabilities and their survivors. The regularity of 
Congress' action on COLA legislation underscores its importance. 
Without it, inflation would diminish and erode the purchasing power of 
millions of beneficiaries. According to VA, as set forth in its fiscal 
year 2008 budget, the Department estimates that it will provide 
disability compensation to 3,220,031 veterans with service-related 
disabilities in fiscal year 2008.

In summary, this legislation is critical to the lives of over 3 
million beneficiaries who have served our country well and faithfully. 
I ask for your continued support for our Nation's veterans, and I ask 
for your support of the bipartisan Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-
Living-Adjustment Act of 2007.

I would just like to say a few words also about another bill that is 
on the floor today and falls under the jurisdiction of my subcommittee, 
H.R. 797, the Dr. James Allen Veteran Vision Equity Act. As with H.R. 
1284, I am proud of the speed and fashion in which this bill has come 
to the floor.

H.R. 797, which has the backing of the Blind Veterans Association, 
would put the Veterans Administration on a par with the Social Security 
Administration, the World Health Organization, and all 50 States in 
defining a visual impairment.

Furthermore, this bill allows certain veterans to receive a ''V'' on 
their gravestone and reauthorizes the VA's popular work/study program.

Mr. Speaker, this Congress faces a substantial task in dealing with 
the difficulties our veterans face. Currently there are more than 
570,000 veterans claims pending before the VA, literally hundreds of 
thousands of veterans waiting on decisions that can substantially 
affect their financial situation.

On top of this, we have a new generation of veterans returning from 
Iraq and Afghanistan. The subcommittee I chair, the Disability 
Assistance and Memorial Affairs Subcommittee, recently held a hearing 
where we heard from experts and Iraq war veterans. They all agree that 
the VA is critically unprepared to deal with these new commitments and 
will be overwhelmed.

One witness privately compared the VA's current position to that of a 
person standing on a beach while a tsunami comes rushing towards the 
shore. These men and women deserve our support, and it is incumbent 
upon this Congress to act.

In the coming month, I plan to hold hearings on several pieces of 
legislation that will address this backlog. I have introduced one bill 
which would provide interim benefits to veterans who have waited over 6 
months for a decision on their appeal.

While this will not fix the entire problem, it will help veterans pay 
their bills and buy their medicine while they wait for a decision from 
the VA. I look forward to working with colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle on these important issues, and I trust they share my sense of 
urgency on these matters.

It is my hope that H.R. 797 and H.R. 1284 are the first of many steps 
this Congress takes to ensure that those who have sacrificed so much 
for this country receive the benefits they have earned.