# EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `ce2b8d73e0f00c9266d310783761a192`
`Mr. CONYERS — 3 October 2008`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, today the House of Representatives will 
vote for the second time this week on Secretary Paulson's flawed 
bailout legislation. His plan lacks the


core principles needed to improve the economy. To be a viable plan, the 
legislation must include (1) enacting a moratorium on foreclosures, (2) 
restructuring mortgages to make them more affordable, and (3) 
prohibiting interest rate increases associated with subprime loans. 
These initiatives can be achieved without spending one dollar of the 
taxpayer's money. In addition, empowering the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation to guarantee all depositors and bond holders would provide 
immediate liquidity to credit markets.

If the Congress acts imprudently today, we may end up draining our 
national treasury of over $700 billion in resources without curing our 
economic ills. Such a decision could effectively tie the hands of the 
next President and kill universal health care and job programs before 
they are ever drafted.

I agree with former World Bank chief economist Joseph Stiglitz and 
other leading economists that action must be taken to tackle the 
problem posed by the tightening of the credit market. I simply disagree 
with the administration's proposed solution.

Although it hasn't been reported in the mainstream media, there are 
real legislative alternatives to this bailout that have been vetted by 
some of the best economic minds in the Congress.

One plan, offered by Representative Peter DeFazio and other members 
of the so-called ''Bailout Skeptics'' Caucus, proposes some common 
sense changes to Securities and Exchange Commission rules and Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation policies. I have cosponsored this 
legislation because I believe it will efficiently free-up capital, 
protect the taxpayer, and give the next President the fiscal 
flexibility he will need to address the dire problems brought about by 
the current economic slowdown.

Another plan, proposed by billionaire financier George Soros, mimics 
a successful model used in Norway and Sweden. The plan would inject 
credit into the markets in a direct and low-risk manner by empowering 
the Treasury Department to purchase preferred stock and discounted 
common stock from faltering lenders. I called for this type of direct 
capital deployment measure earlier this week, because it would provide 
the taxpayers with a tangible return on their investment and keep toxic 
mortgage-backed securities off the government's books.

On top of these plans, I and many of my progressive colleagues have 
continually advocated for bankruptcy reform that would give judges the 
freedom to renegotiate home mortgages during court proceedings. 
National Assistance Corporation of America CEO Bruce Marks and I agree 
that this reform is a necessary component of any bailout plan.

Most Americans have never heard of any of these alternative proposals 
because they have only been presented with a single, flawed narrative--
either accept this bailout plan or tempt economic catastrophe. This is 
a false choice that, unfortunately, has been successfully peddled by 
the President's fear-mongers and broadcast by a compliant media.

The tactic being used by Paulson creates an atmosphere of fear. The 
events of the last two weeks are reminiscent of the days leading up to 
the adoption of the Patriot Act, and to the invasion of Iraq--times 
where fear-mongering dampened the careful and deliberate consideration 
of alternative courses of action. This time, instead of scaring the 
American people with tales of weapons of mass destruction or planes 
piloted by terrorists, the President bullies the taxpayer with dire 
warnings of a credit freeze that will bring our economy to its knees.

There are serious options for dealing with this crisis that don't 
involve giving away billions to the richest, most irresponsible 
businessmen. My vote against the bailout today is not a do-nothing 
vote; it is a vote for a real solution. We cannot afford to repeat the 
mistakes of the past. Detroiters, Michiganders, Americans, and billions 
of people around the world are depending on us to get it right.