# DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL REPEAL ACT OF 2010
## `ce30738295d264e332709ab9156304eb`
`Ms. McCOLLUM — 18 December 2010`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 
2965, the Don't Ask Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010. This will be the 
second time this year that the House votes to repeal the military's 
''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' policy, and I urge my colleagues to support 
it.

Opponents of repeal are out of touch with the American people, out of 
touch with the American military, and out of excuses. For years, 
Republicans in the House and Senate have claimed that allowing gays and 
lesbians to serve openly would threaten unit cohesion. America's troops 
and military leaders disagree. In the Pentagon's comprehensive review 
of this issue, 70 percent of service members surveyed believed that 
repealing ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' would have no negative effect on 
the performance of their units. The military's top leaders, Secretary 
of Defense Robert Gates and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
Admiral Mike Mullen--both appointed by President Bush--have strongly 
advocated for repealing ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell.''

At a time when our military is fighting two wars, ''Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell'' is hampering our Armed Forces, and harming our national 
security. According to a GAO report, the military had discharged over 
750 mission-critical service members by 2003 because of ''Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell,'' including over 320 service members with language skills--
such as Arabic and Pashto--that are critical to our success in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. As reported by the Washington Post, there are an estimated 
66,000 gay Americans currently serving in the military; that's 66,000 
American troops who could be discharged tomorrow simply because they 
are gay.

Mr. Speaker, today I will vote to end a policy of open discrimination 
against a group of courageous Americans--men and women who proudly 
serve in the Armed Forces and put their lives on the line to defend our 
country. For thousands of gay and lesbian veterans who have been 
discharged from the military over the years, Congress has acted too 
late. Nonetheless, it is time to honor their service by providing a new 
generation of patriotic gay and lesbian Americans the opportunity to 
serve our country proudly and openly.

I urge my colleagues to join me in passing H.R. 2965, and I call upon 
Members of the Senate to do the right thing by repealing this 
destructive policy once and for all.
