# A NEW ENERGY POLICY FOR THE COUNTRY
## `ce4ee49f7b70ffc5aabd44e40e280b2f`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER â€” 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. Well, I'd like to go back to the gas prices.

You know, I think that the gas prices show the lack of an energy plan 
by the prior Republican Congress, by this White House, except to the 
degree that it has caused an increase in oil prices.

You know, we're in Iraq in a substantial way; and a lot of it, in my 
opinion, has to do with oil. Now, the average price per gallon of fuel 
paid by U.S. military units in Iraq is at least $3.23. The price per 
gallon of gasoline for Iraqi residents is $1.36. Why the difference 
there? Oil revenues for the Iraqi Government is expected to be $70 
billion, which should be paid back to this country when we are running 
a deficit. We're spending $2.5 to $3 billion a week to be in Iraq. And 
that obviously has had an effect on our economy over the course of 
these 5 years that we've been in Iraq.

We've got to change the direction of this Nation, Mr. Ellison. We're 
trying to do that every day. We need to change the direction when it 
comes to energy. We've got to change the direction when it comes to 
Iraq. We've been changing the direction when it comes to our veterans 
and living up to our contracts and responsibilities in terms of their 
benefits.

We're making a difference. We have a long way to go to really change 
the direction of this Nation. This country is in need of big change in 
a lot of ways. And I'm glad that I've been elected to the Congress by 
the people of the suburbs of Denver to try and institute some of that 
change.

And so with that, I would yield back to you, sir.