# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `ce50214f44f7e6ab912f21c205c5d002`
`Mr. DORGAN — 19 June 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, this is the right subject, this issue of 
alternative fuels. I commend all my colleagues for being here to talk 
about this important issue.

I have mentioned often on the floor of the Senate, we live on this 
little planet of ours, and on this planet we circle the Sun, and we 
happen to live on a little patch on this planet called the United 
States of America. A substantial amount of oil is used here. We use 
one-fourth of all the oil that is pulled out of this planet every 
single day. About 84 million gallons of fuel is pulled out of this 
planet every day, and we use one-fourth of it in this country.

Unfortunately, much of the resources--the oil resources--exist 
elsewhere. Over 60 percent of that which we use in oil comes from off 
our shores, much of it from very troubled parts of the world: Saudi 
Arabia, Kuwait, Venezuela, Iraq, Iran, and so on. In a circumstance 
where we have such a prodigious appetite for energy--oil in this case--
and so much of it exists off our shores, it makes us very vulnerable--
extraordinarily vulnerable.

If tomorrow, God forbid, terrorists should somehow interfere with the 
pipeline of oil to the United States of America, we would be flat on 
our back. Our economy would be flat on its back because we get up every 
single morning in this country and we pull the switch, we start the 
engine, we do all these things that heat the water for the shower and 
air-condition our home. We have such an unbelievable appetite for 
energy.

With respect to oil itself, we are held hostage by having so much of 
it coming from off our shores. Therefore, the question is, how do we 
become less dependent or how do we become independent of the Saudis or 
the Kuwaitis or others who have so much oil?

Is it a good thing for us to try to become independent? I think it 
is. So how do you do that? Well, you do that in a lot of ways, one of 
which--an important ''one of which''--is to develop renewable 
alternative fuels.

So we are talking about the biofuels. We are talking about ethanol. 
We are talking about a lot of different issues--cellulosic ethanol. 
Today on the floor of the Senate, we now talk about coal to liquid. 
Coal to liquid means taking coal and producing from it diesel fuel. 
That coal to diesel is another way of producing alternative fuels.

It is very important, however, for us, as we proceed down this road, 
to do this the right way. There is, perhaps, an easy way and a harder 
way to do it or a right way and a wrong way to do it, but all of us who 
come here talking about alternative fuels, I think, are talking about 
the right subject.

This issue of coal is very important. Coal is the most abundant 
resource that exists in this country. It is our most abundant. It is 
our most secure. It is here. It is the lowest cost American resource. 
It is estimated we have over 600 billion barrels of oil equivalent in 
coal. Compare that, for example, to the largest oil reserves in the 
world, which are held by the Saudis, estimated at about 260 billion 
barrels of oil. Again, the Saudis have the largest repository of oil we 
know of, estimated at about 260 billion barrels. Our coal has an oil 
equivalent of about 600 billion barrels.

Well, the question is: How do we use coal? Because coal has a carbon 
footprint, it has an impact on our environment. I am chairing the 
Energy and Water Subcommittee on Appropriations. In the accounts I am 
now working on with my colleagues, I am going to put a great deal of 
money into clean power and into clean coal technology so we can unlock 
the mysteries and find ways to continue to use our coal, our most 
abundant resource, without in any way injuring our environment. I 
believe we can do that. I am going to tell you in a minute an example 
in North Dakota that is occurring that holds great promise, in my 
judgment.

But we have a lot of experience in burning coal for electric 
generation to produce electricity. We have a good understanding of the 
challenges we face as a result of that with respect to carbon reduction 
in those plants, the coal-fired electric generating plants. We also 
have some experience turning coal into synthetic natural gas. The only 
plant in the United States in which lignite coal is taken out of the 
ground--coal is extracted from the ground and put in a processing plant 
to turn coal into synthetic natural gas the only circumstance in the 
country where that occurs is on the prairies of North Dakota. It is 
interesting that the coal gasification facility is really a technical 
marvel--a technological marvel, I should say. It is producing synthetic 
gas in a way that is exceeding expectations. It produces very valuable 
byproducts, and it does, in fact, produce CO2.


So in this coal gasification plant, with the production of 
CO2, which we don't want to admit in great quantities into 
the atmosphere because of climate change, we have done something that 
is really pretty interesting. We capture 5,500 tons a day of 
CO2 in that plant, put it in a pipe, and in that pipeline it 
is transported 205 miles north into Canada, where it is invested into 
the ground in Canadian oil wells to make marginal oil wells more 
productive. So we have beneficial use of sequestration of 
CO2 by piping it to Canada and investing it into the ground 
to essentially make their oil wells more productive. It has sequestered 
about 7 million tons of CO2 into the Weyburn Field since the 
start of the project in the year 2000. It has doubled the field's oil 
recovery rate and extended the life of the oilfield by 15 to 20 years. 
So you talk about beneficial use of CO2--first of all, 
capturing it, keeping it from escaping into the atmosphere, and second, 
using it for beneficial use. I think this is the largest example--the 
largest demonstration of that--in the entire world.

Now, the question before us today will be a couple of different 
presentations on coal to liquid. I support coal to liquid. I believe it 
is part of an alternative fuel strategy that makes sense for this 
country. But we come to an intersection with energy and climate change, 
energy and the environment. It is an intersection a lot of people would 
prefer not to approach, but nonetheless we are there. We can't pretend 
one doesn't exist. They both exist. They coexist. They have an impact 
on each other. The question of how we do coal to liquids is a very 
important question in the context of how we continue to use our 
abundant coal resource.

Some say the most beneficial use of coal is coal to synthetic natural 
gas. I have just described how that is being done. Some say another 
beneficial use of coal is coal to plastics. There are many ways and 
many approaches to use coal for beneficial use at the same time as we 
protect the environment.

We have examples in amendments being offered today of the requirement 
of not only life-cycle reductions in emissions--and I believe both of 
the amendments have equivalent life-cycle reductions in emissions, but 
only one has a carbon capture requirement, which I think, frankly, is 
going to be required as we move forward with coal to liquids. We might 
debate about where that carbon capture requirement ought to be 
established, under what conditions can it be met, but I don't think 
there is much choice that we, as we proceed with coal to liquids, 
establish a carbon capture standard. I believe the Tester amendment 
does that in a way that says, I think for many of us, we fully support 
coal to liquids. We also support all of the other technologies that 
provide for the beneficial use of coal, which includes, as I have just 
described, coal to plastics and coal to synthetic natural gas, and so 
on. But as we proceed with coal to liquids, it is very important that 
we capture and sequester CO2, just as we do in North Dakota 
with this synthetic natural gas plant.

Let me also point out that we have other ways of using coal--biomass 
co-fed with coal to produce liquids. We can actually take 
CO2 out of the atmosphere with that process. The plants 
would capture the CO2 as they grow, and that CO2 
would be captured in the gasification process, along with the 
CO2 from the coal. So it could be permanently sequestered in 
that circumstance. As a result, the overall carbon footprint for coal 
biomass to liquids would be better, for example, than with petroleum.

So there are so many different applications and different ways that I 
believe coal can play a very important


role in this country's future. As I indicated, I am going to be adding 
substantial funding with respect to clean coal technology and the 
research that is necessary to unlock the capability, the scientific 
capability, and technology to be able to continue to use our abundant 
coal resources long into the future.

It makes little difference if we have the equivalent of 600 billion 
barrels of oil in coal resources if we can't use them. To say we have 
reserves equivalent to 600 billion barrels of oil, if you can't use 
that coal, it means very little to this country's future. I believe, 
when you take a look at the most abundant resource, we need to be able 
to use it, but I also understand and believe we need to be able to use 
it in circumstances where we can produce in the future a coal-fired 
electric generating plant that is a zero-emission plant. I believe that 
is possible. Now, can we do it tomorrow? Probably not. But I believe 
that through technology, we can accomplish these things.

The same is true with respect to coal to liquids. I don't believe the 
debate among those of us who have spoken on this subject today is 
whether coal to liquids makes sense. It will contribute as a part of 
our alternative fuels to make us less dependent on foreign sources of 
oil, and that is something we should all aspire to have happen. But it 
will also, as we proceed in this direction, require us to have carbon 
capture and sequestration in a manner that is meaningful.

One of the amendments today will establish a 6-billion-gallon 
requirement. I believe essentially the same amendment a couple of weeks 
ago said it should be 21 billion barrels as a mandate or requirement. I 
don't know where those numbers come from. I just believe, as I think 
most who have spoken believe, that we have to move in the direction of 
making coal to liquid work in a way that is compatible with this 
country's environmental needs.

So I am going to support the Tester amendment. I hope that at the end 
of the day, we will have received a message here from the debate in 
this Congress that says: Yes, alternative fuels make sense; coal to 
liquids makes sense; so, too, do carbon sequestration and carbon 
capture.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.