# SCHEDULE
## `ce5641f6f501272b28781e1058b355b4`
`Mr. REID â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, the Senate will begin morning business in 
just a few minutes, with the time until 2 p.m. equally divided and 
controlled between the two leaders or their designees. The first 30 
minutes this morning will be controlled by the minority, and then the 
majority will control, of course, the next 30 minutes. We are going to 
do the best we can to alternate back and forth.

Yesterday, we had a nice debate. When a Democrat wasn't here, a 
Republican moved in and vice versa. It worked out well with the time.

I announced last night that I intended to have the Senate proceed 
this afternoon to executive session to consider a number of Executive 
Calendar nominations. I had spoken to the Republican leader prior to 
making that announcement and told him I wanted to consider GEN George 
Casey and ADM William Fallon to be voted on today or tomorrow. I expect 
there will be debate with respect to the Casey nomination. We have had 
word that on the minority side there are a number of statements they 
wish to have made, and I am confident there will be some over here, 
also. We will make a decision at a later time whether we should have 
time agreements or just move forward with these.

Let me just say a few words about what is going on in the Senate and 
has been going on over the last few days. As we all know, the 
President, in giving a speech, said he wanted to move a significant 
number more of American troops to Iraq. As a result of that, there have 
been efforts made to have the Senate vote on whether that is 
appropriate. We have been unable to arrive at that point, which is 
somewhat surprising because the people who helped write the amendment 
voted against proceeding to debate on that amendment. People whose 
names are associated with that amendment decided not to proceed to vote 
on that amendment.

I think it speaks volumes that there has been almost nothing said by 
the minority about supporting the surge. There have been no speeches 
over here supporting the surge. In fact, late yesterday there was a 
proposal to not even have a vote on supporting the surge.

That is where we are. The House is going to take up this matter next 
week. They will send this over to us, and in due time we will try to 
get to this matter. But it is pretty clear that one reason for the 
slowdown here is to allow the President to move troops over there. The 
more troops moved over there prior to this vote, the more difficult it 
is to say don't send the troops--when he has already sent them. But 
there are other ways to approach this issue in Iraq.

Just a matter of hours ago, a Sea Knight helicopter was shot down 
over Baghdad, the fifth helicopter shot down in the last 2 weeks. We 
don't know how many Americans are dead in this latest incident. We do 
not know because the military has not announced it. We do know these 
Sea Knight helicopters--they are called CH-46s--are used by the Marines 
primarily as a cargo and troop transport, and they carry as many as 25 
combat-loaded troops.

We also know that the administration submitted its budget, requesting 
another $245 billion in the war in Iraq and other matters relating to 
the military, bringing the total to well over


$500 billion. In fact, we learned yesterday that the United States had 
shipped money to Mr. Bremer, Ambassador Bremer, to disburse money to 
Iraqi ministries. How much money? It was 363 tons of money in hundred-
dollar bills--363 tons. There is some dispute as to how many hundred-
dollar bills it takes to make 363 tons, and they really don't know 
exactly how much money that is, but it is around $12 billion, most of 
which is not accounted for. I guess $12 billion, when you compare it to 
$500 billion, is not very much, but I think the American people 
understand that 363 tons of cash, hundred-dollar bills, is a lot of 
money.


We also know from reading the morning paper that the Associated Press 
reports:




 More Americans have been killed in combat in Iraq over the 


 last 4 months than in any comparable stretch since the war 


 began.


To say the war isn't going well is an understatement. To say there is 
a civil war going on in Iraq is an understatement. I really think it is 
unfortunate that we have been unable to vote on whether the surge 
should take place. Senators have not been allowed to cast their vote on 
this issue, and because of that, we are going to move on to the 
continuing resolution this afternoon--late this evening, I should say, 
after we finish these two important Executive Calendar matters.
