---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `ce6a70b574de0dd7d4fab2477d4736ed`
`Ms. LEE — 19 December 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Let me thank the gentleman for his leadership and for 
yielding.

Here we go again, another payment on a war that should not have been 
fought and an occupation that keeps our young men and women in harm's 
way. By forcing Congress to tie the fate of spending for critical 
domestic programs to Iraq funding, this President held these programs 
hostage just to prop up his failed policy. This is not only shameful, 
it is unacceptable. The American people want our troops and our 
contractors home.

A recent CNN poll found that 69 percent of respondents favored 
withdrawing all of our troops from Iraq. Nearly half believe that our 
troops should be home in under 1 year.

The only funds that we should be giving this President today should 
be to protect our troops and our contractors and to bring them home in 
a safe and timely and orderly fashion, in other words, what we tried to 
do several weeks ago, and, that is, fully fund the redeployment of our 
troops and military contractors from Iraq. And we should be using this 
opportunity to shore up vital programs such as our poverty elimination 
efforts, vital HIV/AIDS programs, both domestic and international, and 
providing health care for all, which we tried to do in the 
Appropriations Committee under Chairman Obey but which the President, 
unfortunately, threatened to veto. Now, Congress, this body, once again 
is complicit in the President's games. And these are war games that he 
is playing.

Why in the world are we going to put another payment down on this war 
that should have ended? Actually, it should have never started. So 
let's vote ''no'' on this. His inflexibility, the President's 
inflexibility, this House, this body's inflexibility has already cost 
America too much in terms of lives, in terms of treasure, in terms of 
our standing in the world, and in terms of our national security.