---
---

# IRAQ
## `ce76bf2b6163517919d97d2e5922bef8`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President, I rise for a few moments to address the 
subjects that have been discussed for the last 30 minutes. First of 
all, I rise in particular to lend my support to Senator McConnell who 
has seen to it that the Senate is able to fully express itself on the 
issues before us in Iraq. No one should be confused about this debate. 
There are many opinions here, and every one of them deserves the right 
to be expressed.

Secondly, I rise in support of the President's plan, and I am going 
to explain why in just a second. First, however, the Senator from New 
York made a statement a minute ago that I want to open my remarks with.

The Senator from New York said not many people are paying attention 
to what we debate on the floor of the Senate, that they are too busy 
working in their daily lives. That may very well be right, but I want 
to tell you who is listening to every word. First, it is the men and 
women in our Armed Forces, their families, and their loved ones. All 
you have to do is go to Iraq, where I have been many times, go to any 
mess hall or almost any command post, and CNN and Fox are streaming 
constantly. Our men and women watch what we say, so what we say on this 
floor is important. The resolutions we send, binding or not, should not 
send mixed signals.

There is another audience that listens to what we say, and they are 
our enemies. They listen as well. Those networks are their intelligence 
agencies. The messages we send should not be a message which relays a 
lack of confidence to our troops or to our Commander in Chief.

I am on the Foreign Relations Committee. I have spent 20 of the last 
28 hours of committee meetings listening to experts from a variety of 
resources, and two things became quite clear. There were varying 
opinions on whether a surge would work. Some thought it would 
conclusively; many thought it would not. Most gave it varying degrees 
of potential success. Without exception, however, everyone I heard 
testify, when asked the question: What would be the ramifications of 
withdrawal or redeployment, everyone, in one degree or another, said 
there would be tens of thousands of lives lost, and possibly millions, 
and the sectarian violence that we are trying to quell now could spread 
through the region.

The way I see it, we have two choices right now at this stage of the 
game. Choice one is an opportunity for success. Choice two is a recipe 
for disaster. I choose the opportunity for success. I think the message 
we ought to send to our troops is that we support them, we wish them 
Godspeed, and we pray for their success.



A second message we need to send, which this debate has very 
helpfully done, is a message to al-Malaki and the assembly in Iraq and 
the people of Iraq that we came to their country with three objectives, 
two of which we have secured. One objective was to seek out the weapons 
of mass destruction the entire world believed were there. Second was to 
allow a constitution to be written and a free election to be held. Both 
of those things have been accomplished.

The last most elusive goal that we had was to secure the nation and 
train the Iraqi military so it could carry on that security and let 
that fledgling democracy go forward. That third goal, which has been 
elusive, has gotten closer. The President's strategy to send additional 
troops to Anbar and to Baghdad requires the absolute cooperation of the 
Iraqis and the commitment of their military to assist side by side. If 
they blink and look the other way, they will have failed themselves. If 
we blink and we look the other way, we will have failed not only them 
but we will have failed the people of our country.

Make no mistake about it, the war in Iraq that we are now in is not 
the war we entered, but it is the war we are in, and those are the 
words of our President. Regardless of where mistakes may have been 
made, those of us, and I am one of those, who voted to support this 
when we went into Iraq did not vote for failure. I hope and I pray that 
our soldiers will be successful, that al-Malaki and the Iraqi military 
will come through and perform, and I am going to do everything I can to 
give them that support because I choose an opportunity for success over 
a recipe for failure.

With regard to the mistakes that have been made, I want to be crystal 
clear because there are some awfully selective memories on the floor of 
the Senate. I remember what I believed when I voted to go into Iraq. I 
remember what the National Intelligence Estimate said. And I remember 
the horror of 9/11 and the fear of weapons of mass destruction. We 
voted to do what every other member of the United Nations voted on in 
Resolution 1441, and that was to seek out what the world thought was 
there. While we didn't find the smoking gun, we found a lot of the 
components and a lot of the evidence. We found the 400,000 bodies in 
mass graves and the tyranny of a horrible dictator in Saddam Hussein. 
We accomplished our goal of deposing him and allowing the Iraqis to 
determine a free democratic society.

In the critical days of this battle, it is time for us to stand 
forward and stand strong and give this opportunity for success that the 
President has proposed a chance to succeed, rather than subscribe to a 
recipe of failure. These are trying times, and I respect the opinions 
of every Member of this body expressed on this floor, but remember who 
our audiences are and how important it is that the message that we send 
not be mixed, not be one of a political message but be a message of 
commitment and resolve.

I will support the President not out of partisanship, not out of 
blind loyalty, but I will support the President because the evidence 
submitted in all of the hearings in the Foreign Relations Committee 
told me we have two choices: We can choose an opportunity to succeed or 
we can subscribe to a recipe for failure. I choose success, and I pray 
God's blessings on our men and women in the Armed Forces of the United 
States.

Madam President, I yield the floor.