---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `ce860141d344c6d1fa6ad5e1553deab4`
`Mr. McCAIN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I rise to oppose the amendment offered 
by my good friend from Wisconsin. I would prefer to be discussing other 
reform issues with him than this one, but this is an important 
amendment.

As usual, the Senator from Wisconsin makes a passionate and 
persuasive case. Unfortunately, the pending amendment would mandate a 
withdrawal of U.S. combat forces within 90 days of enactment and cut 
off funds for our troops in Iraq after June 30, 2008. One exception 
would be for a small force authorized only to carry out narrowly 
defined missions.

The Senate, once again, faces a simple choice: Do we build on the 
successes of our new strategy and give General Petraeus and the troops 
under his command the time and support needed to carry out their 
mission or do we ignore the realities on the ground and legislate a 
premature end to our efforts in Iraq, accepting thereby all the 
terrible consequences that will ensue? That is the choice we must make, 
and though politics and popular opinion may be pushing us in one 
direction, we have a greater responsibility, in my view, a duty to make 
decisions with the security of this great and good Nation foremost in 
our minds.

We now have the benefit of the long-anticipated testimony delivered 
by General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker, testimony that reported 
unambiguously that the new strategy is succeeding in Iraq. 
Understanding what we know now--that our military is making progress on 
the ground and that their commanders request from us the time and 
support necessary to succeed in Iraq--it is inconceivable that we in 
Congress would end this strategy just as it is beginning to show real 
results.

We see today that after nearly 4 years of mismanaged war, the 
situation on the ground in Iraq is showing demonstrable signs of 
progress. The final reinforcements needed to implement General 
Petraeus's new counterinsurgency plan have been in place for over 2 
months, and our military, in cooperation with the Iraqi security 
forces, is making significant gains in a number of areas.

General Petraeus reported in detail on these gains during his 
testimony in both Houses and in countless interviews. The No. 2 U.S. 
commander in Iraq, GEN Ray Odierno, said today--Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent to have printed in the Record an article today by AP 
concerning General Odierno's comments saying ''that a seven-month old 
security operation has reduced violence by 50 percent in Baghdad but he 
acknowledged that civilians were still dying at too high a rate.''