---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `ce878360f975c0f01223776e456644f6`
`Ms. RICHARDSON — 28 May 2010`

---


Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong support of H.R. 5136, the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011,'' which 
provides $726 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense 
and the national security programs of the Department of Energy.

I thank Chairman Skelton for his masterful leadership in bringing 
this legislation to the floor.

Mr. Chair, I support this bill for three reasons: (1) it restores and 
enhances the readiness of our troops, equipment, and defense 
infrastructure; (2) it takes care of our military personnel and their 
families; and (3) it authorizes the needed investments to keep our 
nation strong, safe, and respected in the world.

Let me briefly highlight some of the key provisions. This 
legislation:












 troop and equipment readiness


Provides $1.2 billion for projects in Afghanistan to allow our 
commanders on the ground to immediately respond to military 
construction needs in theater.

Authorizes $13.6 billion for the training of all active duty and 
reserve forces to increase readiness as troops experience greater dwell 
time following the Iraq drawdown.

Authorizes $345 million to fully fund the first increment of 
construction funds to modernize DOD schools.

Authorizes $9.7 billion to fully fund day-to-day maintenance 
requirements of DOD facilities.

Provides a total of $7.2 billion for the National Guard and Reserve, 
including $700 million above the budget request.

