# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011--MOTION TO
## `ce9074a40999a8023ec9b769307de931`
`Mr. REID — 9 December 2010`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, discrimination has never served America very 
well. When it applies to those who serve America in the Armed Forces, 
it is both disgraceful and counterproductive.

The theory behind don't ask, don't tell is a thing that happened way 
in the past. The theory behind this should be a thing of the past, and 
we should put the policy behind us. It is obsolete, it is embarrassing, 
and it weakens our military and offends the very values we ask our 
troops to defend. We need to match our policy with our principle and 
finally say that in the United States, everyone who steps up to serve 
our country should be welcomed. That is the only argument that is right 
and it should be enough.



That is not the only reason we should repeal it. Repealing it will 
make our military stronger. It doesn't make America safer to discharge 
troops with critically needed skills, and that is exactly what has 
happened. This policy is responsible for the discharge of about 14,000 
highly qualified service men and women--people whom we have spent 
millions of dollars training--and we never will know how many wanted to 
sign up but stayed away because of don't ask, don't tell. It doesn't 
make us stronger to limit military readiness of an all-volunteer force. 
Don't ask, don't tell doesn't help morale; it hurts morale.

The other side may feel passionately that our military should 
sanction discrimination based on sexual orientation, but they are 
clearly in the minority and they have run out of excuses. The Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff supports repealing it. So does the 
Secretary of Defense. The vast majority of the military say that it 
would not oppose repeal. The majority of Americans support repealing it 
too. There is simply no evidence and no justification--legal, military, 
or otherwise--for keeping this policy in place. There is no reason to 
keep America's citizens from fighting for a country they love because 
of whom they love.

The next Speaker of the House has asked why we would get into this 
debate. He said, Why should we get into this debate during a time of 
two wars and ongoing security concerns? I think wartime is exactly the 
right time to do everything we can to strengthen our military. It 
couldn't be a better time.

What opponents of don't ask, don't tell don't want to ask is what 
this policy tells us about equality between our principle and our 
practice. We can no longer ask our troops to die for a flag that 
represents justice and ask them to be false to themselves while they do 
it.

The other side knows it doesn't have the votes to take this repeal 
out of the Defense Authorization Act, so they have been holding up this 
bill for a long time--for months. And the latest--the Chair certainly 
has known about it--is a letter from 42 Senators in a further effort to 
stall this legislation, saying we have to finish the tax bill and we 
have to finish the spending bill before you can do anything of a 
legislative nature. What kind of sense is that, when we are so crammed 
with things to do? With all the things we have to do, why would they do 
that, other than simply trying to avoid it, and they have been doing it 
for a long time. We tried every possible way to move forward. When they 
refuse to debate it, they also hold up the other good and important, 
urgently needed parts of the bill. It is not only don't ask, don't 
tell.

The bill before us contains an across-the-board pay raise for all of 
the members of the military. More than that, we authorized over 35 
different bonuses and special pay incentives that our troops depend on 
to make ends meet. Let me be clear: Failure to pass this bill means our 
troops will lose these benefits.

The chairman of the Armed Services Committee was on the floor today 
saying if we don't do it today, we can't do it. In fact, everyone knows 
they have stalled this so long, they have stalled this so long that 
meeting cloture--the average time for a conference committee on this 
bill is 70 days--70 days; not 7, 70 days.

The bill also contains provisions that would expand health care for 
troops and their families and significantly enhance mental health care 
for servicemembers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. It would fund 
critical troop protection needs such as MRAPs and up-armored humvees, 
which are desperately needed on the battlefield. It would support 
critical missions in Afghanistan, including expanding intelligence 
collection efforts, disrupting Taliban finances, and building the 
Afghan National Army so that Afghanistan can take responsibility for 
its own security. These are not minor or unimportant issues. These are 
life-and-death matters for real Americans risking their lives for us, 
for our defense. We ask our troops to trust us and fight for us and be 
brave enough to stand in the line of fire. When we send our troops into 
battle, we do so because we believe strongly that we stand on the right 
side of history. We have to believe that, because we know the 
consequences of war and the terrible burdens it carries.

Not far from here--I hope the Presiding Officer has the opportunity 
to see this during his tenure here in the Senate--is the Congressional 
Cemetery. It is worth going and seeing. It is 2 miles southeast of 
where we stand right now on the banks of the Anacostia River. It is a 
final resting place of veterans of every war this Nation has ever 
fought. It is not Arlington. It is the Congressional Cemetery. It is 
also where 19 U.S. Senators, more than 70 Congressmen, a former Speaker 
of the House, and a former Vice President are buried. One tombstone 
there belongs to an Air Force sergeant who fought in Vietnam. He became 
famous shortly after that war ended when he tried to be in the military 
and out of the closet at the same time.

He lost that fight. His tombstone at Congressional Cemetery reads as 
follows:




 When I was in the military, they gave me a medal for 


 killing two men and a discharge for loving one.


America is better than that. When it comes to equality in the 
military, we know which side is the right side of history. The only 
question is whether we are brave enough to stand there.

In a few moments, I will move to reconsider the motion to proceed to 
this bill. This legislation is critical for our troops, and it is 
unconscionable to leave here without passing it. I bent over backward 
to find a way to get this bill done. It is clear that Republicans--a 
few of them--don't want to vote on repealing don't ask, don't tell. 
They are all doing what they can to stand in the way of the bill. They 
want to block a vote on this issue at all costs, even if it means we do 
not pass the Defense authorization bill for the first time in 48 years, 
even if it means our troops don't get the funding and protections they 
need.

What we have gone through to try to get this bill on the floor 
reminds me of a story--it is not a story; it is an experience I had as 
a boy. I don't know how old I was. Let's say I was about 11. As 
everyone knows now, I was born in a little town on the southeastern tip 
of Nevada. I never traveled anyplace. I was a teenager before I went to 
Needles, CA, which was about 50 miles from Searchlight.

My brother, 10 years older than I, got out of high school and got a 
job in Ash Fork, AZ, working for Standard stations. It was a big deal 
that he was going to take his little brother there to spend a week. I 
was excited. It was wonderful. Ash Fork was quite a ways from 
Searchlight--a couple hundred miles. But the reason I am telling you 
this story is that my brother was busy after work with his girlfriend--
more so than with his little brother--so he palmed me off a lot of the 
time on his girlfriend's brother, who was a little bit older than I. 
There wasn't a thing in the world her little brother could do as well 
as I could. In all the games we would play, do you know something? I 
never won a single game. Why? Because he kept changing the rules during 
the game. It didn't matter what the game was, he kept changing the 
rules. So I was always the loser.

Well, that is what is happening here on this bill. It doesn't matter 
what I do; before we get to the end of it, they change the rules again. 
How about four amendments--two on each side? No. Anyway, we have gone 
through all these different iterations and everything. No, we can't do 
it.

I have already tried to bring this bill to the floor twice this year. 
In fact, I offered to bring it up this summer, with no restrictions, 
but the Republicans refused this request. It is just like I talked 
about my trip to Ash Fork, AZ, where I could not win because the rules 
kept being changed--because my friends on the other side of the aisle 
blocked both of these attempts. Now we are trying to get this bill done 
in a lameduck session when everybody knows we have so much to do and we 
don't have time for unlimited debate. Some of the requests have been 
really unusual. Seven days of debate. Think about that. Seven days of 
debate in a lameduck session. I have tried my best to find a way 
forward that would ensure a fair and reasonable opportunity for 
colleagues on the other side to offer and vote on amendments.

Over the last 20 years, we have had rollcall votes on an average of 
12 amendments during consideration of the Defense authorization bill. 
So in an


effort to be as fair as possible, I have made it clear to my colleagues 
that I am willing to vote on 15 relevant amendments, 10 from the 
Republicans and 5 from the Democratic side--some Democrats don't like 
that, but we would do it--with ample time for debate on each amendment, 
but we never can get enough time. We started out with an hour, but that 
is not enough. My colleagues on this side of the aisle are demanding 
even more time--time they know is not available. There are not enough 
days in this calendar year to do what the minority is asking, and they 
know this. They want the tax and the spending bills done first, as we 
have talked about. At the same time they say we need to wait, they say 
they need as much time as possible to consider the bill. It is 
impossible to do both. It is illogical and unreasonable. It is quite 
clear that they are trying to run out the clock. Senator Levin said 
here this morning that they probably would have done it anyway. That is 
too bad.

I want to be clear that my remarks should in no way be taken as a 
criticism of my colleague from Maine, Senator Collins. Quite the 
contrary. She has tried. I have respect for her, and I have worked with 
her as the only Republican on a number of occasions--and two or three 
others on occasion--to try to move forward on many of the Nation's top 
priorities. I believe she has been doing her very best. But for her I 
would not have been able to get any of these arrangements that they 
turned down. At the same time, members of her caucus are working 
equally as hard to defeat this measure at all costs.

In my effort to get this done, I don't know how I could have been 
more reasonable. Despite the critical importance for our troops, for 
our Nation, and for justice that we get this bill done, we have not 
been able to reach an agreement. I regret that our troops will pay the 
price for our inability.

I now move to reconsider the vote that has previously been made on 
this matter.