---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ce95a7d0003c30134b5483280d2d8673`
`Mr. MILLER of North Carolina — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. MILLER of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, like most Members of 
Congress, I have visited our men and women in uniform in Iraq. I have 
visited our wounded in the hospital at Ramstein Air Force Base in 
Germany and at the hospital in Balad Air Base in Iraq; and I have 
offered my condolences to grieving families who have lost loved ones in 
Iraq. I respect and appreciate our men and women in uniform in Iraq. 
They have served nobly, and they deserve our prayers.

Mr. Speaker, they have done their duty, and now we must do our duty. 
Our duty to the Constitution, our duty to our country, our duty to our 
men and women in uniform is to look with clear eyes at the facts and to 
exercise independent judgment.

For 4 years, this Congress has failed in that duty. For 4 years, this 
Congress has passed one resolution after another, offering uncritical 
support for the President's policies in Iraq.

In June, Congress passed a resolution finding that we were well along 
the path to a sovereign, free, secure and united Iraq and the Iraqi 
Security Forces were operating independently of our forces and were 
increasingly leading the fight to secure Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, that is what Republicans did when they were in the 
majority. They played make believe.

Americans knew better then, and we certainly know better down. The 
Iraqi Study Group report, just a couple of months ago, described the 
situation in Iraq as grave and deteriorating. The most recent National 
Intelligence Estimate, just a week ago, described the


situation in even starker terms, ''The violence is now feeding on 
itself, and it is too complex to be called simply a civil war.'' The 
estimate concluded that all of the likely outcomes are grim.

For 4 years, patriotic Americans, Democrats and Republicans alike, 
have anguished over events in Iraq and have given deep and prayerful 
thought to alternatives, but the Bush Administration dismissed and 
insulted dissenters and often made fierce attempts to discredit them.

Not even General Eric Shinseki, the Army Chief of Staff, or James 
Baker, Secretary of State for the first President Bush, was spared; and 
the Bush administration has treated criticism by Members of Congress as 
meddling, as sticking our nose in their war.

House Democrats have offered plan after plan to alter our course in 
Iraq, and House Republicans have greeted every plan with strident 
attack.

Let's consider the new plan that President Bush has proposed.

The force initially committed to Iraq was well short of what General 
Shinseki said would be required to secure the country. When I visited 
Iraq 3 years ago, the presence of our forces in Baghdad may not have 
been enough to secure order, but it was more than enough to remind 
every Iraqi every day that there was a foreign army on their soil.

When I visited Iraq a year and a half ago, our military forces in 
Baghdad were less noticeable. Our briefing officer explained that we 
had deliberately reduced our footprint to lessen the resentment of 
Iraqis so that Iraqis would come into daily contact with Iraqi security 
forces, not our men and women. But the violence only increased.

We tried twice last year to reduce the violence by increasing Iraqi 
and American forces in Baghdad. The Iraqi forces didn't show up, and 
twice the effort failed, and violence has continued to increase.

Now we are trying it again and calling it a new plan: Less troops, 
more troops, less troops, more troops. House Republicans are playing 
make believe again to call that a new plan.

The apocalyptic violence in Iraq will not be solved militarily. 
Congressman David Price and I introduced a resolution setting forth a 
comprehensive plan which Mr. Price described here the other day. We 
need to engage Iraq's neighbors through regional diplomacy to provide 
economic assistance, conditioned on a genuine attempt at national 
reconciliation, and to begin a phased withdrawal of our troops. Our 
plan includes many of the suggestions of the Iraq Study Group.

The Iraq Study Group report was right: No path is certain of success. 
And after 4 years of failed policy, all of our options are grim. But 
the resolution we will vote on shortly is a first step toward doing our 
duty by looking realistically at events in Iraq and by forcing us to 
consider what our options really are.