---
---

# THE ECONOMY
## `ceaf7c24fe1164a87c2ffa8b66abd08a`
`Mr. YARMUTH â€” 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. I thank my good friend for yielding.

And you raised a very important point, and that is that while much of 
the headlines today talk about a recession and the debate over whether 
we are technically in a rescission, those of us who campaigned in 2006 
and were talking to our constituents at that point knew that this was 
on the way. We saw the gathering storm, if you will. We saw the ripples 
in the ocean that became the tsunami. We talked to our constituents. We 
knew that they were hurting. We knew that their standard of living was 
not increasing even though they were working harder and harder. We knew 
they were scared about their retirement and scared about their ability 
to afford health care. That's what I heard throughout my campaign in 
2006.

Yes, people were concerned about the war in Iraq. But, Mr. Speaker, 
that wasn't really what they were talking about on a day-to-day basis. 
It was, ''I'm really having a hard time.'' And while the President 
wasn't talking about it at that time and the majority leaders and the 
majority party in the Congress weren't talking about it, they were 
talking about it. They were saying, My friend, his company just went 
out of business or his plant was moved overseas and he had a pension 
that had accumulated $150,000 and now it was down to $30,000 because 
his company hadn't adequately funded it; so now what's he going to do? 
So we heard these problems day after day after day.

And I'm proud to say that when we came to the Congress in January, 
2007, we didn't wait for somebody to declare that there was a 
recession. We started immediately. We said the middle class is hurting. 
We have people at the very lowest ends of the income scale who are 
working very hard, who are working at or near minimum wage, and we 
haven't raised the minimum wage in 10 years in this Congress. That's an 
outrage. And within the first few days of this 110th Congress, we 
raised the minimum wage. We put it on track to get to the point where, 
hopefully, there will be a living wage for everyone who works in this 
country.

And we set about looking at college costs. We said that college costs 
have been inflating at a very, very dramatically high rate, in my State 
8 or 9 percent each year for the last 4 or 5 years. People trying to 
put their kids through college or people trying to put themselves 
through college are having a harder and harder time. No increase in the 
amount of financial aid that was available. No increase in the Pell 
grants. We passed the College Cost Reduction Act, $21 billion in 
additional aid to help college students get their degrees. So we 
understood the problem. We were dealing with it early on.

It has not been an easy fight. It has not been an easy fight because 
we have an administration that has this theory that the marketplace is 
sacrosanct, that it's infallible, that nothing ever goes wrong, that 
everything will even out, and that we just need to get out of the way. 
We just need to get out of the way and let these big corporations do 
whatever they want to do because the marketplace will force them into 
doing the right thing. And we now, of course, know that's not the case. 
We now, of course, know that, as we looked at, in kind of the aftermath 
of the Bear Stearns situation, an astounding fact coming from Wall 
Street that one-third of all the income in New York City was on Wall 
Street. One-third. The average wage, including all of the clerical help 
and all of the support staff on Wall Street, was $380,000 a year. Those 
are enormous salaries. And when something goes bad to deflate that 
bubble, it doesn't just hurt those people, as we have seen; it ripples 
through the entire economy.


So, yes, we have some problems that have just hit us now because, 
again, the bubble has burst. But it wasn't that we were asleep at the 
switch because, again, we heard these complaints, we sensed these 
signals 2 years ago when we were out in the campaign trail. I certainly 
did in my community, a wonderful community that never quite experiences 
all the booms but never has the busts. We have two Ford plants making 
vehicles that consume a lot of gas. There's a lot of stress on those 
because sales are down for those vehicles. We knew that then. We knew 
that they were negotiating constantly, the company with the union, 
trying to drive those wages down. People who were making $25, $30 an 
hour negotiated down so that they were making $15 an hour because they 
said that they're having hard times, that the company is


suffering. Well, yes, we know the company is suffering. But, meanwhile, 
the same people doing the same hard work day after day with the same 
expenses, the same obligations in their life, and now their income has 
been cut by 10, 20, 30 percent.

So we have been at this battle for now 15 months, since we have been 
in Congress, and we are going to stay in this battle because this is a 
battle for the very essence of American society. And I'm very proud to 
be part of a Congress that is committed to making sure that this 
economy works for every American and not just for the very elite 
Americans. And that's why I came to Congress. That's why my colleagues 
came to Congress. And I think over time, given the commitment that we 
have, we are going to make a difference for the American people.