---
---

# RECOGNIZING 235TH BIRTHDAY OF U.S. ARMY
## `ced422b3948f3f0e0225938e34a675a7`
`Mr. CARTER — 16 June 2010`

---


Mr. CARTER. I thank my friend from Hawaii for yielding, and I thank 
him for the opportunity to speak on behalf of this important honor we 
are bestowing upon the Army by congratulating them on their 235th 
birthday.

The first time that I ever realized I was going to be given the honor 
to represent the United States Army was when they had a redistricting 
in Texas and I realized that my new district was going to have Fort 
Hood in it. To be quite honest, it was an overpowering challenge to be 
called upon to represent over 50,000 American soldiers and all those 
who work with those soldiers. I was a little bit taken aback, quite 
frankly. Mr. Edwards, as he pointed out, who has been so helpful to me 
in the transition of Fort Hood, Mr. Edwards had represented them for 
many years and had done an outstanding job, and I was going to be the 
new kid on the block going to Fort Hood. And so I went to my office and 
I said, the districts are changing, we've got to go visit soldiers, 
we've got to be with soldiers.

I got the opportunity through the Speaker's Office before I had 
hardly spent any time at all in Fort Hood to go to Korea to visit 
soldiers who were stationed in Korea, many of whom were part of the 
soldiers contingency that would return to Fort Hood. I grew up as a 
small child with what was earlier today commemorated as the Korean War. 
To me it was just a map of the peninsula of Korea that I watched lines 
move up and down, but I know from people who came back what a terrible 
fight that was. And I know that that is still, to this day, to this 
very moment we stand in history, a dangerous place on the Earth.

When we got there, we were given the opportunity, my wife and I, to 
go up on the demilitarized zone, the DMZ, where ultimately, as a result 
of the cease fire that took place in Korea, they have set up--both 
sides, you're kind of across a line looking at each other. In fact, as 
recently as 4 or 5 years ago, there have been fatalities on that line. 
There is the opportunity for another war to break out, theoretically, 
any minute of any day, 24 hours a day and has been since the end of the 
Korean War back in the fifties. So it was kind of a challenge just to 
go up there.

Then when I got there, there were all these young-faced American 
soldiers. My oldest son is a football coach and a baseball coach, and 
as I looked at these young men and women that I was being introduced 
to; they looked just like the kids that were at the graduation ceremony 
just a few months earlier that my son coached and taught.

When it came time for lunch, they gave me an opportunity to sit down 
at this table with this bunch of young men and women. I tell you this 
because it was kind of unusual, my first time to ever sit down with 
just ordinary soldiers and talk to them. And you don't really know what 
they're going to say; you're kind of curious. Well, the first thing I 
found out was there was one kid there from Killeen Ellison; he played 
football for my son when my son coached at Killeen Ellison. There was 
another kid there that played baseball for my son when he coached at 
Round Rock High School. So I realized that these were just like those 
kids that had just graduated.

I went around the table, and this was all a bunch of 18- and 19-year-
old soldiers. They came from small-town and big-town America. They 
could have been your friend, your neighbor, your cousin, could have 
been your brother or your sister. And there they were, standing up 
there, potentially in harm's way on our behalf, where it's cold and 
windy and kind of scary.

So that was my first contact. And I asked the question, kind of 
naively, Okay, so when are you guys going to be through over here in 
Korea? Most of them were going to be out within the next 8 months. And 
I said, Where do you want to go when you get out, expecting all kinds 
of exotic places. No, sir, we want to go to either Afghanistan or Iraq. 
My wife and I both were a little taken aback by that. And so my wife 
asked the question, Why would you want to go there? And they gave an 
answer that is one of the definitions I think of the United States 
Army, they said, Sir, we're warfighters; that's where the war is. 
That's what we do for a living. We are the Army.

Now, you hear that from a 19-year-old kid that probably a year and a 
half ago had been playing on some practice field someplace in central 
Texas and you say to yourself, what magic is it that we get people like 
this to come out and do this job and do it willingly and with such 
patriotism and such fervor for doing the job they're trained for?

Just recently, less than a few weeks ago--and I shared this at the 
birthday party for the Army last night--my wife and I got a very nice 
honor of being part of a small delegation of Members of Congress who 
were invited to go to the Memorial Day ceremony at Normandy Beach where 
our soldiers came ashore and accomplished the impossible. In fact, we 
stood on Pointe du Hoc, as Mr. Edwards was describing to you, and we 
looked at those cliffs and we looked at the repair being done to 
preserve that national treasure of our heroic effort.

We got to see that beach both at high and low tide, and we got to see 
the distance those soldiers had to run under heavy, heavy, heavy 
automatic weapon fire and artillery fire just to get to that bluff that 
they had to climb to get to the fight. You looked at it and you said, I 
don't think I could have done it. That is what I thought: I don't think 
I could have done it. And then you realize that that's the same kids, 
like the same kids I talked to in Korea. They were young people who 
were members of the United States Army; they had a job to do and they 
did it.

They told us a story about a soldier who landed there, fought his way 
across the beach to the bluff, fought his way up the bluff to get off 
of that deadly beach only to be wounded in the face--took off the right 
side of his face with a machine gun bullet. They wrapped him up on the 
top of the bluff and said you need to go back down on the beach for an 
aid station. And his comment was, I just fought my way off of that 
beach. And they said, no, you've got to be evacuated. Going back down 
to be evacuated he was shot four more times, the last of which took off 
the left side of his face. And his comment that he made when he came 
back to Normandy as a 90-year-old man--and they said he looked fine, he 
said they did a fine job on me and I looked good. I have children, I 
have grandchildren and I have great grandchildren, and I


did what I did for them. And I can say that I always wondered if I 
really ought to come to this beach because I was only here for 9 hours. 
True, I did get five Purple Hearts while I was here, but I wondered if 
I was worthy to come back and say I landed here, because I had to be 
evacuated.


That special something that makes up the United States Army can't be 
described to us in detail. But when you walk among those 10,000 crosses 
and stars of David in that cemetery and you realize that those heroes 
laying beneath that ground are exactly like those heroes who stand on 
the wall in the defense of liberty in Iraq and Afghanistan today, our 
soldiers today are exactly like those of the Greatest Generation: they 
sacrifice everything.

I'm proud to represent the 31st Congressional District, which is the 
home of Fort Hood. Every soldier at Fort Hood has been deployed 
multiple times, and they never complain; they just do the job. We 
Americans, wherever we are, in this House that we are so blessed to be 
able to serve or around the world, should stop every day, when we have 
the opportunity, and say thank you to the United States Army for the 
quality of human beings they have produced to defend our Nation and for 
the patriotic spirit that is part of what makes up the psyche of 
America.

Nothing is more precious to us than the United States Army. Nothing 
is more honorable to me than being given the opportunity to represent 
over 50,000 American soldiers. And so this day I am very happy to say 
to our United States Army, happy birthday, U.S. Army. We are proud of 
you. God bless you and keep you safe.