---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `cee154fb1dcf4ceef58e7fa6f21f7358`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. I rise today to support the funding bill for the 
Departments of Commerce and Justice, Science and Related Agencies and 
commend Senators Mikulski and Shelby for their hard work on this 
legislation.

This bill provides important funding that will strengthen the 
American economy, promote scientific advancement, and protect our 
national security. It reflects our priorities by funding State and 
local law enforcement agencies across the country. Since September 11, 
2001, these agencies have been on the front lines of Nation's efforts 
to fight crime as well as to safeguard our communities against terror.

Our law enforcement officials have accepted these responsibilities 
willingly and have performed admirably. But for several years, they 
have been burdened by their expanded role. These agencies have asked 
the administration and Congress for help--but instead of providing them 
with the funding they need, the Bush administration and the Republican 
Congress sought instead to cut their budgets. To those who patrol our 
streets, these repeated budget cuts made no sense, and they made no 
sense to those of us in the Democratic minority in Congress.

Thankfully, there's a new group of sheriffs on Capitol Hill. This 
Democratic Congress is committed to providing law enforcement with the 
tools they need to help keep our communities safe.

This bill delivers on our commitment. It provides nearly $2.7 billion 
in State and local law enforcement assistance--$1.5 billion above the 
President's request.

The American people learned a decade ago that federal funding for 
State and local law enforcement helps reduce violent crime. During the 
Clinton administration, we provided meaningful funding for tough and 
effective anticrime programs. The Community Oriented Policing Services 
Program put more than 115,000 additional cops on the street and in our 
schools. Byrne grants helped fund state and local law enforcement 
agencies, criminal justice systems, and antidrug task forces.

This investment in State and local law enforcement paid off. Violent 
crime nationwide fell by nearly 26 percent between 1994 and 2000. And 
study after study showed the link between lower crime rates and Federal 
assistance for law enforcement. In Illinois, nearly $40 million in COPS 
grants have funded 5,540 additional police officers and sheriffs. 
Nearly 700 local and State law enforcement agencies in my home State 
have directly benefited from this funding.

In northern Illinois, the village of Johnsburg has a population of 
about 7,000. Experts recommend 1 police officer per 400 to 500 people. 
Johnsburg, however, has only 10 officers--an average of 1 per 700 
residents. The lack of officers in Johnsburg means that often they have 
only one car patrolling the streets. This is no way to ensure the 
safety of small town residents. Small towns like Johnsburg desperately 
need the funding provided by COPS grants in order to put cops on the 
beat and keep crime off of their streets.

COPS grants also play a crucial role in the war against drugs. I am 
sorry to say that Illinois has a serious problem with methamphetamine 
abuse. In Williamson County, Sheriff Tom Cundiff is using COPS funding 
to train some 150 individuals in dismantling meth labs. This is no 
inexpensive undertaking--the breathing apparatus needed for each person 
alone costs $3,000. Sheriff Cundiff tells me that COPS funding has 
allowed him to train eight times the number of officers than he could 
have trained without our help.

This funding is also vital for the safety of our schools. Nearly $22 
million has been awarded to add 181 school resources officers to 
improve safety for students and teachers in public schools throughout 
Illinois. Why is this money so important? In Breese, IL, town of 4,000, 
the population doubles every day as the children of Clinton County 
arrive in Breese to attend school. This influx strains the resources of 
the police department and its six officers. With a grant of just 
$56,000, the Breese police department will be able to install cameras 
and other security equipment in their schools. These cameras will feed 
images to computers in police cruisers so officers can patrol the 
village while still keeping track of what's happening at school.

Since the late 1990s, the Bush administration and the Republican-led 
Congress have cut funding for State and local law enforcement, year 
after year, budget after budget. Not surprisingly at the same time the 
administration was slashing funds for state and local law enforcement, 
violent crime rates started going up.

According to the FBI's crime reports, violent crime rates increased 
2.3 percent in 2005 after years of decreases, and then rose again by 
1.9 percent in 2006. This represents tens of thousands of additional 
violent crimes each year. This alarming increase in violent crime rates 
should have been a call to action. But it wasn't.

Instead, the administration's's 2008 budget request tried to cut more 
than half of all State and local law enforcement funding. It cut the 
COPS program down to a mere $32 million, virtually eliminated the 
Byrne/JAG program, and eliminated the juvenile accountability block 
grant program.

Can the administration honestly say that we should be spending 
billions of dollars a month to police the streets of Iraq but that we 
can't afford to pay for proven crime prevention programs here at home? 
Earlier this year, Russ Laine, the chief of police in Algonquin, IL, 
testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee at a hearing about 
rising crime.

Chief Laine also serves as the vice-president of the International 
Association of Chiefs of Police, and he speaks on behalf of chiefs 
throughout the Nation. He talked about the growing crime problem in 
Algonquin, a tiny town that had just suffered its first drive-by 
shooting and has seen clashes between violent gangs. He also talked 
about the strain that law enforcement agencies have felt in trying to 
fight crime while also detecting, investigating and preventing 
terrorist acts.

In his testimony, Chief Laine said the following:




 We willingly accept the new responsibilities in combating 


 terrorism, but our ability to continue with traditional 


 policing is our best weapon against terrorism. . . . Law 


 enforcement are doing all that we can to protect our 


 communities from increasing crime rates and the specter of 


 terrorism, but we cannot do it alone. We need the full 


 support and assistance of the federal government.


Chief Laine, help is on the way.

The fiscal year 2007 continuing resolution passed by this Congress 
earlier this year provided $2.6 billion in State and local law 
enforcement assistance programs. It included funding increases for the 
COPS and Byrne/JAG programs. The bill we consider today further 
increases state and local law enforcement funding. It provides $550 
million for COPS and $1.4 billion for State and local law enforcement 
grants.

This bill also increases funds the crime and terror prevention 
efforts of Federal law enforcement agencies. The FBI, DEA, ATF and the 
U.S. Marshals are all funded in this bill, and all at levels exceeding 
the President's request.

Let's pass this bill and give law enforcement agencies the tools they 
need to keep our communities safe.

I would be remiss, however, to yield the floor without mentioning 
that this bill goes beyond providing vital support to law enforcement 
agencies across the country.

This legislation also helps another important issue we face today--
climate change. According to the National Academy of Sciences, our 
ability to monitor severe weather systems, declining fish stocks, 
shortages of freshwater, increased soil erosion, and significant 
changes to the global climate all depend on NASA's Earth science 
budget.

This bill restores funding for environmental polar-orbiting and 
geostationary satellites. These satellites provide data about our 
planet that allow Federal and State agencies, scientists, and industry 
to identify and assess environmental patterns and threats. After the 
Bush administration proposed cutting funding for these satellites, 
scientists from both NOAA and NASA reacted strongly, arguing that the 
decision would place ''the overall climate program in serious 
jeopardy.''

This measure also provides funding to implement some of the 
recommendations made by the Joint Ocean Commission to protect the 
planet's waters. It funds research into


coastal areas and the Great Lakes, including studies on invasive 
aquatic species. The need to address invasive species is nowhere 
greater than in Illinois, where the Asian Carp threatens Lake Michigan 
and the entire Great Lakes ecosystem.

Global climate change poses a threat to our future and to our 
national security. Failing to recognize and plan for the consequences 
of global warming would be a serious mistake.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation for the safety of 
our communities and the future of our planet.