---
---

# CONSTITUTIONAL CHECKS AND BALANCES
## `cee2369eac89ce0566d9431937ef9c3a`
`Mr. HODES — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Thank you. As I have listened to the colloquy we have had 
here on the floor today in this Chamber where such important issues of 
war and peace, spending, raising revenue are debated on a daily basis 
now and thinking about the beginnings of the country, and you have 
asked about the questions coming up about appropriations, and we have 
had passed numerous appropriations bills. I think we have passed 12 
here in the House of Representatives. The Senate has not yet acted on 
all of them, because, of course, once we pass the appropriations bills, 
and they must originate under the Constitution here in the House of 
Representatives, they go to the Senate. The Senate has to pass them. 
They come back and forth and they go up to the President. Of course the 
President has now threatened a veto on the spending necessary to run 
the Federal Government, to run the program for health and human 
services, to educate our kids, to heal the sick, all the programs that 
we have in the Federal Government, he has threatened to veto. And then 
if he vetoes a bill as we saw with the SCHIP bill, it will come back 
here where Congress will have the power to vote to override that veto 
and put it into law despite what the President says. All those powers 
and all the debates arise out of what my colleague from Florida noted 
was a living, breathing document. This great democracy of ours comes 
down to the words and the spirit that are embodied in the Constitution 
of the United States

Many Americans around the country really have lost sight of the 
humble beginnings of the country and the need for the powers in article 
I.



We were a ragtag country, mostly woodsmen and woodswomen that were 
fighting against this imperial monarchy. We won a revolution and were 
then immediately faced with terrible challenges. We had no Navy. We had 
no commerce. Our Army was weak because we had just been through a 
revolution. We didn't have much money. We had no trade. We had few 
ambassadors. We had very few friends. It was the Constitution that had 
to lay out all the powers that would serve as the basis for what is now 
a $1 trillion a year appropriation in terms of what the Federal 
Government raises and spends, or borrows and spends in past Congresses.

The challenges we faced coming in here, we are faced with fiscal 
irresponsibility, in which Congress was borrowing and spending. In 
fact, the war in Iraq is a perfect example. That war, which is now 
suggested will cost $2.4 trillion when all is said and done and all is 
added up, has been done with borrowing. It has been done by putting it 
on the backs of our children and our grandchildren. Fiscal 
irresponsibility. Just waste of taxpayer money, which we were sent here 
to deal with.

The Constitution lays out clearly that it is Congress's duty to lay 
and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises, words these days that 
don't mean very much. They are fancy, old-fashioned words. We have got 
to pay the debts and provide for the common defense and general 
welfare. We are allowed in Congress to borrow money on the credit of 
the United States because it was very important at the very beginning 
of the Nation that this government be given the power to deal 
commercially and get the money it needed in a responsible way to run 
the affairs of the country. But it was up to Congress to appropriate 
the money to run the programs, provide for the common defense and 
general welfare.

Today, we are faced with a tough situation and it will probably take 
us all through the fall as we deal with the President, who has 
threatened to veto the responsible measures that we, in Congress, 
coming together as voices of the people, have decided are necessary to 
run this country. It is up to Congress, really, to say what those 
programs should be because that is the power the Constitution gives us.

Mr. Speaker, I heard with great interest the quotes from Madison, the 
quotes in the book. There is another quote from Madison that really 
talks about why Congress is the place that provides for the welfare and 
defense of the country. Madison wrote in Federalist Papers No. 52, and 
the words, it's a little old-fashioned, but folks will get it, ''As it 
is essential to liberty that the government in general should have a 
common interest with the people, so it is particularly essential that 
the branch of it under consideration,'' the Congress, ''should have an 
immediate dependence on, and an intimate sympathy with, the people''. 
In other words, it was clear from the founding of this Nation that this 
body, this hall, this place where we stand before there was C-SPAN, 
before there was television, this place is the place of the people.

The 435 people who gather here, each representing 650,000 or so 
people of the United States, are the folks who, in what I have 
described to my constituents as the hurly-burly of democracy, come 
together to decide how things should be governed, what kind of money do 
we need, and how are we going to spend it.

So that is what we are going to be seeing this fall play out. We 
don't know how it will end, where it is going to go. The Senate will 
have a role, certainly the President has a role. But so far it appears 
that with this President, the role now, unlike the past 6 years of the 
109th, 108th, 107th, which, with all due respect for my colleagues on 
the other side of the aisle, the Republicans, were Republican-dominated 
Congresses where the veto word was never mentioned, all of the sudden 
the President has now decided that it is time to veto almost everything 
that is coming out of Congress. He vetoed SCHIP, a bill to ensure 10 
million of our neediest children for health care. Vetoed. We are going 
to send it back. Threatened vetoes for our appropriations bills to run 
the Federal Government. He is going to send them back.

This is a new light, apparently, that has dawned on this President, 
that suddenly a Democratic Congress sending him legislation is all of a 
sudden going to be subject to vetoes. With this initiative, we are here 
to reassert the importance, the power, the responsibility of this 
Congress to act for the people who sent us here.