---
---

# COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007
## `cee76fab5796de4c7687fe26523c506b`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 19 July 2007`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I rise to speak enthusiastically in 
favor of the Higher Education Access Reconciliation Act and to also 
speak against the Sessions amendment to eliminate the debt forgiveness 
program for entering public service.

I can't tell you how happy I am today to be speaking on legislation 
helping our young people have access to higher education. Finally, 
after a very dark week, where we were gagged and muzzled from trying to 
deal with bringing the Iraq war to an end, we now have an open debate 
on how to achieve the American dream. This is what I came to the Senate 
to be able to do. This is what the voters wanted us to do when on 
November 7 they held a national referendum and put the Democrats back 
in charge so we could change the tone, have a civilized debate such as 
we are, and also to change the priorities--and changing the priorities 
Senator Kennedy has, by leading us in a direction where we can expand 
opportunity for our young people without expanding our deficit.

We will not expand our Federal deficit and we will help families not 
expand their family deficit, as they try to help their kids achieve 
higher education. This legislation pending before us today should be 
passed in a swift, expeditious, uncluttered way. This bill is 
absolutely a great bill for students and it is a great bill for 
America. It gives our students access to the American dream. It gives 
our young people access to the freedom to achieve, to be able to follow 
their talents, and to be able to achieve higher education in whatever 
field they will be able to serve this country. We do it by providing an 
increase in Pell grants.

But the bill is also fiscally responsible as well as socially 
progressive. It cuts subsidies--big, lavish, bloated subsidies--to 
banks. In eliminating these bloated, unneeded subsidies in today's era 
of cheap money, what we are able to do is put that back into student 
aid. So we up the student aid, but we don't create more borrowing in 
order to do it.

The bill also has other reform elements to it. It reforms the 
application process. Anybody in here who is a mom or a dad--or an Aunt 
Barb--knows that, boy, is that process complicated. You almost have to 
have been to college in order to apply for student loans to be able to 
go to college.

The other thing it does is it keeps an eye on those colleges and 
universities. We have seen tuition creep--we have seen tuition gallop--
to where now there is an ever-increasing escalation. We worry if we 
increase the Pell grants, are they then going to increase tuition? So 
there is reform methodologies in this, and we salute Senators Kennedy 
and Enzi for being able to do this. So this is why I am so enthusiastic 
about this bill.

As I travel around my own State of Maryland and I talk about what we 
want to do with our Federal legislative initiatives, I often say to 
audiences--and I say here today to my colleagues--we in this country 
enjoy many freedoms--the freedom of speech, the freedom of press, the 
freedom of religion--but there is an implicit freedom our Constitution 
doesn't lay out but which brings people to this country and excites the 
passions and hopes and dreams and that is the desire and the ability to 
have the freedom to achieve; to take whatever talents God has given 
you, to fill whatever are the passions in your heart, to be able to 
learn so you can earn and make a contribution. That is what I call the 
freedom to achieve.



The freedom to achieve should never be stifled in this country 
because of economic reasons. Your freedom to achieve should never be 
determined by the ZIP code you live in, by the color of your skin, or 
by the size of your family's wallet. It should be, in a democratic 
country, that everyone has access to be able to do that. That means 
affordable education. That means access to the opportunity ladder that 
students and families can count on, because we know a degree is 
something no one can ever take away from you.

When I was a young girl at a Catholic all-girls high school, my 
father and mother encouraged me to seek higher education. My father's 
grocery store had a terrible fire, and I offered to not go on to higher 
education but to work in our little family grocery store. But my father 
said, no, Barb, you have to go, and your mom and I will find a way, 
because no matter what you do or what in life happens to you, no one 
can ever take that degree away from you. As your father who wants to 
help you and to protect you, the best way I can protect you is to make 
sure you will be able to earn a living all of your life.

My father gave me the freedom to achieve. But tuition costs were 
different in those days, and now people rely upon student loans or 
student assistance. That is what we need to continue to do.

We also know when we are helping our young people, or not-so-young 
people who return, the value of higher education doesn't only accrue to 
the individual, it accrues to the Nation as a whole. Every time we help 
someone be able to go on and have that freedom to achieve, we might be 
educating someone who is going to find the cure for cancer. We are 
going to be educating the cop on the beat who might save that old lady 
from being mugged. Whatever we do, that education lifts not only that 
person but it lifts the level of attainment of the Nation as a whole.

That is why this is an important public investment. This is why on 
this day, this week, we finally have some light coming into the Senate.

We know higher education is a great opportunity. As I said, this 
means there will be people who are young and not so young who will 
bless us for what we are doing today. Getting a college education is 
the core of the American dream, and I am going to be sure that every 
student has access to that dream and make sure that when they graduate, 
their very first mortgage isn't their student debt.

My colleagues have spoken eloquently about how often that debt is 
$20,000 or more. I know in my home State college tuition is on the 
rise. The tuition at the University of Maryland, a land grant college, 
has increased by almost 40 percent since 2002. Financial aid is not 
keeping up. Pell grants now only cover 30 percent of what a 4-year 
public college costs, but 20 years ago those Pell grants covered 80 
percent of the cost.

We look at our families, our middle-class families, and they are 
stretched and they are stressed. Families in my State are worried about 
many things. They are worried about their jobs, worried about the cost 
of raising a family, gas prices are up, the cost of utilities is up, 
the cost of health care is up--you name it, everything is up but wages. 
They are racing from carpool to work and back again. While they might 
be taking care of mom and dad who need assisted living, they are also 
wondering how are they going to assist their kids to go to college so 
they are assisting their kids with learning how to earn a living. Our 
families need help. By gosh, I believe that help begins at home.

This is what this legislation does. It will increase student aid by 
increasing Pell grants from $4,300 per year to $5,400 per year. It is a 
$1,100 increase. This is wonderful. That is already a $5,000 break over 
a 4-year program. If you are looking at a community college, this could 
help you pay for this. For so many of our young people, the community 
college is the first access to higher education.

These families and these students will know exactly what this means. 
The simple expansion of Pell grants is going to take that opportunity 
ladder and take that first rung and make sure it is reliable and 
stable.

There are other important aspects in this bill in addition to that. I 
am so proud we have extended our deferred loans for our men and women 
in the armed services. Under the old law, servicemembers could only 
defer their student loans for 6 months. They are fighting in Iraq. I 
think we ought to defer it indefinitely, but we will take what we can 
get in the law. That is an important step.

I want to say a word about the comments about public service. Why is 
it every time we talk about public service jobs it is in a snide and 
snarky way? I am tired of people talking about public service jobs in a 
snide and snarky way. Somehow or other, in private sector jobs you work 
hard. I know for those hedge fund managers, walking down that rugged 
terrain of Wall Street, fighting their way to get a latte, is tough 
work. But why is it if you are an FBI agent we are going to talk about 
you in a snarky way? What about if you are a nurse in the VA helping 
fit that prosthetic device for that injured warrior coming back? We 
have to remember that civil service is honorable and civil service is 
hard work, and public service makes contributions to the public good.

I hope we then in this debate also follow the kind of rubric that has 
been developed by our colleague from Ohio, Senator Voinovich. He is 
worried, too, about all the retirements that are coming in civil 
service. We are going to recruit, but let's talk about specifically 
what this does. This is debt forgiveness where we are facing shortages. 
We are talking about debt forgiveness in law enforcement. Law 
enforcement all over the United States is facing shortfalls in 
recruitment. There are people who no longer want to be cops on the beat 
because it is a dirty, dangerous job. We have a shortage of nurses. 
Let's talk about our teachers--oh, our most important asset is our 
children. We will not pay to recruit and retain, but we will 
overregulate our teachers. We have to be able to get them in.

When we talk about the fact that if you are an elementary 
schoolteacher or you are that preschool teacher who gets our kids 
reading ready, often they are very poorly paid, paid less than if they 
had worked in fast food operations. We have to help our teachers.

Then I want to talk about an area that is very near and dear to me, 
the nursing shortage. I have worked on a bipartisan basis with the 
Senator from Maine, Ms. Collins, on how to deal with the nursing 
shortage. It is now achieving a critical mass. Over 40 percent of our 
nurses will be retiring in a very short time. It is difficult also to 
retain our nurses. We need to be able to recruit and retain our nurses.


When we hear about: Why don't they work their way through? Let's work 
our way through. Have you ever been to a nursing school? Have you ever 
been in a nursing school? I have. Nursing school is tough, demanding, 
unrelenting. If you are in a nursing college program, whether it is a 
community college or a 4-year college, you have to do your lab work, 
you have to do your clinical work. You can't take time off to go work 
to earn that tuition. You have to be there learning to be a nurse. 
There is practically no way that, if you want to be a nurse, an x-ray 
technician, an occupational therapist, a physical therapist--anything 
in allied health--you can take time off to work your way through. But 
you are mounting debt. This is a way that gives you a break.

I believe in giving help to those who will be able to help us in our 
community.

To finish my point and my momentum here, I believe the Kennedy 
approach on student debt forgiveness is wise and prudent, and I believe 
can be implemented in a way that does not create abuse. Let's respect 
public service. Let's try to deal with the fact that we are facing 
critical shortages. Let's also begin to work together to solve our 
Nation's problems.

We are willing to spend thousands of dollars to recruit in critical 
areas in the military. I happen to support that, to keep that sergeant, 
to recruit that lieutenant and so on--I absolutely think we should.

I urge the passage of the Higher Education Access bill and at the 
same time the defeat of the Sessions amendment.

I yield the floor.