---
---

# None
## `cefdccddd3c3d1f3442298152934bd06`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. Mr. Speaker, our brave service men and women are 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with TBI at an alarming rate. 
Sixty-five percent of the soldiers at Walter Reed today have been 
diagnosed with traumatic injury, and thousands of veterans have mild 
TBI, but have not been diagnosed. And I'm concerned that the VA has not 
been properly diagnosing and treating those veterans with traumatic 
brain injury.

As has been mentioned today, traumatic brain injury is the signature 
injury for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. This is why I introduced 
the Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury Treatment Act, which has been 
included in its entirety in this legislation we're debating today. My 
bill would improve the diagnosis and treatment of TBI for our Nation's 
veterans by requiring the VA to screen veterans for symptoms, develop 
and operate a comprehensive program of long-term care for postacute TBI 
rehabilitation, establish TBI transition offices at all polytrauma 
network sites, and create and maintain a TBI health registry.

In addition to improving the diagnosis and treatment of traumatic 
brain injury, this bill will improve the VA's research of TBI and 
ensure that the VA provides better care to veterans in rural 
communities.

I want to thank the subcommittee chairman, Mr. Michaud, and the full


committee chair, Mr. Filner, for their leadership on this issue, for 
including my legislation in its entirety in this bill, and I want to 
urge my colleagues to support this piece of legislation.