---
---

# UNITED STATES-PERU TRADE PROMOTION AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT
## `cf1a767febd5c2fa07c2e74d367c4e7e`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 3 December 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I rise today to speak in favor of the 
United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement, which I intend to support 
tomorrow morning with my vote.

First, I thank Senator Baucus and Senator Grassley for their efforts 
in shepherding the Peru Free Trade Agreement through the Finance 
Committee, where it passed with very strong bipartisan support. I 
congratulate them for bringing the agreement to the Senate floor today, 
and I thank our majority leader, Senator Reid, for giving us the 
opportunity to have the free-trade agreement debated on the Senate 
floor today.

At the outset, Madam President, I put this in historical context for 
me. It was almost 409 years ago that my family founded the city of 
Santa Fe, NM. And in the four centuries since, you see a very unique 
and positive relationship between the United States and the nations to 
the south of the United States. It is a relationship which is bound 
together in history and in culture and in the landscape of the Western 
Hemisphere. It is a future which I hope we can work on together in the 
United States with our colleague nations to the south in order to 
develop an even stronger hemisphere.

It was in that vein of thinking that Senator John Kennedy, at the 
outset of his administration, spoke fervently about the future of the 
Alliance For Progress with the Western Hemisphere. It is in that same 
vein that I was honored to be a part of a codel that was led by our own 
majority leader, Senator Reid, before he was sworn in to be majority 
leader, when he took six Senators to Bolivia and to Peru and to 
Ecuador, trying to make a statement to South America that they were not 
to be a forgotten continent.

It was in that same vein that in my very first meeting with President 
George W. Bush, I spoke to him about the importance of not having every 
ounce of his foreign policy agenda consumed by what was happening in 
Iraq, but to make sure that he was looking at events and relationships 
throughout the world, and that one of those most


important of relationships is the relationship we have with the nations 
in Latin America, with both Central and South America.

It is in that vein that this legislation, the Peru Free Trade 
Agreement, is important for us as we move forward in trying to 
establish the right kind of relationships between the United States and 
the rest of the Western Hemisphere. I believe in the benefits of free 
and fair trade. I believe that by working to lower trade barriers and 
to expand access to foreign markets we can strengthen the U.S. economy 
in a way that benefits both businesses and workers and enhances our 
relationship with friends and allies in important parts of the world.

The Peru Free Trade Agreement is the first of four FTAs that are 
currently pending in Congress, three of which are with countries in 
South America and Central America. As such, the Peru FTA represents an 
important step forward in an effort to strengthen our ties, both 
economic and diplomatic, with our neighbors in this hemisphere.

Earlier this year, as I said, I traveled with Senators Harry Reid, 
Dick Durbin, Bob Bennett, Judd Gregg, and Kent Conrad to South America. 
The last stop on our trip was the nation of Peru. I came away from that 
visit with a strong sense of how important it is for us to bolster our 
economic and diplomatic ties with Peru and countries such as 
Peru. Doing so will be critical to our economic and our national 
security and to the effort to restore America's standing in the world 
community.


The trade agreement we are discussing today is largely possible 
because of changes that have taken place in Peru in the last decade. 
Annual exports over the last 15 years have increased from $3.4 billion 
to $23 billion; annual per capita income for the people of Peru has 
doubled, from $1,500 to $3,200. That is a significant economic set of 
changes within Peru and within our trade relationship with the country 
of Peru.

In the meantime, coca production, a major concern of ours with 
respect to Peru, has decreased dramatically, thanks in large part to 
the eradication, interdiction, and other efforts to develop economic 
opportunities for the Peruvian people.

Perhaps most important, incidents of terrorism have decreased from 
nearly 3,000 in 1991 to less than 100 in 2006. Let me say that again. 
Incidents of terrorism, violent militancy in Peru, have decreased from 
nearly 3,000 in 1991--that wasn't so long ago--to now less than 100 in 
the year 2006.

The United States has been a strong partner in helping to keep Peru 
on this promising path. As a result, along with countries such as 
Colombia and Brazil, Peru helps to form an oasis of favorable 
sentiments toward the United States in a region where our standing has 
taken major negative hits in recent years.

When our delegation, led by Senator Reid, met with President Alan 
Garcia in Peru, we had an opportunity to discuss how the relationship 
between our two nations has developed over the course of the past 
several decades, beginning with the key role Peru played in World War 
II when it provided the United States with the military bases we so 
much needed from which we monitored the activities of our military and 
our Navy in the Pacific.

At that meeting with President Garcia, we also discussed President 
Kennedy's Alliance for Progress, President Kennedy's initiative to 
strengthen ties between North and South America at the beginning of the 
Cold War. When President Kennedy outlined the goals of the alliance in 
1961, he proposed--and I quote from his historic statement:





. . . to build a hemisphere where all men can hope for a 


 suitable standard of living and all can live out their lives 


 in dignity and in freedom. . . . Let us once again transform 


 the American Continent into a vast crucible of revolutionary 


 ideas and efforts, a tribute to the power of the creative 


 energies of free men and women, an example to all the world 


 that liberty and progress walk hand in hand.


That was President Kennedy's effort to try to shine the spotlight of 
a new relationship between the United States and the countries to the 
south in Latin America.

The Alliance for Progress is not a perfect alliance, but it certainly 
gave a message which has been missing throughout much of the history of 
the United States and certainly missing the last 6 years, that the 
relationship between the United States and South America is important 
from a strategic point of view for national security because these are 
the countries located in this hemisphere, that border us to the south, 
and also because of the economic relationship between the United States 
and Latin America.

Passing this free-trade agreement will help us build on the trade 
relationship that already exists between the United States and Peru 
and, in my view, will help us move in the right direction.

I wish to speak briefly about why the Peru Free Trade Agreement is 
important.

First, from my point of view, the Peru Free Trade Agreement is 
important for America's economic security. It will benefit both 
businesses and workers in the long run. In an increasingly global 
economy, America is facing growing competition on a number of different 
fronts. In order to preserve our standing as the world economic leader 
and to ensure that American businesses continue to set the standard for 
the world community, we must expand economic opportunities in foreign 
markets. If foreign countries face obstacles to trade with the United 
States, they will take their business elsewhere.

It is worth pointing out that many Peruvian businesses already have 
unfettered access to the U.S. market as a result of Andean Trade 
Preference Agreement, which we have supported here on the floor of this 
Chamber. U.S. businesses, including the farmers and ranchers of my 
State, deserve to have that same access to the Peruvian market.

Second, the Peru FTA and others like it are important for America's 
national security interests around the world. In a part of the world 
where negative feelings toward the United States have grown and grown 
in recent years and as we strive to restore America's standing around 
the world, it is vitally important to recognize those friendships we do 
have and to do whatever we can to strengthen those friendships. Peru is 
a prominent example of an ally that has stood by us year after year. It 
would be a mistake not to return the favor here today and tomorrow by 
helping Peru continue its impressive progress of the past 15 years.

Additionally, a growing Peruvian economy with increased ties to the 
United States will help Peru continue to make progress on human rights 
and serve as an effective buffer against terrorist groups that have 
claimed more than 35,000 lives in Peru over the last 30 years.

Finally, I am proud of the historic relationship between the United 
States and Latin America, but it is a relationship that we, candidly, 
must work on to strengthen into the 21st century and beyond. Of course, 
free-trade policies, as the Presiding Officer has pointed out often on 
the floor of the Senate, have consequences that we cannot overlook and 
that must be addressed.

As the U.S. economy evolves to meet the demands of the 21st century 
and adjusts to handle increased competition from foreign businesses 
here in America, we all know there are winners and there are losers. 
That is why we need to ensure that the playing field is a fair playing 
field by doing our best to hold our trading partners to the same 
environmental and labor standards American businesses must meet. The 
bipartisan May 10 agreement of this year, which has been incorporated 
into the Peru FTA, is an important part of that effort. All of us--
Democrats and Republicans, businesses, workers, and the environmental 
community--need to work to build on that progress to ensure our trade 
policies can strengthen our economic security and our national security 
in a way that is fair and that does not hurt workers and does not hurt 
the environment.

We also need to act as soon as possible to reauthorize and strengthen 
the Trade Adjustment Assistance Program so that American workers, 
businesses, and farmers who are adversely affected by our trade 
policies can receive the assistance they need as they strive to be part 
of the 21st century global economy.

I believe we can move forward on trade in a way that addresses these 
legitimate concerns without preventing us from expanding opportunities 
for American businesses in foreign markets. I believe the Peru Free 
Trade


Agreement does an excellent job of meeting both objectives. For all the 
reasons I have outlined today, I supported the free-trade agreement 
when it was in the Finance Committee, and I will support it on the 
floor of the Senate. I urge my colleagues to do the same.
