---
---

# THE ECONOMY
## `cf1ce59ee9b313c9f54733afe653fbc8`
`Mr. HODES — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. HODES. Thank you, Mr. Yarmuth. I really appreciate hearing from 
both of you about your perspectives about what's going on.

And the discussion we've had brings to mind a quote that I read by 
Abraham Lincoln, who was a good Republican. Today he might not be a 
Republican. Today he might be a Democrat. And it really addressed some 
of the fundamental underpinnings of the debates that we are having 
about how to fix things. What Abraham Lincoln said was that ''the 
purpose of government is to do what the free markets cannot or will not 
do so well for themselves.'' And today in Congress and around 
Washington and around the country, we are beginning a debate at one 
level about what kind of changes we need to make and what kind of help 
we need to offer to struggling middle-class families. And those are two 
separate questions really.

One of the questions is, what kind of changes do we need to make to 
the regulation of our financial systems? That integrated big financial 
system that, as Mr. Klein pointed out, deals with banks. It deals with 
stocks. It deals with housing. It deals with real estate. It deals with 
insurance. It's a complex system that is now regulated in Washington. 
It's regulated at the State levels because there are regulators in the 
States who regulate all these industries. And Washington, what we are 
now seeing is that we've had Depression-era regulatory systems that 
really took their eye off the ball over the past 8 years certainly. 
While things for the middle class were squeezing tighter and tighter 
and tighter and those at the very top were doing okay, the regulators 
didn't seem to notice. And a lot of people are asking questions: Well, 
why not?

The interesting thing here is to hear how the tunes of some people in 
this Chamber have changed. It used to be that some of our colleagues 
across the aisle who were saying don't regulate, deregulate, and that 
was a huge push for this administration and many of our colleagues on 
the other side of the aisle, and, in fact, many have said just let the 
free markets take care of it. Well, what we are seeing in this boom-
bust cycle is that the free markets need some control from government. 
It's got to be balanced, of course, because you don't want to go too 
far with the free market. But what we have seen, for instance, just in 
the housing crisis is this: When I go home to talk to my community 
bankers in New Hampshire, what they tell me is that their foreclosure 
rates aren't really any different than they were before we got into the 
crisis we are in. They're not seeing a huge spike in foreclosures. They 
are regulated very closely. They have to follow strict standards. And 
they have been making loans the way they always have. They've been 
requiring down payments. They've been asking people what are their 
incomes? They've been verifying those incomes. They have been 
appraising properties accurately. They have been making sure that the 
loans they make in their communities are the kinds of loans that a lot 
of people are familiar with. Unfortunately, there were a lot of lenders 
who weren't regulated in the same way and they were making loans to 
people who probably shouldn't have loans, maybe people who were 
speculating. And then what was happening was those loans were being 
packaged. And they were going to Wall Street where they were being 
packaged into huge kinds of packages of loans and sliced and diced into 
securities with very odd names and securities that many of us don't 
even understand: ''Credit Default Swap Exchange Opportunities,'' not 
listed on any stock exchange, traded sort of desk to desk on Wall 
Street, essentially where people were taking air and risky loans and 
slicing them up and selling them around the globe because we're in a 
global economy. There are global markets, especially on the financial 
side. So I read articles where pension funds from municipal employees 
in towns in Norway were going underwater because of the mortgage crisis 
here.

And so one of the fundamental questions that we have got to ask is 
how are we going to fix this regulatory scheme? Because really if you 
think about it, over the past 8 years, we have had the Bush tax cuts, 
which advantaged the very rich; and as you said, Mr. Yarmuth, pay for 
CEOs has gone through the roof, 350, 400 times what the average person 
is making. So while we had tax cuts that were advantaging the very rich 
and the middle class was being squeezed, we were spending $800 billion 
on the war in Iraq. And while that was going on, the Federal Reserve 
was keeping interest rates very low. And mortgages were being handled 
in a different way, packaged, sliced and diced into stocks, and sold by 
unregulated lenders. So with very low interest rates, what people were 
lulled into thinking was that the prices of their houses would just 
keep going up and up and up and up, and people began to treat their 
houses like it was a revolving ATM machine.

I know that I got calls from people offering to rewrite my loan. I 
have a 30-year fixed loan. I'm very glad about it now. They were 
offering to rewrite my loan. They gave me all kinds of incredible 
deals. They were so incredible that I couldn't understand them, and I 
figured if I can't understand them, thank you very much but I'm going 
to stick with something simple. They were talking about a rate here and 
then in 3 years the rate would go there, and don't worry, when the rate 
goes up and if it goes up, you won't have to worry. Don't worry because 
your house will be worth more, and when your house is worth more, you 
will be able to refinance it again. So for the past 8 years we have 
seen that spiral. What happened was when the housing market crested and 
began to come down, everything began to unravel down the line, not only 
housing prices but then the credit crunch. It meant that people 
couldn't borrow for their businesses. They can't borrow to get out of 
their problems with their housing prices. We have seen at the same time 
a huge rise in energy prices. Jobs are now under real pressure in terms 
of people losing their jobs. And this has exploded into a crisis that 
we now have to deal with in Congress.



But we haven't been silent about it. Some of the things we have done, 
I am just going to talk really briefly, then hand it over to you, Mr. 
Klein, we took action. One of the things we did was we expanded 
affordable mortgage loan opportunities through the Federal Housing 
Administration for families who are in danger of losing their home by 
increasing the loan limits that the Federal Housing Authority 
administration could make to help with the fact that house prices have 
gone up. It's a very important part of the economic stimulus package 
which this Democratic Congress passed to put money into the hands of 
consumers through rebates that will come when people file their tax 
returns this year. Instant money. We address the housing piece, and we 
also helped small businesses in lots of significant ways.

So we haven't been sitting around. We are working on helping people. 
That was just a one-time shot, a shot in the arm for the economy. We 
are going to do other things because this is really once in a lifetime, 
in some way, kind of a problem.

People are using words like recession and other words like that. But 
as Mr. Klein said, let's just say that hard times are here. They are 
hard times that we haven't really had to face in this country in this 
way in a long, long, long time. And we are going to take action to make 
sure that we are helping squeezed middle-class families and hurting 
working families to get on their feet. We are going to offer a hand up. 
It's not going to be a handout, but it's going to be a hand up of the 
kind that the American people expect.



The last thing I will say before I turn it over to you, Mr. Klein, is 
that so far, the administration at the other end of the mall on 
Pennsylvania Avenue has set up an 800 number for homeowners. But so 
far, I am not sure that the administration really understands and is 
really feeling the depth and breadth of what our folks are facing back 
at home. I would say Mr. Bush ought to get out a little more and maybe 
he would see that some steps are necessary to help the middle-class 
families and working families. Because we are going to have to soften 
the hard landing that's coming.

With that, I will turn it back over to Mr. Klein.