---
---

# IN GRATITUDE TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND DONGGUK UNIVERSITY
## `cf1c842cb1d02a788eacc8e57cc3b0fd`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana â€” 5 May 2009`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I rise tonight to express my 
appreciation and thanks to the faculty of Dongguk University for the 
Honorary Doctorate in Political Science they bestowed upon me during my 
recent visit to South Korea. I wish to also recognize my friends in 
Korea and at Dongguk University who help make the conferral of this 
Honorary Doctorate possible. These individuals include: President 
Young-Kyo Oh and President Dong-Jin Sohn of Dongguk University, 
Governor Kwan-Yong Kim of Gyeongsangbuk-do Province, Mayor Sang-Seung 
Baek of Gyeongju City, former Korean Ambassador to the U.S. Tae-Sik Lee 
and Mrs. Lee, Mr. and Mrs. Il-Hwan Cho and Mr. and Mrs. Dong-Suk Kim of 
the Korean American Voter's Council in New York.

I have always believed that the Republic of Korea is one of America's 
most committed friends and allies, and the warmth and hospitality 
extended to me and my wife during our stay in April reinforced my 
belief that the bonds that bind the people of the United States 
together with the people of South Korea are as strong today as they 
have ever been.

Even so, I believe we should always look for opportunities to 
strengthen our alliance and friendship and one of the key areas of 
opportunity is passage of the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement.

During my stay, I had the privilege of meeting with Foreign Minister 
Myung-Hwan Yu, National Security Advisor Sung-Hwan Kim, Chairman Jin 
Park of the Korean National Assembly Foreign Affairs Committee, our 
U.S. Embassy senior officials and the American Chamber of Commerce in 
Korea. In practically every meeting, the U.S.-Korea Free Trade 
Agreement was high on the agenda. No agreement or treaty is ever 
perfect, as it is always a product of compromise. And I agree that 
Congress has a legitimate right to debate the merits of the agreement; 
so let's have that debate; let's take this agreement out of legislative 
limbo, bring it to the House Floor, have an honest up or down vote, and 
let the chips fall where they may, Madam Speaker. I think we owe our 
South Korean friends that much respect because there's more at stake 
here than just economic growth; this Free Trade Agreement recognizes 
our special relationship with South Korea and reinforces the message 
that the United States stands squarely behind our friends and allies.

Madam Speaker, I would like to ask unanimous consent to place in the 
Congressional Record a copy of the remarks I delivered at Dongguk 
University, entitled: ''The Korea-U.S. Alliance Partnership.'' And I 
would also ask all of my colleagues to join me in recognizing the 
historic significance of the U.S.-Korea alliance and its growing 
importance in the years to come.




 President Young-Kyo Oh, distinguished members of the 


 faculty, and students of Dongguk University, ladies and 


 gentlemen and friends: Thank you for your kind introduction. 


 It is a great pleasure to be here today in the heart of 


 Korea's ancient capital city. We are surrounded by history, 


 culture and the memories and friendship that our nations have 


 made together through battles and treaties, commerce and 


 trade.



 When I think about this partnership, one particular Korean-


 American friend comes to mind. His name is Johnny Yune. When 


 Johnny was eleven years old, his family's home town was 


 bombed by communist forces. As they attempted to flee, a 


 particular blast knocked Johnny off his feet and sent him 


 tumbling to a ditch where he was left to die. An American 


 soldier named Private Brown found Johnny, rescued him from 


 the ditch and saved his life that day.



 In the weeks and months that followed, the Yune family got 


 to know this Private Brown very well. Johnny remembers how he 


 used to come over to his home, unshaven, with a guitar on his 


 back and a truck full of rationed food. Private Brown would 


 sing and teach them American songs like ''Oh Susanna'' and 


 give them candy. Johnny is alive today because of that 


 American soldier; and, although he never saw the Private once 


 his unit had moved on, Johnny never forgot his kindness. In 


 his career as a television and movie star, he often speaks of 


 the war hero.



 The virtues of the personal relationship between Private 


 Brown and Johnny are not limited to this experience. In a 


 greater sense, The United States and Korea also share a very 


 special relationship.



 The United States and the Republic of Korea first became 


 partners more than 125 years ago, when we signed a treaty of 


 amity




 and commerce in 1882. This partnership was forged on the 


 battlefield during the Korean War. The South Koreans fought 


 bravely to stay free from the chains of tyranny and communism 


 and have remained a beacon of light and democracy ever since. 


 For more than half a century, we have been diplomatic, 


 political, economic, and cultural partners and great friends.



 In the early years, the United States reached out a hand to 


 South Korea, assisting as the nation transformed itself from 


 a war-torn ''basket'' economy into what it is now: a full-


 blown democracy with the world's 13th largest economy. South 


 Korea is now an indispensable partner in promoting democracy 


 and extolling the benefits of free market economies. Today, 


 South Korea is the United States' seventh largest export 


 market and the fifth largest market for U.S. agricultural 


 products.



 South Korea is committed to the freedom of its people, even 


 when threats grow daily, and especially in light of the 


 North's recent missile launch. The nation is a key partner in 


 the Six-Party Talks to resolve North Korea's nuclear issue, 


 despite the constant fear of war that clouds the peninsula. 


 South Korea is an important military ally with over 29,000 


 U.S. troops stationed in the country and plays a vital part 


 in securing peace and stability in the region. The United 


 States is committed to the strengthening and survival of 


 freedom on the Korean Peninsula.



 South Korea has also reached out a hand to the United 


 States in times when we have been threatened. It is one of 


 only three nations which stood alongside the U.S. in all four 


 major conflicts that the U.S. has faced since the Korean War. 


 The nation has been a strong ally in the U.S.-led War on 


 Terror, having committed troops to Iraq, Afghanistan and 


 Lebanon. Korea is a true friend of the United States. We are 


 committed together to defending freedom and liberty 


 throughout the world.



 Over the past several years, the relationship between the 


 United States and Korea has grown even stronger. As a Member 


 of Congress and, especially, a Co-Chair of the Congressional 


 Caucus on Korea, I have been able to observe and participate 


 in legislative actions that have contributed to consolidating 


 the U.S.-Korea alliance. The Embassy of Korea in Washington 


 and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in Seoul have 


 played a larger role in recent years in bringing to the 


 attention of Congress those issues of importance and concern 


 to the Korean people. This has informed congressional action 


 and improved the legislative process.



 Of the important legislative achievements of the past few 


 years, the inclusion of Korea in the Visa Waiver Program, 


 which makes it easier for Koreans to visit the United States 


 for business, leisure, or family purposes, deserves special 


 mentioning. In early 2006, there were about two dozen 


 countries participating in the Visa Waiver Program 


 administered by the U.S. Department of State. Most of them 


 were European allies and trading partners. While 


 responsibility for expanding or contracting the Visa Waiver 


 Program lies with the Executive Branch, Congress took the 


 lead in persuading the Bush administration to include Korea 


 in the program.



 My colleagues and I argued that, by allowing South Korea to 


 participate in the Visa Waiver Program, we would not only be 


 adhering to its stated goals, but at the same time we would 


 build upon a strategic partnership with our close friends in 


 East Asia. Although it took some time, legislation to open 


 the door for Korea to accede to the Visa Waiver Program 


 passed in July 2007, and in November of last year, Korea 


 officially joined the program at long last. It was a major 


 accomplishment for our bi-lateral alliance.



 A second great achievement was the upgrading of Korea's 


 Foreign Military Sales (FMS) status to NATO+3. As I have 


 already noted, Korea and the United States have a close and 


 integral military alliance. But for years, Korea was treated 


 in an unfair fashion by U.S. laws related to the sales of 


 military equipment. So the U.S. House of Representatives and 


 U.S. Senate sought to correct this problem by raising Korea's 


 Foreign Military Sales status to something known as NATO-


 plus-3. This status elevation was long overdue and absolutely 


 necessary to reverse the unfair exclusion.



 In doing this, we acted on our firm belief that the 


 Republic of Korea has been one of our most important and 


 staunchest allies in the Asia-Pacific region. Our mutual 


 alliance is dynamic and comprehensive, encompassing 


 political, economic, military, security, cultural, and social 


 spheres. By the end of last year, Congress had approved the 


 upgrade in status for Korea and it now stands at NATO+4. I am 


 convinced that both of our countries will benefit from the 


 greater partnership that this status upgrade brings.



 Finally, we were able to see the passage of a resolution 


 bringing world attention to the plight of the ''Comfort 


 Women'' who suffered at the hands of the Imperial Japanese 


 Army during the Second World War. In 2007, the House of 


 Representatives at long last passed House Resolution 121, 


 which I co-sponsored and which received bipartisan support 


 and worldwide attention in the news media.



 In fact, Congress took the lead in raising the issue of the 


 ''comfort women.'' We invited survivors from Korea to tell 


 their stories in front of television cameras on the record. 


 After the United States Congress acted on this critical human 


 rights issue, other legislative bodies around the world took 


 notice and acted themselves. Thus, the plight of Korea's 


 comfort women became an issue of international concern that, 


 we hope, will serve as a reminder to future generations that 


 such horrific violence shall never occur again.



 While some cynics dismissed the resolution as simply 


 revisiting a tragedy of the distant past, I believe a 


 relevant assertion of the importance of respecting human 


 rights is timeless, and the world should never again deny 


 women the right to be safe and secure and to maintain their 


 dignity.



 Though these accomplishments are notable, I believe there 


 are even greater accomplishments in our future. In the coming 


 months I hope we can pass the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement 


 of which I am a strong supporter. As most of you undoubtedly 


 know, the United States and Korea signed a free trade 


 agreement in June of 2007, after months of diligent 


 negotiations. The agreement has not yet been ratified and, to 


 be candid, action on the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement may 


 not take place for some time.



 It is no secret that there are members of both the United 


 States Congress and the Korean National Assembly who oppose 


 the Free Trade Agreement. But there are also those of us--and 


 I include myself among them--who believe that free trade 


 among free peoples is a positive good, and those agreements 


 or treaties that advance the principles of free trade bring 


 more benefits than risks, promote future prosperity, and 


 provide a stronger foundation for peace and stability around 


 the globe.



 Just last month the World Trade Organization warned of a 


 rising threat of trade protectionism around the world. This 


 threat has emerged because of the general decline of the 


 global economy over the past two or three years. Governments 


 are doing what they have done for centuries in the face of 


 economic contraction: they look inward. This is, in my 


 opinion, a mistake, and it is a mistake borne out by the 


 lessons of history.



 The benefits of a U.S.-Korean Free Trade Agreement are 


 manifestly clear. This agreement, once it is ratified, will 


 constitute the largest and most commercially significant Free 


 Trade Agreement the United States has negotiated in 15 years.



 The numbers are truly impressive. Korea is the 13th largest 


 economy in the world with a GDP of nearly one Trillion U.S. 


 dollars and a per capita income of over $20,000. It is the 


 United States' 7th largest trading partner and our 5th 


 largest market for U.S. agricultural export products. Trade 


 between our two nations is nearly $80 Billion and includes 


 important goods like computer chips, industrial machinery, 


 organic chemicals, agricultural produce, civilian aircraft 


 and, of course, beef. A Free Trade Agreement would bolster 


 U.S. exports to Korea, open duty-free access for Korean goods 


 in the U.S. market, and stimulate job growth in both of our 


 countries.



 A Free Trade Agreement would also benefit the great State 


 of Indiana, which I proudly represent in Congress. Korea is 


 Indiana's 10th largest export market, and Indiana exports 


 $303 Million in goods to Korea annually. Not only that, but 


 almost 10,000 Korean-Americans reside in the State of Indiana 


 and more than 2,000 Korean students study at Indiana's 


 prestigious academic institutions.



 This new partnership between the United States and South 


 Korea is sure to be a win-win for both of our countries. I 


 pledge that I am committed to working closely with the U.S. 


 and Korean negotiators as FTA talks proceed, so that we can 


 ensure the best opportunities for Americans and Koreans 


 alike.



 Unfortunately, the political mood in the United States 


 right now is not conducive to the ratification of the U.S.-


 Korea Free Trade Agreement, or any other such trade 


 agreement. I can assure you, however, that my colleagues and 


 I who believe strongly in the principle of free trade and 


 specifically in the importance of the Korea-U.S. Free Trade 


 Agreement, will not let this agreement die for lack of 


 action. We will continue to fight for its approval by 


 Congress, we will press the White House to fight for it, and 


 we will go directly to the court of public opinion to 


 persuade American consumers, business leaders, and workers to 


 support it. I know that, with time and wisdom on our side, 


 the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement will be ratified and the 


 relationship between our countries will become even stronger 


 because of it.



 In closing, I am reminded of the look on my good friend 


 Johnny Yune's face, and the way his voice cracked as he re-


 tells the story of Private Brown. It is the same affection I 


 have experienced on my visit here and the affection I have 


 felt toward my old and even new Korean and Korean-American 


 friends.



 Our friendship is different from the relationship of any 


 other country with the United States. I would say to my 


 Korean friends that we should continue to focus on what keeps 


 our relationship strong and more unique than any other 


 alliance in world history. It is my fervent belief that the 


 U.S.-Korea alliance is worth protecting and strengthening. 


 That is why the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement is so 


 important to me.



 Once again, I have been struck personally by the 


 extraordinary warmth and hospitality of the Korean people 


 since my arrival here in this beautiful country. This has 


 been true not only among my formal hosts, but with everyone I 


 meet. I am honored and humbled




 to accept this honorary degree at this historic institution, 


 and I thank you from the bottom of my heart. May we never 


 cease to find ways to strengthen and deepen the ties that 


 bind our two nations together.



 President Oh, distinguished faculty and students of Dongguk 


 University, friends and colleagues, it is my distinct honor 


 to accept this degree. I will always cherish this moment with 


 great humility and I pledge to do all I can to see that our 


 very special alliance to grow even closer in the coming 


 years.



 Thank you, and ''GAHM-SAH-HAHM-NIDA!''
