---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2206, U.S.  TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `cf1cbe60c0aa64df9cdbd5d2adbf9aca`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, some might see this Iraq supplemental as a 
victory for President Bush in his never-ending quest to secure open-
ended, unaccountable funding for his disastrous policy in Iraq. If so, 
it is a hollow victory.

We can debate why and when our Iraq policy turned into the disaster 
that plays out every day in Baghdad and Dyala. But that debate really 
doesn't matter anymore, because the President's policy is a failure. 
And no amount of funding, with or without conditions, can fix it. The 
only thing that matters now is when and how we end this disaster, and 
when we bring our uniformed men and women safely home to their families 
and communities.

Our troops did their job. They achieved their mission. They ended the 
brutal reign of Saddam Hussein, and confirmed for the world that there 
never were any weapons of mass destruction.

They weren't sent to Iraq to take a bullet on behalf of the sectarian 
religious factions hellbent on civil war.

Mr. Speaker, this supplemental only postpones the inevitable. After 
hundreds of billions of dollars; after more than 3,400 soldiers, 
marines, sailors and airmen have lost their lives; after nearly 1,000 
U.S. defense contractors have been killed; after more than 25,000 
uniformed men and women have been wounded or maimed; after tens of 
thousands of American veterans returning from Iraq will be suffering 
from the trauma they experienced in combat for the rest of their lives; 
after hundreds of thousands of Iraqi men, women and children have been 
killed and millions more have been traumatized by the violence and 
horror that now marks Iraqi daily life; after the destruction of towns, 
villages, communities, neighborhoods and infrastructure, we still come 
back to the same place, the same stark question.

Mr. Speaker, how and when is this war and our military occupation of 
Iraq going to end?

The Middle East is going up in flames. Al Qaeda and other terrorist 
networks remain strong and intact. Their recruitment is growing. 
Meanwhile, America's standing in the world has never been lower.

I ask each of my colleagues, when and how are we going to get out of 
Iraq? When will each of us be able to tell the families in our 
districts that their sons and daughters, fathers and mothers, husbands 
and wives, brothers and sisters, will finally be coming home?

Mr. Speaker, unbelievably, the President doesn't even want his own 
policy priorities tied to a time line for removing our troops in Iraq. 
He wants no accountability on the readiness of our troops, or whether 
they are adequately trained and equipped. Just show me the money. 
That's all he wants.

Mr. Speaker, I simply can't support it. And I will vote against this 
blank check of a supplemental.

Mr. Speaker, let me just conclude with a few words about the rule. 
This is not a satisfactory conclusion to the weeks-long debate over 
funding the war. But the sad reality is that the Senate is too timid 
and the President too irrational. There was no one with whom the House 
could forge a genuine compromise to hold the President accountable for 
the lives he is willing to sacrifice and the money he seeks and move us 
closer to bringing our troops home. And we do not have the votes in 
this House, sadly, to override a veto.

Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Speaker Pelosi and Chairman Obey for 
their persistence and their courage in trying to end this tragic war.

The rule before us ensures that we do not walk away from this debate 
or the decision to remove our troops from Iraq. Under this rule, the 
House must vote on removing our troops from Iraq before any further 
supplemental funding can be approved for the war.

So let's be clear. Those of us who oppose this war will be back again 
and again and again and again until this war is ended.

Mr. Speaker, from the White House to our military field commanders, 
everyone, including the Republican leader of this House, has said that 
September is the tipping point. Well, we will vote, and we will vote in 
September. And we will decide, and I pray that we will then bring our 
troops home.