# IRAQ
## `cf1ff1ef5fdc589388f8a6f2f077d343`
`Mr. SHAYS — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. I appreciate you holding this very important dialogue 
about Iraq. I appreciate your taking this Special Order to share what 
many of us have seen in Iraq.

I want to say that I go where the truth takes me, even if it counters 
something I believed and thought. I just go where the truth takes us. 
There is no question that 2003 was not a good year. When we attacked 
Iraq, there was tremendous euphoria and then we made mistake after 
mistake after mistake. Those have already been discussed. Half of 2004 
wasn't particularly good, but when we transferred power to the new 
Iraqi Government, the Iraqi people, we began to see noticeable changes.

And then 2005 was a pretty amazing year. They had an election to 
create a government that would form a constitutional convention. They 
met the deadline to form a constitutional convention. They wrote their 
Constitution and adopted it in a plebiscite throughout Iraq, and then 
they elected a government under that new Constitution. So 2005 was a 
pretty astonishing year, a very successful year.

They basically had 18 months of progress from the deep hole we dug in


2003 and part of 2004, and then came 2006. It took them 4 months to 
establish a government, and then the Maliki government didn't do the 
kind of heavy lifting we were hoping they would do.



I took a position that I took then and hold today, that we need to 
prod the Maliki government. I believe the timeline is important, but 
not a timeline based on basically pulling the rug out from them and 
just leaving. We attacked them. They didn't attack us. We got rid of 
all their army, their police and their border patrol. We left them 
totally defenseless in a country where all their prisoners were let 
out, and then we would walk away? The neighbors to Iraq said we may not 
have wanted you to go in, in fact, said we did not want you to go in, 
but it would be an outrage if you left. And so now this is where we're 
at. Do we leave now? Do we leave sometime in the future? What do we do?

I think that what we knew we needed to do was have a new Secretary of 
Defense. That's what the American people asked. That's what some of us 
wanted to see happen, and we got someone who wasn't tied to the past in 
Mr. Gates. Then I think all of us were hoping and praying that Mr. 
Petraeus would be the general in charge to serve under Secretary of 
Defense Mr. Gates. General Petraeus who had been there three times, 
been involved in this effort, and knows Iraq cold and knows the 
insurgency concerns extraordinarily well, given that he spent a year of 
his life just studying it. He basically said, give me more people to 
see what we could do in the greater Baghdad area. It was referred to as 
''the surge.'' He said give me more troops; we need to establish some 
security, and then we'll reappraise. And now we're coming to that 
point.

When I was there in December last year, they said we have lost Anbar 
province. We've just given up on it. We have no troops. It's totally in 
the hands of al Qaeda, and it sounded to me like a mini-Afghanistan. I 
go back in April. He said, we're winning Anbar province. I said, what 
do you mean you are winning Anbar province? You told me you'd given up 
on it. Well, the Sunni tribal leaders came to us, said we want al Qaeda 
defeated, we want your help, come on in and we will work with you.

That's what happened. It was a model that wasn't part of the surge, 
but then when I went back in May, he said the surge is working; we're 
starting to see some progress from the full complement in July. And 
when I went back this past August, they said the story is the surge is 
continuing to go in the right direction, and we have won Anbar 
province, and we are winning some of the other Sunni provinces. The 
tribal leaders have bought in to what happened in Anbar and said we 
want the same thing.

It's almost like, to some of my colleagues in this Chamber, that to 
say the surge is working and to say that there is progress, it's like 
they're angry and disappointed: how dare you say that. You had Mr. 
Baird, a Democrat, who voted against going into Iraq, who said what he 
saw, and he goes where the truth takes him, was that there is progress, 
and it would be a mistake to leave prematurely.

So this is what we're going to be debating. Do we leave right now or 
leave by April of next year or do we maintain the surge a little 
longer? We know we're ultimately going to bring a good number of our 
troops home. We can't maintain that surge, and Mr. Carter's right. I 
have heard more of my constituents who serve in the military and those 
who don't, who I've met in Iraq. They said we could accept 12 months. 
Fifteen months is just too much. And I've had parents, they've come up 
to me, and they never did this in the past. They kind of put their arm 
around me. They whisper in my ear practically, and they say, my son or 
my daughter is in Iraq and they're exhausted.

We know that we have to reduce the workload of these troops. We have 
to start to tell Prime Minister Maliki what he needs to know, and I'll 
conclude by making this point: we can lecture Prime Minister Maliki all 
we want. We can do that if we don't mind being the biggest hypocrites 
around. So why would I say that? Well, we say, why don't you Sunni, 
Shias and Kurds get your act together, and I'm thinking, Republicans 
and Democrats can't even work together on this.

We have asked our Democratic colleagues to allow for some amendments, 
bipartisan amendments, amendments that would have support on both sides 
of the aisle. They don't want it. They have simply refused to allow any 
Republican amendment or any amendment that even their own side wants 
that would have attraction to Republican Members.

Too many on that side of the aisle want to continue to make this a 
partisan issue when the fact is we went into Iraq on a bipartisan 
basis, two-thirds of the House of Representatives, three-quarters of 
the Senate. The only way we're going to successfully disengage in a way 
that will enable the Iraqis to stand on their own and bring our troops 
home is if we do it on a bipartisan basis. I'm prepared to vote for 
some things that I don't want if it is a bipartisan effort that will 
ultimately lead to some common ground.

So I just want to say that it strikes me that we ask our troops to 
risk their lives. They have one request from us, that we, Republicans 
and Democrats, start working together for the common good of this 
country. That's their one request, and it strikes me that when we 
lecture Prime Minister Maliki, he's trying to run a government by 
consensus, Sunni, Shias and Kurds, all agreeing to take action. He 
could cut out the Sunnis and just simply agree with the Kurds, and they 
could run the government. The Shias and Kurds, they could get their 
more than 50 percent vote, but he is making a sincere effort to try to 
find common ground.

I thank my colleague for having this Special Order. I'd like to 
listen to my other colleagues, maybe jump back in, but my report to 
this Congress is this surge is working. My report to this Congress is 
that the tribal Sunni leaders that have asked us to help have seen a 
tremendous benefit in their provinces, and that has benefited them. 
It's benefited the Iraqi people, and it's benefited our troops. And so 
I can't say what will happen two months from now or four months from 
now; but as God is my witness, we are seeing progress in Iraq, as much 
as some of my colleagues don't want me to say that.