---
---

# None
## `cf1f1eea2cef839328400b5c1ec6b84f`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 8 March 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, we have had hearings this week 
in several of our committees on the situation at Walter Reed Army 
Hospital


and the great public service that the Washington Post has done in their 
investigative piece bringing to light the conditions that our soldiers 
surely should not be in. Naturally, there is no excuse for there to be 
mold and leaking ceilings and pipes that do not work, and so forth. It 
seems to foretell a greater problem since the Post brought this to 
light. More people have asked questions about the delivery of health 
care to our wounded soldiers, sailors, marines, anyone representing the 
United States, particularly in service to the country. There are just 
too many things that keep coming up that the system is not working as 
it should.

A major injury that we are finding coming out of Iraq and Afghanistan 
is traumatic brain injury, called TBI. If it is not diagnosed and 
treated early, then many times the effects are irreversible. Why is it 
that the inspector general of the Department of Veterans Affairs, in an 
IG report last July, July of 2006, points out that in traumatic brain 
injury, if you are in the military compared to if you have that injury 
in the private sector, it takes three times as long?

These are the very young men and women we are supposed to be 
protecting and looking out for their health because we are so 
appreciative of their service to this country. Indeed, that inspector 
general's report points out that if you are in the private sector and 
you have a brain injury, you are at least going to get that treatment 
within 2 weeks. The IG report says that if you are in the military, you 
are not going to get that treatment on average until 6 weeks later. 
That is the difference--a lifetime of debilitation by not having the 
early treatment for that brain injury.

So the word is out.

I am headed to one of four trauma centers in the country. It happens 
to be in my State, a veterans hospital that is one of the specialty 
training centers, specialty centers for brain injuries. It is in the 
Tampa VA hospital, the Haley Hospital. Of course, now that this has 
been in the news, I have been getting these questions about: Are they 
getting the kind of care they should? I hear some people who say yes, I 
hear others who say it is excellent care, and I hear others who say it 
is not. Well, we are going to find out. That is the responsibility of 
this Senator from the State of Florida. That is the responsibility of 
this Senator, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.

Let me tell my colleagues what else we are hearing. We are hearing 
that in this bureaucratic tape, this is what is happening: The soldier 
comes back from Iraq, is diagnosed with the traumatic brain injury, 
somebody makes a decision that they ought to go to one of those four VA 
hospitals that have a specialty for brain injury, but they do not get 
the paperwork processed to get them out of the military so that they 
are then eligible for the veterans. Believe it or not, I heard of cases 
where they send the soldier down there, they get to the veterans 
hospital for brain treatment, and they say: We cannot treat you; you 
have not been released from the military.

How bad is that bureaucratic mumbo-jumbo? Who is the victim? The very 
people for whom we have set up a system of military hospitals and 
veterans hospitals to try to give the best care to. This nonsense has 
got to stop.

It is my hope that as a result of the Post bringing to light 
deplorable conditions in Building 18 at Walter Reed Army Hospital, it 
is scratching back the surface to see what is underneath, and whether 
it be the conditions in a hospital, veterans or military, whether it be 
bureaucratic handling of that hospital, military or veterans, or 
whether it is the administrative bureaucratic handling of the patient 
between the two systems, that we get it straightened out. We owe no 
less to the people who are sacrificing for this country.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.