# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `cf3d22c6e165789740ccb793bbe72c3e`
`Mrs. BOXER — 28 March 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I say to my friend from North Dakota, 
thank you for being here to talk about this issue because there is a 
huge misconception out there that is being perpetrated by the 
administration and that is that there is something wrong with the 
Democrats in Congress who are insisting the emergency needs of the 
American people be met in this bill.

Mr. President, in my question to the Senator from North Dakota, I was 
trying to make the point that history will show these emergency 
supplementals have always been used to help the American people. After 
all, it is their taxpayer dollars being used. The reason I wanted to 
take the floor this afternoon is because there are a number of 
amendments coming that will strip from this bill the help for the 
American people they deserve. Many of these people are the ''salt of 
the Earth'' people that we all know, that we visit, and I will talk 
about them in a minute. I will talk about the hardships they have gone 
through.

Here is something interesting. If you look at the Senate's Web site--
this is not part of my Web site; this is the Senate's Web site, so it 
is written with Republicans and Democrats--you will find a glossary of 
terms that is intended to help the public understand what it is we are 
talking about when we use terms of art on the floor, such as 
''emergency supplemental appropriation.''

The Senate glossary--and remember it is bipartisan--states this:




 Supplemental appropriations generally are made to cover 


 emergencies, such as disaster relief, or other needs deemed 


 too urgent to be postponed until the enactment of next year's 


 regular appropriations act.


So the supplemental appropriations are meant to cover emergencies in 
America. Now, the President has tried to lead people astray when he 
says: No, no, this is only about the war in Iraq; I want all of the 
money to go to Iraq. I don't want any money to go to the people of 
America because this isn't the right vehicle to take care of those 
problems. Not true.