# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `cf40db7052f55d3ada4c31e6de96bd1c`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 1 November 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise today to join my Ranking Member 
on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, Senator 
Collins, in introducing bipartisan legislation to strengthen our 
Nation's ability to deter, detect, prevent, and respond to attacks 
using improvised explosive devices, IED, in the U.S.

As we have seen in Iraq, London, and Germany, IEDs are a weapon of 
choice for terrorists. The reality is that an IED is relatively easy 
and inexpensive to make and can cause mass casualties, even to armored 
military personnel. IEDs are a global threat, and the American public, 
here at home, is not immune.

Federal efforts to address this threat, however, have not been 
adequate. The Department of Homeland Security, Office of Bombing 
Prevention, which is the Department's lead agent for IED countermeasure 
coordination, is currently operating with a substantially reduced 
budget of $5 million, down from the $14 million it received in fiscal 
years 2005 and 2006. Only $6 million has been requested for 2008. By 
contrast, the DHS Office of Health Affairs, which has a similar 
coordination responsibility for biosecurity and medical preparedness, 
has a proposed budget for personnel and coordination activities of $28 
million for 2008. Given the likelihood of an IED attack, we need to 
make a comparable commitment in this area. As Secretary Chertoff said 
in an October 19 speech, ''although we can conceive of a terrorist 
attack that would be focused on a biological infection or some kind of 
a chemical spray, the reality is the vast majority of terrorist attacks 
are conducted with bombs. And of those, the vast majority are 
improvised explosive devices.''

The National Bombing Prevention Act of 2007, NBPA, would formally 
authorize the Office of Bombing Prevention, OBP, and increase its 
budget to $25 million. In addition to leading bombing prevention 
activities within DHS, OBP would be directed to coordinate with other 
Federal, State, and local agencies and fill the existing gaps that are 
not covered by another Federal agency's current bombing prevention 
efforts. For example, OBP would work with state and local officials to 
conduct a national analysis of bomb squad capabilities. This type of 
comprehensive assessment does not currently exist at any level of 
government, yet it is integral to understanding what resources are 
available in the event of an explosion and where we should invest in 
order to better prepare the Nation as a whole. OBP would also improve 
information sharing with state and local bomb squads by providing 
regular updates on terrorist tactics, techniques, and procedures.

The NBPA would require the President to deliver a long awaited 
National Strategy for Improvised Explosive Devices. This Strategy was 
supposed to be delivered to Congress by DHS in January 2007 but was 
then reassigned to the Department of Justice by presidential directive. 
Turf battles have caused further delay. This is simply unacceptable. 
Regardless of who takes the lead, the Nation must have a coherent 
strategy guiding its counter IED efforts that will clarify the roles 
and responsibilities of all Federal agencies.

Finally, our legislation would require DHS to establish a program 
expediting


the transfer of counter IED technology to first responders. Under this 
program, the Department would work with other Federal agencies, 
including the Department of Defense, the private sector, and state and 
local bomb experts to identify existing technologies that could help 
deter, detect, prevent, or respond to an explosive attack. Often, there 
is a significant lag time between the research and development of such 
technologies and deployment by the end user. This bill would hold DHS 
accountable for seeing products through to the deployment phase. 
Specifically, DHS would be required to develop an electronic 
countermeasures capability to disable radio controlled bombs. Radio 
''jammers'' have been developed by DoD for Iraq and Afghanistan, but 
that technology needs to be significantly modified for the civilian 
environment.

Improvised explosive devices are one of the most popular weapons 
terrorists are using today. They can be easily assembled from 
instructions available on the Internet with readily available chemicals 
such as peroxide or ammonium nitrate. And, most importantly, terrorists 
all over the world have demonstrated their intent and ability to use 
these weapons to kill and maim large numbers of people. If DHS is to 
plan effectively for future attacks here at home, it must have a 
cohesive and robust defense against the most likely threats. I ask my 
colleagues to join us in ensuring DHS and its partners have the 
necessary tools to protect the U.S. from an improvised explosive 
device.