---
---

# None
## `cf40a4d68e4f0cda57b35f979a99418f`
`Mr. BOYD of Florida — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. BOYD of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 
3087.

This bill requires the administration to develop a new, redefined 
mission regarding our involvement and long term interests in Iraq.

This body has taken many votes this year on the issue of Iraq, but 
this is the first bill to address this issue that has come to the Floor 
with overwhelming bipartisan support.

A bipartisan approach is critical to put an end to the political 
infighting that has thus far stymied congressional debate on Iraq.

As a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense and a 
Vietnam veteran myself, it is my utmost concern to see that our troops 
are receiving the resources that they need, but I will continue to 
assert that our military has done all that we have asked it to do and 
now it is time for the Iraqi Government to take responsibility for the 
country's future.

Given that, our Commander in Chief owes this Congress and the 
American people a plan for a redefined mission that reflects this 
reality.

I have always believed that bipartisanship equals progress and in no 
other situation is the need more immediate. In fact, I hope that my 
colleagues know me as a person who puts these words into action. In the 
near future, I will be leading a bipartisan congressional delegation to 
visit our men and women stationed in Iraq.

It is my sincere hope that our upcoming bipartisan trip and this vote 
today begin a new era where Members continue to join together on areas 
in which we find agreement in order to make progress for the good of 
the American people and our great country.