# HONORING STAFF SERGEANT ERIC DUCKWORTH, UNITED STATES ARMY
## `cf4c18a39ee50ed0ba7c88a9a3b33fd5`
`Mr. POE — 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. POE. Madam Speaker, in America's first war, fighting for freedom 
it was said by Patrick Henry, the great orator, ''The battle, sir, is 
not to the strong alone; it is to the vigilant, the active and to the 
brave.'' We are fortunate that those words still ring true today and 
that American soldiers overseas carry those values into battle.

One such warrior was Staff Sergeant Eric Duckworth. Army Staff 
Sergeant Eric Duckworth was killed in the line of duty in Iraq just a 
few days ago, on October 10, when he was leading a convoy and his 
vehicle was hit by an IED, an improvised explosive device, on the side 
of the road.

Madam Speaker, Sergeant Duckworth was 26 years of age and on his 
second tour in Iraq. He graduated from Clear Lake High School in 
Houston, Texas, in 1999, and while in high school, he wanted to 
participate in the military, so he joined the Reserve Officers Training 
Corps, the ROTC. Of course, as soon as he graduated from high school, 
he joined the United States Army.

His parents, Michael and Barbara Duckworth, of The Woodlands, Texas, 
say that for as long as they can remember, their son Eric wanted to 
serve his country in public service both in law enforcement and in the 
military. His father, Michael, described him as an outgoing and good-
humored son. He further said, ''Eric was full of love and laughter and 
a Godly spirit, but, above all, he was a true soldier and a proud 
warrior.''

When I talked to Michael about his son Eric, he told me that Eric's 
only two wishes were that he serve in the military and that he also 
serve in law enforcement. Those wishes were granted when he was a 
military police officer and also a member of the United States Army.

Sergeant Duckworth was also a husband and a father. He is survived by 
his wife of 5 years, Sonya, and they have three children: Kaylynn, age 
10; Madison, age 4; and young Michael, age 1. Eric's mom, Barbara, 
would send what I call ''care packages'' overseas to her son Eric, and 
what she included in those packages tells us a lot about Eric


and his personality. He received beef jerky, bubble gum, NASCAR 
magazines, and Dallas Cowboy T-shirts.

Eric said that the Iraqi people were grateful to Americans for their 
sacrifice in Iraq. Sergeant Duckworth also said it was his destiny and 
his belief that he should be an American soldier. He shared that belief 
with his mother in their last conversation they had together before he 
was killed in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, Eric's father spoke of his pride in his son's firm 
belief and dedication to the mission in Iraq. Eric's father, Michael, 
said Eric believed in his purpose, and his children, his nieces, his 
nephews will all grow up in a better world because of Eric's dedication 
to America.

So not only Eric, but the whole Duckworth family felt it was 
important that Staff Sergeant Eric Duckworth serve in the United States 
Army overseas. Sergeant Duckworth's service to his family and the Army 
and this country will always be remembered. Of course he is one of 
those few proud American heroes.

Madam Speaker, this is a photograph of Staff Sergeant Eric Duckworth. 
He was a real person that lived and died for the rest of us. His 
service reminds me of the lyrics to a song written by Toby Keith that 
is titled, ''The American Soldier.'' Part of those lyrics say, ''I will 
always do my duty, no matter what the price. I have counted up the 
cost, but I know the sacrifice. I don't want to die, but if dying is 
asked of me, I will bare that cross with honor, because freedom doesn't 
come free. I'm an American soldier, an American soldier.''

Staff Sergeant Duckworth, America appreciates your sacrifice on the 
alter of freedom for the rest of us, and we also appreciate the 
sacrifice of the entire Duckworth family down in Houston, Texas. We are 
sympathetic and grieve with this family, but are proud of their son who 
served in the United States Army.

And that's just the way it is.
