# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `cf549bc28008431a6134df324bb43366`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of this bill which will provide our service men and women the vital 
support they need to carry out their missions in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
This bill also strongly supports America's veterans by including $13.4 
billion in funds for Vietnam veterans exposed to agent orange. And I 
thank Chairman Obey for his strong support of this provision.

Last October VA Secretary Shinseki announced that the VA had found 
linkages between agent orange and three additional diseases, 
Parkinson's disease, ischemic heart disease and B cell


leukemia. This presumption allows veterans who served in the Vietnam 
War and who have these diseases to have these benefits expedited.

Rick Weidman, director of government relations at the Vietnam 
Veterans of America, says this bill ''provides some measure of justice 
to these very ill Vietnam veterans and their families by making the 
funds available for vitally needed health care and just compensation to 
replace their lost earnings due to these illnesses.''

Passage of this bill, Madam Speaker, would mean that 86,000 Vietnam 
veterans or their survivors, at long last, who were previously denied 
disability compensation, would now be eligible for retroactive 
payments. In addition, the VA anticipates that approximately 67,400 new 
claims will be filed.

It is important that we pass this bill in support of both our active 
duty service men and women and our veterans to send a clear message 
that our country is grateful for those who serve today and will never 
forget those who served in years past.

I urge swift passage of this bill.