# None
## `cf5cbb4d651c7a842693ed70391fa14d`
`Mr. DODD — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, I thank my friend and colleague from 
Wisconsin. I, once again, express my gratitude to


him for raising this issue, as he has on numerous occasions in the 
past. It is no surprise whatsoever that he would do so again on this 
very critical piece of legislation.

Let me say that my friend from Mississippi, for whom I have the 
highest regard and respect, has a job to do to get this bill out. We 
understand that as well. But I would underscore the points made by the 
Senator from Wisconsin. There is no other more important issue, I would 
posit, than the one which is the subject of this amendment: that is, 
the continued military involvement in Iraq and the important question 
of our increased safety and security, and the possibility of Iraq 
reaching some reconciliation with its political and religious leaders. 
Is there still a rationale for our continued presence there, as posited 
by those in favor of this policy?

I would argue that there is not. This subject matter is about as 
critical as it gets for this body to debate. In fact, one may make the 
case that debating two hours on an amendment such as this is hardly 
adequate time when you consider what is at stake, not just in terms of 
contemporary issues, but the long-term security interests of our 
country. Those interests are going to be affected and, I would argue, 
adversely affected by a policy that raises serious questions.

Last month, I came to the floor of this body to speak in favor of a 
similar amendment offered by the Senator of Wisconsin, along with 
Senator Reid. It was, I am convinced, a sensible plan for ending our 
disastrous policy in Iraq. The reasons for doing so are so crystal 
clear to the public; they hardly need rehearsing here, but for the sake 
of those who may not have followed it, let me summarize those arguments 
briefly. I would ask my colleagues to forgive me for being redundant, 
but I find the following exchange that occurred just a few days ago so 
astounding and so telling of the folly of this conflict that it bears 
repeating.

It comes from two full days of testimony before Congress by General 
Petraeus. Let me say that I have tremendous admiration for General 
Petraeus. I don't know him personally, but I admire his service to our 
country. It has been a distinguished service. Others have had 
difficulty with it. I don't. He is not the architect of policy; as a 
senior military official, he is asked to execute policy. So if people 
are upset about policy, their opposition should be toward those who 
create the policy, not those we ask to carry it out.

There was an exchange between Senator Warner of Virginia and General 
Petraeus before the Senate Armed Services Committee that I thought was 
incredible in its simplicity and directness, and I admire General 
Petraeus for his candor and honesty in answering the question Senator 
Warner posed to him. It was maybe the most direct and serious question 
raised in all those hearings, and it goes to the heart of all this 
debate.

The question to the General from Senator Warner was the following:




 Do you feel that the war in Iraq is making America safer?


A very simple question--not any more complicated than that. General 
Petraeus said:




 I believe that this is indeed the best course of action to 


 achieve our objectives in Iraq.


Senator Warner followed up with:




 Does it make America safer?


General Petraeus's answer was:




 I don't know, actually.


I don't know. I don't know, actually. To the families of the 3,808 
men and women who have lost their lives, this is cold comfort indeed, 
that the commanding general has not even convinced himself that this 
war serves our security.

That is the fundamental issue, Mr. President. The basic question we 
must ask ourselves in matters such as these, first and foremost: Does 
this policy make us safer, more secure, less vulnerable, less isolated 
in the world? If you don't know the answer to that--and I suspect even 
the general may have some serious doubts about it or he wouldn't have 
been as candidly vague in his answer here--we must reexamine whether it 
is in our interest to pursue that policy. Frankly, I think there are 
overwhelming numbers of us here who have, at the very least, serious 
doubts about this tactic--and that is what it is; it is not a strategy 
but a tactic--to achieve our greater security and safety. If your 
answer to that question is no, as it is for me and I think for many 
others, the evidence is overwhelming here that we are turning Iraq into 
a Petri dish for jihadists and terrorists.

We have every other nation packing its bags and leaving. So this 
coalition of the willing is evaporating. Every other issue we are 
grappling with internationally is seen through the prism of Iraq. 
Whether it is Darfur, Latin America, Asia, or whatever else the issue 
is, it is all seen through that prism. So not only does it affect the 
outcome in Iraq, it is affecting every other consideration in which 
this Nation is involved. For anyone who believes we are safer, more 
secure, less vulnerable, less isolated as a result of pursuing this 
policy, I have serious reservations, as I believe General Petraeus did 
in his answer to our colleague. The consensus is strong and growing, I 
believe, that our current course has failed to make Iraq safe and make 
America safer--that it is, in fact, making this country less safe and 
so must change dramatically.

The Constitution does not give us the power to sit here and decide on 
a day-to-day, hourly basis how to manage the affairs of the Pentagon, 
and rightfully so. Five hundred and thirty-five Members of Congress 
with disparate political views cannot sit here and dictate on a day-to-
day basis how this ought to be managed. We are given one power, one 
overwhelming power: the power of the purse. That is what makes this 
body unique. So I think that any other exhausting legislative language 
dictating how this conflict ought to be managed, with all due respect 
to its authors, is not well placed. We have one responsibility: to 
decide, yes or no, this is a matter which deserves the continued 
appropriation of America's money, its tax money, to finance it. That is 
the question. You either believe it is or it isn't.

So the amendment being offered by Senator Feingold goes to the very 
heart of the power this body has when it comes to the matter of Iraq 
and whether we fund it. If you believe we should go forward, that we 
are safer, more secure, then you have an obligation to fund it. If you 
believe it is not doing that, then you have a commensurate obligation, 
and that is to say enough is enough and to stop. That is our judgment, 
our job, to make that decision. I am not suggesting that it is not a 
pleasant one.

General Petraeus can be relatively agnostic on the issue. He is a 
general; it is his job to be agnostic, except in the confines of 
private conversation. But we don't have that luxury to be agnostic on 
these questions. We were elected to do a job, to represent our 
constituencies and, in a broader sense, the people at large, and we 
have to decide whether the continued investment of their tax dollars is 
worthy of this cause. I don't believe it is.

I believe the time has come--and long ago--for us to come up with a 
different policy that would offer Iraq more hope and our own interests 
in the region a far greater prospect for stability, a policy that would 
reestablish our presence and our moral authority in the world when it 
comes to the myriad other issues we must grapple with as a people.

What more could possibly happen to quell the violence between and 
among Iraq's Sunnis and Shiites to end this civil war?

Conversely, how much more do we sacrifice in the absence of a 
reconciliation which has not happened?

We all know the honest answers to those questions. And knowing them, 
it seems evident the administration's last-ditch supporters here 
are selling us little more than a policy of blind faith. Do the 
President's supporters think this can go on forever, or are they simply 
planning for it to go on until the end of the President's term and then 
hand it off to someone else? Will they come to this floor and claim we 
are invulnerable?


If General Petraeus does not know, actually--his honest answer to 
Senator Warner's question--whether this war is making us safer, let's 
ask another question: Is this war endangering our security?

So the choice we face--and I believe it is a choice--is a clear one. 
It doesn't make it a painless one. In fact, I haven't been part of a 
more painful debate in all my years in this body, considering the 
length it has gone on. But to govern is to make such choices,


even--especially--when they are painful. Our choice not between victory 
and defeat, which has never been the issue from the very outset, even 
though the strongest advocates of this policy have always argued that. 
The issue was never the victory or defeat of our military in Iraq. It 
was always to create the space and opportunity for reconciliation, a 
positive political conclusion in Iraq.

The choice is either trying to end Iraq's civil war through the use 
of military force, or demanding that Iraq's political leaders take 
responsibility through solving their civil conflict through the only 
means possible--through reconciliation and compromise.

Yet we are now going into nearly the fifth year, and even with the 
pleadings of an American President, the Vice President, senior military 
people, and Lord knows how many Members of Congress, of both political 
parties--even as recently as a few weeks ago--the political leadership 
of that country has not taken advantage. It has not found compromise.

If you argue that the surge has created space, it certainly hasn't 
created a reconciliation. It doesn't seem anyone is able to persuade 
the political leadership of that country to do what all of us 
understand they must do, and that is to decide whether they want to be 
a country and work with each other, despite their differences. No one 
yet has succeeded in that effort. And I don't believe it is likely to 
happen if we continue the policy we are following.

So I believe the American people are far ahead of us on this issue. 
They have made their choice. It now seems to be our job, our solemn 
responsibility, to turn those choices into facts.

This is precisely what the Feingold amendment does, by cutting off 
funds from all combat operations in Iraq after June 30 of next year, 
with four exceptions: counterterrorism operations, protecting 
government personnel and infrastructure, training the Iraqi security 
forces, and force protection.

If all of the reasons for supporting this amendment aren't compelling 
enough, I might add another as well. Almost 5 years into the occupation 
of Iraq, the administration continues to ask us to fund the war through 
supplemental funding bills. It is simply astonishing to me to think 
that President Bush, hasn't figured out by now what this war costs on a 
regular basis. He ought to fund it through the regular, long-standing 
budget process and not hide its true cost from the American people by 
continuing to ask for supplemental funding, sinking this Nation further 
and further into a several-trillion-dollar debt.

Mr. President, let's be under no illusions as to what all Defense 
authorization and appropriations bills are supporting. They are 
supporting the continuation of our troop presence in Iraq. We cannot 
artificially separate a Defense funding bill from an Iraq supplemental 
bill. This is an Iraq bill, have no doubts about it.

This legislation is what will make our continued military occupation 
of Iraq go forward for many months to come--and this amendment is our 
chance to stop it. I would argue it is probably the last one until 
maybe sometime next year, when another supplemental bill comes up, and 
then we will be talking about 2009 and beyond. So we are already 
committing ourselves into the next decade of this century.

Moments arrive, Mr. President, and this is such a moment. Moments 
come and then they pass, and speeches are given later about what we 
wished we had done, or what we wish we had known--statements that will 
have no value whatsoever. We tolerate a mistake once, not twice, when 
it comes to this policy. This is the moment, this is the hour, this is 
the 2 hours we have to debate: 120 minutes is what we get to debate a 
policy that is costing us billions of dollars and thousands of lives 
and disrupting, I believe, very profoundly and seriously, the 
leadership of our country in world affairs.

So I urge my colleagues in the remaining moments of this debate to 
give Senator Feingold a chance here and that we support this particular 
effort. Let us rise to this opportunity while we have it. Let us ensure 
now, while we have the chance, that all of our combat troops are out of 
Iraq by next summer.

Our men and women in uniform have served there with bravery, 
devotion, sacrifice, and incredible distinction, but there is nothing 
they can do now to bring about the political reconciliation Iraq so 
desperately needs. The choice belongs to the people of Iraq and their 
political and religious leaders. And no further shedding of American 
blood can make that choice come faster or come out right. I urge my 
colleagues to support the Feingold amendment and bring an end to this 
disastrous engagement in a desperate land.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.