---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `cf5f13b484e1b1683f1d379bd23c5da3`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Speaker, according to our military leaders, the 
status quo is not working in Iraq. Major General Batiste said, ''The 
administration got it terribly wrong and I applaud Congress for 
stepping up.'' Lieutenant General Odom said our bill ''gives the 
President a chance to pull back from a disastrous course, reorient U.S. 
strategy to achieve regional stability, and win help from many other 
countries, the only way peace will eventually be achieved.''

Our military has done everything the President and the Congress and 
American people have asked it. The President asked our men and women in 
uniform to invade a country, and they did. The President asked them to 
go to war against a nation's army, and they did. The President asked 
them to seize a capital, and they did. The President asked the men and 
women in uniform to depose a dictator, and they did. The President 
asked the men and women in uniform to capture that dictator, and they 
did.

Given all these military achievements by our Armed Forces, why do we 
have today the worst national security crisis in over a generation? 
There is not now, nor has there ever been, a political plan that 
matches the military leadership that we have seen from our Armed 
Forces. But this administration has offered no real plan for success, 
and our troops have been asked to back the Iraqi Government that has 
yet to stand up for itself. The entire plan over the last 4 years 
offered by the President and the Republican Congress has been more 
troops, more time, more money, and more of the same, even though we 
know that the challenges we face today require more than the status 
quo. The President's policy has come down to the status quo plus.

Secretary of Defense Gates had it right: ''Any solution in Iraq is 
not purely military but also political.''

Our plan holds the Iraqi people accountable for their own nation. It 
requires the Iraqi people to meet the benchmarks for success, the same 
benchmarks that the President outlined on January 10 before he turned 
against his own benchmarks. We will give our troops and commanders the 
resources and freedom to do their job. But we will do the one thing 
that a Republican Congress has refused to do over the years: demand 
accountability from the Iraqis.

I urge my colleagues to support the rule and to support this 
legislation.