---
---

# THE BUDGET
## `cf6c992ffb0a68ffeec6f00f44631aa6`
`Mr. CAMPBELL of California — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. CAMPBELL of California. And if the lady will yield for one last 
parting comment, as you look at this chart, if you look at this chart, 
because you will hear some people in the majority party talk about that 
the whole problem is the war in Iraq and it's defense spending. If you 
look at this chart over time, the width of this green defense bar 
doesn't change that much over time. Now, who knows what will happen, 
but projections are that defense spending as a percentage of the 
economy, which is historically not that high right now, but that it 
wouldn't change over time. The big problems, the ones that are small 
here and get really fat there, are if you take the two biggest. One is 
Medicare and the other is interest on the debt.

Interest on the debt gets big because we keep throwing deficit after 
deficit after deficit. The way to get that down is simple: Balance the 
budget, stop running deficits. But we haven't, as I mentioned, except 
for 4 years, I think over the last 40-something, we haven't had the 
will here to do that.

The other thing is Medicare. And what's so interesting is that that 
is government-paid-for medical insurance for older Americans, for 
seniors. But you have people out there now advocating that we should 
have Medicare for everyone, which you've got a problem with Medicare as 
it is, a huge problem in that it would almost take up all of your tax 
money by 2080, almost take up all your tax money all by itself.

So, I thank the lady from Tennessee very much and yield back.