---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `cf73a1953f55ac85d031069e6f8d3db1`
`Mr. LEVIN — 13 July 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, on behalf of the Armed Services Committee, 
I am pleased to bring S. 1390, the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010, to the Senate floor. This bill will fully fund 
the year 2010 budget request of $680 billion for national security 
activities in the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy.

The Senate Armed Services Committee has a long tradition of setting 
aside partisanship and working together in the interest of the national 
defense. This year follows that tradition. I am pleased that S. 1390 
was reported to the Senate on a unanimous 26-to-nothing vote of the 
committee. This vote stands as a testament to the common commitment of 
all of our Members to supporting our men and women in uniform. I 
particularly thank Senator McCain, our ranking minority member, for his 
strong support throughout the committee process and, of course, for the 
dedication he has shown to national defense throughout his Senate 
career.

Earlier this year, the Armed Services Committee reported out the 
Weapons Systems Acquisition Reform Act of 2009 with similar bipartisan 
support. In less than 2 months, we were able to get the bill passed by 
the Senate, complete conference with the House, and have the President 
sign it into law. It is my hope that we will be able to move with 
similar dispatch on the bill now before us.

This bill contains many important provisions that will improve the 
quality of life of our men and women in uniform, provide needed support 
and assistance to our troops on the battlefields in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, make the investments we need to meet the challenges of the 
21st century, and require needed reforms in the management of the 
Department of Defense.

First and foremost, the bill before us continues the increases in 
compensation and quality of life that our service men and women and 
their families deserve as they face the hardships imposed by continuing 
military operations around the world. For example, the bill contains 
provisions that would, first, authorize a 3.4-percent across-the-board 
pay raise for all uniformed military personnel, and that represents 
half a percent more than the budget request and the annual rate of 
inflation. The bill authorizes a 30,000 increase in the Army's Active-
Duty end strength during fiscal years 2011 and 2012 in order to 
increase dwell time and reduce the stress created by repeated 
deployments. The bill authorizes payment of over 25 types of bonuses 
and special pays aimed at encouraging enlistment, reenlistment, and 
continued service by Active-Duty and Reserve military personnel. We 
increase the authorization for the Homeowners' Assistance Program by 
$350 million in order to provide relief to homeowners in the Armed 
Forces who are required to relocate because of base closures or change 
of station orders. And we increase the maximum amount of supplemental 
subsistence allowance from $500 to $1,100 per month to ensure that 
servicemembers and their families do not have to be dependent on food 
stamps.

The bill also includes important funding and authorities needed to 
provide our troops the equipment and support they will continue to need 
as long as they remain on the battlefields in Iraq and Afghanistan. For 
example, the bill contains provisions that would provide $6.7 billion 
for the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected, MRAP, vehicle fund, including 
an increase of $1.2 billion above the President's budget request for 
MRAP all-terrain vehicles which will be deployed in Afghanistan. The 
bill fully funds the President's budget request for U.S. Special 
Operations Command and adds $131 million for unfunded requirements 
identified by the commander of Special Operations Command. The bill 
provides full funding for the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
Organization to continue the development and deployment of technologies 
to defeat these attacks. And we provide nearly $7.5 billion to train 
and equip the Afghan National Army and the Afghan National Police so 
they can carry more of the burden of defending their own country 
against the Taliban.

The bill would also implement most of the budget recommendations made 
by the Secretary of Defense to terminate troubled programs and apply 
the savings to higher priority activities of the Department. For 
example, the bill will terminate the Air Force Combat Search and 
Rescue-X helicopter program, CSAR-X. It will terminate the VH-71 
Presidential helicopter. It would cancel and restructure the manned 
ground vehicle portion of the Army's


Future Combat System Program. It would stop the growth of the Army 
brigade combat teams, the BCTs, at 45 instead of 48, while maintaining 
the planned increase in end strength. It would end production of the C-
17 Program. It would terminate the Multiple Kill Vehicle Program, 
cancel the kinetic energy interceptor, cancel the second airborne laser 
prototype aircraft, and it would authorize $900 million of additional 
funding in the budget request to field more theater missile defense 
systems, the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, the THAAD, and the 
standard missile-3 interceptors, and converting additional AEGIS ships 
for missile defense to defend our forward-deployed forces and allies 
against the many short- and medium-range missiles held by countries 
such as North Korea and Iran.

The bill supports the decision of Secretary Gates to stop deployment 
of the ground-based interceptors at 30 missiles and to focus on 
improving the capability of this system to be more reliable and 
effective than the current system against the limited threat of long-
range missiles.

The bill also supports the decision to continue production of those 
ground-based interceptors that are on contract and to use them as test 
missiles and as spares. By fielding the most modern version of the 
interceptor, using modern silos and conducting operationally realistic 
testing with the additional missiles instead of putting them in silos, 
the system will provide, in Secretary Gates' words, a ''robust 
capability'' that is ''fully adequate to protect us against a North 
Korean threat for a number of years.'' According to testimony to the 
committee, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the combatant commanders 
agreed that their highest priority for the GMD--ground missile 
defense--system was to have 30 interceptors with improved reliability, 
availability, and effectiveness. The bill before us again supports 
Secretary Gates' decision to field that improved capability.

I am disappointed that the committee voted on a very close vote not 
to terminate the F-22 aircraft production program, as requested by the 
Secretary of Defense and as supported by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. I 
plan to join with Senator McCain in seeking to overturn that decision 
during floor consideration of this bill.

Finally, the bill contains a number of provisions that will help 
improve the management of the Department of Defense and other Federal 
agencies. For example, the bill contains provisions that would, first, 
improve Department of Defense financial management by requiring the 
Department to engage in business process reengineering before acquiring 
new information technology systems and to submit regular reports on its 
progress toward auditable financial statements.

Second, it requires the Department of Defense to develop a 
comprehensive plan to address longstanding problems in its inventory 
management systems which lead it to acquire and store hundreds of 
millions of dollars worth of unneeded items.

Third, it places a moratorium on public-private competitions under 
OMB circular A-76 until the Department complies with an existing 
statutory requirement to develop information needed to manage its 
service contractors, plan for its civilian employee workforce, and 
identify functions that would be subject to public-private competition.

Fourth, we would authorize the Secretary to establish a new defense 
civilian leadership program to help recruit, train, and retain highly 
qualified civilian employees to help lead the Department of Defense 
over the next 20 years.

A very important provision in this bill is section 1031, which would 
address the problems that exist with military commissions. The military 
commissions provisions we have in law today do not provide basic 
guarantees of fairness identified by our Supreme Court. The existing 
provisions place a cloud, therefore, over military commissions and have 
led some to conclude that the use of military commissions can never be 
fair, credible, or consistent with our basic principles of justice.

Earlier this year, the President stated that military commissions can 
be reformed to meet basic standards of fairness needed for them to play 
a legitimate role in prosecuting violations of the law of war. In his 
May 21, 2009, speech at the National Archives, President Obama stated 
that:




 Military commissions have a history in the United States 


 dating back to George Washington and the Revolutionary War. 


 They are an appropriate venue for trying detainees for 


 violations of the laws of war. They allow for the protection 


 of sensitive sources and methods of intelligence-gathering; 


 they allow for the safety and security of participants; and 


 for the presentation of evidence gathered from the 


 battlefield that cannot always be effectively presented in 


 federal courts.


The President continued:




 . . . Instead of using the flawed commissions of the last 


 seven years, my administration is bringing our commissions in 


 line with the rule of law. . . . [W]e will make our military 


 commissions a more credible and effective means of 


 administering justice, and I will work with Congress and 


 members of both parties, as well as legal authorities across 


 the political spectrum, on legislation to ensure that these 


 commissions are fair, legitimate, and effective.


We agree with the President, and section 1031 reflects our 
determination to reform the commissions. In its 2006 decision in the 
Hamdan case, the Supreme Court held that Common Article 3 of the Geneva 
Conventions requires that the trial of detainees for violations of the 
law of war be conducted in a manner consistent with the procedures 
applicable in trials by courts-martial and that any deviation from 
those procedures be justified by ''evident practical need.'' The 
Supreme Court said that the ''uniformity principle is not an inflexible 
one; it does not preclude all departures from the procedures dictated 
for use by courts martial. But any departure must be tailored to the 
exigency that necessitates it.'' That is the standard the Armed 
Services Committee has tried to apply in adopting the procedures for 
military commissions that we have included in our bill.

This new language addresses a long series of problems with the 
procedures currently in law. For example, relative to the admissibility 
of coerced testimony, the provision in our bill would eliminate the 
double standard in existing law under which coerced statements are 
admissible if they were obtained prior to December 30, 2005. They would 
be inadmissible regardless of when the coercion occurred. Relative to 
the use of hearsay evidence, the provision in our bill would eliminate 
the extraordinary language in the existing law which places the burden 
on detainees to prove that hearsay evidence introduced against them is 
not reliable and probative. Relative to the issue of access to 
classified evidence and exculpatory evidence, the provision in our bill 
would eliminate the unique procedures and requirements which have 
hampered the ability of defense teams to obtain information and which 
have led to so much litigation. We would substitute more established 
procedures based on the Uniform Code of Military Justice, the UCMJ, 
with modest changes to ensure that the government cannot be required to 
disclose classified information to unauthorized persons.

Even if we are able to enact new legislation that successfully 
addresses the problems in existing law, we will have a ways to go to 
restore public confidence in military commissions and the justice they 
produce. However, we will not be able to restore confidence in military 
commissions at all unless we first substitute new procedures and 
language to address the problems with the existing statute.

As of today, we have almost 130,000 U.S. soldiers, sailors, airmen, 
and marines on the ground in Iraq. Over the course of the next fiscal 
year, we will undertake the difficult task of drawing down these Iraqi 
numbers while maintaining security and stability on the ground. At the 
same time, we have increased our forces in Afghanistan, with close to 
60,000 troops engaged in increasingly active combat and combat support 
operations, and more are on the way.

While there are many issues where there may not be a consensus, we 
all know--and there is a consensus on this--that we must provide our 
troops the support they need as long as they remain in harm's way. 
Senate action on the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 
2010 will improve the quality of life for our men and women in uniform. 
It will give them the tools they need to remain the most effective 
fighting force in the world. And very importantly, it will send an 
important


message that we, as a nation, stand behind them and are deeply grateful 
for their service.

So we look forward to working with colleagues to pass this important 
legislation. Again, I thank Senator McCain for all he and his staff 
have done to bring this bill to the floor.

I yield the floor.