---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `cf7985bd0ce87d2b06266540d163853e`
`Mrs. McCASKILL — 26 September 2007`

---


Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, today we have an important opportunity 
to do some good-government. It is so hard in the context of the 
conflict in Iraq to get beyond some of the political posturing that 
has, frankly, been inevitable. As campaigns have occurred, and we have 
campaigns looming next year, there has been a tendency for this body to 
separate at the middle and not find common ground.

We have an opportunity this afternoon to find common ground, and my 
job over the next few minutes is to try to convince my colleagues that 
this attempt to create a War Contracting Commission is not about 
politics, it is about reform.

It would be hard not to notice the scandals that have occurred in 
relationship to war contracting. I come to this as a student of history 
and a huge fan of Harry Truman. I am honored to stand at his desk as I 
speak today. I am honored to follow in his tradition when he said: War 
profiteering is unacceptable, especially when you realize it is 
skimming away and denying the men and women who are fighting resources.

In a very modest fashion, at a time that he, frankly, was not 
supporting his President, who was of his party, he was saying to the 
President: We need to do some reform here, even though the President 
was a Democrat, just as he was, and he began looking at war 
profiteering. Frankly, that is where Harry Truman first made his mark 
in the history books of this country. It was because he realized this 
was so much bigger than being a Democrat or Republican; it was about 
how we behave when we place men and women in danger on behalf of our 
Nation. In that vein, this amendment is going to try to take the 
politics out of the issue of war contracting and try to make things 
better. Let me first summarize what the amendment is going to do.

It will establish an independent and bipartisan eight-member 
Commission--bipartisan eight-member Commission, four Republicans and 
four Democrats. They will study and investigate Federal agency 
contracting for reconstruction in Iraq and Afghanistan, Federal funding 
and contracting for the logistical support of coalition forces in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, Federal contracting for the performance of security 
and intelligence functions in Iraq and Afghanistan, and will expand the 
special inspector general's role to include the responsibility of 
logistical support and security and intelligence functions.

Currently, the special inspector general, Stuart Bowen, only has 
jurisdiction over reconstruction funds in Iraq. Clearly, frankly, as I 
met with contracting officials on my trip to Iraq and Kuwait, where I 
spent most of my time talking to the people who have taken 
responsibility for issuing these contracts and monitoring these 
contracts, as I talked to all of them, I mean at every meeting I kind 
of just went: Oh, my gosh, this is so bad--except when I met with the 
SIGIR.

When I met with the people who worked for the special inspector 
general, I was so comforted as an auditor. These were professional 
auditors, and they were on top of it. They were identifying the 
problem, they saw the shortcomings, whether they were in the way 
contracts were distributed or let or, frankly, not competed or whether 
they were in the monitoring of those contracts, the definitization of 
those contracts, the oversight of those contracts, or the way we 
actually pay bonuses on some of those contracts. All of those issues 
have been looked at by the SIGIR. They have been limited because their 
jurisdiction was limited. This will expand their jurisdiction and, most 
importantly, efficiently, it partners them with the Commission. So we


do not have to hire a huge staff for this Commission; they can utilize 
the work of SIGIR, the work of the Special Inspector General for Iraq 
Reconstruction, to come to conclusions about how we can do better.

Honestly and sincerely--I know Senator Webb and I have talked about 
this at great length--this is not about ''gotcha,'' this is about 
turning the corner, because, let's be honest, will there ever be a time 
where we are not contracting at this kind of level? Will we ever go 
back to a time when we have Active military peeling potatoes and 
cleaning latrines? Will we ever go back to a time where we have Active 
military driving all of the supply trucks? Will we ever go back to a 
time where we have Active military providing all of the security needs? 
I am not sure we will because our struggle is to maintain a Volunteer 
military but provide them all the support they need in terms of 
logistics.

Frankly, there are some efficiencies that could be gained if we were 
contracting in a way that took care of the taxpayer dollars. I do not 
argue that contracting might be necessary--in fact, better in some 
instances--but not the way we are doing it now.

Now, you say: Well, there are a lot of people looking at this. That 
may be true. There have been a lot of journalists who have looked at 
it. We have certainly had various parts of the Department of Defense 
and the military, various inspectors general, and we certainly have 
SIGIR. But let me just point out one thing. As one of the generals said 
to me when I was in Iraq, sheepishly: You know, everything you are 
seeing in terms of mistakes that have been made, most of them were made 
in Bosnia. And by the way, there was a lesson learned after Bosnia, 
except there was one problem: They forgot to learn the lesson.

So if we are going to elevate this problem to where we really 
acknowledge that it is systemic, it is overarching, and it is 
interagency, what do we have if we do a congressional hearing? Well, 
first of all, we are going to have a committee that has more Democrats 
than Republicans on it, so we have at the very outset the allegation 
that it is political. We also have battling turf. Is it Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs? Is it Armed Services? Is it Foreign 
Relations? Because all of the problems swirl around all of those 
committees. How do we get above the interagency issue if we do not have 
this kind of commission?

The makeup of the Commission would be as follows: eight people--two 
people appointed by the majority leader in the Senate, two people 
appointed by the Speaker in the House, one person appointed by the 
minority leader in the Senate, one person appointed by the minority 
leader in the House--that gets you to six--and then one person 
appointed by the President of the United States and one person 
appointed by Secretary Gates at the Department of Defense.

Now, are we going to have a long bureaucratic commission that just 
does a lot of testimony and we do not get to the end? No. They must 
finish their work within 2 years. And they must, as I mentioned before, 
partner with the SIGIR, partner with the Special Inspector General of 
Iraq Reconstruction, in a way that they can efficiently take the work 
that has been done by a number of different agencies and a number of 
different oversight entities, a number of different auditors and bring 
it together and identify how do we, in a contingency, contract in a way 
that takes care of taxpayers' money?


Now, we have an election coming up. I have to tell you, I have talked 
to a couple of my friends across the aisle, and I am concerned about 
the vote on this amendment because there is a knee-jerk reaction. If we 
are talking about war contracting, this is political. This is a 
political witch hunt. It is the D's versus the R's. Let me say that I 
do not think they have taken time to look at how bipartisan this is 
because if they did, I think it would assure them that this is not an 
attempt to do this. We have to fix this, and we have to fix it as 
quickly as possible. It has to do the work within 2 years.

We have modified the amendment to reassure my friends across the 
aisle that, first of all, if one of the President's appointments or if 
one of the other appointments who would represent the Republican Party 
on this Commission were to quit or for some reason not be able to 
continue to serve, someone of the same party must be appointed. So we 
are never going to get to a situation if we have a new President that 
the new President could say: I am going to appoint two. If the new 
President were a Democrat, you would end up with six to two.

The other thing that is important to remember is we have modified the 
amendment so the report of this Commission will come out after next 
year's election, January of 2009. What a great way to start a new 
Congress and a new Presidential term. The new President and the new 
Congress can look at these recommendations--very similar to the 9/11 
Commission, very similar to the Baker-Hamilton Commission--and realize 
there are systemic institutional problems with the way we have been 
contacting and get it fixed.

I have met with the special inspector general for Iraq, Mr. Bowen, 
and he has indicated his support for this approach. This is not about 
in any way diminishing the role of the special inspector general for 
Iraq--just the opposite. It is going to give the special inspector 
general a voice that is above the political din in order to issue 
recommendations. They are going to have their capping report ready next 
March. That will be a great starting point for this Commission, to look 
at SIGIR's capping report of all of their work on Iraq reconstruction.

Let me give you a list of some of the groups that have supported this 
amendment, and we have had many, many groups that have come to the 
support of this.

First, the Project on Government Oversight is very strongly in favor 
of it. POGO particularly supports the independent and bipartisan nature 
of this Commission and the recommended collaboration and consultation 
with the special inspector general and the expansion of the role of the 
special inspector general.

OMB Watch, a Government transparency, fiscal policy, and regulatory 
watchdog nonprofit, wants to applaud the Commission on War Contracting 
Establishment Act; that is, in fact, this amendment.

The Government Accountability Project also has indicated their 
support.

The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America have indicated their 
support.

The Taxpayers for Common Sense has weighed in with their strong 
support of this amendment.

The Federation of State PIRGs, public interest research groups, has 
weighed in with their support also, and Common Cause has indicated this 
is a good government, bipartisan way to fix a serious problem. I may 
return later to talk about some of the scandals. There have been many, 
many scandals. Some of them are heartbreaking. Some of them make you 
want to tear your hair out; whether it is the way some of the 
whistleblowers have been treated, whether it is contracts that have 
ballooned out of control, whether it is paying bonuses to companies 
that haven't done their work, $200 million in bonuses to companies that 
have not done their work. We obviously have issues with the security 
company Blackwater and who has authority over them and to whom are they 
accountable when they take action in the war zone. It is heartbreaking 
that some in our active military--unfortunately, more than a few--have 
been charged and pled guilty to actually taking bribes, tens of 
millions of dollars in their pocket. The Department of State IG, there 
are problems with whether the investigations have been conducted.

Whether you agree that the investigations have occurred in the State 
Department or they have not, why not do a bipartisan commission that 
will look at this fairly under the light of transparency and good 
government, without the cloud of politics and accusations by one 
political party or another?

I am especially proud of the fact that this is an amendment that was 
cosponsored by the nine freshmen Democrats who arrived here in January. 
We, frankly, probably are not as well versed or schooled in some of the 
turf fights that occur between committees. It will be a long time 
before any of us need to worry about whether our committee, as chairman 
or ranking member, has the ability to have a hearing. We look at it 
with the eyes of the general public. We come here fresh from


speaking with thousands and thousands of people we represent. We hear 
their frustration that billions of dollars have been lost, tens upon 
millions of dollars have been stolen, and an incredible amount of money 
wasted in the name of contracting. We also have 20 cosponsors on this 
amendment which we believe is very important. I welcome the support.

I do emphasize that we can behave today like people probably expect. 
We can have a 50-50 vote, and the American public is going to sit back, 
if we have a 50-50 vote, and they are going to say: What in the name is 
going on? How do you get a 50-50 vote on an effort, with four 
Republicans and four Democrats, to get a handle on war contracting? How 
does that happen? We all sit around and talk--I know the Republicans 
talk about it; we talk about it--about our approval ratings and why our 
approval ratings are not higher. This is our chance. This is our chance 
to say to the American public: We are spending your money wisely, 
making sure the men and women who fight get the armor they need and the 
MRAPs they need on their humvees, instead of billions being wasted on 
war profiteering. This is our chance to show them we can come together 
and overcome the politics of this place for the good of our national 
security and the strength of our military.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of quorum.