---
---

# AGRICULTURAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE AND WESTERN STATES EMERGENCY  UNFINISHED BUSINESS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `cf7d159fb17aca97a97b6cb1b6df75d4`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. I thank the gentlelady for the time.

Mr. Speaker, the ranking Republican on the other side said there is 
no other reason for this than to make room for the fiscal year 2008 
spending.

No, this is the unfinished business of the 109th Congress, the 
Republican Congress led by the Republican President in the White House, 
who allowed county and school payments to lapse without lifting a 
finger. Nothing was done. 780 counties are on the brink of losing 
essential services, closing jails, laying off deputy sheriffs, no rural 
law enforcement, no public health, other essential services 
jeopardized, thousands of jobs. 4,400 rural schools, already 
underfunded, struggling to make ends meet for their kids, are going to 
lose money if these payments aren't renewed. And the President says 
that does not meet any reasonable definition of an emergency.

Well, I guess if you live in the White House and you ride in 
motorcades protected by the Secret Service and you fly in a private 
747, you're not too worried about cops in rural areas. You're not too 
worried about public health. You get free health care up at Walter 
Reed. You're not too worried about educating the Nation's kids and the 
kids in rural areas. But I am, and I represent that district. This is 
long overdue. This is an emergency.

And then for them to denigrate the emergency assistance to the 
fishermen? We had to drag the administration kicking and screaming last 
year to finally declare an emergency when they closed down the season 
and people couldn't work and they are losing their boats. Now they say 
it is unwarranted funding for the fishermen.

How distant from the reality of the American people can you get? 
Twice in one day we have tried to bring this President back to Earth, 
on a new course in Iraq and on the needs of the American people here at 
home.