---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `cf7f2a06a90c3547264920fa66e3e2e0`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 28 May 2010`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Chair, as we prepare to observe Memorial Day, the 
House passed a measure that makes a significant investment in our armed 
forces. In addition to much-needed additions in equipment, mental 
health care, and health services, the FY 2011 Defense Authorization Act 
includes a significant step forward for human rights. I am proud to say 
that this Congress has taken action to end the outrageous ''Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell'' policy. By the end of 2010, it is my hope that all members 
of our armed forces will be able to serve our nation proudly and 
openly.

I am also pleased that the Committee has taken my request for 
additional environmental cleanup funding seriously. This bill provides 
$20 million over the President's request, which is a small, but 
important first step. Our nation has tens of millions of acres of land 
that are contaminated with toxins and munitions left over from military 
training. Much of this now serves as parks, housing, or business 
development where Americans work and play every day. Yet the last of 
these sites won't be cleaned for another 250 years. It was my hope to 
include a provision, which I submitted to the Rules Committee as an 
amendment with Representatives Brown-Waite and Farr, to require that 
the military notify families and businesses living and operating on 
these sites. I am disappointed that this simple and commonsense 
amendment was not made in order, and it is my intention to offer it as 
a stand-alone bill. Americans have a right to know.

The continuous commitment to the escalation in Afghanistan concerns 
me greatly. The money and effort is misplaced and ultimately 
ineffectual. I am also disappointed that the House voted to preserve 
funding for the extra engine program for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. 
I have opposed this program for years, as have President Obama, 
Secretary Gates, the Army, Navy, and Marines. This is a sad reminder of 
how parochial interests can overwhelm good policy, and I will work with 
my colleagues to remove this funding in conference with the Senate.

I also look forward to working with my colleagues to clarify the 
Department's role with respect to the siting of wind energy projects, 
and to clarify the bidding process with regards to the Army's M915 
truck.

No bill is ever perfect, and I will work to refine and strengthen 
this legislation through the conference process.
