# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `cf7f65d1cc6f53f64309abf271fe28dc`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 21 May 2009`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today with Senator Bond to 
introduce the Tariff Relief Assistance for Developing Economies Act of 
2009 to help some of the world's poorest countries sustain vital export 
industries and promote economic growth and political stability.

I worked with former senator Gordon Smith on this bill in the past 
and I am proud to move it forward in the 111th Congress.



This legislation will provide duty free and quota free benefits for 
garments and other products similar to those afforded to beneficiary 
countries under the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act, AGOA.

The countries covered by this legislation are the 14 Least Developed 
Countries, LDCs, as defined by the United Nations and the U.S. State 
Department, which are not covered by any current U.S. trade preference 
program: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cambodia, Kiribati, Laos, 
Maldives, Nepal, Samoa, Solomon Islands, East Timor, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, 
and Yemen.

The bill also includes Sri Lanka as an eligible country.

To be eligible for the benefits provided under our bill, a country 
must demonstrate that it is making continual progress toward 
establishing rule of law, political pluralism, the right to due 
process, and a market-based economy that protects private property 
rights. Our legislation would help promote democracy while sustaining 
vital export industries and creating employment opportunities.

The beneficiary countries of this legislation are among the poorest 
countries in the world.

Nepal has per capita income of $240. Unemployment in Bangladesh 
stands at 40 percent. Approximately 36 percent of Cambodia's population 
lives below the poverty line.

Each country faces critical challenges in the years ahead including 
poor health care, insufficient educational opportunities, high HIV/AIDS 
rates, and the effects of war and civil strife.

The U.S. must take a leadership role in providing much needed 
assistance to the people of these countries.

Yet humanitarian and development assistance should not be the sum 
total of our efforts to put these countries on the road to economic 
prosperity and political stability.

Indeed, the key for sustained growth and rising standards of living 
will be the ability of each of these countries to create vital export 
industries to compete in a free and open global marketplace.

We should help these countries help themselves by opening the U.S. 
market to their exports.

Success in that endeavor will ultimately allow these countries to 
become less dependent on foreign aid and allow the U.S. to provide 
assistance to countries in greater need.

The garment industry is a key part of the manufacturing sector in 
some of these countries.

In Nepal, the garment industry is entirely export oriented and 
accounts for 40 percent of foreign exchange earnings. It employs over 
100,000 workers--half of them women--and sustains the livelihood of 
over 350,000 people.

The United States is the largest market for Nepalese garments and 
accounts for 80-90 percent of Nepal's total exports every year.

In Cambodia, approximately 250,000 Cambodians work in the garment 
industry supporting approximately one million dependents. The garment 
industry accounts for more than 90 percent of Cambodia's export 
earnings.

In Bangladesh, the garment industry accounts for 75 percent of export 
earnings. The industry employs 1.8 million people, 90 percent of whom 
are women, and sustains the livelihoods of 10 to 15 million people.

Despite the poverty seen in these countries and the importance of the 
garment industry and the U.S. market, they face some of the highest 
U.S. tariffs in the world, averaging over 15 percent. In contrast, 
countries like Japan and our European partners face tariffs that are 
nearly zero.

Surely we can do better. This legislation will help these countries 
compete in the U.S. market and let their citizens know that Americans 
are committed to helping them realize a better future for themselves 
and their families.

Doing so is consistent with U.S. goals to combat poverty, 
instability, and terrorism in a critical part of the world. We should 
not forget that of the approximately 265 million people that live in 
the TRADE Act countries, almost 200 million are Muslim.

The impact on U.S. jobs will be minimal. Currently, the beneficiary 
countries under this legislation account for only 4 percent of U.S. 
textile and apparel imports, compared to 24 percent for China, and 72 
percent for the rest of the world.

These countries will continue to be small players in the U.S. market, 
but the benefits of this legislation will have a major impact on their 
export economies.

At a time when we are trying to rebuild the image of the U.S. around 
the world, we need legislation such as this to show the best of America 
and American values. It will provide a vital component to our 
development strategy and add another tool to the war on terror. I urge 
my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.