# EARLY ACTIONS OF NEW DEMOCRAT MAJORITY
## `cf8ed40f58f7c305ca239a224186b8b4`
`Mr. McHENRY — 5 January 2007`

---


Mr. McHENRY. Mr. Speaker, this is a nice occasion at the end of the 
week to wrap up what we have been doing and talk about how we have been 
active this week, but before I start, I would like to yield to the 
distinguished former chairman of the Armed Services Committee, my 
colleague from California (Mr. Hunter), to discuss points that he 
illuminated in his first 5 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend Mr. McHenry, and again, I thought 
it was important, as we move into this new era and my great friend Ike 
Skelton takes over the Armed Services Committee to reflect on where we 
stand and what we did in the last Congress.

Again, just to reiterate, we culminated a 40 percent pay increase for 
the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the United States Marine Corps, and 
the National Guard in this last 8 years. Along with that, we increased 
family separation pay, which is the pay a family receives when the 
loved one is separated, maybe is in theatre, or maybe is deployed far 
around the world in this global war against terror. We increased that 
from $150 to $250 per month. We increased combat pay. We increased a 
number of our insurances. And also, Mr. Speaker, we increased TRICARE 
coverage for National Guard personnel and for their families.

Along with that, we did something that was really the special project 
of the outgoing readiness chairman, Mr. Hefley of Colorado, which was 
to bring in to full flower this privatization of housing on military 
bases across the country so that military wives and family members 
could move into really great housing.

I have to tell you, in visiting bases across America, it has been 
heartwarming to see these military families coming into wonderful new 
housing that often has an entertainment area in maybe a common area 
with a pool and tennis courts and reading rooms in the center of one of 
these housing projects where the families can go for entertainment and 
take their children for good quality time.

So the quality of life for America's military families has been 
greatly increased over the last 8 years.

Now, what have we done in terms of firepower? Mr. Speaker, I can tell 
you that beginning with this administration and meetings that we held 
with the Secretary of Defense and with the President, one concern that 
I had, and a number of members of our committee had, was the amount of 
what I would call precision firepower. That is the ability to deliver a 
smart bomb or a precise system. Instead of, for example, having to drop 
100 bombs on a bridge to knock a bridge out, to be able to send a smart 
bomb in, hit one strut on that bridge, and bring the bridge down.

We all know now that this is the age of precision firepower, and we 
wanted to greatly expand our precision firepower because that gives the 
United States the capability to project enormous power around the world 
when we have to. So, Mr. Speaker, I just wanted to report to the people 
of the House, to our great colleagues and to the American people that 
we have in the last 8 years more than doubled, more than doubled our 
precision firepower.

A lot of that is manifested in what we call LGBs, or laser-guided 
bombs. A lot is manifested in what we call JDAMs, or joint direct 
attack munitions. But for our adversaries, that means that America has 
the power now to send in more than twice the firepower in precise 
places, at precise targets with enormous effect. That is very important 
for America's troops and for America's strength.

Now, Mr. Speaker, also people have asked what have we done in terms 
of enlarging the size of the two ground elements of America's military, 
the primary ground elements, the United States Army and the United 
States Marine Corps? We have increased the size of the Marine Corps now 
from 175,000 personnel to 180,000 personnel. We have increased it right 
at, in fact, exactly 5,000 Marines. And the last time I checked, we 
were something like 100 Marines under that limit. But we have gone from 
175,000 Marines to 180,000 Marines. We are right at that exact number, 
a few people short, but we have those Marines actually on the ground, 
deployed, showing up for roll call each day in their particular 
position in the war against terror. So we have increased the size of 
the United States Marine Corps. Now, we may need further increases, but 
at least at this point we have a 5,000 troop increase.

With respect to the Army, we took the Army end strength from 482,000 
to 512,000. That is a 30,000 person increase in the United States Army. 
Now, a number of us on the Armed Services Committee have done an 
analysis parallel to the QDR, the Quadrennial Defense Review, and we 
feel we may have to increase the Marine Corps and the Army further, and 
you can see those recommendations manifested in that report. But we 
have actually increased the Army and we have increased the size of the 
U.S. Marine Corps.

Now, if you ask, and a number of people have asked since Ronald 
Reagan


made that speech in 1983 and said, in essence, we are entering the age 
of missiles, and the United States, to secure its people, has to have 
the ability to shoot down incoming missiles, a number of people have 
asked us and asked regularly where are we in terms of missile defense. 
And I am pleased to report, Mr. Speaker, that for the first time in the 
history of the United States, we actually have a very small, very 
limited, but nonetheless very real missile defense for the first time. 
It is manifested in the interceptor missiles that we have in place on 
the Pacific coast and Alaska that could handle, on a very limited 
basis, a rogue missile or several coming into the United States.

Now, some people may say, well, that is not much. And my answer is, 
that is more than we have ever had in the history of this country. We 
have deployed a missile defense and we will be building on that 
deployment.

So, Mr. Speaker, I just thought it was important to lay out some of 
the things that this Congress has done and that this Armed Services 
Committee has accomplished for the American people. A 40 percent pay 
increase for our troops, increasing the size of the U.S. Army and the 
U.S. Marine Corps, putting together the first missile defense in the 
history of the country, and more than doubling the precision firepower 
of our armed forces.

Lastly, Mr. Speaker, the President will be making a statement very 
soon about this adjusted policy on Iraq, and I just wanted to once 
again tell my colleagues the recommendation that I have made. I know a 
lot of us have made recommendations to the President and to the 
Secretary of Defense.

Right now, there are 18 provinces in Iraq. And in half of those 
provinces, nine of those provinces, there are virtually no attacks 
taking place. They average less than one attack a day. In those quiet 
peaceful provinces, there are 27 battalions of Iraqi soldiers located 
and stationed. Twenty-seven battalions is a lot of soldiers, Mr. 
Speaker. It is a lot of firepower. It is a lot of personnel.

My recommendation to the President and to the Secretary of Defense 
for the last several months, and I hope that this has been a part of 
their conversation, I have urged them, and a number of other of my 
colleagues have joined with me in urging them to take the 27 Iraqi 
battalions that we have trained and equipped and move them into the 
battle. Now, that means that the Ministry of Defense is going to have 
to give orders to those battalion commanders and those brigade 
commanders in the quiet peaceful sections of Iraq and tell them to 
saddle up their forces, get them on the trucks, and move them to 
Baghdad.

They need to do that. That should be nonnegotiable. It should be a 
requirement by the American war fighting commanders that cannot be 
delayed, cannot be finessed, and cannot be put aside. That is something 
that should be nonnegotiable, especially against the backdrop of the 
enormous American effort that has given birth to this new government in 
Iraq.

So I know the President is going to come out with his suggested 
policy soon, but I thought it was important to lay out this fact, that 
right now we have 27 Iraqi battalions in quiet areas which can be 
utilized in the fight, can be put into the fight. In my estimation, 
their value in an urban setting, especially one like Baghdad, where 
speaking the language is important, and where knowing the communities 
is important, their placement in those positions before we move any 
additional American troops into those urban situations is, I think, 
something that we should do, and that we should require of the Ministry 
of Defense of Iraq.



I want to thank Mr. McHenry for letting me come out and talk a little 
bit about these issues and take some of his valuable time. I certainly 
appreciate the gentleman's allowing me to come out and say a word or 
two.