---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `cf96313d8793219fee9638e9f9ea1c76`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Madam President, at the conclusion of my remarks, I 
would be happy to yield.

Congress authorized this war, and it is in our power to bring it to a 
close. More importantly, we have not just the power but the 
responsibility to end a war that is draining vital national security 
resources in pursuit of a goal that cannot be achieved militarily.

The political problems that are driving much of the insurgency and 
sectarian strife in Iraq are tragic and important. They require the 
attention of U.S. policymakers. They do not require--in fact, they 
cannot be solved by--a massive and indefinite U.S. military presence in 
Iraq.

Some of my colleagues raise the specter of dire consequences if we 
redeploy U.S. forces from Iraq. That is precisely why we need a 
strategic approach to redeployment, one that addresses ongoing 
instability and other threats, with our intelligence, diplomatic, 
economic and, in a limited manner, military capabilities. Not only is 
the continuation of this war not going to end sectarian and insurgent 
violence, it puts off the day when we develop a comprehensive strategy 
for Iraq that is sustainable, and that fits squarely within the larger 
struggle of fighting al-Qaida.


As long as the President's policies continue, our troops will 
continue to put their lives on the line, our constituents will continue 
putting billions of their dollars into this war, our military readiness 
will continue to erode, our Guard and Reserve members will continue to 
face heavy burdens, and our ability to respond to an array of national 
security challenges will continue to suffer a great deal. From Somalia 
to Afghanistan to the ongoing fight against al-Qaida, we face threats 
and challenges that require serious attention and resources. Right now, 
far too much of both are being spent on a single country. It is this 
singleminded and self-defeating policy that needs to end, and it is up 
to Congress to do so.

Time and again, the President has made it clear that nothing--not the 
wishes of the American people, not the advice of military and foreign 
policy experts, not the concerns of Members of both parties--will 
dissuade him from pursuing policies in Iraq that are not working. Faced 
with a clear mandate from the voters last November, the President just 
stalled for time, and then he announced not just a continuation but an 
escalation of his policy. So Congress cannot wait for the President to 
change course. We need to change the course ourselves.

This resolution recognizes, and acts on, that reality. It would 
effectively terminate the misguided resolution authorizing force in 
Iraq, while allowing a minimal number of troops to remain to perform 
very limited functions: protecting personnel and infrastructure, 
training and equipping Iraqi forces, and conducting certain targeted 
counterterrorism operations. The latter provision is a particular 
priority of mine, which is why my original legislation includes exactly 
the same language.

Clearly, the United States has an ongoing role to play in addressing 
the terrorist threat in Iraq. While Iraq was not a hotbed of terrorism 
before the President led us to war in that country, al-Qaida and its 
allies are trying to use the anger and frustrations unleashed by that 
war to their advantage. Like Afghanistan and Somalia, Iraq will need to 
be closely monitored to ensure that it does not become a failed state 
and a breeding ground for terrorism, and we must be prepared to pursue 
targeted missions to take out terrorists.

But maintaining 140,000 U.S. troops in Iraq is not the way to defeat 
al-Qaida. Military operations of any size will only succeed if they are 
combined with other measures--including diplomatic, economic, and 
intelligence measures--as part of a comprehensive strategy for 
defeating the terrorists who threaten our country. Al-Qaida is


not a one-country franchise; it is a global threat that requires a 
global response.

The Reid resolution would require the President to begin redeploying 
combat forces not essential to the three limited functions I just 
mentioned within 120 days, with a goal of finishing redeployment by the 
end of March 2008. While I support a faster redeployment with a firm 
deadline, these provisions are, in fact, binding and would make clear 
that the President's commitment to an open-ended, massive military 
mission in Iraq is over. That is what the American people want, and 
that is what this Congress should ensure.

Regardless of what happens this week, I believe the introduction of 
this resolution, with the cosponsorship of some 41 Senators, represents 
a significant step toward ending the war. The overwhelming majority of 
Democrats are saying that the war must come to a close and that they 
are prepared to take binding steps to do just that. The question each 
of us will face as this debate continues is how to best end our 
involvement in the war and redeploy our troops.

I look forward to the opportunity to offer an amendment to the 
upcoming supplemental that would actually use Congress's appropriations 
power to require the safe redeployment of our troops. While I do not 
agree with much of what has been said by those in this body who 
continue to defend a disastrous war, they are right about one point: If 
we are serious about opposing the war, we must be serious about ending 
funding for the war.

I am pleased the Senate has voted to allow debate on the Reid 
resolution to go forward. Unfortunately, however, some in this body 
continue to make arguments that undermine the ability of Congress to 
have a serious discussion about the Iraq war. They fail to recognize 
that this body has an obligation to address the most pressing issue 
facing the country today and respond to the overwhelming sentiment of 
our constituents. They purport to defend the President's prerogatives 
and the morale and well-being of our troops, but their rhetoric has the 
effect of trying to stifle open and honest debate.

While I cannot speak for the President, I am confident our troops, 
and our constituents, are ready for this debate. They know that in a 
democracy such as ours, discussion of major foreign policy issues can 
and should be conducted openly. So I am glad the Senate is beginning 
such a discussion today, and I will continue pushing this body to 
finally bring to a close our involvement in a war that has been a 
disaster on so many fronts.

Madam President, I am now happy to yield for a question to the 
Senator from Kansas.