---
---

# None
## `cf98004a9d57d229fc958a6edb9ef778`
`Mr. INHOFE — 14 September 2010`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, with all the talk about the small business 
bill and about the fact that we have an administration, with a majority 
in the House and the Senate, that has amassed unbelievable debts, 
raising it up to $13 trillion, and a deficit of $1.4 trillion in just 1 
year, the first year, people have forgotten other things that are going 
on.

I am very much concerned, being the second-ranking member of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee, about the national defense 
authorization bill, which we have passed every year in all the years I 
have been here. Generally speaking, it is one we can bring out on the 
floor, Members can offer amendments, and normally it takes 2, 3, 
sometimes 4 weeks, and longer, to pass it. But certainly, particularly 
during times of war, it is the most important piece of legislation we 
have.

I do not know what the majority is going to do. I just keep hearing 
rumors that they may very well not be wanting to bring it up or may 
bring it up by ''filling the tree,'' a little technical term, so 
Republicans would not be able to have amendments on the bill.

Well, this is very much a concern of mine. I think it puts them in a 
position where they can say: Oh, Republicans certainly are going to 
vote for the Defense authorization bill. In times of war, we have to do 
it. Well, we do. But there is a limit as to what they can put in there 
that is purely right down party lines.

There are a couple issues I wish to talk about in the Defense 
authorization bill that ended up being right down party lines. One is 
the issue of don't ask, don't tell. But before doing that, I would like 
to suggest that in May, in the final meeting we had of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee, we passed this out, and two amendments were added 
on the very last day by the Democrats, and they were passed virtually 
by all the Democrats right down party lines. One was opening our 
military hospitals for abortions, and that is something we need to talk 
about, but the other one was one we need to talk about more right now 
because this is the issue that so many people are not aware of. That is 
the repeal of don't ask, don't tell.

I remember back in 1994, I was in the House, running for the Senate, 
and one of the three issues that was very prominent in that race, which 
I won, concerned gays in the military. At that time, there were some 
efforts saying: Well, we want to acknowledge gays in the military so 
they can be open in their practices and all that. Well, a compromise 
was reached that I did not think at the time was all that good of an 
idea. But that was 1993, I guess, the latter part of 1993. It has 
worked for--what--17 years. It was called don't ask, don't tell; that 
is, if someone wants to serve who is a gay person, a man or a woman, in 
the military, that person can do it if that person is not out in the 
open. The whole idea of this thing was so they could not use the 
military as a forum to advance very liberal causes.

I am a veteran. I can remember when I was in the U.S. Army, and 
anyone who is a veteran knows the problems that would be associated 
with the practice of repealing don't ask, don't tell so people are 
openly gay in the military. You are going to have all kinds of 
billeting and other problems.

So I think when the discussion came up that we were considering doing 
this, the Secretary of Defense, Secretary Gates, did the right thing on 
February 2 of 2010. He said: Let's go ahead and have a study. Let's 
have an independent study as to how unit cohesion and readiness would 
be impacted if we repealed don't ask, don't tell.

In addition to the study, this is also going to conduct a survey of 
military members, people who are out there, in asking: Well, what is 
your feeling? You are out there in the fields, in many cases, out in 
the foxholes. What is your feeling about having open gays in the 
military?

So they were all getting ready to respond to this when a surprise 
took place, when the Democrats, almost straight down party lines, came 
out and said: Well, we are going to go ahead and repeal it anyway. They 
worded it in such a way that we will repeal it, but, of course, that 
will not take place until after the study is complete. The study was to 
be completed in December of this year. It was going to be a 12-month 
study. All the Members of the military were going to participate in 
that.

I can remember as recently as April 28 Secretary Gates and the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mullen, said--and this 
is a joint statement:







 [We] believe in the strongest possible terms that the 


 Department must, prior to any legislative action, be allowed 


 the opportunity to conduct a thorough, objective, and 


 systematic assessment of the impact of such a policy change.


Well, I was all for that. They were right, along with all the rest of 
the chiefs of the military and all the troops in the field. Of course, 
they obviously changed their minds. But if you want to know the effect, 
you need to go and talk to the troops in the field, and then you need 
to talk also to the chiefs of the military.

I am going to go ahead and quote, so I can get it in the Record now, 
exactly the feelings of those Chiefs of the four services and what they 
are recommending. I am so sick and tired of having the administration 
make those decisions without any consultation of the people in uniform. 
We are going through that right now in some of the things that are 
going on in Iraq and Afghanistan. The policy should be: The people in 
uniform know what to do. Quit trying to dictate their behavior.

Well, anyway, General Casey, the Chief of the U.S. Army, said:




 I remain convinced that it is critically important to get a 


 better understanding of where our Soldiers and Families are 


 on this issue, and what the impacts on readiness and unit 


 cohesion might be. . . .


He said:




 I also believe that repealing the law before the completion 


 of the review--


That is the one that is supposed to be completed in December--



 will be seen by the men and women of the Army as a reversal 


 of our commitment to hear their views before moving forward.


That is exactly what we are saying. We are saying: All right. We 
wanted your views, but we are not going to listen to your views now.

Admiral Roughead of the U.S. Navy said:




 We need this review to fully assess our force and carefully 


 examine potential impacts of a change in the law. My concern 


 is that legislative changes at this point, regardless of the 


 precise language used, may cause confusion on the status of 


 the law in the Fleet and disrupt the review process itself by 


 leading Sailors to question whether their input matters.


Obviously, their input does not matter now because they have already 
made that decision.

General Conway, of the U.S. Marine Corps--he is the Commandant--said:




 I encourage Congress to let the process the Secretary of 


 Defense created run its course. Collectively, we must make 


 logical and pragmatic decisions about the long-term policies 


 of our Armed Forces--which so effectively defend this great 


 nation.


General Schwartz, of the U.S. Air Force, said:




 I believe it is important, a matter of keeping faith with 


 those currently serving in the Armed Forces, that the 


 Secretary of Defense commissioned review be completed before 


 there is any legislation to repeal the don't ask, don't tell 


 law. Such action allows me to provide the best military 


 advice to the President, and sends an important signal to our 


 Airmen and their families that their opinion matters. To do 


 otherwise, in my view, would be presumptive and would reflect 


 an intent to act before all relevant factors are assessed. . 


 . .


Well, I agree with all that. These are the guys in the field. They 
are the ones who are making this decision. Yet, on May 27, both Gates 
and Mullen, who had already stated they should wait until after this 
study is completed--that would be in December--on May 27, they had what 
they called a compromise. Basically, the compromise is saying: Well, we 
are going to go ahead and repeal it. That was the motion that was in 
the last day before we passed the Defense authorization bill out of the 
House, and the same thing, the Defense authorization bill of the 
Senate.

Why did they change? Why did Gates and Mullen change? Gates and 
Mullen answered to the President. The President, I truly believe--and I 
hate to throw this into it--but, obviously, this is something the vast 
majority of people in America would like to see happen the way we had 
said it was going to happen, so we could evaluate the effect on 
readiness and the effect on our troops in the field, the effect on the 
war that is taking place right now. Yet they went ahead and reversed 
that, and, again, that was right down party lines.

There are so many other things having to do with this that are 
critical. Obviously, current chaplains are not able to be heard. But we 
have a letter from 41 of the retired chaplains stating that 
''normalizing homosexual behavior in the armed forces will pose a 
significant threat to chaplains' and Servicemembers' religious 
liberty.''

So we have this that is taking place right now.

I know a lot of people are concerned, as I am concerned, with a 
ruling that came from a district court out in California. This ruling 
came out and said: We think it is a violation of the first amendment 
rights of homosexuals not to be able to express their preferences in 
any way they want.

However, the military is different. It is my understanding--and I am 
not a lawyer--this ruling may not have any effect. In fact, there is an 
article. It was on FOX News this morning: ''Pentagon: No Plans To 
Change 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Policy After Court Ruling.'' Well, that 
was good news to me because I thought maybe it was all over once the 
courts ruled.

But the only thing they would go through now with the compromise, 
they call it, that they passed, is that you would have to have Admiral 
Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Secretary of Defense 
Gates, and President Obama making the statement as to what they prefer. 
That is why I say this is over and done with, unless we have an 
opportunity to bring out the Defense authorization bill and to offer 
amendments on the Defense authorization bill. I have to tell you, there 
are several Democrats now who have joined Republicans in wanting to 
stop the repeal of don't ask, don't tell or at least to wait until this 
study is completed.

But if you do not think the three I just mentioned have already made 
up their minds, I will go ahead and read their statements.

President Obama:




 This year, I will work with Congress and our military to 


 finally repeal the law that denies gay Americans the right to 


 serve the country they love because of who they are.


Secretary Gates:




 I fully support the president's decision. The question 


 before us is not whether the military prepares to make this 


 change, but how we best prepare for it.


Admiral Mullen:




 Mr. Chairman, speaking for myself . . . it is my personal 


 belief that allowing gays and lesbians to serve openly would 


 be the right thing to do.


So you have to ask the question, Why? What was wrong with waiting 
until December? I will tell you what is wrong: because there is an 
election that is taking place November 2 and the gay lobby is a huge 
lobby. I think we all know that. All these people who think they have 
not been liberal enough, I cannot imagine there is anyone in America 
today who thinks this administration has not been liberal enough. But 
these individuals are the ones who want to have this done before the 
November 2 elections. I can think of no reason at all that they would 
take this stand other than the political reason.

So here is what I believe. I think we are going to have to make a 
decision. I would certainly hope the majority leader and the Democrats 
who have this policy will allow this to come up and come up as soon as 
possible and allow a full and open debate, as we have always had. There 
is not a time in the history of this country that we have brought up a 
Defense authorization bill, particularly in time of war, without 
allowing everybody to get in there and to offer amendments. Perhaps it 
could be argued this is the most important bill of the year.

So I am hoping people start talking about it. That is why I am 
bringing it up today. The fear I have is this is going to be shoved 
down our throats by the majority, and we cannot let this happen.

Right now, we have a lot of men and women over in the various areas 
of combat. I have had the honor of being over there many times. I have 
worked with these individuals. We have more than our share in my State 
of Oklahoma. Our 45th is going to be going back over there. I would 
like to make sure these guys and gals know we are listening to them.


A lot of people criticize me and others for spending so much time 
over there, but there are so many things we find out when we are over 
there--things we can't get in hearings back here. I am talking about 
finding out, as we did over there, about the need for


the MRAP and some of the other capabilities we need to have so we can 
come back and make sure our kids who are over there fighting have 
everything they want. The very least we can do is keep our word, when 
we promised them that we are not going to do anything until we hear 
back from our military, our soldiers in the field, as to what they feel 
about the repeal of don't ask, don't tell. It is a very significant 
issue and it is one we are going to have to talk about this week.

With that, I yield the floor.