---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `cfa71188f3dbd18d952cf338b138a561`
`Mr. BAYH — 3 November 2009`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart to honor the 
life of SGT Dale Russel Griffin from Terre Haute, IN. Dale was 29 years 
old when he lost his life on October 27, from injuries sustained during 
a roadside bomb attack in Arghandab Valley, Afghanistan. He was a 
member of the 1st Battalion, 17th Infantry Regiment, 2nd Infantry 
Division, Fort Lewis WA. Dale was serving as part of operation Enduring 
Freedom.

Today, I join Dale's family and friends in mourning his death. Dale 
will forever be remembered as a loving son, and friend to many. Dale is 
survived by his parents, Dona and Gene, and a host of other friends and 
relatives.

Prior to entering the service, Dale graduated from Terre Haute South 
Vigo High School in 1999 where he was an accomplished wrestler gaining 
All-State recognition. He would later lead the Virginia Military 
Institute to a fourth place finish in the All-Academy Wrestling 
Championships in 2000, in which he was named the Tournament's 
Outstanding Wrestler.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we can take 
pride in the example Dale set as both a soldier and son. Today and 
always, he will be remembered by family, friends and fellow Hoosiers as 
a true American hero, and we cherish the legacy of his service and his 
life.

As I search for words to do justice to this valiant fallen soldier, I 
recall President Abraham Lincoln's words as he addressed the families 
of soldiers who died at Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot 
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and 
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power 
to add or detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 
say here, but it can never forget what they did here.'' This statement 
is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, as we can take 
some measure of solace in knowing that Dale's heroism and memory will 
outlive the record of the words here spoken.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Dale R. Griffin in the 
official record of the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and 
for his profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. I pray 
that Dale's family can find comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah 
who said, ''He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will 
wipe away tears from off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Dale.
