# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `cfbcbb313867bd29d5d990d1571befae`
`Mr. GREGG — 29 April 2008`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I rise today to honor U.S. Army Sergeant 
David Stelmat of Littleton, NH. On March 22, 2008, Sergeant Stelmat was 
tragically taken from us, along with two fellow soldiers from the North 
Carolina Army National Guard's 1132 Military Police Company, when his 
humvee encountered an improvised explosive device in Bagdad, Iraq. At 
only 27 years old, SGT David Stelmat, or DJ as he was known to his 
friends and family, will always be remembered as an adventurous, fun-
loving young man who enjoyed the outdoors.

The attacks of September 11, 2001, were the worst our Nation has ever 
experienced. Terrorists hijacked commercial airplanes, turned them into 
weapons, and brutally steered them into the World Trade Center Towers 
in New York, the Pentagon only miles from here, and the last plane lost 
on a field in Pennsylvania as a result of the heroic stance of the 
passengers aboard. It has become part of New Hampshire lore that in the 
wake of this tragedy, when our Nation was looking to heal itself, DJ, a 
1998 graduate of Profile High School, along with a friend, climbed to 
the top of the Old Man of the Mountain and placed an American flag in 
the iconic profile. Pictures of DJ's action quickly spread and served 
as a patriotic symbol of our State and our country.

Upon returning home from military service to our Nation as part of 
the infantry in Afghanistan, DJ attended the New Hampshire Technical 
Institute in his ardent desire to become an emergency medical 
technician. I am sure that this patriotic need to help our Nation heal 
after September 11 came from the same source of motivation which led to 
his burning desire to achieve his goal of military service as a combat 
medic.

In January 2006, DJ joined the New Hampshire National Guard's 237th 
Military Police Company. In August of that year he completed training 
as a health care specialist. After receiving training, he deployed with 
the 1132nd Military Police Company. As a testament to his service, 
Sergeant Stelmat's awards include a Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Army 
Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Iraq Campaign 
Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Armed Forces Reserve 
Medal with ''M'' device, Army Service Ribbon, Overseas Service Ribbon, 
Combat Action Badge, Expert Rifle Weapons Qualification Badge, and an 
Overseas Service Bar.

My deepest sympathy, condolences and prayers go out to DJ's loved 
ones, especially his parents. The service and sacrifice of Sergeant 
Stelmat remind me of the words of another son of New Hampshire, Daniel 
Webster, who said, ''What a man does for others, not what they do for 
him, gives him immortality.'' As combat medic, there is no doubt but 
that DJ put his country and his fellow soldiers before himself. For 
this selflessness, we are eternally grateful. May God bless U.S. Army 
Sergeant DJ Stelmat.
