# SCHIP
## `cfd0cf96e473ddef07b80dce1689634c`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 12 February 2007`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President, they made my case better than I make it 
in this letter. Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Majority Leader Harry Reid say 
we must fix the SCHIP program and suggested that the President add that 
to the emergency supplemental on Iraq, which we are going to take up in 
April.

The problem with that is, my State of Georgia runs out of SCHIP money 
at the end of this month--maybe, at the latest, at the end of March. We 
are having to cut off new enrollees now and will soon send out the 
notices to 273,000 children. There will be no money for the remainder 
of the year after March to meet the obligations of SCHIP. That will 
take place in States around the country, North, South, East and West.

Think about it. If you have enough money here and everybody who had 
that money allocated has used all they need, and you don't have enough 
money over here, it is a simple accounting measurement to fix that in 
this interim time. Senator Grassley and Senator Baucus have already 
committed, and Senators Rockefeller and Reid--all of us on both sides 
have all said we have to fix the formula; we will get to it toward the 
end of the year. But we can fix it in the interim to see to it that no 
child with health care under SCHIP loses that before we make the 
permanent fix.

I commend Senator Chambliss, who is on the floor, on his leadership 
and this amendment. I ask the majority leader to give close thought to 
this issue that was referenced in his own letter of February 2. If 
there was one amendment that could go on the continuing resolution and 
would receive unanimous support in the Congress and in the Senate, it 
is the amendment authored by Senator Chambliss and cosponsored by 
myself. I ask the leadership to seriously consider allowing an opening 
on the amendment tree so that amendment can be passed and adopted, and 
children in Georgia and around the country will end up having the 
health care that they have been promised and that they deserve.

I yield the floor.