---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 13, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE  BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `cfd843611ea498ea32ac82d1824107d1`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 29 April 2009`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Speaker, this budget agreement marks an 
important milestone on our road to economic recovery. It makes 
priority, forward-looking investments in the vital areas of education, 
health care and clean energy while providing $1.7 trillion in tax 
relief for middle class families. It's also fiscally responsible, 
slashing our federal budget deficit by two thirds by 2013.

Madam Speaker, we didn't dig ourselves this ditch overnight and it's 
going to take some time to climb out of it. But with President Obama's 
leadership, we are now well on our way to creating the next era of 
genuine, broadly shared American prosperity.

It starts with honest accounting. Rather than hiding the true cost of 
our military engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan or our domestic 
response to natural disasters off budget, this conference report builds 
them right into the agreement. Additionally, this budget reaffirms the 
House's continued commitment to fiscal discipline by requiring 
statutory PAYGO as a condition for other policy adjustments in order to 
enforce a realistic baseline.

To build a rock solid foundation for economic growth, this agreement 
invests $100 billion in education--expanding early childhood 
development programs, improving K-12 and special education and 
increasing access to college. It creates a deficit-neutral reserve fund 
to finally provide high quality, affordable health care for every 
American. It increases federal funding for clean energy by 10%. And it 
provides middle class tax relief for millions of Americans.

Finally, this budget takes the $1 trillion deficit President Obama 
inherited and cuts it by two thirds over the next four years.

Madam Speaker, this is an honest, properly prioritized and fiscally 
responsible agreement. I urge my colleagues' support.