---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `cfdb8e6e560a632ce701135ee2618bf3`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, 3 months ago, President Bush set a new 
course in Iraq. He proposed a plan to secure Baghdad and its resident 
population, and he asked GEN David Petraeus, one of our best military 
minds of this generation, to carry out the mission. A Democratic-
controlled Congress approved the general without dissent and wished him 
well.

Then something strange happened. Soon after sending General Petraeus 
into the field of battle, the Democratic leadership began its own 
change in course. It decided this new mission was over before it even 
had time to work.

We were told in January by some of our Democratic colleagues to 
listen to the generals. Yet this week, with our top general in Iraq 
here to report on progress, most of those on the other side of the 
aisle covered their ears. The Speaker of the House skipped General 
Petraeus's briefing altogether, didn't even go listen to him.

This posture may be calculated to impress opponents of the war at 
home, but it frustrates our troops abroad, and today the Democratic 
leadership does further damage by passing a war spending bill that has 
no chance--no chance--of being signed into law, a bill that calls for 
withdrawing U.S. troops without regard to conditions on the ground, a 
bill that says we leave in October if the Iraqis have made progress and 
that we leave in July if they haven't.

Let me say that again. This bill says that we leave in October if the 
Iraqis have made progress and leave in July if they haven't. Either 
way, we are gone.

It should not be this way. We should uphold our end of the bargain 
and pass a bill that funds our troops and gives us a reasonable period 
of time to judge this new strategy.


The Iraq Study Group has outlined the stakes. They said premature 
withdrawal would ''almost certainly produce greater sectarian violence 
and further deterioration of conditions. The near-term results would be 
a significant power vacuum, greater human suffering, regional 
destabilization, and


a threat to the global economy. Al-Qaeda would depict our withdrawal as 
a historic victory. If we leave and Iraq descends into chaos, the long-
term consequences could eventually require the United States to 
return.''

That is the Iraq Study Group which has been so frequently cited by 
our good friends on the other side of the aisle.

Bin Laden knows the stakes, too. In a letter last year, bin Laden had 
this to say: America's defeat in Iraq would mean defeat in all its 
wars.

Yesterday, the commander of a senior Afghan Islamist group said bin 
Laden is personally involved in attacks on Americans in Iraq. General 
Petraeus went even further. He said al-Qaida has declared war on all of 
Iraq.

I call on my friends on the other side to have an open mind and 
listen to the general. We must give this plan for winning the military 
component of our strategy in Iraq a real chance to succeed. Without it, 
there is no political solution. Just 4 months old and operating at half 
its ultimate strength, the Baghdad security plan is already having an 
effect. Military leaders say the increased violence around Baghdad is a 
sign that the terrorists are shaken. The latest attacks were meant to 
be dramatic and to be visible. They were meant to force our withdrawal 
and ultimately our humiliation.

George Orwell said:




 The quickest way to end a war is to lose it.


This is a road we must not take. This legislation is tragic. If the 
Iraqis make progress, we leave; if they don't, we leave. This is not a 
choice, it is a mandate for a defeat that al-Qaida desperately wants.

It is not too late to change course. I ask my colleagues to be as 
patient as our soldiers and marines--and, indeed, the terrorists--and 
draft a bill that does not arbitrarily circle a date on the calendar 
and trigger withdrawal without regard to conditions on the ground. Then 
we can tell our troops that help is on the way, that they can finish 
this mission, and that they will return with honor. If not, if we give 
up, we will truly have reason to fear because if we cannot win this 
most important battle, how will we ever win the war?

I yield the floor.