---
---

# PERMISSION TO RESOLVE INTO SECRET SESSION
## `cffcfe4c2cc487f20892403a16fd4c89`
`Mr. SERRANO — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. SERRANO. The least important thing I can think of, the least 
important, is that the American public doesn't think too well of 
Congress right now, and going into a secret session is not going to 
help that. But that is the least important thing.

It almost sounds like we need a secret session prior to the secret 
session to tell the membership what we are allowed to do and say after 
the secret session. Some of us who oppose many of the things that have 
happened since September 11 have already drawn conclusions as to what 
we think is happening or not happening. I am not privy to all the 
intelligence and I don't think anyone is, and there are some folks in 
our government and some agencies historically that I don't trust. So I 
will never really know what the truth is. But I have a sense of what 
the truth may be and what the danger is of what we are doing in this 
country at this point.

So my concern is, at what point does what I feel and know become part 
of what is discussed at this session, and therefore if I keep 
discussing it in public I have now violated the secret session that I 
wasn't supposed to violate? I heard before that some things will be 
discussed at the secret session that are not classified. So if I 
discuss them later, am I in violation of House rules?

In other words, what I am suggesting, Mr. Leader, is that to tell the 
membership that we are having a secret session and have someone like me 
who has been here 18 years say what is that, without preparation for 
this extreme type of behavior, is to put the membership at risk. At 
risk.

We don't want to walk into this blindly, and I am walking into it 
blindly if I decide to attend. I don't know what I am allowed to say 
and do, and I say a lot of things about our behavior.

So I would hope if we are going to do this, we actually, and this is 
not a very popular notion, take some extra time in private to tell us. 
I know what happens when a general comes to me and tells me something 
that is going on in Iraq. I know I can't say that, because it was a 
classified meeting. I know that. But this is going to be debate. How is 
that debate going to be different from some things we say tomorrow in 
open debate? And if I forget, and I am not trying to be funny here, and 
mention some of that debate in this debate, what violation am I in?

My last point: With all due respect, if the gentleman has secret 
information


that speaks to the safety of my beloved country, our country, why 
didn't the gentleman take that information to the chairman of the 
Intelligence Committee, where it belongs? Why bring it to the whole 
House and put us all in that situation, when indeed we have an 
Intelligence Committee, we have a ranking member, we have a full 
committee?

I as a Member would be totally comfortable with the gentleman 
bringing that information. I assure you that if I ever learn anything 
that I believe can hurt our country, I will bring it to the 
Intelligence Committee right away. I will not call for a secret session 
that puts us at risk, that makes the American people think that we 
don't want to discuss in public some things, and that may in fact 
strike fear into Members to vote for a bill that we probably should not 
vote for.

Madam Speaker, I withdraw my reservation.