---
---

# COMPACTS OF FREE ASSOCIATION AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `d0030d07430d4ac32bafbc7d443a4a64`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2705, the Compacts of Free 
Association Amendments Act of 2007.

The United States shares a uniquely close history and friendship with 
the Pacific Island nations of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and 
Palau.

In the aftermath of World War II, the United States administered 
those islands as Trust Territories until they became independent, 
sovereign nations in the 1980s and the 1990s. Our relations with those 
countries are governed by compacts of free association which guarantees 
certain forms of U.S. assistance and cooperation in exchange for 
defense rights and obligations that are unique in the world.

Those Pacific nations remain stalwart friends of the United States 
and dependable partisans in the United Nations General Assembly. Some 
of their citizens continue to serve with great distinction and personal 
sacrifice in the United States Armed Forces, including Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

The 108th Congress extended and significantly restructured the 
compacts of free association with Micronesia and the Marshall Islands 
in the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003. This bill 
makes technical corrections, updates, and minor changes to that act, as 
well as to the Palau Compact. Most importantly, it improves the 
disaster assistance agreements required by section 105 of the act, 
which were subsequently negotiated between the parties and presented to 
Congress.

I want to thank the author, the gentlelady from the U.S. Virgin 
Islands (Mrs. Christensen) for providing us this opportunity to 
reaffirm our friendship with the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the 
Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau.

The measure before us today has also been modified to include the 
text of H.R. 3912, the Naval Vessel Transfer Act of 2007, which was 
requested by the Department of Defense and introduced by the gentleman 
from California, our great chairman, Tom Lantos.

According to the Secretary of the Navy, authority to transfer surplus 
vessels is an important aspect of our ship disposition strategy. It 
enables the Navy to manage its inventory while strengthening the ties 
with our allies by transferring the ships that enhance their defense 
capabilities.

This bill authorizes the transfer of eight decommissioned naval 
vessels to certain friends and allies of the United States, 
specifically Lithuania and Turkey and Taiwan. Five ships will be 
transferred on a grant basis, as excess defense articles, and three 
will be transferred through foreign military sales under section 21 of 
the Arms Export Control Act.

Importantly, the legislation also requires that any expense incurred 
by the United States in connection with a transfer authorized by this 
bill shall be charged to the recipient. Likewise, it states that, to 
the maximum extent feasible, repair and refurbishment of these vessels 
shall take place in U.S. shipyards.

I urge support of this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

