# COMMEMORATING THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE FAIR HOUSING ACT
## `d0081f27ddbba8546d53c61cf3124ff4`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 
1095, ''Commemorating the 40th Anniversary of the Fair Housing Act'', 
introduced by a fellow Texan, Representative Al Green.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is the nation's 
housing agency committed to increasing homeownership, particularly 
among minorities; creating affordable housing opportunities for low-
income Americans; and supporting the homeless, elderly, people with 
disabilities and people living with AIDS. The Department also promotes 
economic and community development and enforces the nation's fair 
housing laws.

However, according to the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
(HUD), more than 10,000 people filed housing discrimination complaints 
last year, mostly from persons with disabilities. HUD also found that 
race-based housing discrimination was the second most frequent reason 
individuals filed complaints.

Of the more than 10,000 complaints filed last year, 43 percent 
alleged discrimination against persons with disabilities while 37 
percent alleged racial discrimination. Most complainants claimed to be 
victims of discrimination in the terms and conditions of the sale or 
rental of housing, or outright refusal to rent.

The Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity at HUD 
stated that ''Forty years after the passage of the Fair Housing Act, an 
alarming number of families are still being denied housing and still 
need the protections this landmark law offers.'' Assistant Secretary 
Kim Kendrick's remarks only underscore the importance of HUD's 
continued enforcement, instruction, and outreach activities to ensure 
that all Americans have equal access to housing opportunities.

Currently HUD has placed fair housing advertisements on more than 900 
movie screens throughout the country. These advertisements inform 
viewers that it is unlawful to discriminate in the sale, rental, or 
financing of housing and provided HUD's toll-free telephone number, for 
those that may have experienced or witnessed unlawful discrimination.

Another part of HUD's outreach in this area is its training program, 
Fair Housing Accessibility FIRST, which has trained 1,351 individuals 
in 22 training sessions in 17 states on the Fair Housing Act's design 
and construction requirements for multifamily housing.


















 Texas


On March 27th, HUD announced that the Texas State Program and the 
cities of Houston and New Braunfels will receive a total of 
$234,868,077 to support community development and produce more 
affordable housing. HUD's annual funding will also provide down payment 
assistance to first-time homebuyers; assist individuals and families 
who might otherwise be living on the streets; and offer real housing 
solutions for individuals with HIV/AIDS.

This funding will help Texas to reconstruct its neighborhoods and 
affordable housing stock by helping communities to improve their 
infrastructure or assisting families to purchase their first home, HUD 
is helping improve neighborhoods from the ground up.

The funding announced includes: Community Development Block Grant 
(CDBG) funds; HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME) funding; American 
Dream Down payment assistance; Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG); 
and, Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA).


Since 1974, HUD's Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program 
has provided more than $120 billion to state and local governments to 
target their own community development priorities. The rehabilitation 
of affordable housing and the improvement of public facilities have 
traditionally been the largest uses of CDBG although the program is 
also an important catalyst for job growth and business opportunities. 
Annual CDBG funds are distributed to communities according to a 
statutory formula based on a community's population, poverty, and age 
of its housing stock, and extent of overcrowded housing.



HOME (HOME Investment Partnerships Program) is the largest federal 
block grant to state and local governments designed exclusively to 
produce affordable housing for low-income families. Since 1992, more 
than 600 communities have completed more than 834,000 affordable 
housing units, including 352,000 for new homebuyers. In addition, 
186,000 tenants have received direct rental assistance.

 The American Dream Down payment Initiative (ADDI) helps first-time 
homebuyers with the biggest hurdles to homeownership--down payment and 
closing costs. The program was created to assist low-income first-time 
homebuyers in purchasing single-family homes by providing funds for 
down payment, closing costs, and rehabilitation carried out in 
conjunction with the assisted home purchase. Since the program's 
inception, ADDI has assisted nearly 29,000 families to purchase their 
first home.

Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) helps local communities to meet the 
basic shelter needs of homeless individuals and families. These grants 
also provide transitional housing and a variety of support services 
designed to move the homeless away from a life on the street toward 
permanent housing. This block grant program, along with more than $14 
million HUD awarded New Orleans and Jefferson Parish by competition, 
helps thousands of local homeless assistance programs to help those who 
would otherwise be living on the streets.

HUD's Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) grants are 
distributed to states and cities based on the number of AIDS cases 
reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The grants 
provide resources for operating community residences and providing 
rental assistance and support services to individuals with HIV/AIDS and 
their families. In addition, the HOPWA program also helps many 
communities develop strategic AIDS housing plans and fill in gaps in 
local systems of care. A stable home environment is a critical 
component for low-income persons managing complex drug therapies and 
potential side effects from their treatments.











Subprime Mortgage Crisis and Housing


Over the past year, we have seen a crisis in subprime mortgage 
lending, which has threatened the stability of the housing market and 
the livelihoods of large numbers of Americans. This Democratic Congress 
is committed to strengthening the housing market and stabilizing the 
economy, and we have passed important legislation to address this 
crisis.


Due to the lack of regulation by the federal government, many loans 
were accompanied by fraud, predatory lending, inadequate information 
and other failures of responsible marketing. With exceptionally high 
(and rising) foreclosure rates across the country, homeowners all over 
America are losing their homes.

The sub-prime mortgage crisis has impacted families and communities 
across the country. Home foreclosure filings rose to 1.2 million in 
2006--a 42 percent jump--due to rising mortgage bills and a slowing 
housing market. Nationally, as many as 2.4 million sub-prime borrowers 
have either lost their homes or could lose them in the next few years.

It is critical that we address this crisis. The Bush administration 
and the mortgage industry must reach agreement that matches the scale 
of the problem. If you produce an inadequate agreement, or fail 
outright, the cost to our economy will be incalculable. The freeze on 
foreclosures would give the housing market time to stabilize and 
homeowner's time to build equity.

The 110th Congress has demonstrated its commitment to moving America 
in a New Direction by raising the minimum wage, implementing the 
recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, opposing the war in Iraq, 
improving children's health care coverage, increasing aid to the Gulf 
Coast, passing energy reform, instituting fiscal discipline through pay 
go budgeting, raising ethical standards for lobbying, and increasing 
oversight over the Bush Administration on a range of issues including 
Iraq, FISA, the CIA interrogation tapes, and the Jena 6 cases.

We have also made efforts to strengthen the housing market, including 
continued efforts to end discriminatory practices and stabilize the 
economy. Expanding affordable housing and mortgage opportunities for 
all American families is of paramount importance.

