---
---

# THE LOSS OF NATHAN J. SCHULDHEISS
## `d015a13768e626c6bf07b57413fc5a22`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, it is with profound sorrow that I rise 
to recognize the loss of a brave civilian in Iraq, Nathan J. 
Schuldheiss, a resident of Newport who served his country with dignity 
and honor. I join his family and the people of Rhode Island in mourning 
this great loss.

With a father in the Air Force, Special Agent Schuldheiss grew up 
traveling across the country. He graduated from La Cueva High School in 
Albuquerque, NM, received a political science degree from Gonzaga 
University, and received a law degree from the University of Rhode 
Island. Schuldheiss, 27, had dreams of one day working for the CIA or 
FBI and continuing his extensive traveling.

Schuldheiss volunteered his services to become a civilian 
counterintelligence specialist with the Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations, assigned to Detachment 204 at Offutt Air Force Base in 
Nebraska. He had spent 5 months in Iraq with his team seeking out 
insurgents that might pose a threat to servicemembers in the region. On 
November 1, Schuldheiss was on his way to interview a group of 
informants when an improvised explosive device was detonated. 
Schuldheiss and two other members of his team died of wounds suffered 
from the blast.

Those that knew Special Agent Schuldheiss remember his sense of 
humor, his leadership, his loyalty, and his sense of adventure. Most 
importantly, he had a positive impact on those around him. His loss 
certainly causes us all to reflect on the bravery demonstrated by our 
men and women who carry out their obligations in the face of danger. 
When Special Agent Schuldheiss's Nation called him to duty to preserve 
freedom, liberty and security, he answered without hesitation. We will 
remember him as a patriot who made the ultimate sacrifice for his 
country.

May we keep Special Agent Schuldheiss's loved ones in our thoughts 
and prayers as they endure this difficult period, especially his 
father, Jeff; his mother, Sarah Conlon; and his sister, Erin. May his 
memory live on forever.

We will also continue to hope for the safe and speedy return of all 
of our troops serving throughout the world.
