---
---

# HONORING SILVER STAR RECIPIENT CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER TWO MARK ROLAND
## `d01a159c9351abb47d1f2ac44020daba`
`Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, the Army's third highest 
award for combat valor is the Silver Star. Today, it is my honor to 
praise a Silver Star recipient from my district in State College, 
Pennsylvania, Chief Warrant Officer Two Mark Roland.

In August at Fort Bragg, he received the award for gallantry in 
action against an enemy of the United States from Lieutenant General 
John F. Mulholland, commander of the U.S. Army Special Operations 
Command at Bragg. The award comes from the President of the United 
States.

While serving as the Intelligence Sergeant for a Special Forces 
Operational Detachment at Firebase Ripley in Afghanistan, Roland 
cleared and destroyed enemy fighters at close range, rescuing eight 
Afghan soldiers and leading the actions of the detachment's split team 
to a battlefield victory.

The citation reads that Roland distinguished himself by inspiring 
those around him to extraordinary collective valor. His personal 
courage and commitment to mission accomplishment in a combat zone, 
under extreme circumstances, greatly contributed to mission success.

Roland and all of the other servicemembers serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan deserve our praise and our gratitude for daily risking 
their lives for freedom. A Silver Star is our Nation's token of our 
greater thanks.
