---
---

# CORPORAL STEPHEN R. BIXLER POST OFFICE
## `d024eb028306bf22d8e514d01a306c03`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, from June 29 to August 1, 2007 I asked 
members of the Suffield, CT, community to share their opinion on 
changing the name of the local post office to honor Cpl Stephen R. 
Bixler. During that period, my office received over 170 letters, calls 
and e-mails in overwhelming support of the idea. The comments I 
received described a thoughtful and compassionate man who wanted 
nothing more than to serve his Nation and make a difference for his 
community, and I wanted to take a moment and share some excerpts with 
my colleagues.




 ''Being the very proud and saddened grandmother of Cpl 


 Stephen R. Bixler, renaming the Suffield Post Office in his 


 honor would be a special tribute, keeping his memory alive 


 for all who knew, loved, and respected him. He gave his life 


 to secure our freedom.''--Cpl Bixler's grandmother.



 ''Stephen Bixler was a close friend of mine, in which I 


 served with during Operation Iraqi Freedom with 3rd Battalion 


 8th Marines. During this period, Stephen showed what it meant 


 to be a Marine through his hard work and dedication to the 


 Marine Corps and in making the quality of living for the 


 Iraqi people better. From when he was a Boy Scout, Stephen 


 went out of his way to provide service to others. Being part 


 of the Boy Scouts, Stephen was able to excel in all that he 


 did leading him to earn Eagle Scout. Stephen decided to serve 


 his country and protect others by joining the United States 


 Marine Corps. In the Marine Corps, Stephen utilized his 


 outstanding qualities of selflessness, determination, and 


 dedication to the job at hand. Stephen strived to be the best 


 at everything that he did. When 3rd Battalion 8th Marines 


 returned state-side, Stephen volunteered to return with 2nd 


 Reconnaissance Battalion for a second tour of duty in Iraq. 


 He successfully completed his first of many schools when 2nd 


 Recon Battalion asked for volunteers to leave to go back to 


 Iraq. Stephen jumped at the opportunity and did it 


 courageously. Before Stephen left, he told me that he did not 


 think that he would make it back this time. Stephen went to 


 many schools in Suffield, CT, when he was home and loved to 


 talk to the students about his experiences. Stephen went on 


 the deployment and lost his life in Fallujah, Iraq doing what 


 he loved.



 During the time I knew Stephen, I saw that he was a 


 courageous and selfless individual by his actions. He changed 


 the life of everyone whom he came in contact with. His 


 service in the Marine Corps and in Boy Scouts made a lasting 


 impression on Suffield, Connecticut residents, and on to all 


 those who knew him. Stephen's loss has deeply impacted his 


 family and those who had the pleasure of voting for him.''--A 


 fellow marine who served with Cpl Bixler.



 Stephen gave his life selflessly while serving his second 


 tour of duty in Fallujah, Iraq on May 4, 2006. Stephen served 


 our country proudly knowing that the risk to himself was of 


 the highest level and yet he went straight for the front 


 lines. It is important to note that Stephen was given the 


 Medal of Valor for his final act which saved the lives of 


 his fellow marines traveling through a desperate area of 


 the Al Anbar providence. It was Stephen who noticed the 


 danger along the route and who stopped his caravan to 


 investigate and mitigate the danger.



 Stephen was a valuable member of our community as a young 


 person who was always willing to give of himself as a Boy 


 Scout (Eagle Scout rank), a member of the St. Joseph's 


 Church, and as a friend who was filling to volunteer to help 


 whenever the opportunity arose.



 Stephen's willingness to help his community was not limited 


 to Suffield, CT. His devotion to the Marines was Stephen's 


 way to serve our country on behalf of us all.



 Just before he returned to Iraq for his second tour of 


 duty, I asked Stephen why he felt he needed to return. His 


 response was simple. He said that the Iraqi people needed his 


 help. He told me that after a few days of the Marine presence 


 in the small towns of the Anbar Province that children 


 returned to play and that people were back at work in the 


 shadow of security provided by Steve and his fellow marines. 


 Steve was humble in his view of his profound work.''--Friend 


 of Cpl Bixler.



 Stephen Bixler was a close friend to both my husband and I, 


 whom my husband served with during Operation Iraqi III 04-06. 


 I had the privilege of knowing Stephen outside the United 


 States Marine Corps. Stephen was a hardworking, dedicated and 


 thoughtful individual. He always thought of others before 


 throwing himself into the mix. His family and friends always 


 came first. He exemplified what it meant to be a great 


 friend, a great Marine, and a great leader. I only know the 


 stories from Iraq either from my husband or his brother. They 


 talked nothing of greatness and leadership. Stephen knew what 


 he was doing, loved what he was doing and was passionate 


 about being a Marine. Stephen became like a brother to me. 


 Staying at our house and helping my husband out when 


 something needed to be fixed. He was never afraid to get his 


 hands dirty. He always came with a smile and left with one. 


 His attitude was always positive even on those tough days at 


 work.



 Knowing Stephen made me a better person today. There is not 


 a day that goes by that I do not walk past the pictures we 


 have hanging in his memory or a night that I fall asleep that 


 I am not thinking of him. He was a loved individual with so 


 much to offer. His loss will always leave a lasting 


 impression not only in Suffield but everyone that he reached 


 out to.''--Friend of Cpl Bixler.



 Stephen Bixler was a close friend of both my brother and I, 


 whom my brother served with during Operation Iraqi Freedom 


 III 04-06. I also had the privilege of serving with Stephen 


 Bixler in Camp Fallujah during this deployment. During this 


 period, Stephen exemplified what it meant to be a Marine and 


 a citizen soldier through his hard work and dedication to 


 helping to improve the standard of living for numerous Iraqi 


 families.'' ''During the short time that I knew Stephen,




 I learned that he was a caring and selfless individual by his 


 actions. His life impacted those he came in contact with, 


 extending beyond his friends and family. His service to 


 others made a lasting impression not only on Suffield, 


 Connecticut residents, but it extended to the citizens of 


 Iraq and fellow service members within the armed forces. 


 Stephen's loss has deeply impacted those that knew him and 


 his family.''--Friend of Cpl. Bixler.



 ''We knew him as a wonderful friend, student, track 


 teammate, and overall outstanding citizen. Please help 


 facilitate this honor to his memory.''--Friends of the Bixler 


 Family.



 ''A unique way of remembering our own and the tremendous 


 price families pay for something others may take so 


 lightly.''



 ''Steve was an exceptional young man that my wife and I 


 knew well. He attended our church and was an altar boy. His 


 dream was always to be a Marine and he gave his life in the 


 service of his country doing what he wanted to do. We have 


 shared many moments with his mom and dad, Linda and Richard, 


 grieving over the loss of someone so young.''--Friend of Cpl. 


 Bixler.



 ''In my opinion, there would be no better way to honor both 


 Stephen and his family than by renaming the Post Office. 


 Stephen is a hero, and I believe this is the very least he 


 deserves for the sacrifice that he has made for his country. 


 It is now our turn to repay our respect and honor by renaming 


 the Suffield Post Office in Cpl. Bixler's name.''--Friend of 


 Cpl. Bixler.



 ''My senior year I attained a car for the first time and I 


 would drive Steve to practice and home at the end of the day. 


 We got along great, we could always make each other laugh at 


 the littlest things and others on the tram would laugh with 


 us. We used to hang out so much the athletic director didn't 


 realize I was two years older than Steve. I had a great time 


 with him and I will truly miss him. Steve was a great 


 student and enjoyed by everyone, he was a talented young 


 man.''--Friend of Cpl. Bixler.



 ''Stephen Bixler was one of my older brother's closest 


 friends. They ran cross-country and track together in high 


 school and I remember always going to the meets and watching 


 them compete. Steve was quite possibly one of the nicest guys 


 on the team, if not the entire high school. Stephen entering 


 the Marines and defending his country was something he felt 


 passionately about. I support your idea to rename the Post 


 Office in memory and honor of Stephen Bixler. What he did for 


 our country may not be known to many people throughout the 


 country, but it is widely known throughout our town and I 


 believe that this renaming would be an honor in his family's 


 eyes.''--Friend of Cpl. Bixler.



 ''Stephen graduated from Suffield High School in 2003, 2 


 years after our son and one year before our daughter. He and 


 our son Jon were good friends, having competed together in 


 Cross Country and Track & Field at Suffield High. During the 


 years that Jon had his license, and Steve was still too 


 young, Steve was the one exclusive passenger who was picked 


 up each morning on the way to school and returned home each 


 evening after a meet or practice. The two of them, and the 


 old truck they rode in back and forth to school, were men on 


 a mission who could only be deterred by the chance to do 


 'donuts' in an empty high school parking lot with a fresh 


 covering of snow!



 ''During the summer, they were part of a small group on the 


 Cross Country team who attended running camp in Vermont. They 


 always enjoyed entertaining us with the stories they brought 


 home about the camp antics and the occasional practical 


 jokes.'' ''Steve was a model student, with a warm personality 


 and a great sense of humor. He was also quiet and serious 


 with a great respect for his family and country. All during 


 high school, Steve's friends knew his first dream was to be a 


 U.S. Marine. When many of his friends left for the 


 'footloose' life of being new college students, Steve left 


 for the most difficult job--Marine training. As a marine, 


 Steve's assignments throughout the world had one cause and 


 that was to assist people in need. Steve was a young man that 


 any parent would be honored to have as a son.''--Parents of 


 one of Bixler's close friends.



 ''The Iraq war is not a subject that comes and goes--it is 


 always on the air. Its everlasting presence reminds me of 


 Stephen Bixler--in my studies, watching the news, even 


 conducting research at work.



 ''Naming the post office after Steve would not just be an 


 honor to Steve but also a gift to the people of Suffield. 


 Though we can never bring Steve back, and no building can 


 compensate for his death, feeling like we have paid tribute 


 to Steve is a necessary part of the community's healing.''



 ''I graduated High School with Stephen Bixler and 


 considered him a friend. I remember going to Stephen's house 


 to play when I was very young and I remember riding the bus 


 with him for as long as I can remember. For all of my years 


 as a student in Suffield, I can remember Stephen's house was 


 always extensively decorated by his mother. When these 


 decorations went from hoping for his return, to mourning his 


 loss, the effect was well felt throughout the community in 


 the deepest, most heartfelt way. Stephen was well liked and 


 greatly respected, and will forever be appreciated. As long 


 as Stephen's family supports the honor then I believe nothing 


 should stand in the way of this.''--Classmate and friend of 


 Cpl. Bixler.



 ''Stephen was my cousin. He lost his life fighting for us 


 in Iraq. Stephen loved what he did, being a Marine. He lost 


 his life doing what he loved. Growing up, Stephen emulated 


 the ''All American Kid''. An athlete, a scholar and Eagle 


 Scout. He defined what all Marines should strive to be. Aside 


 from all these things, Stephen was a son, a brother, and a 


 friend to many. He has made our family proud, and anyone who 


 knew him. Anyone who didn't know him missed out on a 


 wonderful person.''--Cousin of Cpl. Bixler.



 ''As a former classmate and teammate of Corporal Stephen R. 


 Bixler, I can attest to his deserving the honor of the 


 Suffield Post Office name. Steve was a valued member of every 


 team, class, and organization that he participated in. He was 


 always there to encourage creativity, determination, and 


 strength in the people around him. Steve lived his dream by 


 joining the Marines. He seemed to have found a home in his 


 service. As a Marine, he was able to stand out from the 


 crowd, just as he did as an athlete and intellectual. Steve 


 deserves this honor because he gave his life for his country. 


 Steve deserves this honor because he was one of America's 


 finest soldiers. However, Steve mostly deserves this honor 


 because of who he was as a person. He was kind and sought out 


 the best in those around him. He was an inspiration to 


 everyone and that is why the Suffield Post Office should be 


 named the Corporal Stephen R. Bixler Post Office.''--


 Classmate of Cpl. Bixler.
