# HONORING OKLAHOMA NATIONAL GUARD
## `d028e58c6e3fc4ab4f4465c546832fe8`
`Mr. BOREN — 14 September 2010`

---


Mr. BOREN. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I, along with the entire Oklahoma congressional 
delegation, rise today to recognize the members of the Oklahoma Army 
and Air National Guard for their service and sacrifice since September 
11, 2001. Military service is a time-honored tradition in Oklahoma, and 
the members of the Oklahoma National Guard are a living testament to 
this heritage.



Following the terrorist attacks on 9/11, thousands of members of the 
Oklahoma National Guard bravely answered the call of duty. They have 
confronted our enemies on the battlefield in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
defended the American homeland security against domestic threats and 
responded bravely to natural disasters and domestic emergencies.

Madam Speaker, Members of the Oklahoma National Guard are an 
invaluable asset to the United States military during wartime. Some of 
their more notable missions since 9/11 include providing air transport 
for soldiers and vital equipment to and from Iraq and Afghanistan, 
assisting with relief operations in response to Hurricanes Katrina and 
Rita and deploying specialized units of agricultural specialists to 
Afghanistan to assist local Afghans with agricultural development.

Madam Speaker, as we discuss this resolution, 3,500 members of the 
45th Infantry Brigade Combat Team are preparing to deploy to 
Afghanistan in the spring of 2011 as part of the President's surge 
strategy. This represents the single largest deployment of the Oklahoma 
National Guard since the Korean War.

Madam Speaker, these Oklahoma soldiers and airmen are extraordinary 
Americans. As members of the Oklahoma National Guard, they bravely risk 
their lives to protect the freedom and liberty that we so cherish. In 
their daily lives, these heroes are found throughout the Sooner State 
working among their fellow Oklahomans as police officers, firefighters, 
school teachers, and farmers.

That is why I, along with the entire Oklahoma delegation, am humbled 
to bring this resolution to the floor of the House today.

I reserve the balance of my time.