---
---

# RULES OF THE HOUSE
## `d03b1fae0e27d3ba9987add84c4915d9`
`Ms. CASTOR — 4 January 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Mr. Speaker, I thank my fellow Floridian very much. And I 
am proud to stand here with many other new Members who are very reform-
minded, and let me assure you we are ready to chart the new direction 
for America.

The election is over, and it is time for us to keep our commitment 
for honest leadership and open government rules changes. During this 
first 100 hours of the 110th Congress, all of us in this Congress must 
work together to pass key measures affecting the everyday lives of all 
Americans. We will begin by adopting the rules of the 109th Congress. 
This is the baseline proposal that is before us now. But then we shall 
continue on, on other proposals to clean up Washington, to sever 
unethical ties between lawmakers and lobbyists. We will start by 
banning travel and gifts from lobbyists, requiring full transparency to 
end the abuse of special interest earmarks, and ending the abusive 
processes that have undermined democracy in this House. These measures 
are the first steps to ensure that the Congress upholds the highest 
ethical standards.

Americans have paid the cost of corruption in Washington with 
skyrocketing prices at the pump, spiraling drug costs, and the waste 
and fraud of


no bid contracts in the Gulf and Iraq. No more. Reform is a top 
priority for this House because reform is a top priority for the 
American people.

As our first responsibility in fulfilling the mandate of this 
critical election, the Democrats are offering an aggressive reform 
package to restore the public trust. So, let's begin.