---
---

# ECONOMIC STIMULUS
## `d0486190a397faa8daccb7d70a776474`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 31 January 2008`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come to the floor this afternoon to 
talk about the economic stimulus package.

In the last several years, millions of Americans have seen their 
primary source of wealth--their homes--plummet in value. As many as 2 
million mortgage holders may lose their homes in this subprime crisis 
we are seeing. Investors around the world are now very concerned about 
the state of our economy. In my home State of Washington and across the 
country, people are very worried. We see Americans losing their jobs, 
we see them struggling to make ends meet, to buy groceries, to pay 
their power bills, even to afford health insurance. With our markets in 
decline, we have the opportunity now to give this economy a jump-start 
and help prevent a full-fledged recession.

Experts are telling us that taking action now to stimulate the 
economy by giving millions of taxpayers a rebate could help increase 
production and lift employment. Businesses--especially American 
manufacturers--need people to buy their products, and Americans need 
money to spend on those. I believe a quick stimulus bill that gives 
Americans some of their tax money back could make a real difference. 
But we also have to ensure that whatever action we take, it is 
temporary and targeted to where it can do the most good, and I am 
optimistic we can do that.

I wish to thank our House colleagues for coming to a quick agreement 
with the President on an economic stimulus package. Their proposal was 
a very good start, and I wish to thank Chairman Baucus and Ranking 
Member Grassley for getting to work immediately on a Senate plan. I 
hope we can all agree to get a bill to the President by February 15 and 
get this economy moving again.

In the last few days, I have talked with several economists who have 
appeared before our Budget Committee. They have shared their analysis 
of what Congress can do to prevent our economy from a full recession, 
and I think the legislation that was passed by the Senate Finance 
Committee largely meets their recommendations.

The Finance Committee bill would give middle and lower income 
Americans a $500 rebate check. It ensures that seniors who receive 
Social Security will get that rebate and, importantly, it extends the 
rebate to ensure that our disabled veterans who would not have 
qualified under the legislation at this point would get that rebate as 
well. I think this is particularly important. It restores the income 
cap so the rebates will go to the people who need it the most.



Any bill we pass has to ensure the rebates are targeted at seniors 
and working families. They are the backbone of our economy. They are 
the ones who need the money most, and they are the most likely to spend 
it. So you can be sure I will continue to fight any proposal that 
changes those provisions.

But I wish to add a few words to underscore the importance of 
including seniors in this bill. More than 20 million seniors depend on 
Social Security for their income, and they spend 92 percent of it--a 
greater proportionate share than all other adults--and seniors are 
among those who are hurt the worst during an economic downturn because 
of increasing health care costs. As our Finance Committee Chairman 
pointed out, seniors have worked hard all their lives, they pay taxes 
all their lives, and many of them still pay sales, property, and, of 
course, other taxes. So leaving seniors out of any stimulus bill would 
overlook their importance to our economy. It would make our stimulus 
bill much less effective and, most importantly, it would be enormously 
unfair.

I am encouraged by the progress we have made so far. I think a 
temporary, targeted stimulus is the shot in the arm our country needs. 
I have been pleased to see the President has been willing to work with 
us in Congress. I also believe there is a great deal more we can and 
should do that will help millions of struggling families and turn our 
economy around over the longer term. I know many of my colleagues 
agree. So I hope the President continues to see the value of working 
with us on longer term investments that will pay off for years to come.

One of those investments that I have high hopes will get us back to 
restoring our economy is a summer jobs program for teenagers. The 
unemployment rate for teenagers has jumped in the last year. For all 
teens, it is 17 percent, up from 13 percent in December of 2006. Among 
African Americans who are ages 16 to 19, it is almost 35 percent as of 
last month. Thirty-five percent unemployment for African-American youth 
between the ages of 16 and 19.

A summer jobs program would have a number of immediate and long-term 
benefits. We all know teenagers are likely to quickly spend any money 
they earn, so of course it would provide an immediate economic 
stimulus. But it also would work to begin to create a new generation of 
workers. Research shows teens who get work experience earn more over 
their lifetime.

Last November, I held a field hearing of my HELP Subcommittee on 
Employment and Workplace Safety at South Seattle Community College. We 
focused on the need to create a number of pathways, multiple pathways 
to career success for our young workers. We had representatives from 
the private sector, organized labor, and they all talked about the need 
for a new generation of skilled workers, while students said they were 
not getting enough information about career opportunities and options. 
I heard about the real need for green-collar workers and the dire need 
for skilled trade workers who drive our country's economic engines. 
Quite frankly, attracting these young people to our labor force is 
something I believe is vital to our economic future in this Nation.


But the summer jobs program I have been talking about has another 
benefit for our communities. Teens with jobs are less likely to commit 
crimes or join gangs. A columnist for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer 
wrote a story that caught my eye a few weeks back. It was about a 17-
year-old boy who had been killed in what police believe was a gang-
related shooting. The columnist, Robert Jamieson, interviewed some of 
the boy's friends for the piece he wrote. One friend said the boy had 
applied for nearly a dozen jobs, but couldn't get anyone to call him 
back, so he turned to other means. Tragically, we lost him in a gang-
related shooting.

Tragically, too many of our young people face the same choice between 
joining a gang or sticking with a discouraging job search. That story, 
I believe, illustrates why a jobs program for young people is one of 
the most important investments we can make in all our futures.

I wish to work with my colleagues on a bipartisan basis to provide 
the opportunities and the resources to ensure that this generation of 
workers and the next have the skills employers need so we can compete 
in the global economy.

I also believe we can create jobs and stimulate the economy by making 
desperately needed investments in our infrastructure, including our 
roads, bridges, levees, and mass transit systems across this country. 
Investing in our infrastructure would create jobs and increase spending 
on construction materials that would immediately infuse millions of 
dollars into our economy. Do you know that for every billion dollars of 
Federal spending on highways and transit, we create a whopping 47,500 
jobs. That is putting people to work. Those investments would pay off 
in the long term as well by helping ensure that our roads and bridges 
and mass transit systems are safe and they are strong.

Finally, we have to do more to address the housing crisis itself that 
has spread across this country. While the economy may be headed toward 
recession, the housing market is in a depression. According to the New 
York Times, the number of homes set for foreclosure is higher than at 
any time since the Great Depression. We are seeing communities in this 
country where people are literally abandoning their homes because they 
cannot afford their mortgages, and they cannot find a willing buyer. In 
this country, home ownership has always been a sign of prosperity, but 
now, for millions of Americans, it has become a trap. With each and 
every foreclosure, the foundation of every one of our communities 
weakens as well.

There were warning signs more than a year ago that this crisis could 
affect the entire Nation, but President Bush took a hands-off approach 
and ignored the problem. Regulators failed to take aggressive action. 
Now economists tell us the worst is yet to come.

Our economic strength depends on Americans having a safe and stable 
place to live and raise their families. Our economy will not be stable 
again until this housing crisis is corrected. We have to take action to 
help prevent more drastic problems, and we have to ensure that this 
situation can't happen again. Families facing foreclosure must be able 
to get mortgage counseling or help in refinancing their mortgages.

The Finance Committee bill includes as well critical tax relief which 
I support for businesses that were directly impacted by the home 
building industry, which has, as we all know, now come to a standstill. 
We must reform the lending system to prevent more families from losing 
their homes. I think we should have two main goals.

First of all, we need to modernize the FHA to enable the Federal 
Government to offer an alternative to nontraditional loans we have seen 
explode in the past several years. Secondly, we need to ensure that 
Government lenders can replace some of the worst subprime loans with 
sound, traditional mortgages. I believe those investments will have a 
positive ripple effect on the economy for years to come. I guarantee I 
will be back on this floor many times over the next several months 
pushing this Congress to take action.

The current economic trouble we face is a direct result of this 
administration's failure to plan for the future and lead us in the 
right direction. Similar to any family who prepares to balance its 
checkbook, we have to take stock of our finances and get our books back 
in order. American families understand how to live within their means. 
When they sit down and work out their yearly budget, they consider all 
their costs, decide how to invest in savings, and balance their 
checkbooks. The Bush administration inherited a budget surplus, but 
they squandered it with policies paid for by borrowing funds from 
future generations of Americans.

By waging a war in Iraq and failing to be honest about the true costs 
of that war, President Bush has racked up a mountain of debt with no 
strategy whatsoever to pay it back. Instead of looking out for the 
needs of everyday Americans, he allowed his friends on Wall Street to 
take massive paychecks, while allowing predatory lenders to work 
unregulated. At the same time, the Bush administration has failed to 
invest in our roads, bridges, in health care, in education, in energy 
independence, and in our safety here at home. These are things that 
help our citizens get to work, stay healthy and safe, and these are 
things that keep our economy stable over the long term. The longer we 
go without addressing our


crumbling highways, our skyrocketing health care costs or our 
dependence on foreign oil, the higher the costs will be when we have no 
choice and limited options to fix those problems. We saw that with 
Katrina. We saw it with the Minnesota bridge collapse.

Every family knows ignoring the need to spend wisely on things you 
depend on and failing to live within your means is a recipe for serious 
trouble down the road. So while the economic stimulus we are working on 
will do a lot of good in the short term, we have to insist that we deal 
with the real causes of our economic problems. It is time to take a 
lesson from American families: balance the budget, be honest about the 
true costs of this war, and think seriously about how we move forward. 
It is time to insist the Federal regulators who are supposed to watch 
out for economic trouble actually do their jobs.

It is time to stop ignoring our needs right here at home. President 
Bush has shown a willingness to work with Congress on this economic 
stimulus package. I hope he continues to see the value in working with 
us on the longer term policies that our economy and American families 
badly need.

I yield the floor.