---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `d04cd487e2115046703fda9434e0349a`
`Ms. McCOLLUM — 27 July 2010`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, across our country there are 
communities, businesses, and families that continue to struggle to 
escape an economic recession that has caused far reaching hardship and 
too much pain. Congress has a responsibility to ensure the economic 
security of the American people, as well as defend the national 
security of the Nation. This appropriations bill does not adequately 
meet the needs of the American people and I will not vote to pass it.

Today's vote on the emergency supplemental appropriation provides $37 
billion to continue the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, plus nearly $3 
billion for the crisis in Haiti. There is also $13 billion in funds for 
Vietnam War era veterans which I strongly support. To my great dismay 
the funds previously passed by the House to address urgent domestic 
needs such as securing our borders, preventing 100,000 teachers from 
layoffs, creating youth summer jobs, and financing Pell grants for 
higher education have been stripped from this bill by the U.S. Senate. 
Unlike the war funding which is financed by deficit spending, the House 
fully paid for the domestic priorities that were removed. It is simply 
unacceptable to abandon the serious needs of our


communities while calling the war in Afghanistan--the longest war in 
the history of the United States--an ''emergency.''

Since 2001, following the September 11th attack on the U.S., I have 
supported military action in Afghanistan to remove the Taliban from 
power and eliminate al-Qaeda. During this time U.S. and NATO troops 
have bravely pursued a military strategy that has provided the Afghan 
people with an opportunity to rebuild their country and determine their 
own future. It is now time for Afghans to be fully responsible for 
their own destiny without dependence on 100,000 U.S. troops.

After nine years of war and more than $300 billion of war funds added 
to our national debt, it is clear that an open ended U.S. military 
presence in Afghanistan is not acceptable to Afghans or Americans. 
President Obama is correct to have established a July 2011 date to 
begin withdrawal of U.S. forces. Still I question whether an additional 
eleven months of U.S. troops in combat will result in a security and 
political environment that will be significantly improved from what 
exists today. I believe now is the time for a movement away from an 
expanded military presence in Afghanistan towards a strategic drawdown 
of U.S. troops and a refocus on a counter-terrorism strategy to prevent 
al-Qaeda from again taking root.

On July 1, 2010 during debate on this supplemental bill, I supported 
amendments to move towards ending the U.S. military presence in 
Afghanistan by putting limits on the funds appropriated. Unfortunately 
those amendments failed. I voted for the ''Lee Amendment'' to limit the 
use of military funding for Afghanistan to activities related to the 
safe withdrawal of troops and the continued protection of civilian and 
military personnel in the country. I also voted for the ''McGovern, 
Obey, Jones Amendment'' which calls for a plan for the safe, orderly 
and expeditious redeployment of U.S. troops from Afghanistan. Today's 
vote allows no such amendments to be offered.

It was a surprise to listen today to one of my Republican colleagues, 
the Armed Services ranking member, who stated during debate on this 
bill that the U.S. will succeed in Afghanistan if Congress only gives 
the military the ''time, space and resources.'' This Republican call 
for apparently endless resources for Afghanistan is in sharp contrast 
to their policies here at home in which ''no'' is their position on 
providing emergency assistance for our own citizens.

Madam Speaker, I would like to commend the courage and determination 
of all U.S. troops who are serving in Afghanistan or have served there 
since 2002. The Afghan people suffered mercilessly under the Taliban 
regime and it was U.S. and NATO troops who freed them from a medieval 
existence. It is not an appropriate role for U.S. troops to rebuild a 
country that has experienced 30 years of war nor can they provide on-
going security for a government which has not earned the trust of its 
own people.

U.S. troops deserve a mission that is clear and achievable so they 
can return safely home with the knowledge that they have helped to keep 
America secure and allowed the Afghan people to make their own future. 
It is now time for the Afghan people to make that future.