---
---

# RECOGNIZING 235TH BIRTHDAY OF U.S. ARMY
## `d061e8c89fb97205f9845eaf5c26b877`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 16 June 2010`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. I want to thank Chairman Ortiz for the time 
today and, most importantly, not only for his service in the U.S. Army 
as a soldier but for his leadership as a key subcommittee chairman on 
the House Armed Services Committee. The gentleman from Texas works 
every day to support our soldiers, not just with his words but with his 
deeds, and I'm deeply grateful for that.

Madam Speaker, this resolution honors the 235th anniversary of the 
United States Army, and I rise today on behalf of a grateful Nation to 
say thank you to every Army soldier, past and present, for their 
service to our Nation. We express our gratitude with the humility of 
knowing that we could never fully repay the debt of gratitude we owe 
our soldiers and their families for the sacrifices they have made to 
protect our Nation.

When I drive past Arlington Cemetery each morning on my way to the 
U.S. Capitol, I'm always reminded of that sacrifice, sacrifice of those 
who, in the words of Lincoln, gave their last full measure of devotion 
to country.

When I met with several young amputees and double amputees earlier 
this week at a charity event for wounded warriors, I was reminded that 
the personal sacrifices of war do not end with the signing of a 
ceasefire agreement. When I visit the Waco VA hospital in my district, 
I'm reminded that the mental wounds of war can sometimes be as serious 
and as long-lasting as the physical wounds of combat.

One of the greatest privileges of my life was to represent for 14 
years Fort Hood, Texas, which is now so ably represented by my 
colleague and friend, Congressman Carter. Fort Hood is the Army's 
largest installation, and I had the privilege of representing it 
through three combat deployments.

When I think about our Army soldiers and their sacrifices, I cannot 
help but think about the young soldier, probably no older than 20 years 
old, I met in December of 1995. My wife was just three days away from 
giving birth to our first son J.T., and as an expectant first-time 
father, I could not help but be excited as I talked to this young 
soldier sitting next to his young, pregnant wife, talking about how 
excited I was to become a father.

This soldier, who was about to deploy for Bosnia, said without an air 
of complaint in his voice: Sir, I missed the birth of my first son 
because I was serving in Iraq, and I will miss the birth of my second 
child because I will be serving in Bosnia. He said, Sir, I'm proud to 
serve my country.

Madam Speaker, one cannot put a price on the sacrifice of a young 
father missing the birth of his two children. There are no makeup days 
for missed births, birthdays, anniversaries, and graduations. That is 
why we are so deeply grateful to our soldiers and their families.

To the spouses, children, parents, and loved ones of our Army 
soldiers, I say, you are the unsung heroes of our Nation's defense. 
Whether you have worn our Nation's uniform or not, you have truly 
served our country. For those family members who have lost loved ones 
in combat, we know you continue to sacrifice each and every day of your 
life.

Were it not for the U.S. Army and the magnificent men and women who 
have served in it and are serving in it today, the world would be a 
much different place, a less stable, a less free place.

Just a few weeks ago, I had the honor of meeting Len Lomell. Most 
Americans have not heard the name of Len Lomell. He lives in Toms 
River, New Jersey, with his wife. My wife and I took our two young 
sons, J.T. and Garrison, to meet with Mr. Lomell because in my book, he 
is a true American hero. As an Army soldier on D-day in 1944, Len 
Lomell joined with Earl Rudder and the Second Battalion Army Rangers 
and climbed up that difficult, life-threatening cliff in the face of 
German gunfire and grenades to try to knock out the five massive German 
guns that could have put at risk the entire Allied invasion of D-day.

Len Lomell, along with one other soldier, went out scouring for the 
guns because they had been moved, unknown


to Army intelligence, been moved away from that cliff that we know as 
Pointe du Hoc. It was Len Lomell who found those guns, and while nearly 
100 Germans were standing just a few yards away, took thermite grenades 
and put those grenades in two different trips back to those guns, put 
thermite grenades in those gear mechanisms of those guns and, in doing 
so, decommissioned all of them.

The great historian Steven Ambrose said that, next to Eisenhower, Len 
Lomell had more to do with the victory of D-day than any living person 
in this world.

I have to wonder would the world be different today had it not been 
for that great Army soldier Len Lomell and all the soldiers who served 
with him and all the soldiers who served before him and those great 
ones who have served after him.

Madam Speaker, we can never repay our soldiers such as Len Lomell, or 
the young soldier I met at Fort Hood, or Robert L. Howard, who died in 
my hometown of Waco this past December and was buried just 4 months ago 
in Arlington Cemetery after earning the Congressional Medal of Honor, 
the Distinguished Service Cross, the Silver Star and eight Purple 
Hearts in his five tours of duty in Vietnam.



We cannot repay the 82,000 U.S. Army soldiers serving in Iraq today 
or the 57,000 soldiers serving in Afghanistan, but let us always honor 
them, not just with our words and resolutions such as this one today, 
but with our deeds and our budgets every day.

Our Nation has a moral obligation to provide quality housing and 
health care for our troops and their families and first-class education 
for their children. Our Nation has a moral obligation to stand up for 
America's veterans because they have stood up for us.

A grateful Nation wishes our Army a happy 235th birthday. May God 
bless all our soldiers--past, present and future--for risking their 
lives to protect our divine gift of freedom.