# MOURNING THE LOSS OF LIFE ON AMERICAN SAMOA AND SAMOA AFTER THE  EARTHQUAKES AND TSUNAMIS ON SEPTEMBER 29, 2009
## `d0651a74b43bd764998083a1cc4f0c18`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 14 October 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. I thank the gentleman for the time.

Mr. Speaker, I was honored to join my good friend, Mr. Faleomavaega, 
in serving as an original cosponsor of this critical resolution. This 
resolution offers the condolences in a heartfelt way of the Congress to 
those who endured suffering and loss in American Samoa and Samoa and 
neighboring Tonga during the tragic events of September 29 and the 
aftermath. We join with the people of American Samoa, Samoa and the 
entire Samoan community here in the United States in mourning those who 
have died in this terrible disaster.



The previous tragic events of 2004 made us all keenly aware of the 
devastation which can be wrought by a tsunami after an earthquake takes 
place in ocean waters.

Waves from this tsunami in American Samoa were reportedly 20 feet 
high and rushed 1 mile inland, causing unprecedented death and 
destruction. The latest death toll reported is 32 dead in American 
Samoa and 135 dead in Samoa. Children mistakenly running in the 
direction of the tsunami were among the victims.

The Governor of American Samoa was quoted as saying that the quake 
and subsequent tsunami ranked right up there with some of the worst 
disasters to hit the area. Survivors are in urgent need of necessities, 
including water, adequate shelter, food, sanitation, and health care. 
Three hundred emergency responders have reportedly been dispatched by 
FEMA. The Red Cross, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the Department 
of Health and Human Services are coordinating relief and recovery 
operations.

The U.S. military, under the direction of the U.S. Pacific Command in 
Hawaii, is providing emergency assistance, including food, water, 
tents, blankets, and medical supplies. In this regard, military 
personnel are helping their friends and colleagues, as the young people 
of American Samoa are well known for their patriotic spirit of service 
in the United States military, including in both Iraq and Afghanistan. 
We appreciate and honor that service.

I urge my colleagues to give their strong support to this resolution.