---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `d06e71159cbab68fc6d0851f85c5ef6a`
`Mr. HATCH — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, one thing I can say for the distinguished 
Senator from Massachusetts is that he has been against this war from 
the beginning. He has taken what he considers to be a principled 
position, that we should never have gone into Iraq to begin with. 
However, much of what he said does not resolve the problems that we are 
confronting in the War on Terrorism. We hear lots of comments about 
pulling out of Iraq but not very much in the way of how to defeat the 
terrorists who are dedicated to destroying almost everything we hold 
dear and sacred.

The fact of the matter is this resolution is an illustration of 
wishful thinking. No matter what you call it: pulling our troops out, a 
phased withdrawal, or redeployment, those who support this seem to 
think everything is going to be hunky-dory and by taking this course we 
can resolve all our difficulties. Of course, they provide the usual 
language of diplomacy and some of the other things.

Look at what this resolution says. It says: Whereas, U.S. troops 
should not be policing a civil war; and the current conflict in Iraq 
requires principally a political solution.

The fact of the matter is we have three distinct areas in Iraq: The 
Kurds in the north, the Sunnis in the center, and the Shias everywhere 
else, including in the center.

There is a long history of animosity between these groups. But look 
at the progress that has been made: women now have the right to vote; 
young girls are able to go to school.

Eighty percent of the people voted for the representative form of 
government that they enjoy today. Remember, it took us 10 years to 
implement our Constitution.

What I have not heard from those who oppose the war is, how do we 
solve the problem of terrorism?

Let's be honest. Terrorism is something we have confronted 
sporadically throughout the years, though not at the same level of 
intensity as the last couple of years. When the Bader-Meinhof gang 
paralyzed Europe, a lot of people felt we should back away. But we 
supported our allies and, today, you don't hear about them. Similar 
things can be said about the fate of the Red Brigade. However, I fully 
recognize that these groups were minor compared to the terrorists in 
the Islamic world.

The fact is we are in a different war than we have ever been in 
before. We are fighting terrorists who don't wear uniforms, who don't 
represent a country; they represent an ideology. They are Salafi 
jihadists who, going back to the seventh century, when the Islamic 
people controlled much of the Mediterranean world, used force freely to 
achieve their objectives and, if you disagreed with them, they killed 
you.

We lost 3,000 people in 1 day in this country. As the author of the 
1996-1997 Antiterrorism Effective Death Penalty Act, I recognized that 
we did not give law enforcement the tools to be able to prevent 
terrorism in this country. One reason was we naively thought that we 
would never suffer from the type of terrorism that occurred on 9/11/
2001. The PATRIOT Act brought the antiterrorism laws that were 
deficient up to the level of the anti-Mafia laws.

Can you imagine what will happen if we don't take these people on and 
do what we can to stop them. What happens if one of them--and they are 
dedicated to doing this--gets a weapon of mass destruction and comes to 
New York, Washington, DC, Boston, Los Angeles, Chicago, Miami, or any 
number of other cities, and blows up the city and causes the deaths of 
hundreds of thousands of people?

They are dedicated to this. They don't value human life as we do. 
They believe they are going to be blessed for having killed the 
infidels.



The fact of the matter is that is what we are faced with--radical 
extremists who would harm our country if they could. The reason they 
cannot is because we have been taking it to them in Afghanistan and 
Iraq. It is not pleasant, there is no question. There are sacrifices 
being made--our soldiers are being deployed and redeployed. There is no 
question there are mistakes that have been made--everything from 
throwing the Baathists out of the military, many of whom were not 
Saddam Hussein loyalists, to thinking this operation would initially be 
treated by the Iraqi as a liberation.

There were lots of mistakes, but there are a lot of things that are 
good too.

The fact of the matter is, there are hospitals up and running, girls 
are going to school, women have some rights in Iraq--more than ever 
before--and upward of 80 percent of the people voted for a 
representative form of government. We should never lose track of that. 
None of this would have happened had it not been for our soldiers and 
others in the coalition who were willing to fight, the fact is that 
When we get into documents such as this, basically what we are doing is 
making it very difficult for our young men and women serving in combat. 
Many of whom are risking their lives for us that they might be able to 
prevent terrorism from taking over the world and especially the USA.

We know there are terrorist supporters in our country. If we didn't 
have a PATRIOT Act, we would not be able to monitor them.

This resolution says:




 The President shall promptly transition the mission of the 


 United States forces in Iraq to the limited purposes set 


 forth in subsection (b).



 (B) Commencement of Phased Redeployment From Iraq--The 


 President shall commence the phased redeployment of United 


 States forces from Iraq not later than 120 days after the 


 date of the enactment of this joint resolution, with the goal 


 of redeploying, by March 31, 2008, all United States combat 


 forces from Iraq except for a limited number that are 


 essential for the following purposes:


I like that word ''essential.''




 (1) Protecting United States and coalition personnel and 


 infrastructure.


My gosh, can you imagine if we pull out? The terrorists will come in 
and try to capture that oil wealth to use against the rest of the 
world, especially us.




 (2) Training and equipping Iraqi forces.


How are we going to do that if we redeploy our forces out? We know 
that by training and equipping them, we may be able to help them 
bolster their representative form of government. Keep in mind, I made 
the point earlier, it took us 10 years to develop our Constitution and 
their's is functioning after 2 years. It took us years to solidify the 
strength of our country so we have this great representative form of 
government that we have in America today.

If we leave who is going to train and equip those Iraqi forces? Are 
we going to leave a small contingent of our people there to be murdered 
or are we going to be able to protect them and train and equip the 
Iraqi forces? Will anyone have any confidence in us if we leave?

It is interesting to me that as we have started this so-called surge, 
al-Sadr and others have left their bases. True, they are probably going 
away and hoping to come back; but if we can establish--and General 
Petraeus says we can--ourselves and the Iraqi Government in Baghdad so 
that they know they can take care of it themselves, it is going to 
be much more difficult for al-Sadr and the other brigades to come back 
and cause the havoc they have been causing.


Who is going to train and equip these forces? Oddly enough, it is 
interesting to me that this body voted 100 to 0 to back General 
Petraeus, and ever since we have done that, some here have done nothing 
but undermine the very thing he said we have to do. It should also be 
noted that this new strategy appears to be working.

We ought to give General Petraeus the opportunity to do it. He has 
said he will shoot straight with us. If he finds that the strategy is 
not working, he said he will let us know. He has been a straight 
shooter from the beginning. He was been a breath of fresh air. He 
understands counterinsurgency warfare. He has written the Army's Manual 
on this subject. We ought to give him a chance to do what he says he 
can do.




 (3) Conducting targeted counterterrorism operations.


How does this small, ''limited number,'' to use the terms of this 
particular S.J. Res. 9, target counterterrorism operations? I guess we 
will have to do it through intelligence gathering. I happen to be on 
the Intelligence Committee, and I know all too well it is very 
difficult to establish human intelligence networks.

Think about that. Bring them all out, redeploy them by March 31, 
2008--all U.S. combat forces from Iraq, except for a limited number 
that are, again, essential for the following purposes:




 (1) Protecting United States and coalition personnel and 


 infrastructure.



 How does that small contingency do that?



 (2) Training and equipping Iraqi forces.



 (3) Conducting targeted counterterrorism operations.


My gosh, every one of them would be murdered on the spot if we didn't 
have enough people there to provide security.

This is ridiculous.




 (C) Comprehensive Strategy.


This is to make it look good, like they are trying to do something 
good. Here is what it says:




 Subsection (b) shall be implemented as part of a 


 comprehensive diplomatic, political, and economic strategy . 


 . .


In other words, pulling out all our people except for this ''limited 
number,'' to use their language--




 Subsection (b) shall be implemented as part of a 


 comprehensive diplomatic, political, and economic strategy.


Diplomatic? I know one thing. If you want to make sure diplomacy 
works, make sure it is backed up by force. We are not backing it up by 
pulling all of our troops out, except for that ''limited number.''

OK. How is that diplomacy going to work if they don't realize we are 
there to accomplish our mission? OK. Again, it says:




 Subsection (b) shall be implemented as part of a 


 comprehensive diplomatic, political . . .


What do you think we are trying to do? Maliki, is pulling out the 
stops to help us.




 . . . as part of a comprehensive diplomatic, political, and 


 economic strategy . . .


What happens if we pull our troops out of there and, all of a sudden, 
we have a renewed effort by terrorists to assault us on our mainland 
because we are not keeping them at bay over there? Can you imagine the 
cost to our society? Can you imagine if we pull out of there and there 
is widespread civil war and genocide that will occur, just like in 
Southeast Asia when we pulled out there? Millions of people died. I am 
not so sure we should have been in Southeast Asia, but I feel confident 
we should be here. It says:




 . . . that includes sustained engagement with Iraq's 


 neighbors and the international community for the purpose of 


 working collectively to bring stability to Iraq.


Those are nice, high-flying words. If our diplomacy is not backed up 
by our willingness to take these people on, I suspect we are going to 
have more than a 9/11, 3,000-person loss in this country. When we have 
many more people killed as a result of terrorism in our country because 
they will be emboldened by this type of resolution, then it seems to me 
that we are going to pay a price that will be much higher than what we 
are paying now. We have to take these people on. We cannot walk away. 
There are too many people who have relied on us.

Admittedly, we at least need to give General Petraeus and the current 
forces there a chance to make this work. He says he believes he can do 
it. But he also is a straight shooter and has said: If we cannot do it, 
I will tell you we cannot. That may be the time when we will have to 
say there is not much more we can do there. I know one thing. The 
moderate Arabs are very concerned about what is going on over there. 
They know that if the United States doesn't have its full influence in 
the Middle East, there is going to be chaos. They know that these 
Wahhabi, Salafi jihadists will make mincemeat of the Middle East, and 
they will be emboldened if we walk out of there and act like we can 
work diplomatically on some of these problems. I think diplomacy is 
very important. But it needs


to be backed up by a strong military plan, so they know we are not 
going to put up with a lot of foolery.

Look, I think there are sincere people on both sides of this debate. 
But I challenge the other side, who believes in this type of a 
resolution, to show us how you prevent the terrorists from coming here. 
Show us how you are going to win this war against terrorism. Show us 
how you are going to make a difference in the lives of all those who 
have lost loved ones thus far, not only on 9/11 but those who have 
given their lives for us over in Iraq.

Show us how pulling the troops out is going to defeat the terrorists. 
Tell us what happens after this resolution becomes law. Their plan 
offers only one option: making the United States look like it lost to 
the terrorists in the Middle East. That would be one of the worst 
things that could happen to our Nation and one of the worst messages we 
could send to the world.

I don't find fault with anybody who sincerely believes in a 
resolution such as this, but I question whether they have thought it 
through. Have they looked at the intelligence? Have they listened to 
our Armed Forces, who know they are fighting for something worthwhile, 
who know they are fighting for freedom, and who know they are fighting 
for the Iraqi people. Our military fully realizes they are not only 
fighting, as they had to, to overturn a vicious, cruel dictator, but to 
create stability in a place that needs stability almost more than 
anything else. Our servicemembers also know that we have moderate Arab 
friends who are pulling for us. Allies, in the region, who hope we will 
succeed because they know they will be next. And if we fail, we will 
pay a price like nothing we have paid before.

As I said, everyone in this body is a friend of mine. However, I 
strongly disagree with those who think this is a good resolution. I do 
not question their integrity or their desire to try and find some 
solution. But this certainly is no solution. This is a walk away that 
will cause us greater problems in the future. If that happens, we are 
all going to reap the whirlwind.

I have no doubt, as a member of the Intelligence Committee, that 
there are terrorists who would love to destroy our country. There are 
some, who if set free, would do everything in their power to destroy 
our nation.

Frankly, we cannot walk away until we give General Petraeus and our 
servicemembers an opportunity to win this war.

We have never fought a war such as this. I do not blame anybody who 
is concerned that we are paying too high a price. But I ask people to 
think about the higher price we will pay if we don't win this war. I 
ask my fellow citizens to understand that we are fighting people who 
are dedicated to destroying those who disagree with them and there will 
be a heavy price to be paid if we walk away from our responsibilities.

There is a good reason why we have not had a major terrorist incident 
since 9/11/2001. We have shown the will to take these people on, and to 
disrupt their plans. We have captured or killed a large number of these 
terrorists, including members of al-Qaida leadership. We have bottled 
up Osama bin Laden and Zawahiri.

If we walk away because of this resolution, it seems to me we will 
pay a much heavier price later, and I am very concerned about that.

My family lost my only living brother in World War II. He flew on one 
of the air raids that helped destroy Hitler's oilfields. It was a price 
our family paid. I am very proud of my brother Jesse. He was fighting 
for freedom, and he did not walk away from the threat Hitler posed. 
Today, we once again live in dangerous times, possibly even more 
dangerous. We cannot leave Iraq until we give General Petraeus and our 
troops the opportunity to accomplish their mission. We should not 
undermine their efforts with this resolution.

Though I respect my colleagues differing opinions I believe this 
resolution undermines their efforts--the efforts of those young men and 
women who are sacrificing for us overseas.

We should not decide these matters based on polls. Unfortunately, I 
think we have far too many people who are paying attention to the 
polls. I look at some of the candidates for President today, how they 
have changed their positions gradually because they think the polls 
require it. We are not here to respond to polls. We are here to do what 
we believe is in the best interest of our country. Some sincerely 
disagree with me and I understand that. But I believe it is their 
solemn duty to explain what we are going to do if we pull out of Iraq. 
Will we not create a myriad of other problems? Will not the entire 
Middle East become a war zone? Under such conditions, Israel itself 
will be threatened as well as moderate Arab countries. We cannot walk 
away, and we cannot allow the whole Middle East to descend into the 
Salafis jihadist arms.

I hope our colleagues will think these matters through. I certainly 
hope they will vote against this joint resolution.

Many of my colleagues voted to bring forth this debate. I understand 
their reasoning. However, I could not vote for this debate because the 
resolution is faulty on its face.

I don't know anybody who worries more about our young men and women 
who are sacrificing over there than I do because our family has lived 
through it. Not only did we lose a brother in the Second World War, but 
we lost a brother-in-law in Vietnam. Just a few years ago, my family 
buried another brother-in-law who served with the Marines in Vietnam 
and rose to the rank of First Sergeant. I feel deeply about these 
matters, but if we don't stand up and do what is right, we will reap 
the whirlwind. It will cost us more than it is costing us right now, 
and today's cost is significant.

Mr. President, I wanted to say these few words. I hope we will defeat 
this resolution. I think it will be in the best interest of the country 
and in the best interest of the world.

I yield the floor.