---
---

# SUPPORTING THE GOALS OF INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY
## `d078f73deeeed437c89710b77439925a`
`Ms. WATSON — 16 March 2009`

---


Ms. WATSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in enthusiastic support for H. 
Res. 194 a resolution supporting the goals of International Women's 
Day. For the last century March 8th has been a day for people to unite 
in their commitment to honor the women who courageously fight for 
gender equality and women's rights across the globe.

The course of women's history through the 20th and 21st centuries has 
been on an upward trajectory, and while we celebrate how far we have 
come, it is important to pause and reflect on the reality that women 
continue to face political and economic obstacles, discrimination, and 
violence all over the world.

While there are many who deserve our appreciation, I would like to 
recognize the women of Afghanistan who have begun to steadily chip at 
the steel grasp of patriarchy, and begun to fight for safety and 
justice.

Before 2003 the idea of a women's shelter in Afghanistan was unheard 
of, and domestic abuse victims who did seek protection from law 
enforcement were often thrown in jail or returned to their husbands, 
perpetuating a culture of silence around the practices of beating, 
torture, and forced marriage.

Now, shelters like the Women for Afghan Women in Kabul and the Afghan 
Women Skills Development Center provide protection, treatment, and 
legal services to women who might otherwise have resigned themselves to 
a life of quiet misery, or resorted to suicide.

These shelters, like others around the world, provide solace and 
safety for women with nowhere else to turn. They provide the basic hope 
of possibilities for those seeking a safe haven from abuse. Before 
these shelters existed many Afghan women could only dream of a life in 
their own control, and now they have hope.

I would like to thank my colleague Congresswoman Schakowsky for 
sponsoring this important resolution which allows us to stand and 
celebrate our common ideals with the 3 billion women across the globe 
in dignity and certitude that one day women will live free of 
discrimination and violence no matter where they were born.
