# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `d07f9186c8ca7745f5ebbc6eb870a00b`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Madam President, I thank the Senator from Connecticut 
for yielding time on this critically important issue.

As we have been here debating on the floor for the last 2 weeks now 
the respective issues relative to the priorities from a Defense 
authorization standpoint, we have done everything other than going from 
increasing pay for our military personnel to the termination of what I 
argued on the floor last week and this week of the latest, most 
technologically advanced warfighting machine that has ever been 
produced by mankind. But the decision was made to terminate the F-22.

The F-22, not only from a technology standpoint, was providing 
valuable test material for the follow-on fighter, but it also is 
powered by two engines, one engine of which is going to be on the F-35. 
And here we are now talking about the issue of whether we should 
continue with a competitive second engine for an airplane that now has 
an engine that is being flown, has been flown, has been tested by the 
Air Force on the F-22. It has successfully flown on the F-22 for years 
now, and also has flown successfully in what limited testing has been 
done on the F-35.

We have put all of our eggs in the F-35 basket now. As I said during 
the debate on the F-22, I am a big supporter of the F-35. It is a great 
airplane. I know it is going to succeed. But we are at a point, with 
respect to the cost of all weapons systems, where we have to look more 
toward where we are going to be in future years from a cost standpoint 
and with regard to what we are able to provide our men and women.

When you look at items that need to be included in the mix from a 
competition standpoint, there is nobody who supports competition more 
than I do. That is the reason I supported the second engine--up to a 
point in time. But when it came up again last year, it was pretty 
obvious we were at a point where the engine, manufactured by Pratt & 
Whitney--two of which fly on the F-22; only one of which is needed for 
the F-35--is a good engine. It is doing the job. It has passed the 
test. So I decided last year we needed to move away from the spending 
of the money on the second engine, and let's concentrate on providing, 
obviously, the two engines for the F-22, and the one engine on the F-
35.

We have something else thrown into the mix. I did not support Senator 
Bayh's amendment in committee, for what I still think are all of the 
right reasons from the standpoint of: Do we need competition for an 
engine that is successful? For an engine we know is working? For an 
engine for which we know what the cost is today?

Why do we need the second engine? Well, I know detractors have said--
and they have made the argument to me--that: Look, that engine may 
fail. Something may happen to that engine. I agree for a point in time 
that could have happened. But we have been at this with respect to the 
engine that is powering the F-35 for years now, and it is a success. So 
I reached a point in time last year when I decided we did not need the 
additional competition from the standpoint of the second engine and, 
obviously, the committee reached that same result this year.

Now we are changing horses a little bit more. Instead of using the 
discontinuance of the helicopters, the Marine helicopters, we are 
taking money from six C-130Js to fund the competitive second engine for 
the F-35, and the competition is going to be between the new engine we 
have tested and have had in production now for several years against an 
engine we know to be successful.

Well, the issue has gotten even more sensitive to me because I know 
how critically important the C-130J is to our men and women who are in 
combat today--not those who might be going into combat and might need 
this weapon system somewhere down the road. Our men and women in 
theater today depend every single day on the C-130J, and on the C-
130Hs, even, that are old airplanes, that are in theater, that are 
flying our men and women. They are looking to get the new C-130Js to 
help them transport themselves as well as equipment from one part of 
the theater to the other, from outside the theater into the theater. 
Our special operations men and women are looking to the C-130J for the 
gunship operations they carry out.

Here we are going to say to those men and women: Well, we think it is 
more important to have competition for a second engine against an 
engine we know is successful than it is to provide you with the latest, 
most technologically advanced airlift capability we can give you. That 
makes no sense whatsoever to me from a national security standpoint.

All of us have been to Iraq and Afghanistan at some point or another. 
I have been to Iraq eight times. I have been to Afghanistan twice. When 
we go over there, we fly into either Kuwait or Jordan or some 
neighboring country. Then we are transported from that country into 
Iraq or into Afghanistan. What have we flown on? I would say not 99 
percent of the time but 100 percent of the time when we are transported 
into theater, we fly on C-130s. All of us have had the experience of 
seeing date plates on C-130s we are flying on into theater, where 
rockets are being fired occasionally at those weapons systems, and we 
have had some issues relative to that. But the date plates on those 
airplanes we fly on almost consistently are in the 1960s or 1970s.

So today what we are asking our men and women to do is to fly C-130s 
that are 40 years old, 30 years old, or whatever it may be, that are 
not equipped with the latest, most technologically advanced weapons 
systems, and here we are saying to those men and women that we are 
going to take away from you the entrance of additional C-130Js into 
theater because we think it is important we have competition for a 
second engine on the F-35.

This makes absolutely no sense from either a fiscal standpoint or a 
national security standpoint. The C-130J is a great airplane. We have 
nine of them in this authorization bill. This particular amendment 
takes six of those nine out of the bill and pays for the funding--the 
remainder of the funding--on the second engine. That second engine is a 
great engine. It has performed magnificently. But it is competing with 
an engine that also is performing magnificently.

So to say we now ought to take a weapons system, such as the C-130J 
that our men and women depend on every single day to fly them around 
within Afghanistan--because they need these airplanes to land, they 
need an airplane that can land on a short runway; and the C-130 has 
that capability to fly our men and women around Iraq, to fly our men 
and women who carry out special operations and missions and have the 
gunships--the guns that are mounted on the C-130J to be transformed 
into a gunship--we are going to take away that capability and that need 
from our men and women to fund a second engine for an airplane that 
already has an engine on it, that is performing well, that we know is 
successful, for which we know how much it costs today. It is not like 
we are going to see a reduction in price on the engine of the F-35 
because we complete the testing and the procurement of an alternative 
engine. That is not going to happen, and that is not the issue. The 
issue comes down to the point of are we going to take, in this case, a 
weapon system away from our men and women to fund a second engine to 
compete with an engine that is already successful.


I would say that, obviously, I felt very strongly and was very 
emotional about the discontinuance of the F-22 for all of the right 
reasons, but this is one of those issues that makes even less sense 
than the discontinuance of the F-22. We need to make sure we spend tax 
money wisely. We have had the competition on the F-35. It is time we 
move down the road of building and procuring as many of those as we 
can. With the ramp-up this bill calls for, under the direction of the 
chairman, we are going to be buying a lot of F-35s in a short period of 
time. They have a great engine on them today. It works. It is 
successful. That is where we need to concentrate. That is where we need 
to spend our money. We don't need to spend the money on the second 
engine, nor do we need to take six C-130 airplanes out of this budget 
to pay for an engine we are probably never going to buy.

So I would simply urge my colleagues to vote in support of the 
Lieberman amendment and to vote against the Bayh second-degree 
amendment.

I yield the floor.

