# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `d0910f189d837851addb01fd31c632cc`
`Mr. CONRAD — 13 July 2007`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, it has now been 2,131 days since 9/11. I 
think all of us remember that day. It was a horrific day. I will never 
forget having given a speech over in Crystal City that morning and 
having driven past the Pentagon, only to get to the Capitol and see 
that the Pentagon had been attacked and then seeing the incredible 
images from the World Trade Center and those buildings collapsing.

The President said at the time that we would hold Osama bin Laden and 
al-Qaida to account, that we would smoke them out of their holes, and 
that we would bring them to justice. It is 2,131 days later, and still 
Osama bin Laden has not been brought to justice, nor has Mr. Zawahiri, 
who now regularly broadcasts additional threats against our country.

I believe a very serious strategic mistake was made when the 
President chose to go to Iraq instead of finishing business with al-
Qaida. In fact, we know special forces, who are experts in Arab 
culture, in Arab language, were transferred from the hunt in 
Afghanistan for Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida. Those special forces were 
shifted to the hunt for Saddam Hussein in Iraq. They were replaced by 
experts in Spanish culture. There are not many Spanish speakers in 
Afghanistan.

I have always believed it was a profound mistake not to finish 
business with Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida.

I had the benefit of going to high school at an American military 
base in Tripoli, Libya, north Africa, and living in the Arab culture 
for 2 years. I think I learned a great deal from that experience about 
that culture. I think strategically it has been a profound mistake for 
us to go into Iraq instead of keeping our focus and effort and energy 
on the people who did attack us--al-Qaida, led by Osama bin Laden, and 
not Saddam Hussein, the leader of Iraq. As awful and despicable a 
character as Saddam Hussein was, that should not have been the focus of 
our effort. The people who attacked us were al-Qaida, not Iraq.

Now we learn al-Qaida is ''considerably operationally stronger than a 
year ago'' and has ''regrouped to an extent not seen since 2001,'' a 
counterterrorism official said, paraphrasing a new intelligence 
report's conclusions. They are ''showing greater and greater ability to 
plan attacks in Europe and the United States.'' Are we not paying 
attention? Al-Qaida, according to these reports, has increased from 
20,000 terrorist operatives to 50,000.

We need to redirect the emphasis and the focus of our security 
efforts and go after Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida. That is what this 
amendment does. It doubles the bounty on Osama bin Laden.