---
---

# AMERICAN HOUSING RESCUE AND FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008
## `d0945d839281a8b2b7e0c5542d797dd0`
`Mr. DORGAN — 25 June 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, yesterday, there was a hearing in the 
Congress, on the House side, dealing with someone I have spoken about 
on the floor at some length, and I wish to talk about that hearing and 
what it means. Then, following that, I wish to speak about the bill I 
introduced yesterday dealing with the price of gas and oil and oil 
speculation.

First, let me talk about the hearing yesterday and what we learned 
about the Defense Department and the State Department and others 
dealing with this man. This man's name is Efraim Diveroli. He is 22 
years old and the president and chief executive officer of a firm that 
was awarded $300 million in contracts by our Federal Government. So 
this is a guy who took over a shell corporation that his dad had, and 
he was awarded $300 million in Defense Department contracts. He was the 
president of the company at age 22. He had a vice president, though. It 
is not as if the company was understaffed. This is a photograph of his 
25-year-old vice president, who is a massage therapist--David Packouz. 
He was called a masseur, or massage therapist. So these two guys ran a 
company in Florida that had an unmarked office door. At one point, Mr. 
Diveroli, the CEO, says he was the only employee and at another point 
it was he and his vice president, the massage therapist.

They got $300 million from the Federal Government, from the Defense 
Department, and they were to provide weapons and ammunition to the 
Afghan fighters because our Defense Department wanted to help the 
Afghan fighters take on the Taliban in Afghanistan. Well, here is what 
these folks provided to the fighters in Afghanistan--40-year-old 
Chinese cartridges which came in boxes that were all taped and falling 
apart--this is an example. They were made in China in the mid-1960s. It 
is pretty unbelievable. The fighters in Afghanistan said this was junk 
coming from this company that got $300 million in contracts from the 
Defense Department.

Now, I had the three-star general come to my office. I am on the 
Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, and we shovel a lot of money 
out the door for a lot of these Defense needs, some legitimate, some 
not, and I had a lengthy meeting with the three-star general who was in 
charge of this. I said: How on Earth could you have given a contract to 
a company run by a 22-year-old, who had very little experience, running 
a shell company his dad owned, a company where his vice president was a 
massage therapist? This is a joke, except it is not a joke when the 
American taxpayers are fleeced. He gave me a hundred excuses, this 
three-star general did.



But all he would have had to do is go to MySpace. Pull this man up on 
MySpace, the president of this company, and here is what he says on 
MySpace.




 I like to go clubbing, go to a movie. I have taken a really 


 liking towards fine Scotch whiskey. I have had problems in 


 high school, so I was forced to work most of my teen years.


He probably grew up a little fast.




 Got a decent apartment. Am content for the moment.


Go to MySpace. Is this the CEO of a company you want to give $300 
million in contracts to?

This is an outrage. So a hearing was held yesterday, and here is what 
the hearing disclosed. There was a watch list at the State Department. 
This company--these guys--had small contracts with the State 
Department, and the State Department had compiled a watch list of 
80,000 individuals and companies suspected of illegal arms 
transgressions and other things, including this company. Well, the fact 
is, the Defense Department never checked the State Department. 
Contracts have been pulled from this little company, but the Defense 
Department never checked, so they give them a $300 million contract, or 
a series of contracts, worth $300 million.

The reason they say it didn't show up is because they don't check on 
contractors that maybe are bad contractors if the contract is less than 
$5 million. That is, apparently, an asterisk.

I mean, I don't understand this at all. Government officials failed 
to review several of these contracts from this little company that had 
been canceled or delayed. They never raised red flags because they fell 
under the $5 million contract value that was the warning threshold. The 
contracting officer with the Army Sustainment Command had overruled a 
contracting team that raised concerns about this company. They said 
there was substantial doubt, but nonetheless the company got the 
contracts. Listen, this is shameful. We ought to do--and, yes, we in 
the Senate as well--ought to do a detailed investigation. We should 
bring people here under subpoena, if necessary, to find out who made 
these judgments and why they are still working for the Federal 
Government. Why aren't they long ago gone from the Federal payroll? 
This is not the end of it or all of it. I have spoken about dozens and 
dozens of contracts that are similar to this.

At any rate, yesterday, this hearing occurred in the House. I commend 
Congressman Waxman, who has been doing some of the most significant 
work in the Congress in investigating this. We need to investigate this 
on the defense spending side as well, those who appropriate this 
funding. This is shameful, and I think everybody involved in it ought 
to be embarrassed. We are shoveling money out the door to support the 
war in Iraq and Afghanistan.


I have shown pictures on the floor of the Senate of one-hundred 
dollar bills wrapped in Saran Wrap the size of bricks, and the guy 
distributing that cash in Iraq said he told contractors our motto was: 
We pay in cash, you bring a bag. It was like the Wild West, he said.

You think money isn't wasted? You think there isn't stolen money over 
there, when you are distributing money out of the back of a pickup 
truck and we are airlifting one-hundred dollar bills on C-130s, flight 
after flight, full of cash?

This is unbelievable what is happening with this contracting abuse, 
and this is one, small example.

I think all those involved in it ought to be brought before 
congressional committees and that we demand answers from them. Who is 
responsible, who is accountable on behalf of the American taxpayer? If 
they can't answer, they ought not be on the public payroll.

That takes care of my need for therapy to talk about this issue. It 
is almost unbelievable that the American taxpayer, en masse, is not 
gathering outside this Capitol saying, when we hear this kind of thing, 
we are outraged. So let me be outraged on behalf of them and say this 
cannot be allowed to continue.













 Speculating on Oil and Gas


Mr. President, I came to the floor to talk about the issue of the 
price of gasoline. I had a guy in my office the other day that was the 
president of one of the larger corporations and this company was 
engaged in trading and all these issues. He was a fast talker. I mean, 
it was unbelievable to me. When he finished talking, I was out of 
breath. He was one of these guys who talked and talked and talked. His 
point was: Look, everything is working fine. The price of oil, the 
price of gas, that is what the market says it is. I said: Well, it 
appears to me there are substantial amounts of speculation. Over a 
period of time in this world we have seen some dramatic growth in 
speculation in certain areas. When it happens, the markets break and 
you have to come back and herd the speculators out and have markets 
available for the legitimate transactions.

This person said: Speculation, are you kidding me? These are normal 
transactions on the commodities market, the futures market for oil, as 
an example. There is supply, demand, and people are involved. I said: 
Well, tell me this, if you would: What has happened in the last 15 
months? Tell me what has happened with respect to supply and demand 
that justifies doubling the price of oil in the futures market? Can you 
tell me? Then he spoke for 45 minutes, almost uninterrupted, and had 
not answered the question.

I said: That makes my point. At the end of this meeting, you can't 
answer the question because nothing has happened in the last 15 months 
that demonstrably alters the supply-and-demand relationship or that 
justifies what has happened with the price of oil. Nothing justifies 
doubling the price of oil in the last 15 months. The only conclusion 
you can come to--and many have and I certainly have--is that we have a 
carnival of speculation in the futures market by a lot of big-time 
speculators interested in making money. They do not want to own oil or 
take possession of oil. They do not want to use oil. They wouldn't be 
able to recognize oil at first blush. They wouldn't even be able to 
lift a 30-gallon drum of oil. They just want to make money speculating 
on oil.

So if we have a bunch of speculators in this carnival of greed who 
rush into these markets and drive up prices well beyond what the 
fundamentals would justify, it breaks the market. If the market is 
broken, we have a responsibility to set it right. When the commodities 
market for oil was established in 1936 by legislation, Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt said we have to be careful to have the tools to stop the 
speculators from taking over these markets. There is a specific piece 
in the 1936 act that talks about excessive speculation.

There is excessive speculation in the marketplace now, and it is 
running up the price of oil and gas. It is hurting every single 
American family, it is damaging this economy, it is dramatically 
injuring industries--such as airlines, truckers, farming, and others. 
The question is, What should we do about it?

Should we sit here somewhere in a crevasse between daydreaming and 
thumbsucking and decide to do nothing? Or should we finally decide we 
have to take some action when a market is broken?

Let me go through a couple charts. I have used them before so it is 
repetitious, but it seems to me it is useful repetition in describing a 
very serious problem.

Here is what has happened to the price of oil. There is no event in 
here that suggests this should be the price of oil. You double the 
price. There is nothing in here that justifies doubling the price. The 
fact is, people are driving less in this period. There were 4.5 or 5 
billion fewer miles driven in this country in a 6-month period; 4.5 to 
5 billion fewer miles driven, less gasoline used. That means lower 
demand. At the same time, in the first 4 or 5 months of this year, we 
saw crude inventory stocks rise, not fall. If inventory is going up and 
demand is going down, what is happening to the price of oil and 
gasoline? It is going up? That doesn't make any sense. That is not 
logical. That is a market that is broken.

Let me analyze what all that means. This is what a commodity exchange 
looks like. This is the New York Mercantile Exchange, called NYMEX. 
There are a bunch of folks who trade. They come to work and do a 
legitimate job. They are trained to do this job, and they are trading 
on behalf of others. But what has changed is, instead of it being just 
a legitimate market for


hedging between those who produce and those who consume, wanting to 
hedge a physical commodity, we have now people in this market who have 
no relationship to this commodity.

Will Rogers described it a decade ago. He described people who buy 
things they will never get from people who never had it, making money 
on both sides. That is speculation.

Here is what some folks have said about these issues. Let me 
describe, first, before I describe what some other folks have said 
about it, the 1935 act. It says, this is the commodities act that 
establishes this--




 This bill authorizes the Commission . . . to fix 


 limitations upon purely speculative trades and commitments. 


 Hedging transactions are expressly exempted.


The point is the underlying bill authorizes the regulator, the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to fix limitations on purely 
speculative trades. That is exactly what the Commission is supposed to 
do. But the Commission has largely taken a vacation from reality. It 
seems to have no interest in regulating. I am talking especially about 
the chairman and those who control the Commission.

Here is Fadel Gheit, 30 years as the top energy analyst for 
Oppenheimer & Co. He testified before our committee. I have spoken to 
him a couple times by phone. Here is what he says:




 There is absolutely no shortage of oil. I'm convinced that 


 oil prices should not be a dime above $55 a barrel. I call it 


 the world's largest gambling hall. . . . It's open 24/7. . . 


 . Unfortunately, it's totally unregulated. . . . This is like 


 a highway with no cops on the beat and no speed limit and 


 everybody's going 120 miles an hour.


I encourage my colleagues, if you want to understand what is 
happening in this market, call Mr. Gheit. He has been involved as an 
energy trader with the large companies. He will give you an earful. I 
have had the opportunity to hear him not only in committee, but I 
called him as well and had a conversation about speculation.

The president of Marathon Oil Company: ''$100 oil isn't justified by 
the physical demand of the market.''

I am going to have a hearing this afternoon with the head of the 
Energy Information Administration, EIA. I fund this agency in my 
appropriations subcommittee--Mr. Caruso heads it. I wish to show what 
the EIA has projected on all these occasions for the price of oil and 
gasoline.

In May of last year, they projected this yellow line. That is where 
the price would go. In July of last year, they projected this yellow 
line. In September, they projected this. Do you see what the momentum 
is? In terms of what they are projecting, in every case they are 
demonstrably wrong--not just wrong by a little, wrong by a lot.

We spend over $100 million for this agency to get the best and 
brightest, to determine as best they can what is going to happen to the 
price of oil. They have always believed the price is essentially going 
to remain about the same or go down. The price, however, has gone way 
up. Why? Because unbridled speculation exists in this market with 
speculators driving up these prices.

Despite that, the EIA testifies and has testified repeatedly: They 
see some speculation but not very much.

If they believe this represents the fundamentals in the marketplace, 
how on Earth could the best estimators in an agency we spend $100 
million a year on--how could they be this wrong? There is something 
fundamentally wrong with that piece.

Finally, 2 days ago, the House released a report that was done by a 
House subcommittee that talked about the explosion of speculation on 
the futures market. It went from 37 percent speculative trades in 2000 
to 71 percent of the trades now that are ''speculation.''

I describe all that to say I have introduced legislation. I am 
talking to Republicans and Democrats in the Senate, hopeful of 
garnering cosponsors to move this legislation that addresses this issue 
by saying to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission: You have the 
authority to do the following, and you should do the following, just 
going back and reading the underlying law that created you. No. 1, 
identify those trades that represent legitimate hedging trades between 
a producer and a consumer with a physical product in which they wish to 
hedge risk. That is precisely what the market was established for. 
Distinguish that kind of trading from all other trading which 
represents nonlegitimate hedging, or speculation.

Once you have determined what body of trading represents speculative 
trading--and it has been a carnival of greed, in my judgment, rushing 
and pushing up the amount of speculative trading, as I have shown--once 
you have done that, I suggest we impose a 25-percent margin on the 
speculative trading that is going on, in order to try to wring some of 
that excess speculation out of this market.

No. 2, I suggest the regulator have the opportunity to use their 
authority to either revoke or modify all their previous actions, 
including their ''no action'' letters, in order to shine the light on 
and see and regulate all the transactions that have to do with American 
products or trading in this country.

Strangely enough, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission itself 
said, for example, the Intercontinental Exchange, largely owned by 
American interests, that trades in London--that you can come here, you 
can set up an office in Atlanta, you can trade on computers in Atlanta, 
and we will decide of our own volition that we will not regulate you 
and you will be outside the purview of our sight. That is an 
unbelievably bad decision, and it needs to be revoked--not just that 
decision but so many others similar to it.

It would be nice if we would have a regulatory body that says our job 
is to regulate. We pay for regulatory bodies for the purpose of wearing 
the striped shirts; they are the referees, they call the fouls.

I think, having taught some economics in college, that the best 
allocator of goods and services in this country that I know of is the 
marketplace. Markets are wonderful. I am a big supporter of markets. 
But when markets are broken, the Government has a responsibility to 
act. We have a regulator that has been oblivious to open markets, in 
fact has accelerated and actually helped break them. I believe our 
responsibility at this point is to set this regulator straight and 
decide here are the conditions by which we own up to the 
responsibilities of the original act--allowing for legitimate trading 
and hedging but trying to shut down the speculation that has driven up 
the price of gasoline and that injures every family and every business 
in this country and damages the American economy.

My hope is, in the coming couple days and weeks, that Congress, and 
the Senate especially, will be able to consider the bill I have 
authored. There are other good ideas as well. I welcome all of them. 
But I think this is not a circumstance in which one of the options for 
the Congress is to do nothing. The American people expect more and 
deserve more and I think should get more from this Congress.

I have spoken to Senator Reid and many others, who are also very 
interested in moving on these issues. I hope it will be bipartisan. I 
am very interested in having Republicans and Democrats work on 
perfecting these issues so we can take action very soon.

I yield the floor.