---
---

# SUPPORTING SPIRIT OF '45 DAY
## `d0a8aeb44a5f4676b64fbea8b3687317`
`Mr. PETRI — 26 July 2010`

---


Mr. PETRI. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 
226, to commemorate the end of World War II by observing ''Spirit of 
'45 Day.'' On August 14, 1945, the people of the United States received 
word of the long awaited end of the war. While there was celebration, 
there also was recognition of the 400,000 Americans who gave their 
lives to this effort.

This day marks the gratitude we have for our veterans, their 
families, and their sacrifice. We reflect on the beginning of a new era 
following the war, and the rebuilding of nations with the common goal 
of developing and maintaining a more peaceful global community. We 
celebrate the strengthening of American democracy, freedom and service 
to community and country. We are proud of the unprecedented national 
effort to defeat forces of aggression.

The achievements of the past continue to be relevant today. The World 
War II generation, often referred to as the Greatest Generation, is a 
model of courage and determination that serves as a source of 
inspiration not only for the men and women serving in Iraq, Afghanistan 
and around the world, but for civilians as well. It is important we 
recognize and honor their dedication and self-sacrifice.

That is why as we approach the 65th anniversary of the end of World 
War II, I proudly support the observance of the second Sunday in August 
as ''Spirit of '45 Day'' to commemorate the end of World War II on 
August 14, 1945.