# None
## `d0af9fff0b0dd6250028b7eec1620959`
`Mr. KIND — 14 September 2010`

---


Mr. KIND. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Logistics 
Health Incorporated for receiving the 2010 Secretary of Defense 
Employer Support Freedom Award. Logistics Health, based in La Crosse, 
Wisconsin, joined 14 other employers across the country in being 
recognized for their outstanding support of employees who serve in the 
Guard and the Reserves.

For many years, our Guard and Reserve forces were seen as a ''force 
of last resort,'' but recent conflicts have demonstrated just how vital 
the Guard and Reserves are on a day-to-day basis. In fact, since 2001, 
more than 775,000 members of the Guard and the Reserves have been 
activated for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. These 
families have gone through enormous sacrifice to serve their country 
and too many have given the ultimate sacrifice. We as a nation will be 
forever grateful to them for their contributions.

As an employer, Logistics Health has gone above and beyond the call 
of duty in assuring our Guard and Reserve servicemembers that they 
don't have to worry about their jobs back home. Logistics Health 
ensures that Guard and Reserve servicemembers won't lose their 
seniority, salary, and benefits while they are serving their country.

Logistics Health also regularly sends care packages, letters, and 
emails to its servicemember employees, sponsors community events and 
fundraisers for care package drives for the military as a whole. 
Logistics Health has contributed $120,000 to military support 
organizations and fundraisers.

For its patriotic commitment to the Guard and the Reserves, earlier 
this year Logistics Health won Wisconsin's ''Above and Beyond'' award 
and received the state's ''Pro Patria'' award.

Employers across the nation should take a close look at the good work 
Logistics Health and others are doing in providing members of the Guard 
and the Reserves with the flexibility they need when they leave to 
serve their country and for when they come back ready to resume 
civilian life.
