---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d0c9ebd242de16d6bbf40c86a5e9d3bc`
`Mr. SCHIFF â€” 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, it has been nearly 4 years since President 
Bush ordered American military forces into Iraq with the intention of 
toppling the government of Saddam Hussein. Now, after more than 3,100 
American troops have been lost and this Nation has spent in excess of 
$365 billion, we find ourselves at a crossroads. Do we endorse the 
President's decision to escalate the conflict, or do we, as a coequal 
branch of government, exercise our prerogative to force a change in 
course?

In October of 2002 I voted for the resolution authorizing the use of 
military force in Iraq based on three assumptions: First, that the 
intelligence community correctly assessed that Iraq had active 
stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons and was pursuing a 
nuclear bomb; second, that President Bush would exhaust all diplomatic 
efforts to resolve the international community's standoff with Iraq 
over its weapons programs; and, third, that if the President determined 
that a resort to force was necessary the prosecution of the war and its 
aftermath would be competently managed by the President and his 
administration.

Each of these assumptions proved to be wrong. Iraq had no weapons of 
mass destruction and no nuclear program; President Bush did not exhaust 
all diplomatic efforts; and perhaps most tragically, his administration 
made terrible, costly and repeated blunders in its conduct of the war.

I have been to Iraq three times to visit our troops and to thank them 
for their service and their sacrifice. I have met the families of five 
soldiers and marines from my district who have been lost in Iraq. I 
have visited with our wounded here and overseas.

Words cannot convey the admiration that I have for the magnificent 
job that these men and women, many of them still in their late teens 
and early twenties, are doing on our behalf in Iraq. Whatever failings 
there have been in the prosecution of this war by the administration, 
our troops have performed magnificently in wretched conditions and 
against an often unseen enemy that has targeted U.S. military and Iraqi 
citizens without discrimination.

We must and we will continue to ensure that they have the resources 
they need to do their jobs and to come home safely, and once they are 
home, we will provide them with the care and benefits that they have 
paid for in blood.

Unlike some of my friends in the minority, I have never construed 
support for the troops to require a blind, unquestioning and slavish 
devotion to the Executive, even when the Executive is wrong, even when 
its policies will not achieve the desired result, and even when those 
very policies place our troops unnecessarily and unproductively at 
greater risk. On the contrary, on the contrary, an engaged Congress is 
essential to meaningful support for the troops.

On many occasions here on the House floor, in committee and in 
meetings with senior officials, I have pressed for accountability, 
oversight and a more vigorous commitment to force protection. In 
October 2003, I voted against the $87 billion Iraq supplemental because 
I believed that it shortchanged security for our troops and allocated 
too much for no-bid contracts.

Now, more than 3 years later, our reconstruction efforts in Iraq are 
a disaster and a national disgrace. Too many of our troops still ride 
into battle in vehicles that are not properly protected against IEDs 
and other weapons.

Last June I voted against the administration's ''stay the course'' 
resolution that sought to conflate the war in Iraq with the entire 
struggle against al Qaeda, even as it failed to acknowledge that our 
strategy to stabilize the country was not working and that its country 
was slipping into civil war.

Now, against the advice of Congress, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, 
most military experts and the American people, President Bush has 
determined that victory in Iraq can be achieved by deploying 21,000 
additional combat troops to Baghdad and its environs.

Regrettably, I cannot see how this escalation can be successful. 
Instead, I believe it will further the cycle of dependency that has 
allowed Iraq's Shiite dominated government to avoid making compromises 
with Sunnis and to avoid building capable security forces. It will 
increase the strain on our military at a time when the Army and Marines 
are already stretched to the breaking point. And, most of all, it will 
deepen our military commitment to Iraq at a time when there is a 
national consensus that we should be taking steps to reduce our combat 
role and reinvigorate the diplomatic process.

The administration and the minority charge that those who do not 
support the escalation have no plan and that this is the only possible 
path to success. I disagree. The Iraq Study Group laid out a strategy 
that centered around a reduced American combat presence in Iraq, 
increased efforts to train Iraqi forces, increased pressures on the 
Iraqis to make compromises and a regional conference to hammer out a 
common approach to Iraq.

This resolution is a clear message to the President that his approach 
has lost the confidence of this House and we need a change of 
direction. I hope he chooses to take our counsel. But he should be 
aware that the days of a rubber-stamp Congress are over, and we are 
willing to take other steps to insist on charting a new course in Iraq.