---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `d0cee486cd087c38ad50a841ce945ece`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today to honor Army 1LT 
Jacob N. Fritz of Verdon, NE.

Lieutenant Fritz graduated from Dawson-Verdon High School in 2000. 
His peers and teachers recognized him as a natural leader. He was 
active in every extracurricular activity his school offered: speech, 
drama, basketball, football, track, and band. He organized drug-free 
parties and dances.

After high school, Lieutenant Fritz followed his dream of serving in 
the Armed Forces by enrolling in the Military Academy at West Point, 
graduating in 2005. His younger brother, Daniel, followed in his 
footsteps and is currently a third-year cadet at West Point.

Lieutenant Fritz had been serving in support of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom, assigned to A Battery, 2nd Battalion, 377th Parachute Field 
Artillery Regiment, 25th Infantry Division, based in Fort Richardson, 
AK. On Saturday, January 20, 2007, Lieutenant Fritz passed away when 
his dismounted patrol received indirect fire followed by small arms 
fire in Karbala, Iraq. He was 25 years old.

1LT Jacob Fritz is survived by his parents, Lyle and Noala Fritz of 
Verdon, NE, and his two younger brothers, Daniel and Ethan. I offer my 
sincere condolences to the family and friends of Lieutenant Fritz. He 
made the ultimate and most courageous sacrifice for our Nation. I join 
all Americans in grieving the loss of this remarkable young man and 
know that Lieutenant Fritz's passion for serving, his leadership, and 
his selflessness will remain a source of inspiration for us all.












 Sergeant Major Marilyn Gabbard
