---
---

# TIME FOR A CHANGE
## `d0e3486d6761a80da7e8d6334d1117f2`
`Mr. CARDIN — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, on November 7, the voters in Maryland and 
all around the Nation voted for change. Ten new Senators were elected 
to this body, six defeating incumbents.

After serving the people of Maryland for 20 years in the House of 
Representatives, I am honored that they have sent me here, to the other 
side of the Capitol, where I will continue to fight on their behalf.

The voters in Maryland and across the Nation sent a clear message on 
November 7: It's time for a change.

Our constituents want things done differently in Washington. They 
want their interests put before the special interests.

Therefore, it is appropriate that the Senate's first order of 
business is ethics legislation that will bring greater transparency and 
fairness to the political process in Washington and help restore the 
American people's confidence in their Government.

The American people also called for a reordering of our priorities. 
They want Congress to respond to the needs of families fighting for the 
American dream.

They want their children to have a better chance at that dream, and 
they know that achieving it is impossible without stronger communities, 
access to quality health care, and better educational opportunities. 
They want to raise their families in an energy-independent Nation with 
cleaner air and water. They want a country that respects the rights of 
all, and that celebrates and embraces our diversity.

But the loudest cry in November was the call for a change in our 
policies in Iraq. Americans overwhelmingly want to see our troops begin 
to come home and they don't want to see thousands of additional troops 
go to Iraq.

Iraq is a country today torn by civil war. Victory in Iraq will not 
be achieved with our military might. It will come only from 
successfully aiding Iraq in establishing a government that protects the 
rights and enjoys the confidence of all its people. It must be a 
government that respects both human rights and democratic principles. 
The efforts of U.S. soldiers, no matter how heroic, cannot accomplish 
these objectives for the Iraqis.

For 4 years, our soldiers have helped the Iraqis in ousting Saddam 
Hussein, providing security to the country and advising and training 
Iraqi security forces.

Our soldiers have performed their responsibility with bravery and 
devotion to their country. We honor their service. More than 3,000 
soldiers have made the ultimate sacrifice and many more have suffered 
life-changing injuries.

It is well past time for a change in strategy in Iraq. The 
circumstances on the ground are worsening. Last June, I laid out a plan 
for success in Iraq. It started with reducing our combat troop levels 
and having the Iraqis take greater responsibility for the defense of 
their own country. It stressed the need for diplomatic and political 
solutions--with the international community engaged in negotiating a 
cease fire with the warring militias.

I called on greater support from our allies in helping us to train 
the Iraqi security forces.

And last June, I spoke about the need for a negotiated government in 
Iraq that would represent all of its ethnic people--Sunnis, Shia and 
Kurds.

Last month, the Iraq Study Group came forward with similar 
recommendations--highlighting the need for the President to start 
drawing down troops. Many military experts agree, including some of our 
generals on the ground.

As GEN George Casey recently said:




 It's always been my view that a heavy and sustained 


 American military presence was not going to solve the 


 problems in Iraq over the long term.


On November 7, the American people told us that they too agree that 
it's time for a change in Iraq.

So when President Bush said several weeks ago that he was 
reevaluating the


situation in Iraq and would announce a new policy shortly after the new 
year, there was great hope that the President, Congress and the 
American people could come together with an effective new policy to 
help the people in Iraq and advance U.S. interests.

Unfortunately, that was not the case. President Bush has decided to 
ignore the advice of the Iraq Study Group, many of his own military 
officials and the American people in making his decision to send 20,000 
additional American troops to Iraq.

The President's announcement last night represents more of the same, 
more ''staying the course,'' just now with more American troops in 
harm's way. An escalation of U.S. troops in Iraq is counterproductive.

Former Secretary of State Collin Powell recently said:




 I am not persuaded that another surge of troops into 


 Baghdad for purposes of suppressing this communitarian 


 violence, this civil war.


We need a surge in U.S. troops coming home, not a surge in those 
going to war. We need a surge in diplomatic and political efforts to 
end the civil war. We need a surge in the urgency of the U.S. 
engagement of the international community to deal with its regional 
politics and problems in the Middle East.

This Congress has a responsibility to our citizens to evaluate a 
clear record of the facts in Iraq.

The hearings taking place in the Armed Services and Foreign Relations 
Committees are vital. But our responsibility goes well beyond the 
hearings. Individually and collectively, we must act with our voices 
and our votes, speaking out vigorously and taking action against the 
continued mismanagement of this war.

The American people deserve an opportunity to hear from military 
experts and administration officials on the consequences of a surge in 
troops in Iraq. Congress has a responsibility to scrutinize this plan 
and offer its own recommendations.

In October 2002, in the other body of Congress, I voted against 
giving the President the right to use force in Iraq. I am proud of that 
vote. As a Senator, I have the responsibility to acknowledge where we 
are today and take action that is, in my view, in the best interest of 
Maryland and the Nation.

I want the U.S. to succeed in Iraq and in the Middle East. I want our 
soldiers to return home with the honor that they deserve. I want to 
work with my colleagues to strengthen our military and to make sure 
that promises made to our veterans are promises kept.

We can achieve these objectives, but they would be more achievable if 
the President would act on the overwhelming evidence and work with this 
Congress to truly set a new direction in Iraq. We must begin by 
starting to bring our troops home, not by escalating troop levels. We 
need to engage and energize the international community, including our 
traditional allies as well as other countries in the Middle East. Our 
primary focus must be extensive political and diplomatic negotiations 
directed toward the twin goals of a cease-fire and a lasting and stable 
Iraqi Government. Let that be our mission.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.