# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `d0e4ed20d53c3a8ba9064bf3e8a5e230`
`Mr. LEVIN — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. LEVIN. The Senate will soon vote on the nomination of GEN David 
Petraeus, who is once again stepping forward to render invaluable 
service to our Nation, as he has so often in the past. Certainly the 
events that bring General Petraeus to this moment were unforeseen. But 
we can be certain that when confirmed, he will bring highly experienced 
leadership and a profound understanding of the President's strategy in 
Afghanistan which he helped shape as Commander of the U.S. Central 
Command.

General Petraeus confirmed yesterday before the Armed Services 
Committee that he fully supports the President's strategy. That 
strategy includes a surge of U.S. combat troops who will be in place 
later this year.

That strategy includes a counterinsurgency campaign focused on 
securing the safety of Afghanistan's population and pursuing the 
insurgents who threaten that safety. The President's strategy, which 
General Petraeus supports, includes the setting of a July 2011 date to 
begin reductions of U.S. combat troops as a way of focusing the 
attention of the Afghan Government and military on preparing Afghan 
forces to take greater responsibility for the security of their own 
people. I have long believed that focusing on building the capacity of 
the Afghan security forces to secure their nation's future is


critical to the success of our mission in Afghanistan. General Petraeus 
agrees. He told our committee yesterday:




 We want Afghan ownership of Afghan problems, whether it's 


 security problems, political problems, economic problems, you 


 name it.


That is what the Afghans want as well. That is what we were told. A 
number of us were there a year ago in Afghanistan when 100 or so elders 
gathered at a shura in southern Afghanistan. When we asked them what 
they wanted the United States to do, they told us we should train and 
equip the Afghan Army to provide for their country's security and then 
depart. And the 1,600 delegates to Afghanistan's Consultative Peace 
Jirga, which occurred at the beginning of June, adopted a resolution 
calling on the international community to ''expedite'' the training and 
equipping of the Afghan security forces so they can gain the capacity 
''to provide security for their own country and people.''

The Afghan Army fields about 120,000 troops, including 70,000 combat 
troops. They should, wherever possible, be leading the fight against 
the insurgents. The Afghan Army enjoys the support of the Afghan 
people. That means that Afghan troops leading the fight would be the 
Taliban's worst nightmare. It would demonstrate that insurgent 
propaganda, which portrays us as out for domination and for our own 
ends, is a lie. If the Afghan people are to see this as their fight, it 
should be a fight led by their own soldiers with our support and not 
the other way around.

I wish to read an exchange from yesterday's hearing on this issue. I 
asked General Petraeus the following question:




 The urgent increase in the size and capability of the 


 Afghan army and having Afghan forces leading operations more 


 and more is bad news for the Taliban. Now, I've described 


 that as the Taliban's worst nightmare, because their 


 propaganda that they are fighting against foreign forces who 


 want to control Afghanistan will ring more and more hollow 


 with the Afghan population [if] the Afghan army, which has 


 the support of the Afghan people, [is] leading the effort to 


 defeat the insurgents.


Then I asked General Petraeus: Is that something you would generally 
agree with? His answer was that he agreed with that statement.

I am also encouraged that General Petraeus committed at our hearing 
to a review of deployments by the Afghan Army to see how more Afghan 
troops might be deployed to the south where operations are the most 
intense and to ensure that Afghan leaders are leading operations in the 
south wherever possible.

General Petraeus also reiterated to the committee his support for the 
July 2011 date to begin reductions of U.S. combat troops. As he put it:




 I saw [setting that date] most importantly as the message 


 of urgency to complement the message of enormous additional 


 commitment.


As the Presiding Officer well knows because he is an esteemed member 
of our committee, General Petraeus literally wrote the book on 
counterinsurgency. He led the effort to write our military's manual on 
counterinsurgency. As commander of U.S. forces in Iraq and the U.S. 
Central Command, he has served his country with great distinction at a 
time of great need. We are fortunate that once again he has answered 
his Nation's call, and we are grateful for the sacrifices he, his wife 
Holly, and his family are willing to once again accept.

I strongly support his nomination. His nomination was unanimously 
supported by the Armed Services Committee yesterday. I hope our 
colleagues will give General Petraeus an overwhelming vote of support.

I yield the floor.