---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `d0eb9ef21b9e9f9b391eb05d2429b1aa`
`Mr. ORTIZ — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. ORTIZ. Mr. Speaker, the way to support the troops is to give them 
what they need on the battlefield, and what they need when they return 
home from their service to reset--or rest and fix the force for future 
missions.

This government must be accountable to our troops and their families, 
the only people actually carrying the burden for these wars today . . . 
along with our children, for whom we are leaving the cost.

Today's bill provides much needed money for troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan . . . policy that requires accountability from the 
Administration . . . and funding to heal the readiness of our troops.

It is not the best bill we could get, but you never have a perfect 
bill.

But the predicament we are in now demands we support this bill.

We have so many emergencies on our doorstep now . . . mostly because 
the last Congress refused to see the negative impact operations in Iraq 
had on our military readiness, leaving us vulnerable as a nation . . . 
and leaving important national business undone.

Support for the troops is entirely about giving them what they need 
to fight the battles we've committed them to fight . . . and this 
legislation does just, with one eye on the future . . . something 
previous Congresses failed to do.

I wish the Congress would have put more energy into readiness 
oversight over the past 5 years to prevent the current situation . . . 
but all we can do today is go forward.

I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting our troops--and this 
funding for them.

Today's bill addresses many of these readiness concerns, with 
additions above the President's request to support our troops, 
including:

$2 billion more to address the current readiness crisis of our 
stateside troops, including ensuring that they are better equipped and 
trained;

$1.1 billion more for military housing allowances;

$3 billion for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles for 
troops in Iraq ($1.2 billion above the President's request);

$1.6 billion for body armor;

$9.7 billion to train and equip Afghan and Iraqi security forces.

It also fully funds the BRAC accounts so communities like the Coastal 
Bend of Texas--and others adversely affected by base closure 
decisions--can plan appropriately for that eventuality.

So many Americans are coming home alive--yet traumatized in their 
minds or bodies--to an extent we have never seen before. The scandalous 
treatment of heroes at Walter Reed--and the fact that it took a 
newspaper story to change it--is testament to the gigantic challenges 
facing military and veterans' health care.

The Supplemental includes funding for new initiatives to enhance 
medical services for active duty forces and mobilized personnel, and 
their family members (appropriating $2.1 billion more than the 
President requested.) These initiatives include:

$900 million for Traumatic Brain Injury care and research and PTSD 
treatment and research;

$20 million for facility improvement at Walter Reed.

The bill includes $1.8 billion over the President's request to 
address the health care needs of veterans returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan and the backlog in maintaining VA health care facilities, 
including:

$30 million for at least one new Level I polytrauma center;

$9.4 million in operations costs for new polytrauma residential 
transitional rehab programs;

$10 million for additional transition caseworkers;

$10 million for blind rehab programs;

$100 million for enhancements to mental health services;

$20 million for substance abuse treatment;

$8 million for polytrauma clinic support teams;

$25 million for prosthetics;

$228.9 million in additional funds to treat veterans from both wars.

This bill is an excellent starting point for this new Congress to 
begin the long overdue oversight of the defense department. We are far 
ahead of the past Congresses in giving our troops the true support they 
need--with appropriate funding and acknowledgment of the strain and 
burden of Iraq.

While the ideal situation for Congress is for the authorizing 
committee to determine policy, that's coming very soon. I am grateful 
to Chairman Murtha for the extraordinary lengths we've gone to in this 
bill to protect our soldiers by certifying their readiness, protecting 
the military readiness of the United States.

While this bill is not perfect, it is an extraordinary first step.

As the Readiness Subcommittee Chair, let me offer the House some 
perspective on the current state of our readiness:

In the National Intelligence Estimate declassified on Feb. 2, the 
U.S. intelligence services note that--absent a remarkable reversal of 
fortunes in Iraq--they find that ''the overall security situation will 
continue to deteriorate at rates comparable to the latter part of 
2006.'' Further, the NIE determines: ''even if the violence is 
diminished . . . Iraqi leaders will be


hard pressed to achieve sustained political reconciliation in the time 
frame of this estimate''--which is 12-18 months.

The NIE goes on to say that if the U.S. were to leave Iraq, a 
greater, wider civil war would erupt, saying: ''the ISF [Iraqi Security 
Forces] would be unlikely to survive as a non-sectarian national 
institution, and neighboring countries might intervene openly in the 
conflict.''

Now, common sense tells me that will be the case whenever we leave . 
. . today, manana, this summer, next year . . . or 50 years from now. 
Whenever we leave Iraq, the unclassified intelligence estimate guides 
us on what we can expect. Our choice is in how long we remain . . . and 
how many more brave and patriotic volunteers--who carry the battle for 
this Nation--are lost in Iraq.

Today we have a chance to begin that change--in the purest way we can 
support the troops . . . men and women, and their families, who are 
alone in carrying the burden for the Iraq war.

The readiness of our next deployers--our ability to be prepared for 
current and future threats--is diminished due to the war in Iraq. We've 
worn out our force and their equipment, and that has huge implications 
for our ability to handle the threats to come.

The GAO has looked at this . . . and come away saying the Army itself 
''cannot determine the extent to which the existing inventory reflects 
what the Army needs'' . . . and GAO notes that: ''until these strategic 
and management challenges are addressed, the Army will face uncertain 
risks should new conflicts occur.''

GAO also reports that all services ''have drawn heavily from their 
prepositioned stocks to support [the ongoing wars]'' . . . and ''these 
sustained military operations are taking a toll on the condition and 
readiness of military equipment and the Army and Marine Corps face a 
number of long-term challenges that will affect the timing and cost of 
equipment repair and replacement.''

GAO concludes: ''the Army's decisions today have profound future 
implications for the entire department and potentially affect our 
ability to respond to a conflict.''

Last year, Congress established a Commission on the National Guard 
and Reserves, which has also reported back to us. They tell us point 
blank: ''DoD's failure to appropriately consider National Guard needs 
and funding requirements has produced a National Guard that is not 
fully ready to meet current and emerging missions.''

The Commission says more pointedly: ''The lack of sufficient and 
ready equipment is a problem common to active and reserve components.

In particular, the equipment readiness of the Army National Guard is 
unacceptable and has reduced the capability of the U.S. to respond to 
current and additional major contingencies, foreign and domestic.''

Army Chief of Staff Schoomaker told the Commission: despite the 
readiness of troops overseas, ''88 percent of the forces that are back 
here in the U.S. are very poorly equipped today in the Army National 
Guard.''

The Commission also noted that state governors ''have become 
increasingly concerned about whether their National Guard forces would 
be available to respond to emergencies here at home.''