---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `d0fc5b3c2041690c861e9c3e48e2bcf5`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 10 May 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. I thank the gentleman for yielding to me, and I thank 
him for his leadership on this important amendment.

After the Cold War, the use of contractors began to grow, and their 
use exploded after September 11, 2001. Contractors now do more than 
just build military equipment and satellites. They also provide 
security, collect and analyze intelligence, provide technical support, 
and even perform planning and management tasks.

Mr. Price's amendment requires a review of what contractors are doing 
and, importantly, whether contractors are performing inherently 
governmental functions. There are some activities so sensitive that, if 
and when they are done, we must determine whether or not it is 
appropriate to contract these activities out.

In some cases, U.S. contractors' actions have caused great 
controversy. The Lincoln Group's contract to plant positive news 
stories in Iraq raised questions about manipulation of the Iraqi media. 
Dave Passaro, a CIA contractor was convicted of four counts of 
assaulting an Afghan detainee who later died. Contractors were 
implicated in the detainee abuse cases at Abu Ghraib.

These activities are controversial enough on their own, and if the 
U.S. engages in them, we should do so while accepting full 
responsibility and not hide behind contractors.

The Price-Schakowsky amendment would ask the DNI to review whether it 
is appropriate for contractors to engage in intelligence collection, 
analysis, covert actions, interrogations, detentions, rendition or 
electronic surveillance.

This is an important amendment, and I urge its adoption.