---
---

# RECOGNIZING KING'S HILL INN
## `d0feb2a94a12f5e7703f31da7af388c2`
`Ms. SNOWE — 4 March 2010`

---

 Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, today I wish to honor a Maine small 
business that has patriotically devoted itself to giving members of our 
Nation's military a relaxing surprise by providing Maine soldiers home 
from the warfront with a comforting night's stay in the picturesque 
western Maine town of Paris. Opened by Janice and Glenn Davis in 1999, 
the King's Hill Inn is a beautiful Victorian inn surrounded by scenic 
mountains and lakes in historic and peaceful Oxford County. And for 
Maine soldiers who have just returned from a theater of war, the King's 
Hill Inn simply promises ''. . . the best, quietest night's sleep with 
their loved one, far from the cold battlefield.''

This historic inn got its start in 1998 when Janice and Glenn Davis 
bought and restored the farm property, which was the 1811 birthplace of 
Horatio King, who served as Postmaster General under President James 
Buchanan. The rural town of Paris, frequently known as the home of King 
and Hannibal Hamlin, President Abraham Lincoln's first Vice President 
and a prominent Maine political figure, is also recognized for its 
panoply of natural wonders, many of which are accessible from King's 
Hill Inn. From the inn, guests can experience much of Maine's serene 
landscape which includes the beautiful Oxford Hills region, the 
exciting Saco River, as well as area mines that celebrate Maine's gem 
and mineral concentrations. The inn offers guests six stunning suites, 
each with a unique and charming setting--perfect for a weekend getaway.

To give back to our Nation's bravest men and women who have served 
overseas, the King's Hill Inn offers a free overnight stay with a 
complimentary breakfast for each Maine soldier returning from the 
warfront and his or her significant other. In addition, the Davises 
offer a 28-percent discount to ''all military personnel stationed 
around the world'' in honor of their 28-year-old son CAPT Aaron Davis, 
a member of the U.S. Air Force who has served in Afghanistan. The 
Davises also work with various local business owners wishing to make 
donations of their own to the soldiers spending the night at the King's 
Hill Inn, including restaurants offering a free dinner and florists 
providing beautiful floral arrangements.

After experiencing firsthand how difficult it was to part with her 
son when he was leaving to serve a year in the war in Afghanistan, 
Janice realized how such departures would be even more heartbreaking 
for the spouses of active-duty military personnel. Her objective in 
offering this magnanimous promotion is to provide soldiers with ''. . . 
that escape from the war front and that reunification with their spouse 
or loved one. My goal is that it will start a grassroots effort right 
here in Western Maine that will spread all the way to California, where 
my son is.''

The King's Hill Inn has truly offered a noble gift to our servicemen 
and women who have sacrificed so much for


the people of our great Nation. I am hopeful that this gracious 
altruism will be mirrored in the actions of other businesses, small and 
large, wishing to make a positive difference for some of the most 
deserving members of our communities. I offer my sincerest thanks to 
the the Davises for their compassionate and philanthropic support of 
our military personnel and offer my best wishes for the future success 
of King's Hill Inn.
