# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `d10ec7fc2cbf90b6a1988157e8bda282`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Madam Speaker, I read a news article in which Defense 
Secretary Robert Gates, during a visit to Afghanistan just recently, 
cautioned against overoptimism about how the military campaign is going 
over there. Well, no worries there, Mr. Secretary. I can't muster 
optimism for a war that's been going on for 8/1/2/ years and still 
hasn't achieved its objectives, nor has it defeated the enemy. In fact, 
it's hard to be optimistic now that we have lost more than 1,000 brave 
Americans in Afghanistan, nearly one-third of them since this last 
summer.

Frankly, Mr. Speaker, I am downright pessimistic about the government 
we are propping up in Afghanistan, which seems to reach a new low for 
corruption and incompetence every single day. That is why I 
enthusiastically support the resolution offered by my friend, the 
gentleman from Ohio, to bring our troops home from Afghanistan by the 
end of the year at the latest. The fact is that our military presence 
is what is fueling the very insurgency we are trying to defeat. You 
would think we would have learned a lesson of history by now, actually. 
The Afghan people have always resisted occupation, whether it was Great 
Britain in the 19th century or the Soviet Union just 30 years ago.

Madam Speaker, ending the war does not mean ending American support. 
It would be completely irresponsible of us to wash our hands of 
Afghanistan. There is too much humanitarian work to be done there. I 
propose that we replace our military surge with a civilian surge as 
part of a new smart security plan. We can protect America, fight 
terrorism, and stabilize Afghanistan with more compassion and good will 
than we can with rockets and guns. So let's bring the troops home. 
Let's replace them with more development workers, democracy promotion 
specialists, and economic development experts.

It costs, as we've all learned, a staggering $1 million to deploy a 
single soldier to Afghanistan for 1 year. Smart security would not only 
be more effective and more peaceful, it would be fiscally responsible 
to do that in the first place. The money we are currently spending in 
Afghanistan desperately needs to be invested in our struggling families 
right here at home.

Soon, Madam Speaker, the Congressional Progressive Caucus, which I 
co-Chair with Congressman Raul Grijalva, will release its 2011 budget 
alternative. It will call for redirecting billions of dollars in 
military spending into domestic programs that have been overlooked for 
far too long right here at home, like school construction, affordable 
housing, transportation and infrastructure, job training, health care, 
on and on. It is nothing short of appalling that during a crippling 
recession we here in the United States are nickel and diming the 
American people over things like unemployment benefits while the 
Pentagon gets a blank check to continue a failed war.

Secretary Gates warns of dark days ahead. Well, I appreciate his 
refusal to be a Pollyanna about Afghanistan. The fact is that there 
have been more than 3,000 dark days in Afghanistan already and the 
patience of the American people is wearing thin.

I encourage my colleagues to support H.Con.Res 238, bring the troops 
home, bring them home safely, and end the dark days once and for all.