---
---

# REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE
## `d1149a20094be03370526781a64ac416`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Nebraska, a Mr. Smith 
who has come to Washington to stand up for middle-American values, and 
to hold the line on the spending in the Budget Committee, hold the line 
on the constitutional issues with the micromanagement that is coming 
out of here with this supplemental spending bill, this emergency 
supplemental spending bill.

And I will make no such pledge that it isn't my job to challenge the 
people with whom I disagree with. In fact, I believe it is my job to do 
that, and I intend to step up every time and draw those bright lines 
when I think it is imperative that those bright lines be drawn.

So here we are with this bill on the floor being debated several 
hours today, with 1 or 2 hours left in the debate for tomorrow. And 
maybe it will go to final passage, maybe the votes won't be there, 
maybe the vote will get pulled down just like D.C. voting was pulled 
down today. They take it all the way through the process, and, at the 
time it is supposed to go up on the board, realize, we lost the debate, 
so now we can't allow a vote. That is exactly what happened here in the 
House of Representatives today. The people's voice wasn't heard.

We have got a little debate to go tomorrow. People are going to sleep 
on this tonight, and they are going to think about the President asking 
for $99 billion to provide for Afghanistan and Iraq, the surge in Iraq, 
the strategy that was part of the Iraq Study Group's recommendation, 
the bipartisan Iraq Study Group's recommendation, and the effort to 
succeed in Iraq.

And it is interesting that the President has retooled our approach 
here. We have a new Secretary of Defense, Secretary Gates; we have a 
new Secretary, at least an Acting Secretary of the Army, Mr. Geren; and 
we have a new Commander at Walter Reed Hospital, we have a new 
Commander of CENTCOM. And this is a new plan, a new plan put together 
by the individual who wrote the book on counterterrorism and the most 
successful general that I believe that we have seen come out of the 
Iraq theater, and that is General David Petraeus, I believe the most 
impressive military individual I have met in my time here, in fact in 
my life. And his strategy is part of the same strategy that the Iraq 
Study Group put out. And having written the book on counterterrorism 
and being endorsed without opposition for his confirmation for a fourth 
star by the United States Senate, and within a week the United States 
Senate is back trying to jerk the rug out from underneath his plan, 
trying to oppose the surge in Iraq and trying to oppose the 21,500 
extra troops that go in there. And now we are seeing a little wavering, 
a little quavering, and some people going a little wobbly because they 
are starting to see the positive signs in the effort in Baghdad.

Now, the situation there is kind of interesting, Mr. Speaker. Baghdad 
and 30 miles around outside of Baghdad is where 80 percent of the 
violence in Iraq is taking place. And it occurred to me, it was 
actually back in December, I was reflecting back upon the 101st 
Airborne 62 years earlier had been surrounded at Bastogne during the 
Battle of the Bulge in World War II. Bastogne, a city that had seven 
roads leading to it and through it, was the centerpiece of the 
transportation link. It was the key to success or failure in the Battle 
of the Bulge, and maybe it was the key to victory or defeat for either 
side in World War II, at least in the European theater.


And so, as the 101st Airborne was surrounded at Bastogne, mercilessly 
being shelled by the Germans, and the Germans demanded the surrender of 
the 101st, General McCollum's response is famous, and it should echo 
throughout all of American history when he said in his response to the 
Germans, ''Nuts.'' We understood what that meant, being Americans. The 
Germans didn't. They had to go get their linguists to try to understand 
what it meant, and they still, I don't think, have figured out to this 
day. Well, that was in one word, four letters, the American spirit of 
defiance, the American spirit of perseverance.

And there they were surrounded at Bastogne, hopelessly surrounded, 
and their response was, ''Nuts.'' We are hanging on and we are going to 
defend Bastogne. And shortly thereafter we had General Patton and the 
3rd Army that came and relieved the 101st Airborne. They argue to this 
day that they didn't need the help of the 3rd Army, that they had the 
Germans right where they wanted them.

That was the American spirit 62 years ago, Mr. Speaker, and today 80 
percent of the violence is within Baghdad or 30 miles from Baghdad. 
Baghdad is essentially surrounded; it is not a stronghold. We have 
always gone wherever we wanted to go in Baghdad, or any other city in 
Iraq for that matter, even though the press calls it a stronghold. We 
went wherever we wanted to go, and we go more now than we did before. 
Baghdad is significantly pacified, but Baghdad was surrounded by peace, 
a relative peace at least, and the violence was in there.

Now, if we had pulled out, or if sometime in the future this side of 
the aisle is successful in shutting off the resources so that our 
military can't succeed in their mission, and we pull out of there, I 
believe history will judge us nuts if we do such a thing, Mr. Speaker.

There is too much at stake. There is no discussion on this side of 
the aisle here about the consequences for pulling out. No one has a 
plan for victory. No one over there will utter the ''V'' word, the 
victory word. No one will define it. They are just a group of 
''defeatocrats'' that can't get it out of their head that America's 
destiny is worth more than marking political points against your 
opposition.

So we sit here with more than 3,000 lives sacrificed for the freedom 
of the Iraqi people and the destiny of the world, because if we don't 
defeat this enemy here in Iraq, as Prime Minister Maliki said right 
here behind where I am standing right now, he said, ''If the terrorists 
can't be defeated in Iraq, they can't be defeated anywhere.''

Now, if Mr. Murtha gets his way and troops are deployed out of Iraq, 
the bill doesn't say where, but he has said where: Okinawa. Okinawa. 
Over the horizon is Okinawa, and we can put our troops over there, and 
then we can fly them wherever we need them whenever we need them. I 
would say we might as well take them right to Afghanistan. And I am 
going to explain the reason for that, Mr. Speaker.



First, this is a poster of Muqtada al-Sadr. He is quite an 
interesting character. He started out in this conflict as a militia 
general, and he wasn't doing very well down south of Baghdad a couple 
of years ago when he suffered huge, huge casualties in the Madhi 
militia. In fact, the casualties were so heavy that he decided to 
become a politician instead of a general, and so he entered into and 
built a little coalition and picked up 30 seats in the Iraqi 
Parliament. He also took over the security on the civilian side of 
Baghdad International Airport, along with one portion of the Shia 
region of Baghdad and some of the area to the south. Muqtada al-Sadr, 
not a friend of the United States, an individual who has empowered 
himself by attacking the United States and denigrating the United 
States and inspiring his followers the same way, and this is how he did 
it.

And I was sitting in Kuwait City, the date is right here, June 11, 
2004, waiting to go into Iraq the next day, and I was watching al-
Jazeera TV, Mr. Speaker. Now, Muqtada al-Sadr came on, this burly face, 
and he was speaking in Arabic, so I was looking at the crawler 
underneath in English, and it read just like this: ''If we keep 
attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way they left 
Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left 
Mogadishu.'' That was Muqtada al-Sadr, June 11, 2004. Al-Jazeera TV. I 
attest to that; I was there, I wrote it down; I saw it; I heard it. And 
that is the statement that he made.

Now, I went back and picked up the book written by General Vo Nguen 
Giap, and it is, ''How We Won the War.'' And he is writing about the 
Vietnam war, how they won the war. And very early in the book he takes 
the position that because the United States did not win a clear victory 
in Korea, they understood that we would maybe not have the will to win 
a clear victory in Vietnam. So their strategy from the beginning was to 
fight the war in such a way that it would break down and defeat 
American public opinion and encourage the antiwar activists all across 
this country and around the world. That was a part of their calculated 
strategy that is in the book, ''How We Won the War'' by General Giap.

Now, it hadn't occurred to me that because we settled for a truce at 
the 38th parallel in Korea at the place, the same line as the beginning 
of the war was the end of the war. But because we didn't push the 
Communists all the way out of North Korea and draw a new line, they 
believe that we could be defeated because we didn't demonstrate the 
will to succeed.

Carl Von Clausewitz wrote the treatise on war, and the name of the 
book is, ''On War.'' And he states in there, ''The object of war is to 
destroy the enemy's will and ability to conduct war.'' To destroy the 
enemy's will and ability, Mr. Speaker. And I believe Clausewitz lists 
will ahead of ability because it is more important here. Your will to 
succeed, your will to prevail is more important than your ability to 
conduct war.

In other words, if you are fighting an enemy, and you destroy their 
airplanes and their navy and their tanks and their guns and their 
ammunition, and they still have the will to fight you, they will come 
at you with IEDs or rocks or fists or boots or clubs, because they 
still have the will to take you on.

But here in this Congress, there have been dozens, there are scores, 
there, in fact, may be more than 100, there may be more than 200 that 
don't understand that when they stand here on this floor and they speak 
against our military's mission, they are encouraging people like 
Muqtada al-Sadr when he is inspiring his people by saying, ''All we 
have to do is keep attacking Americans, and they will pull out of Iraq 
the same way they did Vietnam, Lebanon and Mogadishu.''



And if we should do that, Mr. Speaker, I can show you the next poster 
you will see on this floor, the next quote that will show up in the 
news media.

This is another notorious individual: Osama bin Laden. Where is he? 
We are looking diligently for him. One day we will find him.

But the lesson from Muktadr al-Sadr, the lesson that needs to be 
understood by the Defeatocrats is that if we pull out of Iraq, we don't 
win there. You have al Qaeda taking over. You have Iran coming in and 
taking over 70 to 80 percent of the Iraqi oil. You have Iran with their 
hand on the valve that could shut off at the Straits of Hormuz, 42.6 
percent of the world's export oil. Doing so let's them control the 
world economy, including that of the United States, including that of 
China, empowering Russia, empowering Iran, intimidating and controlling 
the entire Middle Eastern oil supply by Ahmadinejad. That is what is in 
store for us if we don't prevail.

And so Maktadr al-Sadr has laid it out, and he has got a clear 
vision. His vision isn't hard to figure out. General Giap has figured 
it out, just from seeing that we would settle for a truce at the 38th 
Parallel, and we have got Maktadr al-Sadr seeing that and Vietnam and 
Lebanon and Mogadishu, and several others, by the way.

But if we pull out of Iraq, our troops aren't going to be deployed to 
over the horizon, Mr. Murtha, or over to Okinawa, Mr. Murtha. They may 
get to go home for a little while and polish their boots, but they are 
going to Afghanistan, because that is the next stop for these 
terrorists that are going to keep coming at us until we defeat them or 
capitulate.

And so this will be the next quote you will see if we pull out of 
Iraq. It will be Osama bin Laden this time, and he will be saying, if 
we keep attacking Americans they will leave Afghanistan the same way 
they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they 
left Mogadishu, the same way they left Iraq. That is what is in front 
of us if we don't have the will to prevail, Mr. Speaker.

And these kinds of unconstitutional supplemental or emergency 
spending bills that tie so many strings on to the hands of the 
Commander in Chief, that if he adheres to the language that is in here, 
ties his hands so he can't win.

Now, why would you not be for victory? Why would you send money over 
there and not provide a way for the troops to win?

This bill pulls us out of Iraq. That is the goal and they have said 
so. Their goal is not victory. Their goal has been defeat for a long 
time so they can say I told you so. To put a stain on this 
administration perhaps. To try to gain political favor, perhaps. But 
whatever is their motivation, I will submit that this appropriations 
bill is unconstitutional because it is micromanagement of the duties of 
the Commander in Chief.

And so I will submit that this Constitution gives this Congress three 
responsibilities when it comes to war. The first one is to declare war. 
We haven't done that since World War II. The second one is 
constitutionally to raise and equip an Army and a Navy, and by 
implication an Air Force. The third one is to fund the war. That is it. 
No other constitutional responsibilities. Declare a war, raise a 
military, fund military. But the President is Commander in Chief 
because our founders lived through the mistakes of trying to run a war 
with a whole series of micromanagers and trying to do so by consensus 
or majority rule within the Continental Congress.

The Continental Congress tried to micromanage the war that was fought 
by the Continental Army. And they were so stung by that painful effort, 
and the only thing that preserved them was they had the will for 
victory. They carried themselves through the hardest of times, barefoot 
at Valley Forge, because they were determined that they were going to 
defeat the British and establish a new nation. And that is the legacy 
that the founders have passed along to us. And they drew bright lines 
in this Constitution because they understood you couldn't fight a war 
by committee. You couldn't fight a war if a Congress was going to 
micromanage the Commander in Chief. So they drew the line clearly, and 
there is no equivocation, and there is no historical record about the 
founders wondering about who had what responsibility when it came to 
fighting a war. No. It was the Commander in Chief. And they gave 
Congress the authority, declare a war, raise the Army and the Navy, and 
then, I said by implication, the Air Force, and fund it.

So if you don't want to support our military, and if you don't want 
to support their mission, then you ought to have enough intestinal 
fortitude to


come down here with a bill that unfunds our military and face the wrath 
of the American people and the wrath of the United States military, 
who, by the way, are 100 percent volunteers, not just to join the 
military and put on the uniform, but for the mission that they are on.

Everyone there has had an opportunity to retire from the military in 
such time since the beginning of this conflict. Yet, Mr. Speaker, they 
step forward and they re-up and they volunteer in greater numbers than 
one ever anticipated. These are brave souls that are on a mission. And 
to say to them, after they have volunteered for one or two or three or 
more deployments, well, thanks a lot for the effort, but we are not 
going to let you finish the job, we are going to drag you home.

Well, I would say to that that I could quote a colonel that I went to 
Iraq with not that long ago, and he said, and I don't know if I will 
find it so I will speak from off the cuff and this will be close. It 
won't be probably an exact quote. He said, don't save me. I volunteered 
for this mission. Don't save me. I am here because I volunteered for my 
children. I am here to fight this war so my children don't have to 
fight this war. You are not doing me any favors if you try to pull me 
out of this mission that I am committed to. And I have children at home 
that I am here to defend.

Now, I would say, also, that probably the most profound statement 
that I heard from a military person over there was a major from 
Kentucky. And he is a farmer, a father, loved his cows, worried about 
his bull, wanted to see the digital picture of his new bull, and loves 
God. And he said to me, he said, we have everything we need. So when 
you pray for us, meaning the military, pray for the American people. 
Pray they understand the threat, and pray they do not lose their 
resolve. We will not lose ours.

That is the kind of personnel we have that put their lives on the 
line for the future of freedom in the world, for the safety of the 
American people so that we can ultimately prevail in this long, long 
war against these global terrorists who believe that their path to 
salvation is in killing us.

It is not going to be easy. It is not going to be over quickly. And, 
in fact, every time we step back and show weakness, it empowers the 
enemy and we are more likely to hear this statement sooner.

But this is not over if we pull out of Iraq, as General Pelosi and 
Mr. Murtha would like to do. It is not over. They will follow us here. 
And they will be more empowered. They will have a base that is 
protected that they can operate from out of Iraq. And you hand over 
that oil money to the Iranians, they will be spending it to buy 
missiles to deliver nuclear weapons, not just to Tel Aviv, not just to 
Western Europe, but within a few short years to the United States. And 
we will face an enemy that is a lot tougher than the one we are facing 
right now.

We need to resolve this issue in the Middle East now. This is the 
time to do so. Put the cross hairs on Iran's nuclear and tell them 
cease fighting this proxy war against the United States within Iraq. 
Resolve and pacify Iraq, and turn our focus over to Afghanistan. 
Because if we don't do so, this man and his allies turn Iraq into a 
terrorist base camp, and they turn their effort to Afghanistan to try 
to drive us out of there and destroy the freedom that has been 
established there, where people voted for the first time on that soil 
in all of history.

That is what we are faced with. This is a long war. We need to step 
up to it. We need to understand that. We need to let our voluntary 
military perform their mission and stand with them, because not only do 
we stand with our military, but we stand with them in their mission. I 
do so on this side of the aisle. I challenge everyone on that side of 
the aisle to do the same.

It is intellectually inconsistent to take a position that you can 
support the troops and not their mission. And it is constitutionally 
inconsistent, in fact unconstitutional, to micromanage a war from the 
floor of Congress and tie so many strings in there that they can't be 
met, so that it is certain that if this language passes and the 
President adheres to it that there will be an end to this sort of 
victory.

And I ask the President, Mr. Speaker, to stand on this 
constitutionally. He has the authority to do intra-departmental 
transfers. If the money goes to DOD and it is directed to an aircraft 
carrier and we need armored Humvees and Strykers and bulletproof vests, 
he can mothball that aircraft carrier and put the money where it is 
needed. That is why he is Commander in Chief. That is constitutional. 
This bill is not. And I urge that all Members stand up and vote ''no'' 
on this when it comes to the floor tomorrow.
