---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `d1150ee67b202cb30f36c3a40130b854`
`Mr. BLUNT — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. BLUNT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding as this 
debate comes to an end.

The legislation we have debated here tonight was at one point 
supposed to be an emergency supplemental spending bill for our troops, 
dispatched to them with urgency, resolution, and purpose. It was 
supposed to provide money and resources for our fighting men and women 
on the frontlines so that they had the tools and equipment they needed 
to finish the task at hand.

Instead the majority turned this important funding package into an 
exercise in political theater, along the way, disregarding the 
testimony of our military commanders, the wishes of many in their own 
caucus, and basic and numerous dictates of our Constitution and our 
history.

The result has been a final conference report, though we know it 
really won't be a final conference report. It has been a conference 
report that imposes artificial deadlines, ties the hands of our 
commanders in the field, and demotes those tasked with managing an 
active military engagement to the rank of administrative assistant, 
forced to check new boxes before exercising the authority they have 
today to execute their mission.

And it would spend billions of dollars on things that should have 
been debated at another time. Some of those things have merit. Some of 
those things I agree with. Some of them I don't. But they shouldn't 
have been debated as part of this bill.

Those who attended today's briefing with General Petraeus benefited 
from a clear and sober assessment of our chances for achieving success 
in Iraq and the consequences we can expect by declaring defeat. But not 
a single person in that room today, with knowledge of our progress on 
the ground, believes this war was lost or that our presence there was 
without merit. Unfortunately, too many in this Chamber seem convinced 
of the inevitability of defeat.

However this vote turns out, I am hopeful that tonight's roll call 
will end this effort to undercut our mission by undermining the 
authority of our commanders in the field. Republicans are willing, and 
have been willing, to work with the majority on this bill. But we will 
not waver on our insistence that an emergency troop support bill passed 
by Congress actually be focused on supporting the troops. The 
legislation before us tonight fails to meet that most basic standard.

I urge a ''no'' vote on this bill and ask my colleagues to join me 
tonight in standing up for the interests of our men and women in harm's 
way. And hopefully, very soon, we can join together in crafting a bill 
that will be considered quickly, as this one should have been, passed 
quickly, with help to the frontlines as soon as possible.

It's time for the political theater to end and the real work to 
begin.