---
---

# MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT OF
## `d1255486dd47722173ff10cfb6e13b63`
`Mr. LEAHY — 28 April 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am pleased to join the bipartisan group 
of Senators on this bill who all recognize our obligation to help those 
Iraqis who have assisted the United States in Iraq. This legislation 
will remove obstacles encountered by the Departments of


State and Homeland Security in issuing the 5,000 special visas that 
Congress authorized in January for those Iraqi citizens.

As part of the 2008 National Defense Authorization Act, Congress 
provided 5,000 special immigrant visas for Iraqis who had aided the 
United States as interpreters in the country. As chairman of the 
Judiciary Committee, I have supported these efforts. The Departments of 
State and Homeland Security seem stymied and unable to implement what 
Congress has provided. In our efforts to remove any impediment to fast 
implementation and address any excuse for further delays, we seek 
passage of this bill as well, to cut through bureaucratic stalling and 
technical requirements.

This administration has been woefully slow in recognizing its 
responsibilities not only to those Iraqis who have helped us, but to 
all Iraqis who have been displaced or have fled the violence still 
plaguing that country. The relative inaction by the administration with 
respect to those Iraqis whose lives are in grave danger due to their 
assistance of the United States is especially troubling. Action is 
needed now. The Judiciary Committee held its first hearing on this 
humanitarian problem more than 15 months ago. That hearing on the 
plight of Iraqi refugees was among our first, in January 2007. In the 
interim, the administration has continued to make promises it cannot, 
or will not keep with respect to the resettlement of Iraqi refugees in 
the United States.

The administration's failure to acknowledge the Iraqi refugee crisis 
is emblematic of its inability to address other serious human rights 
issues that are much of its own making. The injustice resulting from 
the administration's interpretation of the material support and 
terrorism related bars that were enacted following September 11, 2001, 
continues to deprive legitimate asylum seekers of our protection. The 
consequences of these laws continue to go unaddressed, despite the fact 
that Congress has now twice given the Department of Homeland Security 
the authority to alleviate the situation. While Secretary Chertoff is 
unwilling to use this authority to provide asylum to those who need our 
protection, he has repeatedly used the vast authority ceded to him by 
proponents of the REAL ID Act to waive landmark environmental laws in 
the course of constructing a border wall between the United States and 
Mexico.

This month, during the Judiciary Committee's oversight hearing on the 
Department of Homeland Security, I followed up by asking Secretary 
Chertoff about his Department's lack of progress on implementing the 
authority Congress has given to him to remedy the material support and 
terrorism bars. At that time, I challenged him to fulfill the goal of 
legislation I authored and Congress enacted to provide relief to 
individuals such as Saman Kareem Ahmad, who received a commendation 
from General Petreaus for his work on behalf of the United States in 
Iraq and instructs U.S military personnel in preparation for service in 
Iraq. Although Mr. Ahmad was granted asylum, his application for a 
green card was denied because the organization with which he had once 
served, the Kurdistan Democratic Party, was deemed a ''terrorist 
organization'' by DHS. I urged Secretary Chertoff to use the authority 
he has been given to ensure that individuals like Mr. Ahmad were not 
denied a place in the United States because of inflexible and expansive 
readings of the so-called ''material support'' bar. I hope the 
administration takes the opportunity Congress has given it to correct 
this wrongheaded policy and practice. It is long past the time for this 
administration to take action and acknowledge the severe humanitarian 
consequences of its policies, whether in Iraq, or at our shores where 
the persecuted are seeking refuge.

Providing for the safety of our Iraqi allies is only one aspect of an 
increasingly severe humanitarian crisis in Iraq. Refugees International 
recently reported that in the vacuum left by the failure of the Iraqi 
government to address the plight of millions of its internally 
displaced citizens, various non-state militias are providing assistance 
to those who are suffering. By the report's account, these militias are 
finding fertile ground for recruiting among this population, with the 
Shiite Sadrist movement now being the ''main service provider'' to 
displaced Iraqis. We have been pressing the administration for some 
time to acknowledge this crisis and to make increased efforts to assist 
those Iraqis who have been internally displaced or who have left the 
country. Now we learn that the dangers associated with the 
administration's failure to recognize the magnitude of this crisis go 
beyond the terrible human cost that has resulted and threaten to 
undermine any efforts to bring positive change to Iraq.

The bill the Senate approves today will be another effort to 
encourage this administration to fulfill its obligations to those who 
have sacrificed significantly to assist the United States. It is my 
hope that this will end the unacceptable delays and provide long 
overdue relief.