---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `d128c3aced28a94cc7414fbe4af38b74`
`Mr. HATCH — 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to pay humble tribute to TSgt 
Ryan A Balmer, who died of injuries sustained after the denotation of 
an improvised explosive device in Kirkuk, Iraq. A native of Mishawaka, 
IN, Sergeant Balmer was a member of the Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations and assigned to Hill Air Force Base, UT.

Sergeant Balmer was truly a special man. He was an individual deeply 
loved by all who knew him for his kindness, his positive outlook on 
life, and his infectious smile. Friends close to Special Agent Balmer 
say he was someone you always wanted to be around. They remembered a 
man who possessed the unique gift of being able to bring out the best 
in everyone and at 6 feet 2 inches tall he commanded respect wherever 
he went.

I understand that Sergeant Balmer was scheduled to come home only 
days after his passing. I would like to take this opportunity to extend 
my most heartfelt condolences to his wife Danielle and to his three 
children. I want to reiterate what they already know, that he saved 
lives and by his sacrifice that we, as a Nation, enjoy the great 
blessings of freedom so often take for granted. TSgt Ryan A. Balmer is 
an American hero in every sense of the word.

The sergeant and his family will be in my prayers forever.













 Sergeant Jesse A. Blamires


Mr. President, today I rise to pay tribute to one Nation's fallen 
sons, SGT Jesse A. Blamires. Sergeant Blamires was a native of Sandy, 
UT, and a member of the 82nd Airborne Division. He was killed in a 
helicopter crash in Afghanistan.

Sergeant Blamires had a lifelong connection to our Nation's military. 
His father Craig Blamires, with whom the sergeant enjoyed camping, also 
served his country in the Army. Eager to pursue his dreams of service, 
Sergeant Blamires followed his father's footsteps and joined the U.S. 
Army.

The sergeant was known as a man dedicated to reaching his goals. This 
was reflected by his recent promotion to crew chief. One day he hoped 
to become a helicopter pilot, a goal I am certain he would have 
accomplished.

His service in Afghanistan was not the first time Sergeant Blamires 
had been in harm's way. In 2005, he served a tour in Iraq. Well-
respected by his commanders and fellow soldiers, Sergeant Blamires was 
known for his ability to make others laugh and his willingness to help 
others in need.

However, undoubtedly, his most important life's work was as a family 
man. In addition to two caring parents and five supportive brothers and 
sisters, Sergeant Blamires is survived by his wife, Kim and their two 
young daughters.

Sergeant Blamires was a man who truly lived an abundant life. 
Although his calls to service often required him to be away from the 
family he loved, there was nothing Sergeant Blamires desired more than 
to be with his family. Fellow serviceman, SSG Ronald Walton recalls 
that Sergeant Blamires, ''dreamt of being a better husband and father 
to his two girls and he talked of it often.''

What a fine man.

What an extraordinary life.

We will always remember his dedicated service to our Nation, and it 
is my fervent hope that he and his family remain in our prayers.











 staff sergeant virgil c. martinez


Mr. President, I stand here today to pay tribute to a hero, SSG 
Virgil C. ''Chance'' Martinez. Sergeant Martinez was a member of the 
1st Infantry Division's 1st Battalion, 7th Field Artillery Regiment and 
recently gave his life while serving his country in Iraq.

From the time Sergeant Martinez was a 5-year-old boy, he felt a duty-
bound responsibility to follow in the footsteps of his stepfather and 
answer his country's call to service. His sister Kim Austin-Oliver said 
of her brother ''We knew at a very young age that he was going to be a 
soldier. It is who he has always been.''

As a teenager, Sergeant Martinez enjoyed playing on his high school 
ski and football teams. Shortly after graduating from high school in 
1992, he would achieve his life long ambition and join the U.S. Army.

I understand that Sergeant Martinez was a man deeply devoted not only 
to his country but also to his family. When speaking of his lost 
stepson, Daniel Oliver noted, ''Chance would do anything and everything 
for his children and for his mother . . . he was like the Disneyland 
father--wanted to show his children everything.'' Sergeant Martinez was 
the husband to wife Mandy and father of five beautiful children.

I would like to close my remarks by highlighting an observation made 
by Sergeant Martinez's sister. Kim Austin-Oliver commented that 
Sergeant Martinez died doing what he had always wanted to do, and that 
is, serve his country.

I can think of no truer definition of a hero. Sergeant Martinez and 
the family he has left behind will forever remain in my memory and in 
my prayers for his selfless service to our Nation.













 corporal michael a. pursel


Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to one of Utah's fallen sons, 
CPL Michael A. Pursel. Corporal Pursel, a member of the 2nd Infantry 
Division, recently lost his life in Baqubah, Iraq. He was 19 years old.

Corporal Pursel is actually a two-time volunteer. His service began 
when he joined the Army and he then volunteered to replace other 
soldiers from the 2nd Infantry Division. In fact, Corporal Pursel not 
only answered that call, but was one of the first to offer his service.

I have been informed that Corporal Pursel belonged to a family of 
great patriots, many of whom have served in the military themselves. 
This includes both of Corporal Pursel's parents. His mother Terry 
Dutcher, who is a Captain in the Air Force Reserve, said of her son, 
''Michael was doing what he always wanted to do . . . he died living 
his dream.''

In memory of the life of this great soldier would submit to you that 
the dream of serving one's country--the dream that CPL Michael A. 
Pursel achieved--is a dream that more Americans must embrace. Although 
young in years, Corporal Pursel understood the premise that to serve 
one's country extends far beyond the notion of being active in one's 
military duty. To serve one's country enables the rest of us to enjoy 
our Nation's greatest gift: freedom. This was at the very core of his 
service and how Corporal Pursel lived his life, the life of a hero, the 
life of one who will forever be remembered in my prayers.

This country owes CPL Michael A. Pursel a great debt of gratitude. He 
shall forever be remembered and honored for his service to our Nation.



