---
---

# FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `d12be5689e34d326c93b7f7683e97b21`
`Mr. HODES — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to be here tonight to talk 
about a number of issues that are of grave importance to this Congress 
and to the people of this country. I will be joined by some of my 
colleagues tonight who represent districts all over this country.

We are going to talk about a number of things tonight. We are going 
to talk about fiscal responsibility, which means money. It means we are 
going to talk a little bit about how in this Democratic majority 
Congress we have now taken a new responsible approach to spending the 
taxpayers' hard-earned tax dollars, because that is one of the main 
reasons that the taxpayers of this country sent a new Democratic 
majority to Congress, because they saw what had happened under previous 
Congresses. They saw that the Congress had engaged in borrow-and-spend 
policies that had left us with huge deficits, where before we had big 
surpluses, now we were running out of balance. And everybody knew that 
they couldn't run their businesses that way. They couldn't run their 
homes that way. And so they sent us to Congress to make a change about 
what we were going to do.

We are also going to move to talk about health care. We are going to 
talk about health care for kids because that is an issue that is very, 
very current. The President has vetoed a fiscally responsible, that 
means responsible with the money of the taxpayers, bill that would 
provide health care for the neediest kid in the country. He has vetoed 
that legislation. He said he doesn't want to have health care for our 
kids by vetoing that legislation.

We are going to be coming up for a vote in not too long about that. 
So we are going to talk about what it means for kids and for health 
care, and we are also going to sort of compare that to what is going on 
with the spending on the war in Iraq because the President and his 
administration have come and said they want to spend $191 billion more 
this year on the war in Iraq but they don't want to spend $35 billion 
to insure our kids.

I will just talk briefly now, and I have got a chart up, that shows 
you where we were when we started this Congress, what had happened with 
the mess. It is an example of what we were sent to fix, because this 
chart shows public borrowing by the administrations and the annual 
average of what we had to borrow to run our government. What you can 
see is where we came in to Congress. What we saw was, if you take a 
look down here in the lower corner, we started with President 
Carter. That little blue line shows that we were borrowing about $50 
billion. Then you can see what happened under Presidents Reagan and 
Bush. Then you can see over here that under President Clinton we were 
able to handle the taxpayers' money in a responsible way. In fact, 
President Clinton, who was a Democrat, handled money so responsibly for 
the taxpayers of this country that when he left office in the year 2000 
we were looking at budget surpluses over the next 10 years in the 
trillions of dollars. But when the Republicans took control, when 
President Bush came in, in 2000, he turned that upside down and topsy-
turvy, and what we were left with coming into this Congress was the 
fact that President Bush was borrowing about $300 billion during his 
first 6 years. He had turned surpluses upside down into huge deficits 
that left us in the hole as far as the eye could see.


That is what we came in with. We came in with that, and we had to 
restore fiscal responsibility. Now, ''fiscal'' is a big word. It just 
means being responsible with the hard-earned money that the taxpayers 
of this country send to Washington so that an effective government 
honors local control but is able to get the projects done and run the 
programs that the people of this country expect. They expect us to be 
stewards of the public trust. By that, I mean they expect us to be 
honest about how we are spending their money. They expect us to use 
their money wisely. They expect us, just like they do at home and in 
their businesses, to balance things out and not spend more than we take 
in. And they want to make sure that we are spending their money wisely.



So what we did in very short order, and then I will throw it over to 
my good colleague from Wisconsin, was the first thing we did when we 
came into Congress was we established, reestablished, what are called 
pay-as-you-go rules. It basically means if you are going to increase 
spending over here, in order to keep the deficit from getting worse and 
making sure we are headed towards balance, we have to decrease 
something over here. So we put in these pay-as-you-go rules. Every bill 
that is covered by those rules has been a fiscally responsible thing to 
do. It means that we are using the taxpayers' money wisely as we head 
towards a balanced budget. Because the other thing we did was in the 
Democratic budget proposal, we set this country on a new track to be 
responsible about the taxpayers' money. We said we are going to 
establish a balanced budget by the year 2012. We are going to do that 
with the pay-as-you-go rules and making sure that we are restraining 
Federal spending, that even as we shift priorities towards health care 
for kids, health care for our veterans, benefits for our wounded 
warriors, with the greatest rise in spending in veterans' benefits in 
the 77 years of the Veterans Administration, even while we are spending 
money on competitiveness, we are headed towards a balanced budget with 
pay-as-you-go rules because we understand that it is not our money. It 
is the taxpayers' money. Our job is to spend it wisely and to spend it 
in a balanced way. We also got rid of something called ''fast 
tracking'' in order to make sure that our spending was responsible.

Now, with that as a framework, one of the things we are still facing 
are huge costs for the war in Iraq. As I said earlier on, the President 
and the administration has now come and said they want $191 billion 
more this year for the war in Iraq. We have had a bill that would help 
insure our kids that would cost about $35 billion. So really, we are 
faced with a choice in this country. Are we, and are my colleagues 
across the aisle who are supporting the President, going to decide that 
it is not worth the investment to invest $35 billion over 5 years in 
health care for kids, but it is worth the money to invest $191 billion 
in the war in Iraq? Is that the kind of choice we, as a country, are 
going to make? Is that something that is sound policy? Does it make 
sense for our kids? Does it make sense for health care? Does it make 
sense for the taxpayers? Does it make sense for the country? Those are 
the kinds of questions that we have to answer.

Now, I would like to turn it over to my good friend from Wisconsin, 
Dr. Steve Kagen, a man who understands what health care is about, who 
has been in the trenches helping kids get well, helping families stay 
healthy. He understands things about children's health care. I am going 
to turn it over to you, my good friend from Wisconsin, Dr. Steve Kagen.