---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d12f913c10408325a288b5726a0e97e2`
`Mr. PORTER — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. PORTER. Madam Speaker, the Iraq war is the single greatest issue 
facing the American people today, and we must get the job done. Which 
is why I rise today in opposition to H. Con. Res. 63.

My prayers go out to Nevada's 26 families who have lost loved ones in 
this war and the other over-3,000 American citizens that have paid the 
ultimate sacrifice. I continue to pray for those who are in the war 
zone today around the world and for the families here at home.

Yes, a lot of mistakes have been made, but it is easy on Monday 
morning to look back and criticize. This war on terrorism is not in the 
textbooks. It is a war that must continually be reassessed, realigned, 
and restructured, because war is not perfect.

I want to bring the troops home just as soon as possible, as soon as 
the region is secured. There are no guarantees, but I believe the 
quickest way to bring our sons and daughters home is to send additional 
troops for a short period of time.

Madam Speaker, I oppose this resolution for three major reasons:

Number one, the impact on troops' morale.

Number two, there are no solutions today. This resolution sticks with 
staying the course.

And, number three, I believe this resolution puts us in the pathway 
of cutting off funds desperately needed for our troops.

First, on the morale: I have had the honor to be in the Middle East, 
in Southeast Asia, in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan on three occasions, I 
believe more times than anyone in our delegation from Nevada. I have 
looked in the eyes of these young men and women of all ages in the 
deserts of Iraq, in Bethesda, and in Walter Reed Army Hospital.

To a person, morale is at an all-time high. But what I do hear 
consistently from these folks is they are afraid that Washington has 
looked the other way. They don't want to be the last man killed, and 
they are afraid the funds are going to be reduced and cut off.

And, you know, I even disagree with Secretary Gates and his 
perspective, and certainly with the Democrats with their approach that 
this debate does not send the wrong message. I believe that you are 
wrong. It does.

I received this e-mail just this week from a soldier I spent 
Christmas Eve with in Baghdad this past Christmas. And he said, 
''Congressman, every day we are burdened with stories in the media of 
the American people wanting to cut and run, with slanted coverage of 
atrocities and the argument that it is possible to support the troops 
but not the war. I disagree, Congressman. Someone that supports me by 
extension supports my efforts to accomplish my mission.''

Madam Speaker, I hope this Congress heeds his words.

Another young man from Nevada visited the Capitol last year, wanted a 
tour of the Capitol, is proud of his uniform, because he was a soldier 
serving in the Middle East. But he was afraid he would be scorned, not 
unlike our family and friends that were scorned when they returned from 
Vietnam.

Through this resolution we are going to continue to send the wrong 
message to those who humbly protect our Nation.

The second reason, there are no solutions in this resolution. My 
father taught me a long time ago that before you complain you need to 
have a solution to the problem.



The Democrats have not presented the American people with a solution, 
only a resolution that endorses stay the course, which, as we saw in 
November, is unacceptable to the American people. This is not about 
leadership. This is unacceptable. I am open for ideas and suggestions 
as we fight this war on terror, but we must, we must win this war.

The third reason, this resolution opens the door to cutting funds 
desperately needed by our troops. The Democrats have said it time and 
time again. They are talking about cutting funds for body armor, for 
food, for military equipment and supplies.

This resolution, and their assertion this resolution simultaneously 
offers support for soldiers but not the President's plan, is 
disingenuous. I am deeply concerned that this resolution merely opens 
the door for Congress to move forward cutting off funds for our troops. 
We have heard it this week, and simply had the Democrats allowed the 
Republicans to add one sentence that we would guarantee we would not 
reduce the funds, would have changed the whole outcome of this 
resolution.

Madam Speaker, I appreciate this opportunity, but this resolution is 
a resolution of hypocrisy. The American people spoke in November and 
said we must not stay the course. I cannot support this resolution, and 
I don't believe the American people do.