# FAA AIR TRANSPORTATION MODERNIZATION AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENT ACT
## `d130fb41a79241be53a00bda5a663ea7`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 2 August 2010`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, last weekend, a Web page called 
WikiLeaks posted what they titled the ''Afghan War Diary.'' It involved 
the collection of 91,000 operational and intelligence documents about 
information that was collected in Afghanistan, and it was, they said, 
stolen from U.S. military networks.

These documents contain sensitive information on military tactics, 
techniques and procedures and it revealed the names of critical 
intelligence sources. Very sensitive information is now in the hands of 
adversaries, and I wish to express my outrage over this incident.



I am sad to say, this is what is breaking right now in Newsweek: 
''Taliban Seeks Vengeance in Wake of WikiLeaks. Leaked U.S. Intel 
documents listed the names and villages of Afghan collaborators--and 
the Taliban is starting to retaliate.'' That is the headline in 
Newsweek that has just broken.

I have the privilege of serving on the Senate Armed Services 
Committee and the Senate Intelligence Committee. I can tell you what 
has happened is very disturbing, and I agree with the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, who has stated that the release of these 
documents has endangered lives--both the lives of our American service 
men and women and the lives of Afghan people who happen to give us 
important information to help us protect our Americans.

It has been just over a week since the release of these classified 
documents, and the media reports indicate, as that Newsweek article 
indicates that has just been published, that the retaliation has begun.

Last week, when the New York Times reported on this subject, they 
said a search of the leaked documents ''gave the names or other 
identifying features of dozens of Afghan informants, potential 
defectors and others who were cooperating with American and NATO 
troops.'' That is the New York Times article.

Also, last week, in response to the listing of these names, a Taliban 
spokesman stated this:




 We are studying the report. . . .We will investigate 


 through our own secret service whether the people mentioned 


 are really spies working for the US. If they are . . . spies, 


 then we know how to punish them.


Well, we have the indications that the Taliban is following through 
with their plan to punish, so-called punish. According to this Newsweek 
article, death threats have begun arriving at the homes of key tribal 
leaders in southern Afghanistan, and over the past weekend one tribal 
leader was taken from his home and executed.

One of these death threats was shared with a reporter, and this is 
what the death threat states:




 We have made a decision for your death. You have five days 


 to leave Afghan soil. If you don't, you don't have the right 


 to complain.


Obviously, something very serious has happened, and there are a bunch 
of us who are extremely concerned about the damage this incident has 
caused to our operations in Afghanistan and to our national security as 
a whole.

There are a bunch of questions we have to answer. How could we have 
allowed the names of those who cooperate with us to be posted on an 
open-source Web page or was this surreptitiously taken away? Another 
question: What kind of impact will this leak have on our ability to 
gain the trust of local populations in the future?

This security breach is absolutely astonishing, and it represents a 
systematic breakdown in our national security procedures. I simply find 
it hard to believe that somebody could have downloaded tens of 
thousands of documents from our classified military networks without 
them being detected. So it brings us back to suspecting they have been 
leaked, and if it had never appeared, would we have known they were 
stolen from our classified networks?

Another question: How many people were actually involved in this 
incident? Do we have a way to determine whether additional documents 
have been or are being stolen in the same manner?

These are serious questions that I am sure the Department of Defense 
is examining as we speak. I applaud Secretary Gates for taking swift 
action to aggressively investigate who was responsible. But it is just 
as important to find out how our security practices failed to prevent 
the leak and to identify what must be done to prevent another security 
breach of this magnitude. The investigation is underway. We need to 
know the scope of the investigation. We need to be informed on what 
immediate steps have to be taken to address the network security 
breach.

When you start dealing with people's lives, you simply cannot fool 
around with this kind of laxity or someone betraying the country, and 
we have to get to the bottom of it.
















Small Businesses


Mr. President, I know this week we are going to be voting on the 
small business bill. My colleague from Louisiana is here, with whom I 
have had a number of colloquies on the floor. It is inexplicable to me 
how, because of procedure, Members on the other side of the aisle can 
keep voting no, not to bring up this small business assistance that so 
many political allies and political opponents all unanimously embrace.

Once we get through with this bill--and I hope we get it passed and 
do not have to wait around until September to do it--there are other 
things we can do. I filed a bill to give our businesses all along the 
gulf an amendment to the IRS Code that would allow them to take their 
losses and to carry back those losses 5 years instead of the standard 
practice of a 2-year carryback. In essence, that would allow them in 
this particular year to take the losses, which are going to be severe 
to so many businesses, especially small businesses along the gulf, and 
to carry back and amend previous tax returns where they had an income 
tax consequence because they had income. Therefore, they could deduct 
those losses going back 5 years instead of just 2 years.

The interesting thing about it is, the revenue consequence over 10 
years is $119 million. This is not the huge amounts we have been 
talking about in dealing with this gulf crisis of billions and billions 
of dollars. So in comparative terms, the revenue consequence is minor. 
Therefore, it is something else we can do for the people who have 
suffered so much, especially the small businesses along the gulf.

I yield the floor.