---
---

# None
## `d142eb8aaa259d90a8c198717d143c7b`
`Mr. CARDOZA — 9 July 2009`

---


Mr. CARDOZA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

House Resolution 617 provides for consideration of H.R. 3081, the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
appropriations bill for the fiscal year 2010, under a structured rule.

The rule provides for 1 hour of general debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations.



The rule waives all points of order against the bill and its 
consideration except those arising under clause 9 or clause 10 of rule 
XXI. The rule also waives points of order against provisions in the 
bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI.

The bill makes in order the amendment printed in part A of the 
committee report and the amendments printed in part B of the committee 
report accompanying this resolution. Each amendment is debatable for 10 
minutes. Finally, the rule also provides one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.

Mr. Speaker, the legislation that we will consider today, H.R. 3081, 
funds the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and related programs 
for fiscal year 2010.

This bipartisan bill reflects four key priorities: it protects our 
national security and combats terrorism; provides critical resources to 
meet global health and development challenges; ensures adequate 
oversight and accountability of our foreign assistance; and most 
importantly reforms and rebuilds America's diplomatic and development 
capacity.

In total, the bill provides $48.8 billion for fiscal year 2010. This 
is $3.2 billion less than the President's request, and $1.2 billion 
below the fiscal year 2009 enacted level including supplemental 
funding, a reasonable level of funding during these unprecedented 
fiscal times.

To protect national security and combat terrorism, the State-Foreign 
Operations appropriations bill provides $2.2 billion to Israel, 
provides $2.7 billion in assistance for Afghanistan and $1.5 billion 
for Pakistan, and it provides $1.8 billion total in economic and 
security assistance for Egypt and Jordan, two of our key allies in the 
Middle East.

It also requires a report on the status and progress of diplomatic 
efforts to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, and it 
continues a reporting requirement on bilateral and multilateral 
sanctions against Iran. Further, it prevents the Export-Import Bank 
from providing financing to any energy producers or refiners that 
contribute to Iran's refined petroleum resources.

The bill also continues to take aim at the war on drugs by setting 
aside $319 million for Mexico and Central America for counternarcotics 
and law enforcement programs. It also includes $520 million for 
Colombia to fight narcotics and criminal gangs and to promote 
alternatives to drug production.

The State-Foreign Operations bill makes great strides in increasing 
global health by providing funding increases for international HIV/AIDS 
treatment and prevention, tuberculosis and malaria prevention, safe 
water and hygiene, and child and maternal health programs. These global 
health investments are critical, not just in saving lives overseas, but 
in protecting the health of countless Americans from disease.

The State-Foreign Operations bill also ensures that the United States 
continues to meet our moral and humanitarian obligations abroad. The 
bill provides funding for countries facing long-term development 
challenges, improving foreign agriculture and food security programs 
and helping countries struggling with food shortages, supporting basic 
education needs, helping displaced people around the world with food, 
water, shelter and other basic needs, and providing lifesaving 
assistance during worldwide natural disasters.



It also provides $450 million for the Peace Corps. This is $77 
million above the President's request, which accelerates the 
President's commitment to expanding the Peace Corps, one of the most 
valuable programs our government can fund.

The lack of capacity in our civilian agencies has resulted in an 
increased reliance on American troops to carry out diplomatic missions. 
Besides placing an additional workload on our already overburdened 
troops and taking their focus away from their critical core missions, 
it is not in the best interests of our Nation to place diplomatic 
missions with our military.

Secretary Clinton, Secretary Gates, and the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff have all stressed the need to increase the capacity of 
the State Department and USAID. As such, the bill provides resources to 
hire 1,000 new State Department personnel and 300 new USAID personnel 
so our country can take the necessary steps to begin rebuilding and 
restoring our diplomatic capabilities that we shortchanged and 
underappreciated for far too long.

Finally, the bill also improves and continues the Democrats' 
commitment to oversight and accountability. It provides nearly $150 
million for activities of the Inspector General of the Department of 
State and USAID, as well as for the Special Inspectors General for both 
Iraq and Afghanistan reconstruction. In addition, this bill reverses 
years of accounting gimmickry through supplemental appropriations. 
Instead, it provides upfront, honest and transparent accounting of the 
true costs of meeting our critical foreign policy and national security 
initiatives.

Mr. Speaker, this is a good bill. In these tough economic times, it 
is also a fair bill. And, most importantly, this is a bipartisan bill 
that goes a long way towards restoring the strength and capabilities of 
the United States both here and abroad.

I commend the chairwoman, Mrs. Lowey, for her admirable efforts in 
ensuring our needs are met, both here and abroad, and to ensure that 
the national security and foreign policy commitments of the United 
States remain strong for many days to come.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.