---
---

# None
## `d148a0d1ad820e5ad6dc0e4ecfba3595`
`Mr. NUNES — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. NUNES. I thank the gentleman from Florida.










Congratulating the Fresno State Bulldogs


I'd like to rise in opposition to this rule, but before I do that, 
I'd like to take just a moment to recognize the accomplishments of the 
Diamond Dogs of Fresno State. The Central Valley's own Fresno State 
Bulldogs entered the College World Series and left as world champions.

The Bulldogs, who barreled into the College World Series with nothing 
more than the burden of proof on their side, showed not only that they 
belonged in the series but that they were nothing less than the best 
team in the Nation.

The Fresno State Bulldogs have triumphed in the face of adversity and 
have achieved the greatest victory in College World Series history. 
Their achievement has spoken louder than words and will become a 
testament to all those who seek to be better, to reach further, and to 
soar higher than ever before.

I share this, not only because of the great sense of pride I feel 
from the Fresno State Bulldogs' outstanding accomplishment, but because 
I believe their story is truly an inspiration for all. Our Fresno State 
Bulldogs' story is not one of miracles. It is a testimony of the 
strength of the human spirit. It is a force that can overcome any 
obstacle, even when faced with seemingly insurmountable odds.

Congratulations to the Fresno State Bulldogs.

Now, Madam Speaker, I was sitting here, waiting to congratulate the 
Fresno State Bulldogs, and unfortunately, we ran out of time on that. 
But I had the opportunity to be able to listen to the other side of the 
aisle's arguments, and I can't help but think back to 2006, because 
there's a lot of hot air here in Washington, as we know, but in 2006 
the Democrats said, if you put us in power, we're going to get our 
troops out of Iraq, we're going to surrender in Iraq, and we're going 
to just turn it over to the terrorists in Iraq.

Two years later, we're still in Iraq, Madam Speaker, because the 
Republicans stood up to the Democrat majority and said we're going to 
try to win and achieve victory in Iraq. We're still trying to do that, 
and it's very difficult.

The other thing that the Democrats also promised in 2006 is that they 
had a real plan to lower gas prices. Well, in 2 years, we have managed 
to double the price of gasoline, and in California, we're getting close 
to paying $5 a gallon. So I'm assuming that today's rule is the 
unveiling of this plan to lower gas prices.

However, the plan that you have before us and all that we continue to 
hear is that we blame the Texas oil men in the White House. Give me a 
break. You must have better legislation than that today. If this is 
your plan, to blame the White House, to blame oil speculators, to blame 
oil companies, American oil companies don't control the world's oil 
supply. The world's oil supply is controlled by foreign governments 
that, for the most part, are hostile towards us.



So if you have a plan to deal with these foreign governments, 
hopefully, we can see it today. If you have a plan that's going to 
somehow miraculously lower oil prices, maybe we're going to see that 
today because, right now, your plan is not working real well.










Announcement By the Speaker Pro Tempore
