# THE OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD
## `d16c0b554fe4c98a6124eb024c4529f7`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Thank you so very much. I appreciate you coming 
and joining us this evening.

So folks say well, what is it that you're asking for? Well I've 
talked about American values and American vision. And what we believe, 
what I believe Americans are asking for in this instance is open and 
honest leadership. It's what we oftentimes here in Washington give lip 
service to. But the fact of the matter is that the American people 
desire and I believe are demanding open and honest leadership. I 
believe, we believe that they have a right to transparent and fair 
legislative process. And the process that has been described for 
dealing with these earmarks, these special projects, these pork 
projects is neither transparent nor is it fair because it puts, it's 
not transparent because there's no light on it. There's no sunlight. 
There's no ability for, as my good friend from Arizona said, there's no 
ability for anybody to know who's asking for these earmarks during the 
process. And then there's no way for the House to work its will on an 
individual special project as to vote them up or down. Maybe thousands, 
literally thousands of them included in a particular bill. So that's 
not a transparent process. It's not a fair process because it 
concentrates power into the hands of too few individuals, the chairman 
of Appropriations or the subcommittee chairmen on Appropriations.

We believe that Americans have a right to sunshine on how taxpayer 
money is spent. That again gets to the transparency. You ought to shed 
light on it. How does this process work? Who's asking for the money? 
And so that they have to stand up and defend it in front of their 
constituents, in front of their colleagues and in front of the media, 
in front of the press.

And finally, that Americans have a right to merit based spending 
that's open to the public debate and open to public scrutiny.

Those are principles that I believe, we believe incorporate American 
values and an American vision that individuals all across this Nation 
have as the kind of vision for their government, how they believe their 
government ought to act.

Again, in November, if one had asked on everybody's ballot across 
this Nation, do you think that there ought to be less transparency, 
that there ought to be less accountability for special projects in 
Congress, Mr. Speaker, I'll bet you wouldn't have got 1 percent of the 
people across this Nation to vote in favor of that. Not one. So what 
we're asking for is accountability, is transparency.

I think it's also important, again, to appreciate that there are 
others across


this Nation who are concerned and dismayed by this process proposal 
that's been put forward by the new majority party. And I'd just like to 
highlight some of them, because I think it's important for folks to 
appreciate that this isn't just your usual political backbiting. This 
is serious business. This is how we're spending hard earned American 
taxpayer money. And the proposal is such that I believe, we believe, 
that it would be much less responsible, certainly much less transparent 
and much less accountable, and there are folks who believe that all 
across this Nation.

As I mentioned, the editorial in the St. Petersburg Times, one of the 
lines there said, ''The result then is that the earmark projects will 
receive almost no public scrutiny and no Congressional debate.'' 
Significant, major paper in an editorial today.

The Review Journal in Las Vegas, the Las Vegas Review Journal said, 
''Democrat earmark reforms lasted 100 days. When Democrats took control 
of Congress just 4 months back, incoming House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi of 
California bragged that it would take her party less than 100 hours to 
curb wasteful pork spending by requiring Members to attach their names 
to their earmarks exposing such waste to the harsh light of public 
scrutiny. She failed to mention that this reform would remain in effect 
for little more than 100 days. The anti-earmark reforms are just for 
show, mere window dressing.'' That's the Las Vegas Review and Journal 
from an editorial today.

There is a gentleman on CNN, Mr. Cafferty, Jack Cafferty, who has had 
a lot to say about Washington spending. Yesterday he said, ''Remember 
when the Democrats took control of the Congress back in January? On 
their very first day in power they approved rules to clearly identify 
so-called pet projects or earmarks in spending bills. You know, part of 
their promise to bring openness and transparency to government. Well, 
guess what? The Associated Press reports Democrats are not including 
the spending requests in legislation as it's being written. Instead 
they're following an order from the House Appropriations Committee 
Chairman David Obey to keep the bills free of these earmarks until the 
fall. Now, by doing this, nobody will know what the earmarks are when 
the bills are first voted on in June. And when they're finally 
announced in the fall, well, then it will be virtually too late to do 
anything about them. Clever, don't you think?'' That comes from CNN's 
Jack Cafferty, June 4, yesterday.

And so it's people all across this Nation who are concerned about the 
process that's been defined. The Toledo Blade, newspaper in Toledo, 
Ohio, in an editorial a little over a week ago, said, ''Backtracking on 
earmarks. Here's the outrage of the week from Washington. Democrats who 
took control of Congress by pledging reform and whacking Republicans 
over the issue of special interest earmarks already are perpetuating 
this odious waste of taxpayer money. Democrats promised to end such 
abuses. Now that they are in charge, they should live up to their 
rhetoric.'' That's an editorial in the Toledo Blade a little over a 
week ago.

From Montana, the Missoulian in Montana said, ''Congressional pork 
too tasty to leave alone. Congress is ignoring election promises and 
feasting on pork projects. What's on the menu on Capital Hill these 
days? Pork of course. Not that we're surprised, but we're scratching 
our heads given the promises and pronouncements of the last election 
season. In their first half year in office, the newly powerful House 
Democrats have seemingly lost their reformist zeal.'' Editorial from 
the Missoulian Montana this May 31 of this year.


How about Pennsylvania? Reading, Pennsylvania, the Reading Eagle in 
Pennsylvania said, ''Democratic vows remain unfulfilled. They can talk 
the talk but they seem to have difficulty walking the walk. As the 
approval ratings of Republicans plummeted prior to last November's 
general election, Democrats saw their chance to regain Congressional 
control. Representative Nancy Pelosi, who was soon to become Speaker of 
the House, said, 'We pledge to make this the most honest, ethical and 
open Congress in history.' That pledge,'' this is now from the Reading 
Eagle, from Reading, Pennsylvania. ''That pledge was broken in March 
when democratic leaders pushed through a $124 billion emergency 
supplemental bill to fund the military in Iraq and Afghanistan that was 
laden with $21 billion in pork barrel spending known as earmarks. A 
House rule instituted by Democrats that prohibits swapping earmarks for 
votes also seems to have fallen by the wayside.''

In fact, that brings up a specific point that is of grave concern to 
many of us. We highlighted on our side of the aisle a member of the 
Appropriations Committee who challenged and literally threatened a 
Member of the minority party, Republican Member, with saying that if he 
didn't support a certain bill, a certain provision, that his earmarks 
would be pulled from the appropriations bill. And it happened on the 
floor of the House. Many people witnessed it. And what did the new 
majority, when that was brought to light, what did they do with that 
complaint, with that concern, with that issue?

Well, Mr. Speaker, as you know, and you remember, they moved to table 
the motion, the resolution that would have simply required an 
investigation of that process. And tabling, as you know, Mr. Speaker, 
means that it kills the issue. It's dead. So the majority party wielded 
their muscle and made certain that an individual who is in the 
majority, who is muscling another Member of the House of 
Representatives and threatening to withhold certain funds from a bill 
because he wouldn't support another provision, that will go 
uninvestigated. That will just be tossed under the rug, swept under the 
rug. That, Mr. Speaker, is not the kind of United States House of 
Representatives that Americans desire or that they deserve.

Further, a couple of others, Mr. Speaker, of objective individuals 
citing their concern about this new process for spending on the part of 
our new majority. CNN investigative reporter Drew Griffin said on May 
25, ''The new open Democratic Party-controlled Congress promised the 
earmark process would no longer be secret. All earmark requests are 
made public with plenty of time for debate. But David Obey, the 
chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, and one of those 
Democrats bragging about those changes, has decided that earmarks, 
those generous gifts of your money, will be inserted into bills only 
after the bill has cleared the House floor. In other words, earmarks 
will still be done in secret with no public debate. There was supposed 
to be some kind of change. In the next few months, in what Congressman 
Obey says is the most open earmark process ever, the bills will be 
drafted, the earmarks added. But only then, just before those bills are 
passed, will the public learn where the treasure is buried.''

Mr. Speaker, that's not the kind of process that my constituents 
desire. That's not the kind of process that they voted for. It's not 
the kind of process that we've proposed. It's not the kind of process 
that is becoming of a House, especially when the majority party says 
that they are desirous of getting this fiscal house in order. It's more 
of that Orwellian democracy. Just because you say it doesn't make it 
so.

Associated Press on June 3 said, ''After promising unprecedented 
openness regarding Congress's pork barrel practices House Democrats are 
moving in the opposite direction as they draw up spending bills for the 
upcoming budget's year. Democrats are sidestepping rules approved their 
first day in power to clearly identify earmarks, lawmakers' requests 
for special projects, and contracts for their states in the documents 
that accompany spending bills.''

And finally, CNN's Drew Griffin said on May 31, ''Thousands of pages 
of earmarks in a bill time after time, and the Democrats promised 
reform and it's not happening.''

Mr. Speaker, what a shame. Truly what a shame. What a great 
opportunity we have to work together and fashion a system and a process 
that provides greater transparency, that provides greater openness, 
that answers the concerns of our constituents who say we want to make 
certain that there's sunshine on this process. We want to make certain 
that folks are held accountable. We want to make certain that our hard 
earned tax money that's going to Washington is


being spent in the most responsible fashion.

And so what is it that we desire? Open and honest leadership, Mr. 
Speaker. Americans have a right to transparent and fair legislative 
process. They have a right to sunshine on how taxpayer money is spent. 
They have a right to merit based spending that's open to public debate 
and to public scrutiny.

So I would ask my colleagues, I would challenge my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle to talk to their leadership, to implore them to 
urge them to move in the direction that they said they would move and 
that is greater transparency and greater openness and greater scrutiny 
of how these public monies are being spent.



So all is not lost. This is recoverable. I know that the chairman of 
the Appropriations Committee said that it would be so, but this is a 
435-Member body, and it ought to act in a majority fashion, and I am 
hopeful that at least some members of the majority party will see that 
that is not the kind of leadership and not the kind of process that 
their constituents desire.

Mr. Speaker, before I close this evening, I do want to touch on one 
other item very briefly, because I know that time is getting late, and 
that is the whole issue of taxes and spending.

As I mentioned, I was home this past week in the district over the 
Memorial Day break. And person after person, constituent after 
constituent kept coming up to me and talking about issue after issue, 
and one of the major issues was spending, spending in Washington, and 
taxes, making certain that tax money was being spent responsibly and 
that taxes didn't go up, which was why it was so concerning to them 
that this new majority has increased the authorization for spending 
already, in just 5 months, by over $50 billion; also why it was 
concerning to them that this new majority has passed a budget that 
incorporates $400 billion in new taxes. The largest tax increase in the 
history of the Nation, $400 billion. Phenomenal, absolutely phenomenal.

So when you think about how our economy has been relatively rolling 
along over the past number of months, over 16, 17, 18 quarters of 
growth in a row; more homeownership than ever before in the history of 
the Nation; the unemployment rate at its lowest continual rate in 
decades, lower than the average of the 1960s and the 1970s and the 
1980s and the 1990s; remarkable success in terms of an economy that is 
performing extremely well, one would think that it would behoove the 
majority party to say, well, I wonder how that happened. I wonder how 
that economy got to be so strong.

There are issues and points in time that you can recognize and point 
to and say there were changes made then that resulted in a very strong 
economy, and one of them occurred in 2003. This graph highlights it. 
These are tax revenues coming into the Federal Government.

And, Mr. Speaker, as you know, between 2000 and 2003, Federal tax 
revenue was declining. We had been hit by some significant challenges, 
9/11, a recession, the tech dot com boom burst, and so tax revenue was 
decreasing. So what happened in 2003, whatever this was, whatever 
happened on this vertical line here at that point in time, it resulted 
in significant increases to the Federal Government tax revenue because 
of a significant increase in the economy, a significant increase in 
productivity.

Well, Mr. Speaker, as you know, what happened at that time was that 
appropriate tax reductions were put in place. Fair tax cuts for the 
American people were put in place so that the marginal rates were 
decreased for everybody, so that there was a decrease in capital gains 
and dividends tax, a decrease over a period of time in the marriage 
penalty and the death penalty. All of those appropriate tax reductions 
were decreased.

Tax cuts result in more economic activity and more economic growth. 
It sounds counterintuitive, but, in fact, it happens every single time 
that you cut taxes. If you cut taxes, if you give the American people 
more of their hard-earned money, what they do is they determine when 
they save or they spend or they invest that money, and that results in 
a flourishing, increasing economic development and an increasing 
economic activity in our Nation, and it is undeniable what happened.

There is another graph that demonstrates it, that talks about jobs 
growth. Here you have a number of jobs created on the horizontal line 
from 2001 through 2007, and you see again, Mr. Speaker, before the 
appropriate tax reductions in 2003, what happened was a relative 
decrease in job growth, month after month after month after month. And 
what happened with the tax cuts on the American people, allowing people 
to keep more of their hard-earned tax money, what happens is an 
incredible increase in job growth, and that is why we have seen over 7 
million new jobs created since August of 2003. Incredible economic 
activity.

So it astounds me that the majority party believes somehow that if 
they increase taxes, again by passing a budget that has the largest tax 
increase in the history of the Nation, nearly $400 billion in increased 
taxes to Americans, almost $2,700 for every single Georgian, a 
phenomenal increase in taxes, it is incomprehensible to try to 
understand why the majority party believes that that is the appropriate 
kind of policy to put in place if they want to continue this kind of 
activity.

If they wanted to continue this kind of activity, one would think 
that they would conclude appropriately, objectively, looking at the 
facts, that the appropriate tax reductions ought to continue. But what 
they have said is, no, they ought not continue, that those marginal 
rates ought to go up, that we ought to increase taxes on every single 
American who pays taxes, that we ought to increase the marriage 
penalty, that we ought to do away with the decreases in death tax, that 
we ought to have increases in taxes on capital gains and dividends and 
we ought to decrease the incentive for investment. It just doesn't make 
sense.

I know that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are 
responsible. I know that they desire to do the right thing. I know that 
they have heard from their constituents back home, and I suspect what 
they have heard is please make certain that we continue an economy that 
allows our Nation to grow, that allows our Nation to defend itself, 
that allows our Nation to create jobs, that allows our communities to 
thrive. And one way to do that, one of the most effective ways to do 
that, is the way that it has happened every single time that it has 
been tried in our Nation's history, and that is to decrease taxes on 
the American people. Allow Americans to keep more of their hard-earned 
money. Allow them to be the ones who determine when they spend or they 
save or they invest their money.

So I call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to take a good 
look at what has happened. Take a good look at history. Take a good 
look at the remarkable economic growth and development that we have had 
across this Nation over the past 3 to 4 years. And I think what you 
will conclude, Mr. Speaker, is that those tax reductions ought to 
remain in place.

We live in an incredible Nation, a Nation that allows those of us who 
represent districts all across this Nation to come to the House of 
Representatives and to try our best as honestly and openly as we can to 
represent our constituents. It is a wonderful Nation. It is a beacon of 
hope and liberty for folks all around the world, and it is so because 
we are responsible when we act responsibly and we listen to our 
constituents and we decide issues based upon what their desires are and 
what is in the best interest of them and our Nation.

So I call on my colleagues to think seriously about the issues as 
they relate to taxes and economic development of our Nation. And I know 
that they will conclude what I have concluded; and that is decreasing 
taxes results in increasing economic development, increasing economic 
activity, and, amazingly enough, increasing revenue to the Federal 
Treasury.
