---
---

# CALLING ON JAPAN TO ADDRESS CHILD ABDUCTION CASES
## `d16c0342c2f0a0a372a296e052e9ce52`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Tennessee; 
I thank my colleague from New Jersey (Mr. Smith); and, of course, 
Chairman Berman.

Mr. Speaker, the United States and Japan have a strong and critical 
alliance. It is based on shared interests and values and our common 
support for political and economic freedoms, human rights, and 
international law. Japan, for example, is second to none in supporting 
President Barack Obama's vision of a ''world without nuclear weapons,'' 
and advocating for nuclear disarmament and nonproliferation. Japan has 
also recently doubled its civilian aid to Afghanistan, helping in our 
mission there to a great and important extent.

But, Mr. Speaker, this resolution involves 214 cases involving more 
than 300 American children who have been abducted to Japan and/or 
wrongfully retained in Japan since 1994. These American children are in 
Japan because they were kidnapped by a parent with Japanese 
citizenship. Despite a shared concern within the international 
community, the Japanese Government has yet to accede to the 1980 Hague 
Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction or 
create any other mechanism to resolve international child abductions.

Japan's existing family law system, which dates back to the 1600s, 
neither recognizes joint custody nor actively enforces parental access 
agreements that have been adjudicated by United States courts. 
Essentially, American parents must beg to see their abducted children 
and have no legal recourse if the taking parent decides to deny them 
access. That's wrong. In no case has the Japanese Government 
facilitated the return to a parent outside their country.

So the intent of this resolution is to bring the plight of these 
parents to the forefront of the public consciousness. It calls on the 
Japanese Government to ratify the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil 
Aspects of International Child Abduction so that Japan will commit to a 
process that will return abducted children to their custodial parent in 
the United States and elsewhere, where appropriate, or otherwise 
immediately at least allow access to their non-Japanese parent.

The Japanese Government doesn't consider it a crime and will not 
prosecute a Japanese citizen that abducts a


child and moves the child across national borders, which essentially 
makes Japan complicit in what many foreign governments consider to be a 
crime, including the United States Government, which considers it 
kidnapping.



Japan does, however, prosecute cases of foreign nationals who remove 
Japanese children from Japan, which violates any basic sense of 
fairness. So they apply a different law if somebody abducts a child 
from Japan than they apply if somebody abducts a child from the United 
States or from another foreign country and brings the child to Japan, 
where they have haven from the law. It is infuriating to learn, 
frankly, that Japanese officials have issued travel documents and 
passports to these abductors in defiance of previously established U.S. 
custody orders. In some cases, they have given false names to the 
children being kidnapped to Japan, issuing false passports so that they 
are directly complicit in these abductions.

Now, there are numerous heartbreaking abduction stories, and I am 
just going to mention a few because Mr. Smith went into several.

One case, though, in particular, which I want to underscore involves 
a case from my district in Virginia, which is right across the river 
from the Nation's Capital. It involves a Japanese mother who, for fear 
of what might happen to her child, has to request that her name not be 
used. Her husband, who is not Japanese, fled to Japan because he is a 
lawyer, and he knew that he would find safe haven from Virginia court 
orders in violation of U.S. law. So, here, he kidnapped a child from a 
Japanese mother, knowing that he could take the child to Japan and that 
he would find haven there from any prosecution under U.S. laws and not 
even have to allow access of the child to the mother.

It gets even worse.

Despite having no contact with her children, this woman has to 
continue to pay child support, and the address on the payment statement 
is the only connection she has with her children. That is wrong.

Mr. Smith mentioned the Braden case. Melissa Braden was secretly 
abducted from her home in 2006 by her mother and brought to Japan in 
violation of previous Los Angeles Superior Court orders, which gave 
both parents access to the child and prohibited international travel 
with the child by either parent. Yet the mother was able to take the 
child from the father in violation of court orders, and she is 
protected by the Japanese Government.

There is the case of Erika Toland, who was abducted in 2003 from 
Negishi United States Navy Family housing in Yokohama to Tokyo, Japan, 
by her now-deceased mother. So the mother is deceased, but she is being 
held by her Japanese maternal grandmother and is denied access by her 
father. So her father is living and wants to be with his child. The 
mother is deceased, and he can't even see the child because of the 
protection provided by the Japanese Government.

There is the case of Isaac and Rebecca Savoie. This was mentioned by 
Mr. Smith. They were abducted just last year by their mother in 
violation of a Tennessee State court order. You shouldn't be messing 
with Tennessee State courts. In violation of a Tennessee State court 
order of joint custody and Tennessee statutes, they were taken to 
Japan. Both children have been denied any communication by and access 
to their father. So the mother is holding them in Japan, and the father 
cannot have access to either child even though the court has ordered 
it.

There is one other case. Again, this is typical of so many other 
cases--more than 100. Lastly, the Eliases--one child aged 4, the other 
aged 2. They were abducted just about a year and a half ago, in 
December of 2008, from New Jersey. It was in violation of another court 
order prohibiting the removal of the children from the State of New 
Jersey. Yet they were taken out of the country. The children's father 
tries desperately to have contact with his children, but he is 
forbidden to have that contact. This father needs to be mentioned 
specifically.

Here is an Iraqi war veteran. He was shot twice in the service of our 
country. He was dragged from a vehicle that had been destroyed by a 
mine, and he returned home only to find an empty home and his children 
abducted. Right now, without this resolution's achieving its objective, 
he will have very little hope in ever seeing or hearing from his 
children again.

So, as tragic as these cases are, more are developing as we speak. 
According to this year's statistics provided by the U.S. Embassy in 
Japan, the number of cases of parental child abduction to Japan has 
doubled in the past 2 years and has more than quadrupled in the past 4 
years. The problem of abduction isn't going away. It's only getting 
worse. These children who have been abducted to Japan have not only 
lost their previous precious connections with their parents, but they 
have been deprived of their full heritage, their families and culture.

American parents are calling on the U.S. Government to urgently 
intervene and to quickly find a diplomatic solution. They have no other 
voice in this convoluted process. That's what we are asking for. These 
parents are not going to give up.

I want to thank Chairman Berman and particularly two of his staff 
members, JJ Ong and Jessica Lee, for their tireless efforts; Mr. Smith 
and his staff; and my own staff--Tim Aiken, legislative director; 
Yasmine Taeb; and Shai Tamari. They have worked diligently with these 
parents. I thank them for their efforts.

I particularly thank the parents who have committed themselves, 
devoted themselves to reuniting with their children. Who would not do 
that? That is why this resolution is so important. I trust that it will 
be passed unanimously.