---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `d16ccc186c8971ee3a5e81b19ec01256`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 9 May 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Thank you, Ms. Wasserman Schultz.

Your question is a perfect one: When will this madness end? When will 
we recognize that we need to set a new course, that we need to start 
paying attention to not just what's happening within the borders of 
Iraq but what's happening in Afghanistan, what's happening on our own 
shores, where we still haven't appropriated the amount of money to 
devote to the resources that we should in order to secure our own 
borders and our own ports?

And here is what it comes down to: If the Democrats weren't in 
control, the madness would never end; it would go on forever. There is 
absolutely no commitment, no willingness, no one on the other side of 
the aisle, very few at least on the other side of the aisle and 
certainly very few in the administration have woken up to the new 
reality here.

And to me, I won't say who it was, but a member of the Republican 
leadership the other day was quoted in the paper as saying this. This 
person said, you know what? The President, we are going to give him 
some time to put forth this plan to escalate the war in and around 
Baghdad.



But if it doesn't work, he is going to have to tell us what plan B 
is. Guess what. We are not on plan B we are on plan like double R. We 
have tried everything. We have been in there for longer than we were 
involved in World War II, and we still haven't found out what works.

Well, at some point, we are going to have to wake up to the notion 
that nothing that our military may try is going to work.

Now, if anyone can do this job, I think our military can do it. The 
problem is that we have gotten ourselves into a political quagmire, and 
the sooner we realize that plan A and plan B and plan C and D and E and 
F all didn't work, in large part because we have gotten ourselves into 
a mess that has probably, we hope, a political and diplomatic solution 
but may not have a military solution.

Ms. Wasserman Schultz, I just want to talk for a minute, I know we 
really want to talk about some domestic issues here, but I want to talk 
about some of the stress we have put on our forces here at home. 
Because I have to tell you, as we watched some of the tragedies unfold 
in the Midwest, in Kansas, and we saw the inability of our National 
Guard in that State to respond, unfortunately, it took that incident 
for a lot people to finally wake up to the notion that our Reserve 
units and our National Guard units, the very troops that we relied on 
for years, decades, to provide us with security when tragedy befell our 
compatriots here at home, aren't there any longer. We heard it from 
Governors in Iowa, Minnesota and, of course, now in Kansas.

The administration, as usual, seems to be more interested in throwing 
around blame than they seem to be interested in actually solving the 
problem. When the Governor of Kansas came out and said, listen, here 
you see it; we don't have the resources to respond to this devastating 
crisis because our National Guard units have been deployed over and 
over again overseas in a way that we never asked our National Guard and 
Reserve units to be deployed in the past, the White House came back and 
said, well, you know what? That is not our fault. That is the 
Governor's fault for not telling us that she had problems. If she had 
just told us she had problems, we would have done something about it.

Well, guess what? She did. Last year, quoted in the New York times, 
the Governor of Kansas said, we are not only missing National Guard 
personnel, we are also missing a lot of the equipment that is used to 
deal with situations at home, day in and day out.

Well, you know, we have heard a lot about how folks in the White 
House don't read newspapers with the rigor that some of us do. They 
certainly did not read The New York Times that day when the Governor of 
Kansas almost a year ago sounded the bell and said, if we don't start 
replenishing our units here at home, we are going to be in big trouble. 
And we are.