---
---

# IN MEMORY OF ARMY SPECIALIST BENJAMIN OSBORN
## `d171ddb78dc9b06d21a434032088821b`
`Mr. MURPHY of New York — 22 June 2010`

---


Mr. MURPHY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with the very sad 
duty of reporting the tragic passing of Army Specialist Benjamin 
Osborn. Osborn was killed in action in Afghanistan on June 15, 2010. 
Specialist Osborn was assigned to the Army's 101st Airborne based out 
of Fort Campbell, Kentucky. A beloved son, husband, friend, and soldier 
from Lake George, Ben will be sorely missed by the entire Adirondack 
community. My heart goes out to Ben's wife, Nicole, and to his parents, 
William and Beverly. This true American hero made the ultimate 
sacrifice in defense of his Nation, and we owe him our eternal 
gratitude.

Ben Osborn, just 27 years old, volunteered for the position of gunner 
because, in the words of his sister, Bethany, ''He was a proud soldier 
and believed in what he was doing.'' Specialist Osborn was willing to 
give his life in service to all of us and to the country that he loved. 
The expression of our gratitude for his sacrifice to our Nation is 
beyond words. This Nation has been built by great men and women like 
Ben Osborn, and we must never forget the true cost of the freedoms that 
we hold dear. I pray that it's not just on days like today when 
everyone is reminded of the hardships, suffering, bravery, and 
sacrifices of our Armed Forces. Every day we must try to be more like 
Ben and dedicate ourselves to these worthy ideals for which he gave his 
life.

On behalf of a grateful Nation, our thoughts and prayers are with the 
entire Osborn family during this difficult time.
