# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `d176b056b49bde17b3d66072f4d3a6d1`
`Mr. HATCH — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, today I rise to honor and commemorate one 
of Utah's fallen sons. SFC Nathan L. Winder was a native of Blanding, 
Utah, and a member of the 1st Special Forces Group stationed at Fort 
Lewis, WA. I have been informed that this good soldier tragically lost 
his life as he and his U.S. Special Forces Quick Reaction team came to 
the aid of another unit that was ambushed and taking on small-arms fire 
in Ad Diwaniyah, Iraq.

Shortly after graduating from high school, Sergeant Winder left his 
home in Blanding, UT, to pursue a career in the Armed Forces. In 2006, 
he graduated from the special forces qualification course in Fort 
Bragg, NC, and earned the coveted Green Beret.

As a 2-year-old boy, he was abandoned on the steps of a courthouse in 
Seoul, South Korea. Shortly after, he was offered a better life and a 
new beginning in the loving home of Tom and Teri Winder, incredible 
parents of 20 children. In his parents' eyes, it was from his 
abandonment and subsequent adoption that he developed the fierce desire 
to offer others the same kind of hope that was offered him.

Throughout his life, it was clear that Sergeant Winder had a special 
place in his heart for children. His family remembers how he often 
remarked in his e-mails that Iraqi children seemed so appreciative of 
the little things, like a wave from a U.S. soldier, a smile, or even a 
small piece of candy. Teri Winder said of her son, ''He loved the 
children. He gave them a sense that they were cared about.'' He did 
everything he could to offer them the hope he so gratefully received so 
many years ago. He was known for always carrying toys and candy to hand 
out to the Iraqi children.

Sergeant Winder was a man who lived his life with a profound purpose, 
deeply rooted in his convictions of moral reciprocity. His greatest 
desire was to take the freedom afforded to him and offer it to those 
who had none. Tom Winder said his son wanted the people in Iraq, if 
only for a moment, to feel some sense of freedom, however seemingly 
minute its manifestation.

In addition to two wonderful parents and 19 brothers and sisters, 
Sergeant Winder is survived by his wife Mechelle and an 11-year-old 
son. This great soldier and his family will always be in my memory and 
prayers.













 Sergeant Nathan S. Barnes


Mr. President, today I also pay tribute to SGT Nathan S. Barnes of 
American Fork, UT, who recently gave his life during a combat mission 
in Iraq. Sergeant Barnes was a member of the 10th Mountain Division's 
4th Battalion, 31st Infantry Regiment stationed out of Fort Drum, NY.

I have been informed that 400 American flags lined the streets 
leading to the Sergeant Barnes's family home in American Fork. I also 
understand that on the day of his funeral, hundreds of Boy Scouts, each 
bearing a U.S. flag and standing at attention, gathered along either 
side of the street to honor the fallen soldier.

That is the kind of tribute this brave and selfless soldier merits.

Sergeant Barnes is remembered by his family members and fellow 
soldiers for his love of friends and family, and for his humor, his 
commitment to serving the country and his profound dedication to his 
faith.

Sergeant Barnes was a man who truly lived an abundant life. When not 
engaged in the service of his country, the soldier enjoyed spending 
time outdoors jogging, hiking, camping, and hunting. Friends and family 
recall his insatiable appetite for good literature. All of these 
interests and hobbies were part of Sergeant Barnes' unique way of 
exploring what life had to offer him.

I would submit to you this day, Mr. President, that in a time when 
patriotism is a virtue often overlooked and lost in the midst of the 
swirl of issues, Sergeant Barnes' sacrifice brings us back to the core 
of what it means to be a patriot. I hope and pray that his sacrifice 
will inspire us all to reach for new levels of excellence and 
citizenship, to recommit ourselves to a greater measure of devotion to 
family and country, and above all, to continue to pursue ways to 
provide for a more perfect America.

I am honored and humbled by this opportunity to commemorate the life 
of SGT Nathan S. Barnes. He served his country with pride and answered 
its call when it needed him most. I will always remember him and his 
family in my prayers. Our nation owes SGT Nathan S. Barnes a giant debt 
of gratitude and for that reason I pay tribute today to his dedicated 
and selfless service to our Nation.
