---
---

# None
## `d18376340d1c1e7b01be23fa79c1a7be`
`Mr. PAYNE — 10 June 2008`

---


Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution 
and yield myself as much time as I may consume.

I am pleased to support this resolution that marks 225 years since 
the Treaty of Paris concluded the Revolutionary War with Great Britain 
and that acknowledges the close friendship enjoyed by our two countries 
ever since.

I commend our distinguished colleague, Representative Wu of Oregon, 
and Vice-Chair of the British-American Parliamentary Group, who 
introduced this measure. It is important that the House marks this 
anniversary and celebrates such a vital bipartisan partnership, 
bilateral partnership also.

The Treaty of Paris was signed on September 3, 1783, formally ending 
the Revolutionary War between the 13 original colonies and the Kingdom 
of Great Britain. The settlement of the war and the recognition of our 
young Nation by Great Britain was a moment of great significance in the 
infancy of our Nation.

Two hundred twenty-five years later, the United Kingdom remains one 
of our closest allies by virtue of our shared history and values. Both 
the United States and the UK have proud histories of representative 
democracy and respect for the rule of law.

They have also encouraged and helped many people around the world 
secure the freedoms and rights their


own citizens enjoy. During World War I, the United States and the 
United Kingdom fought together as a part of the allied forces against 
autocratic imperialism.

During World War II, again, against the Axis, our countries stood 
together against the scourge of Nazism and fascism. Our brave troops 
helped to liberate European countries from Nazi occupation, and 
innocent civilians from the horrors of concentration camps. We talked 
about the greatest generation, our World War II veterans, that we today 
still admire and respect.

Throughout the 20th century, the United Kingdom has stood side-by-
side with the United States on critical issues concerning liberty and 
human rights. Most recently the United Kingdom has strongly supported 
the United States' effort in South Asia and the Middle East. British 
soldiers are the second largest contributors to NATO's International 
Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan and the multinational force in 
Iraq.

The United States and the United Kingdom share long histories of 
industrialization, being among the first nations to develop 
technologically. Both nations have a culture of intervention and 
curiosity, as evidenced by the innumerable number of scientific 
discoveries and inventions. This work has enhanced the frequent 
collaboration between American and British researchers. We have a 
tremendous bilateral system going.

Indeed, such links are often developed at an early stage as young 
people take advantage of educational opportunities in each others' 
countries. There are currently 8,400 British students attending 
American universities and 32,000 American youth staying in the UK. 
These young people know all too well the extensive cultural links 
between our countries as British and American arts, music, literature, 
cinema, are enjoyed on both sides of the Atlantic.

In recognition of the close bilateral relations shared by the United 
States and the United Kingdom, I strongly support this resolution and 
urge my colleagues to join me in supporting it.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.