# HONORING THE 81ST BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM OF THE WASHINGTON ARMY NATIONAL  GUARD
## `d19450df10d5b1073809370efe5346e1`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as 
I may consume.

I rise today to pay tribute to the men and women of the Washington 
National Guard, including the members of the 81st Brigade Combat Team, 
who recently returned from an overseas deployment in Iraq.

I want to thank the entire Washington State delegation, who have all 
cosponsored this resolution in honoring this unit for their service to 
our State and to our country.

Throughout the Nation, hundreds of thousands of men and women in the 
Guard and Reserves serve our country. Over the last 8 years, we have 
asked more of them than anybody could have possibly imagined, and every 
single time, they have answered that call at great personal sacrifice. 
These are men and women who have lives, they have other jobs, they have 
families, and it is highly unpredictable when they are going to be 
called up and asked to serve, and yet they always respond.

It is critical to the safety and security of our country that they do 
this. They do it with great courage and dedication, and they honor our 
country by their service.

In my home State, various elements of the Washington National Guard 
have been deployed over that time period overseas in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but also we must remember that the Guard and Reserves 
serve us here at home as well. We have had numerous emergencies in the 
State of Washington during that time period on which the Guard and 
Reserves have helped us out. As well, we have had them deployed across 
the country in places like Louisiana. When Hurricane Katrina hit, they 
were called upon to do that. Their service continues for all of us in 
the State and across the country.

Most recently, the 81st Brigade Combat Team, led by Colonel Ronald 
Kapral and Command Sergeant Major Robert Sweeney, just completed their 
second 12-month deployment to Iraq. The brigade primarily engaged in 
convoy security, force protection, provincial reconstruction, and base 
operations missions around Iraq during their yearlong deployment.

They made our State proud during this service, as they have during 
all of their previous deployments. Again, this is done at no small 
sacrifice both by the individual members of our Army National Guard and 
also by their families, who have to deal with the disruption.

One of the most important things we can do in our State and across 
the country is to always support the families when the men and women 
are deployed, and to let them know that they are not alone in their 
service.

Their deployment was highly successful, honored by all who watched 
them serve. Tragically, one member of the team died during the course 
of his service. Specialist Samuel Stone, of Port Orchard, was killed on 
May 30, 2009. We all honor his loss and his service, and I ask that we 
keep him and his family in our thoughts and prayers.

The National Guard serves our State and our country in ways that most 
of us are unaware of, but it is absolutely critical to the security of 
our country. With our all-volunteer force, it simply could not function 
without men and women who are willing to take on this dual 
responsibility to continue in their civilian lives and who are also 
making themselves available for service whenever they are called, and 
they do not know when that is going to be.

As I said, it can be from the Governor in the State or across our 
country, or as has happened most recently, overseas deployments can 
come up when they are asked by our Federal Government to serve our 
Nation. Yet they are always ready, and they always respond, and they 
have served our Nation in a way that should make us all proud.

We literally could not have the national security we have in this 
country without their willingness to serve, and I thank the 81st 
Brigade Combat Team for their service on this most recent deployment, 
and I thank all those in the Washington National Guard who have served 
and who, today, stand ready to continue to serve. We honor their 
service. We thank them.

Again, I want to thank my colleagues in the Washington State 
delegation for unanimously signing onto this resolution honoring their 
service.

I reserve the balance of my time.

