# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `d19acc7e842f2ebd03335cc70157e388`
`Mr. LEVIN — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to vote for this budget 
resolution today. I believe this blueprint for the government's 
spending and revenues will help put us back on a fiscally responsible 
path.

Before I turn to the merits of this resolution, I want to address the 
fact that my amendment to establish a deficit neutral reserve fund to 
promote American manufacturing has been included in this resolution. I 
thank Senators Conrad and Gregg for accepting this amendment, and I 
look forward to working with them and other Members to carry out its 
intent.

I believe that we must take strong and dramatic actions in this 
Congress to revitalize and support our domestic manufacturing sector. 
We need to enhance our research and development programs, provide tax 
incentives to encourage and sustain domestic manufacturing, and level 
the playing field for our domestic manufacturers in the global 
marketplace. My amendment will be helpful as we fight in this Congress 
to take these important steps.

We need to stop the hemorrhaging of manufacturing jobs from the 
United States. Our economy and well-being are directly linked to the 
health of our manufacturing sector, yet we continue to lose 
manufacturing jobs in this country. Since 2001, we have lost 3 million 
manufacturing jobs nationwide--including more than 200,000 in my home 
State of Michigan.

Millions more manufacturing jobs hang in the balance. Our companies 
face enormous pressure in competing in the global marketplace without 
sufficient support from the U.S. government. Our companies are not 
competing against other companies overseas--they are competing against 
other governments that strongly support their manufacturing sectors.

We need to provide significant federal support for technology 
initiatives and advances that will help keep our companies on the 
cutting edge of technology development and competitive in the global 
marketplace. All of this requires a bold and comprehensive effort 
across many segments of our federal government. It will involve many 
committees and many federal agencies, but I believe it is critical to 
stem the tide of the domestic manufacturing crisis occurring in this 
country.

My amendment points us in the direction we need to take. It will 
support legislation that would revitalize our domestic manufacturing 
sector in four critical ways--by increasing Federal research and 
development; by expanding the scope and effectiveness of manufacturing 
programs across the Federal Government; basing support for development 
of alternative fuels and leap-ahead automotive and energy technologies; 
and by establishing tax incentives to encourage the continued 
production in the U.S. of advanced technologies and the infrastructure 
to support them.

There are many other parts of this resolution to be pleased with as 
well. For too long now we have been digging deeper and deeper into a 
ditch of debt. President Bush's budget submitted to Congress in 
February would continue that trend by increasing the gross Federal debt 
by nearly $3 trillion to $11.5 trillion by 2012. That's $38,000 per 
person. The budget resolution we are considering today should start to 
reverse that trend.

First, this resolution reestablishes a strong pay-go rule, which 
would require any new spending or tax cuts to be paid for elsewhere in 
the budget or receive a supermajority of at least 60 votes in the 
Senate. This concept is common sense for most families, who work to 
live within their means by balancing what goes out with what comes in. 
I heartily welcome its return.

This budget also takes the positive steps of establishing a new 
budget point of order against long-term deficit increases and allowing 
the Senate's unique budget reconciliation process, which was abused in 
recent years by the Republican majority, to be used for deficit 
reduction only, not to increase the deficit with measures which 
otherwise could not pass the Senate.

This budget also sets a blueprint for going after our country's 
massive $350 billion tax gap, which is the difference between the 
amount of taxes owed by


taxpayers and the amount collected. One of the primary tax gap areas I 
hope Congress will focus on this year is the offshore tax haven and tax 
shelter abuses that are undermining the integrity of our tax system. 
There are many ways Congress can go about tackling these problems, and 
I commend Chairman Conrad and the Budget Committee for their 
willingness to take on and push Congress to address these complicated 
areas. Cracking down on these abuses which shift the tax burden onto 
ordinary taxpayers is a critical step toward achieving fairness in our 
tax system.

Additionally, I am pleased that this budget assumes an extension of 
alternative minimum tax, AMT, relief for 2 years. This is relief we 
know is needed to avoid imposing this unintended tax increase on 
millions of middle income families. This time frame gives the Finance 
Committee time to work out a fix that is appropriate and, I hope, paid 
for.

The two AMT amendments offered to this resolution which we considered 
today were not paid for. The amendment offered by Senator Lott would 
add $231 billion to the debt over the next 5 years, and Senator 
Grassley's amendment would have cost $533 billion over that same time. 
We must not only fix AMT, we must fix it responsibly.

Furthermore, I am pleased that this budget resolution supports our 
men and women in uniform by providing all the funding requested by the 
President for national defense, for both the underlying national 
defense program and the additional costs of operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I believe our policy in Iraq must change, but I do not 
support attempts to cut off funds for our troops in the field. This 
resolution fully funds our forces at home and overseas, at the levels I 
and Senator McCain, the ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, 
requested in our letter to the Budget Committee.

I also believe funding for these ongoing operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan should be accounted for in our budget, and that it was past 
time the President and Congress stop treating these costs as if they 
were unanticipated ''emergency'' expenditures. I am pleased that this 
resolution supports the request Senator McCain and I made to build 
these costs into the budget.

This has two beneficial effects. First, it makes this budget more 
honest about the cost of this war and the impact it has on our federal 
deficit. Second, putting this spending into the regular budget process 
helps ensure that funding requested for operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan will receive greater congressional oversight. I commend 
Senator Conrad for his continuing leadership on fiscal responsibility 
and accountability.

On the issue of funding for our Nation's veterans, I am pleased that 
this resolution includes the resources needed to ensure that our 
veterans get the health care they deserve. In total, the resolution 
provides more than $43 billion for the Veterans Affairs healthcare 
system--$3.5 billion more than President Bush's budget. Again, this 
year, the Senate has rejected President Bush's proposal to raise 
copayments and to impose new fees and higher copayments on certain 
veterans.

I am also pleased that this budget affirms the Senate's commitment to 
authorize at an appropriate level the Children's Health Insurance 
Program, SCHIP, before it expires in September 2007. Making sure 
children have adequate health care should be one of our nation's top 
priorities. However, President Bush's budget would lead to the loss of 
critical coverage in many states. It is imperative that we reject that 
inadequate proposal, and this budget resolution does that.

This budget also represents a significant improvement over the 
President's budget for education. There are more funds for Pell grants, 
IDEA, and No Child Left Behind Act than the President requested. It 
would be shameful to fail in our responsibility to our children to 
adopt a spending blueprint that does not provide our schools the 
resources they need.

I am also pleased that this budget rejects the broad array of cuts to 
environmental protection programs that were included in the President's 
budget. This budget resolution fully funds the Environmental Protection 
Agency's programs to support clean and safe drinking water, and 
increases funding for the Superfund program by $211 million over the 
level in the President's budget. The budget also provides about $900 
million more for the EPA than the President's budget. This bill also 
protects Federal lands by rejecting President Bush's proposal to assume 
revenues from proposals to sell Federal lands.

I am also heartened that the budget rejects the President's proposal 
to drill in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, ANWR.

Further, I also support the Senate's adoption of an amendment to fund 
the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, LIHEAP, at $3.2 billion, 
which will ensure that more households can be served by this very 
important program. Unfortunately, this program has been woefully 
underfunded by President Bush's budget, as well as in past years.

I also want to talk a bit about a couple more of the amendments we 
voted on today. I support extending tax cuts for low- and middle-income 
taxpayers. However, I opposed Senator Graham's amendment because it 
would have extended the excessive tax cuts for those in the highest 
income bracket which I have opposed from the first time we voted on it 
in 2001, and which we simply can't afford.

I also opposed an estate tax amendment offered by Senator Ben Nelson. 
I would support legislation to prevent a return to the 2001 exemption 
level, which is too low and no longer appropriate. The current law 
estate tax exemption level for 2009 of $3.5 million, $7 million for 
couples, is appropriate and results in only one-third of one percent of 
estates owing any estate tax. I also had concerns about the Nelson 
amendment because it proposed a reduction of the rate to 35 percent, 
which would be a huge loss to the treasury and the amendment does not 
specify how the revenue needed to keep these changes from increasing 
the deficit would be raised.

It is a welcome change to be voting for a budget resolution that I 
believe can change the failed fiscal policies and irresponsible tax 
cuts pushed by this administration. This resolution paves the way for 
important investments in America's future to put our country back on 
track and to begin the long process of climbing out of the ditch of 
debt.

Mr. President, during this budget debate there have been different 
views expressed regarding the amount of revenue that would result if 
Congress will go after the offshore tax haven and tax shelter abuses 
that are undermining the integrity of our tax system. There are many 
ways Congress can go about tackling these problems, and I commend 
Chairman Conrad and the Budget Committee for their willingness to take 
on and push Congress to address these complicated areas. Cracking down 
on these abuses is a critical step toward achieving fairness in our tax 
system.

If Congress addresses these inequities, it would also bring in 
billions of dollars needed to pay for many important national 
priorities. These priorities are recognized in this budget resolution 
itself, such as education, children's health care, veterans medical 
care, community development block grants, and law enforcement. We can 
go a long way toward paying for these critical programs by stopping 
these tax dodges that rob the Treasury of up to $100 billion a year, 
and shift the tax burden from high-income persons and companies who are 
principal users of offshore tax havens onto the backs of middle-income 
families who pay their taxes.

For many years, the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, of 
which I am chairman, has been looking at the problem of offshore 
corporate, bank, and tax secrecy laws and practices that help taxpayers 
dodge their U.S. tax obligations by preventing U.S. tax authorities 
from gaining access to key financial and beneficial ownership 
information.

The subcommittee has also spent years looking at abusive tax 
shelters, which are complicated transactions promoted to provide tax 
benefits unintended by the Tax Code. They are very different from 
legitimate tax shelters, such as deducting the interest paid on home 
mortgages or congressionally approved tax deductions for building 
affordable housing. Some abusive tax


shelters involve complicated domestic transactions; others make use of 
offshore shenanigans. All abusive tax shelters are marked by one 
characteristic: no real economic or business rationale other than tax 
avoidance.

I would like to talk briefly about what we found during those 
investigations. I think the specifics help make clear that if we have 
the political will, these are areas ripe with abuses that we can put an 
end to.

Offshore Investigation. During its year long investigation into 
offshore tax haven abuses, the subcommittee issued more than 70 
subpoenas, conducted more than 80 interviews, and reviewed more than 2 
million pages of documents. In the resulting hearing held in August 
2006, the subcommittee showed through case studies that offshore tax 
haven countries have, in effect, declared economic war on honest U.S. 
taxpayers by giving tax dodgers a way to avoid their U.S. tax bills and 
leave them for others to pay. Offshore tax havens attract these tax 
dodgers by shrouding their financial transactions in a ''black box'' of 
secrecy that is extremely difficult to penetrate. They sell secrecy to 
attract customers and reward them with low or no taxes.

This legal black box allows tax dodgers to hide assets, mask who 
controls them, and obscure how their assets are used. An army of 
''offshore service providers'' lawyers, bankers, brokers, and others 
then joins forces to exploit the impenetrable curtain of secrecy and 
help clients skirt U.S. tax, securities, and antimoney laundering laws. 
Many of the firms concocting or facilitating these schemes are 
respected names here in the United States.

These schemes require the secrecy of tax havens because they can't 
stand the light of day. Our investigation laid out six case studies 
that illustrated the scope and seriousness of the problem. In one case, 
two U.S. citizens moved about $190 million in untaxed stock option 
compensation offshore to a complex array of 58 offshore trusts and 
corporations and utilized a wide range of offshore mechanisms to 
exercise direction over these assets and hundreds of millions of 
dollars in investment gains. These untaxed earnings were then used to 
finance business ventures, acquire real estate, provide loans, and buy 
art, furnishings and jewelry for the personal use of the family 
members.

Much of this elaborate scheme involved an offshore bank and an 
administrative services firm for offshore entities, both housed in a 
building in the Cayman Islands that we have shown a few times on the 
Senate floor during this budget debate, the Ugland House. Believe it or 
not, the building is the official address of 12,748 companies. Just 
having a post office box in the building enables these shell companies 
to shift profits that otherwise should be reported as taxable income in 
the country where it is actually earned.

In another case study, two offshore shell corporations engaged in 
fake stock transactions, seeming to trade stock back and forth as if it 
were fantasy baseball to create the illusion of economic activity. The 
shell corporations pretended to run up hundreds of millions of dollars 
in fake stock losses and then used these phantom losses to offset about 
$2 billion in real capital gains of the promoters' U.S. clients. The 
result was $300 million in lost tax revenues to the Treasury. This 
offshore scheme would be comical because of its complexity but for the 
sobering fact that these tax haven abuses are eating away at the fabric 
of the U.S. tax system and undermining U.S. laws intended to safeguard 
our capital markets and financial systems from financial crime.

Our investigation shone a needed spotlight into the black box of 
offshore tax havens. It revealed a system that is corrupt and 
corrupting. Honest Americans are footing the bill for tax haven abuses, 
and it is long past time for Congress to shut those abuses down.

Abusive Tax Shelters. In addition to offshore shenanigans, there are 
plenty of homegrown tax shelters being used to dodge taxes. For 5 
years, our subcommittee has also been conducting investigations into 
the design, sale, and implementation of these complex transactions that 
have no economic or business rationale other than to avoid tax. Our 
first hearing on this topic in recent years was held in January 2002, 
when the subcommittee examined an abusive tax shelter purchased by 
Enron. In November 2003, the subcommittee held 2 days of hearings and 
released a staff report that pulled back the curtain on how even some 
respected accounting firms, banks, investment advisors, and law firms 
had become engines pushing the design and sale of abusive tax shelters 
to corporations and individuals across this country. In February 2005, 
the subcommittee issued a bipartisan report that provided further 
details on the role these professional firms played in the 
proliferation of these abusive shelters. Our subcommittee report was 
endorsed by the full Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs in April 2005. Most recently, a 2006 subcommittee staff report 
entitled, ''Tax Haven Abuses: The Enablers, the Tools, and Secrecy,'' 
disclosed how financial and legal professionals designed and sold yet 
another abusive tax shelter known as the POINT Strategy, which depended 
on secrecy laws and practices in the Isle of Man to conceal the phantom 
nature of securities trades that lay at the center of that tax shelter 
transaction.


The subcommittee investigations have found that many abusive tax 
shelters are not dreamed up by the taxpayers who use them. Instead, 
most are devised by tax professionals, such as accountants, bankers, 
investment advisors, and lawyers, who then sell the tax shelter to 
clients for a fee. In fact, as our 2003 investigation widened, we found 
a large number of tax advisors cooking up one complex scheme after 
another, packaging them up as generic ''tax products'' with boiler-
plate legal and tax opinion letters, and then undertaking elaborate 
marketing schemes to peddle these products to literally thousands of 
persons across the country. In return, these tax shelter promoters were 
getting hundreds of millions of dollars in fees, while diverting 
billions of dollars in tax revenues from the U.S. Treasury each year.

For example, one shelter investigated by the subcommittee and 
featured in the 2003 hearings has since become part of an IRS effort to 
settle cases involving a set of abusive tax shelters known as ''Son of 
Boss.'' Following our hearing, more than 1,200 taxpayers have admitted 
wrongdoing and agreed to pay back taxes, interest, and penalties 
totaling more than $3.7 billion. That is billions of dollars the IRS 
has collected on just one type of tax shelter, demonstrating both the 
depth of the problem and the potential for progress. The POINT shelter 
featured in our 2006 hearing involved another $300 million in taxes 
lost to the Treasury on transactions conducted by just six taxpayers.

Tax Levies on Federal Contractors Who Don't Pay Their Taxes. That is 
not all. For the last 4 years, our subcommittee has been focusing 
attention on another sector of the tax gap involving Federal 
contractors who don't pay their taxes. These contractors are stuffing 
their pockets with taxpayer dollars, while stiffing Uncle Sam by not 
paying their taxes.

Past subcommittee hearings have exposed the fact that there are about 
27,000 defense contractors with $3 billion in unpaid taxes; 33,000 
contractors with other Federal agencies who owe $3.3 billion in unpaid 
tax debt; and 3,800 GSA contractors with $1.4 billion in unpaid tax 
debt. Earlier this week, another subcommittee hearing put the spotlight 
on 21,000 Medicare physicians and related medical suppliers with $1.3 
billion in unpaid tax debt. These mind-boggling numbers represent tens 
of thousands of companies putting their hand in the taxpayers' wallet, 
while dodging billions of dollars in tax obligations.

A key program designed to stop this type of abuse is the Federal 
Payment Levy Program. This program was enacted about 10 years ago to 
enable the Federal Government to identify Federal payments being made 
to tax deadbeats, and to withhold a portion of those taxpayer dollars 
to pay off a portion of the person's tax debt. For the last 4 years, 
our subcommittee has conducted an intensive effort to strengthen the 
tax levy program for Federal contractors who don't pay their taxes. As 
a result, over the past 3 years, tax levy collections as a whole have 
more than doubled, increasing from about $136 million in 2004 to nearly 
$340 million in 2006. Of these totals, tax levy collections from 
Federal contractors in particular have also more than doubled, 
increasing from about $28 million


to $62 million. But $62 million is only a fraction of the billions of 
uncollected taxes owed by Federal contractors getting paid hundreds of 
billions in taxpayer dollars. Much more can and should be done to 
reduce the Federal tax gap by increasing tax levy collections.

The first step would be to require the Center for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services to move as quickly as possible to make all $450 
billion Medicare and Medicaid payments each year subject to the tax 
levy program, so that all of these taxpayer dollars are screened for 
repayment of tax debt. The next step would be to strengthen the tax 
levy program as a whole. In 2006, for example, the Federal Government 
identified a total of about $122 billion in assessed tax debt that 
could be collected, in part, through the tax levy program. At the same 
time, it determined that only about 45 percent of that uncollected tax 
debt was actually matched against the Federal payments being made that 
year. In other words, in 2006, some $67 billion in tax debt was never 
''turned on'' for actual collection under the tax levy program.

Simple reforms could ensure that a lot more of that $67 billion is 
set up for collection under the tax levy program. One key barrier right 
now, for example, is an elaborate series of tax levy notices, mandated 
by law, that currently have to be issued by the IRS before tax debt can 
be collected through the tax levy program. While the tax levy notices 
make sense if the Federal Government is targeting payments being 
provided by a third party, such as an employer, they make a lot less 
sense when the levy is targeting taxpayer dollars going to the very 
people who owe the tax debt. For that reason, Senator Coleman and I 
plan to introduce legislation to reform the tax levy notice process for 
Federal payments. We also plan to strengthen other aspects of the tax 
levy program to start narrowing that multibillion-dollar tax gap.

IRS Enforcement Efforts to Reduce the Tax Gap. In our efforts to 
reducing the tax gap, it will be critical that we give the IRS the 
funds it needs to go after tax dodgers. For every dollar invested in 
the IRS's budget, the service yields more than $4 in enforcement 
revenue. Beyond the additional revenues collected, increased IRS 
enforcement deters those who might otherwise have dodged their tax 
obligations and reassures honest taxpayers that compliance with the law 
is broadly achieved.

I am pleased that this budget resolution fully funds the President's 
budget request for the IRS, and includes an additional $399 million 
available for IRS enforcement activities. I can't think of many better 
investments to recover revenues wrongfully lost to the U.S. Treasury 
and to build respect for the law and respect for the honest Americans 
who play by the rules and meet their tax obligations.

Scope of Problem. The abusive tax shelters and offshore case studies 
that the subcommittee has delved into are merely a handful of examples 
that can be used to better understand the details behind these 
widespread problems.


Because secrecy is such a key component of offshore abuses, it is 
incredibly difficult to estimate just how much income is sheltered 
offshore. Recent estimates from tax experts, Joe Guttentag and Reuven 
Avi-Yonah, estimate that offshore tax haven abuses by individuals cost 
the U.S. Treasury between $40 billion and $70 billion a year in taxes 
that are owed but not collected.

Corporations are also using tax havens to avoid payment of U.S. 
taxes. Preliminary results from a study to be released soon by Kimberly 
Clausing of Wellesley College show that $50 billion in U.S. revenue was 
lost in 2002 from profit-shifting by corporations to low-tax countries. 
A GAO report Senator Dorgan and I released in 2004 found that nearly 
two-thirds of the top 100 companies doing business with the U.S. 
Government had one or more subsidiaries in a tax haven. One company, 
Tyco International, had 115. Enron, in its heyday, had over 400 Cayman 
subsidiaries.

Data released by the Commerce Department further demonstrates the 
extent of U.S. corporate use of tax havens, indicating that, as of 
2001, almost half of all foreign profits of U.S. corporations were in 
tax havens. A study released by the journal, ''Tax Notes'' in September 
2004 found that American companies were able to shift $149 billion of 
profits to 18 tax haven countries in 2002, up 68 percent from $88 
billion in 1999.

A 2004 study by Professor John Zdanowicz found that transfer pricing 
abuses by corporations cost the U.S. Treasury $53 billion a year. Last 
year the IRS settled a transfer pricing dispute with one company alone, 
drug giant Glaxo SmithKline, for $3.4 billion. The size of this 
settlement with just one company indicates that it is worth looking to 
see if there are ways to improve the relevant portions of the Tax Code. 
Treasury has proposed regulations in this area, and I urge the 
administration to finalize those rules in as strong a form as possible. 
I also urge the Finance Committee and others to make it a priority to 
stop these transfer pricing abuses that are hurting average taxpayers 
as well as disadvantaging U.S. companies that play by the rules.

How to Address the Problem. One of the big questions that surrounds 
all of this is how to start addressing these problems. I have a bill 
that would be a huge step in the right direction. We can't let the 
offshore tax havens hide $100 billion in U.S. tax revenues which are 
needed to protect our troops, fund health care and education, and meet 
the other needs of American families. We cannot tolerate high-priced 
accountants, lawyers, and banks concocting ways for tax cheats to 
offload their unpaid taxes onto the backs of honest taxpayers. That is 
why earlier this year I introduced the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, along 
with Senators Coleman and Obama. This bill provides a powerful set of 
new tools to clamp down on offshore tax and tax shelter abuses.

Among other measures, our bill would:

Establish Presumptions to Combat Offshore Secrecy by allowing U.S. 
tax and securities law enforcement to presume that nonpublicly traded, 
offshore corporations and trusts are controlled by the U.S. taxpayers 
who formed them or sent them assets, and to presume that money moving 
between U.S. taxpayers and offshore entities is taxable income, unless 
the taxpayer proves otherwise;

Impose Tougher Requirements on U.S. Taxpayers Using Offshore Secrecy 
Jurisdictions by listing 34 jurisdictions which have already been named 
in IRS court filings as probable locations for U.S. tax evasion;

Authorize Special Measures to Stop Offshore Tax Abuses by giving 
Treasury authority to take special measures against foreign 
jurisdictions and financial institutions that impede U.S. tax 
enforcement;

Strengthen Detection of Offshore Activities by requiring U.S. 
financial institutions that open accounts for foreign entities 
controlled by U.S. clients, open accounts in offshore secrecy 
jurisdictions for U.S. clients, or establish entities in offshore 
secrecy jurisdictions for U.S. clients, to report such actions to the 
IRS;

Close Offshore Trust Loopholes by taxing offshore trust income used 
to buy real estate, artwork and jewelry for U.S. persons, and treating 
as trust beneficiaries those persons who actually receive offshore 
trust assets;

Strengthen Penalties on tax shelter promoters by increasing the 
maximum fine to 150 percent of their ill-gotten gains, and on corporate 
insiders who hide offshore stock holdings by increasing the maximum 
fine on them to $1 million per violation of U.S. securities laws;

Stop Tax Shelter Patents by prohibiting the U.S. Patent and Trademark 
Office from issuing patents for ''inventions designed to minimize, 
avoid, defer, or otherwise affect liability for Federal, State, local, 
or foreign tax''.

This is only a partial list of a host of innovative measures we have 
included in our bill to strengthen the ability of Federal regulators to 
combat offshore tax haven and tax shelter abuses. We believe these new 
tools merit congressional attention and enactment this year if we are 
going to begin to make a serious dent in the $100 billion in annual 
lost tax revenue from offshore tax abuses that forces honest taxpayers 
to shoulder a greater tax burden than they would otherwise have to 
bear.

Tax cheats make it harder to maintain our highways, protect our 
borders, advance medical research, and inspect our food. They make it 
difficult to give needed tax relief to small businesses


and middle-income victims of the alternative minimum tax. They also 
deepen the deficit ditch that threatens the economic well-being of our 
children and grandchildren. The assumptions made in this budget 
resolution that we can raise ample revenues by shutting them down are 
not only reasonable, they are crucial to maintaining the integrity of 
our tax system. I applaud Chairman Conrad and the Budget Committee, as 
well as the Finance Committee and Chairman Baucus, for their hard 
fought efforts on this front, and I look forward to working with them 
and other allies on this issue as we address these problems later this 
year.