# None
## `d19ca169c3e64cf11f331991cd3859f3`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, Mr. Ryan, I want to thank you for sharing 
not only thoughts about the Members, but also reminding them of the 
work that has been done and work that needs to be done here on this 
house floor.

I can tell you, Mr. Ryan, that it's very frustrating at times to hear 
and see some of the finger pointing that goes on not only here under 
the Capitol dome, but here in Washington, D.C. The work that this 110th 
Congress has done overshadows the work of the 109th Congress as it 
relates to accomplishing things on behalf of the American people. And I 
am very concerned about the fact that Members seem to get a little 
amnesia on how we got to where we are now.

Last week, I had a chart on the floor here. I don't know what 
happened to it. I'm not accusing anybody of anything. But I was driving 
the point home of the colleagues on the other side about gas prices and 
writing the Speaker a letter saying, What are you going to do? You 
promised a year ago that you would do something about it. What are you 
going to do? What are the Democrats going to do? The Republican 
leadership wrote, We stand firm to be with you as it relates to doing 
something about energy prices or gas prices.

And it's interesting because these are the individuals who, 
especially on the Republican side, were a part of supporting and 
standing up the 2001 plan and the meeting that took place in the White 
House with Mr. Cheney and a number of energy companies, which I think 
was one of the most profitable meetings for the oil industry because 
they have just hand-over-fist made money since that meeting. And even 
today I think it was projected or it was announced that it's another 
record-breaking quarter for oil companies while Americans pay through 
the nose and small businesses pay through the nose for fuel.

I couldn't help but be on I-75 in Florida on my way back to Miami 
from St. Petersburg about 3 weeks ago and stopped at a Pilot gas 
station. And I was driving my uncle's truck, and the guy asked for my 
ID and credit card and all of those things. And I said, Goodness. I had 
to give my ID. I was paying with cash. I said, This is interesting. I 
am paying with cash and I have to show you my ID.

He said, Well, sir, we have had an uptick in truckers in filling up 
and pulling out without paying. I said, Wow. That's interesting. I mean 
with all of the tags and identifying markers identifying the company or 
the private-owned companies. And he said, I can tell you something--of 
course, he saw me and didn't think that I was anything like a 
congressman or anything--but he said, Times are hard out there. I mean, 
these guys, they can't afford to fill up their truck and make a profit 
and be able to support their family. Not justifying it, but he said, 
The higher gas goes, the more protection that soon we're going to have 
to have someone out there getting tags or doing some sort of check to 
make sure that they actually put in the amount that they paid for.

Saying all of that, that's the reason why, during the self-service 
days: Pay first, then pump.

I'm saying all of that to make the point that times are hard out 
there. We know. Bread is $3 a loaf. We know this. The fact that rice, 
even if you go to Costco now you can't buy a 50-pound bag of rice. I 
mean, it's like being rationed, in a way. And just the price of food 
all over the world has really exploded.

Saying all of that, Mr. Ryan, I think that when we start looking at 
our work here in Congress, now more than ever, Members, we have to hold 
first the American people and their will, we have to hold that as our 
number one priority.

Now, let me just mention just a few things, Mr. Ryan, because I'm not 
going to try to get excited on this issue today because if I do, I may 
miss something. And I don't want to miss anything because the points 
have to be made.

And I think it's important, Mr. Ryan, as we look at this, and 
Members, Mr. Speaker, that when we look at the work that has been done 
in this Congress this week, sending four key bills to the President for 
his signature, and we really don't have a lot of time to wait and see 
if he's going to do something because when you look at it, you have to 
look at the highway bill, the bill that allows competition for 
important highway and transit projects outlined in the 2005 highway 
bill which will help promote 40,000 new good-paying American jobs in 
transportation and construction. I think it's important that people 
understand that this bill will help stimulate the economy versus slow 
it down. It's important that the President signs this.

When you look at the other pieces of legislation that have passed, 
these are bills that are key bills, ensuring continuing access to 
student loans, the Student Loan Act. This is a critical bill that 
provides students and families with continued uninterrupted access to 
Federal guaranteed student loans. We're talking about not only this 
generation but the next generation and working families being able to 
afford higher education.

Traumatic Brain Injury Act of 2008. It comes down to many of our men 
and women that are in uniform over in Iraq and Afghanistan with 
explosions that take place and the fact that many of them are affected 
by the blasts that take place with these IEDs. They will join some 5.3 
million Americans that are affected here at home by the same thing. And 
the Congress has passed this to provide the kind of funding that's 
needed so they can get the treatment that they deserve. We look forward 
to the President signing it.

But as we look at issues such as energy and fuel, I think it's 
important that we talk about some of the things, Mr. Ryan and Mr. 
Speaker, and I know you mentioned something about this whole gas thing 
because this is hitting home for many of us.

The Speaker, last week, called on the President to suspend the 
purchase of oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve temporarily. When 
you look at this issue, you have to look at it from the standpoint of 
bringing gas down. What the Speaker has asked for would actually bring 
the gas prices down to 5 to 24 cents a gallon. This is a critical first 
step, Mr. Speaker, towards bringing gas prices down so the American 
people can hopefully afford to put gas in their tanks and small 
businesses.

I met with some independent franchise owners of KFC and Taco Bell 
establishments, and they were talking about the cost of food and 
ingredients. One gentleman told us about the fact that his sales are 
down because American people cannot afford to go into, what you may 
call these restaurants where you can get a meal under $10, they can't 
afford to do it as often as they have done it before. Hopefully, the 
checks and the stimulus package will be able to assist. Not only we're 
not talking about going out and buying a meal but to be able to provide 
for their families will help stimulate this economy to help drive down 
the cost of food and the costs that many small businesses need to 
survive.



Now, I think it's also important, Members, that we look at it from 
another standpoint, a standpoint of what farmers are having to look at.

We had a hearing here on Capitol Hill today that talked about food 
versus fuel, and the price of food costs, how are we going to bring a 
balance between biofuels and how we're going to feed the American 
people in the world through our crops that are here. And that's going 
to be an interesting discussion, especially as we start looking at 
shifting from the Middle East and investing in Middle Eastern countries 
as it relates to energy versus the midwest. And we talked about that, 
Mr. Ryan and I talked about that a lot the previous two Congresses.

But when we started looking at legislation and ideas that will give 
American people relief now, I think it's important that we look at the 
letter that the Speaker sent regarding the Strategic Oil Reserve that 
will bring the price of gas down 5 to 24 cents.

I think it's also important to look at measures that we have passed 
here in Congress and that many of our friends on the other side of the 
aisle seem to be standing up in the middle, which we call the ''policy 
door,'' not allowing us to be able to send good pieces of legislation 
to the President without the President knowing that he has enough 
Republicans on this floor to withstand an override.

Now, there were four bills, and I'm going to turn it back over to 
you, Mr. Ryan, which was an OPEC bill that we passed that was dealing 
with--well, a NOPEC bill was dealing with not allowing OPEC oil 
companies to be able to price gouge Americans, and it allowed the 
Justice Department to carry out even more enforcement efforts against 
these, what we call, cartels.

Price gouging, also renewable energy and the Energy Security Act, a 
number of our Republican colleagues on the other side, as you can see 
this piece of paper here, voted ''no.'' And I think it's important, 
especially amongst the leadership, it's important that we no longer 
have that kind of activity going on when the American people are 
looking for some relief and looking for some enforcement.

Something is not right. Something is not clean in the milk. Something 
doesn't smell right when it comes down to why gas continues to go up 
and up and up.

And it's amazing. There's an uproar about gas, and then it will go 
down for a minute, then it will be back up some 20 to 15 cents a gallon 
on top of what it used to cost.

So I think, Mr. Speaker and Members, we need to pay very close 
attention to what is happening on this energy issue but also pay 
attention to what is getting done. And we're doing a lot here. We've 
seen a lot.

We've sent a lot of good legislation to the President. We hope the 
President will sign the legislation versus vetoing to make a point that 
is pointless when it comes down to the forward progress of the American 
people.