---
---

# STAFF SERGEANT OMER ``O.T.'' HAWKINS POST OFFICE
## `d1a1a740c9c99ff92e7abb9354f6e05d`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 21 May 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
might consume.

As a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform, I'm pleased to join my colleague in the consideration of H.R. 
2078, which names the postal facility in Cherry Fork, Ohio, after Omer 
T. ''O.T.'' Hawkins.

H.R. 2078 was introduced by Representative Jean Schmidt on April 30, 
2007, and was reported from the Oversight Committee on May 1, 2007, by 
voice vote. This measure, which has been cosponsored by 16 Members, has 
the support of the entire Ohio congressional delegation.

Staff Sergeant Omer T., better known as ''O.T.,'' Hawkins, died on 
Thursday, October 14, 2004, in Ar Ramadi, Iraq, when his convoy was hit 
by a roadside bomb. He was assigned to the 44th Engineer Battalion 
based in Camp Howze, Korea. His Army colleagues have described him as 
''a tremendous warrior coupled with compassion'' and said that ''his 
skill as a superb non-commissioned officer who could influence any 
soldier defined his life and the principles he defended.''

Staff Sergeant Hawkins graduated from North Adams High School on a 
Friday in 1991, and that following Monday he enlisted in the Army. Miss 
Cherry Frederick, his sister, said, and I quote, ''The only thing that 
he ever wanted to do was go into the military.'' Family and friends 
will forever remember Staff Sergeant Hawkins' dedication and service to 
his country.

Mr. Speaker, I commend my colleague, Representative Schmidt from 
Ohio, for introducing this legislation. I urge swift passage of this 
bill.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.