# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `d1a1d6f724e4ef5ce4ddb53e71266c9f`
`Mr. TIM MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. TIM MURPHY of Pennsylvania. I thank the ranking member for 
yielding.

One of the amendments in there I'd like to talk about here.

According to a RAND study, there are more than several hundred 
thousand potential cases of post-traumatic stress disorder in our 
veterans from operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and suicide rates 
among them are also higher than that of the general population. The 
Department of Defense has rightly doubled its budget for treatment and 
research of PTSD and traumatic brain injury and set higher goals for 
the number of behavior health providers. And although care has also 
been supplemented through TRICARE and contract providers, the military 
remains understaffed to meet the needs.

Combat veterans should not be placed on a waiting list, especially 
dealing with mental health problems and suicide. And servicemembers who 
need care can only get care if they are near care. Now, a huge 
investment has been made into many of the great clinicians in medical 
services at the dawn of their careers. Stipends, bonuses, educational 
expenses are paid in hopes we can recruit and retain them for 20 or 30 
years, although many do not remain that long. Sometimes we discourage 
those from signing up later in their careers who, because of their age, 
they can't remain for 20 years or so. Yet there are those who are at 
the peak of their career who we could look to not only to fill the 
immediate needs with highly skilled and ready-trained experiences, but 
to provide mentorship and training to those starting out in their 
medical and behavioral medicine careers.

This amendment simply calls upon the Surgeons General of the Army, 
Navy, and Air Force to report on other incentives that can be offered 
to recruit and retain those with 20 or more years of nonmilitary 
clinical experience to serve in active or reserve duty. This might 
include, but is not limited to, offering a 10-year retirement instead 
of the traditional 20- or 30-year retirement.

I might add that we are very proud of our servicemen and -women and 
want to make it very clear that all of us in Congress--and I know all 
the military--are absolutely dedicated to making sure that we take care 
of all of their wounds, whether they are visible or invisible wounds of 
war. We are proud of their service, and we will continue to support 
them. And along those lines, I hope my colleagues will also support 
this amendment.