---
---

# None
## `d1b3eb4f78cdd2c4af99129935ea72c0`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Nothing wrong with that at all.

And I also believe, Mr. Ryan, that through the hard work of not only 
the staff here that provide us with not only the information that we 
use to fight on behalf of the American people, but also when we go back 
to our districts, what we hear from our constituents, we give them 
voice, we are them. We are representatives of the various parts of the 
country that we're from, and it's important that we bring that level of 
frustration here.

Speaking of small business men and women, they own a pick-up truck or 
an SUV, we hear from them, Congressman, it cost me $105 to fill my 
truck up. And they're still trying to sell their products for the same 
price, just a little bit more. Everything is going up, up, up, and 
they're getting priced out. And I think it's important, even from my 
neck of the woods in Florida, where you have bagel shops, some of them 
have gone so high up on bagels because of the cost and folks can't 
afford them.

So when you look at it, this is a major, major issue and every 
American is being touched by it, especially for those middle class 
families and for those individuals that are what we call our working 
poor. And so, Mr. Ryan, every day we come to the floor I think it's 
important we give light to that.

I also want to give the numbers on Iraq, as I always do. As of today, 
May 1, in Iraq, the total deaths are 4,064. The total number wounded in 
action and returned to duty, 16,567. And total number wounded in action 
not returning to duty is 13,344. Mr. Ryan, you know, every time I come 
to the floor I like to read that into the Record so that Members will 
understand our responsibility of trying to bring the super majority of 
our men and women home.

One last point, Mr. Ryan. I think that when we look at this issue 
called public service, and I'm speaking to all of the Members, we have 
to look at it from the standpoint that we're only here for a short 
period of time. Less than 11,000 Americans have actually had an 
opportunity to serve in this U.S. Congress. And every day Members 
should take the responsibility to treat it as though it is their last 
day to serve and not put something off for another day or another week 
or another month, because there are people out there that are counting 
on us and depending on us, as it relates to bringing about health care 
to their children, bringing down these fuel costs and energy costs, and 
also making sure that we're able to stimulate this economy in the right 
way.

So with that, I would yield back to Mr. Ryan.