---
---

# None
## `d1c9da0fdc44d27a0c903f28595b9d71`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mr. Ryan. Mr. Ryan, you gave one 
great floor speech when you came down and said these are the same 
people who told us we will be greeted as liberators. These are the same 
people who told us oil revenues will be used to pay for the war. These 
are the same people who told us this will be a sweeping mission. These 
are the same people that told us there were weapons of mass 
destruction. These are the same people that told us there was a 
connection between Saddam Hussein and al Qaeda. These are the same 
people that went on and on and on. You can go on YouTube and watch it. 
I remembered and watched it, and I thought it was one of your better 
speeches on the floor. I will reserve comment on how many you have 
made, but that is one of the better ones.

Mr. Ryan, it is very unfortunate that right now we are breeding 
terrorists, people that will dislike the United States of America for 
the rest of their lives. That wasn't our mission in Iraq, and that is 
the reason why, before the election, a majority of Democrats were 
saying, and some Republicans were saying, that we should redeploy our 
troops to the peripheral and not do the street patrols in Iraq.

How are we losing our troops? Going door to door, kicking in doors, 
riding down the streets. IEDs are blowing up and killing many of our 
men and women. They are not being killed in the training missions. I 
haven't heard one casualty, maybe there has been one, but I haven't 
heard of one casualty of any of our men and women training Iraqi troops 
in how to protect their country and how to protect their own streets.

Case in point, let me paint this picture because I think it is 
important as we debate this emergency supplemental. When you look at 
the fact that the U.S. troops with the flag on their shoulder kicking 
the door searching for the three that were missing, going door to door, 
those children, that son, that grandfather, that mother will say that 
the United States kicked my door in. How do we get to this point, I am 
innocent and we are laying on the floor at 2 a.m. with semiautomatic 
weapons pointed at my family? Those individuals end up listening to the 
rhetoric of radical terrorist groups that are saying, they are not here 
for you, they are here to terrorize your family.

That is why we have to get out of the position of this door-to-door 
and street-to-street combat in Iraq when the Iraqis themselves should 
be carrying out that mission. It is so very, very important.

Like I said, six emergency supplementals, half a trillion dollars of


blank checks to this administration; no more. That is the reason why we 
are having benchmarks. That is why the White House has to come here and 
report to Congress.

I heard one of the Republican Members say we are supposed to receive 
reports. Well, that is a revelation. Here we are in charge of the 
Federal purse. We are responsible. We are the board members, if you 
want to put it that way, over the U.S. Treasury, and all of a sudden 
now many of our Republican Members are saying, yes, we are supposed to 
receive reports.

That should have been happening from the beginning. Maybe then the 
death toll wouldn't be what it is, and maybe we may have more coalition 
partners in this effort if it was run right from the beginning versus 
send us a blank check and don't ask any questions.

So the President can say what he wants to say. Memorial Day is coming 
up. We have men and women who have laid down and sacrificed. Many of 
them have paid the ultimate sacrifice. Many of the men and women that 
fought with them remember those who paid the ultimate sacrifice, and 
still we are here playing games with the democracy that they allow us 
to celebrate today, under what we may call kingdom politics of the 
President feeling that you shouldn't ask any questions; I trust my 
advisors, and I trust the generals in the field.

Well, I trust the generals in the field, too. And I have a level of 
trust for the administration, but the track record doesn't support 
don't ask any questions; we don't need any strings attached; you are 
trying to take my power away. We are not trying to take power away, we 
are just trying to make sure that the Federal tax dollar is spent in an 
appropriate way and we save as many American lives as possible.

Ms. Wasserman Schultz, no one, Democrat or Republican, should 
apologize for what is going on right now in Washington, DC. I think 
many of our friends who believe we should be out of Iraq tomorrow, we 
should send every plane we can possibly send, take our troops out, 
redeploy our troops and just leave it as is, there is a process in 
doing that. We are going through that process right now. A lot of it is 
very painful.

Some say, why are you giving the President another opportunity to 
continue this war and continue to fight this war? Haven't you learned 
over the last 5 years that the strategy they are using is a combat 
strategy, not a diplomatic strategy, not making sure there are 
benchmarks on the Iraqi Government, and they had that opportunity.

I encourage, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, when we do get a bill on the 
floor, we do have a number of Republicans voting on behalf of this next 
supplemental, and a number of Democrats voting on behalf of the 
supplemental. And those that feel the war should end tomorrow should 
understand that this is a major accomplishment in the effort in taking 
away what the President has had for the last 5 years: a blank check, do 
as you want to do, Donald Rumsfeld and all of them.

As Mr. Ryan says, as I close on this point, the real issue here is 
the truth will surface. Some of it has already surfaced, and a lot of 
it will continue to surface as we learn more about what the Congress 
was not told and as we learn more about what we were told incorrectly. 
And as Americans reflect back on this time, they will see some of the 
worst misinformation and secrecy at a time of war and a time of 
economic strain on this country.

We have borrowed more from foreign nations than we have ever borrowed 
in the history of the Republic; and still, we have Members standing 
here asking what is wrong. Well, the reason we are in the majority on 
this side of the aisle, we are very busy leading on behalf of the 
American people, is a perfect example of what is wrong.

The American people know what is going on. I am not talking about a 
bunch of proud Democrats. I am talking about Independents and 
Republicans and those who have never voted before in their life, they 
decided to get involved and vote. If this was just about politics, we 
would just go home or be in our offices doing the things we need to do 
for tomorrow, and let the Democratic majority get bigger and bigger 
because we would lead the Republicans to doing and saying what they 
have been doing all along.

But this is bigger than politics. This is about our democracy. This 
is about our finances here in the country, and this is about saving 
U.S. lives that are in harm's way right now when we can work out a 
better plan and force the Iraqi Government to take the responsibility 
of their streets, take the responsibility of their patrols, and make 
sure that they meet benchmarks just like every U.S. mayor has to meet 
with Federal dollars, just like every U.S. Governor has to meet when 
they are spending Federal dollars. Just like every U.S. agency should 
be accountable to the taxpayer dollars, the Iraqi Government and those 
in the Iraqi Government should be just as accountable and greater with 
the U.S. taxpayer dollars.

I don't want to get all emotional, like Mr. Ryan said, but I can't 
help but do it when I think about Memorial Day coming up and when I 
think about the veterans' benefits that we have in the emergency 
supplemental.

We have some folks saying we shouldn't have any domestic spending in 
here, and we have troops coming back and still waiting a long time to 
get their service. It was the Democrats that put forth the dollars to 
make sure that Walter Reed was repaired. That is also in this emergency 
supplemental. We will talk a little more about that as we move along.


I know we are going to talk about gas prices in the time left. Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz, I think we should commend every American for being 
focused on this issue of Iraq and encourage a discourse.

I was out behind the Chamber today on the balcony, and I noticed a 
person out there on a bullhorn saying, ''Stop the war.'' I wasn't 
bothered by that because the men and women that we are going to 
celebrate on Monday fought for that lady to be out there saying what 
she was saying.