---
---

# DOING THE SENATE'S BUSINESS
## `d1cc60d1e17b87c1a9ed5215067d9470`
`Mr. BUNNING — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. BUNNING. First of all, I hope the American people are watching 
the debate and paying close attention to it. This debate is not just an 
important lesson in civics and civility, it is a debate that goes back 
to the days of our Founding Fathers. The Founding Fathers created the 
Senate to be a body of unlimited debate. This institution was created 
to be a deliberative body. It was not created for speed or for quick 
action.

I would like to remind my friend, the majority leader, whom I wish 
were on the floor, that the Senate is not the House of Representatives. 
The majority leader and I both served in the House of Representatives. 
Unlike the House, however, we do not have a rules committee in the 
Senate that sets the rules for floor debate. Any Senator can come to 
the floor seeking recognition to speak and offer amendments. In the 
House, the majority can roll the minority through the Rules Committee. 
This cannot be done in the Senate. The minority party cannot be 
ignored. Yet our friends on the other side of the aisle are trying to 
dictate the terms not only of the debate on Iraq and the resolutions 
concerning them, they are telling 49 Republicans in the Senate how 
business will be conducted in the Senate.

I want to be very clear that I would vote in opposition to the Warner 
resolution. Nonbinding resolutions that question military decisions 
made by our Commander in Chief and top military generals are not in the 
best interests of our Nation. But I do support the right of Senator 
Warner to get an up-or-down vote on his resolution, even though I would 
oppose it.

Earlier this week, we had a vote to invoke cloture on the motion to 
proceed with the Warner resolution. Forty-seven Republicans voted 
against the motion because we believe we should have more debate, not 
less, and the ability to offer other resolutions. Yet many of my 
friends on the other side of the aisle accuse my Republican colleagues 
of not wanting to debate this issue and not wanting to vote on the 
Warner resolution. And, not surprisingly, the media is regurgitating 
the talking points from the other side of the aisle. But nothing could 
be further from the truth.

Senator Warner, the author of the resolution favored overwhelmingly 
by the Democrats, voted against invoking cloture on his own resolution 
because he believes in Republicans keeping their rights as Senators. We 
want a fair debate, not a one-sided conversation. We are asking for 
more debate, not less, like many on the other side of the aisle 
suggest.

Our request is a simple one. If we are going to vote on the Warner 
resolution, those of us who oppose this resolution should at least be 
allowed to offer our own resolution, and the senior Senator from New 
Hampshire offered his resolution concerning funding for the war in 
Iraq. Some have said his resolution is incorporated in the Warner 
resolution, but they are missing two key points. The Gregg resolution 
expresses our full support of our troops and not support that is just 
cloaked behind other language that criticizes their mission.

My friend, my good friend, General Petraeus, whom the Senate 
unanimously confirmed, said in his confirmation hearing that a 
resolution condemning the President's new Iraq strategy would have a 
detrimental effect on troop morale. It must be our top priority to 
assure American troops that we will not cut off their funding 
midmission. We already are cutting some of their funds, as seen in this 
year's continuing resolution.


I find it ironic that some of the same Senators who have been on the 
Senate


floor assuring their full support for the troops are the same 
individuals who are cutting their funding behind closed doors. I am 
talking about the funding for the Base Realignment and Construction 
Program. This is a program that, by law, we have to complete in 6 
years. Yet my friends across the aisle have decided not to fund this 
program because it is not a priority.

Well, it is a priority for me. By doing this, they will cause a delay 
for up to 1 year for military base construction. Because of this, and I 
ask my good friend, the Senator from Texas, what happens to the 12,000 
troops that will not be able to be redeployed back home from Iraq or 
from Germany or from around the world?