# None
## `d1cdb54ae4d1ed37fd3af94e6de67771`
`Mr. BYRD â€” 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, in 1771, Samuel Adams observed:




 The liberties of our country, the freedom of our civil 


 Constitution, are worth defending at all hazards; and it is 


 our duty to defend them against all attacks. We have received 


 them as a fair inheritance from our worthy ancestors; they 


 purchased them for us with toil and danger and expense of 


 treasure and blood, and transmitted them to us with care and 


 diligence. It will bring an everlasting mark of infamy on the 


 present generation, enlightened as it is, if we should suffer 


 them to be wrested from us by violence without a struggle, or 


 to be cheated out of them by the artifices of false and 


 designing men.


Under the artifice of defending our nation from terrorists, President 
Bush would have Congress surrender our liberties and the freedom of our 
civil Constitution. This bill, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance, 
FISA, Amendments Act of 2008, is supposed to correct unconstitutional 
authorities contained in last year's ''Protect America Act'' that 
permitted widescale warrantless Government surveillance of innocent 
Americans' private international communications, much of it facilitated 
by telecommunications companies in a manner that is under court review. 
However, this bill undercuts that judicial review and, in effect, 
grants complete retroactive immunity to those companies for anything 
illegal they might have done for the last 6 years. That provision 
undermines the Constitution's fourth amendment protections.

This bill continues Government surveillance of communications coming 
into and out of the United States without full fourth amendment 
protections. Remember the fourth amendment? It reads:




 The right of the people to be secure in their persons, 


 houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches 


 and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall 


 issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or 


 affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be 


 searched, and the persons or things to be seized.


The President would have you believe that this bill would provide 
additional powers to prevent another 9/11. But 9/11 did not happen for 
want of these powers. It was not a failure of Government to monitor 
private communications. Rather, it was a failure of the Government to 
monitor the reports of the FBI and of the intelligence community. It 
happened because the administration did not take seriously reports 
suggesting that what actually happened was being planned by al-Qaida. 
Just as he exploited 9/11 to lead us to war in Iraq, President Bush now 
wants to exploit his failures to attack our fundamental freedoms--
freedoms that formed the foundations of this Nation.

There is no doubt that certain accommodations need to be made to 
address advances in technology. However, this bill goes too far. If the 
Government can collect all communications coming into or out of the 
United States, using powerful computers to shop among them without 
probable cause that the person making or receiving the communication is 
involved in anything illegal, and without any court providing a check 
upon the abuse of that power, that does not meet my ''reasonable 
man's'' definition of fourth amendment compliance. And that is not the 
''fair inheritance'' won for us by our Founders at such a great price.