---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SENATORS
## `d1d780cf188f8c158e61a0093c0497d9`
`Mr. ENZI — 20 November 2008`

---


Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I appreciate having this opportunity to wish 
Larry Craig all the best as he retires and returns home to his beloved 
Idaho. I have enjoyed having a chance to work with him on issues of 
concern to the people of our States. He has been an important part of 
the work we have done on many of the issues that have come to the floor 
of the Senate and he will be difficult to replace.

Ever since he first arrived in the Senate, Larry has been a champion 
for the West and a strong and powerful voice on the issues that concern 
the people of Wyoming and Idaho. His dedication to making his home 
State a better place to live and his determination to make a difference 
in the Nation through his service in the Senate has made him a force to 
be reckoned with for many years.

Larry has long Idaho roots that date back to his family's arrival in 
Idaho more than a century ago. He was born on the family ranch that his 
grandfather had homesteaded back in 1899. The ranch has been the proud 
home of the Craig family ever since.

Sometime during the days when Larry was a young man growing up in 
Idaho, he was bitten by the political bug. It got him started on the 
path toward what would be a career of public service. Then, in 1974, 
Larry was elected to the Idaho State Senate. It set him on a path that 
would take him to the United States Senate.

Because of his background as a rancher and a farmer, Larry knows the 
importance of the land and the need for us to be good stewards of all 
the resources under our control. After all, as we have heard so very 
often, when it comes to the land, they aren't making any more of it. 
That is why Larry has always been determined to ensure that Idaho's 
natural treasures were well taken care of. It is not an exaggeration to 
say that Larry has been the guardian at the gate to ensure the Federal 
Government didn't overstep its boundaries and overregulate the land in 
Idaho during his watch.

His commitment to the land and to the people of Idaho who rely on it 
for their livelihood particularly showed itself during his service on 
the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. He took full advantage of 
the opportunity to work against any effort that would adversely affect 
the ability of the people of Idaho to make good use of their State's 
land. Also on his agenda was the Endangered Species Act and the 
problems that had come with its application. It was a fight Larry was 
determined to win and he did more than just express his concern. He 
rolled up his sleeves and got to work. The new law he helped to write 
is not only more effective, but it is also designed to minimize its 
impact on property rights, employment and our State and local 
economies.

In the years to come I will most remember Larry for his ability to 
present his case with power and emotion whenever he would speak in 
committee or on the floor. Larry's speaking and his debating skills are 
second to none. He has been called one of the most influential of all 
the western Senators and his conservative style has proven to be one of 
his greatest strengths.

Larry is probably best known for his work on immigration and his 
support for the ability of seasonal workers to come to the United 
States to work on our farms. He knows the importance of developing 
solutions to tough problems like immigration that do not hurt State 
economies or make life harder for our family farms and ranches.

The habits that he learned on the family ranch have been with him his 
entire life and that is why you will usually find him hard at work in 
his garden. It is his favorite activity when he is away from his office 
and it is one he can share with his grandchildren. As the grandfather 
of three children myself, I can identify with his interest and the time 
he sets aside to be with his eight grandchildren.

Speaking of his favorite hobby, he once said, ''My wife knows she's 
not a golf widow or a skiing or a hunting widow. She's a gardening 
widow.'' Larry is also a tremendous artist. His ''works'' are widely 
prized and collected.

Larry, I will be sorry to see you and Suzanne leave, saddlebags 
flapping in the wind as you ride off into the sunset. Now there will be 
time for all the things you have been putting off for some day, for now 
there will be plenty of some days for you to share with Suzanne. Diana 
and I wish you all the best in whatever you choose to do in the coming 
years. As we have found, the end of one great adventure is only the 
beginning of the next. So it will be for you. Good luck and God bless.
















 pete domenici


Mr. President, it is always a bittersweet moment in time for me when 
we come to the close of a session of Congress. As the clock counts down 
the final hours of our legislative activities, it also signals the day 
when several of our colleagues will be retiring and ending their 
service in the United States Senate. When the current session ends, one 
of my good friends and great allies in the Senate will be returning 
home to his beloved New Mexico. He is Senator Pete Domenici and I know 
we will all miss him and his powerful presence in the Senate.

In the months to come, Pete may no longer be serving with us, but he 
will not be forgotten. He has left his mark on the Senate and on us all 
in too many ways for us not to remember him and how hard he has been 
working for the people of New Mexico, the West, and the Nation over the 
years. Every day he came to the Senate he was focused on what he could 
do today to make our tomorrows better for us all. The leadership he 
provided on so many issues will be very difficult to replace.

Pete began his career right out of college when he was deemed to be a 
good enough pitcher to be signed by a Brooklyn Dodgers farm team. It 
was a good life, but it wasn't the one for Pete. He decided after the 
season was over that baseball wasn't what he wanted to do and so he 
decided instead to do a different kind of pitching--to the people of 
the city he lived in. That pitch helped launch him on his true life's 
work--serving the people of his State and helping to make New Mexico a 
better place to live.

When Pete decided to get involved in politics his friends told him he 
was


making a big mistake. They warned him that it was a tough way to make a 
living and that it would be a rough life. Politics is a harsh affair, 
they told him, and they warned him that people would attack him and his 
reputation. They wondered why a guy who had such great gifts wanted to 
take on what would be a very difficult challenge.

We are very fortunate that Pete didn't take their advice. Instead, he 
decided to run for the Senate and to bring his case to the people. To 
no one's surprise they liked what they heard and Pete came to 
Washington after the 1972 elections. They have been sending him back 
here with enthusiasm ever since.

It is not an easy thing to sum up a career in the Senate that has 
spanned four decades. That is the mark of an individual who has dared 
to try to achieve great things--and succeeded. He came to the Senate 
with a great awareness of what needed to be done and with a combination 
of his own brand of style and substance he has been part of a great 
effort to make those goals a reality.

Looking over his record in the Senate, it shows that Pete has been a 
key player in our work to achieve energy independence. Together with 
his New Mexico colleague, Jeff Bingaman, Pete worked to bring a 
national energy bill that seemed doomed to be stalled forever to the 
floor for a vote and on to the President's desk for his signature. Pete 
was always willing to work with any Member, no matter their place on 
the political spectrum, if it meant making progress on a key issue. 
That is why I would sum up Pete's career in one word--success. Pete has 
a knack of finding a way to make things happen and we have all 
benefited from his abilities.

For my part, I also worked with him on the Mental Health Parity bill. 
For too long the provisions of our health care system provided 
unequally for physical health and mental health problems. Pete knew 
that was unfair, and he was determined to do something about it. 
Working together with me and the chairman of the Senate Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, Senator Edward Kennedy, Pete was 
able to help bring a bill to the floor that required health insurance 
plans that offer mental health coverage to provide it on an equal level 
with that afforded to physical illnesses. It is a major change in 
health care coverage that will make life better for millions and 
millions of Americans. It is a major accomplishment and it will serve 
as a special part of his legacy of achievements in the Senate.

In the months to come we will also miss Pete's leadership and his 
wise counsel as we continue to work on the economic problems facing the 
Nation. Pete is an expert on budget issues and he has served as our 
Budget Committee chairman. As I have served alongside him over the 
years, I have appreciated having the opportunity to observe him in 
action and work with him on measures of concern to us both. He has been 
a tireless worker in the effort to bring the Nation's expense account 
to a biennial budget. He has also fought long and hard to try to put a 
rein on runaway Federal spending. He was willing to do whatever was 
necessary to reach an agreement that would balance the budget. He got 
that done by once again working with Members of both sides of the aisle 
and a Democrat administration. That was just like him. If there was a 
way to get something done, Pete usually found it, and the new way he 
helped develop usually got the bill passed and signed into law.

For me and for most of us, what I will most remember is Pete's 
personality and his great warmth. He is a genuine good guy who is very 
down to Earth. He is a gentle man and a gentleman in every sense of the 
word. He is a man of great faith who believes that public service is 
the rent we pay for the space we occupy on God's green Earth. Simply 
put, he is the kind of person you would want to have for a friend. That 
is why so many of us treasure his friendship. He is loyal and close to 
other Members and to all his staff. He treats his staff like Members of 
his extended family and not like staff. I think that is why they work 
so hard for him. They love him like a father because he treats them, as 
he treats everyone he knows, with kindness and respect.

I would be remiss if I didn't mention his wife, Nancy. She has been a 
pillar of strength and a source of great support and encouragement to 
him in his life. I like to say that Pete and I both overmarried. She 
has been an essential member of his team since they met and I know he 
would say that whatever success has come to him in his life he owes in 
great degree to her influence. She is his greatest friend, his wisest 
counselor and his closest confidante. Together they have done a 
tremendous job for the people of New Mexico and the influence they have 
had on it can be seen from one corner of the State to the other. She 
has been a partner in the fight for mental health parity.

The story is told that when Pete was accepted into law school his 
father made him a deal. I will finance your law school education, he 
told him, but only if you agree to my terms. If you do well, I will be 
proud to pay your way. If you bring home an ''F'' I will expect to be 
repaid.

Well, my friend, as you return home, your father would be very proud 
of the report card you will take with you from the Senate and from the 
people of New Mexico. You have done a great job and everything you have 
done in your life and in your career you have done very well. You take 
with us our great praise and an ''A'' from us all for effort, for the 
work you have done and for the results you have achieved. God bless and 
be with you, Pete and Nancy. I know we will all miss you and think of 
you often. Make sure you leave your number with us for I know we will 
be reaching out to you for your advice and thoughtful suggestions in 
the days to come. That is one thing that will never change.

















John Warner


Mr. President, I appreciate having this opportunity to join with my 
colleagues in wishing John Warner all the best as he retires from the 
United States Senate after 30 years of service to the people of 
Virginia. John has had a long and distinguished career and he will be 
greatly missed.

Like so many of us, John's early years had a great influence on his 
life and helped to shape his character and mold his destiny. John's 
father was a surgeon and he saw to it that John's education began at an 
early age and included samples of just about everything there was to 
learn. John was soon picking up on a course of study that included 
math, music, science, Latin and much, much more.

During those early years, John felt the call to serve his country, so 
he joined the Navy when he was 17 years old so he could be part of our 
Nation's heroic effort in World War II. He then joined the Marines in 
1950 to be part of our forces fighting the Korean war.

John's service in our Armed Forces and his tenure as our Secretary of 
the Navy has made him one of the Senate's strongest and most 
knowledgeable voices on the use of our Nation's military. He has been 
one of the Congress' most respected and most sought after experts on 
our actions in Iraq, the war against terrorism, and our efforts in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. His experience has also made him a leader in the 
Senate's oversight on defense spending.

Through the years, John has been an important part of the debate on 
global warming. His concern about the issue and the future of our 
Nation led him to ask us for our good ideas and common sense proposals, 
regardless of our party affiliation, in an effort to reach a consensus 
on the issue that would ultimately lead us to a workable solution.

There are two important reasons why John has been such a tireless 
worker on this and other similar issues. John shares my love of the 
great outdoors and all that it has to offer. He enjoys taking time from 
his busy schedule to hunt and fish with his grandchildren. He remembers 
the days he spent with his father taking part in those great activities 
and he wants to give his grandchildren the same gift. So do I. I think 
that shows John Warner has a streak of Wyoming in him and has fished 
there.

In the years that I have served with John I have always been 
impressed with his unique style and his ability to present his 
positions on the issues with great power and force. John has always 
been one to reach out to members on both sides of the aisle, and his 
ability to bring us together on the issues has helped us to develop 
answers to problems that seemed to elude us. I don't


think anyone has a better grasp of the importance of finding a third 
way to do things than John. He knows that there are always three ways 
of beginning our work on the issues. The first two lead to gridlock as 
they are the extreme positions on the issue. The third way is closer to 
the middle and has elements in it that everyone can agree on. That is 
usually what gets things done.

That has always been John's measure of success. He has never been one 
who was concerned about making points, he has always been interested in 
making progress.

John will always be remembered for the leadership he brought to the 
Senate on a number of issues that concerned him. As he worked on them 
all he showed his independence and his willingness to consider all 
viewpoints to find the one that he thought stood the best chance of 
succeeding, on the floor and in the field. John would be an excellent 
diplomat because he knows how to disagree without being disagreeable. 
He has forged good working relationships with us all and that is why he 
has so many friends in the Senate.

John has been a great public servant and his career shows the results 
he has been able to achieve in every area of his life. I am proud of 
his service in the Senate on behalf of the people of Virginia, his 
service in our Armed Forces, and especially, I am proud to call him my 
friend.

It is always difficult at the end of the session to say goodbye to 
our colleagues who are retiring. We have worked together for so many 
years that we will miss their thoughtful suggestions, their well chosen 
words and their commitment to the issues we have worked on together.

For John, the good part of goodbye is the knowledge that we will meet 
again and, I am sure, we will work together again, laugh again, and 
continue to enjoy all that life has to offer again. This is not a time 
to say goodbye, just a reminder to be well until we see each other 
again.

Diana joins in sending our best wishes to you, John and to Jeanne. 
You deserve nothing but the best life has to offer and you shall have 
it. I look forward to the days ahead and a time when we can get out our 
fishing poles and explore some of Virginia's best rivers and streams. 
Good luck and God bless.

















Chuck Hagel


Mr. President, soon the last remaining items of business on the 
legislative calendar will be taken up and the current session of 
Congress will draw to a close. When it does, several of our colleagues 
will be returning home and leaving public service. We will miss them, 
their good ideas and the touch of creativity they brought to our work 
in the Senate during their years of service to the people of their home 
States.

When I am asked about the members with whom I have had the privilege 
to serve during my Senate career, Chuck Hagel will certainly come to 
mind. I don't think anyone has a more interesting life story to tell 
than Chuck and certainly few have achieved the level of success he has 
been able to attain in his public life and in the business world.

Chuck grew up in a small Nebraska town where he learned the value of 
a day's work at an earlier than usual age. Chuck found his first job 
when he was only nine and he's been hard at work ever since. When he 
lost his father at the age of 16 it fell to him, as the oldest child, 
to help raise the younger ones of his family.

That was also about the time that Chuck made his first run for 
office. When he was in high school he decided to run for Student 
Council President. He knew he would have to do something different in 
his campaign to separate himself from the others who were running, so 
he tied a chicken to the hood of his car and drove around the school 
announcing the reasons why he was in the race. No one had ever seen 
anything quite like that before and he won quite easily I am sure.

After his high school years, Chuck heard the call to serve his 
country and he and his brother joined the Army and served in Vietnam. 
He was seriously wounded twice and received two Purple Hearts during 
his military service. During one of his missions, he and his brother 
were trapped in their armored personnel carrier when an enemy mine 
exploded beneath them. Chuck pulled his unconscious brother to safety 
and probably saved his life. It took 10 years for him to fully heal 
from the effects of the injuries he suffered that day.

When he graduated from the University of Nebraska he began his 
political career in earnest. He joined the staff of a Republican 
congressman from Nebraska and impressed him and his staff so much that 
he steadily rose in responsibility to be his top aide.

Equally impressive has been Chuck's success as a businessman. He sold 
almost all he had to begin a cellular phone company with two partners. 
His hard work and determination to succeed paid off and his investment 
was multiplied many times over.

That kind of success would have been enough for most people, but not 
for Chuck. Chuck felt the call to bigger things and he set his sights 
on going to Washington to make life a little better for the people back 
home in Nebraska.

That was his platform when Chuck ran for the Senate in 1996. The 
experts thought he was a long shot and a lot of people said he didn't 
stand a chance. Once again, Chuck defied the odds and relied on the 
judgment of the people of Nebraska instead of the predictions of the 
experts. The people of Nebraska knew a good thing when they saw it and 
Chuck was sent to the Senate to represent them.

Chuck and I were part of the same freshman class and when we arrived 
we both looked forward to being named to the committees on which we 
would serve so we could make a difference for our States and the 
Nation. Chuck was very pleased and proud when Senator Lugar offered him 
an invitation to join the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

Chuck took full advantage of the opportunity and made it the focus of 
his efforts in the Senate. He made a point of visiting other countries 
and meeting with foreign leaders to increase his expertise on foreign 
policy. Working closely with Senator Lugar and Senator Biden, he has 
been a voice on the committee that is sought after for his perspective 
on the issues that involve our relations with other countries.

Over the years I have enjoyed serving with Chuck and working with him 
on two of his top priorities, cutting Federal spending and making our 
tax system more workable and more responsive to the needs of our 
national economy. He can be very proud of all he has achieved, 
especially his support of fast track authority so the President could 
negotiate trade deals that cannot be changed by the Congress. His work 
in the area of international trade has made a great difference 
throughout the United States and helped improve our relationship with 
our trading partners.

Now Chuck's Washington years are coming to a close and he will be 
moving on together with Lilibet to something new and different in their 
lives. Diana and I have always found that when one great adventure ends 
another one takes its place. That is our wish for you. Whatever the 
future holds for you and Lilibet we wish you all the best. The only 
good part about saying goodbye is the knowledge that you will keep in 
touch with us and continue to offer your good advice and the unique 
brand of common sense that you learned from your service in Washington, 
your success in your business, and your years growing up in Nebraska, 
Wyoming's neighbor to the East.
