---
---

# SUPPORTING MENTAL HEALTH MONTH
## `d1dd742f253374a90d9fb1691bde93ce`
`Mrs. NAPOLITANO — 3 June 2009`

---


Mrs. NAPOLITANO. I thank the gentlewoman from California.

I certainly am very grateful that this has been put on the agenda, 
and I'd certainly like to thank Chair Waxman and Ranking Member Barton 
of the Energy and Commerce Committee for promoting this resolution.

Every year we recognize in the United States May as the National 
Mental Health Month. Now today with House Resolution 437 we do so with 
great joy and sometimes with great trepidation. Mental health is an 
important issue that deserves attention year round. For too long 
there's been an associated stigma with mental health. You don't want to 
talk about it. You don't want to hear it. You don't want to see it. But 
we must continue to work to remove the stigma, the barrier to 
knowledge, to make more awareness available and increase access to 
mental health services both to our military and also to our young men 
and women, whether it's at the schools, at the universities, in the 
different areas where it's more prevalent. We have found that early 
detection, intervention and assistance is very key to being able to 
have productive citizens in this area. Our U.S. Surgeon General has 
estimated that over 57 million Americans suffer from mental illness, 
and it affects everybody. It crosses boundaries. It does not rise to 
gender or political parties. It is affecting everybody. It does not 
discriminate.

One in five children in the United States has a mental disorder. This 
is according to the U.S. Surgeon General's report. And fewer than 20 
percent of these children receive the mental health services they 
desperately need.



Seventy to ninety percent of those treated do experience reduction of 
symptoms. So we know treatment is very effective. We just know that we 
don't have sufficient funding to allow for that treatment to be made 
available to everybody that needs it. And based on the Surgeon 
General's report, suicide is the third leading cause of death of young 
people ages 10 to 24. We are losing a lot of youngsters who will not 
have an opportunity to provide us with their knowledge, expertise and 
support in the future years of America.

Mental illness also disproportionately affects minorities. In 1999, a 
study done called ''The State of Hispanic Girls in the United States'' 
said one in three was reported considering suicide in ages 9 to 11. 
Currently the Hispanic rate for young girls remains the highest. 
Although it has been lowered somewhat, it still remains the highest 
percentage in the United States of attempted suicides.

And a new study just recently revealed that fifth-graders who believe 
they have experienced racial discrimination are at increased risk for 
depression, attention deficit disorder and other mental health 
problems. And unfortunately, Hispanics are three times more likely to 
have those symptoms. And blacks, African Americans, are twice as likely 
to be affected by these symptoms.

Then we go into our troops, our soldiers, our returning veterans. 
More than one in five Iraq and Afghanistan veterans will suffer from 
mental health conditions, whether it is PTSD, depression, even 
traumatic brain injury. There is increased news coverage on this. It 
happens every day. We hear and we see the reports about the effect it 
has on some of our men and women who have gone and served two, three, 
four and sometimes as many as five deployments. We continue to bring 
that to the forefront because we owe those servicemen and women the 
ability to be able to assimilate back into society and help them by 
delivering mental health services that they will desperately need not 1 
month, not 5 months, maybe not years, but maybe somewhere along the 
line they are going to be able to have somebody help them out.

We must educate ourselves. We must educate our families. We must 
educate our loved ones what may happen to a returning veteran, how to 
recognize it and how to refer them for help and assistance in being 
able to deal with the symptoms that will not enable them to keep a job 
and be able to be productive citizens. They need to learn the symptoms 
of post-traumatic stress syndrome.

Families are also impacted, wives, the children, the separation, the 
long separations of the father or the mother, whatever the case may be, 
from their parent, the primary care providers and all physicians, 
nurses, psychologists and psychiatrists must also learn how to be able 
to recognize PTSD, which is a little bit separate than trauma, to 
ensure that all these men and women receive the care they need. The 
most common problem in the military culture, of course, is the fear of 
how this will impact their military career. And I'm glad to say that 
some of our military leaders are beginning to recognize that this is an 
important way to be able to help their men and women in service remain 
in service and be a part of their troops or their units. And we must 
continue to bring that forth and be able to assure them that they will 
not lose their ability to be able to be promoted.

We must train those military leaders and educate them, the doctors, 
the corpsmen and the nurses on how to treat PTSD and ask the soldiers 
to identify signs and symptoms of it with mild TBI, traumatic brain 
injury, to reinforce the collective responsibility


to take care of each other. All of us must work together to ensure our 
troops, who have given so much, are taken care of. And at home, our 
economy, as pointed out by my colleague, Mrs. Capps, has caused 
struggle. So have our minds. The recession has taken a toll on our 
families. Economic uncertainty is causing stress, anxiety and 
depression. The worrying about losing their homes or their jobs, 
worrying about the children and the retirement, if they are going to be 
able to retire or has their retirement fund gone somewhere.

It affects not only the quality of life but also our U.S. economy. 
Major depression is the leading cause of disability in the United 
States. The National Institute of Mental Health reports that serious 
mental illness costs the Nation at least $139 billion a year in lost 
earnings alone. So we must continue to have businesses know that 
including them in the health provision of services will help them be 
able to cut down on lost productivity in other areas. Again we must 
remove the stigma. We must remove the barrier to knowledge and bring 
more awareness and increase mental health services. Again, early 
detection and intervention and assistance is key.

I encourage all my colleagues to support House Resolution 437 to 
recognize May as Mental Health Month. We all know of someone who 
suffers from some kind of debilitating disorder. Even women with breast 
cancer; knowing that they have an issue with cancer is disabling. We 
must recognize also scientific facts and findings, increase awareness 
of services and how it affects the quality of life, the health and 
well-being of our communities and our economic stability. Let's work 
together to improve our lives and ask for support of House Resolution 
437.