# REMEMBERING SENATOR TED STEVENS
## `d1e3595b1de5304460c7dd634f86f43d`
`Ms. MURKOWSKI â€” 28 September 2010`

---


Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, on the morning of Tuesday, August 10, 
in Alaska, in Washington, and around the world, time seemed to stand 
still. It was then we received word that a floatplane carrying our 
beloved Senator Ted Stevens had gone down in the remote Bristol Bay 
region of western Alaska. Senator Stevens traveled to that area, as he 
did practically each summer for decades, to pursue one of his dearest 
passions--fishing.

Along with Senator Stevens on that flight were several of his closest 
friends. Sean O'Keefe, the former Administrator of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration; Jim Morhard, who came to the 
Senate in 1983 as an aide to Senator Pete Wilson of California and 
retired in 2005 as chief of staff of the Senate Appropriations 
Committee; Bill Phillips, a distinguished Washington lawyer and former 
chief of staff to Senator Stevens was on the flight; as was Dana 
Tindall, one of


Alaska's best and brightest who made a career of bringing 21st century 
telecommunications technology to our vast territory. Three of their 
children were on the trip as well: Sean's son Kevin, Bill's son Willy, 
and Dana's daughter Corey. The pilot was Theron ''Terry'' Smith, an 
accomplished aviator who retired as chief pilot after 25 years with 
Alaska Airlines in Anchorage.

When it became apparent that the floatplane was overdue en route to a 
remote fishing camp, a massive search was quickly mobilized. The 
wreckage was located and, thankfully, there were survivors.

Sean and his son Kevin, Jim Morhard and Willy Phillips survived the 
crash. We pray for their swift and full recovery.

At the same time our hearts dropped at the news that the crash 
claimed the lives of Senator Stevens, Bill Phillips, Dana Tindall, her 
daughter Corey, and pilot Terry Smith.

At a later time I will have more to say about the distinguished 
careers of Bill Phillips, Dana Tindall, and Terry Smith, as well the 
lost promise of Corey Tindall, a champion debater at South High School 
in Anchorage and an aspiring doctor.

I will also have more to say about the heroes that responded to the 
crash site. That story begins with the Good Samaritan pilots who 
located the wreckage, Dr. Dani Bowman, and local first responders who 
were brought in by helicopter--they cared for the survivors and the 
dead in poor weather through a long night awaiting rescue--the elite 
Alaska National Guard and Coast Guard search and rescue teams that 
accomplished the rescue, the medical teams in Anchorage that tended to 
the survivors.

Today, I would like to devote a few moments in memory of my mentor, a 
man who stands tall among our Senate family as one of the truly great 
Senators of all time, my dear friend, Ted Stevens.

It would take days and days to enumerate all of Senator Stevens' 
accomplishments in this body over the course of 40 years. The Senate 
began the process of chronicling Senator Stevens' place in history in 
S. Res. 617, which was enacted on August 12. Our colleagues will fill 
in the details in the coming days.

Let me digress for a moment and extend my deepest appreciation, and 
that of the Stevens family, to our colleagues and the staff--all of 
those who pulled out the stops--to ensure that S. Res. 617 could be 
enacted during a brief lull in the recess. The resolution was presented 
to the Stevens family following the funeral in Anchorage. It was well 
received.


So how to summarize the remarkable career of Ted Stevens in a few 
moments. Ted Stevens was the longest serving Republican in the Senate's 
history. He served as President pro tempore and President pro tempore 
emeritus. He was the assistant Republican leader. At various points 
during his career he chaired the Appropriations Committee, the 
Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs, the Committee on Rules and Administration, and 
the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He was involved in numerous 
other leadership roles.

He was a dear, dear friend of our men and women in uniform. In the 
early 1970s he helped to bring an end to the draft and encouraged the 
All Volunteer military force. He worked diligently to ensure that 
service members were compensated fairly, that their benefits were not 
eroded, and that they received the best health care.

A family man always, he was deeply concerned about the length of time 
that service members were separated from their families. And when 
service members returned from Iraq and Afghanistan suffering from PTSD 
and TBI, he ensured that funds were shifted from lower defense 
priorities to address these immediate concerns. He used his key 
position on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee to make this all 
happen.

During his more than 40 years in the Senate he traveled to visit with 
service members on the battlefield. He visited Vietnam, Kuwait, Bosnia, 
Kosovo, Iraq, and Afghanistan. On those trips he spent time with those 
in the lowest ranks, asking whether they had the right equipment, how 
the food was, and how their families back home were coping.

Although he will long be remembered as a tireless advocate for the 
responsible development of Alaska's abundant natural resources, his 
friends and even his foes readily admit that he leaves a substantial 
conservation legacy. He was key to the compromise that led to the 
enactment of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, a 
leader in fishery conservation through the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
Conservation and Management Act and the High Seas Driftnet Fisheries 
Enforcement Act.

He was a champion of the Olympic movement, a champion of physical 
fitness, a champion of amateur athletics. He played a significant role 
in ensuring that female athletes could compete on a level playing field 
with their male counterparts. He was one of the best friends public 
broadcasting could possibly have in Washington. He championed family 
friendly policies for America's civil servants. These are some of his 
legacies to the Nation.

But to many Alaskans he was known simply as ''Uncle Ted.'' And it was 
not just for the Federal dollars he brought to the State of Alaska, the 
energy facilities, hospitals and clinics, roads, docks, airports, water 
and sewer facilities, schools and other community facilities, although 
these were substantial.

The Almanac of American Politics observed, ''No other Senator fills 
so central a place in his state's public and economic life as Ted 
Stevens of Alaska; quite possibly no other Senator ever has.''

Truth be told, Ted Stevens was known as Uncle Ted because so many 
Alaskans viewed him as a friend of their own Alaskan families. Alaskans 
treasure the photographs and the letters that Senator Stevens sent 
them. Some of those photographs and letters were decades old, yet 
treasured keepsakes.


He gave Alaska's young people an opportunity to intern in Washington, 
inspiring many careers in public service. I am proud to be one of those 
interns. He hired many young Alaskans, once they graduated college, as 
junior staff members. He encouraged the best to go to law school and 
then brought them back as legislative assistants and committee staff. 
Many went on to accomplish great things in their chosen fields.

In the aftermath of Senator Stevens' death, hundreds upon hundreds of 
Alaskans lined the streets of Anchorage bearing signs that read, 
''Thank you, Ted'' as his funeral procession drove by. Makeshift 
memorial services were conducted in Alaska's Native villages.

Why did Ted Stevens' loss shake Alaska so hard? The answer is simple. 
For generations of Alaskans he had been their Senator for life. Ted 
Stevens became Alaska's Senator less than 10 years after Alaska was 
admitted to statehood. I was 11 years old when he first came to the 
Senate.

In so many respects, his elevation to the Senate in 1968 was the 
culmination of a career of service to Alaska that began in the 1950s. 
It was, if you will, his second career of service to the people of 
Alaska.

Ted's first career began when he was named the U.S. attorney in 
Fairbanks. In a 2002 speech to the Alaska Federation of Natives, Ted 
recalled that this position gave him the opportunity to carry out 
President Eisenhower's commitment to equal rights for everyone. He 
traveled throughout the area requesting business owners to take down 
signs that read, ''No Natives Allowed.''

Ted then moved to Washington to serve as legislative counsel in the 
Interior Department. He played a key role in the enactment of the 
legislation that admitted Alaska as America's 49th State.

He helped draft that section of the Alaska Statehood Act which 
committed the Federal Government to the settlement of the Alaska Native 
land claims. After leaving the Interior Department he opened a law 
practice in Anchorage. Among his clients was the Native Village of 
Minto. The State of Alaska was about to select Minto's traditional 
lands in advance of a land claims settlement. Senator Stevens took on 
Minto's case pro bono. He invited Alaska Native leaders to his home to 
explore strategies for a more comprehensive settlement of Alaska Native 
land claims.



Ted Stevens could not have guessed at that point that he would join 
the U.S. Senate and have the opportunity to make the dreams of Alaska's 
Native peoples a reality.

That was the first order of business when Ted came to the Senate. He 
began work on the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act in 1969 and on 
December 18, 1971, the dream that Alaska's Native people would hold 
title to their ancestral lands became a reality.

This December marks the 39th anniversary of the passage of the Alaska 
Native Claims Settlement Act--ANCSA. That landmark legislation returned 
some 44 million acres of land to Alaska's Native people and created the 
regional and village Alaska Native Corporations.

ANCSA led to a resurgence in Native pride and self-confidence. It 
gave our Native people unparalleled opportunities to lead. It has 
proven a valuable legacy for the continuation of Alaska Native culture 
through the generations.

Senator Stevens played a significant role in bringing Alaska's Native 
people together to create today's great institutions of Indian self-
determination. The Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium and the 
Southcentral Foundation, which together operate the Alaska Native 
Medical Center in Anchorage, are just two examples.

The Alaska Native Medical Center, Alaska's only certified level II 
trauma center, has earned national recognition for the quality of its 
nursing care. It is connected through innovative telemedicine 
technology to regional Native medical centers in rural Alaska and 
clinics at the village level. None of this would be possible without 
Senator Stevens' leadership.

Senator Stevens deplored the Third World conditions that stubbornly 
persisted in rural Alaska, threatening the health of Native children. 
He helped build showers and laundromats in rural Alaska--we call them 
washeterias--and he helped construct water and sewer facilities so that 
our Native people did not have to haul their waste to an open dump 
site. I am sad to say that this work is far from done. There is that 
last 25 percent or so that remains to be done.

It is often said that a society is judged by the way it treats its 
most vulnerable members. It is appropriate that we judge the character 
of our elected officials in the same manner. In Alaska, our Native 
people are the most vulnerable. For decades, Alaska's most vulnerable 
people have had no better friend than Ted Stevens.

As I noted in my response to Ted's farewell speech on November 20, 
2008, ''When I think of all of the good things, the positive things 
that have come to Alaska in the past five decades I see the face and I 
see the hands of Ted Stevens in so many of them.''

Not just in rural Alaska but throughout Alaska I think of Senator 
Stevens whenever an F-22 takes flight from Elmendorf Air Force Base. I 
think of him when I drive through the front gate of Eielson Air Force 
Base, which was spared from the 2005 BRAC round largely through his 
leadership. His face is in the new VA Regional Clinic in Anchorage and 
in the Community Based Outpatient Clinic in the Mat-Su Valley. I think 
of Ted when I am fishing on the Kenai River and all of his efforts to 
help with conservation and restoration of this world class river. These 
are just a few of Senator Stevens' contributions to Alaska. There is so 
much more.

At the close of his farewell remarks to the Senate, our friend Ted, 
told us that he had two homes: ''One in this Chamber, the other his 
beloved State of Alaska.'' He closed his remarks with the phrase, ''I 
must leave one to return to the other.''

How prophetic. For on the afternoon of August 9, a cold and gloomy 
day, yet the kind of day when fishing is great, the Lord called our 
friend Ted Stevens from Alaska to yet a third home.

Ted's departure leaves a tremendous hole in the hearts of the people 
of Alaska, a hole in the collective hearts of his Senate family, and a 
hole in my heart that will take a long time to heal.

On behalf of a grateful Senate and a grateful American people, I 
extend condolences to Ted's wife Catherine; to his children Susan, 
Beth, Ted, Walter, Ben and Lily, and to all of the grandchildren.

As our friend, the late Senator Robert Byrd, knew and often recounted 
on the Senate floor--of all of the things that brought Ted Stevens joy, 
his family brought Ted the greatest of joys. In Ted's words, his family 
gave him the kind of love, support, and sacrifice which made his 40-
year career in the Senate possible and gave it meaning. We thank Ted's 
family for sharing this remarkable man with Alaska, the Senate, and the 
Nation.

Thank you, Ted. We will never forget you.