# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `d1eced9a14eb2bcef866992396f55223`
`Mr. WEBB — 4 January 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in support of a bill 
that I am introducing, entitled the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational 
Assistance Act of 2007. This bill is designed to expand the educational 
benefits that our Nation offers to the brave men and women who have 
served us so honorably since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 
2001.

As a veteran who hails from a family with a long history of military 
service, I am proud to offer this bill as my first piece of legislation 
in the United States Senate.

Most of us know that our country has a tradition--since World War 
II--of offering educational assistance to returning veterans. In the 
1940s, the first G.I. bill helped transform notions of equality in 
American society. The G.I. bill program was designed to help veterans 
readjust to civilian life, avoid high levels of unemployment, and give 
veterans the opportunity to receive the education and training that 
they missed while bravely serving in the military.

To achieve these goals, the post-World War II G.I. bill paid for 
veterans' tuition, books, fees, and other training costs, and also gave 
a monthly stipend. After World War II, 7.8 million veterans used the 
benefits given under the original G.I. bill in some form, out of a 
wartime veteran population of 15 million.

Over the last several decades, Congress subsequently passed several 
other G.I. bills, which also gave educational benefits to veterans. 
However, benefits awarded under those subsequent bills have not been as 
generous as our Nation's original G.I. bill.

Currently, veterans' educational benefits are administered under the 
Montgomery G.I. bill. This program periodically adjusts veterans' 
educational benefits, but the program is designed primarily for 
peacetime--not wartime--service.

Yet, now our Nation is fighting a worldwide war against terrorism. 
Since 9/11, we have witnessed a sharp increase in the demands placed 
upon our military. Many of our military members are serving two or 
three tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan. In light of these immense 
hardships, it is now time to implement a more robust educational 
assistance program for our heroic veterans who have sacrificed so much 
for our great Nation.

The Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007 does just 
that. This bill is designed to give our returning troops educational 
benefits identical to the benefits provided to veterans after World War 
II.

The new benefits package under the bill I am introducing today will 
include the costs of tuition, room and board, and a monthly stipend of 
$1,000. By contrast, existing law under the Montgomery G.I. bill 
provides educational support of up to $1,000 per month for four years, 
totaling $9,000 for each academic year. This benefit simply is 
insufficient after 9/11.

For example, costs of tuition, room, and board for an in-state 
student at George Mason University, located in


Fairfax, Virginia, add up to approximately $14,000 per year. In 
addition, existing law requires participating service members to pay 
$1,200 during their first year of service in order to even qualify for 
the benefit.

Let me briefly summarize some of the reforms that are contained in 
the bill I am introducing today.

First, these increased educational benefits will be available to 
those members of the military who have served on active duty since 
September 11, 2001. In general, to qualify, veterans must have served 
at least two years of active duty, with at least some period of active 
duty time served beginning on or after September 11, 2001.

Next, the bill provides for educational benefits to be paid for a 
duration of time that is linked to time served in the military. 
Generally, veterans will not receive assistance for more than a total 
of 36 months, which equals four academic years.

Third, as I mentioned a moment ago, my bill would allow veterans 
pursuing an approved program of education to receive payments covering 
the established charges of their program, room and board, and a monthly 
stipend of $1,000. Moreover, the bill would allow additional payments 
for tutorial assistance, as well as licensure and certification tests.

Fourth, veterans would have up to 15 years to use their educational 
assistance entitlement. But veterans would be barred from receiving 
concurrent assistance from this program and another similar program, 
such as the Montgomery G.I. bill program.

Finally, under this bill, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs would 
administer the program, promulgate rules to carry out the new law, and 
pay for the program from funds made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for the payment of readjustment benefits.

Again, I note that the benefits I have outlined today essentially 
mirror the benefits allowed under the G.I. bill enacted after World War 
II. That bill helped spark economic growth and expansion for a whole 
generation of Americans. The bill I introduce today likely will have 
similar beneficial effects. As the post-World War II experience so 
clearly indicated, better educated veterans have higher income levels, 
which in the long run will increase tax revenues.

Moreover, a strong G.I. bill will have a positive effect on military 
recruitment, broadening the socio-economic makeup of the military and 
reducing the direct costs of recruitment.

Perhaps more importantly, better-educated veterans have a more 
positive readjustment experience. This experience lowers the costs of 
treating post-traumatic stress disorder and other readjustment-related 
difficulties.

The United States has never erred when it has made sustained new 
investments in higher education and job training. Enacting the Post-9/
11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007 is not only the right 
thing to do for our men and women in uniform, but it also is a strong 
tonic for an economy plagued by growing disparities in wealth, stagnant 
wages, and the outsourcing of American jobs.

Mr. President I am a proud veteran who is honored to serve this great 
Nation. As long as I represent Virginians in the United States Senate, 
I will make it a priority to help protect our brave men and women in 
uniform.

I am honored that the Senate Majority Leader has agreed to join with 
me to be a defender and advocate of our veterans. The Majority Leader 
has included the concepts of the bill I introduce today in his 
leadership bill designed to rebuild the United States military. 
Additionally, I plan to work closely with Veterans' Affairs Committee 
Chairman Akaka--and all of my Senate colleagues--to statutorily update 
G.I. benefits.

Together we can provide the deserving veterans of the 9/11 with the 
same program of benefits that our fathers and grandfathers received 
after World War II.

Mr. President, I ask that the bill I introduce today--the Post-9/11 
Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007--be printed in the Record 
along with this statement.