# CELEBRATING THE 120-YEAR PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND STATE  VETERANS HOMES
## `d1f000afcb389309ad84828cc3db8217`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 
1335, introduced by my friend and colleague Mr. Hodes, which rightly 
celebrates the 120-year partnership between Government and State 
veterans homes.

State Veterans Homes are a critical part of the care our veterans 
receive after serving our country. In my State of Connecticut, the 
State Department of Veterans Affairs has provided care for Veterans and 
their dependents for 144 years, since the opening of Fitch's Home for 
Soldiers and Their Orphans in Darien, Connecticut on July 4, 1864--the 
first such facility in the Nation. In 1940, the Fitch home became the 
Connecticut State Veterans hospital and was relocated to Rocky Hill, 
Connecticut, where Connecticut veterans today continue to receive a 
spectrum of care and assistance they so urgently need from dedicated 
professionals and volunteers.

In just a few weeks, Connecticut veterans will benefit from the 
opening of the first major new facility in Rocky Hill in over 65 years. 
The new veterans care facility will provide modern, state of the art 
care for Alzheimer's and hospice patients. From the new rooms that 
provide patients with long-needed privacy, to expanded lounge areas and 
family dining facilities that allow veterans to spend time with their 
families in a private and comfortable setting, the new facility will 
ensure that Connecticut veterans receive the dignified treatment they 
deserve. This exciting improvement was made possible by a strong 
Federal commitment to the State Home Construction Grant Program, which 
for 44 years has helped States like Connecticut meet the ever-
increasing needs of our veterans by investing in long-term capital 
improvement projects.

I had the honor of visiting the Rocky Hill facility just this past 
weekend, where I attended Stand Down 2008. This one-day event is an 
annual outreach and support program that helps needy and homeless 
veterans to receive services and information from over 30 State, 
Federal and private organizations all assembled in one location. During 
my visit, I observed countless volunteers from organization across the 
State helping needy and struggling veterans receive a variety of 
services, including medical screenings, dental exams, legal assistance, 
housing referrals, assistance with Federal VA benefits and disability 
claims, job counseling and training, financial assistance and debt 
counseling; education programs and services and everyday necessities 
such as free haircuts, clothing and supplies.

At last year's Stand Down, 750 needy veterans came to Rocky Hill to 
receive assistance. This year, that number is expected to reach 900 or 
more, an increase largely fueled by the growing needs of veterans 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the impact of the 
economic downturn on our neediest veterans. Our State Commissioner of 
Veterans Affairs, Dr. Linda Schwartz, has helped bring new life into 
this yearly event, making it an effective way to ensure that veterans 
have access to the services and care they need. Under her leadership, 
Connecticut is stepping up to ensure that no veteran who has served 
their Nation is left behind. Yet, as gratifying as it was to see 
veterans being helped at Stand Down, the growth in the number of 
veterans taking advantage of the event is a stark reminder of how much 
more our Nation must do to ensure that our promise to those who have 
served is fulfilled.

I ask all my colleagues to join me in thanking the countless 
professionals at the Connecticut Department of Veterans Affairs, 
volunteers and organizations that came together at Connecticut's Stand 
Down in helping to make a difference in the lives or our veterans.