---
---

# REMEMBERING THE EVENTS OF NOVEMBER 5, 2009, AT FORT HOOD, TEXAS
## `d1fae06a63f6294101590de177236db9`
`Mr. McCAUL — 16 November 2009`

---


Mr. McCAUL. I thank the gentleman from Indiana.

Again, reclaiming my time, I think I speak for most Americans, we do 
not want to see this thing swept under the rug. We don't want to see 
the rush to judgment that it was the act of one man--and perhaps it 
was--but the American people need to know the truth, and they need to 
know who he was talking to. And when the reporting came out that he was 
talking to the top al Qaeda recruiter in Yemen by emails and that there 
were communications in Pakistan, that raises big flags in this case. We 
cannot ignore that.

It is our constitutional duty to ask the tough questions to get to 
the bottom of this case so that the American people, through their 
representatives, can find out what really happened that tragic day on 
November 5. And if we don't do that, and if the majority does not want 
to do that and bows to the President and his request, I think we are 
being derelict in our responsibilities.

Again, this is a man who places allegiance more to the Koran than the 
Constitution, in his own words. ''Son of Allah'' on his business cards, 
dressed in the Pakistan garb, classic of the suicide bomber techniques 
to will your possessions away, wear the dress the morning of. I think 
he fully expected not to survive the incident. He did. And the best 
evidence we have is inside his head.

Of course the first thing he did was ask for an attorney, and he is 
not speaking. That is the same thing Khalid Sheikh Mohammed asked for. 
When he first got arrested, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed asked for two 
things: I want a lawyer, and I want to be taken to New York City. And 
unfortunately, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed got his wish that day because 
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is going to be brought to New York now under the 
President's new guidelines.

I think getting to the bigger picture of all this, as we've taken 
''war on terror'' out of the vernacular, we are moving back to this 
Clinton era where these terrorists are treated not as enemies of war 
but as criminal defendants. We are in a war, like it or not. We are in 
a war. We need to treat these people who mean to do us harm as enemies 
of war. The military tribunals are the best way to prosecute. We are 
going to bring Mr. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed into the United States to the 
very city where 3,000 people were killed at his hands.

I was a Federal prosecutor. The Southern District of New York is one 
of the finest U.S. Attorney's offices and is probably best equipped to 
handle that prosecution, but the Federal rules of evidence are very 
different from the military tribunals. It's going to withhold evidence 
from trial. It will not protect classified information. It will turn to 
a showcase. And as in the case of Moussaoui, whose computer records 
were ruled inadmissible, he got life imprisonment. Ramsey Yousef, the 
perpetrator of the '93 World Trade Center got life imprisonment. Khalid 
Sheikh Mohammed deserves the death penalty. It was an act of war.

Now, I don't know if the administration is saying, you know, 
basically that the war on terror is over, it's over so let's just go 
ahead and bring these people in and treat them like criminal 
defendants, but I think they are making a serious mistake, not only 
compromising the prosecutions of these terrorists but bringing them 
into a city that has been a target for quite some time. It's only going 
to heighten the state of alertness in New York City and become a mecca 
for jihadists around the world to come to New York to see the spectacle 
of a show trial. They ought to be tried in Guantanamo. Guantanamo never 
should have been closed or the order should never have been sent out to 
close it, and a military tribunal is best equipped to prosecute these 
individuals.

Just let me say in closing, we've been dealing with the health care 
legislation. It is very important for the Nation, but we were struck by 
a heavy blow last week, November 5, at Fort Hood. We never expected it 
to be one of our own. We never expected an act of treason on that 
level, killing 13 soldiers and wounding 30 others, firing off 100 
rounds, yelling out ''Allahu Akbar,'' talking to known al Qaeda 
operatives in Yemen and possibly Pakistan. There are too many questions 
in this case, too many red flags, and the American people deserve the 
answer. We in the Congress--and I know my good friend from Indiana 
stands with me--we're not going to sit back and follow the orders of 
this President to stand down and not exercise our constitutional 
responsibility.

There is a separation of branches of government under the 
Constitution for a good reason. The executive branch can't sweep things 
under the rug. The American people, through their representatives, need 
to find out what really happened. The American people deserve the truth 
in this case. They deserve hearings, a full investigation and the truth 
to come out.

I commend our great fighting men and women. I have had so many 
constituents who have gone through Fort Hood on their missions to Iraq 
and Afghanistan. They were serving very bravely and nobly in a very, 
very important struggle between radical Islam and freedom, between the 
jihadists and democracy. We will eventually win that struggle. We pray 
for the victims' families, and we pray that God holds their loved ones 
in the palms of his hands.
