---
---

# WAR SUPPLEMENTAL IS BAD POLITICS, BAD POLICY
## `d202f5e6f7320ca93821c1758076faec`
`Mr. CARTER — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. I agree with you wholeheartedly. That is our issue here 
tonight. I agree with you. They worked hard to put a lot of the needs 
in here. Let's not say that these other things that have been, in my 
opinion, wrongly added to this bill in the way of pork, those things 
are still very important to this country. Many of those things are 
important to my district, but I would tell my folks back home, as 
important as some of those things are, our kids have enough to carry on 
their shoulders in Iraq without carrying the burden of these projects 
which can be dealt with in the regular appropriations process which is 
still to come, and the regular budget process which is still to come.

You know what? If passing legislation, if there were a drop-dead date 
we were told, we would be voting on this bill today. So if we were 
going to be having a drop-dead event in world politics today, it would 
drop dead today, because we didn't pass what we were promised we were 
going to pass today.

To put a time limit, to do it by the 1st of July or everybody comes 
home, when we are talking to them, that's the voice of a legislative 
body talking to another legislative body. And they know they can't meet 
deadlines in their Congress. We can't meet absolute deadlines in our 
Congress. Things happen. This is what's wrong with micromanaging from 
6,000 miles away.