---
---

# BIPARTISAN COOPERATION
## `d20eb9bfa2283a097faa272e3c0de7d6`
`Mr. DORGAN — 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, it certainly does not make sense. In fact, 
exactly the opposite. That is nonsense, to bring a bill to the floor 
and say: Look, regular order would be to bring up amendments. If a 
majority of the Senators agree with them, those amendments are 
approved. But we don't like regular order. Let's decide every amendment 
that shall be brought up shall have to have 60 votes. Why? Because if 
not, they will filibuster every amendment and then complain nothing is 
getting done. No, it does not make sense, I would say to my friend.

Now, I didn't come to talk about that, but let me talk a moment about 
this issue of the economy. This is a discussion about starting the 
engine, or getting the engine working on this ship of state so that we 
move the country forward. It is about jobs and expanding opportunities 
for the American people because when the economy contracts, people run 
into trouble.

They are the ones who get laid off, the folks who are working in 
plants and working at the bottom for minimum wage. They are the ones 
who lose ground during an economic contraction.

Well, it used to be on the old automobiles, when you started an 
engine, you had to crank it. And then we went from a crank to a 
starter, so you push a button or turn a key. Well, some people think 
our economy is simple as that. It is not, of course. A large component 
of our economy is people's confidence. If they are confident in the 
future, they do the things that represent that confidence--they make 
that purchase, they buy a washer and dryer if they need it, they buy a 
car, they take a trip. In doing so, because they are confident about 
the future, they expand the economy. If they lack confidence in the 
future, they do exactly the opposite--they defer the purchase of that 
piece of equipment for their home, they defer the purchase of the car, 
they defer the trip--and the economy contracts.

We have a problem with this economy for a lot of reasons. I have 
described some of them on the floor of the Senate recently. But the 
Federal Reserve Board recognized that problem and took a very bold 
action--three-quarters of a percent interest rate cut--and likely will 
do more in the next couple of days. The impression is that we also 
should do something called a stimulus package; that is, stimulus with 
respect to fiscal policy. I do not object to that. In fact, I think we 
probably have to do that because a whole lot of what is going on in the 
market these days is about psychology.

I have indicated this before. I have called the field of economics 
psychology pumped up by helium. I think that is a pretty adequate 
description of what it is. People think it is science. It is not. It is 
a circumstance in which we know very little about the way this economy 
works. We do have more stabilizers in the economy than we did decades 
ago, so we have been able to even out a bit some of the recessions and 
the downturns. All of that has been helpful. We may be in a recession 
now. No one knows. We probably will not know that until we see it in 
the rearview mirror. But if we do a stimulus package on fiscal policy--
and I think that is a reasonable thing to do--I do


not think it is going to have a significant impact on the economy. 
Suggesting 1 percent of our GDP as a stimulus--it is not going to have 
a dramatic impact. But psychologically, I think we must do a stimulus.

Let me say that I do think what the Finance Committee chairman is 
talking about makes a lot of sense. If you are going to do a stimulus 
package and you are going to provide some kind of rebate, make sure you 
include senior citizens, many of whom are living on lower incomes. They 
are the ones who are going to spend it. They are the ones who are going 
to contribute to additional purchasing power in the economy. So you 
should not leave out the millions of senior citizens if you are going 
to do a stimulus package. I support including senior citizens in that 
stimulus package.

You know, the President and a couple of my colleagues just said: 
Well, you cannot change it. The House did it. The President wants it. 
You cannot change it. They come here, and they always suggest that this 
is like a loose thread on a cheap sweater: you pull the head of the 
thread, and the arms fall off. That is not the case at all.

The House did its version of a stimulus package. We should do ours. 
We have some better ideas. But we ought to get it done quickly, and we 
ought to resolve it with the House and send it to the President. 
Extending unemployment benefits is something we always do in an 
economic downturn, and we should do it again, in my judgment.

But let me say that in a stimulus package that is brought to the 
floor of the Senate that does not have a cap on who is going to get the 
rebates makes no sense at all. And there is talk about that, that we 
will get a stimulus package and have no cap on the rebate. We are going 
to send Bill Gates a $500 check to see if we can stimulate the economy 
a little bit. That makes no sense. You have to have a cap. This ought 
to go to middle income and lower income families. They are ones who 
will spend it and the ones who will be able to give a jump-start to 
this economy, to the extent the stimulus package actually does that. 
But as I said, psychologically I think we have a responsibility to use 
fiscal policy to do something in this general direction.

Now, the Senator from Connecticut just came to the floor, and he has 
been working on something I am very interested in; that is, 
infrastructure investment. If we just do a short-term stimulus of 1 
percent of the economy and that is all, we are not going to give this 
economy the kind of boost or give the investment to this country that 
it needs. We need a second step, and the second step ought to be the 
big step, and we ought to take a look at what is going on in the 
infrastructure of this country.

My colleague has a bill, the Dodd-Hagel bill, that I think makes a 
lot of sense. We had a meeting on that on Friday, a rather lengthy 
meeting with a lot of people. Here is the situation.

Infrastructure investment is job creating. When you invest in 
infrastructure, you create jobs and you create a better country. Fly 
into Bagram Air Base and then get in a vehicle, drive to Kabul, take a 
look at the road, and ask yourself about infrastructure in a country 
such as Afghanistan. Fly into Tegucigalpa and then drive in a car to 
Juticalpa in Honduras, take a look at the road, and ask yourself about 
infrastructure investment. Or go to Haiti and land at Port-au-Prince, 
travel across the island to Jacmel, and consider for a moment what 
infrastructure means to a country. The fact is, you fly over Nicaragua 
and look down, and you do not see many roads because they do not have 
much of an infrastructure.

Then fly from any of those countries back to our country, come into 
an airport, get in a vehicle and drive down the road, and then think 
about infrastructure and what we have built over a long period of time 
that makes us proud of this country and allows this country to expand 
and grow and create opportunity. Then take a look at what has happened 
recently. This country stopped investing in infrastructure in any 
significant way. Our infrastructure is crumbling, in desperate 
disrepair. Big bridges fall down, and highways are crumbling. The fact 
is, we have schools that are in shameful condition in this country, 
water programs that are desperately needed for water treatment that are 
waiting for money to do it.


Now, when the Federal Government buys this highlighter pen for me--at 
my office, we have a supply of highlighter pens--this is expensed. Now, 
anybody who takes accounting understands you expense something on day 
one. But the fact is, when we spend $200 million building a piece of 
highway or invest $500 million in an airport, we expense that as well. 
No other enterprise that I am aware of in this country--none--will do 
what the Federal Government does and say: When you spend on 
infrastructure something that will last 50 and 100 years for this 
country, you have to expense it on the first day. We need a capital 
budget. We need an infrastructure investment bank. We need a whole 
series of things that represents a second step so that we can in the 
longer term invest in and expand opportunities in this country through 
infrastructure investment.

It is about jobs; it is about having pride in your country; it is 
about investing in your country in the kinds of things that allow 
economic progress. I don't want people to come out here and say: Let's 
do this stimulus and, boy, that will fix things. This is putting a 
little patch on something here; it is not going to fix things. It is 
something we should do, but if we do not do something much bolder, do 
something with much greater consequence in the longer term, that 
invests in this country's future, we will have missed a very 
substantial opportunity.

In the New York Times this morning, there is an op-ed piece by Bob 
Herbert that talks about the catastrophe in New Orleans. He talks about 
the bridge collapse in Minneapolis, the underground steam pipe in 
midtown Manhattan that blows up, the manhole cover that is blown out of 
the streets here in Washington, DC. He talks about South Carolina, 
where there is a long stretch of grievously neglected rural schools 
that has been dubbed ''the corridor of shame.'' You know, I have been 
in those kinds of schools. I have been in schools where kids were going 
to school in parts of the building that were condemned that were 100 
years old, where sewer gas was coming up back through some of the rooms 
and they could no longer use those rooms. We have all seen those 
things. This country has to do better. And we can do better if we put 
together the kinds of infrastructure investment banks and the capital 
budget, and advance this country's interests by building this country.

I want to make one final point. We were told this morning that the 
President is going to ask for another $70 billion for Iraq and 
Afghanistan. That is on top of the $196 billion he asked for last year 
in this fiscal year that we are in now. That is $16 billion a month, $4 
billion a week. He wants another $70 billion. That will take us well 
over two-thirds of a trillion dollars. I ask the question: Is it not 
time we started investing some at home? It is not time we started 
taking care of things here at home? The sky is the limit for these 
kinds of investments.

This morning, my colleagues were talking about fiscal responsibility. 
Not one penny of the war costs has been paid for. The President has 
insisted that we send soldiers to war and we spend this money and 
charge it to future generations. They will fight the war and come back 
and inherit this debt. That is not fiscally responsible either. How 
about suggesting there is a priority here at home for investing in this 
country, expanding opportunity in this country, and taking care of 
things that have been too long neglected?

So I wanted to say that in the context of this discussion we will 
have about the stimulus program. It is important, but what is much more 
important is for ourselves to have a longer view of investing in this 
country and expanding opportunity in this country by making this the 
kind of place we are proud of.

The folks who came before us did that. They had some real vision. 
Dwight Eisenhower said: Let's build an interstate from coast to coast. 
That would not happen under some of the folks who exist in this Chamber 
these days. It just would not. But what a boon to this country, to 
connect America with interstate highways. So we can do a lot better, 
and must if we are interested in the long-term well-being of this 
country.

I yield the floor.