---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `d21963ae39f326c95afffc68f303967a`
`Mrs. BOXER — 15 May 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I am pleased that the Water Resources 
Development Act of 2007 is on the floor of the Senate and that Members 
on both sides of the aisle are very supportive of this legislation. 
This legislation authorizes the projects and policies of the Civil 
Works Program of the Army Corps of Engineers. Again, it has very strong 
support across party lines.

I think it is important for the Senate to know, as well as the 
American people, that this bill is long overdue. Seven years ago, we 
passed the last WRDA bill. What does that mean? It means that very 
important flood control projects, wetlands restoration, environmental 
projects, clean water projects--so many of these projects have been 
delayed. When we are talking about the Nation's economy and public 
safety and the environment, these are things we all want to address. We 
address them in this bill. The beauty of it is that although Senator 
Inhofe and I have some deep differences on issues, this is one bill we 
both strongly support, and across the board we see support.

Every day I have come to the floor to talk about WRDA. I have 
stressed the strong support in the country for this legislation. I read 
yesterday from various letters of support. I want to call to Senators' 
attention--when they arrive to vote on the first amendment, which I 
hope we will all be opposing, or at least the vast majority of us--on 
their desks they will find, due to the good work of our pages, the 
letters of support I referred to yesterday. We have an amazing 
coalition. We have the National Association of Manufacturers supporting 
this bill. We have the American Farm Bureau Federation supporting this 
legislation, with a direct letter. We have a letter from the National 
Waterways Conference supporting this bill. We have the Audubon Society 
supporting this legislation. For those who may not be aware, it is a 
society of more than 1 million members and supporters who work very 
hard to restore America's natural resources. We have them supporting 
this bill. We have the American Society of Civil Engineers supporting 
this bill. We have the National Construction Alliance, which is made up 
of the Laborers International Union, the International Union of 
Operating Engineers, and the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and 
Joiners of America. This is about as broad a coalition as we can have. 
It concludes with a letter from the Associated General Contractors of 
America. We have a bill that, as the National Construction Alliance 
says, is a $13.9 billion authorization of Corps projects which is a 
necessary first step in addressing our country's serious backlog of 
water projects, from harbor improvement, to flood protection, to lock 
and dam construction, dredging, and environmental infrastructure.


That is what we address in this very important bill.

We certainly have many contentious debates on the floor of this 
Senate. We are going to have one again on Iraq. It tugs at the 
heartstrings. It is very difficult. But this is one piece of 
legislation which should not be difficult for us. Senator Inhofe and I 
share a commitment to shoring up our Nation's infrastructure, including 
our water resources. We have a true partnership on this issue. I hope 
colleagues will join with us, as we work through the amendments. There 
will be some amendments we can support, but we have made a pact that 
even if there are some amendments each of us individually supports, if 
the four top members of the Environment and Public Works Committee have 
not agreed on them, we will be forced to vote no. This is not a 
pleasant situation for either of us. We think it is the way to maintain 
the delicate balance of the legislation, because the bill is a product 
of bipartisanship.

I mentioned the other two members of the committee who have worked so 
hard, Senators Baucus and Isakson. I thank them.

The whole country is looking to see what we do to help the victims of 
Hurricane Katrina and what we do to move forward so that we don't see 
another tragedy as we witnessed recently. About 25 percent of this bill 
is directed at Louisiana. We have gone very far to meet their needs. We 
do understand we haven't done 100 percent of what they need, but there 
will be other WRDAs, and there may well be a couple of amendments on 
which we can move forward. We don't know at this particular point.

We have waited 7 long years for this bill. We are going to be having 
a vote at a quarter of 12.

Before I yield to my good friend and colleague, the ranking member of 
the committee, for his comments, I hope everyone will join in voting no 
on the Coburn amendment. What he does in his amendment is, he has 
decided--and he is here in the Chamber now--that one of the projects in 
California should wait until another project in California is totally 
funded.

I call this amendment the Russian roulette amendment because the 
project he wants to delay is an important project in the San Diego 
area. It is the city of Imperial Beach. There is a very important 
project the Corps is recommending where the local match will be paid--
the initial stages, 30 percent; the final stages, 50 percent. We are 
talking about protecting 2,083 businesses. There are 812 nonrental 
property businesses and 1,271 rental properties. We are talking about 
22 retail businesses, 217 businesses located along the beachfront, 195 
are rental, and 19 businesses near the shoreline. What we are talking 
about doing is a project that is so cost-effective, it has met every 
criteria. It has gone through every phase. We received a letter from 
the mayor which clearly states they will be picking up their share.

This is a project which needs to move forward. You don't say to 
somebody in the southern part of a State: You don't deserve this flood 
protection until someone in the northern part of the State gets flood 
protection. We have to do it all. This is the United States of America. 
California, if we were a nation, would be the fifth largest economy in 
the world.

All Members have a right to their opinion and a right to offer 
amendments. I support my colleague's right to do so. But it is 
absolutely wrong. He will present it as some kind of a beach project. 
He makes it sound as if what we are doing is protecting a beach.


Nothing could be further from the truth. We are using the replenishment 
in this project as a way to absorb the floodwaters.

I will speak for a minute on this later. I hope we will have a 
resounding ''no'' vote. Every Member has a right to say what he or she 
thinks belongs in this bill. But this bill has gone through a rigorous 
process. We don't have anything in here that doesn't meet the criteria. 
Senator Inhofe was very strong on that. I agreed with him completely.

With my time waning, I yield the floor and look forward to a strong 
''no'' vote on the Coburn amendment in 15 minutes.