---
---

# IRAN
## `d2312699089421affda27af9ee1a7000`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairwoman, 
Maxine Waters. I would say I am delighted to be part of the Out-of-Iraq 
Caucus, but that is not the appropriate term. I am delighted, however, 
to join my colleagues, Chairwoman Waters and Congresswoman Barbara Lee 
and the other members who have participated and submitted their 
statement.

I wanted to join my colleagues because it has been a very long 
journey. I remind Congresswoman Waters in the fall of 2002, we were 
working hard for people to study the resolution being put before them. 
We garnered some 133-plus votes to vote in opposition to the then-Iraq 
resolution.

I want to speak constitutionally and why this special order and the 
position that Members are taking in opposing any preemptive attack or 
invasion of Iran and standing solidly against the perceived authority 
that the President may have.

Frankly, if we look at the 2002 resolution, we will find that it can 
be assessed that the President's authority


has expired. Saddam Hussein is no longer there. Elements of the 
resolution required that. The government has changed. There has been a 
democratic election, and there may be some question as to whether the 
adherence of the U.N. Security Council resolution is still part of that 
2002 war resolution. But I would argue that there have been so many 
resolutions in the U.N. we could also concede the point that we have 
protected or adhered to those resolutions.

I truly believe that we are at such a point in history that any 
actions by the President would warrant extreme actions; or I should not 
suggest extreme, I should suggest constitutional actions by this 
Congress. It may warrant raising issues of impeachment. The reason I 
say that is to use the War Powers Act in a way that ignores the 
constitutional privilege and right of this Congress to declare war, I 
believe, is not doing well by the American people.

We already know the results of a war without end, the Iraq war, that 
is costing $339 million a day, that has already gone past a trillion 
dollars, that has seen 9,500 of our soldiers injured or maimed, 
sometimes injured or maimed for life, to see 4,000-plus die. It is a 
war without end.

Frankly, the question has to become what is the President's goal and 
intent if he has an idea that Iran is the next target. Has he looked to 
diplomacy and looked to the question of working with China or Russia to 
contain Iran? Has he looked at negotiation with the individuals in Iran 
who really may be interested in some sort of resolution? Is he buying 
into the constant refrain that Iran is providing the weapons in Iraq? 
Is he also looking to the perceived friendship between the Iraq 
government and the Iran government? None of the above.

What I sense in the administration is a percolating attempt to attack 
Iran, and that percolating attempt based upon the representation of 
nuclear weapons. I don't want Iran to possess the capacity to engage 
and to utilize nuclear weapons, nor am I interested in protecting an 
Iran that has been hostile to the world. I am not interested in 
coddling terrorists. But we can clearly see that the policies in Iraq 
have not deterred the terrorists. They have only grown the terrorists. 
And I would question whether the only way to create peace in the Mid 
East is to again attack another country in the Mid East.

It is important that we continue to engage for two distinct states, 
the Palestinian and Israel negotiations. I would have hoped that this 
administration would have spent their time following through on the 
road map that the President announced some few years back. I believe 
that we were distracted in Iraq. We were distracted in Iraq from 
Afghanistan and from solving the Palestinian-Israeli question.

So I rise today to join my colleagues and say not on my watch, 
absolutely not. The statistics of the war in Iraq are devastating. Yes, 
I am prepared today to declare a military success in Iraq. A military 
success means that our soldiers on one and two and three and four 
redeployments have done everything the Commander in Chief has asked 
them to do. Saddam Hussein is gone, there have been democratic 
elections, and U.N. resolutions adhered to. Bring those soldiers home, 
declare a military success, and make the statement to the American 
people that we will never recklessly invade another country.

Iran is somewhat different from Iraq; and, therefore, may have a 
different story to tell. It may not be the easy route that they might 
have thought Iraq was. But frankly, my view is that we have crossed the 
constitutional bounds and that as I yield back to the distinguished 
chairwoman, I simply believe that we have come to a crisis point that 
this Congress must accept its duty and say to the President that no war 
can be declared without a vote of the United States Congress under the 
Constitution, and I would join with my colleagues, the chairman of the 
Human Right Subcommittee on International Issues of the Foreign Affairs 
Committee, Chairman Delahunt, to suggest that the War Powers Act should 
be amended and should now be that it can only be utilized by a 
President when the Nation is under imminent attack and when there is 
necessity to go forward to protect our citizens. Other than that, that 
War Powers Act should be amended, it should be drawn down, and we 
should stand with the Constitution. No invasion of Iran on my watch, 
and constitutional implications for the President of the United States 
if such attack is proposed.

I thank the distinguished gentlelady for her leadership in the Out-
of-Iraq Caucus.

I join my colleagues here tonight to discuss a very important issue: 
the possibility that this Administration may be intent on leading us 
into another war in the Middle East, this time against Iran. I would 
like to thank my colleague Congresswoman Waters for organizing this 
special order on Iran. Even as we remain engaged in a war in Iraq to 
which there is no military solution, this Administration has begun 
beating the drum for war with Iran. I strongly urge my congressional 
colleagues to send a clear message to President Bush that he does not 
currently have authorization to use military force against Iran.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that using a military strike against Iran 
would be a colossal error. As a nation, we are still paying an 
unacceptably high price for this Administration's ill-advised and ill-
executed invasion of Iraq in March 2003. In 2002, when I voted against 
the Joint Resolution to Authorize the Use of United States Armed Forces 
Against Iraq, I did so because I believed that this would be a war 
without end. I believed this resolution would trap us in a conflict 
that, like the Vietnam War, would consume American resources and lives 
without tangible yield. Unfortunately for the people of both this 
country and Iraq, this has proven true.

As a nation, we have already paid an enormous price for the war in 
Iraq. We have squandered an exponentially increasing amount of money, 
and, worst of all, lost an unacceptably large number of American lives. 
However, the over 4,000 U.S. casualties and the $3,919 per second 
($123.6 billion per year) we are spending in Iraq have bought neither 
peace nor security.

Mr. Speaker, even as our troops are caught in the midst of 
instability and civil war in Iraq, the President has begun the march to 
war with Iran. We cannot compound the mistakes of the Iraq war with the 
even bigger mistake of opening up a second military conflict in the 
Middle East. And yet, the Administration has begun to set the stage for 
a U.S. attack on Iranian military or nuclear facilities by issuing 
strong statements about Iran's intervention in Iraq, and using 
inflammatory rhetoric against Iran in a similar fashion to the run-up 
to the Iraq war.

In recent weeks, the Administration has increasingly referred to 
negative behavior of the Iranian regime. Despite contrary findings by 
the National Intelligence Estimate (NIE), Bush has increasingly stated 
that Iran is building nuclear weapons. The Administration has also 
cited Iran as a cause of instability in Iraq, and has argued that Iran 
is killing U.S. soldiers and supplying weapons, training, and funding.

I certainly believe that the current state of affairs in Iran, and 
specifically those issues relating to U.S. sanctions on Iran and the 
security of the region, are extremely important and in desperate need 
of discussion. As a Member of Congress, I find Iran's support of 
terrorist organizations, pursuit of nuclear weapons, and dismal human 
rights record to be extremely worrisome. However, I am also concerned 
by what appears to be movement by this Administration toward yet 
another war in the Gulf region, without having first exhausted 
diplomatic means of addressing any conflicts.

I have long been an advocate of a free, independent, and democratic 
Iran. I believe in an Iran that holds free elections, follows the rule 
of law, and is home to a vibrant civil society; an Iran that is a 
responsible member of the region and the international community, 
particularly with respect to the proliferation of nuclear weapons. An 
Iran that, unfortunately, we do not see today.


The only effective way to achieve lasting peace and prosperity in the 
region, along with bringing about reforms in Iran's polity, is to 
assist the Iranian people in their quest to achieve political, social, 
and religious liberty. Every government can be judged with the way in 
which it treats its ethnic and religious minorities, and the current 
Iranian government gets a failing grade for its treatment of its many 
and diverse minorities.

The controversy surrounding Iran's procurement of nuclear energy is 
cause for great concern; however, the administration's avoidance of any 
and all diplomatic relations with Iran is cause for greater alarm. 
Moreover, the current rhetoric from the Bush Administration regarding 
war with Iran is both counterproductive and highly inflammatory. While 
full diplomatic, political, and economic relations between the U.S. and 
Iran cannot be normalized unless and until enforceable safeguards are 
put in place to prevent the weaponization of Iran's nuclear program, 
these policy objectives should not constitute pre-conditions for any 
diplomatic dialogue.



Establishing a diplomatic dialogue with the Government of Iran and 
deepening relationships with the Iranian people would help foster 
greater understanding between the people of Iran and the people of the 
United States and would enhance the stability and the security of the 
Persian Gulf region. Doing so would reduce the threat of the 
proliferation or use of nuclear weapons in the region, while advancing 
other U.S. foreign policy objectives in the region. The significance of 
establishing and sustaining diplomatic relations with Iran cannot be 
over-emphasized. Avoidance and military intervention cannot be the 
means through which we resolve this looming crisis.

Mr. Speaker, Middle East experts have repeatedly stated that a U.S. 
attack on Iran would have disastrous consequences. Among possible 
outcomes, many experts agree, would be an Iranian counter-attack on 
U.S. and Israeli interests in the region or throughout the world. Such 
an attack could also lead to a greater Middle East War, and would 
undoubtedly bring with it a greater loss of life and financial burden.

Mr. Speaker, now is the time that we need to be looking to ending one 
Middle East conflict, not to beginning another. We need to work to 
rebuild our standing in the international community, not to raise 
further enmity in the Middle East and beyond by attacking another 
nation. I strongly urge my colleagues to speak out against any 
potential military strike in Iran.