# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `d23241182dc11941607d69332fb00cec`
`Mr. SARBANES â€” 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. SARBANES. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and pursuant to it will 
vote in strong support of the domestic funding portion of the 
supplemental appropriation, but in reluctant acceptance of the war 
funding, which appropriates some $37 billion to our efforts in 
Afghanistan, most of it going to the troop surge that President Obama 
announced in December of last year.

Concern about the well-being of our troops makes its difficult to 
vote against supplemental war funding once the troops that funding is 
meant to support have already been deployed. While a ''no'' vote on the 
war supplemental has some appeal as a way of forcing reevaluation of 
our current strategy, denying those funds could jeopardize the safety 
of our troops. For me, that leaves little real choice in the matter.

However, that does not mean I am ready to acquiesce in a policy that 
appears increasingly open-ended, while its cost in lives and resources 
continues to mount. I am highly skeptical that an extra year and 30,000 
additional troops will bring stability and effective governance in a 
country that for 30 years has seen nothing but conflict and for 
centuries has been known as the graveyard of empires. It is hard to 
imagine that the Karzai government will rid itself of corruption and 
become a reliable partner or that the Afghan forces will acquire a 
sustainable level of competency any time soon. The elusive ''turning 
point'' our policy seeks to achieve seems ever farther away.

Through it all, wear and tear on our troops has been unrelenting. 
More than a thousand Americans have lost their lives in Afghanistan and 
6,500 have been wounded in action. The toll of multiple tours and 
unconventional combat has placed terrible stress on our soldiers, 
resulting in a near epidemic of suicides among returning veterans. When 
the burdens on our troops is this heavy, our policymakers must bear a 
commensurate burden of proof to show that the sacrifice is in our 
national interest and that the mission is meeting with success. In my 
view, this burden of proof is not being met. For that reason, I believe 
we should stick to the plan of bringing our troops home and beginning 
that withdrawal no later than July of 2011.

That is why I will support the McGovern-Obey amendment that reaffirms 
the President's timeline for withdrawal. The McGovern-Obey amendment 
requires the President to submit a detailed plan for the safe, orderly, 
and expeditious redeployment of U.S. troops from Afghanistan, including 
a timeline for completion of that redeployment.

I am determined to fight terrorism. I wish I were confident that our 
current strategy in Afghanistan was having the net effect of advancing 
that goal. But I am not. I worry instead that as this 9-year war drags 
on and on, it is bogging us down, sapping our strength, and distracting 
us from other, more effective strategies for combating the terrorist 
threat in that region and elsewhere in the world.