---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `d23306cc9b80b06a945101f7acceba8b`
`Mr. DURBIN — 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, there have been comments on the floor 
about the fact that in just 2 hours the President of the United States 
will have an opportunity to sign or veto a bill which literally will 
affect the lives of 150,000 soldiers and their families, if not every 
American. It is a bill that was passed by the House and Senate, with 
bipartisan votes in both bodies, and sent to the President. It fully 
funds the troops in Iraq, giving them all the resources they need, and 
more, so they can execute this war and their duties in a safe manner.

But it also does something significant; it starts to change the 
mission in Iraq. We are in the fifth year of this war. We have lost 
3,351 American lives. I respect very much the Senator from Wyoming. He 
tries to make a point that it is not a civil war. My understanding of a 
civil war is when people of the same nation are at war with one 
another.

That, sadly, is the reality of what is going on in Iraq today--Iraqis 
killing one another while Americans stand in the midst of the 
crossfire. Had the President of the United States come to this Congress 
in October of 2002 and suggested we send 150,000 soldiers into Iraq for 
the purpose of refereeing a civil war or a religious war that had 
its origins in 14 centuries of anger, had he said to us we must stay as 
long as 5 years and spend $500 billion and risk thousands of American 
lives, with no end in sight, what were the chances we would have passed 
that resolution? None. That is not what the President told us.


He told us Iraq was a threat to the United States of America with 
weapons of mass destruction, and nuclear weapons, that somehow they had 
been in concert with al-Qaida, that led to 9/11. None of those things 
turned out to be true--not one of them.

On that basis, we authorized the President to go to war, and he 
decided to take a preventive course of action--not preemptive but 
preventive course of action--and invade this country before they 
threatened the United States. That is what we are in today.

Within 2 hours, the President will pick up a pen and have a chance to 
start bringing this to an end. If he signs this bill we have sent to 
him, it will mean that American soldiers can start coming home and 
that, equally important, the Iraqis understand it is now their country, 
their war, and their future, that they have to put their lives on the 
line and not rely on the bravery of our soldiers to keep their country 
intact.

If the President vetoes this bill, exactly the opposite message goes 
to the Iraqis. Its message: Continue business as usual. Continue 
waiting out the political opposition, not resolving your differences, 
really allowing this religious or civil war to become even worse.

The month of April was the deadliest month for American soldiers this 
year. We continue to see thousands of Iraqis killed each month in this 
country. The President, though he is limited in support for this 
position, continues to argue that with just a few more American 
soldiers, a little longer period of time, some more money, everything 
is going to get better. Many of us are skeptical. The American people 
believe--and I concur with their belief--we do need a timetable to 
start bringing American troops home on a responsible, reasonable basis.

I hope the President will reconsider. I hope he will sign this bill. 
I hope the troops will be funded and the direction of this war will 
change.

Madam President, this bill is for the Food and Drug Administration's 
reauthorization. This is an agency which is often overlooked. Madam 
President, $1.7 billion a year in a Federal budget is not a huge amount 
of money. There are many other agencies with less responsibility and 
more resources. The Food and Drug Administration is responsible for 
really determining the safety of so many things American families take 
for granted: when you are buying food, when you are buying drugs, when 
you are buying over-the-counter medicines. Many of the appliances you 
buy really have to be tested to be safe by the Food and Drug 
Administration. We count on this small agency to do a very big job and 
a job that gets bigger by the year.

The bill that is before us is basically the law which authorizes the 
Food and Drug Administration to do its business. I am glad we brought 
it to the floor. I salute Senator Enzi on the Republican side and 
Senator Kennedy on the Democratic side for their leadership.

The Food and Drug Administration is an essential guardian of the 
public's health and safety in America. In recent years, their 
reputation has been at risk because of incidents of drug safety 
problems and questions about their independence. The FDA has been 
faulted for neglecting its drug safety responsibilities and for failing 
to respond to concerns raised by its own drug safety specialists.

Experts have warned that the FDA does not have adequate authority to 
pull dangerous drugs off the market, mandate changes in drug labels, or 
sanction drug companies that do not monitor drug safety.

The most glaring example of a drug safety problem is the handling of 
Vioxx, a painkiller that was found to increase the risk of heart attack 
and stroke and was used by 20 million people across America. Merck was 
aware--the company that made Vioxx--that product raised the risk of 
cardiovascular problems, and they continued to market it, nevertheless, 
long before it stopped selling the drug in 2004. The episode has raised 
serious questions about FDA's ability to react quickly to signs of 
safety problems with drugs already on the market.

Listen to what one of FDA's own drug safety experts said in testimony 
before the Senate Finance Committee. I quote:




 I would argue that the FDA, as currently configured, is 


 incapable of protecting America against another Vioxx. We are 


 virtually defenseless.


That is quite a statement. It troubles me.

That concern of that individual does not stand alone. A survey of FDA 
scientists conducted last year by the Union of Concerned Scientists 
found the following: 47 percent of FDA scientists said their FDA office 
is less effective than it was 5 years ago; nearly 40 percent said the 
FDA is not acting effectively to protect public health; more than one-
third of FDA scientists said FDA officials care more about approving 
new drugs and devices than ensuring they are safe; and 15 percent


said they personally have been inappropriately asked to exclude or 
alter information or conclusions for nonscientific reasons. That is a 
horrible comment on an agency with the responsibility of the Food and 
Drug Administration.

Our priority must be to take this reauthorization as an opportunity 
to change the FDA. The bill does that. It restores balance between 
timely approval of innovative drugs and safety and effectiveness.

Problems with drug safety in recent years highlight the limits of 
FDA's ability to monitor and respond to safety problems that arise 
after approval. Safety problems may not be detected prior to FDA 
approval because the clinical trials FDA relies upon often involve only 
a few thousand people.

This bill, S. 1082, responds to this problem by making postapproval 
monitoring of drugs a core responsibility of the FDA, strengthening and 
clarifying the tools it has to make their products safer. The bill 
requires active monitoring for drug safety problems through the use of 
Federal and private databases. It creates a system for approving drugs 
with a specific strategy for evaluating and mitigating their risks. It 
promotes greater transparency by disclosing information on clinical 
trials.

These and other provisions in this bipartisan bill will help to 
restore public confidence in the FDA. S. 1082 will help FDA fulfill its 
crucial and complex mission. I look forward to supporting it.

One of the things most people do not realize is the major 
responsibility the Food and Drug Administration has for the food we 
eat.

Now, let me tell you at the outset, I am not capable, having served 
on Capitol Hill for a few years, to describe to the people who follow 
this debate what we call the food safety system in America. Imagine, if 
you will, that we have 12 to 15 different Federal agencies responsible 
for food safety. Imagine 30 different laws and legal standards for food 
safety, 40 or 50 different committees on Capitol Hill with 
jurisdiction, hundreds, if not thousands, of lobbyists and special 
interest groups hovering over this whole scene. Add to that thousands 
of Government workers and bureaucrats who are protecting their turf, 
and we have a system that is virtually out of control--not just when it 
comes to drugs, as important as they are, but when it comes to the food 
we eat.

I thank Chairman Kennedy and Senator Enzi and others for partnering 
with me on an amendment which I will offer as soon as I am given the 
green light by the chairman and the ranking member on the issue of food 
safety. I thank them for working with my staff for several months to 
come up with language to the deal with some serious challenges.

For too long, we have gone without updating the resources and 
authorities of the FDA in the area of food safety. I think our system 
has broken down. Now is the time for an appropriate amendment to close 
some of the gaps we have in our current system.

In the larger picture, I have been working on this issue for a long 
time. I said, over 10 years ago, we need a single food safety system.

I see Senator Lieberman from Connecticut on the floor. His House 
colleague, Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, herself a victim of food 
poisoning at an early age, has been my ally in this effort. We believe 
a single food safety system, based on science and not on politics, is 
the only answer. We need to do that and do it soon.

The amendment which I am going to offer does not reach that level. It 
does not achieve all of the goals we wanted to on a legal basis, but it 
moves us forward.

How important an issue is food safety? The Centers for Disease 
Control estimates that as many as 76 million people suffer from food 
poisoning each year. Thirty-two thousand Americans will be hospitalized 
each year for food poisoning; 5,000 will die. With emerging pathogens, 
an aging population, and an increasing volume of food imports, this 
situation isn't going to improve without decisive action.

I agree with Chairman Kennedy and Senator Enzi that we should proceed 
with the broad issue of food safety within general order, and I 
appreciate their willingness to work with me. The amendment is not what 
I hoped for in creating a single food safety agency, but it is a step 
forward.

The most recent news, of course, is about pet food, but believe me, 
it hasn't been that long ago when we talked about salmonella-
contaminated peanut butter and E. coli-contaminated spinach. If it 
seems as if these food crises are occurring more frequently, they are. 
We may have the safest food supply in the world, but the fact is, every 
parent, every family wants to have peace of mind that when they buy 
something at the grocery store, they can put it on the table, feed it 
to their family, and no one will get sick. There are questions that are 
being raised almost on a daily basis about whether we can have that 
confidence.

The issue that came up recently was on pet food. Batches of wheat 
gluten and rice protein concentrate contaminated with a chemical called 
melamine were imported from China by several shipping companies. We 
just learned over the last few days from stories printed in the press 
that melamine is regularly added to animal feed in China.

Why would they add a chemical called melamine to something they are 
going to feed to livestock? Well, it is a way to increase the value of 
the product. If there is more protein in the feed, then they can charge 
a higher price. When the food product is tested to see if there is 
protein, you look for the presence of nitrogen. The chemical, melamine, 
when added, tests for higher nitrogen levels, therefore they argue 
higher protein levels, therefore they argue they should be paid more. 
So it is an economic fraud. They have argued that this is a product 
that doesn't hurt people. We are not sure of that, but we do know that 
the animals that died as a result of contaminated pet food, some of 
them were found to have melamine in their system. It is a serious 
question as to whether it is toxic.

We know now that this pet food contamination has resulted in the 
deaths of more than 4,000 animals across America. This contaminated 
product came into America without inspection or without suspicion. The 
FDA did not have a memorandum of understanding with China or a 
certification that their standards for food safety were even close to 
those of the United States. The product made its way from the importer 
ChemNutra into various manufacturers of pet food. Menu Foods is a 
Canadian company. They make pet food under a dozen different labels. 
They learned on February 20 there was a problem. How did they know 
there was a problem? The cats and dogs told them. They stopped eating 
their food and they started getting sick.

So you own a company that has dozens of different pet food labels, 
and you notice that animals are getting sick. What is the responsible 
thing for a company to do at that time? Pull the product off the shelf 
and notify the Federal Government. They waited 3 weeks before they sent 
out a notification. By the time the Food and Drug Administration 
learned about this, there were millions of cans of pet food and other 
products under different labels spread all across America with this 
contaminated product. Three weeks they waited. Why? Because the law 
does not currently require them to report on a timely basis.

I asked the FDA last week: What is the penalty against Menu Foods for 
waiting 3 weeks? They said: Well, we are considering. We are talking to 
our counsel. We will get back to you. Months have passed. Nothing has 
happened. Menu Foods waited 3 weeks instead of reporting on a timely 
basis. By then, the product was all across America.

In the case of rice protein concentrate, there is less certainty. 
Importer Wilbur Ellis purchased product from the Binzhou Futian Company 
in China. It then distributed the product to a host of companies that 
produce pet food. These brands and labels have been recalled in a 
haphazard way over the past 3 weeks--again, delays in reporting. The 
FDA has even refused to name several companies for more than a week 
trying to get to the bottom of this investigation because the records 
process is so broken down at this agency.

One or more of the manufacturers sold some refuse pet food that it 
produced using contaminated product to hog farms in California and 
other States. These farms fed their hogs the


contaminated feed, some of which was sold to consumers and much more of 
it has been quarantined and is slated for destruction.

In addition, we just learned this week that 38 poultry farms in 
Indiana received contaminated feed. So the plot thickens, and the 
safety issue grows as we wonder if what was originally pet food is now 
being fed to livestock, and if humans consume the food what impact it 
will have.

There is a mystery importer involved as well from China that we have 
heard about but we can't identify yet. Supposedly this second importer 
purchased rice protein from the Chinese firm in question in larger 
quantities than the firm Wilbur Ellis.

In terms of the investigation in China, the FDA said: We want to send 
inspectors to China to see what they are sending to us. Well, first the 
Chinese said: We deny you the visas for your FDA inspectors. Imagine 
that. Millions of dollars worth of foodstuffs coming in from China, 
contaminated and poisoned, killing off pets, threatening human 
consumption, and when we say to the Chinese that we want to take a look 
at their production facilities, they denied us visas. I joined with 
Congresswoman DeLauro and sent a letter to the Chinese Embassy, and 
they reversed their position, offering the visas. We have to make it 
clear to China and every other country that if they want to do business 
with the United States, they will do it on our terms when it comes to 
health and safety. We will never allow them to compromise the safety 
and health of American citizens in the process.

The amendment I am going to offer--and I hope it will be accepted--
does several things based on what we have learned over the last 6 
weeks. First, during this recall, consumers, veterinarians, and 
retailers, among others, expressed concern about the scope of the 
recall, what products were included, or what not to feed to domestic 
animals. The FDA was slow, uneven, and inconsistent in sharing 
information on the recall. While there are mechanisms in place to 
proactively track human food-borne illnesses and then share 
information, no similar system exists for companion animals.


I visited the FDA pet food recall Web site the day before the March 
12 Agriculture appropriations hearing and found a jumble of corporate 
press releases. It was virtually unintelligible. I said to the FDA: 
Can't you make this information clearer so consumers can have the 
information they need to purchase these products? They took it to heart 
and made the changes. That is good.

In addition, following the recall, the FDA checked the records of 
companies such as Banfield, the largest privately owned veterinary 
hospital chain in the United States. The records kept showed a 
statistically significant increase in the instances of renal failures 
of cats. A system in place to track these events might have caught 
something like melamine earlier. So the amendment creates an early 
warning and surveillance system for companion animals and directs the 
Secretary to work with professional organizations, veterinarians, and 
others to disseminate information.

While we are at it, the amendment would direct the FDA, in cases of 
both pet food and human food, to keep up-to-date, comprehensive, 
searchable recall lists on their Web site.

Second, the amendment closes the gap that FDA itself identified in an 
earlier draft framework posted on its Web site in December of 2006. The 
guidances and practices that govern the pet food industry are currently 
generated by the American Association of Feed Control Officers, known 
as AAFCO. The guidelines on best practices and ingredient lists are 
updated annually and implemented on a voluntary basis by manufacturers 
and State departments of agriculture. However, there is no requirement 
under the law for States to adopt these practices, and they don't have 
the force of Federal guidelines. Inspections are not coordinated State 
to State, and some States have different standards. While the FDA 
participates in the AAFCO process, it does not provide a list of 
ingredients and additives. AAFCO's list is more comprehensive than the 
FDA's. Our amendment would direct the FDA to work with AAFCO and other 
stakeholders to give these guidelines the force of law.

Third, the amendment closes a loophole that this contamination has 
exposed with regard to our imports of food. The source of the 
contamination we know of was wheat gluten and rice protein concentrate 
originating in China. Neither shipment was inspected by the FDA. If you 
have some peace of mind or belief that a Federal inspector is watching 
food as it comes into the United States, the odds are 99 to 1 you are 
wrong. Only about 1 or 1.5 percent of all the shipments of food 
products coming into the United States are actually inspected.

As imports have increased the number of inspectors have decreased. 
This is an indication of U.S. food imports by country. As you can see, 
there have been dramatic increases in these fiscal years showing that 
the amount of food coming into the United States is increasing in 
volume. The number of inspectors who watch for this food to protect our 
families and consumers across America just hasn't kept pace.

In 2003, the United States imported $45.6 billion worth of 
agricultural products--in 2003; today, $64 billion. Agricultural 
imports from China have almost doubled in that period of time, from 
$1.2 billion to $2.1 billion. Due to flat budgets and increasing 
responsibilities, the overall number of FDA inspectors looking at these 
shipments and at domestic food processors has actually decreased from 
2003 to the present time; imports up, inspectors down.

Are we surprised at what has happened? The FDA doesn't have the 
resources or the authority to make sure what we are bringing in from 
overseas is safe. We need to tackle it in a larger bill.

What our amendment does is close the loophole by improving data 
collection and reporting. It creates an FDA database of food 
adulterants that would be filled by FDA inspectors as well as importers 
of food. The extra series of data points would better pick out trends 
and help FDA do a better risk-based inspection job. It also creates a 
system in which adulterations are reported quickly so as to prevent 
contamination from spreading. This would have helped in this most 
recent case, but because of delays in reporting it led to an expansion 
of recalled product into dozens of different companies and got 
perilously close to the human food chain. The data would then be used 
by the Secretary to issue import alerts, blocking similar risky 
products.

I have also pursued a separate track on the issue of resources for 
FDA by sending a letter to Chairman Kohl of Wisconsin and Senator 
Bennett of Utah requesting additional resources for food inspection at 
the Food and Drug Administration. I hope my colleagues will join me in 
that effort.

Also, I am filing an amendment that would authorize a study on user 
fees for food producers. It is vital that we explore various revenue 
streams for the FDA in light of the shortage of resources they have for 
inspection.


The last two items in my amendment are a sense of the Senate and a 
clarification that companies are required to maintain records and make 
them accessible to the FDA as part of an investigation. This latter 
item would prevent delays that keep contaminations from being known as 
quickly as possible. In the case of recalled peanut butter this past 
winter, an FDA report showed that inspectors were denied documents when 
they were requested. The language would clarify that when the FDA makes 
the inspection, it will have access to those documents needed for 
purposes of safeguarding the food supply.

The sense-of-the-Senate language goes beyond this amendment and this 
bill, stating that it is vital to update resources, direction, and 
authorities of the FDA to better safeguard our food supply. The sense 
of the Senate directs the FDA to work with our trading partners to 
establish cooperative agreements.

Several weeks ago, Robert Brackett, Director of the FDA's food arm, 
said:




 These outbreaks point to a need to completely overhaul the 


 way the agency does business.


I am thankful the sponsors of this legislation for the 
reauthorization of the Food and Drug Administration understand that 
expanding the scope of our debate on this bill to include food safety 
is overdue.

Mr. Brackett went on to say:







 We have 60,000 to 80,000 facilities that we are responsible 


 for in any given year. We have to get out of the 1950s 


 paradigm.


Dr. Stephen Sundlof, Director of the Center for Veterinary Medicine 
of FDA, which has jurisdiction for pet food, implied as much when he 
was quoted last month as saying:




 In this case, we're going to have to look at this after the 


 dust settles and determine if there is something from a 


 regulatory standpoint that we could have done differently to 


 prevent this incident from occurring.


I couldn't agree more. This is a situation where we need one food 
safety agency, not driven by the politics of Washington but driven by 
science, to make sure the food fed to our children, the food fed to our 
pets, or any food served in America is as safe as possible. As we 
import more food with fewer inspectors, the risk increases.

I might add that we have looked at the pet food contamination and 
others from the aspect of greed and negligence. In the instance of 
China, they were adulterating their product with a chemical so that it 
was worth more in the marketplace. That is economic fraud. In the 
instance of spinach and peanut butter, we are dealing with negligence--
negligence that results in a deadly product being sold across America. 
But we can't stop there, unfortunately. In the world we live in, with 
the vulnerabilities we have, food could also become a terrorist weapon. 
That may sound far-fetched to some, but when Governor Tommy Thompson 
left the Bush Cabinet, he said in parting that he found it hard to 
imagine why the terrorists had not attacked our food supply. He said he 
worried about it on a regular basis.

We have to have inspection standards in place that mitigate against 
greed and negligence and the possibility of someone intentionally 
contaminating our food supply, causing terrible suffering and death 
across America.

That is why this amendment is a step in the direction for a safer 
food supply. I sincerely hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle 
will support my efforts.

I yield the floor.