# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2965, DON'T  ASK, DON'T TELL REPEAL ACT OF 2010
## `d23bc5817f188b4afa8afbb8af299c6e`
`Ms. PINGREE of Maine — 15 December 2010`

---


Ms. PINGREE of Maine. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague from the 
other side of the aisle for his thoughts on this. He is getting ready 
to retire from Congress. I just want to say I've enjoyed the 
opportunity to serve with you on the Rules Committee and appreciate the 
thoughts that you bring to the issues that we have to deal with.

With all due respect, I want to disagree with you on one particular 
point, as I did earlier today in the Rules Committee, and without 
questioning anything that you had to say today, I will just say that my 
experience on the issue of Don't Ask, Don't Tell, whether it is in my 
position as sitting on the Armed Services Committee or with some of my 
colleagues on the Rules Committee who have questioned this particular 
bill as the vehicle, it is that sometimes I feel like people run out of 
substantive arguments and they go back to process and they say, well, 
there's something flawed about this process.

And over the 2 years that I've been here, as we've been discussing a 
piece of law that no longer works, that shouldn't be in law, that tells 
people who are gay or lesbian that they can no longer serve in the 
military, for the past 2 years I've heard over and over again, well, 
this is a flawed process. So as a member of the Armed Services 
Committee, even though my good colleague Representative Davis held 
subcommittee hearings on this issue and there has been much discussion 
of it, people said, well, we need to have a study.

So we got a study. It's a big, thick study. It's a wonderfully well 
done study. And when I had the opportunity just recently to sit in the 
Armed Services Committee and listen to the briefing by the military on 
the work they had done in this study, I have to say, I was very 
impressed. Something like 150,000 people participated in this study.

Now, as my colleagues know, when you're a Member of Congress or a 
challenger running, you're lucky to have a poll of 400 people to get 
their opinion. Maybe sometimes the poll has 1,200 people, and we take 
that as public opinion. But to ask 150,000 people associated with the 
military ''So, what do you think?'' is quite a piece of work, and I 
think it was extremely well done.

And what we were told that day in that briefing was, overwhelmingly, 
our military said, you know, this is just fine. Many of them said: I 
already know. I serve alongside someone who is a gay or lesbian member 
of the Armed Forces, and it doesn't bother us at all. It isn't 
interfering with unit cohesion or ability to fight. People said 
overwhelmingly: What is taking so long to change this particular 
provision in law?

So I look at this and I say, whether it's the vehicle that we have 
before us today--today, in some of the final days of this particular 
Congress; today, when I think we have to act with urgency here in this 
House, after this House has already passed this provision in the Armed 
Services, in the general authorization bill. We've already passed this 
once. We've already shown that we're in favor of this here. Now, it's 
back again as a standalone to make it easier for people to deal with 
this as an individual issue--to go back and say, well, it's all about 
the process, we haven't had enough process, I think shows great 
disrespect to those members of our Armed Forces and their leaders who 
have said to us: Change this, move on, get it done so those 13,000-plus 
soldiers who have already been told they can no longer serve in the 
military and we've lost the ability to use their expertise and their 
training and their patriotism in this country, to say that there isn't 
urgency today and that we should somehow allow a process argument to 
slow us down doesn't make any sense.

I very proudly come from the State of Maine, and something like 17 
percent of our 1.3 million residents in Maine are either active duty 
personnel or veterans who have served this country. I go home and hear 
the people in my district, whether I'm talking to a veterans' group or 
someone who's just on their way to serve in Afghanistan or coming back 
or, sadly, sometimes at a military funeral, and people do not say to 
me, Prohibit gay and lesbian people from serving in the military. 
People say to me in my home district, in a State that is very dedicated 
to serving the military, they say, When are you going to end this 
process of discrimination?

And that is why we are here today. We are here to move forward on the


rule, to make sure that once and for all this House of Representatives, 
again, says let's repeal Don't Ask, Don't Tell. Let's remember that 
this is a threat to our national security, that it's disrespectful of 
all of our soldiers, that there will be no serious ramifications of 
this, and, in fact, our military is very well prepared and has good 
plans to move forward on this transition.

Let's remember that this is the patriotic vote to cast. This is the 
vote for national security. This is the vote for respecting the 
investment we have made in these soldiers. This is a vote for 
increasing recruitment in our military and saying to even more members 
who currently are unsure, saying to more people who are unsure about 
whether or not they should join the military because they worry that 
they would possibly be out of it, it's a measure to say we welcome you.

Our Armed Services will be only stronger when we repeal Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell. I encourage my colleagues to vote ''yes'' on the previous 
question and on the rule.

I yield back the balance of my time, and I move the previous question 
on the resolution.

The previous question was ordered.