---
---

# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `d2416de64c22dd969116df77578c8e43`
`Mr. BOSWELL — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. BOSWELL. Thank you, Chairman Filner, and all of you on the 
Veterans Committee that worked together on this, both sides of the 
aisle. We are doing the right thing, and we know that.

I would associate myself with all the comments that have been made 
from Chairman Filner and Mr. Miller and all the rest, so I will not try 
to repeat them. But I might just share a little bit to whoever might be 
watching about why this bill came to pass.

As we all know, a number of veterans returning from Afghanistan and 
Iraq, particularly Iraq, this phenomena is taking place, perhaps more 
so than ever before in our history. It is a concerning thing. All 
wounds are not visible. I think it has been a little hard for us to 
realize that we have to recognize this, and we are doing it.

I just want to share with you some many, many months ago, when I had 
the occasion to respond to the Omvig family in Grundy Center, Iowa, not 
too far from Waterloo, and you will be hearing from Mr. Braley shortly, 
I went and talked to them and realized the suffering they were feeling. 
This family, this father and this mother, Randy and Ellen, their son 
came home after 11 months, someone they loved very much, of course as 
all parents do, and they realized something was wrong, wasn't right. 
They wanted to do anything they could to help, but the frustration of 
not knowing what to do, trying to help, not knowing what to do, not 
having professional help, others reaching out in the community and so 
on, keeping Joshua as close as they possibly could, and knowing that 
things were not going well.

And then one tragic morning, as he left to go to work, and his mother 
was right there with him, and walked out to his pick-up truck, rolled 
up the window, with his mother standing just outside the window, and 
took his life. It should never have happened.

In this day of technology, we can test our young men and women going 
in and coming out of the services, and the technicians and the experts 
tell us that they can identify with a test they give that a person is 
suspect to this situation, the possibility of wanting to commit 
suicide. They say over 1 out of 100 give it consideration coming back 
from Iraq.



Now, if we have that ability to test, and we do, then it is 
appropriate that we take these steps that we are taking today to cause 
and affect our Veterans Administration to follow up and follow through 
and save every life we possibly can. We can't bring Joshua back, but we 
can do all we can possibly do to prevent it from happening to others.

So I am very appreciative today. I of course rise in strong support 
of this. And I do this in the name of Joshua, by the name of Randy and 
Ellen. I know the day I sat with them in a little restaurant in Grundy 
Center, we talked about what we were trying to shape into this bill. I 
wasn't sure I should, but then I asked them, I said would you mind if 
we named this after your son? They kind of looked at each other and 
talked about it, and they said they would be honored.

Now, they are continuing in their grieving, but they are reaching out 
to others. The calls they are getting to help others to get through 
this situation is a good thing. They are stepping forward and doing 
that, and I am very proud of them. So I hope we can get this message to 
them that we are responding, and the time is now.

Please support this bill. Thank you so very much.

With more and more veterans returning from tours of duty in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, many new issues have arisen regarding veterans' mental 
health care that has not received attention in the past.

Some estimates have found that almost 1,000 veterans receiving care 
from the Department of Veterans Affairs commit suicide each year and 
one out of five suicides in the United States is a veteran. We must do 
better for our veterans and I believe this legislation is a step in the 
right direction.

This legislation grew out of a great tragedy. Almost a year ago I 
learned of a young man from Grundy Center, IA, Joshua Omvig, who 
experienced undiagnosed PTDS after returning from an 11-month tour in 
Iraq. His friends and family, mother and father Ellen and Randy, knew 
he was having a hard time adjusting to civilian life but did not know 
how to help him. Help was not available. Then, in December of 2005, 
Joshua tragically took his life. He was only 22 years old. Over the 
past year I have learned that Joshua was sadly not a unique case. After 
I heard Joshua's story I was shocked to find that one in 100 Operation 
Iraqi Freedom veterans have reported thinking about suicide.

We treat their physical wounds; now it is time to also treat their 
mental ones. All wounds are not visible.

I'd like to say a few words about Joshua's parents, Randy and Ellen 
Omvig. Out of their personal loss they have championed a cause to help 
all veterans and their family members. I have met with the Omvigs on 
numerous occasions; most recently I saw them this past Sunday, and I'm 
so impressed by their commitment to help others--the young men and 
women who have served our country. They are true heroes.

I am proud to stand here in support of this bill and I encourage the 
House to pass H.R. 327 today and ensure all veterans receive the care 
they need. Not all wounds inflicted in combat are visible, now is the 
time to treat them.