---
---

# MICHAEL A. MARZANO DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OUTPATIENT CLINIC
## `d242609d91615d7d0c62e4163e740b67`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I thank the chairman.

This legislation designates the Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic at 
Hermitage, Pennsylvania, as the Michael A. Marzano Department of 
Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic. I was pleased to join with my 
friend and colleague, Congressman Phil English, last year in 
introducing this legislation, which will pay tribute to the service and 
sacrifice of a true Western Pennsylvania hero, Marine Corps Sergeant 
Michael Marzano.

A native of Greenville, Pennsylvania, Michael Marzano grew up with 
the dream of becoming a marine. Upon graduating from Sharon High 
School, Marzano applied to the U.S. Marine Corps and was initially 
denied entry because of a knee injury he suffered his senior year in 
high school. Determined to fulfill his dream, Marzano underwent surgery 
to correct the condition and continued to reapply to the U.S. Marine 
Corps until he was finally accepted 4 years later in 1999.

In December 2004, now Sergeant Marzano reiterated his commitment to 
the Nation by volunteering for a tour of duty in Iraq. But tragically, 
on May 8, 2005, after serving only 2 months in Iraq, the 28-year-old 
Sergeant Michael Marzano was killed by a suicide bomber while taking 
part in an offensive against insurgents in the city of Haditha, al 
Anbar province, in Iraq. He was the first soldier from Mercer County, 
Pennsylvania, to give his life in Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Following the incident, which also claimed the lives of three other 
brave American servicemembers, Sergeant Marzano's commanding officer 
recalled Sergeant Marzano's leadership and bravery, stating, ''Many 
more lives were saved due to their sacrifice.''

Mr. Speaker, Michael Marzano is a true American hero and was a very 
special individual. By renaming this outpatient clinic, we will honor 
Sergeant Marzano's memory and recognize his bravery and sacrifice. 
Sergeant Marzano is representative of all those who have worn the 
uniform proudly, upheld the military's tradition of courage and 
faithful service, and once stood ready, if duty required, to make the 
ultimate sacrifice.

I thank Chairman Filner for his willingness to bring this bill to the 
floor, and I especially thank my friend and colleague Congressman 
English for his leadership in introducing this legislation.