# None
## `d2473eb50f4d620b67a4827f46c82c68`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. This evening, we have heard some talk about 
the war that we're engaged in, the fighting in Iraq, the fighting in 
Afghanistan, this long war against Islamist extremists that we're 
engaged in. And tonight I am very pleased I am joined by a number of my 
colleagues here this evening to talk a little bit about that military 
action, to talk about that war and to talk about the military leaders 
that we are so blessed to have in this country.

I think sometimes we sort of forget that there are people who have 
devoted their entire lives to serving this country and to providing 
exemplary leadership to our young men and women as they fight for us in 
Iraq and Afghanistan and around the world. We have some new officers in 
the lineup, and we will talk very briefly about those tonight, I 
suppose. We have a new commander of Central Command, Admiral William 
Fallon. We have, of course, General David Petraeus, named by the 
President to be the senior U.S. commander of the multinational forces 
in Iraq and confirmed unanimously, I might add, by the Members of the 
Senate. Lieutenant General Raymond Odierno, and other fine officers 
that are leading our young men and women.

I know some of my colleagues would like to talk about one of the 
officers who is going to be leaving that chain of command, the very 
fine Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the first Marine Corps 
officer ever to hold that position, my good friend and a great 
American, General Peter Pace.

I would like to afford a few minutes to my friend and colleague from 
South Carolina who I know has some words he wants to say about my 
friend, Pete, and give us a little idea of what his biography is.

I yield to the gentleman.