# None
## `d24c94227ac2cda5671ac0ca5813b627`
`Mr. LEVIN — 9 December 2010`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, we have enacted the National Defense 
Authorization Act every year for the last 48 years. We need to do the 
same thing this year.

This year's bill would continue the increases in compensation and 
quality of life that our service men and women and their families 
deserve as they face the hardships imposed by continuing military 
operations around the world.

For example, the bill would extend over 30 types of bonuses and 
special pays aimed at encouraging enlistment, reenlistment, and 
continued service by active-duty and reserve military personnel.

The bill would authorize continued TRICARE coverage for eligible 
dependents of servicemembers up to the age of 26.

The bill will improve care for our wounded warriors by addressing 
inequities in rules for involuntary administrative separations based on 
medical conditions and requiring new education and training programs on 
the use of pharmaceuticals for patients in wounded warrior units, and 
it will authorize the service secretaries to waive maximum age 
limitations to enable certain highly qualified enlisted members who 
served in Operation Iraqi Freedom or Operation Enduring Freedom to 
enter the military service academies.

The bill would also include important funding and authorities needed 
to provide our troops the equipment and support that they will continue 
to need as long as they remain on the battlefield in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. For example, the bill would enhance the military's ability 
to rapidly acquire and field new capabilities in response to urgent 
needs on the battlefield by expanding DOD's authority to waive 
statutory requirements when urgently needed to save lives on the 
battlefield.

The bill will fully fund the President's request for $11.6 billion to 
train and equip the Afghan National Army and Afghan police--growing the 
capabilities of these security forces to prepare them to take over 
increased responsibilities for Afghanistan's security by the July 2011 
date established by the President for the beginning of reductions in 
U.S. forces at that time.

The bill will extend for one more year the authority for the 
Secretary of Defense to transfer equipment coming out of Iraq as our 
troops withdraw to the security forces of Iraq and Afghanistan, 
providing an important tool for our commanders looking to accelerate 
the growth and capability of these security forces.

The bill also includes important legislative provisions that would 
promote the Department of Defense cybersecurity and energy security 
efforts--two far-reaching initiatives that should help strengthen our 
national defense and our Nation.

If we fail to act on this bill, we will not be able to provide the 
Department of Defense with critical new authorities and extensions of 
existing authorities that it needs to safeguard our national security. 
For example, without this bill, the Department of Defense will either 
lose the authority it has requested to support counter-drug activities 
of foreign governments, use premium pay to encourage civilian employees 
to accept dangerous assignments in Iraq and Afghanistan, and


provide assistance to the Yemeni counterterrorism unit. A failure by 
the Senate to provide these important authorities could have serious 
consequences for the success or failure of ongoing military operations 
around the world.

I recognize this bill includes a handful of contentious provisions on 
which there is disagreement in the Senate. Some of those provisions I 
support and others I objected to and voted against in committee.

One of those provisions is the one that would repeal don't ask, don't 
tell 60 days after the President, the Secretary of Defense, and 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff certify to Congress that 
implementation of repeal is consistent with the standards of military 
readiness, military effectiveness, unit cohesion, and recruiting and 
retention in the Armed Forces.

The Armed Services Committee held two excellent hearings last week to 
consider the final report of the working group that reviewed the issues 
associated with the repeal of don't ask, don't tell.

The report concluded that allowing gay men and women to serve in the 
U.S. Armed Forces without being forced to conceal their sexual 
orientation would present a low risk to the military effectiveness, 
even during a time of war, and that 70 percent of surveyed 
servicemembers believe that the impact on their units would be 
positive, mixed, or of no consequence at all.

General Casey, Chief of Staff of the Army, testified that the 
presumption underpinning don't ask, don't tell is that ''the presence 
of a gay or lesbian servicemember in a unit causes an unacceptable risk 
to good order and discipline.'' Then he said, ''After reading this 
report, I don't believe that's true anymore, and I don't believe a 
substantial majority of our soldiers believe that's true.''

After considering the report, Secretary of Defense Gates urged 
Congress to pass this legislation this year, so that the repeal of 
don't ask, don't tell could be implemented in a well-prepared and well-
considered manner, rather than by abrupt judicial fiat, which he 
described as ''by far the most disruptive and damaging scenario [he] 
can imagine.''

To the extent that some of the service chiefs expressed concern about 
the repeal of don't ask, don't tell, their concerns focused on the 
timing of the repeal and adequacy of time to prepare for 
implementation, rather than on repeal itself. Secretary Gates testified 
that he ''would not make his certification until [he] was satisfied, 
with the advice of the service chiefs, that we had in fact mitigated, 
if not eliminated to the extent possible, risks to combat readiness, to 
unit cohesion and effectiveness.'' All of the service chiefs testified 
that they were comfortable with the ability to provide military advice 
to Secretary Gates and have that advice heard.

The only method of repeal that places the timing of the repeal and 
the control of implementation in the hands of the military and the 
Department of Defense is the provision contained in this bill. By 
contrast, if don't ask, don't tell is repealed by a court decision, the 
service chiefs will have no influence over the timing of repeal or the 
implementation of the repeal.

Despite differing views over this and other provisions where there 
are differences of opinion, we should not deny the Senate the 
opportunity to take up this bill, which is so essential for the men and 
women in the military, because we disagree with some provisions of the 
bill. These are legitimate issues for debate, and I believe the Senate 
should debate this. But the only way we can debate and vote on these 
issues is if the Senate proceeds to the bill. The disputed provisions 
can be addressed through the amendment process.


Madam President, as you well know, this is a crucial matter for 
resolution. Our Presiding Officer has played an instrumental role in 
getting the don't ask, don't tell issue before this body and before the 
country. I commend her for that. We need to resolve it. The only way to 
resolve it is to get to the bill.

We currently have 50,000 U.S. soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines 
on the ground in Iraq and roughly twice that many in Afghanistan. While 
there are some issues on which we may disagree, we all know that we 
must provide our troops with the support they need as long as they 
remain in harm's way. Senate action on the National Defense 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2011 will improve the quality of life 
of our men and women in uniform. It will give them the tools they need 
to remain the most effective fighting force in the world. Most 
important of all, it will send an important message that we, as a 
nation, stand behind them and appreciate their service.

This bill runs some 850 pages. The House bill--the counterpart bill--
runs more than a thousand pages. Even if we get 60 votes today to 
invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to this bill, and even if we 
are able to consider amendments and pass this bill in a few days, it 
will be possibly an insurmountable challenge to work out all of the 
differences with the House. Over the last 10 years, it has taken an 
average of 75 days to conference the Defense authorization bill with 
the House after we pass it. If we don't proceed on this bill this week, 
then invoking cloture sometime next week--even if we can do it--would 
be a symbolic victory. I don't believe there would be enough time to 
hammer out a final bill before the end of the session.

I don't believe in symbolic victories. This bill is a victory for the 
people in uniform. It is essential for the people in uniform. We should 
not act symbolically in their name and for their sake; we should act in 
reality. But the only way this will be real, and that the repeal of 
don't ask, don't tell--assuming we continue to keep it in the bill--
will be real is if we proceed to this bill this week. We cannot and 
should not delay this vote any longer.

I yield the floor and ask unanimous consent that the time on the 
quorum that I will call for be equally divided between both sides.