# DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS
## `d24dbb51f1d6c5e3f0601a9a6c882ce4`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 29 September 2009`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, this afternoon we resume 
consideration of the Defense appropriations bill, and among our most 
immediate concerns are the protection of our troops and allies in 
Afghanistan and the success of our mission there.

The President's pick to lead our efforts in Afghanistan, GEN Stanley 
McChrystal, has made clear that more forces are necessary to accomplish 
the mission. And while the administration has not yet reacted to 
General McChrystal's report, in my view, the President must soon 
explain to the American people his reasons either for accepting The 
McChrystal Plan or for taking a different course.

Timing is important. A failure to act decisively in response to 
General McChrystal's strategy, and his anticipated request for 
additional forces, could serve to undermine some of the good decisions 
the President has made on national security.

That said, no President decides to commit troops lightly; all such 
decisions have far-reaching consequences. And that is why General 
McChrystal and General Petraeus should also come to Washington to 
explain to Congress and to the American people how their strategy will 
work. A counterinsurgency strategy will require a significant 
investment in time, troops, and resources. We need an explanation from 
our generals why that investment is needed.

The recent disruption of an alleged al-Qaida plot against America was 
a reminder to all of us of the seriousness and urgency of our efforts 
in Afghanistan. There should be no doubt that al-Qaida remains a 
serious threat. We cannot allow al-Qaida to establish a safe haven in 
the very place where it plotted and planned the 9/11 attacks.

The Taliban is gaining ground in Afghanistan. And our commanders in 
the field are in the best position to tell us what is required to 
complete their mission. General McChrystal says that without adequate 
resources, we will likely fail. In my view, we should listen to his 
advice. And hopefully, we will be able to get that advice in person in 
a timely manner.

I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.