---
---

# IRAN SANCTIONS ACT OF 1996 AMENDMENTS
## `d25da9484caca7926bf587f3a121b0d1`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
resolution and yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the distinguished chairman of the 
Foreign Affairs Committee, the gentleman from California (Mr. Lantos) 
and our distinguished senior ranking member, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, for 
their sponsorship of this bipartisan measure and for their leadership 
on the issue of Iran.

The dangerous Iranian regime presents us with the overriding long-
term issue facing the entire Middle East. The scoundrel, Mahmoud 
Ahmadinejad, and his theocratic cohorts are working to destabilize 
security worldwide with their nuclear weapons program. They are 
targeting Israel specifically through sponsorship of terror groups. And 
according to Tehran's own claims, several batteries of missiles.

So the most important foreign policy security aim of the United 
States Government must be to prevent nuclear weapons from ever falling 
into the hands of Iran. It would destabilize the entire world. That is 
why the Foreign Affairs Committee has repeatedly passed bills to choke 
the regime in Tehran so it never gets to that point.

If there is one long-term lesson of the Iraq war, Mr. Speaker, it is 
that all other means must be exhausted before military use is employed. 
This is what we aim to do in the Iran issue, tough sanctions, 
cooperation with our allies, and diplomacy.

The amendment to the Iran Sanctions Act before the House today 
restores text that was in the original version of the Iran Sanctions 
legislation passed overwhelmingly by the House last session. 
Unfortunately, following White House negotiations with the Republican 
majority at the time, this provision was removed from a subsequent 
version of the bill that actually became law.

This amendment plugs critical loopholes, actual and potential, for 
the current legislation that could allow Iran to conduct an end-around 
on our sanctions. The legislation is intended to truly and fully 
deprive Iran of revenue it needs to fuel its nuclear weapons program.

The bill before us would fortify current law and enhance the ability 
of our government to deter foreign investment in Iran's energy 
industry. It expands the definition used to apply to businesses so that 
we may restrict anyone and everyone intending to help fuel Iran's sham 
of an energy industry.

It is more than lamentable that the administration, in fact, has 
never once availed itself of the potent tools that the Iran Sanctions 
Act offers to deter such investment. But the administration can rest 
assured that we will hold its feet to the fire in this session.

For the sake of U.S. interests and for world peace, both the 
executive branch and the Congress must do everything in its power to 
prevent the emergence of a nuclear-armed Iran. Congress cannot do it 
alone. So it is for these reasons that I again commend my dear friend, 
the ranking member, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, for her cosponsorship of this 
bipartisan legislation and her leadership in the noble effort to 
prevent a fanatical regime from acquiring nuclear weapons has been 
outstanding.

As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I am proud to be part 
of that effort. I strongly support this legislation, and I urge my 
colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.