---
---

# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `d267107df1280fab4c068c9ce4e82040`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 4 February 2008`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, last month I traveled to dozens of 
communities throughout my State. I actually visited 47 counties in 
Minnesota in January, from towns on our southern border with Iowa to 
towns way up on our northern border with Canada. I saw a lot of great 
entrepreneurial activity out there. I got to see ethanol plants. I was 
with Senator Conrad in North Dakota for his entrepreneurial forum. I 
got to jump on solar panels to show that hail doesn't hurt solar panels 
in Starbuck, MN.

What I heard from people throughout our State--and I think what we 
are hearing from people throughout America--is that Washington must 
provide a new direction to address the Nation's priorities and solve 
our economic challenges. They know what is happening. There has been a 
doubling of foreclosure rates in rural Minnesota. We have seen rising 
energy prices, as my colleagues can imagine when it is so cold. I was 
in International Falls, where it gets to be 10 below zero. In 
International Falls, it is pretty cold. In Embarrass, MN, it can get 
pretty cold.

There are also skyrocketing health costs. I heard about that not just 
from individual families and workers but from small businesses that are 
having trouble keeping their employees on health care plans or big 
businesses that are having trouble competing internationally because of 
the costs of health care.

What people told me out there is they need new solutions and new 
priorities from Washington.

What I want to talk about today is, first of all, the President's 
budget and how it doesn't give us new solutions, it doesn't give us new 
priorities, and then our own stimulus package that is so important to 
push through this Congress and not to be obstructed.


The President's budget continues a familiar pattern of misplaced 
priorities. It continues a 7-year pattern of fiscal irresponsibility, 
borrowing money and then leaving an ever-larger debt to our children. 
In just 7 years, this administration took a budget surplus of $158 
billion and turned it into what will soon be a budget deficit of 
something like $300 billion, $400 billion. It is quite an 
accomplishment. Meanwhile, this new budget continues to neglect 
critical investments that are needed to strengthen our economy and our 
Nation in a very difficult time. It does not make the investments we 
need in our Nation's transportation infrastructure. It does not make 
the investments we need in developing renewable energy sources to move 
us toward greater independence and security. It does not make the 
investments we need to get new technology to solve our climate change 
problem--what I call building a bridge to the 21st century. It doesn't 
do that. It doesn't make the investment we need in the basic medical 
and scientific research that has always been a key driver of our 
country's innovation and growth. It doesn't include a shift in these 
priorities, and it also doesn't include how we are going to pay for it.

When I went around our State in January, people were willing to talk 
about reform. They are willing to talk about rolling back some of these 
Bush tax cuts on the wealthiest people--people making over $200,000, 
$250,000 a year--so we can actually pay for some of the investments we 
need in our State. People out in rural Minnesota said: Fine by me. Roll 
back those tax cuts on people making over $200,000 a year. That is not 
me. Meanwhile, I have a road that I can't even go on because it has so 
many potholes and that has a shoulder that is going downhill where four 
people were killed in the last few months. I am happy if you can put 
some money into infrastructure.

Here are a few examples in Minnesota of how the President got the 
budget wrong. I think people are well aware of our tragic bridge 
collapse. That was only six blocks from my house, when a bridge just 
fell down in the middle of a summer day in the middle of America. It 
was a tragic wake-up call that the Nation's bridges are deteriorating 
faster than we can repair or replace them. So what does the 
administration do in its budget? It reduces funding for the Federal 
highway construction fund.

Minnesota is home to premier medical institutions such as the Mayo 
Clinic and the University of Minnesota that conduct breakthrough 
research on lifesaving cures. Many of the researchers at these 
institutions depend on Federal funding. So what does this 
administration do in its budget? What was I going to tell the people in 
our State, when I met with them at the Mall of America, who are trying 
to find a cure for children's diabetes, for the parents who met with me 
as we see autism on the rise and we are trying to find a cure or the 
people on the Alzheimer's ward? What does the President say to them? 
Well, for the sixth year in a row, it freezes funding for the National 
Institutes of Health, the Nation's leading medical research agency that 
provides essential funding to doctors and scientists.

The budget also cuts health care services. For example, the 
administration is calling for an 86-percent cut in funding for rural 
health programs, including rural health outreach grants and the Rural 
Hospital Flexibility Grant Program.

I can tell my colleagues what I heard when I was up in Brickstown, 
MN. I was up there. They have a hospital. They have one surgeon--one 
surgeon. You have to go miles and miles and miles to find another 
hospital. You can see towns miles and miles away, it is so flat up 
there. But they have this one hospital that is so important to their 
area. The surgeon is reaching retirement age. He might even want to 
retire now, but he can't because they can't find another surgeon to go 
up there. If they don't find another surgeon, they are not going to be 
able to have babies born in that hospital because they don't have a 
doctor who can do a C-section.

Much of my State is rural despite the thriving metropolitan area we 
have in the Twin Cities and thriving places such as Moorhead and 
Rochester and Duluth, and we have these rural hospitals and health care 
providers that depend on this Federal funding to provide services for 
the rural residents of my State. It is not just a nicety; it is a 
necessity.

In Minnesota, we are on the leading edge of the renewable energy 
revolution that promises to transform our economy and lead us toward 
greater energy security and independence. So what does the 
administration do in this budget? It cuts funding for solar energy 
research, hydropower, and industrial energy efficiency. It also cuts 
Department of Agriculture programs that are important for developing 
new farm-based energy sources such as biomass and cellulosic ethanol.

Now, we heard the President at the State of the Union talking about 
moving to this new energy era. Well, put the money where the mouth is. 
It is not there. How are we going to stop spending $200,000 a minute on 
foreign oil if we are cutting the possibility of research into things 
such as cellulosic ethanol which, if done right with prairie grass, 
which puts carbon back into our soil, will allow the prairie grass to 
be grown on marginal farmland? This is the direction we need to go but 
not if we are going to cut funding. We have seen these wind turbines in 
our State where people are so excited they have wind turbines 
everywhere, wind turbine manufacturing, but every time the wind tax 
credit goes away, the investment stops about 8 months earlier because 
it is like a game of red light-green light: They don't know what is 
happening. So this is what the administration does.

This budget would shut down the U.S. Department of Agriculture's 
North Central Soil Conservation Research Lab in Morris, MN. That was 
one of the places I visited in January. This lab, on the University of 
Minnesota campus, is at the forefront of research and development to 
promote homegrown renewable energy. This is our energy future, but you 
would hardly know it from looking at the President's budget.

Finally, as I mentioned, it has been a little cold in Minnesota. It 
did get up to 10 degrees below zero one day, but it was down to 20 
degrees below zero in Embarrass about a week ago. Nationwide, the 
average household is expected to pay 11 percent more for heating this 
winter compared to last year. Families who rely on home heating oil are 
facing record prices 30 to 50 percent above last winter.

What does the administration do in its budget? It cuts in half the 
emergency funding for the low-income heating assistance program. This 
is a program which enjoys bipartisan support.


It provides much needed help to seniors and families who are struggling 
with ever-rising heating costs. Maybe the President thinks we are going 
to have so much global warming that we don't need this heating, I don't 
know. While these prices are going up and you are in the middle of 
winter, you shouldn't cut the heating program. I hope the next 
President see things differently.

I believe deeply in the importance of fiscal responsibility. I 
support the pay-as-you-go rule for budgeting. My husband and I keep our 
financial house in order, and we think the Government should too. If 
you want to talk about fiscal responsibility, you don't have it in this 
budget. There is no willingness to talk about doing things differently. 
Do we want a budget that offers tax giveaways to the wealthy or one 
that provides relief to middle-class families who are squeezed by the 
rising costs of housing, energy, health care, and tuition? You know 
what happened on the AMT debate. We voted to pay for it by taking money 
away from the hedge fund operators, but the other side would not do it. 
Do we want to give lucrative favors to the rich and the corporations, 
or do we want to invest in our future prosperity, in things such as 
research and development and renewable energy?

Instead of investing in the oil cartels in the Mideast, we need to 
invest in the farmers and workers of the Midwest--maybe a few in 
Vermont, as well, Mr. President. Do we want a budget that continues to 
send tens of billions of dollars to Iraq--I think it is $12 billion a 
month--or do we want a budget that provides our local and State law 
enforcement with the resources they need to protect public safety here 
at home?

I want to see an administration that aims for fiscal responsibility 
by rolling back the tax cuts for the wealthiest people making over 
$200,000 or $250,000 a year.

I would like to see an administration that aims for fiscal 
responsibility by eliminating offshore tax havens for 
multimillionaires.

I would like to see an administration that aims for fiscal 
responsibility by ending the tax breaks and royalties that have been 
handed out year after year to the big oil companies.

I would like to see an administration that aims for fiscal 
responsibility by allowing Medicare to negotiate lower prescription 
drug prices for seniors. Exactly what we predicted would happen has; 
you are seeing the prices go up, not down. They just had a re-up period 
for Medicare Part D. Seniors in my State are trying to figure out all 
these call-in lines and are trying to save a little money, and they are 
caught in the doughnut hole. This could have been done better. It 
wasn't done in a fiscally responsible way.

The President's budget doesn't provide the new priorities and new 
solutions America needs. Instead, it continues to take us down the 
wrong path for the future.

Even as we must plan and invest for the long term, I am also 
concerned that we have our priorities right in the short term. At this 
time, the urgent priority for America is to get our economy moving 
forward again and not let it weaken further. That is why we have put 
together an economic stimulus package that would respond promptly and 
responsibly. It would get this economy moving with tax rebates that are 
fair to the middle class, carefully targeted, and fiscally responsible. 
But tonight we find out that we are not going to be able to vote on 
that tomorrow.

I do commend Senator Baucus and Senator Grassley for their swift work 
in getting this comprehensive, simple, and effective measure to the 
floor.

A short-term stimulus package needs to be targeted for the people who 
need it most. Although economists are wary to declare that we are 
officially in a recession, many middle-class American families have 
been feeling the effects of an economic slowdown for months. From the 
impact of the mortgage crisis on the value of homes in their 
neighborhoods, to the skyrocketing costs of the oil that fuels their 
cars and heats their homes, to the rising prices in the grocery store, 
the middle class is feeling economic pressure from each and every side.

When I went across my State on our Main Street tour in January, no 
matter where I went--all 47 counties--the economy was the first on the 
list of what the people in my State wanted to talk about. From city 
hall, to the cafe stops, to the turkey-processing places, to the little 
solar panel company, that is all they wanted to talk about--the 
economy. The message was loud and clear. I heard a lot from the middle-
class families. Even before we began to experience this economic 
slowdown, the families were finding it harder to get by.

To give you a sense of what we have in our State, in Minnesota, the 
unemployment rate recently jumped to 4.9 percent, up from 4.4 percent 
the month before. Our State lost 23,000 jobs in the last 6 months 
alone. Over 50,000 Minnesota families lost their homes to foreclosure 
in the past 3 months. Home heating prices for Minnesota families have 
risen by 14.1 percent per household in the past year alone.


In order to get communities along Main Streets in Minnesota and 
across our country booming again, we need both short- and long-term 
solutions. While everybody agrees the rebate checks will be a part of 
whatever targeted and effective stimulus package Congress ends up 
sending to the President, I am here today to voice my strong support 
for several additional provisions that are in our Senate proposal. 
These proposals would do much to help improve the middle-class lives 
behind those statistics I just talked about. These are real people all 
over our State. These proposals are a proven stimulus for our economy. 
They deserve a full debate and proper consideration in our Chamber.

First, we need to expand our rebate effort in order to ensure that 
certain deserving groups are not left out. As I said, part of creating 
a targeted stimulus for the economy is through helping those who need 
it most. I was sorry to see that the House proposal fell short.

It is crucial to this package that the 20 million American seniors 
who worked all their lives, paid taxes, and contributed to our society 
in countless ways will get rebate checks. That is the first point. We 
need to include the seniors.

In the past week, I have heard from hundreds of Minnesota seniors who 
told me that the Senate proposal to include Social Security recipients 
is the only fair way to stimulate the economy. I agree, and I support 
the Senate effort to include seniors.

It is also crucial that we include disabled veterans in this package. 
These men and women have served our country both here and abroad. They 
signed up to serve; there wasn't a waiting line. When they come up and 
people are getting rebates, there should not be a waiting line. Go to 
the end of the line--you disabled veterans, who served our country, are 
at the end of the line; you don't get a rebate check. That is not 
right.

Second, I firmly believe we should include an extension of the clean 
energy tax incentives in any stimulus package. We can do that in 
another package, but we have to do it. These benefits certainly meet 
the definition of what we need for a short-term stimulus package.

If you look at the data, we have seen a revolution going on across 
the country in wind and solar and other forms of renewable energy. This 
has been like a game of red light-green light. You can go through the 
lights, and then it lapses for 6 months. It goes on again, and then it 
lapses. The proven statistic is that every time it lapses, the 
investors stop investing. That is not what we want. Our country came up 
with all of the technology for wind and solar, and now we are falling 
behind the rest of the world in developing it because we don't have the 
investment tax credits in place.

Third, I believe the stimulus package should also include additional 
funding for LIHEAP. Working families in Minnesota and across the Nation 
should not have to choose between paying home heating bills and putting 
food on the table. Increasing LIHEAP funding to keep pace with the 
skyrocketing price of oil is essential to this stimulus package.

I see the stimulus package as a first step, and it is crucial to 
support it. But long after those rebate checks are spent, we are going 
to need a long-term economic strategy in response to the problem or we 
are going to be back where we started in the first place. We need an 
economy that creates good, stable middle-class jobs. We need 
infrastructure investment so we don't have


bridges falling down in the middle of America. We need energy 
investment. That will reduce our dependence on foreign oil and create 
good jobs in the green-collar energy sector.

In the Senate, we have our stimulus package, and it is a good one. 
The people we serve are asking for a new direction and priority. That 
means being fiscally responsible, being willing to roll back some of 
the tax cuts for the wealthiest, closing down loopholes, negotiating 
for lower prescription drug prices, and taking the oil giveaways and 
putting them into renewables. Those are new priorities for this 
country.

Last year, we made a downpayment on change in this country. We moved 
toward a more responsible budget process. We gave working Americans an 
increase in the minimum wage. Today, we can continue that progress and 
continue that change with a system that is fair for all Americans. That 
means getting the stimulus package done, including these necessary 
changes with seniors and disabled veterans and the LIHEAP funding, and 
then looking at the long term and making sure in this package--or in 
another one--we get the tax cuts in place for clean energy and do 
something about fiscal responsibility. And we are willing to talk about 
change and really do it.

This is our moment. The American people have spoken. At least they 
spoke to me in Crookston and Worthington and Starbuck. I think if the 
people who live in those towns were standing here, they would tell the 
Senate what we need to do. So let's get it done.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.