---
---

# DISCLOSE ACT
## `d26a1ffc6331fab03c4deb680ab989fe`
`Mr. REED — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, last Friday, this Chamber played host to 
heroes: seven wounded warriors from the 82nd Airborne Division, who are 
currently recuperating at Walter Reed Army Hospital. They came down for 
a tour of the Capitol, and for moments here on the floor of the Senate, 
in which they were able to see their government in action.

More important, we were able to thank them for their extraordinary 
service and sacrifice to the Nation. I am particularly proud because 
they are soldiers from my division--the 82nd Airborne Division.

We had among our guests SGT Steven Dandoy, who was wounded last month 
in a mortar attack in Afghanistan, of the third battalion 321st Field 
Artillery, whose hometown is Milwaukee, WI; SGT Allen Thomas, who is 
from Adelphi, MD, and serves with the 2-508 Parachute Infantry 
Regiment, who was wounded in Afghanistan this past March during an 
attack from a suicide bomber, and he was joined by his fiancee, Donna; 
SPC Antonio Brown, from Florence, SC.

We were honored to have SPC Antonio Brown from Florence, SC. He was 
wounded in Iraq in 2007 when a 50-caliber round detonated in his hand. 
He was serving with the 2nd Battalion of the 325th Parachute Infantry 
Regiment.

SPC John Doherty of Jerome, ID, was wounded when a 50-caliber round 
detonated in his hand in April while he was serving with the 2nd 
Battalion of the 508th Parachute Infantry Regiment. Amazingly, he 
recently passed his flight physical with the goal of qualifying as an 
Army helicopter pilot despite his wound.

SPC Jeffrey McKnight of the 1st Battalion of the 508th Parachute 
Infantry Regiment and hailing from Littleton, CO, was also our guest. 
He was wounded last month during a vehicle rollover in Afghanistan.

SPC William Ross also serves with the 2nd Battalion of the 508th 
Parachute Infantry Regiment. He was our guest also. Specialist Ross 
hails from Knoxville, TN. He is recovering from a gunshot wound he 
received during a dismounted patrol in March. He was joined by his 
fiancee Tiffany.

SPC Nicholas Stone of the 2nd Battalion of the 508th Parachute 
Infantry Regiment was also our guest. He hails from Buffalo, NY. He is 
recovering from wounds suffered in an IED attack on a dismounted patrol 
in May. He was joined by his wife Kristen.

Let me also say it is appropriate to recognize the families of these 
wounded warriors because they, too, serve. They, too, sacrifice. In 
fact, during the long hours of rehabilitation and therapy at Walter 
Reed, they are at the bedside literally of their wounded soldiers. I 
thank them.

I also thank SFC Albert Comfort and SSG Rodolfo Nunez from the 82nd 
Airborne Division. They are the Division Liaisons for the wounded 
warriors at Walter Reed Army Medical Center.

These young men left the comfort and safety of their homes all across 
this country to serve this Nation. Their service, their sacrifice 
sustains us. They are the fabric of our defense. They are those young 
men and women who serve in great danger but with unfailing fidelity to 
the Army and to the Nation. Because of them, we are able to oppose 
those who seek us harm.

We can never repay them enough. We can never thank them enough. But 
last Friday we had seven of these wounded warriors down just to say: 
Thank you, well done, and to give them a chance to look at the Senate 
and see the history that was made by their predecessors, and which they 
are sustaining and will make in the future.

It was a special moment for me because these soldiers come from the 
82nd Airborne Division. One of the great privileges of my life--in 
fact, I believe this is one of the greatest privileges an American can 
have--was leading American soldiers in the 82nd Airborne Division as 
the company commander of Bravo Company, 2nd Battalion of the 504th 
Parachute Infantry Regiment. I learned a lot about service, sacrifice, 
and the contribution of Americans from across this globe, as well as 
the great potential of Americans, not only to defend our Nation but to 
do great things, furthering the goals and ideals of this country.

I conclude by saying to these young soldiers: Thank you very much for 
your service. Good luck. Godspeed.

I yield back the remainder of my time to the Senator from New York.