---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `d27718fb7e772ac2e3bc7ce86850bb8d`
`Mr. OBEY — 18 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Chairman, again, I feel required to make the same 
comments that I made on a previous amendment that was offered about 
one-half hour ago.



This amendment seeks to do a very worthy thing: It seeks to increase 
support for respite care. God knows, having watched my mother-in-law 
for 7 years, having watched my father-in-law take care of her every 
day, God knows that anyone who has ever seen something like that 
understands that we need a lot more respite care.

But having said that, I want again to use this amendment to 
illustrate what is happening on this bill, because here is what the 
amendment says:

Page 63, line 4: After the first dollar amount insert, reduce by $20 
million, increase by $20 million.

Now, what the amendment really does is simply to serve as a vehicle 
by which these two worthy Members can raise the issue that there is not 
enough money in this bill for respite care. And you know what? There 
isn't. And there isn't enough money in this bill for CDC; there isn't 
enough money in this bill for NIH; there isn't enough money in this 
bill for education; there isn't enough money in this bill for Pell 
Grants; there is not enough money in this bill to sufficiently reduce 
the Social Security backlog; there is not enough money in this bill to 
keep all the Social Security offices open that are closing around the 
country. And, yet, the administration is sending out a letter telling 
Members of Congress that they ought to vote against this bill because 
there is too much money.

Now, I don't fault the two gentlemen at all for using this device in 
order to raise their concerns; it is about the only thing they can do. 
But the fact is, as chairman of this committee, I have an obligation to 
point out to the House and to the occasional other person who might be 
listening that Members are being forced to go through these kinds of 
machinations because instead of meeting our obligations to the most 
needy people, the most vulnerable people in this society, we are 
instead squirting away billions of dollars on an Iraq war and billions 
more dollars in tax cuts for persons who make over $1 million a year.

The day that we decide not to do that, the day that we decide that we 
are not going to spend $150 billion more in Iraq this year, the day 
that we decide that we are not going to put tax cuts for millionaires 
ahead of the needs of our disabled and ahead of the needs of our 
isolated seniors, then that is the day when amendments like this will 
be real, because then there will be sufficient room in the budget to do 
what we ought to be doing on these programs.

Again, I will not stand in the way of this amendment because it is a 
worthy cause. But, understand, this is not a real offset; it doesn't 
add any new money to this account; and when we go to conference, we are 
going to have to jettison much of what is adopted on the floor because, 
like this amendment, in reality, because of budget constraints, it 
ain't real.

Madam Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.