---
---

# IN HONOR OF LIEUTENANT COLONEL RICHARD W. SKOW
## `d27facda674457fb1e170076aa1ece87`
`Mr. FARR — 9 January 2009`

---


Mr. FARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the distinguished 
military career of United States Army LTC Richard W. Skow. On behalf of 
the whole House, I am honored to extend to Lieutenant Colonel Skow and 
his family the gratitude of the Congress and the American people for 
his service on the occasion of his retirement after 24 years in 
uniform.

During his long and decorated career Lieutenant Colonel Skow made 
enormous contributions to the success of the U.S. Army's worldwide 
mission. Most recently, he served for the last year and a half as the 
Defense Language Institute's, DLI's, Chief of Staff where he had 
previously studied Portuguese. He built a reputation for an outstanding 
work ethic, sound judgment, and proactive leadership--a true example 
for the junior officers under his command. As chief of staff, he played 
an instrumental role in helping his commander fulfill the DLI's complex 
mission. His duties included, but were not limited to, personnel and 
budget management, special


projects, congressional inquiry review and response, and primary 
command briefing responsibilities.

Highlights of his service prior to DLI include:

Defense and Army Attache, Uganda, July 2005-July 2007. In this role, 
Lieutenant Colonel Skow advised the ambassador on Uganda's continually 
shifting security situation. He coordinated with the Ugandan Army in 
dealing with the Lord's Resistance Army and reported on the activities 
of this group in neighboring countries. Notably, he was instrumental in 
the recovery of five citizens from the UK, Australia and New Zealand 
after an attack by LRA insurgents.

Army Attache, South Africa, January 2003-July 2005. Lieutenant 
Colonel Skow regularly reported on military issues in South Africa 
where he coordinated a joint training exercise between a U.S. Ranger 
company and the South African airborne regiment. Additionally he 
coordinated the procurement and transportation of South African mine 
resistant armored personnel vehicles, NYALA, and mine detection and IED 
detection vehicles, HUSKY, for deployment to Afghanistan and Iraq.

Defense and Army Attache, Rwanda, October 1998-December 2001. 
Lieutenant Colonel Skow served as the primary military/political 
advisor to the ambassador during a violent insurgency in northwest 
Rwanda. He monitored the security situation in northwest Rwanda and 
advised the ambassador regarding travel restrictions for U.S. citizens. 
He was responsible for routine interface with Rwandan military 
personnel and interviewed insurgent prisoners of all ranks. In addition 
to providing current combat intelligence and information from the POWs, 
Lieutenant Colonel Skow also created a list of insurgents that were 
responsible for the murder of U.S. and UK tourists in Bwindi National 
Forest, Uganda. He then coordinated closely with the FBI to ensure they 
received all necessary support.

In closing, Madam Speaker, I want to extend the gratitude of the 
House to Lieutenant Colonel Skow and his wife, Janice, for their 
service to the Nation and to wish them the very best in the future.
