# None
## `d287d5a47403a191704a13b365b32845`
`Mr. CUMMINGS — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. Thank you very much, Chairman Waxman, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 734, a resolution 
expressing our dismay at the withholding of information relating to 
Iraqi corruption, which I have cosponsored.

By all accounts, Iraq was a corrupt state at the time of the U.S. 
invasion. Unfortunately, it remains so today. The nonpartisan group, 
Transparency International, finds that the Iraqi Government is the 
world's third most corrupt country more than 4 years after Saddam 
Hussein was ousted.

In an October 4 hearing of the Oversight and Government Reform 
Committee, we listened to the heart-wrenching testimony of Judge al-
Radhi, the former Commissioner of the Iraqi Commission on Public 
Integrity. During his tenure, the judge uncovered up to $18 billion in 
funds that were lost as a result of corruption. Rather than receive the 
accolades for his efforts, however, Judge Radhi faced severe 
retaliation instead. He told us of the horrible atrocities that he and 
his family and that of his staff suffered at the hands of those who 
aimed to stifle his investigations.

In total, 31 people from his office and 12 of their family members 
were killed. Many endured unspeakable torture, their bodies hung from 
meat hooks. Judge Radhi's own home was struck by rockets. Harassment 
eventually reached the point that he was forced to flee his own 
country. This is not the sort of environment that leads to the free and 
democratic Iraqi society that President Bush is so fond of invoking.

We cannot achieve a victory in Iraq as long as we allow corruption to 
continue unchecked. Unfortunately, officials of the U.S. Department of 
State do not appear to agree. Following our hearing, the Department 
retroactively classified reports and portions of reports that detailed 
problems with Iraqi corruption. These actions represent a blatant 
attempt to manipulate the classification process to stave off bad 
publicity.

Mr. Speaker, this is a very sad reality indeed. I find it ironic that 
our own government is engaging in obstructive practices in an attempt 
to cover up the truth about corruption in Iraq. I urge all of my 
colleagues to join us in sending a very strong message to the 
administration that these practices will not be tolerated by voting in 
favor of H. Res. 734.