# STOP EXCESSIVE ENERGY SPECULATION ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `d2896e34e31ce113d0248d6633541d77`
`Mr. WEBB — 23 July 2008`

---


Mr. WEBB. I will do my best. I wish to speak for a few minutes today 
about why I believe it is not only appropriate but important for us to 
be focusing on the issue of oil market speculation, separate from the 
larger issues that confront us in our energy policies, as a way to 
address the most serious problem and the most fixable problem as it 
relates to the high price of oil and the high price of gas. There are 
many on the other side who have commented that speculation is not the 
reason gas prices have gone up so dramatically, that this is simply the 
free market working. I am reminded that when this Congress voted in 
October of 2002 to go to war in Iraq, the price of oil was $24 a 
barrel. It has gone up all the way to $145 a barrel. That is six times 
the cost of oil when we went into Iraq.

I certainly wouldn't venture that demand has gone up six times in the 
last 6 years, even if we adjust for the devaluation of the dollar 
taking place for a lot of reasons, that demand has gone up in those 
kinds of multiples. I, similar to many on this side of the aisle, would 
like to see a comprehensive energy package, a comprehensive energy 
strategy that addresses all our assets and all the assets we can bring 
to this issue in the future.

This simply is not the right time. You cannot do this with a series 
of amendments, whether it is for another week or another 2 weeks. You 
can only do that with another serious consideration of a piece of 
legislation that addresses all these different areas. I am among those 
on this side of the aisle who are not opposed to the idea of offshore 
exploration for oil and natural gas and have joined the senior Senator 
from Virginia in a proposal to that effect.

I would like to see us go into a more serious development of nuclear 
power. We have not had a new nuclear power plant built in this country 
in 30 years. Nuclear power technology has improved. Carbon dioxide 
emissions from nuclear power plants is benign. It is good for the 
environment. It would have a dramatic increase in jobs. These are all 
positives.

I also would like us to explore, in a proper way, alternative energy 
proposals that have become increasingly popular and increasingly viable 
over the last 20 years. There has been a lot of attention on wind power 
over the past few days because of what Mr. T. Boone Pickens has 
proposed. Solar technology has dramatically increased in its 
capabilities over the past 10 to 15 years.

I come from a State that produces a lot of coal. I think the answer 
to coal--which is a national asset in this country in terms of the 
supply that is available--when it is used under the right circumstances 
can be environmentally neutral, when we develop the right technologies.

Those are all issues which should be on the table as we approach a 
full energy strategy in terms of reducing our dependence on foreign oil 
and becoming more energy independent. But they are simply not the only 
issues we should be addressing this week.

Why is speculation so important? Quite obviously, because as of the 
end of 2000, there are people other than users who have been buying oil 
futures. They have been buying them not for their use, but purely as if 
they were buying stocks. They are doing this in an environment where 
there are no regulations in the same sense as there are in other 
investment areas, the areas that apply to stocks.

As I said, this policy changed in late 2000, and this is when the 
speculation market began to have these aberrations in it. You can buy 
oil futures for 3 or 4 percent on margin. We have dramatically more 
investors than we have users, and there are plenty of estimates 
available as to how this has affected the market, totally absent from 
supply and demand.

A whole series of big oil executives have agreed that the oil market 
has been affected by as much as $60 a barrel because of this type of 
speculation.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that four of those testimonies 
be printed in the Record at this time, rather than going through them, 
in the interest of time.

