---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `d290e46cf51243cfed798a80fd37653e`
`Mr. MURTHA — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURTHA. Let me tell you what is in this bill and what you are 
voting against. There is $1.7 billion of this bill request for military 
health care. If you vote against this bill, you are denying our troops 
$1.7 billion.

There is $450 million for post-traumatic stress. There is $450 
million for brain injury care. It is insufficient, but that is the 
money we put in the bill; $62 million for amputee care at Walter Reed, 
$20 million to fix up Walter Reed. That is what is in this bill for 
health care.

If you vote against this bill, the military families will be denied 
$17 million to help prevent child-spouse abuse.

The bill increases accountability over contractors. When I was in 
Iraq a month and a half ago, the contractors were falling all over each 
other. GAO and the inspector general of Iraq said to us, help us get 
this under control. I asked or one of the Members in the subcommittee 
asked the GAO what we could do to help. And I asked the Under Secretary 
of Defense: How many contractors do you have in Iraq? He couldn't tell 
me. He said, we will tell you within a week. We still haven't heard, 
and that has been over a month ago. We have had 11 hearings, and we are 
going to have 35 more hearings before this year is over. We are going 
to hold the Department of Defense accountable for the money that they 
are spending and the strategy that they are using.

This bill bans permanent bases in Iraq. This bill bans torture in 
Iraq. We have sent troops to Iraq that were not trained in their 
specific MOSs, and that is exactly why Abu Ghraib happened. We had 
people that were untrained, National Guard members who were untrained 
who went into that prison, didn't know how to handle it, and it caused 
a natural disaster, a public relations disaster.

The way the military is doing the job, and there is nobody that 
regards the military higher than I do. Nobody is more inspired by the 
troops that I have talked to and I have seen. But let me tell you 
something. With the type of tactics that they have to use, by knocking 
down doors and by using overwhelming force, it makes enemies. That is 
the problem we have, and we are not winning the hearts and minds of the 
people when we do that.



Let me talk about the readiness of our troops. Every unit in the 
United States, except two National Guard units, went into this war with 
the highest state of readiness. Now, there are only two units in the 
United States that are at the highest state of readiness.

This provides money to take care of that. If you vote against that, 
you are voting against money to take care of readiness for our 
strategic reserve.

Let me tell you what General Craddock says. General Craddock is the 
European commander, the NATO commander, American commander. Listen to 
what I am saying. This is what General Craddock says: ''We have very 
little capacity left after we source the global force pool, if you 
will, for these ongoing European Command missions. Our ability to do 
that now is limited because we don't have the forces available since 
they are in the rotation to the other missions.''

He is saying what I have been saying for a year and a half. This is a 
failed policy wrapped in illusion. We do not have the troops. We do not 
have a strategic reserve to be able to react to a future national 
threat to this great country. The troops can only do so much.

This bill includes $1.4 billion for new armored vehicles. If you vote 
against this, you are voting against the new armored vehicles which we 
need so badly. We put an extra $313 million above what the Defense 
Department requested for those vehicles. That is the V-shaped vehicles 
which resist the IEDs. If you vote against this bill, you will be 
denying the troops better protection and better equipment.

The bill also includes billions to reset the forces. What I have been 
saying is the equipment, somebody said the other day, well, they train 
on old equipment. Well, why does that mean anything? Those of you who 
have been in the military knows what it means. It means when you go 
into combat, you do not have the type of equipment you need. You are 
risking the lives of these people by training on inadequate equipment. 
We have two units that will not go to the desert because they have to 
rush them out over to Iraq.

It is not the military's fault. The administration has forced the 
military to break their own guidelines in order to send troops over to 
supply this surge and to sustain this deployment.

Finally, we are saying in this bill, you cannot send troops back into 
battle unless they have the appropriate training, they are fully 
trained, mission capable. Is there anybody that is going to vote 
against that? If you vote against this bill, you vote against that. If 
you vote against this bill, you vote against sending troops back in 
less than a year at home. That is unacceptable.

You can sit here and say we are fighting this war, oh, yes, you can 
sit here in Washington and say you are fighting this war. But let me 
tell you something, those young people sometimes went back three and 
four times; their families are suffering. These are not 140,000 people. 
These are each individuals with families and relatives that are bearing 
the brunt of this fighting that are sent back.

This bill forces the administration to live up to the guidelines they 
have set for their military and not to extend them. A psychologist told 
us in a hearing that if you spend 3 months in combat that there is a 
good chance you will start to develop PTSD three months in this 
intensive combat in Baghdad.

Now, you can sit here and talk about us fighting this war on 
terrorism. We put an extra billion dollars for Afghanistan in this bill 
so we could fight terrorism where it started in Afghanistan. That is 
where it started.

Let me tell you something. We set benchmarks. We set benchmarks 
because it has not worked. Every time something happens over there, 
what he says is, well, we will send American troops; we will send 
American troops


back before they have their time at home. We will extend American 
troops. The Iraqis have to start to bear this responsibility for 
themselves, and that is why we are putting it in the bill.

The American people in the last election sent a message. They said we 
want the Iraqis to solve their own problems in Iraq. The Americans have 
borne the brunt. We are spending $8.4 billion a month, $2 billion to 
get people and equipment and supplies over to Iraq, $2 billion a month, 
8,000 miles away.

I will tell you what hurts the troops; I will tell you what hurts 
them. It hurts them when they extend it beyond 13 months or the 
marines, beyond 7 months. What hurts the troops, if you send the troops 
back before they have a year at home. That is what hurts the morale of 
the troops. I am the person that found the 44,000 shortage of body 
armor in the initial invasion of Iraq. We had troops in danger because 
they did not have the equipment they needed. We cannot send troops back 
into combat without equipment and fully being trained.

Let me just say this in the end. My grandfather's Civil War hat is in 
my office. He lost his arm in the Civil War fighting for the North, 
some of you Southerners here. My great-grandmother lived to be 96. I 
was 6-years-old when she died. She said you are on this Earth to make a 
difference. We are going to make a difference with this bill. We are 
going to bring those troops home. We are going to start changing the 
direction of this great country.

Mr. Speaker and distinguished Members of this body, the United States 
currently has 145,000 troops on the ground in Iraq and over half a 
trillion dollars has been expended in the war. More than 3,200 of our 
sons and daughters have lost their lives and close to 25,000 have been 
wounded; hundreds with amputated limbs and thousands with traumatic 
brain injuries.

The Pentagon reports that the Iraqi Security Forces have grown in 
number, reaching their goal of 325,000 trained and equipped. The Iraqis 
have a Constitution and have held national elections. These milestones 
have been met, yet lack of security and stability continues. The war in 
Iraq has been plagued by mischaracterization based on unrealistic 
optimism instead of realism. Reality dictates that conditions on the 
ground are simply moving in the wrong direction.

There are limits to military power. There is no U.S. military 
solution to Iraq's civil war. It is up to the Iraqis.

Beginning in May 2005, after two years of mischaracterizations and 
misrepresentations by this Administration, the Defense Appropriations 
subcommittee required the Department of Defense to submit quarterly 
reports to Congress on the facts necessary to measure stability and 
security in Iraq. Since July 2005, we have received these reports. They 
are dismal and demonstrate a clear lack of progress in vital areas of 
concern. Electricity, oil production, employment and potable water 
remain at woeful levels.

The average weekly attacks have grown from 430 in July 2005 to well 
over 1000 today. In fact, attacks throughout the country have increased 
10 percent over the last 4 months. Iraqi casualties have increased from 
63 per day in October 2005 to over 125 per day.

Recent polls show that more than six in 10 Iraqis now say their lives 
are going badly, double the percentage who said so in late 2005. Sixty-
nine percent of the Iraqis surveyed said the presence of U.S. forces in 
the country makes the overall security situation worse. In January 
2006, 47 percent of Iraqis approved of attacks on U.S.-led forces. When 
the same polling question was asked just 8 months later, 61 percent of 
Iraqis approved of attacks on U.S-led forces.

The support of the American public continues to erode and there is 
little confidence in the current strategy. Today less than 30 percent 
of Americans approve of the way the President is handling the war, and 
only 11 percent support the President's plan to increase troop levels 
in Iraq. A February 2006 poll showed that 72 percent of American troops 
serving in Iraq believed the U.S. should exit Iraq within the year and 
42 percent said their mission was unclear.

Wars cannot be won with slogans. There must be a clear and reachable 
plan and a defined way to measure the success of that plan. The 
President says he has a new plan for a way forward in Iraq. General 
Peter Schoomaker, Chief of the United States Army, said in a recent 
hearing that in order for a plan to be effective we ''have to be able 
to measure the purpose.'' But the President sets forth a plan with no 
defined matrices for measuring progress and no consequences if progress 
is not made. This new plan is simply more of the same open ended 
commitment in Iraq that has not worked.

A new strategy that is based on redeployment rather than further U.S. 
military engagement, and one that is centered on handing Iraq back to 
the Iraqis, is what is needed. I do not believe that Iraq will make the 
political progress necessary for its security and stability until U.S. 
forces redeploy.

In order to achieve stability in Iraq and the Region, I recommend:

(1) The redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq

(2) The execution of a robust diplomatic effort and the restoration 
of our international credibility

(3) The repairing of our military readiness and the rebuilding of our 
strategic reserve to face future threats.










 Redeployment of U.S. Forces from Iraq


To achieve stability and security in Iraq, I believe we first must 
have a responsible phased redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq. 
General William Odom (U.S. Army, Retired) recently testified, ''We are 
pursuing the wrong war.''

Stability and security in the Region should be our overarching 
strategy, not a ''victory in Iraq.'' I agree with General Odom and 
believe that Regional Stability can only be accomplished through the 
redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq.

Who wants us to stay in Iraq? In my opinion, Iran and Al Qaeda, 
because we intensify the very radical extremism we claim to be fighting 
against, while at the same time depleting our financial and human 
resources.

As long as the U.S. military continues to occupy Iraq, there will be 
no real security. Maintaining U.S. troop strength in Iraq or adding to 
the strength in specified areas, has not proven effective in the past 
nor do I believe it will work in the future. The Iraq war cannot be won 
by the U.S. military, predominantly because of the way our military 
operates. They use overwhelming force, which I advocate to save 
American lives, but it is counter to winning the hearts and minds of 
the people.
















How to Re-deploy


I recommend the phased redeployment of U.S. forces, first from 
Saddam's palaces, then from the green zone. Next, from the prime real 
estate of Iraq's major cities, out of the factories and universities, 
and finally out of the country all together. We need to give 
communities back to the Iraqis so they can begin to self govern, begin 
economic recovery and return to some type of normality. I recommend the 
adoption of a U.S. policy that encourages and rewards reconstruction 
and regional investment and one that is dictated and administered not 
by the United States, but by the Iraqis themselves.










Restoration of International Credibility


I believe that a responsible redeployment from Iraq is the first step 
necessary in restoring our tarnished international credibility. Since 
the U.S. invasion of Iraq, our international credibility, even among 
allies, has plummeted. Stability in Iraq is important not only to the 
United States, but it is important to the Region and to the entire 
world. The BBC recently released a poll showing that nearly three-
quarters of those polled in 25 countries disapprove of U.S. policies 
toward Iraq. More than two-thirds said the U.S. military presence in 
the Middle East does more harm than good. Just 29 percent of 
respondents said the United States has a general positive influence in 
the world, down from 40 percent two years ago.







How do we Restore our International Credibility


In order to restore international credibility, I believe it is 
necessary for the U.S. to completely denounce any aspirations of 
building permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq; I believe we should 
shut down the Guantanamo detention facility; and we must bulldoze the 
Abu Ghraib prison. We must clearly articulate and demonstrate a policy 
of ''no torture, no exceptions'' and directly engage countries in the 
region with dialogue instead of directives. This includes allies as 
well as our perceived adversaries.



 Repairing of our Military Readiness and Rebuilding our Strategic 










 Reserve to Face Future Threats


Our annual Defense spending budget is currently in excess of $450 
billion. Above this amount, we are spending $8.4 billion dollars a 
month in the war in Iraq and yet our strategic reserve is in desperate 
shape. While we are fighting an asymmetric threat in the short term, we 
have weakened our ability to respond to what I believe is a grave long 
term conventional and nuclear threat.

At the beginning of the Iraq war, 80 percent of ALL Army units and 
almost 100 percent of active combat units were rated at the highest 
state of readiness. Today, virtually all of our active-duty combat 
units at home and ALL of our guard units are at the lowest state of 
readiness, primarily due to equipment shortages resulting from repeated 
and extended deployments to Iraq. In recent testimony given by a high 
ranking Pentagon official it was reported that our country is 
threatened because we lack readiness at home.

Our Army has no strategic reserve, and while it is true that the U.S. 
Navy and the U.S.


Air Force can be used to project power, there is a limit to what they 
can achieve. Overall, our military remains capable of projecting power, 
but we must also be able to sustain that projection, and in this regard 
there is no replacement for boots on the ground.





How do we Repair Readiness and Rebuild our Strategic Reserve


We must make it a national priority to re-strengthen our military and 
to repair readiness. I advocate an increase in overall troop strength. 
The current authorized level is below what I believe is needed to 
maintain an optimal military. In recent testimony to the Defense 
Subcommittee that I chair, the Army and Marine Corps Commanders 
testified that they could not continue to sustain the current 
deployment practices without an adverse effect on the health and well-
being of service members and their families.

For decades, the Army operated on a deployment policy that for every 
one year of deployment, two years were spent at home. This was 
considered optimal for re-training, re-equipping and re-constituting. 
Without relief, the Army will be forced to extend deployments to Iraq 
to over one year in country and will be forced to send troops back with 
less than one year at home. The Army reported that a 9-month deployment 
was preferable. Medical experts testified that in intensive combat, 
deployments of over 3 months increased the likelihood for service 
members to develop post traumatic stress disorders. A recent report by 
the Harvard University School of Government put the total cost of 
providing medical care and disability benefits to veterans of Iraq and 
Afghanistan at $350 to $700 billion.

We must invest in the health and well being of our service members by 
providing for the right amount of troops and for appropriate deployment 
and rotation cycles. Our military equipment inventories are 
unacceptably low. The Services report that at least $100 billion more 
is needed to get them back to ready state. In doing so, we must not 
neglect investment in military technologies of the future. While we 
remain bogged down in Iraq, the size and sophistication of other 
militaries are growing. We must not lose our capability to deter future 
threats.

Let me conclude by saying historically, whether it was India, Algeria 
or Afghanistan, foreign occupations do not work, and in fact incite 
civil unrest. Our military remains the greatest military in the world, 
but there are limits to its ability to control a population that 
considers them occupiers.

I have said this before and I continue to say that there are 
essentially only two plans. One is to continue an occupation that has 
not worked and that has shown no progress toward stabilization. The 
other, which I advocate, is to end the occupation of Iraq, redeploy and 
re-strengthen our military and turn Iraq over to the Iraqis.












The Waters-Boehner Coalition



 (By Scott Lilly, Senior Fellow, Center for American Progress)




 The U.S. House of Representatives is an unusual place and 


 politics makes strange bedfellows. But the coalition to block 


 funding for U.S. troops in Iraq and Afghanistan and improve 


 the deplorable state of medical care for our returning 


 veterans is one for the record books.



 Led by House Minority Leader John Boehner on the right and 


 Los Angeles Congresswoman Maxine Waters on the left, the 


 coalition is striving to put together enough votes to block 


 passage of the $124 billion spending package expected to go 


 to the House Floor on Friday. Boehner, hoping to get nearly 


 all House Republicans to vote against the measure, contends:




 . . . there is only one way to do the right thing: fully-


 fund the troops without strings attached . . . Setting 


 timelines is no different than handing the enemy our war plan 


 itself. It serves as a road map for the terrorists to plot 


 maneuvers against American men and women in uniform. 


 Micromanaging the war from Capitol is, by any standard or 


 definition, a recipe for disaster.




 Boehner also opposes ''incomprehensible spending'' on 


 ''unrelated, non-emergency'' items not requested by the White 


 House. This includes among other things, $2.8 billion to 


 address the health care problems confronting returning 


 veterans--funds to address the problems at Walter Reed; 


 improve treatment of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and 


 Traumatic Brain Injury; speed the processing of veteran 


 requests for entry into the VA medical system and clean up 


 the $550 million maintenance backlog at VA health facilities. 


 Boehner also objects to more than $3 billion in unrequested 


 funds to cope with other military needs, primarily correcting 


 the shortfall in the readiness of military units being sent 


 into combat.



 Waters reaches the same conclusion as Boehner based on an 


 entirely different assessment of the facts:




 Not only did the American public speak loudly and clearly 


 last Nov. 7, but poll after poll reinforces the message that 


 Americans want their troops home now. The president's 


 supplemental request is just what the word ''supplemental'' 


 implies--additional funds to expand and continue this war. I 


 believe that there is enough money available in the pipeline 


 to fund a planned exit. I will vote against the supplemental 


 unless the additional funds are used to fully fund the safe, 


 secure and timely withdrawal of our troops by Dec. 31




 Boehner wants no strings attached and Waters not only wants 


 strings, but shorter and stronger strings. Boehner does not 


 like the pressure that the bill places on the President to 


 bring an end to the U.S. military presence in Iraq and Waters 


 does not want to end U.S. presence through pressure but 


 rather mandate it by law. As a result both want to defeat 


 money needed for fuel, ammunition, spare parts and medical 


 care for those presently in harms way.



 Both also in my judgment misread the mood of the American 


 people and are wrong on the best course for the country. The 


 American people overwhelmingly oppose the war but they even 


 more overwhelmingly oppose anything that would put the brave 


 men and women we have called into service at greater risk. No 


 war in American history has ended as the result of a 


 legislative fiat. Even Vietnam, which is the closest 


 parallel, was ended because of political pressure rather than 


 legislative direction. The right way to end our presence in 


 Iraq is for the Executive and Legislative branches of our 


 government to reach an accommodation on Iraq policy.



 The Bush Administration needs Congress to support its 


 military and foreign policy objectives and the language in 


 the Supplemental now pending sends a clear message that such 


 support will be contingent upon a plan for an ordered 


 withdrawal--a withdrawal that protects our troops and 


 American interests in the region.



 But what Waters and her supporters seem to fail to 


 recognize is that the Congress needs the White House. That 


 may be hard for some to accept but extracting U.S. forces 


 from the violence now besieging much of Iraq will be a 


 complex and hazardous process. It will take the best planners 


 that the Defense Department can find; it will take strong 


 leadership on the part of commanders and hard choices in 


 terms of both military and political priorities. Equally 


 important it will take extensive diplomatic consultation on 


 both a regional and global basis. None of those things can be 


 accomplished by the Congress. It is not the way our 


 government was designed and it is not the way it works. If 


 the two branches cannot reach accommodation there will be 


 hell to pay and those who have already been asked to pay the 


 most will be forced to pay again.



 The language contained in the supplemental demands that the 


 Iraqi government meet certain bench marks and provided those 


 benchmarks are achieved, begins redeployment of American 


 forces in March of next year. It also requires that if the 


 White House believes that it must violate long standing 


 Pentagon policies on the readiness of military units sent 


 into combat, the length of deployments into combat zones and 


 the length of time between deployments the President must 


 fully explain why he is ordering a violation of those 


 policies.



 This is very strong pressure on a President that is very 


 strong willed. It is the beginning of a process which will 


 either bring the two powerful branches of our government 


 together in mutual accommodation or push the country closer 


 to a Constitutional crisis. It is the first step in a process 


 that will either fortunately or unfortunately continue all 


 year.



 Following the Friday House vote on the Supplemental, that 


 legislation will come before the Senate and the final version 


 will be crafted in a conference committee in April and 


 presented to both houses for final approval by the end of 


 that month. Within weeks the House will begin deliberation on 


 the Fiscal 2008 Defense Appropriation which will remain under 


 various stages of consideration until September. There will 


 be numerous opportunities for Congress to strengthen its 


 demands with respect to Iraq and for the Administration to 


 respond. What opponents of the War cannot do at this juncture 


 is overplay their hand and slow the growth of public 


 sentiment and political pressure against the current Iraq 


 policy and its supporters.



 Boehner is also playing a high risk game. He is putting the 


 Congressional wing of his party on record as opposing 


 measures to require that the troops are well trained and well 


 equipped before they are sent into deadly conflict. He is 


 opposing funds his own President says the troops need now and 


 he is opposing medical care for the troops once they return. 


 Simultaneously, he is saying that the Congress should not 


 apply pressure to the White House for a new strategy to pull 


 us out of Iraq. That is a position that is not only opposed 


 by nearly all Democrats but by an overwhelming majority of 


 independents and a substantial share of Republicans. It is 


 not a particularly smart way to redefine the Republican Party 


 in the wake of the drubbing his part took in last fall's 


 elections.



 The supplemental is not perfect. There is probably no one 


 who supports every provision. But there is much that is good 


 in the bill and begins the process by which the Congress and 


 the White House can come together on a solution that is best 


 for the country. It is not as simple or straight forward as 


 many would like but it is the process that our founding 


 fathers bestowed on us and it is the only approach that can 


 bring an ordered end to this catastrophic engagement.
