---
---

# None
## `d29cc7559af1cda25dc61b2a9f576d32`
`Mr. DODD — 31 July 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, I wish to begin my comments by thanking 
our colleague from Massachusetts once again for giving heart to an 
argument that sometimes gets lost in statistics and numbers.

As all of us know, every one of us has watched either fellow Members 
or others--our staffs or constituents--who have gone through the 
dreaded situation of watching a child in need of health care. We know 
how fortunate we are to be Members of Congress, as we receive a 
tremendous amount of support for health care services. The fact that we 
are living in a day and age in the 21st century when so many of our 
children, growing numbers in our society, are without any kind of 
health care coverage at all. It is shameful, to put it mildly. I 
commend the distinguished Senator from Montana, the chair of the 
Finance Committee, and once again the Senator from Massachusetts for 
his tremendous support of this effort.

I wish to offer an amendment at the appropriate time. As many of my 
colleagues know, over a period of 7 years, three Presidents, and two 
Presidential vetoes, I worked toward passage of the Family Medical 
Leave Act. It finally became law in 1993. Today, more than 50 million 
Americans have been able to take advantage of the protections of that 
law. It is related to the subject matter of the bill at hand, a little 
bit off center, but it's about caring for our families.

Last week, Senator Dole along with Donna Shalala and others, offered 
recommendations from the President's Commission on Care for America's 
Returning Wounded Warriors. They urged Congress to draft legislation to 
allow up to 6 months of family and medical leave for family members of 
troops who have sustained combat-related injuries and meet the other 
eligibility requirements of the law. We believe this is a worthwhile 
proposal, so I introduced the Support for Injured Servicemembers Act 
last week with several of my colleagues.

I am very grateful to Senator Dole, a former colleague of ours, and 
the entire Commission for their thoughtful work on this crucial issue.

For 20 years, we have worked on legislation to extend family and 
medical leave to families in this country. So I hope that at the 
appropriate time, my amendment on this matter will be considered and 
unanimously adopted. There may be an argument on germaneness, but we 
can't wait to help the men and women who are injured in service to our 
country. I can't think of a more appropriate step for us to take than 
to allow these veterans who are recovering from their wounds to have a 
loved one with them during that period of recovery.

I wanted to lay out for my colleagues the value of this amendment, 
how valuable the protections of family and medical leave have been for 
families. In fact, we have introduced legislation to provide paid 
family and medical leave. I won't be offering that at this juncture, 
but now offer an extended unpaid leave program. My amendment would 
simply extend the period of job protection for up to six months for 
those who care for our returning heroes as they recover from their 
injuries. The reasons are obvious.

In the Wounded Warriors Commission survey, 33 percent of Active-Duty 
and 22 percent of Reserve components and 37 percent of retired/
separated servicemembers report that family members or close friends 
relocated for extended periods of time to be with them while they were 
in the hospital. Twenty-one percent of Active-Duty, 15 percent of 
Reserve components, and 24 percent of retired/separated servicemembers 
say friends or family gave up a job to be with them or act as their 
caregiver.

It seems to me they shouldn't have to give up a job in order to be 
with a recuperating servicemember coming back from Iraq or Afghanistan. 
The Commission's findings indicate the critical role that family and 
friends play in the recovery of our wounded servicemembers. Currently 
FMLA provides for 3 months of job-protected unpaid leave to a spouse, 
parent or child acting as a caregiver for a person with a serious 
illness. The report indicates that many servicemembers rely on other 
family members or friends to care for them. My amendment allows these 
other caregivers--siblings, cousins, friends or significant others to 
take leave for up to six months, when our returning heroes need them 
the most, without fear of losing their jobs. My amendment goes beyond 
some other proposals in other ways as well. It covers caregivers 
staying with the recovering servicemember in a military hospital as 
well as those providing care at home. This proposal would apply to all 
individuals currently covered by FMLA, including federal civil 
servants, who might find themselves caring for a wounded warrior.

My amendment only addresses servicemembers with combat-related 
injuries. This is a narrow universe of individuals who experience 
extraordinary circumstances. Taking care of our soldiers, sailors, 
airman and Marines returning from Iraq and Afghanistan was the point of 
the Commission and the Wounded Warriors Act that we recently passed. I 
can't think of anything more important that we could do this week 
before August break than to pass a proposal that would provide these 
service men and women the opportunity to have a loved one with them as 
they recover.

I send my amendment to the desk. I thank my colleague from 
Massachusetts for his tireless work, the Senator from Montana, of 
course, and the Senator from Iowa, who have worked hard on children's 
issues, and ask them to consider this amendment at the appropriate 
time.

I yield the floor.