---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2892, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `d29c1e65946179cf80b9253e1e15b090`
`Mr. HOLT — 15 October 2009`

---


Mr. HOLT. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this bill.

The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for 2010 
continues to fund a series of important public safety and disaster 
preparedness initiatives. To help us better protect our borders, the 
bill provides $3.587 billion, $86 million above 2009, to fully support 
20,163 Border Patrol agents--which has expanded by 6,000 since 2006. 
The bill also provides $373.7 million, $73.7 million above 2009, for 
the US-VISIT program. US-VISIT uses biometrics to track the entry of 
visitors to the United States. The bill directs that a total of $50 
million be used to implement a biometric air exit capability so that we 
can determine if individuals have overstayed their visas.

Ensuring that 100 percent of air cargo is screened for explosives is 
essential to our efforts to thwart future terrorist attacks. To that 
end, the bill provides $122.8 million, including $3.5 million above the 
budget request for 50 additional inspectors to ensure compliance with 
the 100 percent screening mandate set for August 2010 in the 9/11 Act. 
Regarding rail security, the bill builds on my previous work by 
providing $300 million to protect critical transit infrastructure, 
including freight rail, Amtrak and ferry systems in high-threat areas. 
I remain very concerned that Amtrak in particular has been extremely 
slow to make the kind of security upgrades that are necessary to make 
the system less vulnerable to the kinds of attacks that killed so many 
in Madrid, London, and Mubai over the last 5 years, and I will continue 
to press Amtrak officials to quickly implement security improvements 
for the system.

I am also pleased that some key needs in my district are being met in 
this bill. The Township of Old Bridge will receive $500,000 to upgrade 
its emergency communications system, and the City of Trenton will 
receive $300,000 to help protect its water filtration plant from 
periodic Delaware River floods. Even as we take measures to protect our 
country and communities from potential terrorist attacks, it's 
important to remember that the most common calamities that strike our 
towns come from nature and other sources. We must ensure that our 
communities are prepared to meet the full range of threats they may 
face.

I am disappointed that this bill allows the Secretary of Defense to 
withhold indefinitely from public release photographs of potential 
detainee abuse by U.S. government personnel. The assumption underlying 
this provision is that the release of the photographs would lead to 
increased violence against U.S. government personnel (civilian and 
military) overseas in the Middle East and southwest Asia. I would 
respectfully submit that our repeated mistargeting of civilians in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan, along with our continuing and expanding 
military presence in Afghanistan, provide our enemies with far better 
recruiting tools than the photographs in question might ever provide.

I regret that the conferees did not direct the Attorney General to 
review the photos to determine if any do in fact show evidence of 
violations of either domestic or international law


with respect to the treatment of detainees. Using one law to shield 
from disclosure information that might be prosecutable under another 
law undermines the very foundation of our legal system and sends a 
clear signal to the world that we will cast aside our obligations under 
international law if it is politically expedient for us to do so. The 
best way we can protect our soldiers and civilians working overseas is 
to show that we will not tolerate the abuse of other human beings in 
our custody and that we will not hide our complicity in such acts 
behind politically expedient legal contortionisms.

Despite this serious flaw in the bill, I will support it and urge my 
colleagues to do likewise.