---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `d2d2b6e252ccc64579ad0712dbdf133c`
`Mr. HAGEL — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Madam President, I wish to follow along with what my 
distinguished colleague from Virginia was addressing and that is the 
difference between the two amendments that are before the Senate. I 
will address the Graham resolution first. I think therein lies the most 
significant difference between the Graham amendment and the Hagel 
amendment.

The Graham amendment is a sense-of-the-Senate resolution. The Hagel 
amendment is a piece of legislation that, if enacted, would have the 
force of law.

I wish to also address an issue that has developed some credibility 
in this debate in the last 2 days and that is that Congress has no role 
in this. I have heard some of my colleagues talk about micromanaging 
the war and micromanaging the Defense Department. We do have a 
Constitution. If you look at article I of the Constitution, section 8, 
I will read a sentence or two from that regarding the issue of what the 
role of the Congress is. Certainly, I think most everybody knows that 
only the Congress can declare war and raise money for our Armed Forces.

More to the point, it says Congress has the responsibility ''to make 
Rules for the Government and Regulations of the land and naval 
Forces.'' That would certainly include the Army and Marines. ''To 
provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union 
. . . ; to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the 
Militia. . . .'' And it goes on.

I hope we can lay to rest this issue of somehow the Congress is 
mucking around in someone else's business. I don't believe so. I 
suppose we could dispense with congressional action and abolish the 
Congress, and some people would find that more effective and efficient. 
Until we change the Constitution, I doubt that is going to happen.

We do have a responsibility for our Armed Forces. As I said earlier, 
who does look out for the rifleman, for the men and women whom we ask 
to bear all the burden, make all the sacrifices, do the fighting, and 
do the dying? They tell me this is an abstraction, that we don't have 
any role here. Come on. A colleague said recently in this debate that 
the war is unpopular. Of course, it is. Why is it unpopular? Because 
Congress is mucking around in this? No, I think just the opposite. The 
war is unpopular because our policy is not working in Iraq. We are 
ruining our military over Iraq. Just as General Petraeus has said 
before our committee, there will be no military solution in Iraq.


I think most of us understand that only a political accommodation, 
only a political reconciliation is going to work Iraq toward some sense 
of stability, some sense of security. But yet we keep pushing the 
military out there, pushing the military out there, let them do it, let 
them do it, as we ruin our military.

Of course, the Congress has a very important and significant 
responsibility and role in this debate. I remind everyone what has 
happened to our military because of what we are doing.

One other point. What is more important in a free society? Is an 
abstract policy more important than our people, more important than our 
marines and our soldiers? They are our most precious and important 
resource.

Our amendment, this bipartisan amendment, gives the President waiver 
authority if the President believes it is in the national interest, it 
is a national emergency to change this policy. He has that authority. 
We don't micromanage. We don't tie his hands. If we listen to some of 
this debate, a 12-month deployment in Iraq is outrageously simple and 
easy and that somehow we are incurring on the President's power and the 
power of the Secretary of Defense to do that. That actually used to be 
the policy. I know it is outrageous to ask these people to only spend 
12 months, that 15 months, 18 months is better, plus two, three, four 
tours is good. Yes, Congress has a role in this effort and this is what 
our amendment does. We include the Army National Guard. We include the 
Army Reserve. We include the Marines.

In the end, as we look at the full and complete dynamic picture of 
Iraq and what we are asking out of these men and women in uniform, then 
some semblance of common sense, some semblance of decency in how we 
treat our people is required.

Today our force capability does not match our mission. We are 
destroying our military. We are overburdening our military. We are 
burning out the circuits of our military, not because they are not good 
and professional and doing everything we tell them and ask of them. Of 
course, they are. But they can't do this alone. As General Petraeus has 
said, there will be no military solution to Iraq. Of course.

We need a policy worthy of these men and women whom we ask to fight 
and die for this country. Today this policy is not there. This is 
beginning to change that policy. I hope our colleagues will look 
seriously at this amendment and understand the very significant 
differences between the Hagel-Levin amendment versus the Graham-Kyl 
amendment. There are differences.

Madam President, I yield the floor.