---
---

# None
## `d2d7fc5f81c8e9663cb582931d6b5965`
`Mr. BYRD — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I rise tonight at this late hour. The hour 
is late and the night is black. I rise tonight to shine a bright light 
on political chicanery that is playing out on the Senate floor.

In November, America voted for a change. The people sent a strong 
signal that they wanted less partisanship and more accountability in 
Washington. In response to the voters, Senator Reid, Senator Feinstein, 
and Senator McConnell put before the Senate an ethics reform bill that 
would add transparency and accountability to the legislative process. 
They should be proud of their product, and the Senate has had a good 
debate thus far on the bill.

But wait, wait, wait 1 second. Before we can clear the way for 
greater accountability and sunshine into the way work gets done in 
these halls, the Senate is being blackmailed into an assault on the 
Congress's single most precious and most powerful authority--the power 
of the purse. That is the most powerful authority we have: the power of 
the purse.

Tonight, this reform bill is threatened by an effort by our 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle to give the President line-
item veto authority. No vote on the line-item veto, they say,


and no ethics reform. That is nothing more than legislative blackmail, 
and I, for one, will not pay the price. No one should stand still when 
this Constitution, which I hold in my hand, is the hostage. No one 
should stand still, I repeat, when this Constitution, which I hold in 
my hand, is the hostage.

This line-item veto authority would grant tremendous and dangerous 
new power to the President. He would have unchecked authority to take 
from the Congress the power of the purse, a power that the 
constitutional Framers thought was absolutely vital to protecting the 
people's liberties.

It was just 8 years ago that the U.S. Supreme Court decided that the 
line-item veto was unconstitutional. Now our colleagues--some of them--
on the other side of the aisle are threatening to hold up the ethics 
reform bill in an effort to hand the President another line-item veto 
authority. Are the memories around here so short?

Are the memories around here so short?

We have a President who already has asserted too much power. This is 
a blatantly gross attempt to take even more power for the President and 
strip away power from the people.

This President claimed the unconstitutional authority to tap into the 
telephone conversations of American citizens without a warrant or court 
approval.

This President claimed the unconstitutional authority to sneak and 
peek, to snoop and scoop, into the private lives of the American 
people.

This President has taken the Nation to a failed war based on faulty 
evidence and the misrepresentation of facts. And many Senators voted 
not realizing that was what was being done when we voted on the war 
resolution.

So I say, this President has taken the Nation to a failed war based 
on faulty evidence and an unconstitutional doctrine of preemptive 
strikes. More than 3,000 American sons and daughters have died in Iraq 
in this crazed Presidential misadventure.

And what is the response of the Senate? To give the President even 
more unfettered authority? To give him greater unchecked powers? We 
have seen the danger of the blank check. We have lived through the 
aftermath of a rubberstamp Congress. We should not continue to lie down 
for this President or any other President.

Of course, this President wants to take away Congress's power of the 
purse. When Congress has the sole ability to shut down these 
unconstitutional practices, when Congress is asking tough questions and 
demanding truthful answers about this war, when Congress is taking a 
hard look at finding ways to begin to bring our troops home, over the 
objections of this administration, the President's response is to 
demand that the Congress give away its most crucial power. Silence the 
Congress. Ignore the people. Strip away our constitutional protections 
and one may just as well strip away the people's liberties lock, stock, 
and barrel. Strip away the power of the Congress, the power of the 
people, and amass all power behind the fences and secret doors of the 
White House.

No Senator should vote to hand such power to the President. No 
American should stand for it--not now, not ever.

If our colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to stop the 
Senate's effort to add transparency and accountability to the 
legislative process, that is their right and their choice. But I will 
not blink. I cannot look the other way. We should get on with the 
business at hand and pass meaningful ethics reform legislation. But we 
should never, never, hand away those precious constitutional powers--
the last protections of the people's liberties, vested in the people's 
representatives in this Congress--to any President.

We have each taken an oath to protect and defend this Constitution of 
the United States. Here it is. I hold it in my hand. I say again, we 
have each taken an oath to protect and defend this Constitution of the 
United States. And it is about time we did protect and defend that 
Constitution of the United States.

Mr. President, I thank the Chair. I thank all Senators.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.