---
---

# None
## `d2dcc34c2568a5a5b05644e57310c226`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise to address the amendment offered 
by Senator Levin and Senator Reed and to explain why I will vote 
against cloture on the amendment tomorrow morning.

I think it is important to explain that because my friend from 
Louisiana who spoke before me had behind her a sign that said: Let us 
vote. We may see that sign again. I wish to indicate that we are going 
to have a vote. We are going to have a vote tomorrow morning. And the 
question is: Will we sustain what has been a bedrock policy of the 
Senate to require 60 votes for a matter of great importance that comes 
before this body, particularly a matter where there is a lot at stake?

This amendment offered by my colleagues from Michigan and Rhode 
Island is a very serious amendment. Some of us believe it would have 
disastrous consequences for the security of the United States of 
America, for the safety of our troops in Iraq, for the stability of the 
region, for any hope for democracy in the Middle East, and a better 
future for the people of that part of the world than the suicidal death 
and hatred al-Qaida offers them.

But you know, I have recollection of times in the Senate hearing the 
distinguished Senator from West Virginia, Mr. Byrd. He has made, over 
the years, some compelling arguments for why the Senate has this 
unusual procedure of requiring 60 votes on matters of great importance. 
I am not quoting him directly, but this is consistent with the vision 
of one of the Framers--I believe it was Madison, I am not sure--who 
said, if you will, that the Senate is the saucer in which the Congress 
will cool the coffee. As Senator Byrd said much more to the point, we 
in this Chamber have had for a long time this ability to request 60 
votes to pass a matter when there are Members of the Senate--and I am 
one in this case--who believe the passage of this matter would have a 
profoundly negative effect on our country and its security.

I know some of my colleagues disagree with me, of course. But I am 
exercising my right within the tradition of the Senate to do what 
senior colleagues have advised over the years: to stop the passions, 
the political passions of a moment from sweeping across Congress into 
law and altering our future permanently. I have done it on other 
matters. I have done it on environmental matters, where I think 
something proposed will have so adverse an effect on some of the 
natural wonders that God has given the United States of America that I 
have said: No, I am going to be part of a group to demand 60 votes 
because if I allow this to pass by less, there will be an irreversible 
change that will occur.

With respect to my colleagues who are saying let us vote, we will 
vote. But the question on that vote is will we ask for 60 votes to 
adopt this very significant amendment? I say it is in the best 
traditions of the Senate to require 60 votes before this amendment is 
adopted.

Second, before I get to the merits of the amendment or my opinion 
about it, I wish to respond to something my friend from Tennessee, 
Senator Alexander, said about the bipartisan meeting we had this 
morning, people of different opinions on this issue discussing in a 
closed room across a table looking for common ground. I wish to express 
my own sense of disappointment, sadness, though unfortunately in these


very partisan times not surprise, that this debate we are having which 
reaches a kind of pitch, a moment of confrontation on the Levin-Reed 
amendment which would mandate a withdrawal from Iraq, that this debate 
is so partisan. I have a point of view about the war in Iraq and what I 
think is best for our security and future policy in Iraq.

I know people have different points of view. I respect that. This is 
a difficult, a very difficult matter on which to reach judgment. So 
people, of course, can have different points of view, but why do we 
divide in those different points of view on party lines? There is no 
inherent reason why that should happen. It is a sign of what ails our 
political system, what afflicts our Federal Government and hamstrings 
it, what frustrates and ultimately angers the American people about 
what they see here because what they see is that too often we seem to 
be playing partisan politics, we seem to be in a kind of partisan tug 
of war. The net result of that is that nothing gets done.

Wars are always controversial. Wars have been controversial 
throughout our history. But rarely have the divisions between those who 
support a war and oppose it or support particular policies associated 
with it and oppose it been as partisan as they are at this moment. It 
has to stop. If it doesn't stop on Iraq, I believe our Nation will be 
weakened seriously.

We have to find ways, no matter what the partisan pressures are, to 
come together as Americans to defend our Nation against those who hate 
us all--al-Qaida, Iran, the fanatics running around who exhort the tens 
of thousands to shout ''Death to America.'' They have been doing it 
since the revolution of 1979. They do it weekly throughout Iran: 
''Death to America.'' Surely we understand they don't distinguish 
between Republicans and Democrats when they shout ''Death to America. 
We should have the common sense, let alone a sense of responsibility to 
our country, to come together and defend our Nation against those who 
want to destroy us, as al-Qaida began to do on 9/11.

I regret the partisanship that characterizes this debate.

I wish to talk very briefly about how we got here, not going over it 
in any detail. This Congress authorized the President to take action to 
overthrow Saddam Hussein after the administration had attempted, 
through the United Nations Security Council, to get Saddam to take 
certain steps, including proving to us he had destroyed the weapons of 
mass destruction, he had filed an inventory with the United Nations 
Security Council as a condition of the truce and end to the gulf war of 
1991.

I don't wish to revisit that. I know people look back at him and 
think they were deceived in why we went to war. I think the world is 
better off without Saddam Hussein in power. But this takes me to this 
point. For 3 years afterward, this country followed a strategy in Iraq 
that didn't work. We followed a strategy in Iraq for too long that 
didn't work. I strongly supported the war to overthrow Saddam Hussein 
and deeply desired that we do everything we could not just to overthrow 
him but to try to create within Iraq a new Iraq, a free Iraq, a self-
governing Iraq that would give hope to people throughout the Arab 
world, the Muslim world, of a better future than the one that al-Qaida 
offers them, which is a return to a millennium ago, away from the 
modern world, but we erred for 3 years. Many of us cried out that we 
did not have enough troops there, we were following a strategy that did 
not work, too few troops and not focusing on al-Qaida training, an 
insufficient ability to do that, and letting the terrorists essentially 
take hold of the country.


Finally, last year, the President of the United States, as Commander 
in Chief, changed the course in Iraq. He changed the leadership of the 
Pentagon, which was critically necessary. He brought in a new Secretary 
of Defense, consulted with experts on all sides about what to do, how 
to improve what was happening in Iraq, and adopted a totally new 
strategy. That is why when I hear people in this debate saying we need 
a change of course in Iraq, well, we got a change of course, finally. 
It was later than I hoped for, but, finally, at the end of last year, 
beginning in February, the counteroffensive, called a surge, and a new 
general, a great general--a general in the tradition of Maxwell Taylor, 
General Abrams, a general who was called on in a very difficult 
situation, probably the single most informed leader on 
counterinsurgency in our military, GEN David Petraeus, to take charge 
of these troops--and he gave him 30,000 additional troops.

The evidence thus far is incomplete, because as has been said, and 
will be said again, the surge was just fully staffed about a month ago. 
But you have to look at the statistics. I know the benchmark that came 
in, the interim one last week, was mixed. But on the security side, 
which is what the surge was first aimed at, deaths from sectarian 
violence are way down in Baghdad, more than half the city is now under 
the control of American and Iraqi forces, and normalcy is returning to 
many parts of the capital city, and Anbar Province, the story is well 
known now. Basically, the additional troops and the new strategy 
enabled us to convince the Sunni tribal leaders in Anbar, which al-
Qaida was going to make the capital of its Islamist extremist 
caliphate, We convinced the tribal leaders we were there to stay, so 
they came to our side, and al-Qaida is on the run--and for the first 
time. Always before we had the strategy where we would chase the 
terrorists out of a community, a city, in Baghdad, and we would leave 
and then they would come back. This time, in Anbar Province, we left 
some of our marines and some of the Iraqi security forces, working with 
the Sunni indigenous tribal leaders, and what did we do? We followed 
al-Qaida on the run to Diyala Province, to Baquba city, the major city 
there, and we have them on the run there as well. As a result, the 
tribal leaders there are beginning to come over to our side. So this 
surge, interim as the reports are, is, on the ground, working.

Now comes the Levin-Reed amendment. I wish to say to my colleagues 
this is not the Levin-Reed amendment we voted on earlier this year. 
That amendment did require the beginning of a withdrawal of troops 
within 120 days of passage, as this amendment does. But that amendment 
set a goal--G-O-A-L--a goal for our troops to be substantially 
withdrawn from Iraq by the end of March of next year. It is no longer a 
goal in this Levin-Reed amendment. It is a mandate, a rigid deadline 
that by the end of April of next year most of our troops are out of 
Iraq. A core group is left, presumably with the stated purpose to train 
the Iraqis and to fight al-Qaida, which is exactly what the previous 
policy that failed was aimed at doing.

Some have said this is the only amendment with teeth. It does have 
teeth. But I think we have to ask: Who does it bite? I think it bites 
our hope for success in Iraq. It bites our troops, as they proceed day 
in and day out, courageously, compassionately, effectively. It bites 
our hope for keeping al-Qaida and Iran out of controlling Iraq. This 
amendment mandates a retreat to begin in 4 months, 120 days, regardless 
of what is happening on the ground.

This is not a debate about whether to change course in Iraq, it is a 
debate about whether to accept and embrace defeat in Iraq. We have 
changed course, as I said before. This is a debate about whether we are 
going to give our generals and our troops the chance that they say they 
need to succeed, and succeed they know they can, or if we are going to 
order them to retreat--we order them to retreat--as they on the ground 
are risking their lives every day and succeeding.

We are going to, if this amendment passes, impose a deadline that is 
as inflexible as it is arbitrary. I say this with respect, but I say it 
from the bottom of my heart. This is a deadline for an American defeat, 
one that we will pay for, I fear, for a generation to come.

Let us be absolutely clear again about what the amendment we are 
debating now would do. If adopted, this amendment would literally put 
this Congress between the Commander in Chief, our generals, and our 
soldiers in the field. So just as our troops are on the offensive 
against al-Qaida in Iraq, just as our troops have the enemy on the run, 
this amendment would reach 5,000 miles across the ocean and put our 
troops on the run in retreat and defeat.



I will tell you this, the American military, the best in the world--
courageous, resourceful, fighting a tough fight but adjusting to it, 
resilient, finding ways to succeed--the American military will never 
lose the war in Iraq. The war in Iraq, if it is to be lost, will be 
lost as a result of a loss of political will here at home, and you have 
to judge the consequences of that. Each one of us has to.

In the midst of an unpredictable war, this amendment would strip our 
military commanders not only of the troops they say they need to 
succeed--this amendment would remove the troops from our commanding 
generals--it would strip them of the authority and the ability to adapt 
to changing conditions, which, after all, is what success in war is all 
about, putting America's military in a legislative straitjacket.

I am going to do everything I can to stop that from happening, and 
that is why I am going to vote against cloture. This amendment is 
wrong. I truly believe it is dangerous. In fact, this amendment should 
not even be considered now. I welcome the debate, but I believe, when 
we passed the supplemental appropriations bill in which we authorized 
the surge to go forward, in which we appropriated funds for the surge, 
in which we established the requirement for the benchmark, for which we 
got the study last week and then the next one coming in September, to 
me we made an institutional pledge in that to General Petraeus and the 
troops. Because in that bill we required General Petraeus, along with 
our Ambassador to Baghdad, Ryan Crocker, to come back in September and 
report to us. We wanted to give them, at the request of General 
Petraeus, time from the middle of June, when the surge troops would 
have arrived, to September to see whether he could make it work and 
report back to us.


I don't think there is a person in this Chamber, no matter what our 
position on Iraq, that doesn't trust General Petraeus to tell us the 
truth, what he believes, when he comes back in September. I think we 
made an institutional pledge to him. But I know this: I made a personal 
pledge to him. I am going to give him and the troops a fair chance, 
which this amendment would deprive him of, and I am going to give him 
until September to come back and tell me how it is going.

All of us would like to believe, I certainly would, that there is a 
quick and easy solution to the challenges we face in Iraq. All of us, I 
certainly would, would like to go back and do over a lot of what 
happened after Saddam Hussein was overthrown. All of us want our brave 
men and women in uniform to come home safely and as soon as possible. 
All of us are keenly aware of the frustration and fatigue the American 
people are feeling about this war. But we, who have been honored by our 
constituents to be elected to serve in the Senate, have a 
responsibility to lead, not to follow. We have a responsibility--it is 
the oath we took when we were sworn in--to do what we believe is right 
for our country, even if it is unpopular.

I speak for myself, but I firmly believe what is right is that we 
cannot allow our Nation to be defeated in Iraq by the same Islamist 
extremists who attacked us on 9/11, with whom we are engaged now in a 
worldwide war that stretches from Baghdad to London, from Madrid to 
Riyadh, from Bali to Jerusalem, and from Fort Dix to JFK Airport.

The sponsors of this resolution insist what is happening in Iraq is a 
civil war, and they want us to not be part of it. But this argument 
flies in the face of the statements of al-Qaida's own top leaders who 
have repeatedly told us they consider Iraq to be, today, the central 
battlefield of their world war against us. We didn't start this world 
war, they did, by attacking us.

I wish to take a moment to read some comments, direct quotes, from 
leaders of al-Qaida that make this clear. I am not making it up. I am 
not quoting somebody in the administration.

December 2004. Osama bin Laden.




 I now address my speech to the whole of the Islamic nation. 


 Listen and understand. The most important and serious issue 


 today for the whole world is this Third World war. It is 


 raging in the lands of the two rivers--Iraq. The world's 


 millstone and pillar is Baghdad, the capital of the 


 caliphate.


July 2005, Ayman al-Zawahiri, second to bin Laden, as we know, in al-
Qaida. A letter to Abu Mus'ab al-Zarqawi, the head of Iraq, 
subsequently killed by coalition forces. Quote from Zawahiri to 
Zarqawi:




 I want to be the first to congratulate you for what God has 


 blessed you with in terms of fighting a battle in the heart 


 of the Islamic world, what is now the place for the greatest 


 battle of Islam in this era.


Zawahiri, in that same letter:




 The Mujahadeen must not have their mission end with the 


 expulsion of the Americans from Iraq. No, the first stage is 


 to expel the Americans from Iraq; the second stage is to 


 establish an Islamic authority, or emirate, over as much of 


 the territory as you can, to spread its power in Iraq.


And then there is a third stage Zawahiri says.




 The third stage is to extend the jihad to the secular 


 countries neighboring Iraq.


This is not me. This is not some administration spokesperson, this is 
Zawahiri, No. 2 in al-Qaida.

December of 2006, Zawahiri says:




 The backing of the jihad in Afghanistan and Iraq today is 


 to back the most important battlefields in which the crusade 


 against Islam is in progress, and the defeat of the crusaders 


 will have a far-reaching effect on the future of the Muslim 


 Umah.


I could go on. I will read one final one. May 2007, 2 months ago, and 
this is Zawahiri again in a tape.




 The critical importance of the jihad in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan becomes clear, because the defeat of the 


 crusaders there soon, Allah permitted, lead to the setting up 


 of two mujahedin emirates, which will be launch pads for the 


 liberation of the Islamic lands and the establishment of the 


 caliphate. That is why I call on the Muslim Umah not to lag 


 behind or tarry in supporting jihad in general and jihad in 


 Iraq and Afghanistan in particular, in view of the pivotal 


 importance of these two arenas.


I started this because I said that some of my colleagues offering 
this amendment say we are in a civil war in Iraq and we ought not to be 
there. There is sectarian violence. That is why we have the 
counterinsurgency plan, which is to try to stop the sectarian violence, 
and it is working so far. Surely we don't know whether it will work 
finally, but sectarian violence has been significantly reduced in 
Baghdad and now Anbar and Diyala Provinces. But the argument that this 
is simply a civil war is totally rejected, denied by these statements 
of al-Qaida's own leaders.

We are fighting al-Qaida in Iraq. You can't withdraw from Iraq and 
fight al-Qaida. That is whom we are fighting. Who is going to win if we 
pull out? Al-Qaida will and Iran will. Listen to what Zawahiri and bin 
Laden said they are going to do: They are going to establish the 
capital of the caliphate, the empire, and they are going to go out into 
the neighboring countries.

Incidentally, the notion that somehow we are not fighting al-Qaida in 
Iraq and that this is just a civil war also flies in the face of the 
National Intelligence Estimate on al-Qaida that was released today, 
which describes al-Qaida in Iraq as the most visible and capable 
affiliate of al-Qaida worldwide. Of note, and I quote in full:




 We assess that al-Qaeda will probably seek to leverage the 


 context and capabilities of al-Qaeda in Iraq, its most 


 visible and capable affiliate, and the only one that is 


 beyond bin Laden and Zawahiri, the only local affiliate known 


 to have expressed a desire to attack the American homeland.


So I know people laugh or jest when people say if we don't defeat 
them there we will be fighting them here, but this is what the National 
Intelligence Estimate says. We are fighting al-Qaida in Iraq, the only 
local affiliate of al-Qaida that has also talked about, and some have 
reason to believe may be acting upon, their desire to attack America 
here in our homeland. That is the National Intelligence Estimate.

It seems to me that it is perverse that on the same day we receive 
this National Intelligence Estimate about the threat posed by al-Qaida 
and about its direct linkage to Iraq, Zawahiri to Zarqawi, bin Laden 
talking about the centrality of what is happening in Iraq, that the 
Senate would consider voting for an amendment mandating our retreat in 
the face of al-Qaida from Iraq.

I ask, why is this amendment before us? One of the most commonly 
heard explanations for the amendment mandating the beginning of a 
withdrawal of American troops in 120 days, and most of them out by next 
April, is that an American military retreat is necessary--and I quote 
here one of the


sponsors of the amendment--''to prod the Iraqi Government to reach a 
political settlement.''

So we are going to force a retreat, probably threaten the viability 
of the Iraqi Government, yield the country to al-Qaida and Iranian-
backed terrorists, and we are doing it to send a message to the Iraqi 
political leadership that they better get their act together. But the 
argument that our forcing a retreat of our military, our troops, will 
prod the Iraqi Government to reach a political settlement is pure 
speculation. It is amateur psychology without any evidence that I can 
see to support it. In fact, the expert evidence goes in the other 
direction. From people who follow what is happening in Iraq closely, 
who say that as soon--and maybe some of this is psychology, too, but to 
me it seems more sensible than the other argument--as soon as we begin 
to set a deadline date, the Iraqi political leadership is not going to 
suddenly come together and settle their differences, they are going to 
hunker down in camps and get ready for the battle of all battles, which 
will be a total civil war, huge ethnic slaughter I fear, probably a 
kind of genocide.

One of our military leaders in Iraq when I was there 5 weeks ago said 
to me: Senator, if your colleagues don't like what they see in Darfur 
today, and they should not like it, they are going to hate what they 
see in Iraq if the American military pulls out before the Iraqis can 
maintain security.

Here, too, we have a National Intelligence Estimate that directly 
rejects the contention that we need to force a retreat of our troops, 
open the country to a takeover by al-Qaida in Iraq, to convince the 
Iraqi Government to reach a political settlement.

There was a recent National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq. In it, the 
conclusion was presented that the rapid withdrawal of U.S. troops 
required by this amendment would, ''almost certainly have adverse 
effects on national reconciliation'' in Iraq.

So rather than promoting political progress, this amendment would 
have the exact opposite effect than its sponsors intend, and actually 
undermine it.

I know that cots have been brought in tonight to allow Senators to 
sleep during parts of the night when they are not required on the 
floor. I think, really, what I hope this does is wake up the Senators 
and wake up the American people to the threat we face; to wake them up 
to what our intelligence agencies are saying about Iraq, to what the 
stakes for us are in Iraq, for what the consequences are for us of a 
defeat in Iraq, for the strength of the Petraeus counteroffensive surge 
and how much it is achieving.

It is time for all of us to wake up to what is actually happening in 
Iraq before it is too late. It is time to stop dreaming that a mandated 
withdrawal, or whatever you call it--a redeployment is really nothing 
other than a mandated defeat. I suppose if you don't think that defeat 
in Iraq will have consequences for our future security, then I can 
understand that. But I, of course, profoundly disagree.

We face vicious enemies in Iraq today. We know who they are. They are 
al-Qaida and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Al-Qaida is fighting in Iraq 
because they want to bring down the Iraqi Government and they want to 
stop any progress toward self-government until a modern Iraq. They want 
the state to fail so they can establish what bin Laden, Zawahiri, and 
Zarqawi said clearly, a caliphate, an empire with the capital of the 
empire there.

What about Iran? Iran is training, funding, and arming terrorists to 
kill Americans in Iraq. This Senate spoke unanimously against that, 
presenting evidence of it last week, 97 to 0. Why does Iran do that? It 
wants America out of Iraq so it can dominate that country and the 
region.

These are enemies that cannot be negotiated with or reasoned out of 
existence. I am all for diplomacy with Iran. I am glad our ambassador 
met with their ambassador in Baghdad in May, but ultimately 
negotiations that have gone on with Iran, conducted by the European 
Governments for more than 2 years to try to convince them to stop the 
development of nuclear weapons, produced nothing but giving them 2 more 
years to go ahead with that development. These are not enemies who are 
interested in the political reconciliation of which the sponsors of 
this amendment speak.

In other words, al-Qaida and Iran are not fighting in Iraq to 
encourage or bring about a political reconciliation. These enemies must 
be confronted and defeated through force of arms. That is precisely 
what our brave men and women in uniform are doing today under this new 
counterinsurgency strategy, and they are succeeding. I ask my 
colleagues in this Chamber finally to listen carefully to the words of 
a great American soldier, Rick Lynch, commander of the Third Infantry 
Division now serving in Iraq. His soldiers are, today, leading the 
fight south of Baghdad. General Lynch reported just this past weekend 
that his forces were making significant gains in reclaiming areas that 
just a few weeks ago in Baghdad were terrorist safe havens. These are 
towns on the outskirts of Baghdad where al-Qaida in Iraq had terrorized 
the local population into submission and then set up shop, assembling 
the car bombs that then were used to kill hundreds of innocent people 
earlier this year. That is the way to try to stop these suicidal 
maniacs from blowing themselves up and killing a lot of Iraqis and 
Americans with them--which is their attempt to respond to our 
counteroffensive surge policy and their attempt to do something else: 
to influence the American public opinion to get out of Iraq.

General Lynch also stated that in his professional military 
judgment--this is a soldier, not a politician--the current troop surge 
must be maintained through early next year in order to achieve success. 
In his words:




 It's going to take us through the summer and fall to deny 


 the enemy his sanctuaries and then it's going to take us 


 through the first of the year into the spring to consolidate 


 these gains.


Incidentally, it may be that those gains will be consolidated by next 
spring, and we will be able to begin to draw down some of the American 
forces there. But do we have the confidence to know that today, to 
mandate that to happen? I hope we are in a position--and I am sure 
General Petraeus does, and I am sure the President does--to begin to 
order that kind of beginning of withdrawal because the surge has 
succeeded, not order a withdrawal as an alternative policy to the 
surge.

I return to General Lynch. He warned that pulling back before the job 
was completed would ''create an environment where the enemy would come 
back in and fill the void.'' General Lynch also reported that he was 
''amazed at the cooperation his troops were encountering in previously 
hostile areas.'' In his words:




 When we go out there the first question the Iraqis ask us 


 is, are you staying? And the second question is, how can we 


 help?


In other words, what General Lynch said is what they are worried 
about is our leaving. And our answer is: We are staying. And when we 
give that answer they say: How can we help?

They want a better future than al-Qaida and Iran controlling their 
country. General Lynch has given us a clear and compelling explanation 
in the direct words of a soldier about the nature of this war. In his 
view, the U.S. military needs the additional troops that are now in 
theater to prevail, and they are, as we speak, prevailing. In this 
regard, the choice before this Senate is a direct one. Either General 
Lynch is badly mistaken about the reality of this war or this amendment 
is badly mistaken about the reality of this war. They cannot both be 
right.

I go with General Lynch. He is on the ground. He has no motives other 
than to do what is right for his country. He has every motive to want 
to protect his troops. But he believes in our cause.

We have a choice to make. We can ignore the recommendations of our 
general in the field and withdraw in defeat. We can rationalize our 
action with reassuring but falsely hopeful words such as 
''redeployment,'' but no matter what we say our enemy will know that 
America's will has been broken by the barbarity of their blood lust, 
the very barbarity we declare we are fighting, but from which, if this 
amendment ever passed, we would actually be running.

There is, of course, no guarantee that the path we are on will lead 
to success. There never is in war. But what General Petraeus is 
offering is a strong, smart, and practical strategy, informed by his 
experience and expertise, that carries a reasonable hope of victory


from whose jaws this amendment would snatch defeat. This amendment is a 
surrender to terrorism. It is a victory to al-Qaida and Iran. It is an 
invitation to a disaster for Iraq, the Middle East, and most directly 
the United States of America.

Iraq is not lost. It can be won, and if it is won we will have 
secured a better, brighter future for the people of that country, the 
hope of greater stability and opportunity and peace for the people of 
the region, and the hope and promise of greater security for the 
American people. Iraq is not lost. But if we adopt this amendment it 
will be; so, I fear, will so much of our hope for democracy and 
stability in the Middle East and for our own safety from terrorism here 
at home. That is why I will vote against cloture and against the Levin-
Reed amendment tomorrow morning.

I yield the floor.