# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `d2ded6dc77cbee53338ed9dea72e7461`
`Mr. DORGAN — 12 February 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, this Nation was founded on the principle 
that the future matters more than the past. It was the first Nation in 
the world so conceived. The Founders took great pains to ensure that 
each generation would get a fresh start, free of the encumbrances of 
the past. They abolished primogeniture, entail, and hereditary titles. 
Jefferson for one believed that every twenty years or so, the books of 
the Federal Government should be wiped clean, so that prior generations 
would not be able to fob their debts off upon later ones who would have 
no say in the matter.

Over the last half dozen years, we have done exactly what the 
Founders of this Nation did not intend. We have heaped debt upon debt 
on the backs of our children and theirs--the very people the Founders 
thought should be free of such debts. In just about every corner of 
government and policy, the story has been the same--let's have a party 
today, and let our kids and grandkids clean up the mess. We've done it 
with energy, the environment, and, perhaps most of all, we have done it 
with the Federal budget.

Just six years ago, we had our fiscal house in order. The government 
had $5.6 trillion in projected surpluses between 2002 and 2011. We were 
paying down the debt. But now it's changed. We racked up the second 
largest deficit in our history in 2003, our largest deficit ever in 
2004, the third highest deficit in 2005 and the seventh largest deficit 
last year.

The administration can claim to be making progress only by leaving 
out of its budget plans the full cost of the ongoing war against 
terrorism, long term relief from the alternative minimum tax, using 
Social Security surplus revenues for unrelated spending and by 
generally setting expectations so low that even failure looks good by 
comparison. But the reality, of course, is unless the Nation's fiscal 
policies are dramatically changed, we are going to see large deficits 
for many years in the future. At the current rate the accumulated debt 
of this government will grow from $8.6 trillion today to over $12 
trillion by 2012.

That projected debt is bigger than the economies of Japan, Germany, 
France, the United Kingdom and Canada combined. It's almost $39,000 for 
every man, woman and child in this country. Meanwhile, the 
Administration has provided big tax cuts for people who use them to buy 
third homes, pricey wines and three-hundred-dollar dungarees. This is 
Me-Generation economics. It is economics that says, ''Let others make 
the sacrifices while we have a bash.'' It is the total opposite of the 
economics envisioned by the founders of this country, who said that we 
should meet our own obligations, clean up our own messes and pay our 
own way, so that those who come after us can have a future that is 
clear and bright.

To this end, I rise today to introduce legislation called the Act For 
Our Kids that I hope will help spark a serious discussion in the U.S. 
Congress, and across our country, about putting the Federal 
Government's balance sheet back in order. This legislation provides for 
a package of Federal spending cuts and more revenue that would raise 
nearly $76 billion the first full year and some $205 billion over five 
years and every penny would be used to reduce the Federal deficit! It 
is a real first step in acting like we are serious about fixing our 
fiscal policies and paying our bills.

Last year on the Senate floor I spoke about an agenda that Congress 
could be pursuing that would benefit all Americans. Among other things, 
I said that two of our top priorities ought to be paying our bills and 
taking care of our kids. Regrettably, however, the administration and 
the majority in Congress at that time adopted a card credit mentality 
to fiscal policy that would make even the most aggressive credit card 
companies blush. If a part of the American dream is ensuring that one's 
kids and grandkids get at least the same opportunities that we had to 
climb the economic ladder to success, then the Federal Government's 
recent approach to fiscal policy has been a full-blown nightmare.

Unless we change the direction of our fiscal policy, the Federal 
Government will ''borrow'' trillions of dollars of Social Security 
surplus revenues over the next decade to pay for tax cuts and other 
spending. Social Security faces significant financial challenges as the 
baby boomers retire in the years ahead. Loading up the country with 
more debt and diverting needed revenues away from the Social Security 
program will only make the program's fiscal problems worse, not better.

The real question is how are we going to dig ourselves out of this 
fiscal quagmire? The solution offered by the White House and the 
Republicans in Congress was simple: They said let's run up our Federal 
credit card balances even more, while at the same time giving more 
large tax cuts to the richest Americans.

And if President Bush is successful in permanently extending the bulk 
of his previous tax cuts that mostly benefit the wealthiest Americans, 
as he proposed in his Fiscal Year 2008 budget submission just this 
week, another $2 trillion in revenues will be lost over the next 
decade.

Frankly, I am not aware of any instance in the history of this great 
country where those in charge of the Federal purse decided to cut 
revenues on such a large scale while in the midst of war. Today we ask 
our young men and women in uniform to sacrifice so much, yet the 
wealthiest among us are not asked to contribute even a portion of their 
tax cuts to what we are told every day is a noble cause.

In one of his famous fireside chats, President Franklin D. Roosevelt 
described our obligation as citizens to support our troops during times 
of war. He said:



 Not all of us can have the privilege of fighting our enemies 


 in distant parts of the world. Not all of us can have the 


 privilege of working in a munitions factory or a ship yard, 


 or on the farms or in oil fields or mines, producing the 


 weapons or the raw materials that are needed by our armed 


 forces. But there is one front and one battle where everyone 


 in the United States--every man, woman and child--is in 


 action. . . . That front is right here at home, in our daily 


 lives, in our daily tasks. Here at home everyone will have 


 the privilege of making whatever self-denial is necessary, 


 not only to supply our fighting men, but to keep the economic 


 structure of our country fortified and secure during the war 


 and after the war.


The sentiments of President Roosevelt's remarks are truly lost on an 
Administration that has borrowed every dollar it has used to pay for 
the war in Iraq and the global fight against terrorism.

I think the American public understands that one of our obligations 
as U.S. citizens is helping to defend this country in whatever way is 
best. But what we have been missing is leadership and at least some 
measure of fiscal discipline in paying our war debt and getting other 
parts of our fiscal house in order.

It is unfair to pile up this massive debt and heave it onto the 
shoulders of working families and their children. The Federal 
Government is expected to pay $3.3 trillion in interest payments on the 
debt alone during the 10-year period ending in 2017.

The legislation I am introducing today includes a number of proposals 
that, taken together, would reduce the Federal deficit by my estimate 
$205 billion over the next five years.

First and foremost, this bill requires Federal agencies to tighten 
their belts by cutting their administrative overhead expenses. Before 
we ask others to make sacrifices needed to reduce the Nation's debt 
load, Federal agencies must do their part.

My legislation includes other targeted cuts in Federal spending and 
will make changes to the tax code to ensure that the wealthiest 
Americans and most profitable multinational companies that do business 
in this country pay their fair share of taxes--revenues that are needed 
to defend this Nation and keep our economy strong and growing.

Among other things, the Act For Our Kids would do the following: Cut 
Federal agency administrative overhead by 5 percent for fiscal years 
2008 through 2012 and save taxpayers an estimated $30 billion. This 
proposal would reduce ''nuts and bolts'' expenditures, including those 
relating to agency travel and transportation, advertising, office 
supplies, conferences and equipment. These savings must come from the 
bureaucracy, not programs. It is generally understood that 
administrative expenses do not include personnel compensation and 
benefits.



Eliminate $3.5 billion that remains in a giveaway fund in the 
Medicare drug plan. The 2003 Medicare drug bill included a $10 billion 
''slush'' fund that the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and 
Human Services could tap to entice regional preferred provider 
organizations (PPOs) to participate in Medicare. This fund has been 
roundly criticized by policy experts as an inappropriate use of Federal 
resources. The Senate has previously supported eliminating this fund 
altogether and legislation enacted by Congress late last year used $6.5 
billion of the $10 billion in the fund for the physician payment fix.

Make drug importation legal and safe. This will not only help 
consumers by reducing the cost they pay for prescription drugs, but 
will save the Federal Government and therefore taxpayers an estimated 
$1.6 billion in Federal health program costs in the five years after 
its enactment.

Stop providing Federal funding for TV Marti broadcasts into Cuba that 
are jammed and therefore are not watched by their intended recipients. 
This provision would save U.S. taxpayers an estimated $100 million in 
the next half decade.

Restore honesty and accountability in Federal contracting by, among 
other things, reinstating a Federal rule that would deny Federal 
contracts to companies with a pattern of overcharging the government or 
violating other Federal laws, including tax, labor and consumer 
protections. Other provisions in the bill would crack down on corporate 
cheaters and require full disclosure of contracting abuses. It requires 
real contract competition, bans corporate cronyism and takes other 
significant steps to ensure that Federal contractors. large or small, 
are not gouging American taxpayers. Based on information derived from 
similar experiences in the past, and more recently, one could easily 
expect these reforms would save the Federal Government some $6 billion 
over a five-year period.

Abolish the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. The docket of the Court of 
Federal Claims includes a hodgepodge of cases, including patent cases, 
claims involving Indian property, vaccine injury cases, claims arising 
from the interment of Japanese Americans, and cases arising under the 
Fifth Amendment's takings clause. The light caseload of this court 
could be handled more efficiently by Federal district courts. This 
elimination of the Claims Court would result in additional taxpayer 
savings of tens of millions of dollars over five years.

Impose a temporary 2 percent emergency tariff on all imports for two 
years to help correct our country's $800-billion-plus trade deficit. 
Article XII of the GATT, which has been incorporated into the World 
Trade Organization, specifically allows member countries to impose 
tariffs to correct a balance of payment crisis. Temporary emergency 
tariffs over two years would help address this crisis, while raising an 
estimated $66 billion for deficit reduction.

Prevent tax avoidance for U.S. multinational companies that move 
profits to offshore tax havens by generally treating their controlled 
''paper or shell'' subsidiaries set up in foreign tax-haven countries 
as domestic companies for U.S. tax purposes. This proposal would save 
taxpayers another $5.8 billion over five years.

Repeal the perverse Federal tax subsidy called tax deferral for U.S. 
companies that shut down manufacturing plants in the U.S. and move jobs 
abroad, only to ship their now foreign-made products back into our 
country. Killing this ill-advised tax break for runaway manufacturing 
plants would help level the financial playing field for domestic 
manufacturers while saving taxpayers some $4.2 billion over a five-year 
period.

Clarify and enhance the application of the economic substance 
doctrine that courts apply to deny tax benefits from business tax 
shelter transactions that do not result in a meaningful change to the 
taxpayer's economic position other than a reduction in their Federal 
income tax. This proposal would save taxpayers an estimated $5.8 
billion over the next five years.

Rescind on a prospective basis a portion of the major tax cuts passed 
by Congress since 2001 for individuals who are earning more than $1 
million annually. Providing some $90 billion in additional large tax 
cuts over the next five years for millionaires when the Nation is still 
accruing massive debt and paying ongoing war costs is irresponsible in 
my judgment.

Disallow the tax deduction for punitive damages that are paid or 
incurred by taxpayers as a result of a judgment or in settlement of a 
claim. Allowing a tax deduction for punitive damages undermines the use 
of punitive damages to discourage and penalize the activities or 
actions for which punitive damages are imposed. Making this change 
would save taxpayers about $130 million over a 5-year period.

Lift the U.S. ban on travel to Cuba by U.S. citizens. Repealing this 
obsolete and ineffective restriction on travel to Cuba would raise an 
estimated $1 billion in U.S. tax revenues over five years from 
increased U.S. business activity.

Extend permanently the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC's) 
authority to auction licenses to those using the radio spectrum. This 
FCC authority was recently extended by Congress through 2011. A 
permanent extension of this authority would raise $1 billion between 
2012 to 2016, about $200 million annually starting in 2012.

The provisions I have highlighted above and others in the bill would 
help reduce the Federal debt by what I roughly calculate is $205 
billion over the next half decade. I understand that this package does 
not fully cover our outstanding debt obligations. But I think it is a 
reasonable and balanced package of spending cuts and revenue 
enhancements that offer a first installment that will help us begin a 
thoughtful process of curbing our addiction to deficit spending and 
hopefully head us once again toward truly a balanced budget not 
counting Social Security surplus revenue that should be set aside for 
future beneficiaries, and not used for unrelated spending.

Garrison Keillor once said, ''Nothing you do for children is ever 
wasted. They seem not to notice us, hovering, averting our eyes, and 
they seldom offer thanks, but what we do for them is never wasted.'' I 
believe that one of the greatest gifts we can give for our kids is a 
future without a mountain of debt from under which they may never dig 
out. To make this happen, however, we need to set aside our differences 
and come together, Republicans and Democrats, conservatives and 
liberals alike, and begin to confront our recent obsession with debt 
financing. When we decide to do so, our Nation will be better for it, 
and so will the future of our children.