# None
## `d2e0a05d919ad6155f4a2928de20c3f8`
`Mr. McCAIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Maine. I know she 
has thought long and hard about this issue, and I appreciate her 
thoughtful remarks. We are respectfully in disagreement.

I wish to make a few points, and then I know the Senator from 
Michigan and others are waiting. I intend to, I tell my colleagues, 
exercise my right of recognition as we go from speaker to speaker, as 
we are at 10 minutes of 3 in the morning.

The Senator from Maine and others have described this amendment in 
ways I don't quite agree with, including, among other things, some 
confidence in the United States permanent representative to use the 
voice vote and influence the United States and the United Nations to 
seek the appointment of an international mediator in Iraq under the 
auspices of the United Nations Security Council. I am not prepared to 
put the future of Iraq under an international mediator of the United 
Nations Security Council. The United Nations Security Council's record 
has not been very good, whether it be Iran, North Korea, or other 
crises, including Bosnia where we had to go in basically and bail them 
out.

In this resolution, I would call to the attention of my colleagues 
that it says: After the conclusion of reduction in transition, the 
United States forces to a limited presence as required by this section, 
the Secretary of Defense may deploy or maintain members of the Armed 
Forces in Iraq only for the following missions, and the third one is 
engaging in targeted counterterrorism operations against al-Qaida, al-
Qaida-affiliated groups, and other international terrorist 
organizations.

How do you do that? How do you do that? There are some people 
planting IEDs who are going to kill our troops, and you say: Excuse me, 
sir. Are you al-Qaida or are you a Shiite militia? Oh, you are a Shiite 
militia? Excuse me.

What is that all about? That is one of the most unrealistic scenarios 
I have encountered in warfare. There is a degree of naivete associated 
with this resolution which is a disconnect between the reality of how 
warfare is conducted and the utopian United Nations Security Council 
international mediator. Our troops can be there in Iraq in diminished 
numbers, but they can only engage in targeted counterterrorism 
operations against al-Qaida. So I guess al-Qaida would be required to 
wear T-shirts that say ''al-Qaida.'' In that way, we would know, and it 
would be OK--it would be OK: You are al-Qaida? OK. A Shiite militia? Do 
whatever you think.

It was al-Qaida that blew up the Golden Dome mosque in Samara. 
Following that was horrendous sectarian strife. We are finally getting 
around--finally, belatedly--to asking those who want this withdrawal 
and who support this resolution to tell us what happens if this 
strategy fails, if the pullout fails. I quote from today's Los Angeles 
Times. It says:




 Many lawmakers who have pushed President Bush to bring 


 troops home from Iraq have not developed plans to deal with 


 the violence that could follow a pullout, interviews with 


 more than two dozen Democrats and Republicans show. Many of 


 them acknowledge that Iraq might plunge into vicious 


 sectarian fighting, much like the ethnic cleansing that 


 consumed Bosnia a decade ago.


They acknowledge that Iraq might plunge into sectarian violence that 
consumed Bosnia, which was so offensive that we went into Bosnia to 
stop it, but if it is in another part of the world, then we won't go 
in. In fact, the article goes on to say:




 ''I wouldn't be surprised if it is horrendous,'' said House 


 Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey, Democrat, 


 Wisconsin, who has helped lead the drive against the war. 


 'The only hope for the Iraqis is their own damned government, 


 and there is slim hope for that.''


More incredibly, the article goes on to say:




 Some proponents of a withdrawal decline to discuss what the 


 United States should do if the violence increases. ''That's a 


 hypothetical. I'm not going to get into it,'' said Senate 


 majority leader Harry Reid.


Senator Reid is the one who announced on the floor of the Senate that 
the war was lost. If the war is lost and we are going to pull out, what 
is hypothetical? What is hypothetical about assessing the consequences 
of this withdrawal?




 Many Democrats, however, believe that any increase in 


 violence would be short-term and argue that a troop drawdown 


 eventually would lead to a more stable Iraq and Middle East.


I know of no expert who agrees with that statement. I know of no one. 
In fact, the Secretary General of the United Nations, not exactly known 
as a strong supporter of the war in Iraq, said:




 I would like to tell you that great caution should be taken 


 for the sake of the Iraqi people. The international community 


 cannot and should not abandon them. Any abrupt withdrawal or 


 decision may lead to a further deterioration of the situation 


 in Iraq.


That is a statement by the Secretary General of the United Nations.

I know my colleagues are waiting, but I wish to point out again 
another fact. General Petraeus came before the Senate Armed Services 
Committee on January 23, 2007. General Petraeus at that time 
articulated the strategy which would be employed and needed to be 
employed and needed to be given time to succeed. In fact, General 
Petraeus was asked at his confirmation hearings, which was later 
ratified by this body by a vote--without a dissenting vote:




 General Petraeus, in your view, since you have been 


 intimately involved in Iraq from the beginning, suppose we 


 announced tomorrow that we would withdraw within 4 months to 


 6 months. That happens to coincide with the 120 day 


 withdrawal that we are talking about here. What are the 


 results there in Iraq and in the region?



 GEN Petraeus: Well, sir, I think that sectarian groups 


 would obviously begin to stake out their turf, try to expand 


 their turf. They




 would do that by greatly increased ethnic cleansing. There is 


 a very real possibility of involvement of countries from 


 elsewhere in the region entering Iraq to take sides with one 


 or the other groups. There is a possibility certainly of an 


 international terrorist organization truly getting a grip on 


 some substantial piece of Iraq. There is the possibility of 


 problems in the global economy should in fact this cause a 


 disruption in the flow of oil and a number of other potential 


 outcomes, none of which are positive.


That is what General Petraeus said at his confirmation hearings. 
Everybody confirmed him. Everybody knew in this body what the mission 
was, what they intended to do, what the strategy was, and here we are a 
few months later pulling the plug, or attempting to pull the plug, on 
what General Petraeus wants to do.

I am proud of the United States of America that we went to Bosnia and 
stopped the ethnic cleansing. I am proud the United States of America 
went to Kosovo and stopped ethnic cleansing. I am ashamed we haven't 
gone to Darfur in some way and effected the stop of ethnic cleansing 
there. I am ashamed we didn't stop the slaughter of hundreds of 
thousands of people in Rwanda, and so are all of us. That is a majority 
opinion in this country and in this body. But now--but now, in the case 
of Iraq:




 I wouldn't be surprised if it is horrendous.


''I wouldn't be surprised if it is horrendous.'' That is what we are 
condemning the people of Iraq to. And on the other side, the majority 
leader of the Senate--and I apologize, because I will ask him about it 
again on this floor:




 That's a hypothetical. I'm not going to get into it.


Now, I don't know of anybody who believes that is a hypothetical. The 
fact is, when we leave there is going to be a vacuum, there is going to 
be chaos, and there is going to be genocide. I can quote on the floor 
Henry Kissinger, Brent Scowcroft, General Lynch, General Petraeus, 
literally--General Zinni, those who oppose our presence in Iraq opposed 
the initial invasion, and yet believe that at least we should face up 
to and begin to address the consequences of withdrawal. It is not 
hypothetical. It is not hypothetical.

I appreciate the courtesy of my colleagues, and I yield the floor.