# None
## `d2ef2926cab7ddd41a4ad49a7c1edfce`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia â€” 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Thank you very much, Mr. Tanner. I certainly 
appreciate that.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in order to recognize and commend the NATO 
School for its critical support of NATO's efforts to promote global 
peace, stability and security. As a member of the NATO Parliamentary 
Assembly, I have seen firsthand and I have been a part of and supported 
the many great efforts of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to 
maintain security and favorable relations between not only the NATO 
member states but with those states that are outside of the region and 
our 28-nation Alliance.

Mr. Speaker, for over 60 years, NATO has been the foundation in 
maintaining trans-Atlantic security and defense. It has successfully 
defended the territories of its North American and European member 
states from numerous external threats while promoting democracy and its 
values throughout the Western World and Eurasia. Since NATO's 
beginning, the NATO School in Germany has served as a premier 
operational-level education and training facility and has supplemented 
the knowledge, skills and experience of over 185,000 officers, 
noncommissioned officers, and civilians from NATO-allied and partner 
nations.

Mr. Speaker, I have visited the NATO School personally during a 
recent trip to Germany, and I have seen firsthand the extraordinary and 
effective job that they are doing. As NATO continues to evolve and 
transform to address 21st century threats, the NATO School's importance 
is all the more emphasized. Its support role is critical to NATO's 
ongoing operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, Kosovo and elsewhere, and 
the NATO School continues to provide much of the training for personnel 
serving in NATO stabilization mission in Afghanistan and conducts much 
of NATO's out-of-country training of Iraqi military officers. It is 
very important to note that the training and education the school 
provides beyond strictly military strategies, including civil-military 
cooperation, crisis management, and peace support operations and arms 
control and nonproliferation, issues that draw upon a range of 
military, development and governance tools.

Our recognition of the NATO School today, Mr. Speaker, falls just 2 
days after confirmation that six NATO troops were killed during 
training operations in eastern Afghanistan. Their sacrifices underscore 
the continued importance and relevance of NATO and the NATO School as 
it evolves in the 21st century, making our Nation's commitment to the 
organization and its efforts to promote global peace and democracy all 
the more important.

So this resolution is very important, and I commend the gentleman 
from Tennessee (Mr. Tanner), who is also the president of the NATO 
Parliamentary Assembly. And I commend him not only for this resolution, 
but I commend Mr. Tanner also for the extraordinary service that he has 
given over the years to NATO.