# HOUSE DEFENSE BILL AND EARMARKS
## `d2f8ab354f124842b407ee3a3a76048b`
`Mr. McCAIN — 31 July 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to talk for a few minutes about the 
actions taken by the House of Representatives yesterday when they 
passed the Defense appropriations bill. It is not a small piece of 
legislation. It provides $636 billion for defense, and it avoided one 
veto fight by stripping out funding for advanced procurement of the F-
22 fighter jet, but it chose to ignore veto threats over funding for an 
alternative engine for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and the VH-71--
incredibly, the VH-71 Presidential helicopter. The House bill provides 
$560 million to continue pursuing an alternative engine and $485 
million for continuation of the VH-71 helicopter. The VH-71 helicopter 
is the Presidential helicopter, which Secretary Gates has, I think very 
accurately, derided as one of the most outrageous examples of 
overspending for any system the Defense Department has ever acquired. 
The bill also provides $674 million for three C-17 cargo aircraft, not 
requested in the administration's budget. It has been determined time 
after time that there is no need for additional C-17 aircraft.

So what did they do in return for continuation of things like a 
Presidential helicopter that costs more than a 747 and all of these 
other porkbarrel projects? Well, the House bill reduces funding by $1.9 
billion for our request for MRAPs--for MRAPs, the vehicles that are 
protecting young men and women who are fighting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. They reduce the number from what the administration thinks 
we need--5,244--to 2,000. It is remarkable.

But what I really wanted to talk about for a minute is the 1,100 
earmarks totaling $2.8 billion. Of those, 540, totaling $1.3 billion, 
are slated to go to specific private companies without competition. 
Remarkable--$1.3 billion. You know, the bill may have language saying 
funding should be competed, but in reality it is not the case when a 
specific company is identified in report language.

Also incredibly, there are 70 earmarks in the bill for former clients 
of the PMA Group--the people whose offices have been raided and shut 
down. It is currently under investigation by both the Justice 
Department and the House ethics committee.

Concerning earmark reform, President Obama said:




 Earmarks must have a legitimate and worthy public purpose. 


 Earmarks that Members do seek must be aired on those Members' 


 web sites in advance, so the public and press can examine 


 them and judge their merits for themselves. Each earmark must 


 be open to scrutiny at public hearings, where Members will 


 have to justify their expense to the taxpayer.


None of that has happened. The earmarks in the House fail woefully in 
meeting scrutiny at public hearings. As Representative Jeff Flake--a 
man of great courage and of incredible integrity--so rightfully pointed 
out when he addressed the earmarks in the bill:




 These earmarks receive scant scrutiny by the House 


 Appropriations Committee. The committee's markup of the bill 


 lasted all of 18 minutes. Given the way this bill has been 


 earmarked, you'd never know that serious ethical questions 


 have been raised about this process. Simply put, Members of 


 Congress should not have the ability to award no-bid 


 contracts. Even worse, many times the recipients of these 


 earmarks are campaign contributors. The practice has created 


 an ethical cloud over Congress, and it needs to end.





Congressman Flake talked about the ethical cloud over Congress. We 
know about PMA. Every day, there is a new story about one of these 
earmarks. I would like to cite two quick examples.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
an article headlined ''nextgov,'' entitled ''Software company won 
earmarked funds for work on military health records,'' and the other 
article from Politico entitled ''Exclusive: Earmark critic steered cash 
to blimp research.''