# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5349, PROTECT AMERICA ACT OF 2007  EXTENSION
## `d30d9cc1099ad1595c6309709b1a03b2`
`Mr. FOSSELLA — 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. FOSSELLA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the rule.

You know, kicking the can may be a fun game when there's nothing to 
do and there are no consequences at stake. But when it comes to 
national security and protecting the American people, providing the 
right tools to those on the front lines in the war against terrorism, 
kicking the can could be a fatal bargain.

Congress continues to kick the can down the road on a key tool that 
has kept this country safe since September 11. The other body closed a 
loophole in FISA that will ensure intelligence services have all the 
tools necessary to track terrorists overseas, terrorists who want to do 
us harm. Our Nation has not been attacked since September 11, in large 
part because of our ability to detect and disrupt terrorist plots 
before they've had a chance to carry out their evil acts. FISA is 
essential to those efforts.

Why do some ignore history? Why do some ignore the mindset of the 
likes of al Qaeda and others? Why do some want to weaken our ability to 
disrupt a terrorist attack before it occurs? Why do some put our 
soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines in harm's way or at risk?

Last year we modernized the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act 
only after the National Intelligence Director told Congress that we 
were ''missing a significant amount of foreign intelligence that we 
should be protecting to protect our country.'' What about those 
consequences?

Preventing the destruction of the Brooklyn Bridge is but one example. 
More tragically is the case of Specialist Alex Jiminez of Queens, New 
York. Last May, Specialist Jiminez was taken hostage by al Qaeda in 
Iraq. Information had been secured on one of the possible kidnappers, 
but intelligence experts were hamstrung by the outdated version of 
FISA. It prevented them from conducting surveillance on terrorists in a 
foreign nation without first obtaining a warrant. As the kidnappers 
acted, lawyers sat around a conference table here in Washington for 10 
hours debating and drafting legal briefs to establish probable cause to 
conduct the surveillance. While the lawyers debated, losing precious 
time, Specialist Jiminez most likely was killed. They've yet to find 
the body and that of his colleague.

Let's stop kicking the can down the road. This is not a game we can 
afford to lose.