---
---

# CONSUMER-FIRST ENERGY ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `d3110b2cf7eb05b6ca7379192f474d0d`
`Mr. BOND — 5 June 2008`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, with some reluctance, I come to the floor 
today to continue the discussions that were begun this morning about 
the Intelligence Committee's report that comes out today, called phase 
II.

I am somewhat embarrassed to have to highlight the partisan divisions 
and sloppy work of the Intelligence Committee that was discussed here. 
Back in July of 2004, the Intelligence Committee completed an 
exhaustive 2-year study of the inadequacies of the intelligence pre-
Iraq war. We looked at it. We had hundreds of interviews, brought 
people in, and looked at all of the documents. Our staff analyzed all 
of these items and interviewed people. We came to the conclusion that, 
despite what some people had said, the intelligence prior to the Iraq 
war was flawed. It wasn't a question of the administration pressuring 
analysts or the administration misusing intelligence. Those charges 
were made and they were very volatile. They were all dismissed because 
the intelligence was bad. We passed the bill out of committee 
unanimously. It was a true bipartisan work. It stands as a monument to 
what effective oversight could and should be. It helped reform the 
intelligence community, to make it better and improve the tradecraft of 
the analysts, and to inspire more working together.

But today we have regressed significantly. What came out today as the 
phase II reports were, regrettably, highly partisan. When I became vice 
chairman of the Intelligence Committee, I had hopes we would be able to 
put behind us the corrosive atmosphere of partisanship that had taken 
over in the committee in previous years. I recommended that we work 
together on phase II to bring it to an end, because most of the work 
had been done in 2006. The minority asked for extensive analysis and 
collation and collaboration, and they prepared that. But the offer was 
rejected by the chairman.

Instead, two reports were written solely by Democratic staffers. No 
minority staffers participated in the writing of the report. They were 
shut out, unlike work on the phase I effort. It is an unfortunate 
example of partisanship being alive and well on the committee.

The report released today is an attempt to score election year 
points. I would have thought we would quit fighting the 2004 election, 
but apparently we have not. It violates the committee's nonpartisan 
principles and rejects the conclusions unanimously reached in previous 
reports.

I think it is ironic that the majority would knowingly distort and 
misrepresent the committee's prior phase I findings in an effort to 
prove that the administration distorted and mischaracterized the 
intelligence. In contrast, as I said, the phase I report of July 2004 
concluded that most of the key judgments in that NIE, National 
Intelligence Estimate, on Iraq's WMD programs either overstated or were 
not supported by the underlying intelligence. And the committee found 
that the Intelligence Committee failed to explain to policymakers the 
uncertainties behind the judgment. The report made it clear that flawed 
intelligence--not administration deception--was the basis for 
policymaker statements and decisions.

Despite the Democrats' political theater on the floor today, none of 
the facts in the phase II majority reports released today change that 
conclusion. There is no evidence in the information brought up today 
that changes the conclusions of the phase I bipartisan 15-to-0 vote.

Now, the reports that came out today ignore the fact that many in 
Congress--Republicans and Democrats--examined the same intelligence as 
the Bush administration, and they, too, characterized Iraq as a growing 
and dangerous threat to the United States.

The public report is replete with examples of statements by the 
current chairman and by other Democrats. Let me report what was said by 
the current chairman.

October 10, 2002:




 There is unmistakable evidence that Saddam Hussein is 


 working aggressively to develop nuclear weapons and will 


 likely have nuclear weapons within the next 5 years. He could 


 have it earlier if he is able to obtain fissile materials on 


 the outside market, which is possible--difficult but 


 possible. We also should remember we have always 


 underestimated the progress that Saddam Hussein has been able 


 to make in the development of weapons of mass destruction.


He said this also:




 Saddam Hussein represents a grave threat to the United 


 States.


Further on in the statement, he said on October 10, 2002:




 The President has rightly called Saddam Hussein's efforts 


 to develop weapons of mass destruction a grave and gathering 


 threat to Americans. The global community has tried, but has 


 failed, to address that threat over the past decade. I have 


 come to the inescapable conclusion that the threat posed 


 to America by Saddam's weapons of mass destruction is so 


 serious that despite the risks--and we should not minimize 


 the risks--we must authorize the President to take the 


 necessary steps to deal with that threat. . . . There has 


 been some debate over how ''imminent'' a threat Iraq 


 poses. I do believe Iraq poses an imminent threat. I also 


 believe after September 11, that question is increasingly 


 outdated. It is in the nature of these weapons that he has 


 and the way they are targeted against civilian 


 populations, that documented capability and demonstrated 


 intent may be the only warning we get. To insist on 


 further evidence could put some of our fellow Americans at 


 risk. Can we afford to take that chance? I do not think we 


 can.


Those were the statements he made on the Senate floor. Frankly, I 
said many of the same things, because he was looking at the same 
intelligence I was, the majority of this body was looking at, and the 
executive branch was looking at when they made the distinction. We 
decided to support the President to move forward. The intelligence was 
often flawed, but that was the intelligence we had at the time.

The report we have today was drafted entirely by the majority. The 
minority was entirely cut out of the process. Even with the majority-
only drafted report, the twisted statements of policymakers cherry-
picks intelligence


and validates what we have been saying for years--that the intelligence 
was flawed.

No. 2, the statements report excludes intelligence, including 
instances in which the committee knew that policymakers' statements 
were fact checked and approved by the IC. For example, the report does 
not explain that the speech of Secretary of State Powell was not only 
checked and rechecked by the IC, but that the first draft of the speech 
was actually written by the CIA. This original draft included text that 
the majority report claims was ''unsubstantiated.''

The report does not review any statements of Democrats.

The report distorts the words of policymakers to help make the 
majority's case.

The majority didn't even seek to interview those whom they accuse of 
making unsubstantiated statements.

There is a second report, the Rome report, which was totally outside 
the scope of the committee's authorization. The committee said we will 
look at the Office of Special Plans and the PCTEG in the Defense 
Department, with reference to Iraq. The report they put out today has 
nothing to do with Iraq. It is about an Iranian talking about Iran. The 
people whom they were talking to were not members of the Office of 
Special Plans or the PCTEG. It was not an intelligence operation. The 
United States had been contacted by somebody who wanted to speak to 
somebody other than the CIA about information he had in Iran. It was 
found not to be trustworthy or useful, and the National Security 
Adviser dismissed it and said it requires no further proceeding.

We wasted time, we wasted valuable effort, and we got nothing for it.

I regret to say this has injected partisan politics and does this 
committee and this body no useful purpose.

I yield the floor.