---
---

# NATIONAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND ACT OF 2007
## `d31c07bebe96705c2c36b8c0b2b3f453`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. First, if this were a serious effort to 
put on a work program, it might have been offered as an amendment to 
the bill. It wasn't offered before the Rules Committee.

Secondly, it would have said ''report back forthwith,'' and it would 
have been voted on and it would have been


added. It says ''promptly.'' Now it is true that if we were to adopt a 
motion to recommit that says ''promptly,'' it would go back to the 
committee.

Our committee is a fairly busy one. We have the subprime issue before 
us. We have credit card reform issues. House floor time is fairly busy. 
I am told there are Members who don't think working here on Friday is 
the best thing that has ever happened to them. We are getting towards 
the end of this session. We have the appropriations bills. So the 
choice of ''promptly'' rather than ''forthwith'' is clearly motivated 
by animus against the bill.

Having failed in several tries to kill the bill as a whole, they now 
say, let's do it this way. And on its own merits, here is the problem. 
I have not been a supporter of the work requirement within the public 
housing area, but at least in public housing you have administered a 
framework where it can be applied, although I think inappropriately.

Here we are talking about a program whereby the Federal funds will be 
distributed. And by the way, they are not mostly taxpayer; they are 
shareholders of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac dollars in the largest 
amount. But what we are going to do is distribute this money to 
hundreds of local housing funds, State and local funds. You talk about 
unfunded mandates. This says to all of the grantees, the Catholic 
Church in some places, or B'nai Brith housing or other local housing 
groups, Habitat for Humanity or any of the others, you must, in 
addition to building the housing, undertake to administer this kind of 
volunteer work program. Lest anyone think this is something that they 
can do easily, read the third page of the recommittal motion.



''Administration. A grantee providing assistance with Trust Fund 
grant amounts may administer the work activities requirement under this 
subsection directly, through a resident organization, or through a 
contractor having experience in administering work activities programs 
within the jurisdiction of the grantee.''

This takes some of the limited amount of money that would be 
available for housing and creates another new set of contractors. Maybe 
Blackwater will lay down their guns and come over here now when they 
get run out of Iraq and so a whole new set of contractors will be 
dealing with this. And the organizations that get this money, they are 
religious organizations, they are nonprofits, they are homebuilders. 
They will now have this new mandate to go and make people work, and it 
becomes a complicated one.

Here's what it says. For example, if you are ''a single custodial 
parent for a child who has not attained 6 years of age,'' then you have 
to go out and do this volunteer work for 20 hours a week, unless you 
can show that you couldn't get child care. You've got to show that it's 
unavailable. There are three different kinds of paragraphs. It's a very 
complicated thing to administer.

So you say to people, you know what, thank you for helping build 
affordable housing, thank you to the archdiocese, thank you to the 
Methodists, thank you to Habitat for Humanity, thank you to these 
charitable groups. Oh, and by the way, you are now in charge of making 
the parents of small children go to work unless they have first shown 
to you the unavailability of child care, and you have to go out and 
hire somebody to administer this for you.

So, even if it were ''forthwith,'' I would be opposed to it, but 
''promptly'' means that the people who are opposed to using funding to 
help build affordable housing want to at best delay the bill, and maybe 
if they're lucky enough, because they can combine this with other 
filibusters, kill it.

This is a very difficult program to administer. It is not one for 
which there has been any demand. I guarantee you it will be strongly 
opposed by all of the organizations, the charitable and nonprofit 
organizations, that will be told to administer this housing. It is an 
unfair imposition on some of the best-motivated organizations and 
people. It doesn't give them any money to do it. It gives them this 
very difficult task. It delays the bill at best, and I hope it is 
defeated for what it is meant to be, an effort to derail a bill that 
can't be derailed in a more straightforward fashion.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.














Parliamentary Inquiries
