---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `d32637dc446a75f32ac8a5b6b58096aa`
`Mr. KERRY — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize Dr. Muhammad 
Yunus. For those who don't already know, Dr. Yunus is a modest man of 
great ideas, now revered around the world, as the father of microcredit 
and the founder of the Grameen Bank. His concept of microcredit has 
helped thousands of people work their way out of poverty. For his work 
to beat global poverty, I am very proud to join my colleagues, Senators 
Durbin and Bennett, in introducing a bill to honor Dr. Yunus with a 
Congressional Gold Medal.

When I look at the success of Dr. Yunus's idea and the 
microenterprise programs it has inspired over the past 30 years, one 
thing that amazes me the most is that it all began with a loan of 27 
U.S. dollars. The beauty of microcredit is that such a small amount of 
money can have such tremendous and lasting effects to foster 
entrepreneurship among those who would not qualify for typical bank 
loans. By offering loans at competitive interest rates, or no interest, 
Dr. Yunus's Grameen Bank has been able to give individuals suffering 
from poverty the power to determine their own futures.

Last year, Dr. Yunus and his Grameen Bank were honored with a Nobel 
Peace Prize for his economic imagination. Dr. Yunus's innovation and 
entrepreneurship are certainly commendable and worthy of such an honor, 
as well as the distinction of a Congressional Gold Medal. In accepting 
his Nobel Peace Prize, Dr. Yunus challenged the world to think of an 
entrepreneur as not only being motivated by profit, but also by ''doing 
good to people and the world.''

The effectiveness of microcredit programs is evident by the success 
stories they have inspired all around the world. As chairman of the 
Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, I have seen first hand 
the power of microcredit in this country, through the SBA's--Small 
Business Administration's--microloan programs. In my home State of 
Massachusetts, Thondup and Dolma Tsering, two Tibetan refugees in the 
United States, were able to start their own restaurant in 2005, with 
assistance from the Massachusetts Small Business Development Center and 
financing from the Western Massachusetts Enterprise Fund. Through 
financing and support, otherwise not available to them from the banking 
community, they are now the successful owners of Lhasa Cafe in 
Northampton. As small business owners, the Tserings are socially 
responsible and support local farmers and their community.

From Dr. Yunus's first microloans to 42 entrepreneurs in Bangladesh 
in 1976, the concept of microcredit has come a long way. Here in the 
United States, where SBA has had a similar program since 1992, more 
than $328 million in microloans have been made to deserving 
entrepreneurs.

I have long been a supporter of funding microloan programs, which 
offer current and potential small business owners the opportunity to 
achieve financial independence, financial security, and dignity through 
work. Sometimes they use it to work their way out of poverty, but 
sometimes they use it to patch together income when they need more 
money, lose a job, want to buy a house or car, or maybe pay for college 
or send a child to college. These entrepreneurs create jobs, provide 
services and products to our communities, and generate tax revenue to 
benefit the economy. Funding microloan programs not only makes economic 
sense; it makes social sense as well.

In spite of growing support for microloan programs, and in spite of 
the


return on investment to our economy, microenterprise does not get the 
support in this country that it does in other countries. In 2005, the 
administration provided approximately $211 million for the development 
of foreign microenterprise programs through the Agency for 
International Development, USAID. In fiscal year 2006, we are told that 
the administration provided more than $54 million for microloans in 
Iraq:





The efforts of the U.S. government in its assistance to 


 Iraq have been broad based. . . For example, over $54 million 


 in micro-loans have been disbursed, resulting in 26,700 loans 


 in twelve cities, and the program is set to expand to even 


 more areas. Also, a Loan Guarantee Corporation is currently 


 being established to encourage private banks to make loans to 


 small businesses.--Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, U.S. 


 Ambassador to Iraq, May 9, 2006.


And for fiscal year 2007, we are told that the administration is 
requesting supplemental funding for Iraq that includes at least $160 
million for microloans.




 We will help local leaders improve their capacity to govern 


 and deliver public services. Our economic efforts will be 


 more targeted on specific local needs with proven records of 


 success, like micro-credit programs. And we will engage with 


 leading private sector enterprises and other local 


 businesses, including the more promising state-owned firms, 


 to break the obstacles to growth.--Secretary of State 


 Condoleezza Rice, Foreign Relations Committee hearing on the 


 administration's plan for Iraq, January 11, 2007.


At the same time, the President has proposed for fiscal years 2005, 
2006, 2007, and 2008 eliminating all funding for the SBA's microloan 
programs.

Today I not only honor and recognize the genius of Dr. Yunus, but 
also call attention to President Bush's lack of support for U.S. 
microloans and call on the administration to reverse its policy. If we 
can support microloans in Baghdad, we should support microloans in 
Boston, and every other city that's home to a would-be entrepreneur.

I am honored to add my name in support of Dr. Muhammad Yunus, and I 
am gratified to see the support he has received among my colleagues. 
But I also implore my colleagues to pay tribute to American 
entrepreneurs and to fund the SBA's microloan program. We must honor 
Dr. Yunus's ingenuity with more than words; we must honor him with our 
actions.