# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `d33caae53f0af650a2afde76ab3a3092`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I rise in support of the amendment which 
has been described by the proponent and opponent. Obviously, it would 
strip from the Defense authorization bill a provision that authorizes 
funding for an alternate engine for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.

Underscoring Senator Lieberman's point and as was the case with the 
provision this body addressed in the F-22 program, funding for an 
alternate engine for the JSF at this time is something the Department 
of Defense has not asked for and does not want. It is not reflected in 
either the President's budget request or any of the Services' unfunded 
priorities list.

I believe there is good reason why neither the Department nor any of 
the services at this time want an alternate engine for the JSF. That 
reason is perhaps best expressed in a letter that Senator Lieberman has 
already quoted from and had printed in the Record, from Secretary 
Gates. He concludes by saying:




 It is my belief that the Joint Strike Fighter Program 


 presented in the President's budget request is in the best 


 interests of national security. If a final bill is presented 


 to the President concerning provisions that would seriously 


 disrupt the F-35 program, the President's senior advisers 


 will recommend that the President veto the bill.


Before I go much further, I would like to apologize to all Members 
who had planned to speak on this very important amendment and had 
arranged their schedules to do so. We have obviously changed the 
timing, despite the unanimous consent agreement to the contrary, 
apparently to accommodate one Senator's schedule.

I hope, because this is a very important issue, that Senators both in 
support of Senator Bayh's position and in support of this amendment 
would seize the opportunity to come down and address this issue.

Some have cited the benefits of competition as a reason to pursue a 
second engine for the Joint Strike Fighter, but a competition for this 
engine was already conducted. It was already conducted as a part of the 
original flyoff competition for the Joint Strike Fighter itself. The 
current airframe manufacturer and engine team won.

In 1996, Lockheed Martin, Boeing, and McDonnell Douglas originally 
competed for the two Joint Strike Technology Concept Demonstration 
Awards. In connection with that, each of those airframe manufacturers 
solicited engine proposals from Pratt & Whitney and General Electric. 
Pratt & Whitney won the competition as to Lockheed Martin and Boeing, 
and General Electric won separately as to McDonnell Douglas. Lockheed 
Martin and Boeing were selected to proceed to concept demonstration--
where Lockheed Martin ultimately won in 2001.

That is exactly how most military aircraft engines are selected--as a 
team, combining an airframe with a powerplant. That makes sense, I 
might say. Obviously, we do not want them being developed separately. 
So with regard to a second engine, we are not talking about 
competition, we are actually talking about another bite at the apple.

I hope the great engine war is over. I know of no data or analysis 
that supports that taxpayers will see any net savings from subjecting 
the engine for the JSF to any further competition.

I do not believe there is anybody who believes more in competition 
than the Senator from Connecticut and me, including the chairman. We 
need to have competition. But there comes a point where you have to 
make a decision in the development of both the aircraft and the engine 
and move forward. At some point you have to abandon the alternate 
engine or, in some cases, there have been advocates of an alternate 
aircraft itself, to perform the same mission, as in the case of the 
tanker, and to move forward in order to proceed in a fashion which is 
in the best interests of the taxpayers and the defense of the country.

That is why the Secretary of Defense feels so strongly on this issue 
that he says the President's senior advisers will recommend that the 
President veto the bill if the Lieberman amendment is not adopted.

The fact is also funding an alternate engine over the next 6 years 
has been estimated to cost the program about $5 billion, the equivalent 
of 50 to 80 aircraft, according to the program manager.

Also, given that continuing development of a second engine would 
require in excess of $600 million in fiscal year 2010 alone, according 
to the Military Deputy to the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for 
Acquisitions, GEN Mark Shackelford. Paying for the engines in just that 
year would require cutting production of at least two Joint Strike 
Fighters this year alone.

There may be some nonfinancial benefits to subjecting the engine 
program for the Joint Strike Fighter to additional competition--
improved contractor performance at the margins, for example.

Like Senator Lieberman, I am not persuaded those benefits are worth 
an additional cost of $5 billion to the Joint Strike Fighter's bottom 
line over the next 6 years. Certainly there are more cost-effective 
ways of ensuring contractor performance.

In my view, the possibility of a fleetwide grounding due to a single 
engine--that is another argument that is made by proponents of a second 
engine--is overstated. In fact, the only other U.S. military aircraft 
with an alternative engine is the F-16. All other aircraft have single-
engine sources and have worked well.

There is no doubt the cost growth of the engine has been a huge 
problem. From fiscal year 2007 to 2008, the engine costs have grown 
specifically to meet the needs of the Marine Corps for a version 
capable of short takeoff and vertical landing. But I suggest the 
challenge there is to ensure that development costs leading to 
production remain stable, not to introduce a new engine to the program 
that will most assuredly add more uncertain testing requirements, 
complexity, and ultimately cost to the program.

So I believe the provision currently in the bill would be seriously 
disruptive because one of the offsets it uses to fund developing and 
buying a second engine derives from research, development, and testing 
and evaluation efforts supporting the program itself.

Also, it is my understanding the offset is of the C-130, which 
obviously is very much required in our operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Remember, Secretary Gates restructured the Joint Strike 
Fighter Program this year precisely to provide for more robust 
developmental testing over the next 5 years to ensure that the program 
stays on its planned budget. Taking money out of the program's 
research, development, and testing and evaluation effort will, in my 
view, most assuredly disrupt the program.

One of the lessons of history on this program is its stability in 
funding is absolutely vital to executing that program soundly, the 
instability in funding--the disruption that the provision introduces 
into the bill--brings the bill within the scope of a veto threat.

For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to support the amendment 
under consideration and prohibit any additional funding for an 
alternate engine program for the Joint Strike Fighter.

Let me also point out to my colleagues, I think this Secretary of 
Defense has decided, in an incredible act of courage, to take on 
certain institutions and the way we do business. I think this Secretary 
of Defense has decided to take on--and I know he has--the military-
industrial-congressional complex which lards on porkbarrel projects and 
unnecessary spending which, in many respects, places parochial 
interests over the national interests. Obviously, he feels so strongly 
about it that he would recommend a veto by the President of the United 
States. That would be regrettable, obviously, because we have so many 
important provisions in this bill for the


men and women who are serving this country, from the wounded warriors, 
to a pay raise, for so many things--to the amendment of Senator 
Lieberman's that we adopted yesterday that we would provide an 
additional 30,000 members of the U.S. Army so we can better pursue the 
conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan.

So, obviously, as of yesterday, the Secretary of Defense feels so 
strongly on this issue that he would recommend that the President veto 
the entire bill. Does that mean it would kill a bill? No. But it does 
mean there would be a significant period of delay in passing this 
legislation and therefore delay the ability of the Pentagon and the 
military to implement some of the very important provisions of this 
legislation.

So I would urge my colleagues to examine this issue carefully, as I 
am sure they do all of the issues before this body. Also I would hope 
they would take into consideration the views of our distinguished 
Secretary of Defense.

I do not agree on every issue with the Secretary of Defense, and 
neither does my colleague, Senator Lieberman. But I think he is on the 
right track. I think he can bring about change, at least on how we 
acquire weapons and how we spend money, and end these atrocious, 
outrageous cost overruns we have experienced in literally every single 
weapon system in recent years, which have cost the taxpayers incredible 
amounts of money, and end this earmarking and porkbarrel process that I 
will talk more on today.

Every day just about we pick up a paper and hear about, or go on line 
and hear about, some organization that got an earmark and their waste, 
mismanagement, and in some cases criminal behavior as far as use of the 
taxpayers' dollars are concerned. We have to do the big things and the 
small things. This is a big thing.

I respect, enormously, the Senator from Indiana. There has been no 
more valuable member of the Armed Services Committee than Senator Bayh. 
I respect his views. I understand where he is coming from in the name 
and sake of competition.

Senator Lieberman's and my argument is that the time for competition 
is over, and it is time to move forward with a tested engine that will, 
one, accelerate the development and operational entrance by the F-22, 
and also save some $5 billion of the taxpayers' money.

So I hope my colleagues will examine this issue very carefully and 
support the Lieberman amendment.

I yield the floor.