# WALTER REED MEDICAL CENTER
## `d349694491d9c718a34eba34d5a8d3c3`
`Mr. MITCHELL — 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. MITCHELL. Absolutely. And I think that the changes that you 
mentioned are ones that can be done immediately. But this has been a 
problem that has been overlooked for so many years. And I believe, 
because I have heard from other people, that there are other buildings 
out there besides building 18. That is not the only one. I think this 
is just symbolic of a health care system that is not only part of the 
Department of Defense but also I think it probably, and this is what we 
need to look into, may spill over into veterans' care, the Veterans' 
Administration. What we need to do is to make sure that there is a 
seamless transition from those in the military to the Veterans' 
Administration. That is one of the things that we are looking into now 
to make sure that all of those tests and all of the applications that 
people went through and all the paperwork and red tape and bureaucracy 
they went through when they were at Walter Reed or any other military 
facility, they don't have to repeat it when they go on to the veterans' 
hospital. We don't want that to happen.

And it has been estimated that there is going to be over 700,000 
veterans of the global war on terror. And when this is over, it is 
going to flood the VA system. And we have got to make sure that because 
we take care of these new veterans that we don't forget, as you have 
said, the older veterans, those from Vietnam, those from Korea, and the 
few that are still around from World War II and beyond. We have got to 
make sure that we have the resources available, not only people but 
money, to take care of the new veterans that are coming on, and we need 
to plan for that. And I think there has been a real lack of planning 
for what is going to happen with the huge number of soldiers that are 
coming here.

Recently it was reported that, in World War II, for every soldier 
that was killed, there were two wounded. Today, and I think this is 
important, when we try to measure what is going on in Iraq and we talk 
about the number of fatalities, for every fatality, there are 16 that 
are wounded.



This is going to put an extreme pressure on the military medical 
facility as well as the veterans. That is what we have got to be 
prepared for, and that is what we have to be looking for in terms of 
the future.