# ROE V. WADE
## `d359785f982f1fc8e62f3317b525bd70`
`Mr. WALBERG — 22 January 2008`

---


Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague and good friend from 
Arizona for the opportunity to speak tonight. I just came back from 
Iraq and Afghanistan this past week, and on the way back from Kabul to 
the airport, I looked out of our window of the vehicle we were riding 
in and I saw two young children running alongside the vehicle, as 
children will do, having fun together. They were racing each other and 
racing our vehicle. I looked in their eyes, and I saw nothing but what 
I would see in normal little children's eyes having fun, except these 
two young children had smudged faces and tattered clothes that they 
were playing in, in a war zone. And I thought to myself, these two 
little children could be just like a number of children we have read 
about, through the barbarism of individuals for a particular philosophy 
would have ammunitions strapped to them, and then, in a barbaric, 
gruesome way, their lives taken.

On this day, the 35th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, we live in a 
civilized country, well educated, cleaned up, sanitized, and yet, 
because of a lie, there are innocent women, and indeed birth fathers, 
as well, who are caught in a lie and a trap that causes them to, in a 
sanitized way to some degree, yet the ultimate outcome is the same, to 
snuff out innocent lives for no reason that justifies that taking 
place. Today marks the 35th anniversary of Roe v. Wade. Since that 
time, nearly 50 million abortions have been performed. That is a 
staggering number which intensifies when we recognize each abortion 
consists of one innocent life snuffed out and at least one other life 
that is wounded.

While I respect the fact that others may disagree, I believe that 
human life begins at conception. That means that almost 50 million 
lives have been extinguished since 1973. Because of Roe v. Wade, we 
have learned that a reckless majority on the Supreme Court can visit 
untold destruction and pain on us as a Nation if they search for 
results in individual cases that are outside the scope and text of the 
history of the Constitution.

We have learned that the activist justices can find ''penumbras, 
formed by emanations'' in the Bill of Rights as a basis for 
establishing new constitutional rights that are not found anywhere in 
the text or history of the Constitution, as Justice Douglas 
ridiculously claimed in the case of Griswold v. Connecticut, a 
precedent for Roe v. Wade.

Sadly, unelected activist judges with lifetime appointments continue 
to make law rather than to apply the law as it is written. As elected 
officials, it is our right to make law, and it certainly is not the 
right of judges and justices to do so. Rather, they must follow the law 
as we, the accountable decision makers, have written it.


We have engaged in a long struggle and must continue in that struggle 
to ensure that the Supreme Court and our lower Federal courts are 
stocked with people who abide by the text and the history of the 
Constitution instead of acting as super-legislators in making new law.

Mr. Speaker, today, on the 35th anniversary of that tragic ruling, my 
heart is grieved; yet, it is heartened. Though we mourn for lives that 
could have been, we see significant progress in the fight to defend 
human life. Just today, a bipartisan majority in the Michigan Senate 
voted to ban partial birth abortion. Abortions have declined by nearly 
20 percent in the past 15 years, and every year Americans have become 
increasingly pro-life. I, along with millions of Americans, remain 
committed to saving the unborn and upholding the right to life our 
Nation was founded upon. Perhaps the tide is finally turning.

I also call, Mr. Speaker, for an all-out effort of compassion for the 
women and the birth fathers who have been caught in the lie of abortion 
and have had their lives altered. A loving God offers forgiveness and 
hope and healing, and we, His people, can offer no less.

I pledge to continue to work every day to bring back the sanctity of 
life to our Nation. And it is heartening to stand here with my 
colleagues tonight and with hundreds of thousands of individuals today 
on the Mall and speak for life.