---
---

# None
## `d35bd073333fffa8c171ec92d002da07`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I thank Senator Gregg for his insights 
on housing and other matters. With regard to the potential LIHEAP 
legislation, I respect the fact that he desires it to be paid for and 
for it not to be one


more addition to the public debt. However, as a Senator who has 
believed for the last 12 years I have been here that this Nation needed 
to produce more oil and gas at home, I have been frustrated so often by 
my colleagues--frequently from the Northeast, I have to say--who have 
opposed oil production offshore, have opposed oil production in Alaska, 
have opposed coal to liquid, have opposed shale oil production and 
other avenues of production. The junior Senator from Vermont, my 
colleague on the Energy Committee, declared that we needed more 
geothermal, we needed more wind and solar, we needed renewable energy 
forms, which I certainly support in every way possible.

Yet it is odd to me that those very same persons now walk blithely 
into the Senate and want the taxpayers of America to subsidize the 
Northeast so they can buy more dirty fuel oil to heat their homes 
with--the people who objected to the production of oil and gas year 
after year. I have to say that. I know people in the Northeast are 
hurting. People all over the country are hurting. The little county 
where I grew up in Alabama, according to the New York Times and a 
national survey, found that they spend a larger percentage of their 
income on gasoline than any other county in America because incomes are 
low in the rural areas and they have to drive a long distance to work. 
Those were the primary factors cited. That makes sense to me. Are we 
going to subsidize people in Wilcox County? Who gets subsidized?

What we need, without any doubt, colleagues, is an energy policy that 
will bring down these prices. We need an energy policy that makes 
sense--not subsidizing the dirtiest oil of all, burning heating oil in 
individual homes. We ought to be thinking about things that could 
actually work, such as cleaner natural gas, making those pipelines 
available throughout the country, instead of blocking every attempt to 
expand a pipeline. Or maybe we could expand nuclear power in the 
Northeast and other places in the country so more of our homes could be 
converted to clean electricity, produced by nuclear power, which 
produces not one drop of global warming gases or atmospheric pollution.

I have to say I am disappointed that the majority leader has decided 
he did not have time--I believe those were his words--to deal with 
energy. Therefore, he filled the tree, using a parliamentary procedure 
that means we would go home a week earlier than we expected to go home 
and not stay in session next week and talk about energy and the things 
the American people care about. They care about energy and the economy. 
The economy is adversely affected by high energy costs. That is what we 
need to be doing right now.

I think this idea, that the majority leader can fill the tree and 
control the amendments so we are not able to enter into a debate about 
how to confront the energy crisis this Nation is experiencing, is a 
very extraordinary departure from our classical history.

In 2005 and 2006, we had an energy debate and passed an important 
energy bill. The Republicans had the majority at that time. I believe 
there were 15 days of debate, 20 or 30 amendments were offered, and 
many more were accepted without a full vote.

Then, last year, the Democratic majority allowed an energy debate 
that improved our CAFE standards, and it passed overwhelmingly. I voted 
for that. I think it was 10 full days of debate and many votes were 
cast on amendments. At this time, quite a number of amendments were 
accepted.

Why would we not do that now when we are facing an even more severe 
crisis? That is my question. So I note to my colleagues that energy 
prices are having a very real impact on the lives of our constituents.

According to AAA, the average price of regular unleaded gasoline was 
$4.03 this morning. As a result, the typical American family, with two 
cars, is paying approximately--we have calculated this out, according 
to average miles driven--paying $1,260 more this year for the same 
number of gallons of gasoline they were purchasing last year. That 
amounts to a $105-per-month increase in expenditures for each family. 
Remember, people have paid taxes, they have had Social Security 
withheld, they have paid their insurance, their house payment, and all 
their basic expenses. You only have a certain amount of money. The 
American people are unhappy because they are paying an extra $105 per 
month for the same amount of gasoline they were purchasing before. When 
they realize that a big reason for that is because of a systematic 
action by Congress to block production of clean American energy, I 
think they are going to be unhappy with us. In fact, they are already 
unhappy with us. The popularity of Congress is at an alltime low. I 
think, on this energy question, we deserve the criticism. I have to say 
I have promoted more production for years. I have warned against this 
problem.

As a result of our policies, we are now importing over 60 percent of 
our fuel. That amounts to $500 billion to $700 billion in American 
wealth which has been transferred out of this country to foreign 
nations. They are using it like Venezuela is right now, with Chavez in 
Russia closing a $2 billion arms deal. He is basically doing that with 
our money, with the high price of oil. He is off shopping to buy 
weapons and--hopefully, he will not--possibly use them to destabilize 
South America, since he sees himself as following in the steps of Fidel 
Castro, his hero. That is not a good thing.

I have offered legislation that would open an area in the Gulf of 
Mexico on Alabama's side of the Alabama-Florida line, called the 
stovepipe, that has large amounts of oil and gas in it. It is in 
shallower water, so the wells can be drilled in a fashion that they can 
sit on the bottom. With the deep drilling we are doing today, you have 
to have a ship. The waters are so deep, they cannot anchor the ship. It 
has to sit in place by GPS and have propellers all around it to hold it 
steady, so it doesn't move, and the drilling can go on. This would be 
much cheaper and much quicker to bring onboard.

I have offered legislation that would require the Department of 
Energy to examine the subsidies and incentives we have created and to 
see which ones are working. This legislation would also have the 
Department of Energy work on a recommendation of how to utilize our 
subsidies, incentives, and prohibitions in a way that effectively 
maximizes our energy capacity in this country, making us less dependent 
upon foreign oil.

I believe strongly we need more efficiency. We need to use less 
energy. We need to have a breakthrough. I believe we will. In my home 
State, I believe we are going to see, within the next few months, a 
breakthrough on the conversion of cellulose to biodiesel or ethanol, 
and that could be a big help to us. It will certainly be more 
productive than that ethanol we are getting from corn today.

I see my colleague, the distinguished Senator from Arizona. I wish to 
say more, but I will conclude by saying that I believe we need to act. 
Our soldiers in Iraq work 7 days a week, 12- to 15-hour days. Their 
lives are at risk. The majority leader said we don't have time, that we 
need to recess a week earlier than we projected, and we cannot possibly 
spend more time during August--we need to be home on recess--dealing 
with the No. 1 issue facing the American people in this country.

I believe that is the wrong policy. I think we need to say so. I 
believe there are large numbers of Democratic Members of this Congress 
who will support more production that is safe and carefully done, that 
will help us deal with the crisis we are facing, but we cannot make 
progress, unless we are able to vote and debate. That is being denied 
at this time.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.