---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d362d154ce52f12de7276d71d5ca0ec8`
`Mr. SKELTON — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 5/1/2/ minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I speak today with a heavy heart. I am deeply saddened 
as I take the floor this afternoon; saddened because we find ourselves 
embroiled in a conflict in Iraq, a conflict that is involved with 
insurgents that we failed to acknowledge or recognize, a conflict that 
is overlaid by sectarian violence between the Shiite Muslims on the one 
hand and Sunni Muslims on the other.

Mr. Speaker, this is a great American tragedy. The mission of this 
Congress is to urge the change of course.

We are here today because of a series of irretrievable strategic 
mistakes. Let's understand the goal of this resolution: number one, to 
fully extend our support to those in the uniform of the United States. 
I have been on the Armed Services Committee now throughout the years, 
and more recently as its chairman, and I cannot tell you how proud I am 
of those who are in uniform, whether they be deployed in the Middle 
East or somewhere else in the globe or here in our country. We must let 
them know, and this resolution does let them know, that we fully 
support them, as well as their wonderful families.

The second part of this resolution deals with the Presidential 
decision to increase our troops by 21,500. However, it is not clear 
what support troops are needed. The Pentagon says 2,500 support troops. 
The Congressional Budget Office says 13,000 minimum. But whatever it 
is, we find ourselves not seeing a change in strategy, as was promised 
by the administration and the White House, but just another tactic that 
had been used before, an increase in troops. No more, no less. We are 
here to say that is not a good idea.

The series of irretrievable mistakes is a serious list: the skewed 
intelligence we received from the Defense Department Office of Special 
Plans; the postwar phase of conflict that did not have sufficient 
planning; not enough troops, as pointed out by General Eric Shinseki, 
the former Army Chief of Staff; allowing the uncontrolled looting and 
the breakdown of law early on after the occupation began; the dismissal 
of the Iraqi Army, rather than giving them a paycheck and a shovel or 
having them do security work that is important to the stability of that 
country; the deBathification, that put so many thousands of Iraqis out 
of business, out of work, including thousands of school teachers. The 
administration has consistently refused to adjust its overall strategy.

I take no pleasure in this, but it is a moment of ''I told you so.'' 
On September 4, 2002, and again on March 18, 2003, I sent letters to 
the White House


predicting some of the deadly outcomes we are experiencing today, and I 
warned against a jagged ending to the conflict. While there is a 
peacefully elected Iraqi Government, it is a government so divided 
along sectarian lines it has not been able to accomplish even the most 
basic steps needed for national reconciliation. And now we have the 
President's plan for a troop increase, which is a tactic that we do not 
approve.

The President's plan will embroil our troops even more deeply into 
the sectarian conflict. Put together hastily, it is insufficient as a 
requirement for success. Forty percent of all of the Army equipment of 
our country is either in Afghanistan or Iraq. The readiness of our 
troops is in peril. We are stretching the Army and the Marine Corps to 
the breaking point. That is where we are, and basically it is because 
of the conflict in Iraq.

Today is an opportunity for us to express our support for the troops 
and to say it is not a good idea to increase the troop level in Iraq 
because it has been tried unsuccessfully before.