---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `d3725d11e6b11c400b27ed3408b49b90`
`Mr. KYL — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I, too, very strongly support the amendment 
offered by Senator Vitter. This is an amendment that restores only part 
of the funding that was cut from the missile defense programs--only 
$270 million of the $411 million that was cut--and it is targeted to 
very specific things that have near-term applicability, and that 
enables us to do more testing, which has been the only criticism of 
which I am aware of the Missile Defense Program--that we need to do 
additional testing. Part of this money, as I will discuss in a moment, 
gives us the ability to conduct some of those tests.

So the key point is, we are talking about near-term ballistic missile 
threats to the United States. This isn't some long-term, pie-in-the-sky 
proposition. It would assist both our allies and also U.S. forces 
deployed abroad as well. It is common sense. I hope it receives wide 
bipartisan support. I believe there is bipartisan support for this 
issue.

Let me discuss, first, a little about what some of the near-term 
threats are. They are both from belligerent nations and, as we will see 
in a moment, one from a country in particular that is not yet capable 
of communicating appropriately with its forces, with the result that 
there is a threat of accidental or unauthorized launch. We sometimes 
forget that. We are consumed with North Korea and Iran, and therefore 
we appreciate the fact that we have to have some capability of 
protecting ourselves and our allies from potential threat from those 
countries. But one of the reasons President Reagan first thought it 
would be a good idea to have a missile defense system is, he said it is 
moral. Not only does it give an alternative to massive retaliation 
against an enemy, but it also provides protection in the event there is 
an unauthorized or accidental launch.

In the early days of missile development, that was not at all outside 
the realm of possibility. With what happened to the Soviet Union when 
it broke up, that possibility was raised again. Now, as we note in the 
case of China, developing sophisticated weapons, but without the 
infrastructure to control those weapons, there is again the potential 
for an unauthorized or accidental launch, not to mention the situation 
with countries such as North Korea or Iran. We are not just talking 
about a threat of belligerency but also the potential for an accident, 
and missile defense, of course, is the primary way of defense against 
an accidental launch.

Just to summarize briefly, there are now 27 nations that have 
ballistic missile capability. We tend to think of Russia, China, North 
Korea, Iran, and maybe a few other countries, but 27 nations have 
ballistic missile capability, and the knowledge to build and use them 
is proliferating rapidly. Much of this is because countries such as 
North Korea are willing to sell missiles, such as the Scud which Iraq 
used, and they then develop their own types of missiles with that 
technology. But there are 27 countries. We will not be able to put that 
genie back in the bottle. Talk about Iran.

Some people say, well, the launch of all of these missiles earlier 
this year they took pictures of and then doctored the pictures might 
have been clumsy and didn't demonstrate new technology. It did 
demonstrate that Iran wants to be part of the club of nations with 
ballistic missiles and weapons of mass destruction capability. They 
have that capability. There is no question they have it. The only 
question is, how far beyond Israel does its capability currently go?

As the latest IAEA report informed us, the Iranian missile threat is 
real and growing. I mentioned North Korea. With the difficulty of 
knowing who is in charge of North Korea today, we need to be concerned. 
We don't even know if the ''dear leader,'' or however he is referred 
to, is still alive or is functioning as the leader of the country. As a 
result, that country that has nuclear weapons, other weapons of mass 
destruction, and the means to deliver them by ballistic missiles that 
can even reach the United States ought to be a matter of concern for 
us.

Fortunately, the United States had made operational our first land-
based system just before the big July 4 launch a couple years ago by 
the North Koreans. We could have defended against that test launch had 
we had to do so, but with very rudimentary capability. The intelligence 
community ''deems that North Korea is nearly self-sufficient in 
developing and producing ballistic missiles and is willing to provide 
them to existing and new customers.'' Some of these are capable of 
reaching the United States. So you have a real and growing threat from 
a country that is clearly not stable.

I mentioned China. It has for a long time had the capability of 
delivering weapons of mass destruction to the United States with its 
ballistic missiles. There is an interesting new twist. The 2008 annual 
report on the People's Republic of China raises serious questions about 
the potential for an accidental or unauthorized launch. This is a 
nation which, by the way, is increasing its arsenal of ballistic 
missiles. In addition to that, it has a very robust program to 
modernize its nuclear weapon warheads. So it has the combination of the 
warhead and improved capability. This report says China has problems 
communicating with its submarines at sea. This is very dangerous, with 
a navy that has no experience in performing strategic protocols of the 
kind Russia and the United States have performed for years. What's 
more, the land-based strategic missile forces ''face scenarios in which 
missile batteries use communication links with higher echelons and 
other situations that would require commanders to choose alternative 
launch locations.''

The bottom line is, whatever you think about a potential threat from 
an enemy, you have to be concerned about protecting against an 
accidental or unauthorized launch. Missile defense is the way to do 
that. As a result, I hope those folks who say, well, China isn't an 
enemy of the United States today, would at least acknowledge while that 
may be true, it is also true it has the capability of harming the 
United States accidentally or in an unauthorized fashion, and missile 
defense is our only way to protect against that. I think it would be an 
awful situation if something like that were to occur and the United 
States Congress would be asked by our constituents: Did you all know 
about this?

Well, yes.

Did we have the ability to do something about it?

Yes.



How much did it cost?

Not all that much, as these numbers reflect.

And you didn't put into place a program to protect us against that?

I think we ought to put this program into effect. I support the 
amendment of the Senator from Louisiana.

Let me describe again what specifically is in the amendment to assure 
our colleagues that this is not some massive expansion or pie-in-the-
sky proposition. It authorizes funding, first, for the advanced 
procurement of two THAAD fire units. That is the terminal high altitude 
area defense, the near-term threat--our capability of meeting that 
threat.

Second, risk reduction for the development of an advanced version of 
the SM-3 missile--that is kind of a standard critical missile in the 
U.S. inventory--additional target sets to respond to additional testing 
requirements set by the Defense Department's Director of Operational 
Test and Evaluation.

Frequently, the concern is expressed: Well, we should not be moving 
forward with missile defense programs because we have not adequately 
tested yet. These are, of course, programs that have been tested a lot. 
They are the near-term threats. But to the extent that the Department's 
Director indicated there are additional tests that could be done, this 
provides the target sets for those tests. You cannot conduct the tests 
without it. For those who criticize the program for not having enough 
tests, this is the sine qua non for getting tests done. You have to 
support this.

The amendment also authorizes funding to accelerate upgrades of two 
additional Aegis cruisers to equip with the ballistic missile defense 
systems. This is something that I think virtually everybody in 
Congress, and certainly at the Pentagon, is supportive of--the ability 
of the Aegis cruisers to carry this defense to other parts of the globe 
so that it can more readily respond to a launch. This would be the 
perfect way of responding to that accidental launch I mentioned.


Admiral Hicks, the program director for the Aegis BMD program, stated 
the need for additional Atlantic fleet ships to keep a presence there 
as well. That would defend against a threat from a country such as 
Iran. The Armed Services Committee, in its report accompanying the 
bill, stated the joint capabilities mixed study, conducted by the joint 
staff and combatant commanders, concluded that the United States needs 
about ''twice as many THAAD and standard missile interceptors as the 
number currently planned.'' This doesn't by any means fulfill that 
entire requirement, but it lays the foundation for doing so. I think 
that is another critical reason for this amendment.

As I said, the committee cut $411 million from the budget of the 
Missile Defense Agency to procure these systems. I don't understand why 
the committee would both acknowledge the need for additional missiles 
and then cut the items out. I understand the committee has a lot of 
different constraints, different needs, and it is difficult to satisfy 
everybody. You have to cut somewhere. But I think my colleagues would 
agree that the relatively modest increase that the Vitter amendment 
provides is for very specific things, recognized by the committee 
itself, recognized by the combatant commanders, as needed. There is 
nothing new here or nothing that is pie in the sky. These are things 
that are required. We need them now.

With regard to the testing, if the criticism is that we need more 
tests, this provides funding for those tests.

Mr. President, it is a commonsense amendment. It is limited. It is 
all backed up; all of the requirements are fully supported. I urge my 
colleagues to support this amendment. There is a lot going on in this 
world. Unfortunately, when you are doing something as complex as 
developing missile defense systems, there is a long lead time. It takes 
a lot of technology and testing and so on. So you cannot wait until the 
last minute to put this into effect. That is why this should be carried 
forward in the authorization for this year's defense programs.

I commend the committee for its work. It basically acknowledged the 
need for these things. I appreciate that it sometimes has to make cuts. 
I ask my colleagues to recognize this is an area in which we cannot 
afford to try to do it on the cheap. Therefore, I urge my colleagues to 
support the Vitter amendment.