---
---

# OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN GOVERNMENT
## `d3742f68d3eb9dedcd8fece346a8407d`
`Ms. SUTTON — 14 March 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to be here today with some of 
the other Members who were newly elected just a few months ago. And, 
boy, it was a few months ago, but we have been making strides. And we 
are here to report to the American people the steps that we have taken 
to increase the oversight and accountability of this government.

I am sure that, like many of my colleagues who were elected, one of 
the reasons I am here, I came to Congress to clean up the culture of 
corruption that had so flourished under the Republican leadership in 
previous Congresses. And to that end, on the very first day that I was 
here, it was my honor to proudly cast a vote to end an era of 
corruption in this Capitol and to begin to change the way this Congress 
is doing business. To make it such that this Congress begins to enact 
policies that benefit the American people rather than just the special 
interests and the privileged few.

We took aim at the corruption and the abuses because it was a 
necessary prerequisite to creating policies that benefit all Americans. 
And people were tired. People were tired back in Ohio.

I have the privilege to represent people who are the salt of the 
Earth. But we saw both at the State level and the Federal level scandal 
after scandal. Scandals of public officials being bought off by special 
interests, public officials abusing power, and Republican leadership 
and officials neglecting to provide oversight.

Democrats, in the very first hours of this new Congress, they severed 
the links between those who would buy influence on Capitol Hill and 
those who would, unfortunately, willingly sell it and create and 
facilitate this culture of corruption that the American people have had 
to suffer under. We acted to clean up that corruption that eroded the 
public trust and resulted in far too many policies, as I said, that 
just benefited the few at the expense of the many.

We have begun and we have continued to restore oversight and 
accountability since that first day in our government through hearings 
and greater transparency, through initiatives that we have enacted and 
we continue to enact. And this strong congressional oversight in the 
110th Congress has dramatically reversed years of neglect of the 
constitutional role of the Congress in providing oversight of Federal 
activities.

The American people have had enough. They have suffered enough from 
the lack of oversight. And I am so happy to be here with my new 
colleagues in this role to clean it up.

Just to name a couple of things, and then I am going to pass it off 
to some of my freshmen colleagues, but if we just go through a list and 
you can pick up on any of these subjects because, sadly, there are so 
many areas where the past Congress had been delinquent, and we have 
already had to move to act.

The war in Iraq, between the House and the Senate since we took the 
leadership in this body, since we became the majority under the 
leadership of Speaker
Nancy Pelosi, there have been more than 97 
oversight hearings that have looked into the conduct of the Iraq War. 
And certainly that was something that the American people made loud and 
clear, when they elected this new majority, that they desired.

And, sadly, in the wake of revelations of inadequate care and 
conditions for wounded soldiers at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, 
both the House and the Senate have launched investigations and hearings 
into those matters.

We are also looking at the political ramifications of actions taken 
with U.S. attorneys and the linkage of improper phone calls from 
Republican Members of Congress and senior staff that forced 
resignations of those U.S. attorneys.

The Hurricane Katrina response, we heard a lot right after the 
hurricane, after we saw the tragedy, not just the natural tragedy, but 
the tragedy in the lack of response of this government; and we heard a 
lot about how we were going to take that seriously from the last 
Congress. And now, because they didn't do that, we have been called 
upon and we have answered and House committees are looking into the 
housing and health care crisis that persists after that bungled 
response to the gulf coast disaster.

And we are also looking at and addressing the many aspects of the 
climate crisis and our dependence on nonrenewable fuels from foreign 
sources. Investigations, hearings, initiatives that are long overdue. 
And, of course, there are many, many upcoming hearings.

And at this point what I would like to do is, I would like to yield 
to my friend from Minnesota, Representative Ellison, to hear what you 
think about some of these things that we have been doing in this new 
Congress.