---
---

# RECOGNIZING AND HONORING MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS
## `d37413aeae3ec805f22379e3cec56e8c`
`Mr. McKEON — 25 May 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for introducing this resolution 
honoring those who have served in the Armed Forces and for honoring me 
to be a cosponsor with him in that legislation.

Mr. Speaker, next week is Memorial Day, and I rise today in support 
of House Resolution 1385 to recognize and honor the courage and 
sacrifice of the members of the Armed Forces and the veterans of our 
wars.

In the clearly defined wars against tyranny, in the controversial 
conflicts not appreciated until the guns long fell silent, in the 
limited actions unknown by anyone not there, the American Armed Forces 
have time and again answered the call of duty.

When our fighting men and women put on their uniforms, they became 
immune to politics and marched towards the sound of the guns, going 
wherever their orders sent them. We call them specialist, corporal, 
airman, and petty officer. They are our own children. These young 
Americans represent the best in all of us because, while America will 
always fight for those who cannot


fight for themselves, it is their faces that America sends to the aid 
of the broken, wounded, and starving of the world.

In the cold winter of Valley Forge, across the deserts to Tripoli, 
fighting against their brothers in the Civil War, across the wheat 
fields of France, on the beaches of Normandy, in the freezing Korean 
winter, in the jungles of Vietnam, and in the burning sands of Iraq and 
Afghanistan, what has set our Armed Forces apart is their commitment to 
a moral war, a just war, an American way of war.

Americans make the distinction between our enemies and the innocent 
bystanders. And once our enemies lay down their arms, our forces 
provide them food, shelter, and medical aid. And when the fighting 
stops completely, our forces help to rebuild war-torn nations, turning 
bitter enemies into great industrialized allies of today.

Since 1775, and across the world today, our Armed Forces and veterans 
symbolize all that is best in us as Americans. The American Armed 
Forces are just as eager to help feed and clothe the survivors of a 
natural disaster as they are to destroy tyranny and oppression. People 
across the globe know that when the Americans come they will fight for 
what is right, and those who rule by fear will then be afraid.

In the most difficult conditions, in the most challenging terrain, 
against the greatest odds, our Armed Forces have faced impossible odds 
without counting the cost to themselves. They have followed their 
orders, and the oath sworn to our Constitution makes the moral 
foundation of our government possible.

Since before the acknowledgement of our Nation's sovereignty and 
before the first session of this great legislative body, our citizens 
organized themselves to fight against oppression and to stand up for 
freedom and liberty. When the drums beat, when the bugles called, the 
sound of marching feet was the pride of our Nation answering the call.

Whether our veterans were drafted or volunteered, made long service 
careers or served only for a short time, they committed their lives, 
their youth, and their health to the principles of our great Nation. In 
no other industry of America today will you find a group of young men 
and women for whom truth is the only currency, pain is a temporary 
annoyance, ingenuity is the answer to all challenges, and teamwork is 
the thread that unites and binds them against all foes.



They have done all this without counting the cost to themselves and 
their families. We, who are a grateful Nation, must remember this. Our 
freedom is a tangible thing, a perishable thing, and our own last full 
measure of devotion must be dedicated to ensuring that their sacrifice 
is never in vain but that a more perfect union will yet rise and 
inspire the oppressed peoples of the Earth.

I urge the House to join me in passing this resolution to honor our 
Armed Forces.

Mr. Speaker, at this time, it is my pleasure to yield such time as he 
may consume to the gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Wilson).