---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES U.S. ARMY SPECIALIST JUSTIN ALLAN ROLLINS
## `d37a1b54888fe281fb25f9c37acff8cc`
`Mr. GREGG — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I rise today to pay special tribute to U.S. 
Army SPC Justin Allan Rollins, of Newport, NH. Tragically, on March 5, 
2007, this courageous 22-year-old soldier, along with five of his 
soldier comrades, gave their last full measure for our Nation when an 
improvised explosive device detonated near their unit during combat 
operations in Samarra, Iraq. At the time of this hostile action, 
Specialist Rollins, the gunner on his HMMWV, was assigned to the 2nd 
Battalion, 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 
82nd Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, NC, and was serving in support of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. He had recently reenlisted in the Army for an 
additional 4 years.

Justin, the son of Mitchel ''Skip'' and Rhonda Rollins, was born on 
November 10, 1984, and had resided in Newport, NH, all of his life. He 
was a 2003 graduate of Newport High School


where he played center on the football team and threw shot put and 
discus for the track and field team. Those close to him describe him as 
a wonderful young man with a nice smile and a hearty laugh, a loyal 
friend, and a patriot with a strong desire to serve his country. Family 
and friends say he had a zest for life and loved to hunt and drive fast 
cars.

Sensing a call to duty, and in response to the September 11 terrorist 
attack on our Nation, he joined the U.S. Army in 2004. Justin reported 
to Fort Benning, GA, where he completed basic training, infantry 
training, and Army Airborne School. Upon completion of his training in 
August 2004, he was assigned and reported to the 2nd Battalion, 505th 
Parachute Infantry Regiment at Fort Bragg. In August 2006, he deployed 
with his unit to Iraq. He said he went to Iraq so that the Iraqi 
children could have the same opportunities as U.S. children and he was 
extremely proud of what he was doing. The awards and decorations that 
Specialist Rollins received over his years of service are a testament 
to his strong character. They include the Bronze Star with Valor, two 
Purple Heart medals, Army Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service 
Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Army 
Service Ribbon, Army Overseas Service Ribbon, Combat Infantry Badge, 
and Airborne Wings.

Patriots from the State of New Hampshire have served our Nation with 
honor and distinction from the first conflict at Fort William and Mary, 
New Castle, NH, to the current conflict in Samarra, Iraq, and U.S. Army 
SPC Justin Allan Rollins served and fought in that same fine tradition. 
During our country's difficult Revolutionary War, Thomas Paine wrote, 
''These are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the 
sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their 
country; but he that stands it now, deserves the love and thanks of man 
and woman.'' In these turbulent times Justin stood with the country he 
loved, served it with distinction and honor, and earned and deserves 
our love and thanks.

My sympathy, condolences, and prayers go out to Justin's parents Skip 
and Rhonda, older brother Jonathan, grandparents, longtime girlfriend 
Brittney Murray, and to his other family members and many friends who 
have suffered this most grievous loss. Family, friends, and fellow 
soldiers will no longer be able to enjoy his company. Strangers will 
never have the opportunity to know his friendship. Yet memories of this 
young patriot will last forever with those who were fortunate enough to 
have had the opportunity to know him. Justin had said that there is no 
higher honor than to be buried in Arlington National Cemetery, and now 
he joins many of our country's heroes in that sacred place. Because of 
his devotion and sense of duty, the safety and liberty of each and 
every American is more secure. In the words of Daniel Webster, may his 
remembrance be as long lasting as the land he honored. God bless Justin 
Allan Rollins.











 private first class jason d. johns
