---
---

# None
## `d3a55ff8e056c6f519ab8f9b49580024`
`Mr. DURBIN — 9 March 2010`

---


Mr. DURBIN. I do not quarrel with the Senator from Alabama about our 
national debt and the threat that it possesses. I certainly understand 
we are borrowing a lot of money from countries overseas, and we want to 
see that come to an end.

That kind of indebtedness leads to a dependency which is not healthy 
for


our economy or our future or our children. I certainly would agree with 
the Senator from Alabama on that.

I was not here for his entire presentation, but there are several 
things I think should be made clear for the record. The point is, some 
9 years ago, when President William Clinton left office, he left office 
with a national debt, total accumulated national debt throughout our 
history of about $5.7 trillion. But when he left office, we were in 
surplus. We were actually generating a surplus in the Federal Treasury, 
and the surplus was being used to extend the life of the Social 
Security trust fund. We were adding more and more years of solvency to 
Social Security because we were generating a surplus.

It is hard to imagine that this was the case only 9 years ago, and 
yet it was. The government was then handed over to President George W. 
Bush, a new administration, an administration that ran on a platform of 
fiscal conservatism and dealing with overspending and the national 
debt.

What happened at the end of 8 years? At the end of 8 years, the 
national debt had grown from $5.7 trillion, on the last day that 
William Jefferson Clinton was in office, to almost $13 trillion when 
President George W. Bush left office 8 years later. It more than 
doubled in that period of time.

What happened? First, the situation beyond President Bush's control: 
9/11, devastating to our economy. We know what happened. People stopped 
purchasing, people stopped traveling. There was a general concern about 
the safety of our country and the certainty of our future, and that 
took its toll on our economy. There is no question about that. I am not 
going to go into any suggestion that President Bush was culpable in 
that regard. He was a victim as we were as a nation on 9/11. But 
conscious decisions were then made by this administration after 9/11: 
For instance, the decision to invade Iraq was a decision I did not 
share. I was one of 23 Senators who voted against the invasion of Iraq. 
I happen to think that was the right decision to stay out of that war.

But, as a nation, we deciding to go forward. Congress voted that way. 
President Bush said: We are going to wage this war, but we will not pay 
for it. We will take the cost of this war and add it to our national 
debt.

If you look back at history, World War II, for example, most of us 
remember either reading about or seeing some evidence of war bonds--
borrowing from the American people to pay for war. Yet we incurred a 
massive debt at the same time. Wars are costly.

President Bush initiated this war in Iraq and Afghanistan and paid 
for neither one. That added to our national debt. He also did something 
that had never been done in the history of the United States. In the 
midst of a war, President Bush said we are going to cut taxes. It is 
counterintuitive.

We know that in a war we need more money, not just for the ordinary 
course of expenses of government but also because of war costs. 
Instead, the President cut taxes on the wealthiest Americans, adding to 
our national debt.

Then came a proposal to modify the Medicare Program for prescription 
drugs. I thought it was a positive thing. We could have saved a lot of 
money if we would have built into it competition for the pharmaceutical 
companies. But the pharmaceutical companies did not want that. They 
prevailed. We ended up passing the Medicare Pharmaceutical Program, and 
it cost us about $400 billion, added to the deficit.

Start adding those things up and we realize that at the end of 8 
years, a President who had promised to be a fiscal conservative left us 
with twice the national debt that he had inherited and the weakest 
economy America had seen since the Great Depression.

When President Obama took the oath of office a little over a year 
ago, he inherited this weak economy and two wars. He inherited another 
$1 trillion in debt that came out of this weak economy as soon as he 
walked into the office. So when my Republican colleagues come to the 
floor of the Senate and talk about how insensitive Democrats are to our 
national debt, I have to remind them when they were in control and 
their President was in control we more than doubled the national debt. 
We had two wars, unpaid for; we cut taxes on the wealthiest people in 
America; we added a Medicare Program that was not paid for; we left the 
economy in shambles; and left the debt for the next President. It was 
not a welcome that most Presidents would like at the White House.


Now come the Republicans and say: Well, the thing we need to do at 
this moment in time, with all of our unemployed, is to cut government 
spending.

I have to say to them, I want to cut out wasteful spending. But if 
you ask any credible mainline economist, they will tell you that 
cutting government spending in general is exactly the wrong thing to do 
when the economy is in recession.

What we need to do is to infuse the economy with investments and 
spending that will keep aggregate demand growing for goods and 
services, keeping people in business, hiring people, who then pay their 
taxes and go on to buy products that help others. That is the nature of 
the kind of economic activity that brings us out of recession.

So when the Republicans argue to cut spending in the midst of a 
recession, they are going to dig the hole deeper. There will be less 
money spent in the economy. There will be less demand for goods and 
services. Fewer people will be working, fewer businesses surviving, and 
the recession will get worse instead of better.

So the bill before us is a bill that has several provisions in it, 
and one of them deals with providing unemployment insurance for those 
who have no work. Now, I will concede the fact that we never dreamed 
this recession would go on as long as it has. But for many people, some 
have been out of work for over a year, some 2 years. They are 
desperate. There are five unemployed people for every job in America. 
What we provide is about $1,100 or $1,200 a month--hardly a sum that 
one can live on comfortably for any length of time in most places in 
America. But that $1,200 a month keeps families together--barely.

Now the Republicans come to the floor and say this is a serious 
mistake. Providing unemployment insurance, according to the Senate 
Republican whip, Senator Kyl, creates a disincentive for people to look 
for work.

Well, I would challenge him. I have talked to the people who are out 
of work and have yet to find any who believe they are basking in the 
glow of unemployment insurance. It is barely enough to get by, and most 
people are exhausting their savings.

Second, this bill is going to provide for additional help to pay for 
health insurance for the unemployed. If you lose your job, the first 
casualty is your health insurance. So the President said, we need to 
have our government pick up 65 percent of the health insurance premiums 
for the unemployed.

How much do they run? It is $1,200 or $1,300 a month in my State, the 
average for a family, health insurance plan. So it would eat up 
virtually every penny of unemployment just to keep your health 
insurance plan. So we pick up two-thirds of the cost, and the people 
try to hang on, paying about $400 a month so they can keep their health 
insurance.

What difference does it make if they lose their health insurance? 
Well, two things are going to happen if they lose their health 
insurance. They may qualify for Medicaid, which is a government health 
insurance plan, which we will ultimately pay for as taxpayers. They 
will certainly lose their continuation of coverage, so that if someone 
in their family has a preexisting condition, they may find it difficult 
to ever qualify for insurance again until they find that job and get 
into a group policy. If they have a child who is asthmatic or who has a 
serious illness, they may find that child uninsurable because they have 
lost their health insurance.

So when Members of the Senate come before us and say they are going 
to vote against unemployment benefits and health insurance, they are 
literally voting against millions of Americans who are flat out of luck 
and have no place to turn and are merely trying to make it and trying 
to get by.

Part of this measure is paid for in offsets and sources of revenue. I 
certainly applaud that.

I thank the Senator from Montana, the chairman of the Senate Finance 
Committee. But then come the Republicans and say: Well, let's put more


money into this for all of the things included and take it out of the 
stimulus package.

Remember, the stimulus package was the President's way of trying to 
keep this economy moving with tax cuts for working families, a safety 
net for those out of work, money for local units of government that 
have seen a downturn in revenues, and investments in America's future.

Now, I have seen some of those investments, and I will just say that 
I think those are investments that will pay off in jobs today and in 
assets in America and that will serve us for a long time to come.

Two weeks ago I was up on the west side of Chicago, in Austin, where 
they opened a new family care health center. It is a primary care 
clinic for those who do not have health insurance or do not have much 
money, where they can see a doctor. It is going to be the nicest 
building on the block. It is beautiful. One-fourth of the money came 
from the President's stimulus package. It put a lot of people to work 
building it and now has created an asset that will serve that 
neighborhood and that city for a long time to come.

Two days ago, I was down in Caseyville, IL, 300 miles away from 
Chicago. I saw another project with about $1.6 million of stimulus 
money that is going to build a community retirement home in this area. 
I saw the people out working on the jobs now just this week.

Ultimately, beyond the hundreds who will build this project, some 50 
will be full-time employees. We are investing back in the community, in 
high-speed rail, in highways and bridges, in basic infrastructure, and 
in things that will serve us for a long time to come.

The Senator from Alabama says: Let's stop doing that. Let's stop 
putting that money into those investments.

I think that is shortsighted. I think what we need to do is to follow 
the President's lead and to make the investments in our economy today 
to get it chugging and moving forward. That, to me, is the first step 
in reducing our long-term deficit. Until we get out of this recession, 
get people back to work, paying taxes, the deficit will continue to 
grow.

What is the second thing we can do to deal with our deficit? Health 
care costs. Health care costs are going through the roof. I have said 
before that the mayor of Kankakee, IL, told me last week that she just 
got the health insurance bill for 2,900 city employees for next year, 
and the premiums are going up 83 percent. She is going to cut back on 
coverage, more copays, more deductibles, and hope to get it down to a 
50-percent increase. It will mean that in a city that is hard-pressed 
to meet basic needs, there will be an additional million dollars in 
health insurance premium costs next year for even less coverage. That 
story is being repeated over and over across the United States.

On Sunday, at a press conference in Chicago with four small 
businesses, each one told the same story, that they had reached a point 
where they couldn't afford health insurance for themselves as owners or 
for their employees. They told of terrible situations where some of 
them had children who were literally dropped from coverage because they 
couldn't continue to pay the high premiums that went through the roof.

The Republican side of the aisle has told us: Stop this debate on 
health care reform. Let's stop and start over. As the President said 
the other day, the health insurance companies are not starting over. 
The health insurance companies are continuing to do what they know how 
to do, and that is to raise prices.

Goldman Sachs is a firm with which most people are familiar. They put 
out a report very recently about what they considered the best thing 
for the health insurance industry. Goldman Sachs said, in this article 
that was published in the Huffington Post:




 What the firm sees as the best path forward for the private 


 insurance industry's bottom line is, to be blunt, inaction.



 The study's authors [at Goldman Sachs] advise that if no 


 reform is passed, earnings per share would grow an estimated 


 ten percent from 2010 to 2019, and the value of the stock 


 would rise an estimated 59 percent. The next best thing for 


 the insurance industry would be if the legislation passed by 


 the Senate Finance Committee is watered down significantly.


This says that the best way to reach higher profitability for health 
insurance is for us to do nothing. The second best way is to do very 
little. That is what we are being asked to do by the Republican side of 
the aisle, either do nothing or do very little, take baby steps, don't 
really deal with the issue. That is not going to solve the problem.

If we are going to provide competition and choice for small 
businesses and people buying health insurance, we should offer them 
what we have as Members of Congress. If it is good enough for us, 
wouldn't it be good enough for the rest of America? Our plan is pretty 
good. It is called the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. Eight 
million Federal employees and their families are in there. It has been 
in existence for 40 years.

My wife and I each year have an open enrollment period to choose from 
nine different private insurance plans in my State of Illinois. These 
are plans that have to meet the basic requirements of Illinois so that 
they are not plans that are worthless and they are plans that we pick 
based on our state in life. My wife and I are at a point where we buy 
the biggest plan, the high-option plan. The Federal Government pays a 
share of the premium cost; we pay the rest. We would pay less if we had 
less coverage. But if we don't like the plan, next year we have open 
enrollment again. We can pick another one. What a great idea for 
consumers, to be able to pick and choose, go shopping just like one 
would for an automobile, to pick the one that is right for your family, 
the one you can afford, the one that gives you the coverage you need.

If that is good enough for Republican and Democratic Members of 
Congress, Senate and House, why isn't it good enough for America? Why 
don't we have exchanges just like that available for businesses and 
individuals to choose from, the best private health insurance plan that 
meets their pocketbook needs and their health needs? That is what our 
bill does. Many on the Republican side have condemned it as socialism. 
The government administers it, at least sets up the plans on the 
insurance exchange. Guess what. Every Senator's health insurance plan 
would be socialistic by that definition. I don't see them rushing down 
to the Secretary of the Senate to cancel their coverage. They love it. 
I do too. It is the best health insurance you could ask for. To require 
minimum requirements in terms of what coverage it will have, that is 
what our plans do. When we say, do that in the bill, they say, there it 
is, government-run health insurance. It is not. It is private health 
insurance plans.

There are 50 million Americans without insurance. We provide coverage 
for 30 million. Those are people who, when they get sick, go to the 
hospital, get taken care of, and the cost of their care is passed on to 
everybody else who has health insurance. That is not fair. It costs us 
a lot of money as individuals. We pay $1,000 a year in extra premiums 
for the uninsured. Our idea is to bring people under coverage so that 
when they go to the hospital, their care is paid for, not by us but, in 
this case, either by private health insurance or by Medicaid, the 
government health insurance plan.

When we asked the Republicans, if we cover 30 million in our 
approach, how many do you cover of 50 million uninsured, their answer 
is 3 million. That is not much of an effort, when you think about it. I 
can understand why we need to do more.

There are two last points I wish to make. One is that if we are going 
to deal with health insurance in an honest way, we need to at least 
tell the health insurance companies that the party is over. First, 
their antitrust exemption, which they have had for 65 years, has to 
come to an end. Should they be allowed to collude and conspire on 
prices and divide up the market at the expense of consumers? We ought 
to put an end to it. The House voted to do that. Secondly, we have to 
put an end to the awful practice by many health insurance companies to 
deny coverage to individuals because of preexisting conditions, for 
example, or to say, if you get really sick, they will just cut you off 
in terms of how much they will pay. Those things are gross abuses. They 
need to change. The Republicans have yet to offer a plan that deals 
with those gross insurance abuses. Their baby steps don't even deal 
with the serious issues.



Finally, when it comes to Medicare, 40 million Americans count on it, 
those who are seniors and disabled. It only has about 9 years of 
solvency left. Our bill doubles the life of Medicare, another 9 or 10 
years of longevity. That is good for seniors and for all of us. We want 
to cut out the waste, and there is waste. We want to provide basic 
quality care. But doing nothing, as many Republicans counsel us to do 
on health care reform, means Medicare will go broke in 9 years. I don't 
want to be around to see that happen. I want to be part of the 
solution.

My final point is this: We started off talking about the deficit and 
debt. If we don't deal with health care costs and bringing them down, 
we can't raise enough money in taxes to keep up with this skyrocketing 
cost. State governments, local governments, and the Federal Government 
will all be faced with this kind of increased bill and increased debt 
and increased deficit each year. That is the reality of doing nothing 
on health care reform when it comes to deficit and debt.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record a New York 
Times piece relative to the health care insurance industry, as well as 
this analysis of managed care by Goldman Sachs and several articles 
which outline exactly what is going to happen. The health care 
insurance industry is praying that we do nothing because their profits 
will continue to skyrocket. That is not fair to the families across 
America.