# WHITEWASH FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
## `d3c3a1ca6fc1c046ea818f65e92e3a84`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, the President intends to stay the course 
in Iraq. His latest quote is we might be able to bring soldiers home 
''in awhile,'' and the White House is circulating a memo that they see 
progress. This is another whitewash from the White House.

When they talk about progress in Iraq, remember they misled us 
before. CNN Larry King Live, May 30, 2005, the vice president said: I 
think they're in


the last throes, if you will, of the insurgency.

By then, 1,000 U.S. soldiers were dead.

USA Today, November 24, 2005, the headline is: Officials more hopeful 
on Iraq drawdown. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told Fox News on 
Tuesday that the U.S. would probably not need to maintain its current 
troop levels in Iraq ''very much longer.''

By then, there were 2,000 Americans dead.

USA Today, January 4, 2006, the headline is: Bush, Cheney stump 
seeking public support. Bush met with military leaders at the Pentagon 
and reiterated previously announced plans to cut U.S. troop strength in 
Iraq. ''The adjustment is underway,'' he said, suggesting further cuts 
would come if Iraqi security forces improved.

By then, 2,200 Americans were dead.

USA Today March 26, 2006, the headline is, Rice speaks of possible 
troop drawdown. ''I think it is entirely probable that we will see a 
significant drawdown of American forces over the next year. It's all 
dependent on events on the ground,'' the chief American diplomat said.

By then, 2,300 Americans were dead.

The Washington Post, June 15, 2006, the headline is: Bush Sees 
Progress in Iraq. In a Rose Garden news conference just over 6 hours 
after his surprise whirlwind visit to Baghdad, Bush said, ''I sense 
something different happening in Iraq,'' and predicted that ''progress 
will be steady'' towards achieving the U.S. mission there.

By then, 2,500 Americans were dead.

USA Today, October 1, 2006, the headline: Bush Sees Progress in Iraq 
War Effort. President Bush said Saturday he is encouraged by the 
increasing size and capacity of the Iraq security forces, touting 
progress on a key measure for when U.S. troops can come home.

By then, 2,800 U.S. soldiers had died.

Fox News, Sunday, January 11, 2007, Chris Wallace interviewed the 
vice president:

Mr. Vice President, why should we believe you this time that you have 
it right?

Mr. Cheney responded, Well, if you look at what has transpired in 
Iraq, Chris, we have in fact made enormous progress.

By then, 3,000 Americans were dead.

In the months since the Vice President saw enormous progress, another 
600 U.S. soldiers had died in Iraq. Over 3,600 U.S. soldiers are dead, 
26,000 seriously wounded, and 40,000 will suffer with post-traumatic 
stress disorder, and the White House keeps telling the American people 
that we are making progress.

There is no credibility left whatsoever in the White House. None. The 
White House cannot whitewash the truth any longer. The American people 
are exasperated by a Commander in Chief who is blind to what is 
happening in Iraq.

U.S. soldiers have not failed, but this President has. U.S. 
commanders have not failed, but this administration has. The American 
people know it and they want only one new order given: Get U.S. 
soldiers out of Iraq. That means by early spring next year. It would be 
a travesty of justice if it takes until the general election of 2008 
for the American people to throw every Republican out in order to stop 
the war. We are 17 months away from a new President being sworn into 
office. That is another 2,000 U.S. casualties if we follow this 
President. Ten soldiers are dying every day. Ninety soldiers are 
gravely wounded every day. A hundred civilian Iraqis die. How many more 
must die before we stand up for our soldiers? Before we stand up for 
our national interests and get our soldiers out of Iraq? Bring them 
home.

Mr. Speaker, we have got to get the President to bring them home. We 
also ought to think about how many Iraqis have died in this whole 
thing.
