---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `d3c470e0aadfd8d0e5f214bb84d34b64`
`Mr. WARNER — 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I rise today to thank my colleagues, 
both in the House and Senate, for their tremendous bipartisan work on 
the fiscal year 2008 national defense authorization bill.

The Congress has passed the national defense authorization bill every 
year since 1959, and I have had the great privilege to have had a hand 
in this annual piece of legislation each of my 29 years in the Senate.

This bill accomplishes the following: supports our troops deployed in 
harm's way; bolsters the readiness of our Armed Forces; reforms the 
acquisition practices of the Department of Defense; addresses the 
problems in military medical care uncovered at Walter Reed and 
elsewhere; provides needed equipment to protect our deployed forces; 
and strengthens the quality of life of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, 
and marines, and their families.

To care for those who serve in uniform, their families, and retired 
veterans, this legislation authorizes $696.4 billion which includes the 
base budget for fiscal year 2008--$507 billion--and the President's 
emergency supplemental requests for Iraq, Afghanistan, and the global 
war on terrorism--$189 billion--made in February, July, and October.

It authorizes a 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise for all 
uniformed service personnel.

It continues the authorization to pay over 25 separate bonuses and 
special pay critical to successful recruiting and retention.

It authorizes fiscal year 2008 end strengths for the Army and Marine 
Corps of 525,400 and 189,000 respectively, which is an increase of 
13,000 for the Army and 9,000 for the Marine Corps.

It includes the Wounded Warrior Act, which will improve health care 
and benefits for recovering veterans, recovering servicemembers and 
their families, and begin the process of reform of the Department of 
Defense, DOD, and Department of Veterans Affairs, VA, disability 
evaluation systems.

It requires DOD and Veterans Affairs to jointly develop a 
comprehensive policy on improvements to care, management, and 
transition of recovering servicemembers in an outpatient status.

It authorizes payment of combat-related special compensation to 
servicemembers medically retired for a combat-related disability. 
Payment is equal to the amount of retired pay forfeited because of the 
prohibition on concurrent receipt of military retired pay and VA 
disability compensation.

It reduces below age 60 the age at which a member of a Reserve 
component may draw retirement pay by 3 months for every aggregate 90 
days' service on active duty under certain mobilization authorities.

It guarantees combat veterans mental health evaluations within 30 
days of their request.

It includes several provisions to continue to provide best quality 
health care to servicemembers and their families and provisions that 
would enhance the ability of the services to attract health care 
personnel.

It guarantees combat veterans mental health evaluations within 30 
days of their request.

To ensure that servicemembers serving in Iraq and Afghanistan are 
properly equipped, this legislation adds over $17 billion for mine 
resistant ambush protected--MRAP--vehicles that improve protection for 
our troops exposed to the improvised explosive device, IED, threat in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

It funds over $4 billion for the Joint Improvised Explosive Device 
Defeat Office, JIEDDO.

It authorizes funds to procure ammunition, modernize ammunition 
plants, and protect and enhance military training ranges.

To meet current and future threats to our country's national 
security, this bill requires the DOD to develop a competitive engine 
program for the Joint Strike Fighter and authorized $480 million for 
this purpose.

It authorizes more than $13 billion for Navy shipbuilding.

It provides mulltiyear procurement authority for fiscal years 2009 
through 2013 Virginia-class submarines, and adding $588 million in 
advance procurement funding to support buying an additional submarine 
in 2010.

It adds $51 million to the budget request to provide increased space 
situational awareness capabilities to address concerns raised as a 
result of the recent Chinese kinetic antisatellite weapons test.

It authorizes $220.4 billion to meet the operation and maintenance 
requirements of the services to support combat operations and improve 
the readiness of deploying and nondeploying forces.

To ensure for the effective oversight of Department of Defense 
contracts, contractors, and acquisition workforce, this legislation 
requires private security contractors operating on the battlefield in 
Iraq and Afghanistan to comply with DOD regulations and rules on the 
use of force, as well as orders and directives from combatant 
commanders regarding force protection, security, health, safety, and 
interaction with local nationals.



It establishes a Commission on Wartime Contracting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan to study and investigate Federal agency contracting for 
reconstruction, logistics support, and security functions in those 
countries, and make recommendations as to how contracting processes 
could be improved in the future.

It strengthens oversight of reconstruction activities in Afghanistan 
by establishing a Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
Reconstruction, modeled after the Special Inspector General for Iraq 
Reconstruction.

It includes the Acquisition Improvement and Accountability Act of 
2007, which would improve the management and oversight of DOD 
acquisition programs.

It strengthens statutory protections for contractor employees who 
blow the whistle on waste, fraud, and abuse on DOD contracts by 
providing, for the first time, a private right of action in Federal 
court for contractor employees who are subject to reprisal for their 
efforts to protect the taxpayers' interests.

To recognize the responsibilities and enhance the role of the 
National Guard, this legislation includes the National Guard 
Empowerment Act which authorizes promotion of the Chief of the National 
Guard Bureau to the rank of four-star general and recognizes the 
responsibilities and enhanced role of the National Guard.

Finally, to ensure the effective security and remediation of 
Department of Energy sites, this act supports enhanced security at 
Department of Energy, DOE, nuclear sites and the development of new 
technology to promote environmental cleanup of DOE sites.

Madam President, this important bill will maintain our readiness and 
support the military's transformation to meet the 21st century's 
threats. I urge my colleagues to support this crucial legislation.

Madam President, I direct persons to the committee report, the 
National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2008. On page 334 
there appears a provision, section 1079, entitled: ''Communications 
with the Committees On Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives.'' I will read a part of it to familiarize people:




 The Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, the 


 director of a national intelligence center, or the head of 


 any element of the intelligence community shall, not later 


 than 45 days after receiving a written request from the Chair 


 or ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed Services 


 of the Senate or the Committee on Armed Services of the House 


 of Representatives--


The Senate and the House provide certain information.

I worked with this provision at the time it was framed in our 
committee, and I want to say for the record that it was never intended, 
nor do I personally find any wording in this amendment, which would 
include the daily brief provided to the President of the United States. 
That is the exclusive property under executive privilege of the 
President.

Madam President, I wish to add on that list on the Wounded Warrior 
Senator Webb, who took a very active role in that.

Our respective leaders have asked us to keep this debate limited as 
best we can. I know of only one speaker on my side who is seeking 5 
minutes. I think our distinguished chairman covered the matter very 
carefully as he always does.

It has been a privilege for me to participate in the preparation of 
this conference report and to work on the other committee matters 
throughout the year. As the chairman said, Senator McCain is on a 
mission, a mission I happen to support strongly. I am happy to work 
with Senator Levin instead of Senator McCain. His chief of staff, 
seated next to me, Mike Kostiw, and I were in constant contact with 
him, and in every way Senator McCain had hands on in the affairs of the 
committee this year as ranking member in the preparation of this 
report.

Senator McCain and I have known each other ever since I was Secretary 
of the Navy. He was then in the prison camps. Shortly thereafter, when 
he joyously returned home to a nation that welcomed him with open 
heart, we have been friends ever since. It was quite logical for him to 
ask me to work in his stead. This is the 29th year Senator Levin and I 
have occupied these two chairs. Particularly the last 17 years, either 
I have been chairman or he has been chairman or ranking member of the 
committee. Our partnership is rather extraordinary. I anticipate he 
will maintain and continue that strong effort to make this committee 
what it is, nonpartisan in its function, in large measure, with Senator 
McCain after my departure a year hence.

Again, I salute my good friend for his leadership as chairman this 
year. He is always open to me and other members of the Republican side 
of the committee to entertain their views very fairly and objectively, 
thoroughly. And together with our superb professional staff, we have 
managed to put together a very commendable bill for the Senate and now 
this conference report for the whole of the Congress.

Having said that, I join in his recognition of Ike Skelton and Duncan 
Hunter, the two partners we have worked with for many years on the 
House side. This was his first year as chairman for Congressman 
Skelton. We worked in the final stages of the preparation of this bill, 
the four of us, on many key issues to resolve differences between the 
House and Senate. Ike Skelton is an extraordinary leader. He has been 
on that committee many years and has been about as long as we have in 
the Congress. We are fortunate to have his services, as we do the 
services of Senator Levin.

I yield the floor. The chairman may wish to recognize a speaker on 
his side. Then I will recognize a speaker on our side.