---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `d3d0390da8effae467218380e69a8eaa`
`Mr. KINGSTON — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, this is an important bill that we're 
debating today. In fact, it's a bill that has been kind of in the 
hopper, if you will, for months, and maybe even a year's time right 
now. This is a bill that the troops very badly need. And that's why 
it's odd to me that there are so many unrelated amendments to it.

I understand that when the Democrats took over, their promise to the 
MoveOn.org fringe of their party was that we are going to get the 
troops out of Iraq. They have not delivered on that. And so what we 
have here is a little fig leaf debate on getting out of Iraq so that 
their Get Out of Iraq Caucus can have a political cover story so that 
when they go home over the Memorial Day recess, they can tell people, 
yeah, I voted to get out Iraq. But the truth is, there is no delivery 
here.

That debate alone should be something that we do all day long. It 
should be at least a week's worth of our time, if not more, the debate 
on getting out of Iraq and imperiling troops in the way. But no, the 
Democrat Party will not give that to their group that wants the Get Out 
of Iraq Caucus. What they want is a little fig leaf amendment to a 
bill, which they know is going to pass and they're hoping that this is 
going to cover their politics. That is a sham, and that is a shame. I 
respect somebody who wants to get out of Iraq now, but they should have 
a debate on that on a freestanding bill. It should not be an amendment.

Secondly, I want to point out the stuff which Mr. Culberson referred 
to as pork. Mr. Obey took exception to that. And I'd say this stuff 
isn't pork, but it isn't an emergency. It isn't stuff you put on the 
backs of our troops in the field.

I don't know how much money we spent in New Orleans, I would like to 
know. I think we, as Republicans, spent too much. I think you guys, as 
Democrats, are spending too much. I understand there is $5.8 billion 
for levees in New Orleans. Now, Mr. Speaker, as I recall, that did not 
happen recently.