---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `d3d12ff04086979ceb7c032e0fdfa059`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN — 12 July 2007`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Arizona.

And while I have the utmost respect for the chairman, I disagree with 
him on this resolution and I do rise to oppose the resolution today.

I guess I don't like the rhetoric of defeat. And I think that if we 
look at the situation in Iraq and if we look at the global war on 
terror, we have to ask ourselves: If we accept defeat at the hands of 
the terrorists, then what type message are we going to send? And I 
don't think that we would like that. Because if we pull out now, it is 
going to say that the U.S. is weak in the war on terror. It is going to 
say that we accept roving death squads in the streets of Baghdad, that 
we accept ethnic cleansing and a region engulfed in all-out chaos. That 
is the message we send. Just as when we were children, our actions 
carry a message with them.

Our soldiers deserve the confidence of their leaders, and not second-
guessing by politicians that are a half world away. I think that they 
need to know that we are with them.

I had a message from a Marine parent. And they said, You know, we 
have our men out there fighting every day. They are using all the tools 
available to them. They are in combat. They are in patrols. They are 
using technology to stabilize, to train Iraqi troops. Then at night 
they come home, they come back to that post, that forward operating 
base, and they hammer out e-mails and blogs to those of us here to help 
combat the rhetoric coming out of Washington, DC.

General Petraeus, Ambassador Crocker have a plan, the Baghdad 
Security Plan. We find out now much of Baghdad is more secure than it 
was. Most of the troops to carry out this plan just landed, just got 
there 2 weeks ago to start implementing the plan. I think that for us 
to second-guess is inappropriate. I think that it may be the 
fashionable thing to want to pull out.