---
---

# None
## `d3d51b70014e2a7ef8f84fb47f5ac127`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 19 December 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you, so much, Mr. Meek and Mr. Ryan and 
Mr. Altmire.



Let me tell you something else that we are laying down our marker on. 
We are not going away. The obstructionist Republicans might think that 
they have our number and that they have been able to block the efforts 
of this Democratic majority in trying to move this country in a new 
direction, but they will be sadly mistaken as we gradually turn this 
ship of State around. It takes a long time to turn a cruise ship 
around, something that is the size of this government, and it takes a 
long time to undo the horrendous damage that was done to this country 
during the 12 years of Republican majority in this Congress.

We slowly have been peeling the film of the culture of corruption 
that hung over this Capitol before we took the majority back.



We have feverishly worked to move this country in a new direction to 
expand access to health care, to make sure that we put our domestic 
priorities on the front burner. Now, we might have done that within the 
President's number, and that's essentially not what we wanted to do. 
What we wanted to do is make sure we weren't spending 10 times more in 
Iraq to continue this war than we were to increase the funding for 
health care and for education and for veterans health care funding. 
That's why, within the President's overall budget number, we reordered 
our priorities. We made sure that instead of cutting NIH funding grants 
and cutting health care, that we increased funding for the NIH grants. 
We made sure that we provide access to health care instead of cutting 
it by $595 million, that we increased it so that we could expand access 
to health care to more people. We made sure that instead of cutting 
veterans health care benefits we passed still the largest single 
increase in the history of the VA, a $3.7 billion increase.

We have a Democratic stamp on this budget. We passed a budget that 
has our priorities, the American people's priorities, and refocuses 
attention on the domestic needs that we have in this country, and we 
will be back after this recess and make sure that we are going to focus 
on the needs of the American people.

I'll be happy to yield to my friend