# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `d3f236b99ea691744cfb9fb322ccfc2a`
`Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin — 4 August 2007`

---


Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Chairman, I rise today--as we consider 
the FY 2008 Defense Department Appropriations bill to speak about the 
need to ensure that every soldier returning from Iraq gets access to 
health care including mental health care servIces.

One of the most important things funded in the bill is the program to 
help the Defense Department deal with the rising number of soldiers 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan suffering from mental health 
conditions such as Post Traumatic Stress Disorder or PTSD.

As you know Mr. Chairman, PTSD is a chronic medical disorder that 
follows exposure to an overwhelming traumatic event. Its symptoms can 
include flashbacks, sleeplessness, restlessness, irritability. The 
majority of those with PTSD meet the diagnostic criteria for several 
psychiatric disorders, especially depression and substance abuse, and 
many also attempt suicide.

Our military personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan are constantly at risk 
for car bombs, suicide bombers, and improvised explosive devices. 
Combat imposes a psychological burden that affects all combatants, not 
only those who sustain physical wounds.

Yet, despite a renewed interest and focus on this problem by 
Congress, I am disturbed by recent reports about the use of 
administrative discharges to ''involuntary separate'' ''unfit'' 
soldiers in order to maintain ''good order and discipline'' among the 
ranks.

While this may seem quite normal, these reports indicate that these 
discharges may be pushing men and women out of the service for conduct 
that may be tied to undiagnosed or untreated post-traumatic stress 
disorder symptoms even as the Army's Surgeon General has stated that 
the ''army does not want PTSD treated as a discipline problem.''

PTSD and other mental health challenges often include complex 
behaviors which include difficulty controlling one's emotions and self-
medicating with alcohol, other medications, or illicit drugs in an 
attempt to return to ''normalcy.'' Without a thorough evaluation by 
trained professionals during this process, many soldiers suffering with 
PTSD may be discharged and cut off from needed healthcare, with deadly 
consequences.

This problem was brought to my attention recently and tragically 
through the case of a constituent who my office was working to help 
access VA health services which he thought he had earned through his 
sacrifice on the battlefield.

This constituent served his country in Iraq for 10 months only to 
come back to be discharged as a ''disciplinary problem'' even though he 
manifested many symptoms that would indicate PTSD.

Instead of helping him find the door to diagnosis and treatment, he 
was just plain shown the door. Besides losing access to DoD health 
services, the character of his discharge also unfortunately prevented 
him from receiving any of the VA health and mental health services that 
could have helped him which so many in Congress have fought to make 
available to returning service men and women.

The Army did eventually clarify his discharge so that my constituent 
could access VA health benefits. Unfortunately, this changee did not 
occur until after his problems had gone untreated for several more 
months and only a few weeks before he ultimately committed suicide.

However, why we would force our service men and women, who have 
fought the enemy on the battlefield, to fight the enemy of bureaucracy 
anew is beyond me, especially when medical professionals maintain that 
early intervention and treatment can make a difference for those with 
PTSD and other mental health conditions.

Sadly, the problem is much more widespread than one constituent. 
There are many who have noted the increasing use of the administrative 
discharge process to quickly discharge soldiers considered 
''disciplinary'' problems or ''unfit'' including pressure placed on 
unit commander to remove these soldiers rather than get them help.

Mr. Chairman, I intended to offer amendments to try and get the DOD 
leadership to address this issue with a renewed sense of urgency 
especially since the DOD's own Mental Health Task Force expressed 
''serious concerns'' about this problem.

The Task Force found a conflict between the haste to enforce 
discipline and the need to properly evaluate soldiers prior to a 
disciplinary discharge to ensure that reported misconduct is not a 
result of an untreated or undiagnosed mental health condition.

In June, that Task Force recommended that DOD change its policies to 
''Guarantee a Thorough Assessment of Behavioral Symptoms When 
Evaluating Combat Veterans for Administrative/Legal Dismissal from the 
Military'' including ''carefully assessing a soldier's history of 
exposure to conditions that could cause PTSD, or traumatic brain 
injury, or related diagnoses for those facing administrative or medical 
discharge.''

While my amendments would have been made in order under the open rule 
under which this bill will be considered, the Defense Subcommittee 
Chairman, Mr. Murtha, graciously offered to work with me on this issue 
as the bill moves forward, including conference report language. On 
that basis, I will not offer my amendments today.

In the word ofthe DOD's task force, ''the military also has a clear 
responsibility to restore to full level of function a service member 
damaged in the line of duty, and to be cognizant of and attentive to 
the psychological aftermath of deployment, manifested in hidden 
injuries of the brain and mind.''

We can and must do better for our soldiers.