---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `d3f94eae68b5c6889d579b48a78c23c4`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this important 
legislation, which makes emergency supplemental appropriations for 
Fiscal Year 2009. H.R. 2346 provides our troops what they need for 
their missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, provides appropriate 
Congressional oversight for our military and national security efforts, 
and ensures the continued safety and security of our citizens.

This bill contains $96.7 billion to support our efforts to fight in 
Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan and to protect against pandemic flu. As 
the representative of Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base, I'm pleased 
that this bill provides $3.2 billion for quality of life initiatives--
including funding for military child care centers, military hospitals 
and wounded warrior facilities. It includes an additional $500 per 
month for each soldier who has served involuntarily after their 
enlistment ended, recognizing the sacrifices that they have made in 
necessary service to our country.

The legislation supports the President's plan to end the war in Iraq 
and bring our soldiers home, and supports his efforts to refocus our 
efforts to root out terrorism in Afghanistan and Pakistan. It also 
contains an important provision to prevent the release of prisoners 
from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, into the United States and requires the 
President to submit a comprehensive plan regarding the proposed closing 
of the Guantanamo Bay facility to Congress before any action is taken.

As the representative of a rural district that has seen farmers lose 
contracts and put on the brink of foreclosure, I am pleased that this 
bill contains emergency funding to address the shortfall in farm loan 
programs. North Carolina and 46 other states have loan backlogs that 
today cannot be funded, and the $71.3 million in this bill will help 
keep our farmers in business and our nation's food supply secure.

Mr. Speaker, as we start to address the legacy of the failed policies 
of the past eight years and the deficit that we inherited, we must 
still invest in our priorities and ensure the safety and security of 
all Americans. This bill is the last time that we will address critical 
war funding needs outside of the regular budget process, and is a 
necessary step to providing a new direction for our military, our 
economy, and our nation. I will continue to work with my colleagues in 
Congress as well as the President and the Administration, to provide a 
new direction in Iraq and to meet the critical needs of the people of 
North Carolina's Second Congressional District.