---
---

# PROGRESS IN IRAQ
## `d3f936fc5a628dddb335a1c2b88bfcc0`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I thank my friend from South Carolina 
and also my friend from Arizona.

This is a very important question, and I thought it was a very 
compelling part of the testimony offered both by General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker yesterday. If I may approach this by going back to 
the colloquy between my two friends earlier, they put their finger on a 
very important point. Let me go even a little further back.

After 9/11/01, after we were attacked, one of the insights we had was 
there is a violent civil war, both theological and political, going on 
within the Muslim world between a small group of fanatics, violent 
jihadists and the rest of the Muslim world who are pretty much like the 
rest of all of us. They want to live better, freer, more opportunity-
filled lives for themselves and their children.

We went into Iraq to overthrow Saddam Hussein. We are there now to 
essentially help the Iraqis--and remember, Iraq is not just another 
country. It is one of the historic centers of the Arab world--to help 
this great country and its leaders and people to take hold of their own 
destiny and, in doing so, reject the extremists, the jihadists, the 
suicide bombers, and create for the Muslim world a different path to 
the future than the extremism and suicidal death and hatred and 
primitivism that al-Qaida, the current leadership of Iran, and others 
of that sort present to them.

Part of what the testimony yesterday, I think, from Ambassador 
Crocker and General Petraeus said is that thanks to the backing of the 
United States through the surge, the Iraqis are taking control of their 
destiny.

As my colleagues pointed out, the moderates are winning. They have 
al-Qaida on the run out of Al Anbar Province. The businesses are 
reopening. The children are going back to school. They have hopes of a 
better future.

One of our colleagues on the Armed Services Committee said to General 
Petraeus: What is going on here? I thought we were in Iraq to fight al-
Qaida. Now you are telling me we pretty much have beaten al-Qaida, we 
have them on the run, and now you are telling us we are there to fight 
Iran.

That question missed the point, the point my colleagues have made in 
their colloquy. The point is, we are there for an affirmative reason. 
We are there to help the Iraqis establish a self-governing, self-
defending moderate country, an antiterrorist country. We do have al-
Qaida on the run, but as the two witnesses made clear yesterday, Iran 
is not on the run. In fact, Iran is an expansionist, fanatic power not 
only working through these special groups in Iraq but through Hezbollah 
in Lebanon and through Hamas in the Palestinian areas. They were 
tremendous statements yesterday, very strong.

Ambassador Crocker:




 Iran continues to undermine the efforts of the Iraqi 


 Government to establish a stable, secure state.


This takes me--and then I will yield back to my colleagues--to what 
seemed to be the frustration of some of our colleagues on the committee 
yesterday. They were trying to get General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker to tell us again: We are going to get all our troops or most of 
our troops out by X date. Fortunately, General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker are not accountable to political calculus. They have been given 
the responsibility for this mission. They have American lives on the 
line. They have lost American lives.


The answer General Petraeus gave us is clearly the right one: I wish 
I could tell you how many brigades more I can pull out after July, but 
I can't until I see what conditions on the ground are. Maybe I can 
bring out some more, but maybe I can't. If I do it prematurely, we will 
run the risk of chaos and a loss of all we have gained in Iraq; 
frankly, a disrespect of the lives of Americans who have been lost 
there. Their families and loved ones always tell us: Don't let them to 
have died in vain. The No. 1 winner, if we pull out prematurely, would 
be Iran. They are all over Iraq. They have their hands in just about 
everything.

If we leave and chaos ensues, as Ambassador Crocker said yesterday:




 Iran has said publicly it will fill any vacuum in Iraq, and 


 extremist Shi'a militias would reassert themselves.


We cannot let that happen. I thank my colleague.