# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `d40410228a4cdcb6fe156f1ec08e4bd0`
`Mr. SESSIONS â€” 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Arizona for 
granting me this extra time. He is not required to do so.

I think we have had a problem and a difference of opinion for some 
time. Senator McCain has been quite open that he is concerned about the 
troop levels in Iraq not being sufficient. History may well record he 
is right on that regard, but our policy was different.

General Abizaid, the commander for that region, the Central Command, 
studied the area throughout his career. He was concerned about too many 
troops in Iraq from the beginning. General Casey came on after General 
Abizaid was CENTCOM commander and became the commander in Iraq. He was 
Vice Chief of Staff of the Army at that time, he was to be gone for 18 
months. He ended up being away from his family for 30 months, 2/1/2/ 
years, and he executed the policy as best he could.

He testified that in his view, he didn't want to ask for a single 
soldier more than he needed to do the job. I don't know what the 
tension is, but there was a constant tension between the need to have 
more soldiers and to not take over the entire effort in Iraq.

General Abizaid and General Casey made their recommendations. We 
followed them. That experience in Iraq, in my view, can only make him 
better as Chief of Staff.

He was Vice Chief of Staff, lead our forces for 30 months in Iraq, 
and now he will be Chief of Staff. He was born in an Army hospital. His 
father was killed in Vietnam. He served 37 years in the Army. His son 
is a member of the Army.

He should not bear the brunt of a difference of opinion about how we 
should have conducted the effort in Iraq. He gave his absolute best 
effort to it. He could not help but have learned a lot in the process. 
He will be a fine Chief of Staff.

Mr. President, my time is up. I yield the floor.