---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `d40e0d693c31d25b63bab1b4d552748a`
`Mr. REED — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to express my strong support for the 
United States policy in Iraq Resolution of 2007. I think it represents 
a sound policy and strategy that will help us achieve our objectives 
not only in Iraq but in the region, and not only in the region but 
across the globe.

Let me first begin by saying I have heard many of the opponents 
suggest this Senate has but one choice: either to cut off funding or to 
allow the President to continue to pursue any policy he feels is 
appropriate. That is a false choice, similar to the false choice the 
President presented to this Senate in 2002 and 2003. That choice was 
that we could either invade Iraq or step back and watch them morph into 
a much more serious threat. In fact, there were diplomatic options. 
There was the possibility of effectively using U.N. inspectors. So I 
don't think we should engage in discussions of false choices. We have 
the authority constitutionally to adopt policies, to shape what the 
President does, and that is the essence of this resolution.

Just today, the New York Times' Walter Dellinger and Christopher 
Schroeder wrote an op-ed piece which bears on this point. They say the 
Supreme Court has long recognized Congress's authority to set limits on 
the President's military power, as in 1799, when it accepted Congress's 
power to authorize the seizure of ships going to but not coming from 
French ports. Talk about micromanagement; that is micromanagement.

That is not what our Iraq resolution does. We are laying out policy 
objectives, a changed mission, which I think will enhance the ability 
of military forces in the United States to do their job and to protect 
our country.

The Dellinger piece goes on to say, ''More important, the legal 
advisers of presidents have themselves repeatedly recognized this 
congressional power. When former Chief Justice William Rehnquist was 
President Reagan's chief legal adviser in 1970, he flatly rejected the 
all-or-nothing claim.'' In Rehnquist's words, ''It is both utterly 
illogical and unsupported by precedent to think Congress may not 
delegate a lesser amount of authority to conduct military operations.''

That is essentially what we are talking about today. We are trying to 
redefine the mission so that it is consistent with the highest purposes 
of American national strategy. This mission would, first, recognize we 
have to protect our forces, giving the Commander in Chief broad 
discretion in protecting those forces; second, that we have an ongoing 
obligation to help train Iraqi security forces, which is absolutely 
critical; and, third, that we have the ongoing obligation to go after 
the terrorists wherever they may be. We did this in Somalia a few weeks 
ago when we had information of al-Qaida operatives. We had much 
cooperation on the ground and we went in there. That is the same option 
we must pursue in Iraq and every place else. These are the three 
missions that are most consistent and most important to our national 
strategy.

Also, this resolution begins a phased redeployment; not a rigid, 
inflexible timetable, but starting a date where we begin to pull out 
combat forces, leaving, of course, forces to carry on this mission of 
training Iraqi security forces, going after the terrorists, and 
protecting our own forces. Our goal, and it is strictly a goal, is that 
these combat brigades should be out of the country, we hope, by March 
of 2008.

This is a policy that I think will work, a policy that will be 
supported by the American people, and a policy that will encourage, I 
think, the political solution that is necessary. As everyone has noted, 
the answer to Iraq is not going to be achieved by military means. It 
will be achieved by political means. General Petraeus has said that. 
These are his words: ''There is no military solution to a problem like 
that in Iraq, to the insurgency of Iraq.''

We have to have, and this resolution calls for, the application of 
diplomatic power, support for the creation of functioning institutions 
in Iraq that can provide both the kind of political progress and 
economic progress these people demand, tangible signs that their 
Government will function. That is what we are encouraging and directing 
in this policy.

This policy makes sense and it is well within not only the obligation 
of this


Congress but the constitutional power of this Congress.

Mr. President, I request an additional 1 minute to be yielded from 
the time of the leader.