# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `d43414fbe64458f7e338db6fde8eb56a`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 10 July 2009`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. Madam Chair, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Chair, Members, on behalf of America's service men and women, 
our veterans, and their families, it is a privilege for me to present 
the Fiscal Year 2010 Military Construction/Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations bill.

I believe this bill and the work we have done since January of 2007 
is work that all of us, Democrats and Republicans alike, can be very 
proud of. In this time of war, we have continued our tradition of a 
bipartisan Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations 
bill, a bill that honors in a meaningful way the service and sacrifice 
of our service men and women, our veterans, and their families.

In the past 2/1/2/ years, along with the passage of this bill, the 
Congress will have increased veterans health care and benefits funding 
by 58 percent. That is unprecedented in the history of this country, 
and I believe our veterans and their families have earned every dime of 
that funding.

In addition, we have a new 21st-century GI Education bill. And, 
recently, President Obama signed into law a provision amending that 
bill that will provide a college scholarship to every child who has 
lost a mother or father in military service to our country since 
September 11, 2001.

In 2/1/2/ years, this Congress will have done a number of things on 
behalf of our veterans and troops, including adding 8,300 VA processors 
to reduce the


unconscionable backlog that veterans are having to stand in in order to 
receive their earned benefits.

We will have provided funding for an additional 115 VA community-
based outpatient clinics, and this bill adds 30 more. We will have 
provided an additional 42 vet centers, and this bill adds 28 more.

We have allowed the Veterans Health Administration to hire an 
additional 2,657 doctors, 11,509 nurses, and other critical additional 
staff. We will increase the travel reimbursement rate, the per-mileage 
reimbursement rate for veterans having to travel, in some cases, 
hundreds of miles to VA hospitals--which has not been increased since 
1979--we will increase that from 11 cents per mile to 41.5 cents per 
mile. To many in America, that extra 30 cents may not sound like much. 
To many of America's finest, our veterans, it's the difference between 
them being able to afford to drive to get the VA health care they need 
and deserve, or not.

Our increased funding for veterans in this bill and over the past 
2/1/2/ years means our veterans have better access to health care they 
need and deserve and have earned. It means improved access to health 
care for veterans in rural areas. And it means the opening of the doors 
of our VA hospitals and clinics to many middle- and low-income veterans 
that have not been allowed the opportunity that they've earned through 
their military service. Additionally, these resources ensure that our 
veterans will have shorter waiting times for doctor appointments.

We have also worked hard to make sure that our service men and women 
know that Congress deeply respects the sacrifices that they and the 
unsung heroes of America's defense--their families--have made each and 
every day to keep our Nation safe. We've heard time and again in 
testimony that the best support we can give our military when they're 
deployed overseas is the knowledge that their families are cared for 
here at home. We have listened to that voice and have tried to fund a 
number of key initiatives for our troops.

For example, in the past year, this subcommittee will have added $2.8 
billion for new military hospitals so that our service men and women 
know that their families will get the best possible health care in 
high-quality facilities while they are serving overseas. We've added $1 
billion for new child care centers to serve 20,000 additional military 
children, and $570 million in additional funding for barracks because 
Congress needs to show our volunteer forces from day one that we 
appreciate their decision to serve.

The Subcommittee for Military Construction and Veterans' Affairs did 
not accomplish this alone. There are several key leaders that worked 
tirelessly behind the scenes to support these efforts. I want to 
especially commend Speaker Pelosi, who promised over 3 years ago that 
if she became Speaker she would make supporting our veterans and their 
families one of Congress' highest priorities. Speaker Pelosi has kept 
that promise to those who have kept their promise to serve our Nation, 
and I salute her for that.

I want to salute Chairman Obey, another one of the unsung heroes in 
supporting America's veterans, our military, the service men and women, 
and their families. While Mr. Wamp and I, as ranking member and 
chairman of the subcommittee, have often been out front on this, 
Chairman Obey has provided the allocations, the unprecedented historic 
increased allocations for our subcommittee that has allowed us to 
accomplish many of the goals and achievements that I have mentioned in 
the last few minutes.

In particular, above all other things that he has done, I want to 
thank Chairman Obey for providing a green light and encouraging and 
supporting and facilitating a historic initiative in this bill, which 
is, for the first time ever we will provide forward funding for 
veterans health care funding. That would not have happened without Mr. 
Obey's support.

In addition, Chairman Spratt--not a member of our subcommittee, but 
the chairman of the House Budget Committee--has played a key role, 
along with Chairman Filner, the chairman of the Veterans' Affairs 
Committee.

And, finally, but absolutely not least, I want to thank my colleague, 
my friend, and the ranking member of this committee, Mr. Wamp of 
Tennessee. He has been a partner and a leader at every step of the way 
in supporting our troops and our veterans and their families. His 
commitment to our military and our veterans is deep, is genuine, and he 
puts it to work every day by working hard on their behalf. I want to 
thank him for his vital role in not only shaping this bill, but our 
bill last year as well.


Madam Chair, let me try to focus, rather than on a long list of 
numbers, on some of the major initiatives in this bill.

As I referenced, for the first time in history we provide an advanced 
appropriation for VA medical care. This will allow the VA to invest 
taxpayer dollars more efficiently and more effectively. And I want to 
thank Mr. Obey, Mr. Spratt, Mr. Wamp and Speaker Pelosi for making this 
possible. I want to salute America's veteran service organizations, 
leaders of our veterans organizations who have made this one of their 
highest priorities.

Second, we provide $450 million to build new troop housing for Army 
trainees, over 60,000 of whom are presently living in barracks that 
don't even meet minimum DOD standards. You know, 18- and 19-year-old 
military recruits don't have many lobbyists running around Capitol Hill 
on their behalf, but they deserve our Nation's respect and support for 
their decision to serve in the military.

Third, we provide $200 million for the Guard and Reserve Construction 
Initiative, recognizing the vital role these troops are playing in Iraq 
and Afghanistan and in our Nation's defense. And particularly, in 
addition to his other efforts, I want to thank Mr. Wamp for taking a 
leadership role on this Guard and Reserve Initiative.

Fourth, this bill begins a process of funding our operations in Iraq 
and Afghanistan through the regular appropriations process, and we 
include $1.4 billion for vital military construction to support our 
troops in Afghanistan.

Fifth, recognizing that the mental wounds of war can sometimes be as 
painful and long lasting as the physical wounds of war, we provide $4.6 
billion for the VA to continue its improvements in PTSD and mental 
health care for America's vets.

Six, this bill includes funding for the 1,200 new claims processors 
to reduce the backlog of veterans receiving the benefits they've 
earned.

Seven, this bill also continues to open up, as I referenced briefly, 
VA medical care to more middle- and low-income veterans, many of whom 
have been locked out since a cap was placed on income thresholds back 
in 2003.

Finally, and this is important, we want to ensure that the historic 
increases for VA health care and benefits, that those dollars are spent 
wisely. And I know Mr. Wamp and I share a strong commitment to this; we 
want to see that every dime of that is spent for the highest priority 
needs of our veterans, so together we supported increasing the VA 
Office of Inspector General by $19.2 million. And we have every 
intention, through our subcommittee, of exercising increased oversight 
of the VA to see that these tax dollars are spent effectively and 
efficiently.

Just a few basic numbers: overall, this bill totals $77.9 billion in 
discretionary funding for fiscal year 2010. This is $239 million above 
President Obama's request and $5 billion more than fiscal year 2009. 
The bill will include $48.2 billion in fiscal year 2011 advanced 
funding for VA medical services, medical support and compliance. and 
medical facilities, an 8.3 percent increase over the historic funding 
level of 2010.

In military construction, family housing, and BRAC, the bill provides 
$24.6 billion and fully funds BRAC 05 at $7.5 billion. For the VA in 
fiscal year 2010, the bill provides $53 billion in discretionary 
funding. This is $5.4 billion above the 2009 funding and matches 
President Obama's VA request, which I should point out was the largest 
increase requested by any President in over three decades. The fiscal 
year 2010 increase for the Veterans Health Administration is $4.4 
billion, which is 11 percent over fiscal year 2009.

Finally, I want to thank the people who work every day--in fact, day 
and night--behind the scenes without public applause for our veterans 
and our troops and their families. These are the people who make up the 
staff of the


Military Construction and VA Appropriations Subcommittee, and I want to 
thank them by name: the minority staff, led by Martin Delgado, Liz 
Dawson and Kelly Shea, and Erin Fogelman and Juan Alvarez from Mr. 
Wamp's staff. The majority staff: led by my subcommittee clerk Carol 
Murphy, Tim Peterson, Mary Arnold, Walter Hearne, and Donna Shahbaz, 
and Lindsey Davis on my staff.

I would also like to add a special thanks to John Conger, who has 
recently left my staff to work for the military as an employee of the 
Pentagon. All of these people have helped continue the long, proud 
tradition and legacy of this subcommittee to work on a bipartisan--
frankly, a nonpartisan--basis, always putting our troops and veterans 
first. And as I say that, I once again thank our ranking member for 
always fighting and putting first our troops and our veterans.


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH10JY09.001




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH10JY09.002




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH10JY09.003




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH10JY09.004




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH10JY09.005





With that, I reserve the balance of my time.