# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `d440d6f6034193fae9358d266cc9a8a7`
`Mr. WEINER â€” 8 July 2009`

---


Mr. WEINER. Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of language in the 
manager's amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill (H.R. 2647) 
requiring the Government Accountability Office to study the costs to 
states and localities that choose to cover the difference between a 
first responder's military salary and their city salary.

After the tragic events of September 11th, many New Yorkers heard the 
call to service and joined the Army, Marines, Navy, and Air Force in 
defense of their country. More than 11,000 New Yorkers went to Iraq and 
Afghanistan and 59 tragically lost their lives in defense of our 
country. Among these New Yorkers were the brave first responders who 
had already performed so admirably on that day, the police officers, 
fire fighters, and paramedics who put their lives at risk to help their 
fellow New Yorkers. In recognition of this further sacrifice, New York 
City revised its personnel code to maintain first responders' municipal 
salaries even during active duty military service.

Five hundred ten New York City municipal employees, including 76 
firefighters and 293 police officers, are currently serving overseas, 
putting the total number of City first responders who have served in 
Iraq and Afghanistan since 9/11 at over 2,000, with New York Police 
Department Officers comprising close to half of these. The combined 
salaries of these employees is over $ 148 million dollars, and it is 
estimated that the city has recouped only $59 million, costing the City 
over $89 million. These financial costs are further compounded by lost 
man hours, over 800,000 in all. This lost manpower has 
disproportionately affected the New York City Police Department to the 
tune of over 472,000 days.

To explain this program better, let's take the hypothetical case of 
NYPD and Army Reserve Sergeant Smith. Sergeant Smith makes $55,000 
annually as an NYPD officer and his active duty salary is $35,000. 
Being called to Iraq for a year-long tour of duty costs Sergeant Smith 
$20,000. New York City's program continues Sergeant Smith's $55,000 
annual salary and Sergeant Smith would pay his military salary back to 
the City. Through New York City's policy, Sergeant Smith is made whole 
while still patriotically serving his country.

New York City is not alone in honoring its first responders who 
choose to serve overseas in this way. Boston, Chicago, Indianapolis, 
Phoenix, and San Jose have similar programs, and many states, including 
Ohio, Texas, North Carolina, Wisconsin, and Washington have laws that 
provide full pay for all state and municipal employees serving on 
active duty. At this time, it is not known how many millions of dollars 
these programs are costing cities and states around the country. 
Through my amendment the GAO will study the costs incurred by local 
governments for picking up the costs for their employees serving on 
active duty. I would like to thank Chairman Ike Skelton and Ranking 
Member Buck McKeon for accepting this amendment.
