# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `d442926dfe5f412120975946f34b4785`
`Mr. KYL — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Madam President, there is an old joke about the definition 
of retreat, which is a strategic withdrawal. I note that is the phrase 
used in the resolution, S.J. Res. 9, to describe the process of leaving 
Iraq. The language effectively is: ''The President shall commence the 
phased redeployment of United States forces from Iraq not later than 
120 days,'' and then says:



 . . . with the goal of redeploying by March 31, 2008, all the 


 United States combat forces from Iraq. . . .


Except for the limited purposes of protecting forces, training Iraqi 
forces, and conducting targeted counterterrorism operations.

That is a very bad idea. We shouldn't be playing politics with this 
war, and we shouldn't be trying to micromanage the war from Congress. 
But setting specific dates by which the commanders are to make certain 
decisions, including how troops are deployed, is clearly micromanaging 
the war effort.

The fact there have been 17 resolutions--I believe this is the 17th 
resolution--on the Democratic side of the Congress, and the fact that 
none of those other 16 were adopted I think demonstrates the confusion 
on the other side as to what exactly ought to be done and the 
differences of opinion by Members on the other side of the aisle.

Thank goodness we didn't adopt any of the other 16, and we shouldn't 
adopt this one either. This one is particularly pernicious. It actually 
begins the withdrawal. It sets a date, ''shall commence the 
phased redeployment . . . not later than 120 days.


Then it uses a goal of completing that withdrawal by March 31, 2008. 
Some have tried to hide behind the word ''goal.'' I think Senator 
Feingold said it right, however, on March 8 of this year when he said:




 For the first time, it--


''It'' meaning the resolution--



 has a timetable in place, as I called for in August of 2005. 


 It's not as early as I would like, but is a timetable not 


 only to begin to get the troops out but to get the troops out 


 except for very limited purposes.


It didn't always used to be this way. A lot of our Democratic 
colleagues understood that setting timetables and deadlines was 
absolutely the wrong thing to do.

The distinguished majority leader, for example, said:




 But as far as setting a timeline, as we learned in the 


 Balkans, that's not a wise decision, because it only empowers 


 those who don't want us there, and it doesn't work well to do 


 that.


Another one of the supporters of the resolution said 2 days ago:




 I don't believe it's smart to set a date for withdrawal. I 


 don't think you should ever telegraph your intentions to the 


 enemy so they can await you.


Another cosponsor of the resolution said 3 days ago:




 I, for example, am not in support of circling a date on a 


 calendar and saying, ''No matter what, we're out on that 


 date.''


One of the most thoughtful people in the Senate on matters of foreign 
policy has spoken a lot on this issue, and I think what he said a 
couple of years ago makes a lot of sense. This is the distinguished 
chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. He was talking about the 
options. He said:



 . . . we call it quits and withdraw, I think that would be a 


 gigantic mistake for the reasons I stated earlier. Or we can 


 set a deadline for pulling out, which I fear will only 


 encourage our enemies to wait us out, equally a mistake. . . 


 . I mean, the idea of setting a timetable to leave generally 


 means that you have to set and train the process of leaving. 


 It is not an easy process. And I think once that is smelled 


 as the option, then I think you find it will degenerate 


 quickly into sectarian violence, every man for himself. And 


 the conclusion that will be achieved will be, I think, 


 Lebanon in 1985, and God knows where it goes from there.


Recently, the distinguished chairman said this, unfortunately:




 We should withdraw our combat troops by early 2008, except 


 for a limited number necessary to keep training Iraqis and to 


 deny terrorists a sanctuary.


As I said, it used to be that most Senators understood that setting a 
timetable in a war, a date for withdrawal was a very bad idea, not just 
because it tried to micromanage the conduct of the war from the 
Congress but because it signaled to the enemy precisely what the enemy 
had to do, to wait us out and then prevail in the conflict.

That is precisely what this resolution does and is the key reason why 
every Senator should be voting against this resolution and why those 
who spoke against a timetable before should remember what they said and 
the wisdom of those words and follow that same advice today.

This is especially pernicious because at the very time this 
resolution is being adopted, there continues to be news from Iraq that 
suggests the new strategy, the Petraeus plan, is actually beginning to 
work. Nobody is claiming any victory. There are going to be bad days as 
well as good.

I ask unanimous consent at the close of my remarks to print in the 
Record an article from the Associated Press in my hometown newspaper: 
''Baghdad's terror death counts are falling.''