---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `d44b77050e301804cb63a44f4cd46e1b`
`Mr. DICKS — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. DICKS. Mr. Speaker, I want to rise to commend my colleagues, Mr. 
Obey and Mr. Murtha, for the excellent work on the supplemental 
appropriations bill that they have brought to the House floor. The 
House leadership has worked hard to put together the votes to pass this 
legislation.

This bill funds the troops. We have given them extra funds to deal 
with the critical issues of traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic 
stress disorder. We need to clean up the mess at Walter Reed and the 
other hospitals around the country, including the VA hospitals. There 
is money in this bill to provide extra staff, nurses and to clean up 
these facilities.

It is critical that we put pressure on the Iraqi Government to end 
the civil war. The Maliki government must get the message that the 
American people do not have unlimited patience. General Petraeus has 
said that we cannot end this war with only a military solution. We need 
the Iraqis to resolve the conflict amongst themselves. We need them to 
fix their Constitution, pass necessary oil legislation, and end the 
sectarian violence. The benchmarks in this bill will help them to 
accomplish these objectives.

I hope that General Petraeus is successful in reducing the violence 
in Baghdad and the surrounding area. I hope that U.S. forces embedded 
with Iraqi forces can stop the sectarian killing. Without political 
reconciliation, we cannot stop the sectarian violence and the al Qaeda-
led terrorist attacks. We also need an economic recovery program across 
Iraq to create badly needed jobs.

This bill sets a timetable. It puts pressure on the Maliki 
government, and I think it is the right bill at the right time to 
change our Iraq policy and to bring the troops home in a reasonable 
period of time.

I hope we can stabilize Iraq, but we can only do it with the effort 
of the Iraqi Government and their people.









[From the New York Times, Mar. 22, 2007]












Congress's Challenge on Iraq




 The House of Representatives now has a chance to lead the 


 nation toward a wiser, more responsible Iraq policy. It is 


 scheduled to vote this week on whether to impose benchmarks 


 for much-needed political progress on the Iraqi government--


 and link them to the continued presence of American combat 


 forces. The bill also seeks to lessen the intolerable strains 


 on American forces, requiring President Bush to certify that 


 units are fit for battle before sending any troops to Iraq. 


 Both of these requirements are long overdue. The House should 


 vote yes, by an overwhelming, bipartisan margin.



 It is normally the president who provides the leadership 


 for American foreign policy and decides when there needs to 


 be a change of course. But Mr. Bush stubbornly refuses to do 


 either, and the country cannot afford to wait out the rest of 


 his term. Given Mr. Bush's failure, Congress has a 


 responsibility to do all it can to use Washington's remaining 


 leverage to try to lessen the chaos that will likely follow 


 an American withdrawal--no matter when it happens--and to 


 ensure that the credibility and readiness of the United 


 States military is preserved.



 House Democrats have wisely moved beyond their earlier 


 infatuation with mere deadlines. The benchmarks spelled out 


 in this legislation, which also provides the next round of 


 money for the war, require that the Iraqi government stop 


 shielding and encouraging the Shiite militias that are 


 helping drive the killing. United States and Iraqi security 


 forces must be allowed to pursue all extremists, Shiite and 


 Sunni, disarm sectarian militias and provide ''evenhanded 


 security for all Iraqis.''



 The benchmarks also require the Iraqi government to take 


 measurable steps toward national reconciliation: equitably 


 distributing oil revenues, opening up more political and 


 economic opportunities to the Sunni minority and amending the 


 constitution to discourage further fragmentation.



 The legislation does not settle for more empty promises--


 from Mr. Bush and the Iraqis. It would require the president 


 to provide Congress, by July, with an initial detailed report 


 on Iraq's efforts to meet these benchmarks. By October, the 


 Iraqi government would have to complete a specific set of 


 legislative and constitutional steps. Failure to meet these 


 deadlines would trigger the withdrawal of all American combat 


 forces--but not those training Iraqis or fighting Al Qaeda--


 to be concluded in April 2008. If the benchmarks were met, 


 American combat forces would remain until the fall of 2008.



 The measure would also bar sending any unit to Iraq that 


 cannot be certified as fully ready. It sets a reasonable 365-


 day limit on combat tours for the Army and a shorter 210-day 


 combat tour limit for the Marines. As for how many troops can 


 remain in Iraq--until the House's deadlines for withdrawal--


 the legislation imposes no reduction on the level of roughly 


 132,000 in place at the start of this year.



 Critics will complain that the House is doing the 


 Pentagon's planning. But the Pentagon and Mr. Bush have 


 clearly failed to protect America's ground forces from the 


 ever more costly effects of extended, accelerated and 


 repeated deployments.



 If Iraq's leaders were truly committed to national 


 reconciliation and reining in their civil war, there would be 


 no need for benchmarks or deadlines. But they are not. If Mr. 


 Bush were willing to grasp Iraq's horrifying reality, he 


 would be the one imposing benchmarks, timetables and 


 readiness rules. He will not, so Congress must. American 


 troops should not be trapped in the middle of a blood bath 


 that neither Mr. Bush nor Iraq's leaders have the vision or 


 the will to halt.