# PROCEDURAL TACTICS
## `d458e43d4584e3eba50629c179dbef7a`
`Mr. REED â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, we have come to a critical crossroads with 
respect to our operations in Iraq. After the Iraq Study Group spent 
months considering the issue of the best policy going forward, 
suggesting a phased redeployment along with other measures, diplomatic 
measures that would enhance the security of the United States and 
protect our soldiers there in Iraq, the President had the opportunity 
to accept those recommendations. It was a bipartisan panel of eminent 
Americans--James Baker and Lee Hamilton and so many others. The 
President specifically rejected them, not just in substance but in 
tone. In his speech a few weeks ago, he declared that he had learned 
very little from the Iraq Study Group, that he was not committed to a 
phased redeployment, he was committed to an escalation of approximately 
20,000 troops and a change in tactics in Baghdad.

I think he had the opportunity at that moment to do several things. 
First, he could have accepted the wisdom of the Iraq Study Group. But, 
more important, he could have communicated to the American public that 
his policy was based on the reality in Iraq, that he had learned from a 
series of mistakes he and his administration had made, and that he 
could have sustained a way forward in Iraq. He didn't do that, and I 
think the American people reacted as they should have reacted, with 
declining confidence in his leadership and, frankly, posing the 
fundamental question of, How does one sustain any policy when 70 
percent of the U.S. population considers it to be erroneous and not in 
the best interests of this country going forward? I believe the 
President squandered the last opportunity he had to rally people behind 
his policy.

Now we are in the midst of a debate, we hope, about that policy. We 
are being stymied in terms of bringing this to the floor in a clear and 
clarion vote that tells the American people where we stand as 
individual Senators with respect to the President's plan for 
escalation. We are being frustrated in the sense that there is an 
attempt to present other issues and not the issue of the moment, the 
issue under debate. There is no debate about our support for American 
soldiers around the globe and marines and sailors and airmen and 
airwomen. We support them. We think their mission should be changed to 
protect them and to advance the interests of our country, but there is 
no stinting in our support of these valiant young Americans.

The issue which divides this Senate and the issue which captures the 
feelings and the passions of the American public is whether we will 
stand in approval or disapproval of the President's proposal to 
escalate forces in Iraq. I believe that vote should come. That vote 
should be clear. The vote should stand by itself, not shrouded by other 
measures that are designed not to address the concerns of American 
people but simply to give the President additional cover.

What has happened since the last 3-plus years, from the invasion of 
Iraq--indeed, preceding the invasion of Iraq, in this Senate, under the 
control of the Republicans, has not done a good job at all of 
oversight, of investigation, of asking critical questions. Where was 
the Republican leadership, in the fall of 2002 and early 2003, when 
they should have been asking a simple question: What if we win the 
conventional battle? What about the occupation? Where is the plan? 
Where are the resources? How many Americans will it take to secure a 
large country with a population of about 26 million people, with a 
history of intersectarian tensions, with a history of a colonial past 
under the British that has established, some would say artificially, 
the boundaries of this nation? Those questions were not asked seriously 
and consistently and, as a result, this administration made huge 
mistakes when it came to the issue of how to successfully translate a 
conventional victory against the Iraqi military forces into a 
successful transition to a stable country. Now we see Iraq enthralled 
in doubt and violence that seems to be unable to be quenched. Our 
American forces are in the middle of that.

It is interesting, when we come to this point, to look seriously at 
the National Intelligence Estimate. One of the grave deficiencies we 
recognize today--some of us recognized it in October of 2002--is that 
the intelligence being used to sell this operation was flawed. Now I 
think we have a much more precise and carefully adjusted view of what 
is happening in Iraq today.

If you look at the NIE, it presents to us some profound 
contradictions.

First, and I agree with this assessment, is that the violence today 
is principally the result of sectarian conflict. The accelerators that 
raise the tempo of this violence can be found in the insurgent groups, 
al-Qaida in Iraq, some of these Shia militias, but the underlying 
battles today are between sectarian groups. The NIE describes this as a 
winner-take-all approach, as an existential battle between Shias--who 
feel a sense of insecurity given the history, particularly the last 
decade, of total oppression by a Sunni minority--and Sunnis, who feel a 
sense of entitlement that is going to be frustrated by the new, 
emerging order in Iraq. These existential battles, as the NIE 
indicates, are in a sense self-sustaining.

But here is where the confusion, the conflict, the contradiction 
comes


about. Most of the remedies we are all talking about involve 
reconciliation--political sectarian reconciliation. The issue--and one 
which will be decided in the next months and weeks in Iraq--is, can any 
existential conflict ever be reconciled? Has this conflict reached a 
point where it is truly self-sustaining and our forces in the middle of 
it are unable to be a moderating force at all?

My view and the view of so many others is that when you look at this 
situation on the ground and you consider what can be done, the decisive 
actions must be those of the Iraqi Government. They are political 
actions; that the presence of our military forces is important but not 
decisive. Certainly the size of our military forces is probably not as 
decisive as actions that must be undertaken by the Maliki government 
reining in the militias, truly trying to reach out beyond this huge 
sectarian chasm for reconciliation. These political, economic, and 
social decisions are not going to be made simply because we have 
increased our presence in Baghdad by 20 percent or we have changed the 
tactics.


Another aspect of this debate is the concentration, almost 
exclusively, on the military aspects of the President's plan. That, 
frankly, has been one of the great shortcomings and faults of the 
administration--and of this and previous Congresses, I should say--in 
terms of our approach in Iraq. Any military commander on the ground 
will tell you that they are buying time and that time has to be used 
for economic progress and political progress. The component in the 
President's plan that I heard stresses an increase of 20,000 soldiers, 
but where is the progress in terms of not only Iraqi decisionmakers 
making tough decisions but American advisers--State Department 
officials, USAID officials, Justice Department officials--going over 
there to help start the other side, the other part of the process, the 
economic progress, the social progress, the political mentoring? That 
has never been the case. As a result, our strategy has failed 
consistently.

Unless this plan has complementary and reinforcing elements--
military, political, and economic--it, too, will fail. I do not see, 
frankly, the complementary political and economic support necessary to 
carry off this plan.

What we have is 20,000 troops. If you look at the doctrine--and it is 
interesting because General Petraeus, the designated commander, is one 
of the principal authors of this new doctrine--that doctrine today 
would call for 120,000 troops in Baghdad based upon the size in 
Baghdad. We are sending an additional 20,000, which means our presence, 
American presence, is about 30,000 troops. The Iraqis have committed to 
roughly 55,000 troops, which brings us to a total of 85,000, but that 
still is roughly 35,000 troops short of the doctrine.

In addition, I don't think anyone considers that the Iraqi forces can 
truly muster 55,000 effective troops. We have already seen the reports 
come in that brigades, Iraqi brigades, are showing up at 50 percent 
strength, and of those, one has to ask seriously how many are effective 
fighters. Where are the shortcomings? If it is half a brigade and they 
are all privates and corporals, that is not an effective fighting 
force, or if it is half a fighting brigade and they are all majors and 
lieutenant colonels, that is not an effective fighting force. So we are 
seeing a situation, even in military terms, where this surge is 
probably lacking significantly in terms of the size of the force.

In addition, we all understand that there is a divided command. One 
of the key issues in any military operation is unity of command. There 
is an Iraqi commander who is selected probably for his political 
reliability more than his tactical or technical skill. There is also a 
situation in that our new tactics require significantly more enablers. 
These enablers are the translators, the civil affairs officers, the 
combat service support officers to supply these outposts now in each 
neighborhood. In fact, the Government Accountability Office has done a 
report indicating that if a 21,000 increment is made, it might turn out 
to be closer to 50,000 if you truly have all the support troops you 
need to get the job done.

There are so many shortcomings in just the political and military 
aspects of this plan. So I believe, again, this is an opportunity, a 
moment we have to address this plan, this proposal of the President's, 
in a very serious way and take a stand on it one way or the other. I 
hope we can do that. I hope we can do that in the intervening days, 
certainly before the end of this month, or the end of, I hope, this 
week.


Now, I think there are other aspects that are important to consider 
when we talk about the situation as we go forward. I will go back to 
the point I think hindered us consistently throughout our operations in 
Iraq, and that is despite the extraordinary valor and technical skill 
of our military forces, they have never been truly complemented by non-
Department of Defense personnel, by the State Department officials, by 
the Agriculture officials. I can recall visiting Fallujah twice in the 
middle of Anbar Province. Those marines are doing a magnificent job 
along with many Army units that are there. There is one State 
Department official in Fallujah who is charged with mentoring, with 
advice, with reconstruction, with all of these things. That is not 
adequate, and I don't see any indication in the President's proposal 
that is going to change. This is all about, again, trying to take a 
military solution to what is a complicated military, political, and 
economic problem. It hasn't worked for 3 years, it is not likely to 
work, and I think we have to take a stand on that proposal.

One of the other consequences I think that is ensuing from this focus 
on a purely military approach is we are losing out in terms of 
diplomatic leverage in the region. Just this week, the Saudis are 
meeting with delegates from Hamas and Fatah and the Palestinian 
Authority because the American leadership has been so lacking. We have 
to, I think, have a diplomatic policy to complement anything we do 
within Iraq. We haven't done that and it does not appear to be part of 
the President's agenda.

We have a situation which is grievous and which I think requires 
something more than simply more of the same, and that is just about 
what the President is offering. This is not a brand new diplomatic 
initiative; this is not a large-scale economic push to complement 
military action; this is a modest increase of forces, although I think 
this increase is not justified, together with new tactics in Baghdad. 
But again, I don't think that is going to be sufficient action. We have 
to start looking beyond the next several weeks and down the next 
several months and, indeed, the next several years.

The strategy that I think is inevitable is a phased redeployment of 
our forces and renewed diplomatic activity. It represents a focus on 
missions that are more central to the defense of the United States. The 
first is continue to aggressively go after those international 
terrorists, the al-Qaida units. We have done that. We continue, as the 
military indicates, to obtrude them very successfully. In fact, there 
are similarities of that mission to the recently conducted operations 
in Somalia where we sent in aircraft with some liaison from local 
Ethiopian forces on the ground to go out and take out identified 
terrorists there. That mission should continue in Iraq and frankly in 
Somalia and many other places where we can identify and find 
international terrorists.

Second, we have a continuing obligation, I think, to strengthen the 
Iraqi security forces. Ultimately it is their battle. We have made some 
progress with the Army, but we have to make more progress. That is a 
mission we should undertake and continue.

Third, there is the obligation, I think, to maintain the territorial 
integrity of Iraq, to make sure the locals do not take advantage of 
what is a tumultuous situation within Iraq. That, too, I think, is a 
valid mission, and it can be performed much differently than we are 
proposing to conduct this mission in Baghdad, by redeploying forces 
within Iraq. In fact, it was interesting yesterday before the Armed 
Services Committee when Secretary Gates was asked, and I think it was 
by Senator Warner: Is this the last chance? If this fails, then all is 
lost? I think he quite authoritatively and thoughtfully said: No, of 
course, we have to have contingencies. Of course, there are other 
approaches we can take. Of course, there are other missions that can be 
assigned.

One of the dangers and one of the persistent aspects of the 
President's


rhetoric has been always summoning up the false dichotomy. Recall, back 
in October 2002, what was the choice the President proposed? Invade 
Iraq or do nothing and let Saddam and the terrorists win. We recall the 
rhetoric. It seems hollow now when we think back to it. What was left 
out of the equation, of course, was what was already being done: 
international inspectors of the United Nations on the ground in Iraq 
looking for weapons of mass destruction, supposedly the source of our 
great conflict with the Iraq regime.

There are other things that could have been done, too, much short of 
an invasion. There were, in fact, reports of terrorist activities. 
Zarqawi was in the Kurdish region. What would have prevented the United 
States from launching a very discrete military operation against 
Zarqawi in the fall of 2002 in the Kurdish area, an area we were 
helping to protect by our overflights of aircraft? Nothing, except, I 
believe, the administration didn't want to give up a good rhetorical 
device: this supposed terrorist presence in a part of Iraq that Saddam 
did not control.

Again, here now, it is back to the false choices: Surge 20,000 troops 
or watch the country collapse as we leave precipitously next week. That 
is not the choice. The choice is missions that are more effectively 
aligned with our national security interests: going after terrorists, 
training Iraqi security forces, protecting the territorial integrity of 
Iraq, complemented with active diplomatic actions, complemented with, 
we hope, progress by the Iraqis themselves in political decisionmaking. 
That, I think, is the way to go.

We have, again, I think a very difficult situation before us. It 
requires not only debate, but I think it requires at this moment a 
decision by the Senate on a very simple proposal: where we stand with 
respect to the President's proposal for escalation. Now, others have 
come to the floor and pointed out past statements that have been made 
with respect to increasing American forces. I have been open to these 
arguments. Frankly, at this juncture I don't feel persuaded. In the 
past, when someone had asked me: Would you increase the size of forces 
in Iraq, certainly in those first few days after the invasion, and 
after July of 2003 when I visited Iraq and found there were thousands 
of weapons dumps that were not being protected, I came back here and I 
think, along with Senator Hagel, was one of the first to call for an 
increased size of our Army so we could deploy more forces to Iraq. But 
that window has closed very dramatically and nothing, frankly, was done 
by the administration to respond to those concerns.


I have said publicly that if a commander in the field came to me and 
said: We need additional forces, I would look at that proposal very 
carefully. In fact, in a press conference I was asked:




 So in no way would you be on board with the McCain plan to 


 surge in with, you know, 50,000 strong additional forces on 


 the ground, you would not be in favor of that?


My response:




 I think I responded to the question before, that if the 


 military commanders in Iraq said we need for X number of 


 months 20 plus, 25,000 troops to do this mission and within 


 reasonable certainty was assessed, I would have to listen to 


 that proposal, sir.


Well, I have listened to that proposal and I find it wanting. I find 
it wanting, based on the doctrine of the U.S. Army as it has evolved 
today. I find it wanting because of the lack of complementary and 
civilian support for that proposal. I find it wanting because of the 
lack of any serious indication that the Government of Iraq will make 
those tough political decisions. So I have considered it as I said I 
would, but I don't think it is the right way to proceed. Not at all.

Now, I am not alone, and I don't think it would be a shock to anyone 
to suggest this issue of escalation has prompted criticism from a wide 
group of individuals. GEN Colin L. Powell, former Secretary of State, 
said in December:




 I am not persuaded that another surge of troops into 


 Baghdad for the purposes of suppressing this sectarian 


 violence, this civil war, will work.


Again, I think General Powell's insights and experience are very 
critical at this moment.

The Joint Chiefs indicated, at least as reported in the Washington 
Post in December, using anonymous White House sources, that they were 
opposed, that White House officials are aggressively promoting the 
concept over the unanimous disagreement of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
That is in December.

Time Magazine reported that General Abizaid said he opposes more 
troops because it would discourage Iraqis from taking responsibility 
for their own security. Here is a general, an officer who has served 
for decades, the most knowledgeable individual when it comes to Middle 
East military-political issues within the United States Army, within 
the Department of Defense, and that is his opinion.

Robert Gates--before he became Secretary of Defense, or before he was 
confirmed, according to two administration officials asking not to be 
named--Robert Gates expressed his skepticism about a troop surge in 
Iraq on his first day on the job--excuse me; he was Secretary of 
Defense--at a Pentagon meeting overseeing the Air Force, Army, Navy, 
and Marines.

We are not alone. There have been some perhaps eleventh-hour 
conversions for this surge, but I think there are a number of 
individuals with significant experience and insight, unquestioned 
patriots, who question this proposal.
