---
---

# None
## `d45979ede223769c734fd6e2a1dde7cb`
`Mrs. BACHMANN — 28 May 2010`

---


Mrs. BACHMANN. I thank the gentleman from Texas, and I thank him for 
his statements in reviewing some of ''the week that was.''

That's really the theme of this hour that we have. We are talking 
about some of the events that have happened, a kind of ''week in 
review,'' if you will, of the events of this week. I'm sure the 
gentleman will want to comment on some of these things as we go on, but 
we need to go through items that are very crucial and critical, not 
only to the future of the Nation but to what has happened, in 
particular, this week. We saw this week that our country took a very 
historic line and broke it, and it was this:

We broke the $13 trillion mark in debt for this country. This is real 
money, and all we have to do is know the comparison. Think of dollars 
in terms of time. A million seconds equals 11/1/2/ days. A billion 
seconds equals 32 years. A trillion seconds equals 32,000 years.


Then think of that in terms of money and what debt will mean for the 
new generation that is coming up. All of us are a part of the debt-
paying generation. All of us have to pay for this out-of-control 
spending, but it is in particular those who are born today, who are 
between the ages of 5 and 30, who are now the debt-paying generation. 
Just with the stimulus bill alone, $787 billion, which we didn't have, 
we had to go and borrow it from foreign countries in order to spend 
that money. With debt service, that bill will cost us over $1 trillion. 
This is the cost of that bill to the debt-paying generation.

Those who are between the ages of 5 and 30 will spend, presumably, 45 
years in the workforce. For every month the debt-paying generation is 
in the workforce, one will effectively have to go out and buy a full-
sized iPod and give it over to the Federal Government. The next month, 
one will have to go out and buy another full-sized iPod and give it 
over to the Federal Government. That is the real cost for the debt-
paying generation's lives, those who are between the ages of 5 and 30. 
For 45 years, they will have to effectively buy the price of a full-
sized iPod for their portion of paying off just that one debt 
obligation that has been accrued by this body.

This week, we broke the $13 trillion mark. No one's hands are clean 
on this deal. Republicans spent too much money. This red line on the 
chart shows the excess debt that was accrued under Republican 
leadership. This blue line shows the excess debt that was accrued under 
Democrat leadership. It's by a 2:1 ratio, so it's both parties that 
have been part of the problem. Yet, under the recent leadership of the 
Democrat Party, we have seen literally debt fall off a cliff of fiscal 
sanity.

I have another figure that came out this week as well that I'd like 
to share, and it's on who is getting paid and on what has happened to 
pay scales in the United States. No one thought it could get this out 
of whack, but this is how stunning the statistic is.

If we look at those who are government workers, Federal employees, 
and if you take comparable professions in the private sector versus 
those of government employees, government employees, on average, make 
more than private employees in 83 percent of all professions. So, 
whether it's white collar or blue collar or management or professional 
or highly skilled or low skilled, it doesn't matter. In 83 percent of 
all professions, it's the government worker who is making more than the 
person in the private sector.

Well, is that so bad?

Well, consider it's the private sector that creates the revenue to 
pay for the government workers. Not only do the government workers make 
more; they make substantially more than their counterparts in the 
private sector--on average, 20 percent more in wages--but that isn't 
the whole package. When you combine the wages with the benefits 
package, which would be health care and retirement benefits, the 
government employees are making double what their counterparts are 
making in the private sector.

So, if you take someone, let's say, who is a janitor who is working 
for the government, the person is making, on average, double what a 
janitor is making in the private sector. If a person is a cook or if a 
person is a copy editor, on average, they are making double what people 
are making in the private sector. If you're working in the private 
sector at the exact same job, you're making about $60,000 a year versus 
$120,000 a year if you're a government employee.

So, today, this body was offered the opportunity to freeze the 
increase in wages for government employees. This body decided to take a 
pass. They didn't even want to freeze the increase, the next increase, 
in wages for the only sector in this economy that is making double what 
people in the private sector are making.

We also offered an opportunity for people in this body to freeze the 
wages of Members of Congress in 2011 and thereafter. Again, this body 
took a pass. Recently, on a Web site called YouCut, 500,000 American 
people voted and said this is the number one issue they would like 
Congress to address--freezing the salary of government employees.

Did this body listen? Well, not the majority party.

Those who are in the Republican Party voted almost uniformly to 
freeze the wages. In fact, I think it was uniform. One hundred percent 
of Republicans voted to freeze the wages of government employees and to 
freeze the salaries of Members of Congress. That didn't happen on the 
Democrat side of the aisle. Perhaps that could be because, as we have 
seen, it is the Democrats, unfortunately, who have been wild with 
taxpayer money, spending it at a rate of over double the excess rate 
that Republicans have spent. That's just one of the issues that has 
happened this week.



We also were watching the tragedy of the administration's late-to-
the-dance response to the tragedy of the Deepwater Horizon explosion in 
the Gulf of Mexico with BP. Where was the competence from the Federal 
Government and from the Obama administration when we needed them most, 
when all of this oil has been gushing into the Gulf and destroying the 
shoreline of the Gulf of Mexico, destroying the way of


life and fishing opportunities and rich tourism opportunities for those 
who live on the Gulf Coast? Where was the competence from our 
government when we needed it most?

We haven't seen competence in the government's hands-off policy with 
this disaster. We needed to ask the question on day one, what did the 
Obama administration do about the Coast Guard? What did they ask the 
Coast Guard to do to intervene? On day one, they weren't there. What 
did the administration do on day one with the booms that could have 
been put out in the ocean in order to quarantine off, if you will, this 
oil as it surged to the surface? Nowhere to be found.

The administration, they were hands off. They didn't do anything. 
Where were the boats that could have been commandeered by the 
government to be sent into this region to deal with that oil plume as 
it was coming up in the water and destroying marine life? Nowhere to be 
found. Why? The administration was hands off on this policy. They were 
missing in action.

Where was the emergency plan to deal with an oil rig explosion? There 
wasn't one. We found out to our horror there was no plan A, much less 
any plan B to deal with an emergency of this magnitude. And still the 
oil flows.

Also we saw this week the travesty of 1,000 soldiers now dead in 
Afghanistan. This is a horrible, chilling thought to see this happen, 
and we mourn their loss and we weep for their families and thank them 
for their service to our country.

Then, finally, today more news came out from the White House. We saw 
this week that back in February Representative Joe Sestak of this body 
said he was offered a job by someone in the administration in order not 
to run against Senator Specter in the primary in Pennsylvania.

Today, after three months, the White House said it was former 
President Bill Clinton who as an intermediary offered Mr. Sestak a job 
to stop running for political office in the primary in Pennsylvania 
against Senator Specter. Why? Because apparently President Obama backed 
Senator Specter for that political office. The only problem is that 
this activity is illegal to do under the United States Code, whether a 
job was offered either directly or indirectly by the administration.

When President Obama was asked yesterday in his press conference, the 
President refused to answer the reporter when he asked the question, 
Major Garrett. Instead, the President said the White House would issue 
a formal response.

Well, the American people need answers to this very serious question 
that was asked by Major Garrett: Who authorized former President 
Clinton to make this offer to Mr. Sestak? We don't know. The White 
House won't tell us. Who on the President's staff was involved in any 
of these discussions? We don't know. The White House won't tell us. 
What was offered to Mr. Sestak? We don't know. The White House won't 
tell us. Who was present when the offer was made? We don't know. The 
White House won't tell us. And what was the reply? We don't know. The 
White House won't tell us.

Did President Obama discuss this job for leaving the political race 
when he met with President Clinton this week at the White House? We 
don't know. The White House won't tell us.

This is a very serious charge, and for three months the media has 
failed to press President Obama for an answer, much less press him for 
details. Now that Mr. Sestak has won the primary over Mr. Specter, this 
issue looms large, and it demands an answer from the White House.

Double standards are wrong when it comes to equal application of the 
law. The law should not apply just one way for Republicans and another 
way for Democrats. We need to get to the bottom of this very serious 
issue, no matter which political party is in the White House.