# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `d470e5b8c35275e5cb5c60dd10d12c41`
`Mr. DORGAN — 17 December 2009`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, it is interesting to listen to the 
discussion on the floor of the Senate. We hear a lot about what is 
wrong these days. For a moment, let me say that there is a lot right in 
this country as well.

We are in a deep economic recession. I understand that. This is the 
deepest recession we have seen since the Great Depression. It is a 
difficult circumstance. But this country has been in tough 
circumstances before. The American people are a resilient bunch; they 
pull themselves up and move forward.

I understand the angst and the concern across this country. I 
understand the debate in the Chamber about what is wrong. I would be 
the first to say I don't think either political party is a great 
bargain sometimes. Both of them have their faults.

I think of that Ogden Nash poem that goes like this:



 He drinks because she [scolds],


 He thinks she [scolds] because he drinks,


 She thinks while neither will admit what's


 [really] true that he's a [drunk] and she's a shrew.


Both political parties, it seems to me, have faults, but both 
political parties have also contributed to the well-being of this 
country.

When I hear people say nothing works in America--I answered phones at 
the front desk yesterday for a while to hear from callers calling in 
about various things. I heard it on many occasions because a lot of 
people on the radio and on TV are saying nothing works in America and 
there is nothing the Federal Government has ever done that works.

The Internet--what a wonderful invention in the life of our planet. 
Yes, that was created by the Federal Government. Going way back, we 
brought electricity to America's farms and unleashed a barrage of 
productivity in American agriculture. When you drive around with a 
locator on the dashboard of your car, that is a GPS satellite--that is 
the government as well. The Interstate Highway System that connects 
America--when you drive down big roads that are connecting all of 
America, that is the Interstate Highway System, suggested by President 
Dwight D. Eisenhower. What a remarkable thing.


I also think of the story I read a while back about those two little 
creatures that are crawling around the planet Mars, one called Spirit 
and one called Opportunity. Five years ago, our country sent both of 
them to land on the surface of Mars. They landed 1 week apart. They are 
dune buggy-sized mechanical creatures on the surface of Mars. We sent 
them up by a rocket. They landed encased in a shroud, and they bounced 
and the shroud opened up and these dune buggy-sized vehicles began 
driving on the surface of Mars. They were expected to last 90 days. 
Five years later, Spirit and Opportunity have been driving on the 
surface of Mars collecting samples. One of them--I believe Spirit--had 
an arm that looked as if it was arthritic, so it was hanging at an 
angle, almost like a salute. The wheel broke, and so they were dragging 
the wheel and creating a trench. The arm reached back, and the 
scientist--it takes 9 minutes to send up a signal--the scientist had 
the arm reach back and dig into the trench so they could get better 
samples on the surface of Mars. These dune buggies were running on the 
surface of Mars. Yes, that is the Federal Government and all the 
contractors.

When somebody said to me that the Federal Government has never done 
anything right, I said: If you ever get to the Moon, just check the 
boot prints. They are not Chinese or Russian; they are made by an 
American astronaut--the one who planted the American flag there.

There is plenty wrong in this country, to be sure, but there is a lot 
right about this country.

About 9 years ago, at the start of this decade, our country had a 
budget surplus. Poor Alan Greenspan, the Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve Board, wasn't able to sleep. He was worried that we were going 
to pay down the debt too quickly. I assured him he ought to go to sleep 
peacefully because that is not a problem.

President Bush came to town and said: We are going to do very big tax 
cuts because it is estimated that we are going to have very big 
surpluses. I was one on the floor who said maybe we ought not do that. 
Let's be a little conservative. These surpluses don't exist for the 
next 10 years yet. They existed that year for the first time in a long 
time in the year 2000--a budget surplus. President Bush said: No, we 
are going to begin very large tax cuts right now in anticipation of 
these surpluses in the future. Some of us said:


Be careful. The wealthiest Americans got very large tax cuts, 
especially.

Almost immediately, this country went into a recession, and 6 months 
after that, this country was hit with 9/11, an unbelievable terrorist 
attack. Almost immediately, we went into the country of Afghanistan to 
go after Osama bin Laden. Then, very quickly, we invaded Iraq. We were 
at war for the rest of the decade without paying for one penny of it. 
Not a penny was paid for those wars or the increased funding to deal 
with terrorist attacks.

Some of us went to the floor of the Senate and said: Let's begin to 
try to pay for some of this. Why should we send our men and women to 
war and decide we won't ask anybody to pay for it? They thought we will 
just have the kids and grandkids pay the cost. The President said: If 
you add this to the bill to pay for it, I will veto the bill. So here 
we are.

Then we see, at exactly the same time, regulators coming to town 
boasting that they were willing to be willfully blind and they would 
not look or see and they would not care. We had a bunch of big high 
fliers create unbelievably exotic financial industries, such as credit 
default swaps and liars loans for mortgages, and they steered this 
country right into a ditch while the people at the top were making a 
lot of money, causing economic havoc the likes of which we have not 
seen since the 1930s. Our revenue at the Federal Government dropped 
$400 billion because of the deep recession. Expenditures for 
unemployment, food stamps, and so on, which are caused to go up during 
recessions, increased substantially, and we have very serious economic 
problems. There is no question about that. I can recite the problems as 
well as anybody. But let's also, from time to time, recite the strength 
of this country. It requires leadership from all of us to put this 
country back on track. I am convinced we can. I am convinced we will do 
that. We need a little cooperation here and there. There is not much 
these days. But I am convinced all of us want the same thing for this 
great country, and perhaps we can come together even if we have 
different views of how to get to that common destination. I am 
convinced one of these days we will make some progress and put America 
first.


I wished to come today to talk about something that is happening half 
away around the world in Copenhagen. That is the issue of climate 
change and energy. Even as leaders around the world gather in 
Copenhagen to talk about climate change, I wish to talk about the 
energy legislation that addresses the issue of climate change. The 
energy legislation that was passed by the Senate Energy and Natural 
Resources Committee earlier this year is a real energy policy that also 
protects the planet by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

We are not going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions because somebody 
signs a paper. We have a lot of environmental laws. Mexico is a good 
example. They have a lot of environmental laws on the books. They are 
just not enforced. Signing a paper is not going to mean much unless you 
have an agreement that makes sense for the planet and an agreement that 
is enforced and an agreement that is agreed to by virtually all the 
countries that are emitting a great deal of carbon.

I will tell you what will make a big difference; that is, for the 
Congress to pass the Senate Energy legislation, which truly does move 
us in the direction of addressing climate change.

That energy policy, by the way, is not some secretive policy. This 
past June we passed an energy bill out of the Senate Energy and Natural 
Resources Committee that does all the things I think we need to--or 
virtually all the things--address the issue of climate change and a 
lower carbon future. But it was not brought to the floor of the Senate 
or the House of Representatives because we are told energy legislation 
must be married or merged with climate change. I do not agree with 
that. We are going to have wasted a year, in my judgment, in which we 
could have debated the energy legislation on the floor of the Senate, 
and passed it into law by the signature of the President. This energy 
legislation maximizes the use of renewable energy, such as the building 
of the interstate transmission capability that would allow us to 
maximize renewable energy. The energy legislation would also establish 
a renewable electricity standard, the first one in the history of this 
country. The energy legislation would also retrofit buildings to make 
them more energy efficient, which would increase energy savings. I also 
offered an amendment to this legislation, that would also give us the 
ability to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by opening oil and gas 
production in the eastern Gulf of Mexico.

All these issues are in an energy bill that passed the Senate Energy 
and Natural Resources Committee on a bipartisan vote. Yet the benefits 
to this country from those energy policies that make a lot of sense, 
will not be available during this year, because those who are pushing 
for climate change legislation here say you have to do energy and 
climate change together.

I say this: I hope when we turn the corner and start a new year, that 
an energy bill that is bipartisan--Mr. President, I had indicated I 
wished to take 20 minutes today. I ask consent for the 10 additional 
minutes.