---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `d473069a0f8d00798ce482e8119ff580`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 19 May 2009`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join the distinguished 
chairman of the Committee on Appropriations in presenting to the Senate 
the fiscal year 2009 supplemental appropriations bill. This bill 
includes funding to combat violent extremism in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
and supports other emergency requirements both at home and abroad.

This bill includes funding for the men and women in the Armed Forces 
and our diplomatic corps, and gives them the resources necessary to 
carry out the missions assigned to them by our Government.

I commend the distinguished chairman for moving this bill in a timely 
manner to ensure that our service men and women have the resources they 
need while still allowing time for the Senate to carefully consider the 
bill.

I hope this year we can complete action on the supplemental in time 
to avoid putting the Secretary of Defense in a position where he is 
compelled to postpone acquisitions or transfer funding between 
accounts, and take other inefficient steps to maintain the flow of 
resources to our troops in the field.

This bill contains several important initiatives that will strengthen 
our military's ability to prosecute its mission and improve the overall 
readiness of our forces. Several of these priorities were identified by 
the Department of Defense but were not included in the President's 
request. We were able to fund these additional needs while staying 
within the overall spending level requested by the President for 
Defense programs.

The bill contains more than $18 billion for military pay and 
benefits, including $1.9 billion to cover shortfalls not requested by 
the administration. The bill also includes funding for continued 
operations, equipment repair and replacement, and enhanced support to 
wounded warriors and military families.

The bill contains $4.2 billion for mine resistant ambush protected 
vehicles. This recommendation is $1.5 billion more than the 
administration's request and will help speed the delivery of an ''All 
Terrain'' version of the vehicle to Afghanistan where harsh terrain 
challenges the mobility of our forces.

The committee also recommends $332 million above the President's 
request to fund urgent requirements identified by the Secretary of 
Defense's Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Task Force. 
These funds will be used to procure additional sensors, platforms, and 
communication systems that are critical for finding and neutralizing 
al-Qaida and insurgent forces.

To maintain the readiness of our forces, the bill includes an 
additional $246 million above the President's request for the Navy's P-
3 surveillance aircraft. These planes are not only used


for maritime patrol, but also to support Army and Marine ground forces 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. The funds will allow the Navy to procure wing 
kits needed to address structural fatigue issues that have led to the 
grounding of many of these aircraft.

The committee also recommends $190 million above the President's 
request for ship depot maintenance to address damage done to three Navy 
vessels during recent mishaps. These repairs are truly unforeseen 
emergencies, and the funds in this bill will help ensure these ships 
return to the operational fleet as soon as possible.

Although the President's request did not include funding in the 
National Guard and Reserve equipment account, the committee recommends 
$500 million. Currently there are over 140,000 National Guard and 
Reserve personnel activated. This funding will help ensure those 
personnel have the resources necessary to perform their duties. These 
funds will be used to procure equipment for National Guard and Reserve 
units to be used to support combat missions and taskings from State 
Governors.

The Defense title also contains $400 million for the Pakistan 
Counterinsurgency Capability Fund. This new initiative proposed by the 
President is intended to bolster efforts to eliminate terrorist 
safe havens in the rugged border region of Pakistan and Afghanistan. I 
understand the legitimate concern raised by Senators who believe that 
such a program should be administered by the Department of State, but I 
believe the needs of the commanders on the ground warrant short-term 
funding for the Defense Department until this program can be 
effectively transferred to the State Department.


While this supplemental is predominantly focused on American efforts 
abroad, I am pleased that the bill also responds to emergencies here at 
home. The bill includes several provisions to aid in my State's ongoing 
recovery from Hurricane Katrina, including funding to restore the 
federally owned barrier islands that serve as the first line of 
protection for the Mississippi coastline. These islands were 
significantly diminished by Katrina, and according to a Corps of 
Engineers' study their restoration will go a long way toward mitigating 
future damage.

I greatly appreciate the bipartisan manner in which the chairman 
worked with me and other members on our side in crafting this bill. He 
and his staff have been very open to requests, even while producing a 
bill that adds very little to the top-line amount requested by the 
President.

In this bill, Chairman Inouye made a sincere effort to respond to 
security concerns at Guantanamo Bay without denying outright the 
resources requested by the President to analyze and implement closure 
of the facility. I understand, however, that the funding and language 
relating to Guantanamo remain controversial. I anticipate these matters 
will be thoroughly discussed and that several Senators are likely to 
propose amendments.

Senators may also have amendments relating to the International 
Monetary Fund. The bill reported by the committee includes language 
sought by the President to expand the United States commitment to the 
IMF. This request was submitted only a week ago, and there was very 
little time prior to the committee markup in which to consult with the 
relevant authorizing committees and other experts. I am not aware that 
there have been Senate hearings on this request. I look forward to 
further discussion of this important subject, but wish to express my 
concern that the manner in which this request has been presented could 
endanger the timely enactment of this supplemental. I hope that is not 
the case.

I would like once again to thank the Senator from Hawaii for the 
manner in which he has put this bill together. I look forward to 
working with him to get the bill to the President in a timely fashion, 
and to beginning work in earnest on the regular fiscal year 2010 
appropriations bills. We have a busy summer ahead of us.

I urge my colleagues on the Republican side who may have amendments 
to the supplemental to contact us so that we can make efficient use of 
the Senate's time.

Mr. President, I know the Senator from Oklahoma wants to make a 
comment. I will yield first, though, to the distinguished chairman.