# DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007
## `d4740481c3f79a3a29f491c4718d83ec`
`Mr. CONYERS — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

This is an historic moment indeed. I am honored to lead the floor 
management of a bill that we have been waiting so long to debate and 
hopefully move forward from the House of Representatives.

This is an important moment in American history. We must now act to 
discontinue the disenfranchisement of citizens in the Nation's Capital. 
We must act to complete the important unfinished business of our 
democracy.

All of you here are all too familiar with the struggle for D.C. 
voting rights. I remember Chairman Emanuel Celler, chairman of the 
House Judiciary Committee, when the House gave the District a vote in 
1967. I remember Delegate Walter Fauntroy's and Senator Ed Brooke's 
pursuit of the District's representation in 1978. I have now had the 
privilege of working with the distinguished gentlewoman, the Delegate 
from the District of Columbia, Eleanor Holmes Norton, a tireless, 
relentless, brilliant advocate of the effort that brings us here today.

Right now we are attempting to resolve what could not be resolved 
before, through the bipartisan efforts of so many. Mr. Davis of 
Virginia, Mr. Cannon of Utah, Mr. Matheson and Mr. Bishop have gotten 
us this far today, but I would be remiss if I did not name the former 
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Jim Sensenbrenner, who 
helped bring us so close to passage of this legislation in the last 
Congress. I thank all of you for the important work that has led us to 
this great and wonderful day.

Now, the bill before us today has a novel proposal, but it is one 
that we have seen before. We are now here today to finish the important 
work on this measure that we almost completed when we adjourned the 
last Congress. We are here today to finish the job.

As the only democracy in the world where citizens living in the 
capital city are denied their representation in the National 
Legislature, we come here to repair this obvious defect. Nearly 600,000 
people who call the District of Columbia home, who pay taxes, who fight 
and die in the military, do not have a vote in the Congress. They do 
not have a vote in the Congress. That is what brings us here today. I 
am talking about people like one of its citizens, Andy Shallal, a local 
business owner and an Iraqi American.

Thousands of American soldiers, including District residents, have 
given their lives in fighting for democracy in Iraq. Because of their 
sacrifice, Andy can vote for the national legislature in Iraq but is 
denied a vote for his own Member of Congress in Washington, District of 
Columbia.

So District residents like Andy and all those who share the 
responsibilities of U.S. citizenship deserve voting representation in 
this Congress, and I believe that most in this body agree with me. I 
believe that H.R. 1433 is a sound policy response to this inequity. 
While some have raised questions and we have debated, we have had 
constitutional scholars from across the country join us in analyzing 
the way that we have put this measure together. I am totally and 
confidently satisfied that we have a bill that passes constitutional 
muster. We have a bill that can finally end the disenfranchisement of 
District residents.

The legislation relies obviously on Article I, section 8, clause 17, 
which provides Congress with the authority to give the District a vote. 
The Supreme Court has held that Congress's exclusive authority over the 
District is ''national in the highest sense.'' The D.C. Circuit Court 
has held that the Congress has ''extraordinary and plenary power'' over 
the District. The District of Columbia Court of Appeals has found the 
District Clause to be ''sweeping and inclusive in character.''

Distinguished conservatives, we emphasize that this is not a partisan 
measure. Thoughtful scholars like Viet Dinh, judges and scholars like 
Ken Starr, whom I have never cited or quoted before now, and our former 
colleague Jack Kemp, just to name a few, agree that the Congress has 
the power through simple legislation to give the District of Columbia a 
vote.

We have used the District Clause to treat the District like a State 
repeatedly: for diversity jurisdiction, for 11th amendment immunity, 
for alcohol regulation, for interstate transportation, for apprentice 
labor, for the collection


of State income taxes, the list goes on and on. Surely, we cannot say 
that we cannot give them, the District residents, a vote in the same 
way that we have handled so many other matters.

I am confident that we can pair the District of Columbia with Utah 
and give Utah an at-large seat. Article I, section 4 gives Congress 
ultimate authority over Federal elections. The one person, one vote 
principle will be left intact. No vote will be compromised or diluted. 
None of their vote will be lost, nor will it be expanded. Utah voters 
will be given an equal opportunity to elect an at-large Representative 
on a temporary basis and a District Representative.

This fight has been long, 200 years too long. We can debate this 
issue to no end, but at the end of the day, if District residents 
remain disenfranchised, we ought to be ashamed. We have a sound, 
bipartisan proposal before us, and I am happy to entertain the 
discussion on both sides of the aisle that will proceed at this time.

I want to thank those of our Republican colleagues in the House who 
have already seen fit to make it clear that they, too, will be joining 
with us to make this a bipartisan solution to an old problem. I am 
proud to think and hope that D.C. disenfranchisement will come to an 
end.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.