---
---

# None
## `d479eca2813a454fc7620c4e070fb71b`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Madam Speaker, I thank the distinguished Chair 
for joining us. I thank my friend from California for cooperating in 
this debate and giving his usual vigorous presentation of his side's 
point of view. I want to address a couple of things that came up.

One, my friend from California said basically that this is a 
resolution attempting to appease the Out of Iraq Caucus. And he used 
the word ''appease.''

It is not about that. But I will confess that I am a person who is 
strongly opposed to this war, believe it was the wrong decision, it was 
based on false information, and it is the single most terrible foreign 
policy blunder that our country has embarked upon. But this resolution 
has nothing to do with that profound question.

What this is about is not who favors corruption. Nobody favors 
corruption. But it is about who tolerates secrecy. If we tolerate 
secrecy while we criticize corruption, don't we, in fact, condone the 
corruption to which we avert our eyes?

How will we talk about the facts? How can we talk about the facts 
which my distinguished colleague from California says he wants to talk 
about when the State Department denies us the facts?

If we are going to root out corruption in Iraq, don't we have to 
destroy the wall of self-serving State Department secrecy here in our 
own government?

It has been said on the other side that corruption is everywhere. 
Human nature. No argument there. But if corruption exists elsewhere and 
it is their money and their future, that is one thing. If corruption 
exists in Iraq with our hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars and 
our soldiers and their lives, then it is our problem. And we not only 
have a right, we have a responsibility, Madam Speaker, to do every 
single thing we can to get to the bottom of it and to stop it.

It was also said that in Iraq it is just another government with some 
corruption. We owe it not just to our own citizens, our own soldiers; 
we owe it to our allies and our friends in Iraq to do everything we can 
to help those good people who are there standing up to fight corruption 
back here. They need our help.

Let me just tell you some of the testimony that Judge Radhi presented 
to us about the incredible peril that folks in Iraq are subjected to 
when they try to fight for an honest government. Judge Radhi held that 
position for 3 years, until he finally resigned amid repeated death 
threats to himself, his family, and his staff.

He testified in our committee that 31 of his employees had been 
killed, not injured, killed, as well as at least 12 of their family 
members. Judge Radhi's home was attacked by rockets, by a sniper's 
bullet barely missing him as he stood outside his office. He testified 
about how one staff member was gunned down with a 7-month pregnant 
wife. He testified about how the father of a security chief was 
kidnapped and then literally found hung on a meat hook. He testified 
about how another staff member's father was killed; and when his dead 
body was found, a power drill had been used to drill his body with 
holes.

These are officials who are fighting corruption in Iraq, and they are 
being gunned down, they are being assassinated, they are being 
tortured; and we are supposed to be standing idly by.

When we ask questions of the State Department what is going on and 
they take a document that yesterday was unclassified and today make it 
classified, that is not acceptable. The State Department anticorruption 
efforts have been a mess. And basically what the State Department is 
doing is just enough so that they can claim they are trying to do 
something about corruption; but basically it is status quo, as it has 
been since the day this war began.

We have to make a decision as Members of Congress that is very 
simple: we are real, we are serious, or we aren't. And it is about 
tolerating secrecy, depriving us and the American people of information 
that we are entitled to, that we must have in order to do our job; or 
it is turning a blind eye to those folks in Iraq who are standing up on 
our side and finding their bodies of loved ones drilled with holes and 
hung on meat hooks. It is not acceptable. The American people know it 
is not acceptable.

We may have an administration that disregarded the vote of the 
American people in November when they said they wanted a new direction 
in Iraq. We may have an administration that disregarded the 
recommendations of an eminent bipartisan group in the Iraq Study 
Commission. And we may have an administration that has dismissed and 
disregarded votes in this House and the Senate, making it clear that we 
want a new direction even as we struggle to find what that is. But we 
cannot, any of us on either side of the aisle, accept being an 
enfeebled Congress that isn't entitled to get the information that our 
Congress needs to do its job. It is that simple.

And that is what this resolution is about. That is what the Oversight 
and Government Reform Committee is about. That is what Chairman Waxman 
is standing up to assert and defend, and that is our constitutional 
responsibility. Not just prerogative, but constitutional responsibility 
to do what is required to defend our Constitution, to protect our 
soldiers, to stand up for our taxpayers, and to restore democratic 
tradition in this country.