# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d47ff439f86dcfff5443ce34c62bb283`
`Mr. WALDEN of Oregon — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. WALDEN of Oregon. Mr. Speaker, since learning we would consider a 
resolution regarding troop levels in Iraq, I have spent considerable 
time listening to veterans of this war and other wars questioning some 
of America's top national security officials, reading every e-mail, 
literally every letter on this most serious issue of this day that has 
come into my office from my constituents. I have listened to voices of 
leaders of other nations who surround Iraq. I have read the National 
Intelligence Report. I have read the Iraq Study Committee Report. I 
have been given books such as ''Fiasco'' to digest, and I have reached 
out to the parents of brave Americans who are on their way into this 
conflict, and I have heard from the parents of sons who were lost in 
this conflict. I have heard strong opinions on both sides of this 
issue, and I have reflected upon my own vote to authorize the war in 
the first place.

To say the least, it has been an agonizing experience. Agonizing, 
because I want to do what is right for America with minimal sacrifice 
to the brave Americans who wear our Nation's uniform. I want to do what 
is right to protect our freedom and our security.

I will always remember the days and nights when the smoke from the 
burning Pentagon wafted into the apartment I lived in just blocks from 
that building. I remember the images of that day when rescue personnel 
were trying to save lives, only to lose their own. I remember the 
pledge I made to myself that I would never let that happen to America 
again if I had my way.

So I supported implementation of the 9/11 Commission Report. I 
supported efforts to improve our intelligence gathering and processing 
efforts so that America does not miss key indicators of danger or, 
worse, misinterpret the data that is gathered.

Policymakers must be given accurate, reliable intelligence if we are 
to make responsible decisions. Had Congress been given an accurate 
intelligence assessment, I doubt the vote to invade Iraq would ever 
have come to this floor in the first place, and I certainly would not 
have cast the vote I cast because the threat was not what we were told 
it was, despite the horrific brutality of Saddam Hussein and his 
henchmen sons.

Unfortunately, though, we cannot edit history; we cannot change the


past. Our responsibility is to the present and even more so to the 
future, America's future.

In some areas of the world, America has made strong diplomatic 
progress on the most difficult issues facing our planet. I speak of the 
recent agreement with North Korea coming out of the Six Party talks. I 
am reminded of the willingness of Libya to give up its weapons of mass 
destruction and come into line with the world community. And while much 
work remains regarding Iran's nuclear development, America's work with 
other countries and through the United Nations is having an effect on 
Iran.

Meanwhile, our troops and our work internationally in Afghanistan 
continues to show progress, even in light of the recent resurgence of 
the Taliban. Consider the historic role NATO is playing to bring peace 
and stability to that far-off land.

So if we are accomplishing good in Afghanistan and elsewhere, why is 
the situation in Iraq still such a mess? And what can or should America 
do there now that will hasten Iraq's move towards stability and hasten 
the bringing home of our troops to America?

As my colleague from New Mexico, Heather Wilson, so eloquently and 
forcefully asked this week: What are America's strategic interests in 
Iraq, and how can we best achieve them?

These are the serious questions of our day, and these are the issues 
tragically missing from this nonbinding resolution.

In this new world where war is not waged by armies in uniform with 
codes of honor but by terrorists who blow up food markets and behead 
journalists, how do we respond in an effective way to prevent the 
insanity from coming again to our shores? How best do we prevent a 
whole region from ripping apart at the seams and perhaps taking much of 
the world with it?

While Congress has a clear constitutional role and responsibility 
when the Nation is at war, where is the line that Congress should not 
cross? Are we really best equipped to decide precisely how many 
reinforcements are sent into which battle? Isn't that a decision best 
left to the commanders in the field? Can Congress really give General 
Petraeus a unanimous vote of support to lead our effort in Iraq and 
then turn around and deny him the strategy he told us he believes is 
necessary to win?

A former colonel in the Air Force wrote to me recently on this very 
topic. She said, ''Some in Congress say they support General Petraeus 
but don't want them to undertake the mission they were confirmed to do. 
It seems right out of Alice in Wonderland.''

And if Congress is going to make these decisions, then have we really 
carefully analyzed where the other 134,754 troops in Iraq are, what 
they are doing, and what they should do?

Another of the e-mails I received was from a veteran of the Vietnam 
War who, like many other veterans of that conflict, urged me to vote 
against this resolution; and he wrote, ''Our troops need unqualified 
support. They don't need to be told they are participating in a lost 
cause.''

Indeed, this two-sentence nonbinding resolution does send a very 
mixed message to our troops. Moreover, this resolution is a lost 
opportunity to address at least five major issues that a serious 
Congress needs to address.

First, this resolution fails to even mention the Iraqi role. Where is 
the siren call for the Iraqi government to keep its word and perform as 
promised? We cannot expect for long to do for Iraq what it is unwilling 
to do for itself.

Second, this resolution fails to even mention the need for this 
administration to embrace the Iraq Study Group Report's call for 
aggressive diplomatic initiatives with Syria, Iran, and other nations 
in Iraq's neighborhood. Where is the call for enhanced diplomacy?

Third, this resolution fails to even mention the need to replenish 
the equipment that our National Guard units have left behind while 
serving our country overseas. My State's own National Guard's ability 
to conduct training is deeply affected by lack of equipment.

Fourth, this resolution fails to call on Iran, Syria, and other 
nations to stop directly or indirectly supplying the weapons and 
explosives to those who detonate car bombs in Baghdad and elsewhere in 
Iraq, killing women and children as they try to buy food in local 
markets. Where is the condemnation of their actions?

Fifth, this resolution fails to define what our strategic national 
interests are in Iraq and how we can best achieve them.

I know that I stand alone in my State's delegation by opposing this 
resolution. I have been told by some I should just vote for it. It 
would be easier politically for me because then the problem is off my 
back. It is someone else's. They will own it. I cannot do that and look 
at myself in the mirror.

I cannot ignore the counsel recently given to us by diplomats in the 
region whose advice we ignored when America took on this challenge in 
Iraq and who now counsel us with most seriousness in the strongest of 
terms against leaving Iraq before the country is stabilized. They have 
made it clear to this Member of Congress that failure in Iraq will have 
grave and dangerous consequences to the entire region. In short, we 
broke it, we need to fix it before we leave it.

But fixing Iraq does not mean ending religious differences, 
differences that have ripped apart that region for 1,300 years or more. 
Fixing Iraq does not mean installing our form of democracy. Fixing Iraq 
means ensuring a new terrorist haven is not created or allowed to be 
created from which they can train and plan safely to carry out attacks 
against the West. Fixing Iraq means ensuring their government can stand 
on its own and not collapse into a sinkhole that drags other nations in 
the region into an abyss.

Given the glaring shortcomings of the non-binding resolution we have 
before us today, I will vote ''no'' for as many of those who served in 
Vietnam have told me its message does undercut our troops. Moreover, it 
fails to call for the increased diplomatic initiatives in the region, 
it fails to call for Iraq to do its part, it fails to define our 
strategic national interests of stabilizing Iraq so as to prevent the 
creation of another terrorist training haven, and it fails to address 
the very real needs of our National Guard.

It is unfortunate that the opportunity to actually affect these very 
serious policy choices was not allowed on the Floor of the House today. 
It is, indeed, a missed opportunity for America.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
