---
---

# TRIBUTE TO JIM WHAM
## `d4ce21fd68fd248f99eb691b51ce44b7`
`Mr. SHIMKUS — 31 July 2007`

---


Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the patriotism of 
Mr. Jim Wham of Centralia, Illinois. Mr. Wham delivered a passionate 
speech this past May 5th expressing the importance of winning the War 
on Terror.

In his brief message, Mr. Wham, an attorney at law in my district, 
remarked on the immense debt we owe our fighting men and


women for this sacrifices they have have made in this war and rebuked 
the defeatists who would set an arbitrary date for surrender.

Therefore, I respectfully submit the text of Mr. Wham's speech for 
the Record in the hopes that others will stand with him in support of 
our troops and the mission for which they fight.











[From the Sentinel, May 8, 2007]












 2007 Tribute to the Troops















 (By Jim Wham)




 I want to commend the 15th Street Church of God for this 


 event at the Bandshell. This evening of prayer and song forms 


 the perfect occasion to recognize the men and women serving 


 this country in the Armed Forces of the United States. Each 


 one of them and their families are making a sacrifice unlike 


 any other.



 Every American when called to serve in the Armed Forces of 


 the United States performs the duty assigned to him or her by 


 the Commander-in-Chief and not by Congressmen and Senators.



 I thought of each life of these men and women and all 


 others who served their country. The course and destiny of 


 their lives are set by chance assignment of that duty. Some 


 come back unscathed, others marked by grievous wounds and 


 others never come back.



 The month of May is the month we pay honor to the men and 


 women on Armed Services Day a couple of weeks from now, and 


 then a week later, Memorial Day--a day when everyone in this 


 land of liberty must stop, look to the story of the soldiers, 


 sailors and marines who fell on battlefields--went down in 


 sinking ships--in crashing planes--in the deserts--in the 


 jungles--in the towns--all over this world during the entire 


 lifetime of this nation.



 The unknown soldiers and the unsung heroes--there are 


 thousands and thousands of them. These gallant men and women 


 most likely will never be known by the people for what they 


 did. They served and they did not ask for glory. Their deeds 


 of valor on battlefields and oceans and in the air never had 


 a chance to be forgotten because they remained unspoken and 


 unknown.



 The American people never forget these known and unknown 


 living and dead Americans--this ever expanding LEGION OF 


 HONOR has never let their country down and no one in this 


 country should ever let them down.



 Jesus tells us ''Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall 


 be called the children of God.'' The peacemakers--they are 


 the men and women in the American Armed Forces--the 


 peacemakers who in defending freedom do so to bring peace to 


 the world--God's world and to the children of God.



 The tyrants foment conflict and war. The armed forces of 


 the U.S. are always against the tyrant--never in support of 


 the tyrant, and these American men and women we honor today--


 honor them for opposing a tyranny of a new dark age, a 


 tyranny of worldwide terrorism--a dark age spawned from the 


 dens of terrorists throughout the world even in this country 


 and in our allies Britain and Israel as well as in countless 


 other nations.



 These insane religious fanatics misuse their religion to 


 cultivate and persuade thousands of suicide bombers to 


 destroy multi-thousands of innocent people who are unlucky 


 enough to be at the wrong place at the wrong time when the 


 suicide bomber explodes himself in their midst.



 This war in Iraq is no civil war--it is a war against gangs 


 of vicious mad dog criminals who want to kill off any 


 democratic government that can be formed--a government that 


 people yearn for and deserve. These criminals know that they 


 cannot succeed as long as American troops are in Iraq helping 


 good people form a democracy.



 These criminals hide in the casbahs and mountains while 


 promoting their lackeys to kill themselves and others, hoping 


 that such killings will aid the second-guessers in America to 


 oppose the Commander-in-Chief by insisting on a day of 


 surrender--a day to leave the Middle East--a day to quit any 


 resistance against the terrorists.



 These second-guessers proclaim to the world that the war is 


 lost; their words bring smiles to the evil faces of those 


 marauders. These quitters are like a quarterback shouting to 


 the other team. ''We're not going to pass, we're runnin' 


 around the left end.''



 We are running away from you--the terrorists--is the 


 message of the quitter.



 If they want to win a war they say is lost, they, the 


 second guessers not the President, must change their tune 


 because quitters never win.



 The Scripture proclaims ''If the trumpet gives an uncertain 


 sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle.'' There are 


 far too many uncertain trumpets being sounded in Washington 


 today and in the national news media. These uncertain 


 trumpets inspire nothing but joy in the haunts of the 


 terrorists who love to hear those mournful tunes in the USA.



 When these friends from Hell see the leader of the Senate 


 on television proclaim the war is lost, the terrorists around 


 the world applaud and promote more suicide bombers to hasten 


 the day of American surrender.



 And when they see and hear the Senate leader condemn the 


 Vice President, they applaud again and try to kill him in 


 Pakistan.



 Don't these second guessing quitters know that the United 


 States has a vital interest to contest the terrorist in the 


 Middle East--in that caldron of hatred and insanity which is 


 the launching pad for terrorists against this country and its 


 allies?



 Don't be second-guessers give any thought at all to the 


 downside of an American surrender by pulling out of that part 


 of the world?



 Every concerned American who stops, looks, and listens to 


 the present day happenings knows the disastrous downside of 


 an American pull-out from Iraq.



 It would proclaim to the world an American confession that 


 terrorism has won a victory over the United States.



 World power of the United States would evaporate.



 No longer would the United States lead in the battle for 


 peace and freedom which is so necessary to the salvation of 


 our own way of life.



 Do the quitters ever envision their day at the Baghdad 


 airport--when a thousand transport planes land and take off 


 with the American army to the dismay of every decent person 


 who knows that there goes the last best chance for peace and 


 freedom?



 Why can't these quitters envision that into the vacuum left 


 behind, the criminal gangs of the Taliban, al Qaeda, the 


 death squads of both Sunnis and Shiites will seize the 


 opportunity in a common cause against their own people and 


 against America and her allies by joining together these 


 legions of evil against the decent people of the Middle East.



 Doesn't it occur to the quitter that a coalition of Iran, 


 Iraq and Syria under despotic leaders will bring pressure and 


 threat of conquest against Saudi Arabia and Kuwait as Saddam 


 Hussein attempted to do in the 1990's Desert Storm?



 Can't the quitters envision the utter chaos that will come 


 when the nuclear bomb is developed in Iran or acquired from 


 North Korea and those reckless fanatics threaten their 


 surrounding countries to joint the crowd?



 If America is gone from Iraq, will that insane fanatic from 


 Iran, Ahmadinejad press the button that will lead to a 


 premature Armageddon in Israel?



 A hundred years ago, when Teddy Roosevelt was President, he 


 spoke these words about this nation's destiny: ''We have no 


 choice as to whether or not we shall play a great part in the 


 world. That is already the case. ''All that we can decide is 


 whether we shall play it well or play it ill.''



 Thus far, we have played it well but we are now at the 


 crossroads of the decision that will affect all mankind. The 


 question is, will we stay and fight for freedom and for peace 


 or will we forfeit the field to those vicious criminals who 


 in no way respect the God-given miracle of life.



 Rudyard Kipling--the great British patriot and poet of the 


 19th and 20th Centuries put to verse the lesson of 


 perseverance in long lasting battles. Here's the way he wrote 


 it:



 ''How do we know, when the long fight rages,


 On the old, stale front that we cannot shake,


 And it looks as though we were locked for ages.


 How do we know they are going to break?


 There is no lull in the level firing,


 Nothing has shifted except the sun.


 Yet we can feel they are tiring, tiring--


 Yet we can tell they are ripe to run.


 Something wavers, and, while we wonder,


 Their centre-trenches are emptying out,


 And, before their useless flanks go under,


 Our guns have pounded retreat to rout.''




 In other words, we win by hanging on.



 My friends, American forces are going to win this war 


 against terrorism. The war is not lost and no one should 


 listen to the quitters because they are the losers of the 


 present and the future.



 If we but stand fast with the troops and our Commander-in-


 Chief, the fiends of Hell will lose. And the sacrifice of 


 these gallant men and women we honor today will not have been 


 in vain. They must not be let down by quitting and surrender.
