# COMPREHENSIVE IRAN SANCTIONS, ACCOUNTABILITY, AND DIVESTMENT ACT OF
## `d4d10f65beccf16f3705d9a1b7899901`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 24 June 2010`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for 
the conference report on the Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act.

This conference report expands sanctions authorized by the Iranian 
Sanctions Act of 1996 to foreign companies who sell Iran refined 
petroleum, support Iran's domestic refining capacity or sell Iran 
goods, services, or know-how that assist it in developing its energy 
sector; bans U.S. banks from engaging in financial transactions with 
foreign banks who do business with Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guards 
Corps or facilitate Iran's nuclear program and its support for 
terrorism; establishes three new sanctions the President may impose on 
violators of the Iranian Sanctions Act and requires the President to 
impose at least three of nine possible sanctions authorized by that 
act; bans U.S. government procurement contracts to companies that 
export technology to Iran that inhibits the free flow of information; 
and authorizes States and local governments to divest from companies 
involved in Iran's energy sector.

The sanctions will terminate when the President certifies to Congress 
that Iran is no longer a state-sponsor of terrorism and has ceased 
efforts to acquire nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons and 
ballistic missiles and technology.

Let me be clear: I am deeply concerned about Iran's uranium 
enrichment program and its refusal to abide by United Nations Security 
Council resolutions calling on Tehran to cease its activities and, once 
and for all, come clean about its nuclear program.

A nuclear Iran would represent a serious threat to the security of 
the United States, Israel, and the international community.

The question is, What is the best way to convince Iran to abandon its 
uranium enrichment program?

During the previous administration, the United States sat on the 
sidelines and refused to talk to Iran.

We let the United Kingdom, France, and Germany do the hard work of 
negotiating with Tehran as we remained silent.

And it got us nowhere. Iran's uranium enrichment program accelerated 
and became more advanced.

We had to try a different approach.

I strongly supported the Obama administration's decision to break 
with this past and pursue a robust, diplomatic initiative with Iran.

I am disappointed we have not made more progress. Indeed, Iran has 
taken steps in the wrong direction.

A new, secret enrichment facility at Qom was uncovered.

Iran refused to accept a U.S.-Russian proposal to ship its low 
enriched uranium to Russia and France for further processing for 
medical isotopes.

And it continues to drag its feet on revealing to the International 
Atomic Energy Agency the full extent of its nuclear program.

But the commitment this administration made to diplomacy gave us the 
leverage we needed to secure the backing for a fourth round of 
sanctions at the United Nations Security Council.

There was no question that China and Russia were skeptical about 
additional sanctions.

Securing their support and maintaining the support of our allies 
required principled, sustained, and deft diplomacy and I congratulate 
the administration for its success.

Yet I recognize that the U.N. resolution could have been stronger and 
that unilateral action, such as the sanctions included in this 
legislation, will complement the U.N. efforts.

And that is why I support passage of this legislation.

Nevertheless, I believe it is critical for the United States to 
continue to pursue the diplomacy track.

We must develop a ''Plan B'' to deal with the possibility that Iran's 
nuclear ambitions progress.

Iran has been able to withstand previous sanctions initiatives and 
there is no guarantee that this latest round will be more effective.

We know that China and Russia are unlikely to support tougher 
measures at this time.

Military action is not a ''Plan B''. A strike would likely only 
delay, not destroy, Iran's nuclear program and lead to more violence 
and instability in the region.

In my view, we must use the passage of the latest U.N. Security 
Council resolution and passage of this legislation as an opportunity to 
reach out to Tehran again on a fresh diplomatic initiative, not just on 
the nuclear program but on other issues where we can find some level of 
common ground and avenues of cooperation.

Two months ago I had lunch with Iran's ambassador to the United 
Nations, Mohammad Khazaee, and I was struck by the lack of trust and 
understanding between our two countries.

If we can find ways to build that trust, we may be able to secure 
progress on the most intractable issues.

As chair of the Caucus on International Narcotics Control, I strongly 
suggest that cooperation on counternarcotics efforts is a good place to 
start.

For example, Iran has suffered greatly from the influx of Afghan 
opium:


based on U.N. Office of Drugs and Crime annual assessments, 
approximately 140 tons of Afghan heroin enter Iran each year from 
Afghanistan--105 tons--and from Pakistan--35 tons; the estimated heroin 
user population in Iran is around 400,000 individuals, consuming, at a 
rate of about 35 grams per year, almost 14 tons of heroin annually; 
drug trafficking is considered such a major security threat that the 
government has spent over US$600 million to dig ditches, build barriers 
and install barbed wire to stop well-armed drug convoys from entering 
the country; and more than 3,500 Iranian border guards have been killed 
in the past three decades by drug traffickers.

Given that the Iranian drug use epidemic is providing funding for the 
insurgency in Afghanistan, it seems logical to begin a cooperative 
dialogue with Iran on this area of mutual concern to build trust 
between both sides and promote progress on other matters, particularly 
Iran's nuclear program.

I am hopeful that the passage of this legislation will not cease 
efforts on a diplomatic solution, but open the door to finding new ways 
to build trust and understanding between Iran and the international 
community.

There is no guarantee that we will be successful in convincing Iran 
to suspend its uranium enrichment program but we have to explore every 
possible avenue.

I firmly believe that we can still find a solution and work out our 
differences.

I am hopeful that this legislation will bring us closer to that goal.

I yield the floor.