---
---

# FAITH AND FOREIGN POLICY
## `d4defb929ae20e7d30a0341578db8d50`
`Mr. WOLF — 24 May 2010`

---


Mr. WOLF. Madam Speaker, I submit for the Record a piece by Tom Farr, 
former American diplomat and senior fellow at the Berkley Center for 
Religion, Peace and World Affairs which recently ran in The Washington 
Post.

Farr highlights several of the more alarming findings outlined in the 
recently released annual report of the U.S. Commission on International 
Religious Freedom.

Whether it is the persecution endured by Tibetan Buddhist monks or 
the violence perpetrated against the ancient Christian community in 
Iraq--religious freedom is under assault around the world.

Farr points out that the commission makes a host of policy 
recommendations which should prove invaluable to the U.S. State 
Department as it seeks to advocate for those whose voices have been 
silenced around the world.

However, Farr also rightly notes that ''one could easily conclude 
that Obama Administration officials have no intention of giving 
priority


to religious freedom in U.S. foreign policy, if for no other reason 
than the President's extreme lassitude in nominating an official to 
head the IRF (International Religious Freedom) operation--the 
ambassador at large for international religious freedom required by the 
IRF act.''

I commend this piece to my colleagues. It is a sobering but realistic 
assessment of the diminished state of religious freedom advocacy in 
U.S. foreign policy. It ought to be cause of great concern for all 
Americans who cherish this first freedom.








Obama at the Crossroads on Religious Liberty














faith and foreign policy















(By Thomas Farr)




 The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom 


 (IRF) has come down hard on the Obama administration for its 


 failure to promote international religious liberty. ''U.S. 


 foreign policy on religious freedom,'' said Commission 


 chairman Leonard Leo, ''is missing the mark.''



 The Commission, established by the 1998 IRF Act, is a 


 bipartisan group of nine men and women drawn from across the 


 American political and religious landscape, and it includes 


 Obama supporters. To its credit, the group's annual report, 


 released last week, is raising the right issues at the right 


 time.



 The report reminds us of a primary reason the United States 


 seeks to advance religious freedom. It recounts in disturbing 


 detail the cruelties practiced worldwide on human beings 


 because of their religious beliefs and practices, or those of 


 their tormentors. A small sampling: Rape victims still 


 languish in Pakistani prisons because religious laws require 


 women to produce four male witnesses to the act of rape. 


 Unable to do so, many rape victims have been accused of 


 ''adultery,'' found guilty, and imprisoned.



 In March 2009 Chinese security forces literally beat to 


 death a Tibetan Buddhist monk for passing out leaflets 


 supporting the Dalai Lama. In China, the torture and 


 ''disappearance'' of Buddhist monks and nuns, and of 


 disfavored Muslims, Christians, and adherents of Falun Gong, 


 occur with inhuman regularity.



 In Saudi Arabia a senior cleric recently issued a fatwa 


 calling for the death of anyone arguing that men and women 


 could work together professionally. Such edicts emerge from a 


 Saudi interpretation of Islam called Wahhabism, a malevolent 


 political theology that continues to be exported from the 


 desert kingdom worldwide--including to the United States.



 In Iran, Shi'a Muslims critical of the regime's brand 


 of Shi'ism were executed for ''waging war against God.'' 


 Iranian Baha'is live in constant fear of imprisonment, 


 torture and death.



 All this makes for dismaying reading, but the section on 


 Iraq is particularly wrenching. In a country whose 


 opportunity for ordered liberty has been purchased with 


 American blood, Christians are being targeted and murdered. 


 Thousands among this ancient but rapidly shrinking Iraqi 


 minority have been forced to flee their homes and villages.



 The slow death of Christianity in Iraq is a tragedy about 


 which most Americans know very little. Had this story gotten 


 the attention it deserved from the mainstream press, perhaps 


 public opinion would have brought more pressure on the Bush 


 administration to do something about it. The Commission, long 


 a leader in this area, has provided powerful reasons for the 


 Obama administration to act.



 These and other tragic stories in the report provide a 


 human face to the alarming trends published by the Pew Forum 


 in its December 2009 analysis, Global Restrictions on 


 Religion. It found that 70 percent of the world's population 


 live in regimes where citizens are vulnerable to religious 


 persecution. As a humanitarian matter alone, surely this is 


 unacceptable to the American people and their elected 


 representatives.



 Of course, no one supports persecution. The question is 


 what can, and what ought, the United States do about it? Most 


 Americans want their government to try and relieve the 


 suffering of innocent human beings. But are there other 


 reasons for action, reasons that might lead to U.S. IRF 


 strategies that both reduce human suffering and further 


 American interests? More on this below.



 The Commission provides a host of practical, country-


 specific recommendations, for example, linking the 


 substantial U.S. economic assistance to Egypt to improvements 


 in that country's respect for religious freedom, or taking 


 steps to ensure that the Chinese hear a consistent message on 


 this issue from all U.S. officials (which is not now, nor 


 ever has been, the case).



 The report urges more pressure on the Saudi government to 


 do what it has already pledged to do--reform the religiously-


 bigoted text books that teach Saudi children the wrong 


 lessons, and make their ''religion and morals police'' more 


 accountable. This is the same Wahhabi-inspired ''police'' 


 agency that a few years ago prevented Saudi schoolgirls from 


 fleeing a burning school building because they were not 


 sufficiently covered. Fourteen girls perished in the flames.



 Importantly, the report adds to the Commission's ''watch 


 list'' two key Muslim democracies--Indonesia and Turkey. The 


 commissioners judge, quite accurately, that those nations, 


 while making strides in other areas critical to democracy, 


 are lagging in religious freedom. This matter is important to 


 the United States, not only because we want to help the 


 victims, but also because the success of democracy in these 


 countries is vital to our own security.



 This brings us to the ''other'' reasons for advancing 


 religious freedom in U.S. foreign policy. The Commission's 


 findings tend to confirm what scholarship in International 


 relations and sociology are strongly suggesting: democracy in 


 highly religious nations cannot consolidate and yield its 


 benefits--including economic opportunity, security, low 


 levels of religious extremism, and peace with other 


 democracies--without religious freedom. That is a lesson our 


 foreign policy elites must learn, not only that we may help 


 influence the democratic consolidation of allies Turkey and 


 Indonesia, but also to ensure that our investments of 


 blood and treasure in Iraq and Afghanistan succeed.



 Commission chairman Leonard Leo highlighted the connection 


 between religious freedom and national security in his 


 remarks: ''If the United States cares about human rights, if 


 we value international stability, if we are concerned about 


 countering extremism, freedom of religion . . . must be a 


 critical component of our nation's diplomacy, national 


 security and economic development objectives.''



 The Obama administration should pay close attention to 


 these words as it decides how to position its own religious 


 freedom policy. Whether it will do so or not is still 


 unclear. The report acknowledges that some good things are 


 beginning to happen inside the State Department. But it also 


 points to signs that IRF policy is being sidelined and may 


 assume an even lesser role than it has in previous 


 administrations.



 Decisions over the next several weeks will likely tell us 


 which path this President will take. Will he and Secretary 


 Hillary Clinton decide to retool and upgrade an IRF policy 


 that was neglected by prior administrations of both parties? 


 With proper leadership and training, U.S. religious freedom 


 strategies will not only help alleviate human suffering far 


 more effectively than they have to date, but they can also 


 help achieve the national security goals emphasized by 


 Chairman Leo.



 On the plus side, there are a few reasons for hope. Within 


 Foggy Bottom, a handful of officials are working hard to 


 convince skeptical senior Department leaders of what ought to 


 be obvious: the global resurgence of religion warrants 


 systemic training for foreign service officers in religions 


 and religious freedom. Our embassies abroad need expertise in 


 this area, just as they possess expertise in politics, 


 economics, or military affairs. This case has recently been 


 made by, among others, the Chicago Council on Global Affairs 


 in a series of recommendations to the administration.



 Unfortunately, as the Commission's report makes clear, many 


 within the administration are resisting the obvious. One 


 could easily conclude that Obama officials have no intention 


 of given priority to religious freedom in U.S. foreign 


 policy, if for no other reason than the President's extreme 


 lassitude in nominating an official to head the IRF 


 operation--the ambassador at large for international 


 religious freedom required by the IRF Act. Sixteen months 


 into the Obama presidency, with a bevy of envoys on issues 


 from outreach to Muslim communities to the closure of 


 Guantanamo long in place, the administration has not seen fit 


 to move on the IRF position.



 What the report does not mention is that the White House is 


 said to be on the verge of announcing the President's nominee 


 for ambassador at large. That person is reported to be a 


 pastor rather than a diplomat, and someone with no experience 


 in either foreign policy or religious freedom. Would the 


 President nominate someone to head his programs on Muslim 


 outreach, women's rights, disabilities, energy policy, 


 climate change, or any of the other issues that are 


 represented by senior envoys under his administration, if he 


 or she were not a seasoned expert in the field? Why would he 


 do so in the field of religious freedom?



 If this were not enough, the Commission also notes reports 


 that when the new IRF ambassador shows up for work, she will 


 have even less authority and less support than is the norm at 


 Foggy Bottom, and less than is required by the IRF Act 


 itself. Other ambassadors at large, such as the official in 


 charge of Global Women's Issues, work directly under 


 Secretary Clinton. The IRF ambassador, on the other hand, 


 will reportedly have four other officials between her and the 


 Secretary. And the office that has for 12 years served the 


 IRF ambassador (as required by the IRF Act) will now report 


 to someone else.



 Is the Democratic-controlled Congress paying attention? 


 Does it care that a law it passed unanimously under one 


 Democratic President is apparently being set aside by 


 another?



 One final point. The Commission report worries, correctly 


 in my view, that both the President and the Secretary of 


 State have taken to speaking publicly of ''freedom of 


 worship'' rather than ''religious freedom.'' Why should that 


 matter? Because ''worship'' is essentially a private 


 activity, far less threatening to authoritarian governments 


 or powerful majority religious communities than is religious 


 freedom. The latter encompasses both private worship and 


 public practice. It means protection for all religious 


 communities on an equal basis, including the right to engage 


 in the political life of a nation.





 If the Obama administration wanted to downgrade U.S. 


 international religious freedom policy, it might prepare the 


 way by rhetorical shift such as this.



 Is that what the administration is doing? It is too soon to 


 tell, but there are reasons to be concerned. In a follow-up 


 post I will explore why the President and Secretary of State 


 might in fact be acting to move IRF to the obscure margins of 


 U.S. foreign policy, and, if they are, why their actions 


 would reduce our nation's capacity to undermine religious 


 persecution, and harm the interests of the American people.
