---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3963, CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE  PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `d4f353aab4b64da4c335d0c9004e97e8`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 25 October 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 774 provides a closed rule for consideration of 
H.R. 3963, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act 
of 2007. The rule provides 1 hour of debate equally divided among and 
controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce and the chairman and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Ways and Means.

Mr. Speaker, I stand before you on the floor this afternoon with 
mixed emotions. I along with a majority of Members of the House are 
disappointed that we have to reintroduce a bill, passed by enormous 
bipartisan support, which would have provided millions of children 
across the Nation with access to health care.

The memory of what took place here on the House floor a week ago 
today will not soon be forgotten. On that day, we saw a few Members 
stand in lockstep with the President and with that deny health care 
coverage for millions of our children.

However, coupled with my disappointment, Mr. Speaker, is the 
consuming feeling of promise. I have hope for those children, along 
with a belief that those Members who were unable to break away from the 
President's mistaken rhetoric will stand for what is right today and 
vote to overwhelmingly pass this vital legislation.

I feel strongly that what motivated me and so many of my colleagues 
to come to Washington in the first place was the thought that on any 
day a vote could be held that would improve the lives of millions of 
people throughout our country. And that is exactly the chance that we 
have been given here today.

We are again granted the chance to vote for a bill that will advance 
medical care in this country, improve the health of our youngest and 
neediest citizens, and offer new hope for literally millions of 
children who would otherwise be left without either.

I think everyone listening today recognizes the reality of the 
situation we face. Should we not act, the health care of millions of 
children will be yanked away on November 16. Not providing health care 
to millions of children when given the opportunity to do so is 
appalling, but to strip away benefits from those who currently have 
them is simply indefensible.

Mr. Speaker, in our vote to expand SCHIP last month, we made a 
genuine dent in one of the most shameful inadequacies of our health 
care system: the lack of coverage for millions of America's children.

Congress created the State Child Health Insurance Program in 1997 
with broad bipartisan support, including some of my colleagues who now 
oppose it. As a result, over 6 million children currently have health 
care coverage that otherwise would not. In my home State of New York, 
over 400,000 children are enrolled, the second highest in the Nation.

The SCHIP reauthorization bill would preserve access to health care 
for 6 million children already enrolled in the program, while bringing 
desperately needed health care coverage to almost 4 million more 
children. As a result, in my home State of New York, an additional 
268,000 children who need it will have health care coverage. That means 
they will be able to get their immunizations before starting school, or 
see the dentist when they have a toothache.

This new bill also makes changes by phasing out childless adults 
after 1 year, and also puts in a cap on children whose parents' income 
are over 300 percent above the poverty level. The bill also requires 
States to develop plans and implement recommended best practices for 
addressing crowd-out.

Make no mistake, 43 Governors from red States and blue, 69 Members of 
the United States Senate, Democrats and Republicans, 273 of my 
colleagues from both sides of the aisle in the House, and 81 percent of 
the American public, including a large majority of Republicans, support 
our bipartisan expansion of SCHIP.

Yet, presented with this overwhelming support from all sides, the 
President decided to dust off his veto pen and with it deny millions of 
children access to health care. In spite of the unquestionable benefits 
and in spite of the overwhelming popularity and accomplishments of this 
program, SCHIP is under attack.

We saw reprehensible smear attacks on families who were brought into 
the public eye to showcase the benefits of the program. In the face of 
the lifesaving chance that was bestowed on the family due to this 
program, the harshest rhetoric was not cast against the bill, but 
against this family, including the children.

We saw persons go to the home of one of the families and harass them 
in public, talk radio and blogs made wild and audacious accusations, 
and we even saw staffers on Capitol Hill who clearly intended to assist 
this fabricated, coldhearted smear campaign.

It is simply beyond comprehension to me that many are willing to 
score political points by denigrating our Nation's children, 
particularly those who owe their very lives to this program.

But the American people saw through the attacks. They understood that 
the health of our Nation's children is simply not worth scoring a few 
political points.

Mr. Speaker, the President chastises the $35 billion bill, which is 
fully paid for, as ''too expensive.'' And with the same breath, he 
seeks an additional $190 billion for the Iraq war, all of which is at 
the expense of the taxpayer.

This is simply unconscionable when you realize the amount of money it 
takes to provide the health care for 10 million children for an entire 
year is what we spend in Iraq in just 41 days. We need to get our 
priorities straight.

I am enormously proud of the accomplishments we have done this year, 
from education to health care, but nothing means more to us than SCHIP. 
The American people expect us to tackle this health challenge before 
us. Last week we fell short of overturning the veto by just 13 votes. 
To those Members who know that providing health care to vulnerable 
children is the right thing to do, I say to you: Join with Democrats 
and Republicans and with the American people in passing the bill today.



Healthy children make a healthy Nation, Mr. Speaker. I hope every 
Member takes a long and hard look at the bill that we are presenting 
today and sees not just the words and the numbers, but the faces of 10 
million children whose fate they hold in their very hands.

It is time to put principles before politics. It is time to stand in 
defiance of misplaced priorities. And it is time to vote with our 
Nation's children and provide them with the health care they need and 
deserve.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.