---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008-- MOTION TO PROCEED
## `d50d6da9e007f3a93b11354ff4ed8388`
`Mr. DURBIN — 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, tomorrow morning, the national debate on 
the war in Iraq will continue on the floor of the Senate. The debate 
has now reached the stage where we are talking about funding for the 
war. This war, in its fifth year, has claimed almost 3,900 of our best 
and bravest soldiers. Some 30,000 have been injured, more than 10,000 
with amputations, burns, and traumatic brain injuries, serious injuries 
that they will struggle with for a long time.

Earlier this week, I watched a television documentary. James 
Gandolfini, who has been in many movies, television documentaries, and 
shows, interviewed disabled veterans. I believe it was titled ''Alive 
Day Memories.'' It was a story of how each of these disabled vets from 
Iraq recalled the day when they believed they had been killed and their 
lives lost but somehow survived miraculously. They are extraordinary 
stories of courage, emotional stories about what they went through, and 
heartbreaking stories about some of the injuries they brought home. 
They were victims of traumatic brain injury--a young man with a video 
showing him in his youth with all the strength and vitality one could 
ask for, now struggling from a wheelchair to speak and to look forward 
to a life where he can walk and be anywhere near normal; his mother by 
his side holding his hand to calm him when the emotions overcame him.

There were amputees talking about returning home. Many of them 
worried about whether they would be accepted. There were some 
wonderful, heartwarming stories of families who stood by them through 
this whole struggle and are with them even to this day.

There was a beautiful young woman who was a lieutenant in the Army in 
her mid-twenties, red hair, as pretty as can be. A rocket-propelled 
grenade went off right next to her. It blew off her right arm and right 
shoulder. She showed extraordinary bravery in talking about what she 
had been through and putting her life together, and then struggled for 
words when she talked about whether she would ever have a family, 
whether she would ever have a child who would look at her as a mother.


I watched that show and thought about my role as a Senator, and I 
thought about this war. I was 1 of 23 who voted against it in the 
Senate. It seems so long ago, 5 years. A vote that was at the time 
politically hard, but a vote that I never ever questioned or regretted.

Now 5 years later, here we are still--still--with these stories, this 
handful of stories we saw on the documentary just representing a small 
percentage of the heroism and suffering of this war.

I have had the opportunity to speak with this President directly 
about these men and women. I have talked with him about Eric Edmundson 
from North Carolina, a young man, a victim of traumatic brain injury 
who has become close to me through his family and visited with me just 
this last week in my office in Washington. I have seen his family up 
close, and I know the extraordinary love they have for their son and 
father of their granddaughter. The sacrifices they have made for him, 
his wife and baby daughter, are extraordinary.

We have a Capitol guide--I wish I knew his name, and I will make it a 
point of finding it out--who makes a special effort to offer tours late 
at night for disabled veterans from Walter Reed. I run into him in the 
corridors after everybody is gone, and it is dark outside. He is giving 
special, personalized tours to veterans and their families. He always 
stops and introduces them and asks if we will pose for a picture. Of 
course, it is the least we can do, and we agree to do it.

He came by last week to Senator Harry Reid's office and brought a 
young man from New Jersey. I believe his name was Ray. Ray had his 
young wife and beautiful little daughter with him, Kelsey. Kelsey was 
about 16 months old, 17 months old. She was running everywhere. She was 
just a bundle of energy and happy as could be, as her mother worried 
she might break something.

Ray was in a wheelchair. He had lost both of his legs and lost a few 
fingers on his left hand. He had served in Iraq. He came back and 
considered himself lucky. He talked about what he was going to do from 
this point forward. So many stories of bravery.

Tomorrow morning we will have a vote, and it will be our chance to 
speak as a Senate about this war. Some people will view it as just 
another routine vote, predictable outcome, and be on with their lives 
and head home for Thanksgiving. But for me, it is a chance, just a 
small chance, to return to a debate which I know consumes the hearts 
and minds of so many Americans.

I can't tell you how many people I run into, particularly the 
families of these soldiers, who want this war to


end. I want to, too. And tomorrow we will have a chance to do that.

Tomorrow we will have two votes. Senator McConnell is going to try to 
move a spending bill which will provide $70 billion for this war in 
Iraq with no strings attached. He will hand over this money, if he has 
his way, to President Bush, and we know what the outcome would be. The 
war would continue unchanged until this President walks out of office 
January 20, 2009. That is unacceptable to me, and I think it is 
unacceptable to many in this Chamber.

We have to change this war. We have to start bringing these troops 
home. We have to tell the Iraqis: We have given you as much time as you 
could reasonably ask for to build your country and govern your country 
and defend your country.

This morning's Washington Post has a front-page headline: ''Iraqis 
Wasting An Opportunity, U.S. Officers Say.'' Wasting an opportunity. It 
is an opportunity created by the lives and blood of our soldiers, those 
who were there dying on the ground to give the Iraqis a chance, and our 
military leaders have said they are wasting an opportunity.




 Brig. Gen. John F. Campbell, deputy commanding general of 


 the 1st Cavalry Division, complained last week that Iraqi 


 politicians appear out of touch with everyday citizens. ''The 


 ministers, they don't get out,'' he said. ''They don't know 


 what the hell is going on on the ground.'' Soldiers standing, 


 fighting, and dying while these political ministers twiddle 


 their thumbs and waste their time--that is unacceptable. I 


 cannot imagine how we can continue to ask our soldiers to 


 walk into that hell hole in Iraq and risk their lives and 


 come home severely injured while these Iraqi politicians 


 cannot do the most basic things to put their country 


 together.


If Senator McConnell has his way tomorrow, we will hand this 
President $70 billion and say: Mr. President, more of the same; just 
keep it coming. I will not be part of that.

There is a second choice. Senator Harry Reid, our Democratic majority 
leader, will offer a chance to provide $50 billion to this President 
with the understanding that within 30 days, American soldiers start 
coming home in a meaningful way, with a goal that by the end of next 
year, all of our combat forces will be out of Iraq. There will be some 
remaining. It would not be a complete cutoff, but they will be there 
for specific reasons--to fight counterterrorism and to protect 
America's remaining civilian and military personnel, to train the 
Iraqis with a limited responsibility because we put so much into this 
so far.

I think that is the reasonable way to go. That bill we will vote on 
will also say that the President cannot send military units overseas 
until they are combat ready unless he certifies they are combat ready 
or gives good reason why they do not have to be combat ready.

I have been there. I have talked with these soldiers. Fifteen months 
is too long. We had a briefing just the other day from one of the 
leaders in the Marine Corps. He conceded that point. Fifteen-month 
deployments are too long to maintain the morale, to maintain the 
readiness, to separate these soldiers from their families for 15 
months. He said something that will stick with me.


He said: Can you imagine what goes through your mind when you are a 
soldier on the ground in Iraq at Christmas, realizing you are going to 
be there for another Christmas? That is what these soldiers are facing. 
That is what this President has put us into, a situation where we have 
pushed our brave men and women to the limit.

Oh, support our troops and love our soldiers. Well, I do. I want to 
support our troops by bringing them home as soon as possible in an 
orderly, responsible way. Not what Senator McConnell wants: to let this 
President continue with 187,000 American soldiers currently on the 
ground and no end in sight. That is unacceptable.

Some will say it is just another vote and nobody will notice. Maybe 
that is so. But for those of us who believe very strongly this war 
needs to come to an end, tomorrow morning is an opportunity. I hope the 
American people who can follow this debate through C-SPAN, who can 
follow our votes by referencing Congress on the Internet, will take a 
look at that rollcall tomorrow morning and will judge which Senators 
from which States want to change this policy in Iraq and see this war 
come to an end. We will have our chance tomorrow morning. It is a 
chance we should not miss.

For all those brave men and women who have served us so well in Iraq 
and those who may be called tomorrow, we owe them a ''yes'' vote on the 
Reid cloture motion tomorrow, and I will be voting that way.

I yield the floor.