---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `d511f1854d00239da53967aaae46660f`
`Ms. ESHOO — 28 July 2010`

---


Ms. ESHOO. Madam Speaker, I have grave concerns about the legislation 
before the House to provide $37.1 billion for ongoing military 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Our total war spending in Iraq and 
Afghanistan including the funding provided by this bill will exceed $1 
trillion. Yet this spending comes without a viable exit strategy for 
the conflict in Afghanistan which is the longest war in our nation's 
history.

The recent publication of tens of thousands of leaked field reports 
on Afghanistan confirm what we already know: Our continued troop 
presence is alienating the local population, corruption is rampant in 
the Afghan government, the Taliban population is stronger than ever, 
and our Pakistani partners are unreliable at best.

Afghanistan is known as the graveyard of empires for a reason. No one 
since Ghengis Khan--not Alexander the Great, not the Persians, not the 
Ottomans, not the British, nor the Soviets--has been able to succeed in 
this troubled country. Some have said the definition of insanity is 
continuing to do the same thing over and over again and hoping for a 
different result. We should learn from those who came before us.

Madam Speaker, without an exit strategy, approving billions more of 
hard-earned taxpayer dollars for the war in Afghanistan is difficult 
enough to justify. But this cost pales in comparison to the loss of 
American lives. June


was the deadliest month in the war thus far, when 102 Americans made 
the ultimate sacrifice.

It is also hard to justify supporting this legislation with billions 
more for war when the Senate stripped out $10 billion for an Education 
Jobs fund that the House provided to help our school districts retain 
and develop their teaching workforce. I cannot cast a vote for war 
funding when we can't find the resources to invest in our schools and 
students.

Most importantly, the President said our mission in Afghanistan must 
be definable and winnable. I believe it is neither, and I will vote 
against funding for it.
