# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `d52443775cd9b520c013323edce19c41`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 28 September 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, echoing off the comments of my 
colleagues, I go back to the Iraq Study Group--some of the best that we 
have in America--and the vision they set out in their recommendations, 
after they spent a year, saying: We have this huge problem in Iraq. 
What is the best way that we move forward?

They came up with 79 recommendations on how we ought to move forward 
in Iraq. The heart of the recommendations is set forth in a letter that 
was sent as part of that report by Congressman Hamilton and former 
Secretary James Baker. What they said is this, and I quote from the 
report language that is also included in our legislation. It says:




 Our political leaders must build a bipartisan approach to 


 bring a responsible conclusion to what is now a lengthy and 


 costly war. Our country deserves a debate that prizes 


 substance over rhetoric and a policy that is adequately 


 funded and sustainable. The President and Congress must work 


 together. Our leaders must be candid and forthright with the 


 American people in order to win their support.


It was in that vein that Democrats and Republicans came together to 
cosponsor the legislation on the implementation of the recommendations. 
I thank them for having stood up, in the sponsorship of the 
legislation. They include Senator Mark Pryor from Arkansas, Senator Bob 
Casey from Pennsylvania, Senator Blanche Lincoln from Arkansas, Senator 
Bill Nelson from Florida, Senator Mary Landrieu from Louisiana, Senator 
Claire McCaskill from Missouri, Senator Kent Conrad from North Dakota, 
Senator Tom Carper from Delaware. These are all good Senators who want 
to figure out a way forward in this issue that befuddles America today. 
But it wasn't just Democrats who came with us to say we have to find a 
new way forward in Iraq. There were Republicans who came forward and 
joined us. We saw Senator Lamar Alexander coming to the floor time and 
time again, wanting to fashion a new way forward. He was joined by 
Senator Bob Bennett, Senator Judd Gregg, Senator Susan Collins, Senator 
John Sununu, Senator Pete Domenici, Senator Arlen Specter, and Senator 
Norm Coleman. At the end of the day, there were 17 cosponsors for this 
legislation which only 10 months ago everybody would have come together 
and said this is the right way to go.

We remember those days before the Iraq Study Group recommendations 
came out last December when it was highly anticipated. The President 
even delayed a speech and his own set of recommendations until he heard 
from the Iraq Study Group. Most people said this is a very thoughtful 
and good way forward.

I wanted to come to the floor today and say a few things about the 
legislation. It is legislation which would have set forth a new state 
of law with respect to Iraq. Yes, we have had a tough time in the 
Congress, coming forward with legislation that can muster 60 votes in 
the Senate, so not much legislation has been passed with respect to 
creating a new direction for Iraq. Our legislation would have made it a 
statement of policy--which in essence is a statement of law. This is 
not a sense of the Senate, this is a statement of law. This would have 
been the law of the land with respect to the U.S. efforts concerning 
Iraq. I wish to review a few provisions of the legislation.

The first of those has to do with the sense of the Congress that we 
move forward with a major diplomatic surge in the region. That is a 
sense of Congress because, appropriately, that belongs with the 
President and with the State Department, in terms of what we have to do 
to reassert the international involvement to bring about a long-term 
solution to the problem we face in Iraq. Similar to most of my 
colleagues who traveled to Iraq in the last few years, I always wonder: 
Where are the neighbors? Why aren't they more involved in dealing with 
the issue that is so vitally important to the populations of all those 
in the Middle East? Where are they?

Some of them are sitting on their hands. Some of them who are not 
sitting on their hands are actually helping foment the violence we see 
in Iraq today, whether that is Iran or whether that is Syria. What we 
need to do is have a diplomatic surge to move forward to help bring the 
world together to find a solution that will work to bring about 
stability in Iraq. We set forth that as a sense of the Senate.

In addition to the sense of the Senate, which has some 24 measures, 
all of which were taken out of the Iraq Study Group recommendations, we 
also include the statements of law. Those are the statements of policy. 
The first and most important of those statements of policy is in 
section 5 of the legislation. That section says ''it shall be''--''it 
shall be.'' Not it could be, not it might be, not it ought to be 
considered. It says: It shall be the policy of the United States to 
move forward to a changed mission--to a changed mission


from one of combat to one of training, equipping, advising and 
providing support for security and military forces in Iraq and to 
support counterterrorism operations in the country of Iraq. So we do a 
mission change with this legislation.

Next, also the statement of law, we call for the strengthening of the 
U.S. military. I think there is a broad, bipartisan consensus that what 
has happened in the war in Iraq and in Afghanistan is that our military 
has been strained. Our military has been strained because of the 
humongous effort that has gone into prosecuting the war in those two 
places over the last 5/1/2/ years. So we, in our legislation, follow 
the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, requiring the 
strengthening of the U.S. military.

Third, a statement of policy with respect to the police and criminal 
justice system in Iraq. On several of the codels I have taken to Iraq, 
one of the things that is absolutely phenomenal to me is that there is 
not a criminal justice system that today is working in Iraq. So the bad 
guys, when they are caught--what ends up happening to them? Are they 
prosecuted in the way that we would prosecute bad guys here in the 
United States of America? Is there a system of courts that is up and 
functioning? The police system, especially the national police in Iraq, 
is dysfunctional. It is infiltrated by members of the militias. Those 
are some of the findings of the GAO, as well as some of the findings in 
General Jones' recent report. So one of the things we require as a 
statement of policy is that the police and criminal justice system in 
Iraq be transformed.

Also in our legislation we required the statement of policy on the 
oil sector in Iraq. We know the Iraqis need to come up with a 
reformation of their law and with changes to their law that will 
require the equitable distribution of the oil resources in Iraq.

There are other measures here that are set forth in the legislation. 
One that I will refer to briefly has to do with conditions and the 
support of the United States in Iraq. This is section 11 of our 
legislation. In section 11 of our legislation we say: It shall be the 
policy of the United States to condition continued U.S. political, 
military and economic support for Iraq upon the demonstration by the 
Government of Iraq of sufficient political will and the making of 
substantial progress toward achieving the milestones that are described 
in that legislation. So the conditioning of the U.S. support for Iraq 
is based on them taking on the responsibility for achieving the 
milestones that were set forth in the Iraq Study Group's 
recommendation.

Those are major changes. I believe this legislation--although there 
is other legislation here that I have supported, including legislation 
that called for timelines with respect to the reduction of troops--this 
legislation also is very good and very substantive legislation.

Let me essentially sum up what this legislation would have done. The 
first thing it would have done is call for the mission change. I think 
more and more I hear a chorus rising in the Senate, in many of the 
pieces of legislation that we have seen, that it is time for us to 
change the mission from one of combat to one of assistance; from one of 
combat, where we are policing a sectarian civil war today, to one of 
training and equipping and counterterrorism within Iraq. That change of 
mission is something we ought to be able to accomplish in the Senate.

Second, the diplomatic surge. We know without the diplomatic surge we 
are not going to be able to succeed in Iraq. We know we need to have 
the neighborhood, the region, much more involved in trying to bring 
about stability in Iraq.

Third, the conditioning of the U.S. support on progress and on the 
milestones set forth there.

I think, regarding these broad agreements, we need to keep pressuring 
the Iraqis to move forward to adopt those, not only to adopt, implement 
the milestones and benchmarks they themselves came up with.

Let me conclude by saying this debate is not yet over. There are 
still groups, numbers of Senators, who are trying to figure out whether 
we can bring enough of a bipartisan way forward that will help us 
change the mission in Iraq. I look forward to working with both my 
Democratic and Republican colleagues, seeing whether we can in fact 
achieve that end.

At the end of the day, there is a lot at stake in this issue for all 
of us in America. When one thinks, first of all, about the fact that we 
are approaching 4,000 of our best, our bravest men and women who have 
died in this war in Iraq, and we know as a fact we have 30,000 American 
men and women in uniform who have been grievously injured in that 
nation; we know the fiscal consequence of this war is now $750 billion 
and rising--expectations now are that the war costs will be at $1 
trillion--we as a Senate and Congress have a responsibility, in my 
view, to address this issue.

I hope, in the days ahead, as we address the Defense appropriations 
legislation, as well as the supplemental which the President has 
requested--additional money for the ongoing effort, the so-called 
bridge funding--that we can revisit this issue and see whether we can 
come together to try to forge a new way forward in Iraq.

I yield the floor.
