# HEALTH CARE
## `d5260dcdd0c5066bc0eceaeb00352046`
`Mr. WYDEN — 7 September 2007`

---


Mr. WYDEN. I am going to read one paragraph at the outset of the 
article:




 Since a new system took effect here last year, cost growth 


 is projected to fall this year to about 3 [percent] after 


 inflation from 4.5 [percent] in 2006. Waiting lists are 


 shrinking, and private health insurers are coming up with 


 innovative ways to care for the sick.


What struck Senator Bennett and I is, there is an awful lot of 
comparison between our bipartisan legislation and the experience of the 
Dutch. For example, both in Holland and in the United States under our 
proposal, there would be a requirement that individuals would have to 
purchase their own health insurance. Insurers under our proposal, as in 
Holland, would not be able to discriminate against individuals who have 
had illnesses. We saw in the movie ''Sicko'' that wonderful scene with 
the ''Star Wars'' music describing all the various conditions that 
individuals might have that would exclude them from insurance coverage. 
That would be illegal under what Senator Bennett and I are advocating. 
It is illegal, according to the Wall Street Journal, in the 
Netherlands.

Finally, in the Netherlands and under our legislation, there is a 
sharp and specific focus on prevention and wellness. The tragedy in our 
country is, we don't have health care at all. What we largely have is 
sick care. Medicare shows this probably more clearly than anything 
else. Medicare Part A will pay huge expenses for senior citizens' 
hospital bills. The check goes from the Government to the hospital. But 
Medicare Part B, on the other hand, will pay for virtually nothing for 
prevention and keeping people well. Senator Bennett and I seek to 
change that. For the first time under our legislation, Medicare would 
be authorized to discount the premiums for seniors who lower their 
blood pressure, lower their cholesterol, practice good health in their 
individual lives. I am struck by this Wall Street Journal article, 
where insurers in Holland are adopting much the same kind of approach. 
The article states on the front page that insurers now are offering 
discounts to customers who buy low cholesterol versions of yogurt, 
butter, and milk.

The point is, worldwide the message is getting out. Prevention works. 
Wellness, a new focus on personal responsibility, and keeping our 
citizens healthy makes sense. They are doing it in Holland. The Wall 
Street Journal describes the positive benefits there. I and Senator 
Bennett, along with our cosponsors, Senators Bill Nelson, Lamar 
Alexander, and Judd Gregg, are trying to build a bipartisan coalition 
in the Senate to do exactly the same.

Our legislation, the Healthy Americans Act, would require that 
everyone not on Medicare or in the military would have to purchase 
private health insurance. But to make sure that is doable, we fix the 
broken marketplace. Under our legislation, private insurance companies 
wouldn't be able to cherry-pick. They wouldn't be able to take just 
healthy people and send sick people over to Government programs more 
fragile than they are. They couldn't discriminate against those with 
illnesses. They would have to spread risks through large groups of 
people. Right now essentially much of the private insurance business is 
about


filtering out those people who have illnesses and finding a way to 
cover just those who are healthy. Our legislation would change that.

We also take critical steps to make sure that if you are going to 
require that people purchase coverage, you have generous subsidies for 
folks with modest incomes. What Senator Bennett and I propose--and 
apparently they are doing something along these lines in Holland--is to 
subsidize those up to 100 percent of poverty completely and for those 
between 100 percent of poverty and 400 percent of poverty, there would 
be a partial subsidy. The most generous subsidies of any program 
anywhere in our country would be offered under this legislation that we 
are offering, with Senators Alexander, Gregg, and Nelson of Florida.

How do we pay for it? The Lewin Group, which is kind of the gold 
standard for looking at health policies, scored the administration's 
approaches, many of the States and ours and said we can find a lot of 
the savings under our legislation through an administrative process 
that establishes that once you sign up in Ohio, once you sign up in 
Oregon or anywhere else in the country, you are in for life. You don't 
have to sign up again and again and again. In my State, my guess is it 
is very similar to the situation in Ohio, if you are on Medicaid, there 
is something like 31 or 32 categories of coverage. A poor person has to 
try to squeeze themselves into one of those boxes in order to get 
coverage. It is degrading to the poor and a big waste of money.

What Senator Bennett and I have offered is a one-stop process so you 
sign up once, and everything else from that point on is essentially 
accomplished through the magical world of electronic transfers. An 
individual's contribution would be taken out of their paycheck while 
they are working. Ours is fully funded.

There is an opportunity for bipartisan cooperation, particularly 
should the Bush administration want to assist in this effort. For 
example, every single economist who has come before the Finance 
Committee, before the Budget Committee, has talked about the Tax Code 
as it relates to health care disproportionately favoring the most 
affluent and rewarding inefficiency at the same time. To put it another 
way, if you are a high-flying CEO in the United States, if you want to 
go out and get a designer smile put on your face, you can write off the 
cost of that service on your taxes. But if you are a hard-working woman 
without any health plan and a local furniture store, you get nothing. 
So I and Senator Bennett redirect the current tax expenditures. They 
are the biggest part of private health care spending.

The Lewin Group establishes in their analysis of our report that 
would ensure we could expand coverage over the next few years without 
any additional cost to taxpayers. The Lewin Group has said the proposal 
now being sponsored by five Members of the Senate would slow the rate 
of growth in health care spending by $1.5 trillion.

I know the distinguished Presiding Officer has a great interest in 
health. We are so pleased he is here because we have worked together on 
these issues often. It is clear this is the premier domestic issue of 
our time. A combination of today's demographics with a rapidly aging 
population, escalating costs, the huge increase in chronic illness, our 
current health care system is not sustainable. It is not one we can put 
on automatic pilot and say: Let us run it this way for years and years 
in the future.

The tragedy is with all the wonderful doctors and hospitals and 
nurses in Ohio and Oregon, all across the country, we are spending 
enough money on health care to do this job. We are simply not spending 
it in the right places.

To give an idea of how out of whack American health care spending is, 
for the amount of money we are spending today, $2.3 trillion, 300 
million of us in the country, you divide 300 million into $2.3 
trillion, and you could go out and hire a doctor for every seven 
families in the United States and say: Doctor, your job will be for 
this year to take care of seven families, and we will pay you $200,000 
a year.

My experience, I say to the Acting President pro tempore, is that 
when I bring this up to physicians at home in Oregon, they say: Ron, 
where do I go to get my seven families? It sounds pretty good to be 
able to get back into the business of practicing medicine again and 
advocating for my patients rather than going through all this paperwork 
and bureaucracy and redtape.

So we are spending enough on health care today. We are not spending 
it in the right places. That is what they have begun to change in 
Holland, according to the Wall Street Journal this week. That is what I 
and Senator Bennett and our colleagues on both sides of the aisle are 
seeking to do in the Senate.

One last comment, Mr. President. I know there is a hectic schedule 
for all Senators, and certainly the Senator from Ohio.

The question is whether there should be action now or the Congress 
should simply wait for another Presidential election. Here are the 
consequences of waiting for several more years. The Census Bureau 
reported last week that 2.2 million additional Americans were without 
health insurance between 2005 and 2006. If this Congress waits a couple 
of years more, we can expect that number to increase and the number 
without coverage in this country to hemorrhage further.

That is a moral abomination, No. 1; and it is going to be costly to 
taxpayers, No. 2, because those people very often will have to go to 
hospital emergency rooms to get their coverage. Of course, those bills 
will be passed on to businesses in Ohio and Oregon and across the 
country and to our taxpayers. So the costs of delay are very direct and 
immediate.

Second, with respect to employer-based coverage, the new numbers 
indicate the number of employers offering coverage has now fallen below 
60 percent. It is pretty easy to see why, with these double-digit 
premium hikes, Price Waterhouse says health costs are going to average, 
this year, a little over 11 percent. A lot of our employers want to do 
the right thing by their workers and simply cannot offer coverage.

If this Congress decides to stand down on the question of overhauling 
health care and say, ''Let's just wait until 2009,'' you are going to 
see more businesses in Ohio, in Oregon, and across this country lose 
coverage. I do not think we ought to sit by and just let our coverage 
continue to melt away along the lines of these statistics that I 
mentioned.

Finally, on the question of prevention and what Holland is doing, and 
what we are seeking to do in the Healthy Americans Act, there is a very 
significant cost with respect to chronic illness as it relates to doing 
nothing to change our policies. The new numbers with respect to chronic 
illness indicate that in 31 States over the last year obesity has risen 
once again; of course, there is a direct link here between heart and 
stroke and diabetes and so many illnesses. Not one State--not one--
experienced a decline.

So if the Congress says: Well, we will pass on overhauling American 
health care until 2009, we can expect to have missed another 
opportunity--yet another opportunity--for doing something about 
enacting health care policies that put a new focus on prevention and 
wellness.

So this question of waiting for 2 more years and saying: Let's just 
spend our time looking at what the various candidates for President 
from both political parties are saying about health care--certainly it 
is getting a lot of attention in terms of debates on TV and all of us 
trying to look at the various merits of the candidates' proposals; and 
they are good people; and they have good suggestions--but I want to 
make it clear to the Senate there are very real costs of waiting to fix 
health care.

I think the question of fixing health care is so urgent we ought to 
get on with it, and we ought to get on with it in a bipartisan way, 
which is what I and Senator Bennett are trying to do. We are very proud 
to have been able to get the support of business and labor leaders.

When we offered the initial proposal, Andy Stern, the president of 
the Service Employees International Union, stood on one side of me, and 
Steve Burd, the CEO of the Safeway company, a very large Fortune 500 
company, stood on the other side. We had individuals such as Ron 
Pollack, of


Families USA, and advocates for compassionate end-of-life health care 
with us as well.

The last time Congress looked at this--and the Acting President pro 
tempore, I think, remembers this--during a period in the early 1990s, 
the people who stood with me for the kickoff of the Healthy Americans 
Act were spending millions to pretty much beat each other's brains out. 
That was the last time the Congress and the President, during the 
Clinton years, debated health care.

So this is a different climate, certainly a different climate for 
businesses in Ohio and Oregon. What I hear from businesses at home--
unlike in 1993, the Clinton years, when they said: We cannot afford 
fixing health care--they are now saying: We cannot afford the status 
quo. That is why they are joining Senator Bennett and I and others on 
these proposals.

My hope is as Congress looks at the evidence, whether it is the Wall 
Street Journal reporting on promising developments--very often people 
think of Europe and socialized countries--the Wall Street Journal is 
putting on the front page of the paper--a publication that clearly 
favors private health care coverage--an example of a country in Europe 
where they seem to be making great progress.

So as we devise our own system, one that is uniquely American, I and 
Senator Bennett want to work with every Member of the Senate--I think I 
can speak for Senators Bill Nelson, Lamar Alexander, Judd Gregg, and 
the others we have been talking to--that we think this is the premier 
domestic issue of our time. Certainly, the conflict in Iraq is the 
premier national security issue. But the premier domestic issue at home 
is fixing American health care.

I think based on the evidence that comes in every day, we know what 
needs to be done. Now the question is making sure there is the 
political will to go forward. I look forward to working with the Acting 
President pro tempore, who has a great interest in these matters, and 
all our colleagues.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.