# PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE COOPERATION ACT OF 2007
## `d5390b870cc366b79474ceb58e1b7f0e`
`Mr. REID — 14 May 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Because we had so much notice on this, I thought it was the 
McCain tax holiday amendment. But, no, it is the McCain effort to 
change the Jim Webb bipartisan GI bill of rights because it is too 
generous. So this idea is about the same as the gas tax holiday. He 
doesn't like the GI bill of rights because it is too generous. Now I am 
wondering if we want to debate Iraq on this bill because we are happy 
to do it. We are happy to debate an intractable civil war that is 
costing the American people $5,000 a second every day of the week, 
every week of the month, every month of the year, $5,000 a second. No 
weekends off, no holidays, $5,000 a second of borrowed money.

Do we want to debate the Iraq war? Is that what we want to do on this 
bill that was set aside to deal with firefighters, police officers, and 
first responders?

Those people came to my office today, some in uniform, some in plain 
clothes, because that is what they do. Some of them wear their uniform 
to work every day. Some do other work so they can't wear the uniform. 
They are


undercover. But no--I apologize to everyone. I thought we were on the 
McCain tax holiday. But, no, we are now on the GI bill of rights McCain 
effort because it is too generous.

The bipartisan bill of Jim Webb that he wrote himself, bipartisan in 
nature, is too generous according to John McCain. We are happy to 
debate that. If that is what this body needs to do is to start the 
supplemental debate a week early, we can do that too.

I note the absence of a quorum.