---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `d53f8eb07e751be8d61f2fb5611f731c`
`Mr. BYRD — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. BYRD. I thank the Chair.

Mr. President, I am a student of history and a firm believer in 
applying the lessons of history to present planning and to future 
planning. There is no profit--none--in making the same mistakes over 
and over. There is no future--none--in building on a foundation of 
shifting sand. Our military planners and our Afghanistan policy 
analysts, as well as Members of this Senate, would do well to spend 
some time considering the history, the geography, and the cultures of 
Afghanistan.

Throughout the long centuries, Afghanistan's geopolitical value has 
been its location along the great Silk Road that carried both trade 
goods and armies between Europe and Asia through the forbidding Hindu 
Kush mountains. Afghanistan has limited natural resources. Afghanistan 
has a climate and a geography that produces very little for export. So 
the fiercely--and I say fiercely--independent tribes that populate this 
harsh and barren land have long earned a living instead from the goods 
and the armies that travel across it.

Tribesmen have used the dry rocky plains and the steep, bare, cavern-
riddled mountains to great advantage--to extort both armies and traders 
for security and shelter or as a base from which to raid.

In weary succession, rulers and nations have witnessed their dreams 
of conquest and their dreams of empire in Afghanistan dashed. From 
Alexander the Great in 326 BC, to Genghis Kahn in the 13th century, to 
the British in the 19th century, to the Russians in the 20th century, 
no invading army has ever conquered Afghanistan, earning it the 
sobriquet ''Graveyard of Empires,'' the graveyard of empires or, to say 
it another way, graveyard of foreigners.

In one horrific example, in 1842, the British lost more than 16,000 
troops and civilians in a single 110-mile retreat from Kabul to 
Jalalabad. History tells us--and we had better listen to history--that 
Afghanistan does not take kindly to foreign intervention. Yet--now, get 
this--here we are discussing a proposed counterinsurgency strategy that 
would vastly increase the U.S. presence in Afghanistan in the vain hope 
of spawning the establishment of a Western-style, modern democracy and 
economy in a land that in many areas and in many ways is still frozen 
in the time of Alexander the Great.

As a junior United States Senator I traveled to Afghanistan in the 
1960s--way back there in the 1960s. Yes, I went to Afghanistan in the 
1960s and, let me say to you, it was an eye-opening experience. Men, 
human beings, were treated like beasts of burden, actually pulling 
carts like oxen. Yes, I saw it. Living conditions were primitive. 
Corruption was widespread. While life in Afghanistan's cities has 
changed somewhat in the intervening decades, many


of the scenes that I see in the news still look very familiar to me. 
The fundamental changes that are wished for by some NATO and U.S. 
planners, particularly in the least developed rural areas where the 
tribal theocratic Taliban rule is most entrenched, would certainly be a 
long shot--and I mean that, a long shot--and likely will be a long shot 
and quite unwelcome.

What is really at stake for the United States in Afghanistan? We all 
know that Afghanistan is not a threat to us militarily. The Taliban is 
not a threat to us militarily. Al-Qaida, however, is a demonstrated 
threat to us, with ambitions and a philosophy that must--must--keep us 
vigilant. But the link between al-Qaida and Afghanistan is a tenuous 
link, one based only on the temporary expediency of location, an 
expediency that has already been replaced as the al-Qaida leadership 
has moved and may move again. Building a western style Democratic state 
in an Afghanistan that is equipped with a large military and police 
force and a functioning economy based on something other than opium 
poppies may or may not deny al-Qaida a safe haven there again. It will, 
however, guarantee that the United States--that is us--must invest 
large numbers--not just a few, large numbers--of troops and many 
billions of dollars in Afghanistan for many--not just a few, many--
years to come, energy and funds that might otherwise go toward 
fueling--in other words building and strengthening--our own economic 
recovery, better educating our children or expanding access to health 
care for more of our own people, and yet there are many here in this 
body, many here in the Senate who believe that we should proceed with 
such a folly in Afghanistan.

I am not one of them. But there are many, I say, here in the Senate, 
who believe that we should proceed with such a folly in Afghanistan. 
During a time of record deficits, some actually continue to suggest 
that the United States should sink hundreds of billions of borrowed 
dollars into Afghanistan, effectively turning our backs on our own 
substantial domestic needs, all the while deferring the costs and 
deferring the problems for future generations to address. Our national 
security interests lie in defeating--no, I go further, in destroying 
al-Qaida. Until we take that and only that mission seriously, we risk 
adding the United States to the long, long list of nations whose best 
laid plans have died on the cold, barren, rocky slopes of that far off 
country, Afghanistan.

I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.