---
---

# PAYING TRIBUTE TO STAFF SERGEANT SHANNON M. SMITH
## `d549ee1fe1d0ae421958c3116cb44956`
`Mr. JORDAN of Ohio — 25 September 2009`

---


Mr. JORDAN of Ohio. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of 
a brave young soldier, one of American's fallen heroes, Staff Sergeant 
Shannon Smith of Ohio.

Shannon was a native of Marion, Ohio, and graduated from Marion 
Harding High School, where he was an accomplished wrestler, winning his 
weight class in the Ohio Heartland Conference for 3 straight years.

He joined the service in September 1997, serving stateside as well as 
in Afghanistan, Iraq and Bosnia, before joining the 545th Military 
Police Company, Arctic Military Police Battalion, based at Fort 
Richardson, Alaska.

Shannon died on September 8, 2009, in Iraq while serving his country 
in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Aged 31, he is survived by a 
loving family, including his wife, Cassie, and his parents, James and 
Deborah.

In the reading of Shannon's life and in speaking with his family 
members, it was clear that he had a positive impact on the lives of 
everyone around him. He had the tenacity of a wrestler and a remarkable 
sense of humor. He was a leader, a family man and a champion in every 
sense of the word. He was one of the brave few who stood up and 
volunteered to serve his country.

He fought to protect us. He gave his life in defense of his family, 
his community, his State, and his Nation. For this, every American owes 
him and his family a great debt of gratitude.

Shannon will be missed each and every day, but the strength of his 
character and the courage he demonstrated through his service will live 
on.
