---
---

# AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC DAY
## `d55174a97ad5be631e973a508cdd71dc`
`Mr. McMAHON — 28 May 2010`

---


Mr. McMAHON. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the people of the 
Republic of Azerbaijan--as they prepare to celebrate Republic Day on 
May 28.

Republic Day commemorates the day Azerbaijan first declared 
independence from the Russian Empire on May 28, 1918. Though the 
Azerbaijan Republic later succumbed to Soviet forces in 1920, in its 2 
years of independence Azerbaijan achieved a number of measures on 
state-building, armed forces, education, economy, and universal 
suffrage, from which it benefits today.

Azerbaijan's second opportunity for freedom and independence began in 
1990 as Azerbaijanis began gathering in protest against Soviet rule. 
Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, Azerbaijan declared anew 
their independence.

On August 30, 1991, Azerbaijan's Parliament adopted the Declaration 
on the Restoration of the State of Independence of the Republic of 
Azerbaijan, and on October 18, 1991, their Constitution was approved.

The last 19 years of independence has not been without challenges. 
The territorial integrity of Azerbaijan was violated and the Nagorno-
Karabakh and seven surrounding regions of Azerbaijan have been occupied 
by neighboring Armenia. In 1993 the UN Security Council adopted four 
resolutions demanding complete, unconditional, and immediate withdrawal 
of Armenian forces from the occupied territories of Azerbaijan. NATO, 
OSCE, EU and other international organizations also repeatedly called 
for the restoration of Azerbaijan's territorial integrity, and I 
support a swift, peaceful resolution to this conflict, as well.

Azerbaijan is a key global security partner for the United States. 
Azerbaijan was among the first nations to offer our own country with 
unconditional support in its anti-terrorism efforts, providing use of 
its airspace, airports, and troops for Operation Enduring Freedom in 
Afghanistan. Azerbaijan was also the first Muslim nation to send troops 
to Iraq.

Azerbaijan has extended important over-flight clearances for U.S. and 
NATO flights to support ISAF and has regularly provided landing and 
refueling operations at its airports for U.S. and NATO forces. Also, 
Azerbaijan plays an important role in the Northern Distribution 
Network, a supply route to Afghanistan by making available its ground 
and Caspian naval transportation facilities.

Azerbaijan has opened Caspian energy resources to development by U.S. 
companies and has emerged as a key player for global energy security. 
The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline project is the most successful project 
contributing to the development of the South Caucasus region and has 
become the main artery delivering Caspian Sea hydrocarbons to the U.S. 
and our partners in Europe. Notably, in 2009 Azerbaijan provided nearly 
one quarter of all crude oil supplies to Israel and is considered a 
leading potential natural gas provider for the U.S. supported Nabucco 
pipeline.

Madam Speaker, as a proud member of Congressional Azerbaijan Caucus, 
I congratulate the Republic of Azerbaijan on the celebration of 
Republic Day, and commend President Obama's nomination of Matthew Bryza 
to serve as the U.S. Ambassador to Azerbaijan. I believe that Mr. Bryza 
has the knowledge and experience necessary to reassure our Azerbaijani 
friends that the United States appreciates their support and will 
continue to work with them to achieve peace and stability in the 
Caucuses. I look forward to further collaboration between our two 
nations.
