---
---

# PROTECT AMERICA ACT OF 2007 EXTENSION
## `d55db736a4cc8d57596771b5a15e2568`
`Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California — 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California. Madam Speaker, first of all, let 
me say I rise in support of this bill. Unfortunately, we are at this 
occasion where we have to have this short-term extension.

But let me just say a couple of things in response to what the 
majority leader said. In the first instance he said that if we don't 
have the Protect America Act, but we have the underlying bill, it will 
work well enough to deal with the problems in an emergency situation. 
Unfortunately, that's contradicted by the head of our intelligence 
services. The reason we are here is because it doesn't work.

Secondly, the majority leader said the RESTORE Act, the so-called 
RESTORE Act that we passed in November is a bill that we passed that 
should take care of these problems. It is a bill that does not work, 
and I will give you just one example of its difficulty.

In section 2(a)(2), treatment of inadvertent interceptions, it grants 
greater protections to Osama bin Laden than it would to an American 
citizen heard inadvertently in the United States. That happens to be a 
fact. We've debated it on this floor. Not a single person on that side 
of the aisle has been able to contradict that. And even the chairman of 
the Constitutional Law Subcommittee has come to me and said we are 
right; a huge mistake was made. And yet that was the bill that was 
passed here and that we are told and the American people are being told 
needs to go forward.

Frankly, the bill we passed in August, the Protect America Act, is 
nothing short of a legislative LASIK surgery. We had the head of the 
intelligence services of the United States come to us and say we were 
blinded so that we could not see over 60 percent of the legitimate 
terrorist targets in the world because of an interpretation of the law 
impacted by the new technology; that is, the way communications are 
transmitted. It was at his request that we looked at this. We did that 
in August. We've opened our eyes. We've been able to look at those 
targets, those legitimate targets around the world. And if we do not 
act today we will close our eyes once again.

The fact of the matter is, the strangeness of this institution, of 
only allowing the Protect America Act for 6 months, then coming and 
saying, Well, the new bill ought to be limited to 30 days, or 15 days, 
is really something we ought to examine.

Does anyone suggest that the threat out there is a 6-month threat, a 
15-day threat, a 30-day threat? It is an almost permanent threat that 
we see out there. We need legislation that will give us certainty, that 
will allow us to keep our eyes open, to gather the intelligence 
necessary to protect our homeland.

You can argue about the Iraq war all you want. This goes to the 
essence of protecting us against the terrorists who would bring the war 
to our shores, who have already brought the war to our shores. This 
goes to the effectiveness of the techniques that are used in today's 
new technology.

We were asked by Admiral McConnell to do the job. We did the job in 
August, with the exception of not giving the protection to those 
communications companies who actually responded to a patriotic request 
to help in this fight.

For some reason, my friends on the other side believe in the reverse 
Good Samaritan act: Don't help us; be worried. But bring your attorneys 
when asked.