# IRAQ
## `d561e74543df2e5399e8cf216edfd6c3`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I rise today to oppose the resolution, 
S. 574, the Senate will vote in relation to tomorrow. This resolution 
states simply that:




 No. 1, Congress and the American people will continue to 


 support and protect the members of the United States Armed 


 Forces who are serving or who have served bravely and 


 honorably in Iraq; and No. 2, Congress disapproves of the 


 decision of President George W. Bush announced on January 10, 


 2007, to deploy more than 20,000 additional U.S. combat 


 troops to Iraq.


Mr. President, the first paragraph of that resolution is a 
commendable one and one every Member of this body should support, and 
will. However, the second paragraph is simply inconsistent with a vote 
every Member has already made and should be opposed by every Member of 
this body. Therefore, the resolution as a whole should be opposed.

Exactly 3 weeks ago, on January 26, the Senate unanimously approved 
GEN David Petraeus for his fourth star and to be commander of 
multinational forces in Iraq. No Senator opposed his nomination. In my 
12 years in the Congress, I do not think I have seen Members of 
Congress express any higher confidence or support for a nominee for any 
position than they have for GEN David Petraeus. I have not heard anyone 
criticize him, and rightly so.

In his nomination hearing, when asked about his opinion of the 
President's plan for Iraq that he now has the responsibility of 
executing, General Petraeus said:




 I believe this plan can succeed if, in fact, all of those 


 enablers and all the rest of the assistance is in fact 


 provided.


General Petraeus supports this plan. Now, the same Senate that voted 
unanimously to confirm General Petraeus is going to vote on whether 
they agree with the plan he supports and that they confirmed him 
to execute. That vote has not been taken yet, so obviously we don't 
know the outcome.


Some people would like to mislead the American people into thinking 
that Republicans are opposed to debating Iraq and the various 
resolutions in Iraq. In fact, Republicans welcome that debate, and that 
is why many of us are here today. However, Republicans rightfully 
oppose the Democrats' dictating what resolutions can be considered.

If Senators truly disapprove of this decision, they should be willing 
to vote for or against a resolution that clearly expresses their 
convictions, and that is exactly what Senator Gregg's resolution does. 
However, Democrats are not willing to do that. Senator Gregg's 
resolution expresses the sense of the Congress that:




 No funds should be cut off or reduced from American troops 


 in the field which would result in undermining their safety 


 or ability to complete their assigned missions.


If Senators truly do not support the mission we are sending General 
Petraeus and our men and women in uniform to carry out, then they 
should be willing to have an up-or-down vote on the Gregg resolution.

For the record, let me restate my position on the proposed troop 
increase. Several weeks ago, President Bush addressed the situation in 
Iraq before the American people, and everyone was anxious to hear his 
plans for a new strategy. It is clear that Americans want a victory in 
Iraq; however, they do not want our presence there to be open-ended. I 
agree, and most importantly, I believe it is time for the Iraqi 
Government to step up and take responsibility. They need to take 
control of their country, both militarily and politically. I believe 
the Iraqis must deliver on their promises.

I come from a strong and proud military State, home to 13 military 
installations, and our service men and women have answered the call of 
duty and performed courageously. No one questions our troops' 
performance and unwavering commitment, and we will continue to support 
them. Many of our troops, including the 3rd Infantry Division based at 
Fort Stewart, GA, and Fort Benning, GA, are preparing to head overseas, 
some for their third tour of duty in Iraq, as we speak today.

The President's decision to send additional combat brigades to 
Baghdad and Anbar Province in western Iraq is aimed at defeating the 
insurgency in those areas and increasing stability for the Iraqi 
people. However, we must also see an increased commitment from the 
Iraqis. This is also part of the new strategy, and I am committed to 
holding the administration and the Iraqis accountable in this area. 
Those of us in Congress have a responsibility to ask questions and seek 
answers on behalf of the American people when our strategy and tactics 
are not getting the job done.

I have expressed my concern and frustration with progress on the part 
of the Iraqis not only to the President and the White House advisers 
but to our military leadership testifying before the Senate Armed 
Services Committee as well. In my conversations with the White House 
and with the Department of Defense leadership, I have made it clear 
that my support of any increase in troops is conditioned upon those 
troops being sent on a specific mission and upon the completion of that 
mission that they should be redeployed.

I firmly believe that just a large increase in troops without having 
a specific mission will only increase insurgent opposition and that a 
withdrawal of U.S. forces at this time would be detrimental to Iraq's 
security and extremely dangerous for American soldiers. That particular 
issue has been affirmed by every single individual in the U.S. military 
testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee. Failure in Iraq 
will result in expanded and intensified conflict in the Middle East, 
and that kind of instability is clearly not in the best interests of 
America or the international community.

Now that the President has taken serious steps to admit his mistakes, 
take responsibility, and revise the strategy, Americans do seek 
positive results. It has been said by many of my colleagues, as well as 
many of my own constituents, that the situation in Iraq requires a 
political and not a military solution. I strongly agree with that 
position. However, it is not possible, in my opinion, to have a 
political solution or to make political progress if citizens are afraid 
to leave their homes for fear of being shot or kidnaped or if they are 
afraid to let their children go to school because it is unsafe to do 
so. Some level of order and stability must be in place before a 
political solution can take hold.

In America, we take order and stability for granted because we are 
blessed to live in a country that is extremely safe, secure, and 
stable. However, Iraq is not the same as the United States. They do not 
live in a secure and stable society, and order and stability must be in 
place before there can be


any hope for a long-term political solution. The additional troops we 
are sending are meant to create that order and stability, particularly 
in Baghdad. Unfortunately, the Iraqi military and Government is not yet 
mature enough to do that job themselves, so we are partnering with them 
to help them succeed.

There is nothing easy or pretty about war, and this war is no 
exception. This war has not gone as well as any of us had hoped. 
Additionally, the President's new plan, which is already being carried 
out in Iraq, is not guaranteed to work. However, it is my firm 
conviction that the President's plan deserves a chance to succeed, and 
we in the Congress should do all we can to help it succeed. The Reid 
resolution does not do that. That is why I urge my colleagues to vote 
against cloture on the motion to proceed to the Reid resolution 
tomorrow. The resolution opposes the President's plan without offering 
any alternative. It opposes the mission which the Senate has 
unanimously confirmed General Petraeus to carry out.


I urge a vote against the implementation of cloture tomorrow.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.