---
---

# None
## `d5736f9313a272d91d31834c09f3df90`
`Mr. HUNTER — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, we are in the middle of a war in which the 
battlefield situation changes on a daily


basis. The idea that the gentleman has given us a requirement for the 
administration to project until 2068, for 50, 60 years as to what is 
going to happen on the battlefield and what the casualties are going to 
be; and I believe he has laid out 23 considerations.

When you get out that far, Mr. Chairman, this becomes basically an 
editorial against the war, and I think there are other ways you can put 
that if you want to frame that particular position. But the idea that 
we are asking as we sit here and try to figure out what gas prices are 
going to be in 2 weeks, the idea that we are going to figure out how 
Iraq is going to be situated half a century from now, I think that is 
simply something that trivializes our debate on this very critical 
issue.

And let me tell you, 23 factors if we actually put this thing in law, 
the idea that we are supposed to have our people in uniform devoted to 
figuring out how to succeed in their mission, how to take care of our 
people, to have them out there trying to be seers of the future for 
half a century with respect to a war that is changing on a weekly basis 
is an enormous burden on people who wear the uniform.

So, Mr. Chairman, I think we should all vote a resounding ''no'' on 
this, and let's do analyses that are relevant, that can be utilized. 
But the idea of sending our people down the pike for a 50-year look at 
the future I think is not going to be good for this committee and I 
think it is not going to be productive for the security of the United 
States.

I reserve the balance of my time