---
---

# CELEBRATING THE 125TH ANNIVERSARY OF BETHESDA HOSPITAL IN SAINT PAUL,  MN
## `d578f9f6f9c755f16978dd915f5776c4`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 24 April 2008`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, today I rise to recognize 
Bethesda Hospital on its 125th anniversary in Saint Paul, MN. Since its 
founding in 1883, this hospital has been a leader in our community in 
providing quality health care services through a compassionate and 
holistic framework. Bethesda Hospital is now the largest long-term 
acute care hospital in the region and has earned a national reputation 
for excellence and innovation in health care.

In 1883, Bethesda Hospital was established by Reverend A. P. Monten, 
D.D., pastor of the first Swedish Lutheran Church in Saint Paul, along 
with the sponsorship of the Tabitha Society of the Swedish Lutheran 
Minnesota Conference. Rev. Monten and his fellow Swedish Lutherans 
converted a single family home near Lake Como in Saint Paul into a 
hospital with 20 beds to serve individuals who were impoverished and 
sick.

Today, Bethesda Hospital stays true to its deep roots, still helping 
those with illnesses recover, regardless of their ability to pay. 
Bethesda Hospital has also remained in Saint Paul these past 125 years. 
It has expanded its capacity since its modest origins, now providing 
262 beds for patients, employing 740 staff, and treating about 1400 
patients on an annual basis.

Bethesda Hospital has grown greatly throughout its history. In 1892, 
Bethesda moved from its Lake Como neighborhood to downtown Saint Paul 
at 9th and Wacouta Streets, near the Union Depot. This new facility 
featured two operating rooms on the third floor which were known to be 
the best operating rooms in the whole state.

Despite additions to Bethesda's facility at 9th and Wacouta, it 
eventually outgrew that location. By 1932, after an intense fundraising 
campaign to construct a new hospital, it reopened at what is still its 
current home, just steps away from the State Capitol.

As Saint Paul and its surrounding area has changed over the years, 
Bethesda Hospital has also adapted to meet the community's developing 
needs. During the closing and consolidation of hospitals in 1986, 
Bethesda joined together with St. John's and St. Joseph's Hospitals to 
merge under the newly created HealthEast Care system. Three years 
later, Bethesda was officially designated as a Long-Term Acute Care 
Hospital to focus on treating patients who require extensive and 
rigorous therapy to recuperate.

Bethesda Hospital is now a specialty hospital serving a wide-range of 
patients of all ages and illnesses, such as student football players 
with concussions, car accident survivors, and patients dealing with 
multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Bethesda 
Hospital's inter-disciplinary teams of trained professionals develop 
individualized treatment plans for patients that may not only include 
behavioral, cognitive, occupational, physical, respiratory, and speech 
therapies, but also a variety of recreational therapies such as art 
therapy, pet therapy, and virtual therapy.

Bethesda Hospital has been widely acclaimed for its award-winning 
programs and services. In particular, the Brain Injury of Minnesota as 
well as The Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities 
have paid tribute to the hospital's outstanding service in the area of 
brain injury.

Building on its specialty in treating brain injuries, Bethesda 
Hospital continues to respond to the serious health care needs we face. 
Currently, Bethesda Hospital is collaborating with the Minneapolis VA 
Medical Center, Minnesota National Guard, the Department of Defense, 
and the Veterans Affairs Central Office in Washington, DC to identify 
ways that Bethesda Hospital can serve the veterans and injured soldiers 
across our nation who are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. I am so 
pleased that Bethesda Hospital plans to answer the call and serve our 
troops and veterans who have served us so honorably. Bethesda Hospital 
has the expertise to conduct critical predeployment baseline cognitive 
skills testing and follow-up post deployment testing to evaluate our 
veterans' health conditions and track their recovery.

Madam Speaker, in honor of the legacy of caring that the dedicated 
donors, staff, patients, and volunteers at Bethesda Hospital have 
created, I am pleased to submit this statement for the Congressional 
Record recognizing the 125th anniversary of Bethesda Hospital.
