---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `d57adcd2bc8f0d45c5845a0a390ee4d0`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 20 May 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I am grateful to the chairman and ranking 
member for their work on this critical bill.

I am happy to be joined by Senators Lugar and Reed in introducing an 
amendment to ensure that civilians deployed to Afghanistan receive 
training that cultivates greater civilian-military unity of mission and 
emphasizes the importance of counterinsurgency and stability 
operations.

Last month, I had the distinct privilege of traveling with Senator 
Reed to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq to visit our troops and assess 
regional developments and challenges.

During the trip, it was abundantly clear that we must build greater 
unity of mission between civilians and military in order to meet our 
growing needs in the region.

In Iraq and Afghanistan, we are engaged in a four-stage process of 
fighting insurgency by shaping the environment, clearing insurgents 
with military power, holding the area with effective security forces 
and police, and building through a combination of governance and 
economic development.

As we increase our military commitment and civilian capacity in 
Afghanistan, we must ensure that all U.S. personnel have the tools they 
need to succeed in this increasingly difficult mission.

In addition to sending 21,000 additional troops and trainers to 
Afghanistan, President Obama recently announced that we will send 
hundreds of civilians from the State Department, USAID, and other 
agencies to partner with the Afghan people and government in promoting 
economic development and governance.

These civilians will continue to work in tandem with the military in 
stabilizing Afghanistan and should therefore train in tandem to prepare 
for their deployment.

When surveyed, civilians serving in Afghanistan have confirmed that 
joint training with the military was the single most effective 
preparation. This sentiment underscores the urgency of this amendment, 
and highlights the critical need for increased joint training so we can 
meet current and future needs in Afghanistan.

Integrated training, specifically for military and nonmilitary 
personnel participating in provincial reconstruction teams, PRTs, is 
ongoing, and the next course will be held later this month at Camp 
Atterbury in Indiana.

Still, this training will include only about 25 nonmilitary personnel 
from State and USAID, and it is not scheduled to recommence for 9 
months, after many of our brave men and women have already left for the 
region.

Especially given the increased need, this 9-month training cycle is 
woefully inadequate. We do not have 9 months to wait and we should not 
risk sending civilians to Afghanistan without the training they need to 
be safe, secure, and effective.

We must therefore increase the frequency of training programs, such 
as the one at Camp Atterbury and we also must ensure this training 
includes a greater focus on counterinsurgency and stability operations.

The military challenges we are facing today are unlike conventional 
wars of the past. I strongly agree with the assessment of leading 
defense experts that we must better prepare to win the wars we are in, 
as opposed to those we may wish to be in.

According to Secretary Gates, this will require ''. . . a holistic 
assessment of capabilities, requirements, risks, and needs'' which will 
entail, among other things, a rebalancing of our defense budget.

This also includes changing the way we prepare U.S. personnel for 
their mission, as reflected by the creation of the Counterinsurgency 
Academy in Kabul, where more civilians should train in greater numbers 
with the military once they are in Afghanistan.

An increased focus on counter-
insurgency reflects the fact that we must undergo a military 
rebalancing to be better prepared to face an asymmetric threat.

Thanks to the leadership, vision, and integrity of Secretary Gates, 
General Petraeus, and others, we have moved in that direction, and we 
must continue along this path.

That is why I strongly support this supplemental, which contains 
increased funding for mine resistant ambush protected vehicles, or 
MRAPS, and other equipment to counter unconventional threats like 
improvised explosive devices. Such equipment is critical to advancing 
our security goals in Afghanistan and Iraq.

But most importantly, it provides needed defenses for our troops, so 
that we can keep our brave men and women out of harm's way in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

It is in this same vein that we must also take every opportunity to 
prepare our civilians better. Increased civilian-military training 
focused on counter-
insurgency and stability operations is essential to meeting this goal, 
and that is why I urge my colleagues to join Senators Lugar, Reed, and 
me in supporting this amendment.

Mr. President I appreciate the chairman and ranking member's 
assistance on this amendment, as well as the guidance I have received 
from Senator Leahy.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.