# ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
## `d58c1a1af6d38a9d92d55b91ed2ee4e3`
`Mr. HODES — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Mr. Speaker, I'm here tonight with my distinguished 
colleague from Florida (Mr. Klein) to talk


in this Chamber about accountability, and to talk about our security in 
the Middle East, our strategy for the war in Iraq, the problems the 
American people face with the leadership of this country, which does 
not seem, at the very top echelon, the President and the Vice 
President, to be able to respond to the clearly expressed will of the 
American people, the facts on the ground in Iraq, the advice from 
esteemed military commanders and generals who understand the situation 
in Iraq.

And, really, it all comes down to accountability. Because Mr. Kline 
and I came to this body as a result of the elections of November 2006. 
And in those elections, the American people spoke loudly and clearly. 
In my home State of New Hampshire, they said we need a new direction in 
Iraq; our strategy is not working.

The war in Iraq has not made us safer. The war in Iraq is not 
enhancing American security. The war in Iraq is not stabilizing the 
Middle East and advancing our true national security interests. The war 
in Iraq is costing billions and billions and billions of dollars, 
sapping our military strength and readiness, and leaving us, as a 
Nation, poorer and unable to respond to conflicts around the globe and 
the urgent need of domestic priorities at home, the needs of working 
families here in America who need the kinds of funds that are being 
diverted into a war that is not working, that need to be used at home 
to help take care of Americans.

Now I'd like to yield to Mr. Klein.