# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2634, JUBILEE ACT FOR RESPONSIBLE  LENDING AND EXPANDED DEBT CANCELLATION OF 2008
## `d58e42011a3e86426572d650d2d4887d`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Madam Speaker, House Resolution 1103 provides 
for consideration of H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending 
and Expanded Debt Cancellation, under a structured rule. The rule 
provides 1 hour of general debate controlled by the Committee on 
Financial Services. The rule also makes in order four amendments 
printed in the Rules Committee report, each of which is debatable for 
10 minutes. The rule provides for one motion to recommit, with or 
without instructions.

Madam Speaker, structured, responsible debt relief has been proven to 
be one of the most effective methods of fighting global poverty. In 
1996 the World Bank and the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, 
developed the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries, or HIPC, Initiative to 
provide debt relief to the world's most impoverished nations. The 28 
countries that participated in this program have been spending the debt 
relief on good things in their country for the very poor people, on 
education and health. In the first 10 years of the program, the IMF and 
the World Bank provided $62 billion of debt relief, cutting the 
countries' debt by an average of two-thirds.

The results speak for themselves. The participating countries now 
spend four times as much on health, education, and social services as 
they do on paying back debt. Tanzania, for instance, has used its money 
from debt cancellation to eliminate school fees for elementary school 
education. Think about it. The poorest countries, their kids were 
having to pay fees to go to elementary school, something that's not 
even required here, while Zambia eliminated fees for health care in 
rural areas. Multilateral efforts in Niger reduced debt from 76 percent 
of their


gross domestic product, and think about that, 76 percent of the gross 
domestic product was used in debt relief, in 2002 to 14 percent in 
2006. With that savings Niger has been able to make investments in 
health and education. They've reduced the infant mortality rate, cut it 
in half. Primary school completion has increased from 16 to 28 percent, 
and access to drinkable water increased from 40 percent for the people 
in Niger to 69 percent.

The bill that this rule will bring to the floor today will build on 
this record of quantifiable success to expand efforts to reduce the 
debts owed by impoverished nations. This legislation makes debt 
forgiveness immediately possible for nine countries that meet the 
standards of the Jubilee Act. This is not a giveaway program.



These nations are among the poorest in the world with per capita 
incomes of less than $3 a day, $1,065 a year. Countries initially 
eligible under this legislation for debt relief would include Cape 
Verde, Georgia, Kenya, Mongolia and Vietnam.

But as I mentioned, the Jubilee Act does not give countries that 
borrowed money a free ride with debt forgiveness. It includes strict 
parameters to ensure that the participating countries: one, have 
transparent and effective budget processes; two, do not support 
terrorism; three, cooperate in international counternarcotic efforts; 
and, four, uphold human rights standards.

In addition, funds made available as a result of loan forgiveness 
must be directed toward antipoverty programs, and countries must 
publish an annual report to be accountable on how those funds were 
spent.

These criteria ensure the loan forgiveness funds are used wisely and 
well. They provide an incentive for noneligible countries to reduce 
corruption and improve human rights practices so they may, one day, 
become eligible for debt forgiveness.

Fifteen additional countries, including Bangladesh, Nigeria and 
Zimbabwe would be eligible for debt cancellation upon making required 
reforms.

This is the brand of leadership that America needs more of where we 
are doing our share, but we are working with our allies and where we 
are using the incentive of debt forgiveness. Many of these debts, 
incidentally, were taken by kleptocrats who formerly ruled in these 
countries, and now these countries are trying to free themselves of the 
yoke of this terrible leadership. This debt forgiveness program allows 
us, working with our allies, the IMF and the World Bank, to give them a 
boost.

Finally, Madam Speaker, it must be noted that because the 
international financial institutions like the World Bank and the IMF 
are expected to pay the bulk of the debt relief, the tremendous 
improvements that can be achieved under this bill come at a very 
reasonable cost to the U.S. taxpayer.

The cost of America canceling bilateral debt for the countries 
initially eligible is estimated to be $197 million. That is less than 
what we spend for 14 hours in Iraq, just to put it in perspective. 
However, this bill does not actually authorize any debt cancellation. 
It authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to enter into negotiations 
to cancel debt. Any debt cancellation agreement reached by the 
Secretary returns to Congress for our approval. In fact, the 
Congressional Budget Office has scored this legislation at no cost to 
the taxpayers.

Debt reduction has been proven to be one of the most effective, both 
cost effective and socially effective, ways to achieve significant 
reductions in global poverty.

I urge my colleagues to support this rule and the underlying bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.