---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES CORPORAL WILLIAM CRAIG COMSTOCK
## `d58edfae77c4a2d951af65ae640185ef`
`Mr. PRYOR — 30 April 2009`

---


Mr. PRYOR. Mr. President, today, I come to the floor to honor Cpl 
William Craig Comstock of Van Buren, AR. His life and service to our 
country embody the full measure of the Marine Corps motto, ''Semper 
Fidelis,'' meaning ''always faithful.''

We lost Corporal Comstock when he paid the ultimate sacrifice while 
serving in Iraq's Anbar Province. Comstock was on his second tour with 
the 2nd Supply Battalion, Combat Logistics Regiment 25, 2nd Marine 
Logistics Group, II Marine Expedition Force, Camp Lejeune, NC. Working 
as an ammunition technician on his first tour in Iraq, he earned a 
Purple Heart for his bravery after sustaining a gunshot wound in the 
knee. Ever faithful to his Corps, he volunteered in January to return 
to Iraq a second time. He told his family he wanted to make that 
sacrifice for his fellow marines who he knew were eager to return home 
to see their own.

Coporal Comstock was loved by many. Those who knew him remember him 
for his wide smile, independent spirit, and warm heart. He was proud to 
be a U.S. marine, and the Marines were proud to have him. His awards 
include the Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, the Iraq Campaign Medal, the 
Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, and the National Defense Service 
Medal.

Even before joining the Marines, family, colleagues, and friends say 
Coporal Comstock lived by the ''Semper Fidelis'' motto. As an Alma High 
School football star, he played on despite an injured shoulder, 
refusing to let his teammates down. One of his football teammates, Nick 
Harrison, will graduate from Marine Corps basic training next month. 
Harrison's mother said it was Coporal Comstock that inspired her son to 
enlist.

Coporal Comstock was a loyal teammate to his fellow U.S. marines and 
planned to make a career in military service. Coporal Comstock's memory 
will live on through his friend Nick Harrison and others like him who 
selflessly serve our country in Iraq and Afghanistan. We are grateful 
for his service and my prayers are with his family during this 
difficult time.
