---
---

# None
## `d590f534dca4819d60a1e39e28f53e10`
`Mr. BOUSTANY — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. BOUSTANY. That's a perfect lead-in, because I want to talk a 
little bit about these two gentlemen who are leading this effort on the 
ground because I don't know if a lot of Americans really know about 
their background.

General Petraeus was a former commander of the 101st Airborne 
Division, and as many history buffs will remember, they were very 
famous for the first deployments behind German lines on D-Day. So that 
group, that division has a very illustrious history. Former Secretary 
of State Colin Powell was also a former commander of the 101st 
Airborne.

Not many people know this, but General Petraeus has a Ph.D. from 
Princeton University in international relations, and he is also an 
assistant professor of international relations at West Point.

He is a coauthor of the counter-insurgency manual that our military 
uses, and that's what they have actually implemented on the ground, and 
that's why we are seeing this great success.

Ambassador Crocker, there is a quote from his swearing in when he was 
sworn in as ambassador to Iraq, and I am going to quote Ambassador 
Crocker. He says, ''We have a historic challenge ahead of us. 
Terrorists, insurgents, militias continue to threaten security in 
Baghdad and around the country. Security is, without question, the 
central issue.''

In a very real sense it has been for at least the last four decades. 
I was here in the 1970s. There was no security. Iraqis everywhere lived 
in terror of the midnight knock on the door. Neighbors were afraid to 
talk to neighbors. It truly was the republic of fear.

Then came the savage Iran-Iraq war, Saddam Hussein's brutality to his 
own people, Desert Storm, and finally his overthrow in 2003. Those are 
all the things that the Iraqi people have had to endure in recent 
history.

This gentleman has a tremendous background as well. In January 2002 
he was sent to Afghanistan to reopen the American embassy in Kabul. He 
received the Robert C. Frasure Memorial Award for ''exceptional courage 
and


leadership'' in Afghanistan. He was ambassador to Pakistan in 2004-
2007, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern 
Affairs 2001-2003, and he has served as ambassador to Syria, Kuwait and 
Lebanon. In fact, he was at post in Lebanon in Beirut when our embassy 
was bombed there in 1983.

This gentleman has had tremendous experience in the Arab world, as 
has General Petraeus, and it's one measure of their integrity that they 
have provided this accurate testimony first back in September and now, 
to give us an accurate appraisal of what's happening in Iraq.



Now, let's talk a little bit about what is going on and look at a few 
trends.

I have a chart here that shows by different metrics, two different 
metrics, the Iraqi and coalition in purple, and in the blue it is 
coalition data. This shows the trend line. You can see how the number 
of civilian deaths by both tracks had gone up, particularly in the 2006 
and 2007 time frame, and now as we get down to the end of these curves, 
you get all of the way to March of this year, and you can see the 
significant improvement in the security situation with regard to 
civilians throughout Iraq.

How many Iraqi troops do we have there out front now. Currently there 
are 36 battalions of national police, up from 27 a year ago; and 171 
battalions of Iraqi Army up from 115 a year ago. And of those 171 
battalions, 112 are taking the lead in the fight against insurgents.

When I was in Baghdad in August, I was able to witness the result of 
training of the elite Iraqi force that they are sending out front to 
deal with hostage situations and terrorists and insurgents. It is a 
remarkable display to watch these gentlemen in action.

Afterwards I talked to some of our Special Forces guys doing the 
training, and they said they are getting close. They said they will 
never match up to American Special Forces and Delta Team, but they are 
pretty good. I got to witness this. It was a sign that this training 
process that we struggled with on the ground is finally coming to 
fruition and showing real results.

Next is the chart showing Iraqi security spending. This chart shows 
in the blue American or U.S. spending in dollars, billions of dollars, 
on Iraqi security forces. You can see the trend is dropping. We had an 
upsurge in 2006 and 2007, which was necessary, and now it is trending 
downward.

In green, look at the Iraqi expenditures going up. That is a 
significant sign that the Iraqis were committed to this process of 
taking care of their own security. I think it is critically important 
to recognize that trend.

Now I want to address the political, economic and social situation 
for a moment. It is important to recognize that prior to the brutal 
reign of Saddam Hussein, Iraq was basically a mosaic of tribes and 
subtribes, and governance was largely at the local level, dictated by 
tribal elders, and that is what it reverted to following the takedown 
of Saddam Hussein. We saw sectarian violence and all the jockeying for 
position. But at this point as a result of the plan that was 
implemented a little over a year ago, significant improvements in 
security have resulted, enabling Iraqis to make progress with their 
economy. Since the so-called surge began, business registrations have 
increased by 9 percent. And I know from my experience when I walked 
through the streets of Fallujah, there were a number of shops open and 
families were buying goods and food products. We are seeing 
microlending occurring to get new businesses started.

Iraqis still have a lot of work to do with their economy, and reforms 
are clearly needed to transition from what was a command-and-control 
economy to a modern market-based economy because clearly this is a 
major departure from what they had before.

Centralized electricity generation is now above prewar levels, still 
not sufficient to meet the needs of Iraq's growing demand, but markedly 
improved. Other key infrastructure needs are being upgraded, especially 
energy pipelines and storage facilities. Unemployment is still too 
high, and corruption still remains a challenge, but things are 
improving in those areas as well.

Early in the war, the U.S. funded most of the large scale 
reconstruction projects in Iraq. But now, the U.S. is focusing on 
encouraging entrepreneurship. This is clearly having positive results. 
The Iraqi government is now stepping up on reconstruction projects, and 
they have outspent the U.S. in a recent budget 11:1. That is 11 Iraqi 
dollar equivalents to $1 U.S. And soon, they are expected to cover 100 
percent of these expenses. This is significant progress. Ambassador 
Crocker pointed this out in his testimony, and it is very important for 
Americans out there to understand that there is a transition being made 
where the Iraqis are going to pay this.

The National Government has now committed $196 million to fund jobs 
programs so brave Iraqis who have stood up to extremists and murderers 
and criminals can learn skills that they need to help build a free and 
prosperous nation.

In July, the Asian Cup Soccer Tournament was held. This was a very 
important demonstration of Iraqi nationalism as the Iraqi team, known 
as the Lions of Two Rivers, beat the three-time champions Saudi Arabia 
1-0 in their first appearance in the Asian Cup final. And there was an 
outpouring of nationalism and public sentiment as a result of that.

The gentleman from Texas (Mr. Conaway) pointed out a number of major 
political accomplishments: The de-Ba'athification laws that have been 
passed that are allowing mid-level and low-level bureaucrats to return 
to service; the Iraqi leaders have agreed on a budget; and revenue 
sharing is well underway to get funds down to the provincial local 
level while the permanent revenue-sharing agreement is still being 
worked out.

Leaders have reached agreement on provincial powers law which will 
allow them to hold their provincial and local elections in October. 
This is a very important development because as I mentioned before, to 
have the local development and institutions come up while central 
government develops, as those two efforts meet, that is where we will 
see stability.

When I was in Baghdad, I met with the deputy prime minister, a Sunni 
member of the Council of Representatives, and he told me that he felt 
that Americans were paying too much attention to elections at the 
central level. He said elections are nice, but elections are like the 
fruit on the tree. You have to plant the tree, let it establish its 
roots, and grow. He was talking about institutions that need to develop 
from the ground up to have long-term stability. I will never forget 
that metaphor because it really demonstrates what is going on and the 
power of this plan that is in place that General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker have implemented.

Ambassador Crocker said today, in commenting on the events in Basra, 
''When viewed with a broader lens, the Iraqi decision to combat these 
groups in Basra has major significance. First, a Shia majority 
government has demonstrated its commitment to take on criminals and 
extremists regardless of sectarian identity.''

That is a significant development that would not have happened even a 
year ago.

My friend from Texas, I yield to him.