---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `d5916d41b60a12ff5f653d931c177e8e`
`Mr. WICKER — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. WICKER. Mr. Speaker, I served as a conferee on this bill Monday 
afternoon, and I was disappointed at what I saw. Everyone in the room 
knew then, as they know now, that President Bush will veto this 
legislation because it contains dangerous timelines for withdrawal in 
Iraq, undercutting our chances for success and making a political 
statement at a time when we should be working in a bipartisan manner to 
give our troops the resources they need to succeed.

Many of us heard General Petraeus this afternoon. I think most 
Members are highly impressed with his command of the situation and his 
candor. We ought to be willing to give him and his new strategy a 
chance. Instead, the bill before us tonight would guarantee failure.

This is a futile exercise and a waste of valuable time. It ensures 
further delay in getting the equipment, supplies and support to the 
troops. Because Congress has not provided this funding already, our 
military leaders must shuffle existing funds. Spending on new equipment 
will be postponed and repair work will be slowed on equipment needed 
elsewhere around the world, and the Pentagon will have to curtail 
training for National Guard and Reserve units. This will hamper their 
capabilities and their readiness.

The veto will come quickly, and, when it does, I hope the majority 
will not engage in further attempts to micromanage the war. Let's craft 
a responsible, focused supplemental package that funds the military and 
demonstrates to our soldiers that we support their efforts to complete 
the mission.

Contrary to what some in the Democratic leadership say, the war is 
not lost. Let's not legislate as if it is.