---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `d595eb733ec8f343a64d19a4d449fe73`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. I rise in strong opposition to this legislation, 
the process that brought it here tonight, but not to the money that is 
badly needed for our troops in the field.

For each of the last 3 years, the Defense appropriations bill, ably 
led by Chairman Young and Chairman Murtha, has included a 
straightforward bridge fund to cover the cost of ongoing operations in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

Indeed, the continuing resolution we passed last month gave our 
military access to the bridge funding until November 16. This funding 
allowed our warfighters, all volunteers, the ability to fuel their 
Stryker vehicles and Humvees, restock their ammunition, resupply their 
mess halls, power the systems that allow them to keep in touch with 
their families at home, and even to ship their new MRAP vehicles to the 
battle zone so they may be better protected from IEDs. And yes, protect 
their fellow soldiers and innocent Iraqis.

But bowing to antiwar sentiment, the majority leadership pointedly 
chose to keep this important bridge funding out of the defense bill 
that we approved last week.

So while our brave warfighters are hard at work in Iraq in a hellish 
environment, they find they have to watch their own backs from those in 
Washington who want to choke off funding for their missions, both 
military and humanitarian.

I submit that this deliberate attempt to starve our operations in 
Iraq threatens the very safety of those troops and the lives of 
hundreds of thousands of innocent Iraqis. No, Mr. Speaker, we should be 
sending to the President a clean bridge fund that does not tie the 
hands of commanders in the field and allows them to build on their 
undeniable successes in recent months in Iraq. Cutting money does tie 
their hands, limits those commanders' options, as does the setting of 
date certain.



My colleagues, the ill-advised process this House started last week 
is not without its costs. While Congress deliberately procrastinates, 
and some say throws roadblocks in front of our brave warriors battling 
violent international terrorists every day, military operations in Iraq 
and Afghanistan will run out of money, causing the Department of 
Defense to borrow from other important programs to support their 
operations.

I am told this process could completely drain the Army's operations 
and maintenance accounts by the end of next January.

In fact, it is my understanding that the Deputy Secretary of Defense 
has warned that the military would have to start preparing in December, 
next month, to close domestic military facilities, lay off civilian 
workers, and delay contracts if the bridge funding is not provided. 
This could have very damaging consequences for those communities 
privileged to host a military installation.

Mr. Speaker, I am also troubled that this bill requires the 
withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq and slaps restrictions on the 
mission of U.S. troops, again, both military and humanitarian.

This harkens back to what was recently described by the junior 
Senator from Connecticut as the ''narrative of defeat and retreat.'' As 
Senator Lieberman said yesterday, and I quote, ''Rather than supporting 
General Petraeus and our troops in the field, antiwar advocates in 
Congress are instead struggling to deny or disparage their 
achievements, and are now acting, once again, to hold hostage the 
funding our troops desperately need and to order retreat by a date 
certain, regardless of what is happening on the ground.''

I would remind my colleagues that even the Iraq Study Group warned us 
against setting arbitrary deadlines. We should let the troops and their 
commanders do their work.

I have always maintained that our brave troops' service in Iraq 
should be as short and as safe as possible. This legislation does 
nothing to advance either of these goals. I urge rejection of this 
bill.
















 General Leave
