# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `d59cf58f8a8a598367ecd4355a516e43`
`Mr. SKELTON — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to oppose the motion to recommit 
offered by my friend, my colleague from California who has served with 
me through the years on the Armed Services Committee.

The ground forces of the United States in particular are being 
stretched and strained as never before. For instance, during the Second 
World War, those that were involved with active combat after 3 or 4 
months at the most would be taken off line for rest and recoupment. The 
young men and young women today that are in Iraq are on point in combat 
and now are extended up to 15 months. I think this bill helps alleviate 
that point and helps keep the readiness at a higher level.

The stretching and straining of the ground forces, in particular the 
Army, will have a breaking point. We already know about the equipment 
shortage of nondeployed units. Why stretch these young people? Why not 
bring them home? This is a reasonable proposal, reasonable, and should 
be enacted into law. And, as the gentlelady from California points out, 
should there be any problem with any unit, there are waivers provided 
for in this legislation.

This is simple and straightforward. It is about protecting our 
military readiness, it is protecting the health of the troops and, by 
the way, helping those families recoup with their loved ones as they 
come back home with predictability, knowing when they will be home and 
knowing when they will be due to be deployed once again.

So I find myself having to vote against this motion to recommit for 
all those reasons: the families, the troops, and the need for 
predictability; and I compliment the gentlelady on this proposal to 
bring about predictability for our troops.