# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d59ee71bc445fdc22a4ec3b4d661c29d`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, today we are here, exactly 100 days after 
a historic watershed election in this country, in which the American 
people spoke loudly and clearly that they wanted a new Congress to rise 
to its constitutional duty and hold this administration accountable for 
its war policy in Iraq. The day I was sworn in as a new Member of 
Congress, I accepted this responsibility, and I rise today in 
opposition to the President's escalation of the war and in support of 
H. Con. Res. 63.

Make no mistake about the significance of what is happening this 
week. America's new Congress will go on record for the first time in 
opposition to the Bush administration's 4-year legacy of mistakes and 
misjudgments in Iraq. This will be in sharp contrast to 8 months ago 
when the prior Congress did exactly the opposite. That Congress lined 
up in lockstep with a war resolution written by and for the White 
House.

That resolution completely brushed over the misleading and 
manipulated intelligence that got us into this conflict, the strain of 
this war on our brave men and women in uniform, and the drain on our 
Nation's military readiness that is undercutting critical efforts in 
Afghanistan and our overall defense infrastructure. Instead of doing 
their constitutional duty, the 109th Congress instead just rubber-
stamped the administration's rhetoric and failing policy.

Opponents of today's resolution are claiming that it will damage our 
troop's morale. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I believe 
the opposite is true.

Let us be very clear about where the 20,000 new troops will come 
from. President Bush cannot simply dial 911 and 20,000 fresh new troops 
appear. This escalation can only happen by extending the deployments of 
soldiers already in Iraq, beyond their promised commitments, or 
accelerating the arrival of preexisting rotations. Upon close 
examination, it is clear that the impact of this surge lands squarely 
on the backs of our men and women in uniform who have already borne an 
unfair burden.

As we debate this resolution, there are nearly 1,900 men and women 
from my State of Connecticut, including 962 from Connecticut's National 
Guard, serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. They have all honored our 
Nation with their service and sacrifice, and they have done all that 
has been asked of them and more, and their families have shown awe-
inspiring strength in their absence.

Earlier this month, I was forwarded an e-mail from a constituent 
serving in Iraq which demonstrates the consequences of these 
unsustainable policies. In it he described how the morale in his unit 
fell when they found out that their tour was being unexpectedly 
extended another 4 months. He wrote:

''These guys have seen so much of the fighting here. To see the looks 
on these soldiers' faces was heartbreaking. A lot of these guys had 
plans made already with their loved ones, like weddings, trips, or 
family that traveled from far away to see them get off that


plane. There are children that were all excited, holding signs they 
made, waiting to see their fathers again only to have that shattered. 
How much more can soldiers like this take? These guys deserve the right 
to go home. They earned it.''

Letters like these demonstrate the real impact on our troops from the 
President's policy. And they are reinforced by the testimony I have 
heard at Armed Services. Over and over again, we have heard about the 
deterioration of our military readiness caused by overdeployment of our 
troops. Consider that today, as a result of the strain of the war, we 
currently have no active duty or Reserve brigades considered combat-
ready in the Continental U.S., leaving our Nation dangerously 
unprepared and vulnerable if needed to respond to other global threats 
or domestic emergencies.

Despite the huge costs to our troops and our national defense, the 
President has opted to aggravate the holes in our defense with a plan 
to escalate the number of troops in Iraq. And for what?

Yesterday, I read the new classified National Intelligence Estimate 
on Iraq. What I found in this report was the same as the unclassified 
version that has been reported in the press; that we have a 
deteriorating security situation in Iraq whose fundamental causes were 
identified as political, not military. This finding completely 
dovetails with the findings of the Iraq Study Group who came to the 
exact same conclusion.

Instead of absorbing the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group 
report and the National Intelligence Estimate and surging diplomacy and 
political solutions, the President instead has opted to escalate the 
war by sending 21,500 more troops into the middle of a violent 
sectarian conflict.

Where are the plans to equitably divide oil revenue or revisit the 
Iraqi Constitution which was left incomplete 2 years ago, or the push 
to create a real power-sharing arrangement between the Shia and the 
Sunni? Nowhere do we see any effort to get to the root causes of the 
violence. Instead, the Bush plan is more of the same, asking our brave 
troops to do the impossible, settling a sectarian conflict that goes 
back centuries in time.

President Bush has made his choice. Now it is Congress' turn as a 
coequal branch of government to make ours.



I firmly believe that the passage of this resolution will go down in 
history as the first stirrings of life from a Congress that has been in 
an Iraq stranglehold for 4 long years. It is an honor to be part of 
this history on behalf of one of the districts that had the courage to 
vote for change last November 100 days ago, and I will support 
resolution 63.