# None
## `d59fd7917705eb43cc680a74f25ea883`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 2647. 
Throughout my time in Congress I have been a champion for human rights. 
My opposition to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and by extension, 
the inclusion of an authorization for an additional $130 billion to 
fund these wars, is in part predicated on an understanding that war 
violates the human rights of the affected populations.

The war and occupation in Iraq has taken the lives of over one 
million people. Thousands more innocent lives have been lost due to 
military operations in Afghanistan. These lives are often referred to 
as ''collateral damage.'' But in reality these lives represent innocent 
children, mothers, sisters, brothers, and fathers, among others, that 
were killed because a war and occupation has been imposed on them. 
Military operations have caused their homes to be invaded, their 
communities to be bombed and their resources, including food and water, 
to be increasingly scarce.

Unemployment in both Iraq and Afghanistan is devastatingly high; 
access to humanitarian aid is limited; medical care and education are 
difficult to obtain or completely unavailable. The wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan have clearly violated the human rights of the civilian 
populations in which they are being waged.

The people of Afghanistan are suffering horribly from 8 years of war. 
During that time the Afghan central government has become increasingly 
corrupt and has failed to meet the needs of the Afghan people. Iraq has 
been decimated during more than six years of war and occupation. The 
people of Iraq continue to wonder when the killing of the innocent will 
be enough to satisfy the U.S. and question when the U.S. will end the 
occupation of their country.

The majority of the Iraqi and Afghan people are not extremists or 
insurgents, but they are the victims of the global war on terror whose 
daily lives now entail little more than struggling to feed their 
families and survive the violence of the war. Furthermore, the war in 
Iraq was based on false intelligence and an inaccurate, government 
sponsored, propaganda campaign.

I ask this body: Where is our dedication to the human rights of the 
innocent people around the world who will be killed, maimed or 
displaced by the bombs, weapons and death machines that this bill 
funds?

As a staunch supporter of human rights I have consistently supported, 
voted in favor of, and advocated for passage of hate crimes 
legislation. I am fully committed to ensuring that the human rights of 
all individuals are protected. Therefore, I believe that passage of 
hate crimes legislation is essential to ensuring strong human rights 
protections for the victims of violent crimes that are perpetrated 
based on the actual or perceived race, color, religion, national 
origin, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or disability of 
the victim.

But there is a deep-seated irony in including a human rights 
provision in a funding bill that will inevitably ensure the 
continuation of human rights violations in parts of the world. I 
believe that, as a Nation and a part of the global community, we cannot 
fully ensure the protection of our own human rights here in the United 
States without being equally diligent in ensuring the human rights of 
our global society. I cannot trade the human rights of some for the 
human rights of others.