---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `d5c18212610b12a963ab67e1886c8b7c`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. I'd like to finish first.

So I wish the gentleman would withdraw the amendment and that we 
would continue to work in good faith as we already have this year, and 
that's evidenced by the 94 percent increase above the President's 
request for these.

I cannot go along with cutting funding that could lead to the loss of 
250 claims processors that would link them to an already 6-month delay. 
For 6 months our veterans are having to wait to get their claims 
considered.

Our servicemen and -women, Mr. Chairman, didn't delay when Uncle Sam 
sent them to combat. They went to all parts of the Earth and into 
harm's way when our country asked them to do so. They didn't ask for a 
6-month delay. For the National Guardsmen, the 500 I met last Sunday 
afternoon in my hometown of Waco, many of whom are going back to Iraq 
for their second and third tours of duty, they didn't wait 6 months 
when their country called on them to duty, and I don't think it's right 
to ask 390,000 veterans to wait 6 months.

We desperately need to get that waiting time down, and I think, 
though well intended and for a good cause--and it is well intended and 
it is a good cause--that this amendment that I have strongly supported 
could do harm to 390,000 veterans. That's why I rise in strong 
opposition to this amendment.

If I have some time remaining, I'd be glad to yield to the gentleman.