---
---

# None
## `d5c285c2ae4fd1752b352550105610be`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 12 December 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, while I cannot support H.R. 1585, this 
legislation does contain the provisions of H.R. 3481, the ''Support for 
Injured Servicemembers Act,'' a bill that I introduced in the House and 
which amends the Family and Medical Leave Act to provide 6 months of 
leave for spouses, children, parents and other ''next of kin'' to care 
for injured service members. H.R. 3481 implements one of the 
recommendations of the President's Commission on Care for America's 
Returning Wounded Warriors, chaired by Secretary Shalala and Senator 
Dole.

The Family and Medical Leave Act is intended to help individuals 
balance their family and work obligations. Ninety million working 
people are now eligible for unpaid job protected leave for up to 12 
weeks a year. When the Act was passed in 1993, it was a giant step and 
is of great importance to working families.

Since a majority of military spouses work, they too must balance work 
and family. They work to put food on the table and support their 
families, just like the rest of us. But they face additional challenges 
because their lives are disrupted by multiple deployments, involving 
not only active service members but those in the National Guard and 
reserves as well.

The conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan have resulted in over 30,000 
casualties with many servicemembers being seriously wounded. These 
injured warriors need substantial support and care from their families, 
often for long periods of time, and some permanently.

The Workforce Protections Subcommittee, which I chair, held a hearing 
in September on H.R. 3481. We heard from several witnesses about the 
need for extended family and medical leave in these instances.

Unfortunately, this Administration has let down our returning service 
members and their families. Therefore, I introduced H.R. 3481, so no 
matter where we come down on the merits of these conflicts, we can help 
families who support loved ones who put their lives on the line in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. The provisions of H.R. 3481 will certainly help.