---
---

# ECONOMIC OBSERVATIONS BY THE 43 MEMBER STRONG, FISCALLY CONSERVATIVE  DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `d5c8b49d01a23ec286dce1fa0e74eb5c`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman will yield, I often tell 
this story of my father. I served during the tail end of Vietnam and my 
father was a World War II veteran. My son served now during Iraqi 
Freedom. He just finished his tour last December, but I like to tell 
this story of my father who was a proud veteran.

At the age of 82, my father was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease; 
and as was usual on Sunday mornings, I would go over to Mom and Dad's 
ranch house, and we would have breakfast with my mom and dad. We had 
been told by the doctors that my dad had Alzheimer's, and it was one 
day right around, he must have been around 84 when one Sunday morning 
we heard him fumbling around in his back bedroom. Shortly thereafter, 
he came out and in his hand he bore his World War II staff sergeant 
uniform, and he told us, this is the uniform that I want to be buried 
in. We thought at the time, well, it sounded a little bit self-serving 
but doctors tell you not to argue with Alzheimer's patients. So we 
said, sure, Dad, no problem. We will do that.


Well, the disease continued to progress over the next couple of 
years, but often, often he would bring up the issue of wanting to be 
buried in his uniform, and it was at the age of 86 that my father 
suffered a severe heart attack. My mother called me over. We live about 
a quarter mile away. When I got there, the ambulance was there, and I 
remember lifting my father off the floor to put him on the gurney to 
take him to the hospital. And with the last ounce of strength he had in 
his body, he lifted his arms up around my neck and he said, I love you, 
and the last word he ever whispered to me was the word ''uniform.''

My father had forgotten almost everything in life, even how to use 
his bodily functions; but there are two things he had not forgotten, 
the love that he had for his family and the love that he had for his 
country and how proud he was to have served his country.

For many veterans, that is the greatest legacy that they have, and so 
when we propose an Iraqi war supplemental, we are also proposing 
funding to make sure that the veterans that have served this country 
are protected.

I tell this story because it is important that we protect those that 
have


protected us, and I know that we as members of the Blue Dog Coalition 
are very proud to stand beside our veterans and make sure that they 
have the things that they need.

The gentleman from Arkansas talks about visiting Walter Reed. I do 
that on a regular basis, and it is the most disheartening feeling in 
the world to see our troops without arms and legs. They do not ask for 
anything. All they ask for is help me get through life. We owe that to 
our veterans.