---
---

# None
## `d5f109dcb691c09f0e44a5e7b5ebb1fe`
`Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas — 1 August 2007`

---


Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
strong support of the conference report for H.R. 1495, the Water 
Resources Development Act of 2007.

I congratulate Chairman Oberstar, Ranking Member Mica and the ranking 
member of the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, Mr. 
Baker, for your work on reaching this agreement in the vital 
infrastructure investment bill for the Nation's water resources needs.

I especially express my appreciation to the staff, to Congressman 
Young,


Congressman Duncan, and Congressman Costello and other distinguished 
members of this committee, because we have all worked together in a 
bipartisan manner.

All of us assembled here this evening understand the magnitude of 
this moment. The clock is working against the infrastructure of our 
country. The 7 years we have waited to enact a water resources 
development bill have led to significant increases in cost to 
adequately address the Nation's deteriorating water resources and flood 
control infrastructure.

As such, I am delighted that we as conferees have come to an 
agreement on the issues independent of review, environmental issues, 
environmental infrastructure and individual projects that have, up 
until now, prevented us from crafting a final conference report.

We do right and good by this country when we invest in its 
infrastructure. I agree with the chairman that enactment of a water 
resources bill this year is critical to economic prosperity, job 
creation, protection of the environment and public safety.

Since Congress last passed a Water Resources Development Act, we have 
seen Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita devastate the gulf coast and 
my home State of Texas, flooding cities, damaging economies and 
businesses and threatening public health.

No water resources bill has been enacted since the year 2000, the 
entire term of this current administration. While I am fully aware of 
the veto threat that this administration has issued on the conference 
report, I want to remind my colleagues that since the start of the Iraq 
conflict in 2003, nearly $42 billion has been appropriated at the 
request of the administration for Iraqi reconstruction, one-third of 
which, or $14 billion, is going towards Iraqi economic infrastructure.

I would daresay that if this level of attention is adequate for Iraqi 
water and road infrastructure, my State, as well as my constituents, 
who are constantly beleaguered by outdated flood protection, are as 
equally deserving of the attention afforded by H.R. 1495. I deeply 
regret that the administration has decided to turn its back on a bill 
that would put Americans to work with good-paying jobs, protect lives 
and property and bolster our Nation's infrastructure.

A recent report by the Texas Section of Civil Engineers assessed my 
State's infrastructure and rendered a dismal cumulative grade of below 
average. The assessment of the State's flood control fared even worse, 
with the State receiving a failing grade of D minus.

Over the past decade, Texas has experienced 15 federally declared 
disasters, most involving flooding. Moreover, Texas leads the Nation in 
terms of dollars paid for flood claims, second only to the State of 
Louisiana.

The population of Texas is expected to double in the next 30 to 40 
years. Development in and near flood plains can be expected to 
increase, as developers continue to build near the State's rivers, 
lakes and coastlines.

In my district, the Dallas Floodway accepts 1,600 square miles of 
Trinity River watershed runoff and safely moves the floodwaters through 
the City of Dallas by virtue of levees that form both sides of the 
2,000-foot-wide Floodway. The Floodway levees protect the downtown 
vicinity from a potential flood damage loss to properties and 
infrastructure at a price of $8 billion or more. This is a major 
economic area.

The 23 miles of levees for the Dallas Floodway were originally 
constructed by local interests in 1932 and reconstructed by the Corps 
in 1960. But, since 1960, the upstream watershed has experienced 
exploding population growth, and that was not expected, which has 
significantly increased runoff, overwhelmed our antiquated drainage 
pumps, and greatly reduced the flood protection afforded by the Dallas 
Floodway levees.

My district's flood control needs are great; and, like the other 
communities across this Nation, they are anxiously anticipating the 
resumption of a predictable, consistent, and 2-year water plan.

I am glad our work here today brings us one step closer to this 
reality. The product before us authorizes a number of studies and 
projects, particularly for the restoration of coastal Louisiana, the 
restoration of Florida Everglades and the restoration of the upper 
Mississippi River and the Illinois Waterway System.

Again, we do right by this country when we invest in its 
infrastructure. Communities across the country have been waiting 7 long 
years to begin their noteworthy flood control and water infrastructure 
projects. I am pleased that we have been able to put our heads together 
and once and for all advance this vitally important and long-overdue 
legislation for the American people.

I want to extend my thanks again to the bipartisan committee 
leadership of both Chambers and, most especially, the efforts of our 
dedicated staff persons who have spent countless hours in crafting the 
conference report.

I strongly urge my colleagues to vote ''yes'' on this conference 
report to H.R. 1495. The time to act is now.