# None
## `d5f8f3fd800d55a075ecf234c5298ef1`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 15 March 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. I am so glad that you went through those 
benchmarks and stressed that these were the President's benchmarks that 
we used. The President, on January 10, outlined the benchmarks for 
success, that he felt were imperative that we need.

Those were that we must give the United States the authority to 
pursue all extremists, we must rein in the militias and have Iraqis 
step up to the plate to enforce security. They have to decide how their 
oil revenues are going to be distributed. That is a very important 
benchmark that has to be accomplished, and they have to pass 
reconciliation initiatives to keep their country together. Their 
country is essentially about to fall apart. They are in the midst of 
civil war and are absolutely at the breaking point.

Besides those benchmarks that we had in that supplemental that we 
passed out of the Appropriations Committee today, and besides the 
incredibly necessary emergency funding that the troops need and that 
our veterans need, we also put provisions in that legislation to make 
sure that our troops can catch their breath.

I referred to that soldier who I met in Walter Reed, whose little boy 
just wanted him to come home, and who had missed half his little boy's 
life. We have soldiers, many, many soldiers, who have completed three 
tours of duty, are about to go on their fourth, who are deployed for 
365 days and then that deployment is extended.

The language we put in that bill ensures and says to the Army that 
they need to make sure that those deployments are not beyond 365 days.



The President can waive that provision by submitting a report to 
Congress detailing why that unit's deployment is in the interest of 
national security. But that is the kind of accountability that we are 
inserting to protect our troops, to make sure that the President 
certifies that that deployment, that extension is absolutely essential 
to protect national security, despite the assessment that the unit is 
not fully mission capable.

Our readiness is shot. We are spread so incredibly thin, and we are 
talking about the impact on human beings' lives.

How about the length of deployment? The language in our bill requires 
the Defense Department to abide by its current policy and avoid 
extending the deployment of units in Iraq in excess of the 365 days. We 
have to make sure that those units are fully mission capable, and the 
time between deployments is essential as well.

The Defense Department would be required to abide by, again, its 
current policy and avoid sending units back into Iraq before troops get 
the required time out of the combat zone and training time, 365 days 
for the Army, and 210 days for the Marines. And the President can also 
waive that provision in the interest of national security. He just has 
to certify to Congress that that is the case.

And that is the kind of accountability that the American people 
insisted upon on November 7. They asked us for a new direction, in the 
6 in 2006 items of our agenda that we have already passed, and they 
insisted that we move this war in a new direction so that there would 
be an end in sight, so that the President would no longer have a blank 
check, and so that we could make sure we could protect our men and 
women in uniform who are protecting us. And I would be happy to yield 
to the gentleman. And I am going to have to take my leave of the 
gentleman because I have constituents that are in town that I need to 
speak with. I look forward to you carrying on