---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `d5fa33924b3ce8546e2f13e7844ed53b`
`Mr. NADLER of New York — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. NADLER of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to reluctantly 
support the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009, H.R. 2346.

A lot has changed since we last voted on supplemental spending bills 
for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The American people have spoken 
and we have elected a new President who has promised to end the 
conflict in Iraq. The President ordered a full review of our military 
policy and announced a firm date for the removal of combat troops from 
Iraq--August 2010. It is not as early as I would have liked, but he has 
announced that the end is in sight and he will draw that conflict to a 
close. This bill is consistent with that plan to safely redeploy our 
troops out of Iraq.

I am, however, deeply concerned about our plans for Afghanistan. 
Immediately following the attacks of September 11, 2001, I fully 
supported the initial war in Afghanistan. I support our efforts to 
destroy terrorist training camps and to pursue and defeat Al-Qaeda 
wherever it may be. I support providing the military equipment and 
support to our troops that they need to ensure their safety.

I am more concerned, frankly, with the problem of mission creep. It 
is one thing to seek to ensure that Al-Qaeda cannot use sanctuaries in 
Afghanistan to plan attacks on the United States. It is quite another 
to seek to remake Afghanistan. I doubt very much that we will be able 
to eradicate their poppy crops, end corruption, and ensure equal rights 
for all in Afghanistan. Nor is it our job to remake Afghanistan.

I am voting for this bill today, because it provides the funds for an 
orderly withdrawal from Iraq to an Administration I trust to arrange 
such an orderly withdrawal as soon as possible. It also supplies funds 
for aid to Israel, for combating HIV/AIDS, for combating the swine flu, 
and for many other worthwhile projects. But I want to be clear. I will 
not support an open-ended long term commitment in Afghanistan. I am 
concerned that the goals may very well be too ambitious, too vague, and 
too costly--in lives and treasure--for our country. I will continue to 
monitor the situation closely, and I will oppose funding for 
unrealistic mission creep.

I do not take these votes lightly, and these votes do not occur in a 
vacuum. As circumstances both on the ground and, quite frankly, within 
the United States government change, each vote for military funding 
must be considered on its own merits. At this point, with a new 
Administration here in the United States and with the situation in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan particularly dire, I have decided to vote in 
favor of the Supplemental Appropriations Act.