# None
## `d5fd2f7eba1fcc42096084f20e7c0e49`
`Mr. KING of Iowa â€” 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Georgia and appreciate 
your yielding, Mr. Gingrey.

Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to join with my colleagues 
to raise our voices in unison in support of our Commander in Chief and 
the Commander of the Iraqi forces, General Petraeus, with whom I have 
had a significantly long working relationship for quite some time, and 
for all the troops that have fallen in line behind the Commander in 
Chief and behind General Petraeus all the way out across the board.

I have personally made five trips to Iraq. I've been to Afghanistan. 
Each time that I go over there, I stop in at Landstuhl. I visit the 
wounded. I see the price that's being paid. I see the dedication in 
their eyes. And I believe it's a little stronger in the eyes of those 
at Landstuhl than it is in those who are standing at attention in Iraq 
or those that are on duty in Iraq. But all them, all of them, have put 
their lives on the line. They are all volunteers.

And I think back to a time at a Thanksgiving dinner in Baghdad 
actually, and the command sergeant major gave me that look that was 
like I'd like to talk to you off on the side. And I walked over to the 
side, and he said, I know war is expensive, but we're all volunteers 
here. We are not just volunteers for this mission. We have volunteered 
for the military. We've all re-upped since the beginning of this war, 
and we all knew that we had a very high likelihood of being deployed 
here. We want to come here. And I volunteered for this because I want 
to take this fight from my children and my grandchildren. I want it 
done in my time. I know war is expensive, but you can't say ''no'' to 
us. You cannot pull us out now, not after this sacrifice, not this 
time. We have got to finish this fight that's before us.

And that's a conversation I will never forget, and I will never 
forget the look in his eye as he delivered that to me. That's some of 
the best that we have, our command sergeant majors. And this one fried 
that into my memory. And I think he has expressed for the fighting men 
and women over there what they want us all to hear on the floor of 
Congress and what they want the American people to know. If they're 
willing to take the risk, if they're willing to provide the sacrifice, 
how are we to say ''no''?