# None
## `d600f58e54a9fa097048baa05cfb3501`
`Mr. SUNUNU — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. SUNUNU. Mr. President, I will speak as in morning business. I 
thank Senator Reed for giving me the opportunity to speak briefly 
before his remarks in support of legislation that I do hope the Senate 
will act on today; that is, legislation to dedicate the post office in 
East Hampton, NH, in honor of Army Ranger CPT Jonathan Grassbaugh, who 
was killed in action on April 7 this year in Iraq.

Mr. President, on behalf of Hampstead, New Hampshire middle school 
students, school board officials, board of selectmen, and residents, I 
rise to honor a fallen hero, United States Army Ranger Captain Jonathan 
David Grassbaugh, by introducing a bill to designate the United States 
Postal Service facility at 59 Colby Corner in East Hampstead, NH, as 
the ''Captain Jonathan D. Grassbaugh Post Office.''

Jon, as he was called by his family and friends, moved to East 
Hampstead, NH, from St. Marys, OH, in 1989. He attended Hampstead 
Central Elementary School and Hampstead Middle School where his mother, 
Patricia, is principal.

Jon graduated high school from Phillips Exeter Academy, in Exeter, 
New Hampshire, where he was a four-year honor student in the Class of 
1999. Jon left a remarkable impression on the Phillips Exeter 
community; remembered for his manifestation of the motto ''Non Sibi'' 
or ''Not for Oneself,'' a Latin phrase inscribed on the Academy's seal. 
Jon exemplified his passion for life through his persistent dedication 
to his studies, tireless volunteer efforts in school and the local 
community, and commitment to the Academy's radio station, Grainger 
Observatory, and the school's Washington Internship Program.

Jon's illustrious high school years were prologue to a promising 
future, full of infinite potential. Jon enrolled at Johns Hopkins 
University where he graduated in 2003, earning a bachelor's degree in 
computer science from the renowned Whiting School of Engineering.

At a young age, Jon's family instilled in him the importance of 
volunteerism and service to the United States. Jon's father, Mark 
proudly served three and a half years as an Army Ranger during Vietnam, 
and his older brother, West Point Alum and Dartmouth Medical School 
graduate, Army Captain Dr. Jason Grassbaugh, is currently serving as an 
orthopedic surgeon in Fort Lewis, WA. Jon continued this family 
tradition of service, joining the Johns Hopkins Army ROTC Program, and 
eventually becoming battalion commander his senior year. He also became 
a proud member of the Pershing Rifles fraternal organization, captained 
the Ranger Challenge Team, and won the national two-man duet drill team 
competition.

In a storybook setting, Jon met Jenna Parkinson, a freshman ROTC 
cadet from Boxborough, MA, during his senior year. Jon and Jenna slowly 
grew closer, watching movies together during spring break, sharing 
flights to and from school, and attending the military ball. A few 
short years later, Jon proposed to Jenna on April 30, 2005, and the 
young couple subsequently married on June 9, 2006, in a Cape Cod 
ceremony. Prior to their wedding day, Jon and Jenna filled out a 
questionnaire for their officiate which asked, ''Where is a sacred 
spot, a place where you feel most connected, most at peace and most 
inspired?'' Jon's answer came in three loving words: ''With my wife.''

Following graduation, Jon completed U.S. Army Ranger School in April 
2004 and served his country both at home and abroad. He was assigned to 
the 7th Cavalry in The Republic of South Korea and served as a member 
of the Army Hurricane Katrina Relief Team. Later, Jon was assigned to 
the 5th Squadron, 73rd Cavalry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 82nd 
Airborne Division in Fort Bragg, NC, where he and the now U.S. Army 2nd 
Lieutenant Jenna Grassbaugh would reside.

Shortly after Jon and Jenna were married, he was deployed for a 
second tour of duty in Iraq. Tragically, on April 7, 2007, Jon was one 
of four soldiers who died while conducting a combat logistics patrol in 
Zaganiyah, Iraq. Throughout Jon's distinguished military service, he 
received a number of accolades and commendations, including: the Bronze 
Star Medal, Purple Heart Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, Army 
Commendation Medal, Joint Service Achievement Medal, Army Achievement 
Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Iraqi Campaign Medal, Global War 
on Terrorism Service Medal, Korean Defense Service Medal, Humanitarian 
Service Medal, Army Service Ribbon, Ranger Tab, Combat Action Badge, 
and Parachutist Badge.

Jon is remembered as a confident and mentally strong leader, whose 
poise under pressure, intelligence, compassion, and love for God, 
country and family transcends his passing. His valor on the field of 
battle was equally as impressive as his undying loyalty to and love for 
his squadron. One well-known anecdote recalls a combat operation in 
which Jon had pizza flown by helicopter from 100 kilometers away to 
where his troops were conducting combat operations in an effort to lift 
morale. Jon left a legacy that continues to inspire our Nation's future 
leaders from Hampstead and Exeter, New Hampshire, Johns Hopkins, and 
those he proudly served beside in Iraq.

On a deep and personal note, for those who had the sincere privilege 
and honor to meet Jon, it was evident his exuberance for life and new 
experiences, ingenuity, and academic acumen destined him for greatness. 
By the time of his death, Jon had achieved more than most individuals 
do in a lifetime, a testimonial to his family's love and guidance 
through his young life, and Jenna's warmth and support as he fought for 
our Nation.

Today, Jonathan Grassbaugh rests in peace at one of our Nation's most 
hallowed and sacred grounds, Arlington National Cemetery--his rightful 
place among generations of brave Americans who sacrificed their lives 
in defense of this country. His loved ones will forever remember him as 
a loving husband, son, brother, and friend. Let it be known, the 
citizens of New Hampshire and our Nation are eternally in debt to 
Jonathan David Grassbaugh, an honorable son of New Hampshire, an 
American Patriot, and a guardian of liberty.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that a copy of the Hampstead, 
NH, Board of Selectmen's letter of support to dedicate the East 
Hampstead, NH, Post Office, as the ''Captain Jonathan D. Grassbaugh 
Post Office'' be printed in the Record.