# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--
## `d613ca20f1f664845fb83948f5f3fa59`
`Mr. LEAHY — 25 May 2010`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I wish to speak about the Sessions 
amendment to the supplemental appropriations bill. This is the 
amendment that would cap discretionary spending this year and for 
future years, irrespective of the needs of the government and the 
American people.

I know our distinguished chairman, Senator Inouye, has already spoken 
about it. I note this is the fourth time the Senate has been asked to 
vote on this amendment. The last three times it was defeated. Now we 
have to vote on it again. Perhaps we should have a rule here that after 
three strikes you are out.

The amendment uses last year's budget resolution as its starting 
point. It will cut over $20 billion from the President's fiscal year 
2011 budget request.

I share the goal of the sponsors of this amendment to limit Federal 
spending. Since I have been in the Senate, I have voted for billions of 
dollars in cuts in Federal spending. But the way this amendment is 
done, using a sledgehammer instead of a scalpel, it arbitrarily affects 
every Federal program in ways that most certainly will come back to 
haunt us.

Not only will critical programs from defense to education to foreign 
policy be cut, the amendment requires a vote of three-fifths of the 
Senate for emergency spending, and in a mere 14 pages it seeks to 
basically do away with the role of the Budget Committee.

I would hate to see a situation where, if we have a flood in 
Mississippi, and for some reason or another a minority of Senators say: 
Our states didn't have a flood, so why should we vote for this? Or if 
there were an earthquake in California and they need three-fifths, but 
a minority of Senators has other priorities. That's not the way it 
should work.

I must admit, I take a somewhat long view of it. I have not been here 
as long as our distinguished chairman has or our distinguished former 
chairman, Senator Byrd. But I have been here longer than everybody else 
in this body. I urge people to be careful what they wish for. It 
appears that requiring 60 votes and the gridlock we are currently 
experiencing is not enough. The sponsors of this amendment want the 
body to be held hostage to a minority of two-fifths. As the chairman of 
the Appropriations Committee said earlier, it is the wrong direction 
for the Senate to be going.

Let me focus my brief remarks specifically on the effect the Sessions 
amendment would have on important national security programs funded in 
the State and foreign operations budget for fiscal year 2011 which 
begins on October 1.

The amendment would cut $1.1 billion from the President's State and 
foreign operations budget request. A cut of that size would have 
significant and, I suspect, unintended consequences.

I hope the proponents of this amendment or their constituents are not 
among those who want travel overseas and want their passports processed 
in a timely manner.

I hope they do not mind that our embassies are not fully staffed and 
cannot properly represent Americans abroad. I hope if something happens 
to them or their constituents in Mexico, Kenya, Turkey, or any other 
foreign place and there is not an American consular officer who can 
help them in an emergency, that they will not complain because their 
amendment cut the funding for that consular officer's salary.

I hope it does not matter that we would only be able to fund a 
portion of the global health and food security initiatives which, among 
other things, provide funds for maternal and child health and to 
prevent and respond to outbreaks of deadly contagious diseases, such as 
cholera, Ebola, and the Asian flu.

I point out that these are not just threats in places halfway around 
the world, they are only a plane trip away from our shores.

I hope the sponsors of this amendment are not concerned that it may 
mean we have to cut funding for exchange programs for students of 
predominantly Muslim countries where we are trying to show a different 
face of America, or democracy programs in the former Soviet Union or 
training programs for Iraqi police officers. There is a price for 
everything, and the funding for State and foreign operations is one of 
the best bargains in the Federal budget.

Contrary to what some may believe, it consists of barely 1 percent of 
the entire budget. Aside from the U.S. military, it is how the United 
States exerts its influence around the globe. As we are trying to show 
in many parts of the globe, it is not just our military might that 
defines America, it is our global reach in humanitarian emergencies and 
diplomacy.

At a time when China is sharply increasing its spending for these 
same types of activities and extending its sphere of influence to our 
hemisphere and around the world because they know it is in their 
Nation's best interest to do so, do we really want to cut the funding 
that enables the United States to compete? It makes no sense.

I note that even though it is in the State Department budget, top 
officials at the Pentagon understand this very well. Secretary Gates 
and Admiral Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have both 
urged the Congress to fully fund the State and foreign operations 
budget. They know these are areas where our diplomats can handle things 
better at far less cost and with longer lasting effects.

The sponsors of this amendment have supported the deployment of our 
troops in Afghanistan and Iraq. They have voted to borrow the money--
the only


time, certainly, in my lifetime, that we have gone to war anywhere and 
not paid for it. But military force alone, even though it is exerted 
through great sacrifice by the very brave men and women in our 
military, can only provide the conditions for longer term economic and 
political stability in those countries. The State and Foreign 
Operations budget provides the funds to build that economic growth and 
political stability.


I ask unanimous consent the letters from both Secretary Gates and 
Admiral Mullen be printed in the Record at the end of my remarks.