---
---

# REFUGEE CRISIS IN IRAQ ACT
## `d620019ec1bfe3512a56e6127fa9eb32`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 23 July 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, yesterday's Washington Post included 
details from a memo by our Ambassador to Iraq, Ryan Crocker, in which 
he makes a strong case that we need to do more to make it possible for 
Iraqis employed by our government to come to the United States.

Ambasador Crocker emphasizes the growing danger facing these Iraqis, 
who as he states ''work under extremely difficult conditions, and are 
targets for violence including murder and kidnapping.'' According to 
the article, Ambassador Crocker has called for establishment of an 
immigrant visa program for these Iraqi employees.

In fact, Senators Smith, Biden, Hagel, Lieberman, Leahy, Levin, and I 
have introduced legislation which establishes a program to do precisely 
what Ambassador Crocker calls for.

Our legislation establishes an immigrant visa program for Iraqis who 
have worked for or directly with the United States government for at 
least 1 year. Our Government now provides such special immigrant visas 
but only for Iraqi and Afghan translators and interpreters. Our bill 
expands it to include Iraqis in other professions who have been 
employed by us or who have worked directly with us.

In addition, our legislation creates additional options for Iraqis 
who are under threat because of their close association with the United 
States to apply to our refugee resettlement program.

The Senate is obviously divided on the best overall policy to pursue 
on the war. I thought it was a mistake from the beginning. That is no 
secret. Some of our colleagues are convinced that continuing the use of 
military force in Iraq is necessary to protect our national security.

But our divisions on that issue should not obscure the fact that all 
of


us on both sides of the aisle agree that America owes an immense debt 
of gratitude to these Iraqis, and we have a special responsibility to 
help them. They have supported our effort, saved American lives, and 
are clearly at great risk because of it.

David Keene, chairman of the American Conservative Union, recognized 
this obligation and called for action in a June 12 article in ''The 
Hill.'' He recalled a Vietnamese friend who did not make it out of 
Vietnam when the U.S. left, and said, ''There are in Iraq today untold 
numbers of people like my Vietnamese friend who rushed to our aid when 
we arrived and have worked with us since. If we abandon them, they may 
not be so lucky.''

Similarly, in a June 24 op-ed in the Washington Post, Julia Taft 
called for swift action to assist Iraqis whose lives are in danger 
because of their work with our government. Ms. Taft served as director 
of the Interagency Task Force for Indochinese Refugee Resettlement in 
the Ford Administration and was later Assistant Secretary of State for 
Population, Refugees and Migration. She wrote about an Iraqi couple 
working for the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad who had been kidnapped and 
executed.

She said:




 They are among the most recent of thousands of cases in 


 which Iraqis affiliated with the United States have been 


 forced into hiding, tortured or, often, killed . . . I found 


 myself thinking of this husband and wife last week . . . and 


 struggling with a terrible contradiction. The United States 


 is the world's most generous contributor to refugee relief, 


 and we have always taken the lead on resettling refugees. Yet 


 our country has done the bare minimum to help these Iraqis 


 facing death and exile.


In her call for action, Taft said, ''The administration and Congress 
cannot waste any more time. Their lack of political will has cost too 
many people their lives. . . .''

In a July 19 op-ed in USA Today, Michael Medved, a conservative 
Republican who supports the ongoing war effort, and Lanny J. Davis, a 
liberal Democrat who supports the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq, 
called for swift and bold action to help Iraqi refugees.

They wrote:




 One issue should bring together all factions of the ongoing 


 debate, and that is America's moral obligation to open our 


 doors--immediately--to Iraqis who face danger and death 


 because of their assistance to our forces.


They specifically called for action on our legislation, saying:




 Last month, a bipartisan group of senators, including 


 Kennedy, who is anti-war, and Lieberman, who supports the 


 war, introduced legislation that would provide special 


 refugee status for Iraqis who are in danger because of their 


 association with the United States or its contractors. This 


 legislation, or something like it, needs strong support from 


 the administration as well as from citizens across 


 ideological and partisan lines. . . . days, even hours, could 


 mean the difference between life and death for people who did 


 nothing wrong other than help Americans.


Many Iraqis have been working with our Armed Forces, our diplomatic 
mission, and our reconstruction teams in Iraq and have performed 
valiantly, and their lives are at risk. Many have lost their lives and 
many more have lost their homes, their property, and their livelihood. 
For some, it will be too dangerous to ever return home.

America has a special obligation to keep faith with the Iraqis who 
now have a bulls-eye on their back because of their association with 
our Government.

Our bipartisan legislation will establish the kind of process that 
Ambassador Crocker, David Keene, Julia Taft, Roy Medved, Lanny Davis, 
and many others have called for to help these Iraqis who have 
sacrificed so much for the United States. I ask unanimous consent that 
the Washington Post article and other articles I have mentioned be 
printed in the Record.

I urge my colleagues to support our legislation, S. 1651, to keep the 
faith with the many brave Iraqis whose lives are in great danger 
because they have the courage to work with the United States.