# COMMENDING THE CONGRESS OF LEADERS OF WORLD AND TRADITIONAL RELIGIONS  FOR CALLING UPON ALL NATIONS TO LIVE IN PEACE AND MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING
## `d630877ba9e89abebbb463073bd24779`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 26 June 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of 
H. Res. 535, to commend the Congress of Leaders of World and 
Traditional Religions for their call to action for the nations of our 
world to work toward peace and mutual understanding. Established in 
2003, the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is 
comprised of our world's major religions, including Buddhism, 
Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Shinto, and Taoism. Since its 
founding, the Congress has promulgated the tenet that religion should 
not be seen as a divisive limitation within the global community, but 
rather world religions should be the benchmark and arbiter for 
resolving ongoing international political conflicts. Accordingly, we 
turn to our global religious leaders to be the driving force in 
maintaining peace.

As a Member of Congress from Houston, Texas, my district is one of 
religious diversity. I represent constituents from all faiths and 
religious beliefs, and I stand here before you Madam Speaker to say 
that as a Representative of the 18th District of Texas, I am a 
humanitarian first and foremost. I believe in celebrating our 
differences in global theology, and in utilizing these differences as 
the basis of tolerance as we engage in multilateral interfaith 
dialogue.

As a Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I have worked hard to 
pass legislation in the foreign affairs arena which speaks to the 
importance of tolerance and recognizes the need for multilateralism. 
With respect to Pakistan and Afghanistan, I have worked to pass H.R. 
2410 and H.R. 1886 which allocate U.S. support for both Afghanistan and 
Pakistan respectively. In turn, H.R. 2410 and H.R. 1886 emphasize the 
necessity of ongoing multilateral engagement with the U.S. in order to 
forge strong and enduring partnerships with these countries in a united 
effort to bridge global security disparity.

In his internationally esteemed doctrine on nonviolent protest, 
Mahatma Gandhi so eloquently stated, ''All faiths constitute a 
revelation of Truth, but all are imperfect and liable to error. 
Reverence to other faiths need not blind us to their faults. We must be 
keenly alive to the defects of our own faith, and must not leave it on 
that account but try to overcome those defects. Looking at all 
religions with an equal eye, we would not only not hesitate but would 
think it our duty to adopt into our faith every acceptable feature of 
other faiths.'' In deference to Gandhi's wisdom, we must work toward 
our own ''Revelation of Truth,'' in an international context. Despite 
the imperfections within every world religion, we must turn to our 
religious leaders to set the tone for understanding. We must work in 
concert to engage in interfaith dialogue to maintain peace and security 
in the world.

H. Res. 535 applauds the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional 
Religions for regularly holding forums that address the need for 
religious freedom. Its inclusion of more than 26 nations, such as 
Israel, Egypt, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Libya, Armenia, South Korea, 
China, India, and the United States as its representatives is to be 
commended. The third Congress will be held in Astana, Kazakhstan, July 
1-2, 2009, and I would like to recognize Kazakhstan for having been 
selected by the Secretariat to host the second and third Congress. As 
we move forward to promote freedom of religion and engage in interfaith 
dialogue as the foundation to global security, we turn to the Congress 
of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions to guide us in 
multilateral reform. I urge passage of this important resolution.



