# None
## `d63db4402135d0717f254a19ddb5a541`
`Ms. LEE — 6 November 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Madam Speaker, let me thank the gentleman for yielding me 
this time and for his diligent and fair leadership on the Rules 
Committee. Let me also thank Chairman Obey for this bill and for your 
tireless efforts in crafting this legislation.

Our spending priorities do reflect our values as a country, and 
during this week, which some of you heard last night, this is National 
Bible Week. I think it is very important as we debate this bill to 
remember some of the statements and speeches that were made last night 
with regard to caring for the least of these.

I am pleased we were able to fund critical programs under the 
Department of Health and Human Services, programs like nurses education 
and the Ryan White CARE Act and the Minority AIDS Initiative. I look 
forward to working with our colleagues to try to increase funding for 
all of our AIDS initiatives in the coming year.

I also want to thank the committee for funding critical education 
programs. What are we saying to the American people when we pass 
legislation that funds education, like the 21st Century Community 
Learning Centers, TRIO, GEAR UP, Upward Bound, and programs that 
strengthen Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Hispanic-
serving universities. We are saying these are our priorities. These are 
the programs that we care about and want to see implemented which 
invest in our children's future.

Madam Speaker, much has been said and reported about the President's 
veto threat. What does this senseless veto threat say to the American 
people? It says that the President's priority is funding an occupation 
in Iraq as opposed to investing in the future of our country.

We are now spending $12 billion a month in Iraq. For the price of 1 
month of our occupation in Iraq, we could be paying for 1.5 million 
children to go to Head Start for a whole year. We could hire 200,000 
new school teachers for a year, and we could even insure 7 million of 
the 8.7 million children living in this country that do not have health 
care insurance for a whole year.

This is a fundamental question where we should spend our priorities. 
We actually could continue to spend our tax dollars on a war without 
end, or we could use our tax dollars to spend on our children, our 
schools, our communities and on our veterans who have valiantly 
sacrificed so much. They deserve an ''aye'' vote on this rule and the 
underlying conference report.



Let's remember this is National Bible Week and let us do what the 
Scriptures would dictate on this bill and support the rule and the bill 
for the least of these.