---
---

# ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
## `d63f5a68eea90e853744fdee9876baf7`
`Mr. ARCURI — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Mr. Chairman, it is time to rein in this administration's 
prevalent use of no-bid contracts. I urge all my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle to support this rule and the Accountability in 
Contracting Act.

In the last five years, spending on ''no-bid'' or ''sole-source'' 
contracts has more than doubled. The administration contends that in 
every one of these cases there were ''urgent and compelling needs'' 
that required these contracts to be awarded without a competitive 
bidding process. In the case of the emergency response to disasters 
like hurricanes Katrina and Rita, I don't dispute that the need was 
urgent, but for non-emergency contracting needs, we must get our fiscal 
house in order.

Just as any family has a budget to stick to, shouldn't we reach a 
point after an emergency when there has been enough time to consider 
multiple, competitive bids? A point after which the ''compelling 
needs'' are a little less urgent? By last June--nine months after 
Hurricane Katrina--$10.6 billion had been awarded to private 
contractors for recovery efforts, but only 30 percent of that had been 
awarded competitively.

I know of no small business in Upstate New York, who could get by 
without reasonably budgeting for their expenses--even in times of 
emergency. Why should taxpayer dollars be spent differently?

Oversight of these contracts has been no better. Audits have revealed 
that post-Katrina contractors have over-billed, double-billed, and 
billed for work that was never completed. The Defense Contractor Audit 
Agency found that through fiscal year 2006, over $10 billion in 
contractor charges in Iraq have been identified as ''questioned'' or 
''unsupported.''

Under this administration, the use of ''cost plus'' contracts has 
increased more than seventy-five percent. These cost-plus contracts 
guarantee a contractor a fixed profit, regardless of how efficiently 
they spend the government's money--taxpayers' money. These contracts 
provide no incentive to look after the bottom line because they 
guarantee there will always be money off the top. When indefinite, no-
bid contracts contain ''cost-plus'' provisions, the opportunity for 
foul play is only amplified.

The Accountability in Contracting Act addresses these concerns. This 
bill limits to roughly 8 months the time that federal no-bid contracts 
can last. It requires each federal agency that has awarded at least $1 
billion in the preceding fiscal year to develop and implement a plan to 
minimize the use of contracts entered into using no-bid procedures and 
cost-reimbursement type contracts. The bill also establishes a system 
to increase competition in contract bidding and requires agencies that 
enter into a no-bid contract to make ''justification and approval'' 
documents public within fourteen days after awarding a contract.

Mr. Chairman, we have a responsibility to the American people to 
spend their hard-earned tax dollars in a fiscally responsible way. And 
the Accountability in Contracting Act will help reach that end by 
providing much-needed transparency to the way the federal government 
awards contracts.