# None
## `d644790ffbe109b9cea42b295d129a98`
`Mr. CASEY — 20 June 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I rise today to recognize June 20 as 
World Refugee Day, a day designated by the United Nations General 
Assembly to highlight and celebrate the contribution of refugees 
throughout the world. World Refugee Day has evolved into an annual 
commemoration marked by a variety of events in over a hundred 
countries, including in my home State of Pennsylvania.

I am proud to note that, since the mid-1970s, more than 100,000 
refugees from more than 30 nations have made Pennsylvania their home, 
enriching the cultural diversity and strengthening the economy of the 
Commonwealth. Over time, most have succeeded in adjusting to life in 
Pennsylvania and the majority have naturalized as U.S. citizens and 
actively participate in local community life.

This day gives us an important opportunity to pause and appreciate 
the grave humanitarian situation refugees face worldwide. Forced to 
flee their homes and having lost everything, these people have 
immediate needs including shelter, food, safety, and protection. But 
they also have basic human rights--the right to seek asylum, the right 
not to be returned to a country where they fear persecution, the right 
to work, and the right to send their children safely to school.

Between 2001 and 2005, the international community witnessed a 
decline in the number of refugees worldwide. Unfortunately, this trend 
has reversed. By the end of 2007, there was a 115 percent increase over 
just 2 years in the number of refugees under the responsibility of the 
United Nations High Commission for Refugees--UNHCR. We are now talking 
about a staggering 11.4 million refugees worldwide. The number of 
internally displaced people worldwide is also up, from 24.4 million to 
26 million.

Among refugees, Afghans and Iraqis account for nearly half of all 
refugees under UNHCR's care worldwide. Much of the increase in refugees 
in 2007 was a result of the volatile situation in Iraq. It has been 5 
years since the fall of Baghdad, and Iraq and her neighbors are in the 
midst of a humanitarian crisis that threatens the stability of the 
Middle East.

Wherever one stands on the future of the U.S. combat presence in 
Iraq, we have a moral responsibility to those innocent Iraqis who have 
been driven from their homes and fear for their lives and their 
children's lives every day. Violence and sectarian conflict are an ever 
present reality in Iraq, driving away anywhere from one to two thousand 
Iraqis from their homes every day.

The numbers are sobering. One in five Iraqis have been displaced. The 
UNHCR estimates more than 4.7 million Iraqis have left their homes, 
many in dire need of humanitarian care. Of these, more than 2.7 million 
Iraqis are displaced internally, while more than 2 million have fled to 
neighboring states, particularly Syria and Jordan. In 2006, Iraqis 
became the leading nationality seeking asylum in Europe.

I witnessed firsthand the challenges facing Iraqi refugees last 
August when I spent time in Jordan meeting with United Nations and 
International Organization for Migration personnel. I can report that 
Iraqi refugees throughout


the region have become increasingly desperate and have nowhere to turn.

Since the beginning of the crisis, the Iraqi government has proven to 
be unwilling and unable to respond to the needs of vulnerable Iraqis. 
While the government has access to significant oil revenue, it is 
divided along sectarian lines and lacks both the institutional capacity 
and the political will to effectively address the growing crisis. 
Sectarian militia groups like the Mahdi Army are quickly filling this 
vacuum to provide services. The largest ''humanitarian'' organization 
in Iraq today is the Sadrist movement affiliated with anti-American 
Shiite cleric Muqtada al Sadr, whose programs provide shelter and food 
to hundreds of thousands of Shiites in Iraq.

The international community, including the United States, has been 
largely in denial over the magnitude of the humanitarian crisis. Until 
recently, the conversation was always dominated by talk of 
reconstruction and development rather than addressing the basic, urgent 
needs of ordinary Iraqis. The United Nations only just issued a common 
humanitarian appeal for Iraq.

Now, we here in the United States have a moral responsibility to do 
right by the millions of Iraqis who have been driven away from their 
homes, particularly for those who have risked their lives to assist our 
country.

In 2007, Congress agreed to provide resettlement benefits for special 
immigrants from Iraq and Afghanistan who helped the United States, 
helped us, and to increase from 500 to 5,000 the number of special 
immigrants from Iraq we will admit into this country. Both measures 
passed the Senate by unanimous votes.

The American people have responded with their customary generosity 
and caring spirit in welcoming these Iraqis into our Nation. I am proud 
to note that my home State of Pennsylvania has been a leader in helping 
to resettle our Iraqi allies. The city of Erie, PA, alone has resettled 
about 90 Iraqis during this fiscal year. But the overall progress in 
resettling our courageous Iraqi allies has been frustratingly slow due 
to Government bureaucracy and logjams. Along with colleagues from the 
Senate and the House, I sent a letter to President Bush today 
questioning the progress the administration is making on processing 
resettlement claims for Iraqis who have worked for us and whose lives 
have been placed in great danger as a result of such service for us.

There is also the larger issue of dealing with the millions of Iraqi 
refugees in the Middle East. Iraqi refugees are overwhelming the basic 
infrastructure of Iraq's neighbors, especially Jordan, Syria, and 
Lebanon, raising troubling concerns about the region's stability and 
shifting sectarian balances. As Refugee International notes, the Iraqi 
refugee crisis is essentially exporting Iraq's instability to its 
neighbors.

Beyond the obvious humanitarian and moral dimensions, this crisis has 
grave implications for our national security interests, our U.S. 
national security interests, in the Middle East.

It is time for us to acknowledge the humanitarian crisis in Iraq that 
is spilling over into neighboring countries. We must firmly demonstrate 
our commitment to resettling Iraqi refugees and working with other 
governments in the Middle East and in Europe to provide humanitarian 
assistance and support.

The Iraqi Government must accept responsibility to care for all--
all--of its citizens and the international assistance needed to improve 
its capacity to do so in a just manner.

Let me conclude by saying how impressed I am, as are all Americans, 
and I continue to be so impressed by our brave men and women who have 
served in Iraq and Afghanistan and have returned home to advocate that 
more be done to help Iraqis and those who are in Afghanistan who are at 
risk, particularly those who have risked their lives in service to the 
United States of America. Let us in Congress follow their example and 
keep fighting to help those in the world who are most in need. After 
all, that is the great legacy of this country.

I yield the floor.