# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `d64888aa99d9eeabad371784f14fdb46`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 28 July 2009`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce today, with my 
colleagues Senators Kerry, Lugar, and Corker, legislation that will 
help strengthen the foreign assistance efforts of the United States. We 
have put together a piece of legislation that helps move our collective 
foreign assistance efforts in the right direction.

I am pleased that we have worked very closely and in a bipartisan 
fashion on this legislation and I want to thank my colleagues for their 
work. Foreign assistance is something that is of great interest to many 
members of the Foreign Relations Committee. While we may disagree on 
the overall resources that should be devoted to development assistance, 
I think we all agree that the resources we do provide should be used in 
the best way possible.

I also want to thank the broader community of people who have been 
supportive of these efforts for years. I cannot tell you how many 
letters from people in New Jersey and from around the country I have 
received on these issues. These individuals, and the groups who help 
advocate for these issues are an important voice in the process.

President Obama has pledged to double foreign assistance by 2012. In 
this context, it is now more important than ever for the Congress to 
know which U.S. Government programs are the best investments. Right 
now, we have too little evidence that is objective and independent 
about which U.S. Government Agencies should have their budgets 
increased and which should be held constant or decreased. This 
legislation will help provide a more objective basis for this kind of 
decisionmaking. It will help both the Congress and the administration 
to make smarter, more analytical decisions about which agencies should 
carry out what programs, and help build more rigorous analysis across 
U.S. Government programs that may be working on similar issues.

Foreign assistance is not just an issue of morality or an issue that 
is driven by a sense of doing what is right for the most 
disenfranchised around the world--these issues are directly in our 
national interests and our national security interests. Every time we 
provide credit to a farmer who is displaced or training to a woman who 
wants to run a business out of her home, we are making inroads to the 
bread and butter issues that people care about. When we provide an 
effective alternative to illicit economic activity, we are dealing a 
blow against drugs coming to the streets of New Jersey, and helping to 
build the institutions around the world that will provide the framework 
for stable and prosperous societies. We all want to live in a community 
where we can walk freely without fear of persecution, and without fear 
of our personal safety. No matter where you come from, these are a 
basic set of principles that resonate with all of us.


Congress needs to see results, the American people need to see 
results, and so do the millions of people around the world whose lives 
literally depend on our ability to carry out these programs in the 
smartest way possible. This is why we have included an independent 
monitoring mechanism to evaluate the impact of our foreign assistance 
programs. It's one thing to say that we handed out 500 textbooks or 
trained 200 teachers, but it's far different to say that we improved 
the aptitude of school children and that these improvements help 
connect them to meaningful employment, which raised their household 
income, which allowed them to eat better, access medical services, and 
so on . . . it's the difference between outputs and outcomes that we 
are trying to get at with the independent evaluation unit, as outlined 
in the legislation we are introducing today.

I have long believed that foreign assistance is a critical part of 
our overall engagement overseas and I have been a consistent advocate 
of stepping up our efforts in this area. In recent years, I have 
focused on building up the United States Agency for International 
Development, USAID, from the inside out--I have called for building-up 
the staff of USAID in a coherent and strategic manner--this bill will 
help do that.

Now that USAID is working alongside the Department of Defense in 
places like Iraq and Afghanistan, and immersed in complex situations 
like those in Pakistan, Sudan, or Sri Lanka, we need an agency that is 
nimble, responsive, and ahead of the curve. From staffing, resources, 
and training, our development tools need to be, at the very least at 
par, if not ahead of our diplomatic and defense efforts.

One way to start us along this path is to focus on USAID's 
leadership. It needs credible and high-profile leadership that can work 
in partnership with the Congress, the Department of State, the 
Department of Defense, and the National Security Council. The 
''development voice'' in our Government needs to be a ''heavyweight 
voice'' that commands respect both in Washington and around the world.

I believe USAID needs to take back resources and programs that have 
slowly been moved over to the Department of Defense. Having the 
Department of State or the Department of Defense control development 
strategy and resources, with USAID simply serving as an implementing 
agency, has caused confusion and ambiguity. We ask our military to plan 
and execute a lot of missions; development should not be one of them. 
Civilian resources should be appropriated to civilian agencies.

Staff at USAID needs to be rebuilt--not just with more people, but we 
need to make sure we have the right people and make sure we are 
attracting and retaining the best possible candidates. This bill will 
help us get there with the comprehensive human resource strategy that 
is mandated for human resources. We need to build up our foreign 
assistance programs not just where they used to be, but to where they 
need to be.



I look forward to continuing our work on these programs. This 
legislation is a start, but there is much more work to be done. Let me 
be clear--this bill, combined with additional resources is not going to 
fix everything--foreign assistance has its limits. However, I believe 
we have not yet approached this limit. More resources, and better-spent 
resources, combined with active diplomatic and economic engagement will 
help build the institutions that will create more stable political, 
social, and economic systems.

Only until we recognize that the success of those systems is deeply 
connected to the success of our own, will we begin to adequately 
address the joint challenges that threaten our national security, our 
economy, our way of life.