---
---

# BUDGET DEFICIT
## `d66356ca1b9c468a4c583e43bb647623`
`Mr. SPRATT — 9 February 2009`

---


Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Speaker, we are here this afternoon to talk about a 
serious subject, something gravely facing our country, and that is the 
budget deficit for this fiscal year 2009 and for the years thereafter 
for as far as the eye can see.

As we speak, the deficit for the year 2009, fiscal 2009, is soaring 
to record highs. CBO, the Congressional Budget Office, our budget shop, 
which is neutral and nonpartisan, has recently projected that the 
deficit for 2009 will be $1.2 trillion. And as high as this projection 
may be, our friends, it's probably a low-ball estimate.

It omits, for example, the supplemental to pay for our deployment in 
Afghanistan and Iraq, which will be around $70 billion for the 
remainder of this fiscal year; it assumes that the alternative minimum 
tax will stay in full force and effect reaching 20 or so million-income 
tax payers for whom it was never intended. This increases the revenues 
by $70 billion though AMT has, in fact, been omitted year so that it 
does not apply for middle-income taxpayers for whom it was not 
intended.

It also assumes that the tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003, despite 
the fact that we have huge deficits, will expire on December 31, 2010, 
and as provided by the law which enacted them in the first place.

When you add all of these into the equation--the Bush 
administration's last deficit, the deficit that we inherited from 
President Bush and must work our way out of--the deficit could easily 
top $1.4 trillion. It staggers the imagination.

These are deficits that happened on the watch of the Bush 
administration and under their fiscal policies. But we, as Democrats, 
won the election, and it is our responsibility to decide what should we 
do about the deficits left us.

Unfortunately, we've got forces converging on the budget which make 
it difficult to bring the deficit down to realistic terms. For example, 
we have the severest economic downturn in our economy since at least 
the first or second world war ended. So we have the mounting costs of 
counter-cyclical policies, TARP, the stimulus now pending in the 
Senate, the conservatorship of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. All of these 
things are hugely expensive. We have the rising costs of major 
entitlements--Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid--due to the 
retirement of the baby boomers.

We have defense budgeted and funded at historically high levels and 
sustained for an historically long period of time. Funds funded to 
front-end accounts, accounts in the budget which need to be funded 
adequately but are not. Transportation is a good example. It will 
exhaust its reserve early next year and run close to zero unless we can 
get funds back into that particular account.

Of course, as always there's education, which is not funded as 
robustly as many of us think it should be. And of course there are new 
topics--alternative energies and various incentives for increasing the 
energy supplies and making this country energy independent.



Then we have the renewal of existing tax cuts, which are slated to 
expire on December 31, 2010.

When we add all of these things in, in addition to the price 
commitments we have to do something about the climate and something 
about universal health care coverage, it becomes very, very difficult 
to do anything to the bottom line of the budget, despite the fact that 
it is bigger than it has ever been before in peace time.

The overarching question that faces this whole country as we incur 
these huge sums of debt is: How long will foreigners help us? How long 
will they keep buying our Treasury debt?

We have, therefore, the worst budget since World War II and the worst 
economy in which to work out the problems of these budgets. Every 
recession has its own pattern to it. But it is clear that it is 
difficult in every recession, any recession, to work out of the 
recession when you're swimming upstream, when the economy is working 
against you; to work out of a budget deficit when the economy is 
working against you.

Let me show you some charts, those who are listening. This is a 
simple bar graph. It shows that the Bush administration, when he came 
to office, had a phenomenal inheritance. A budgeting surplus over the 
next 10 years by $5.6 trillion. That was January, 2001.

By January, 2004, that surplus of $236 billion was gone. Vanished. In 
4 year's time, we went from a $236 billion surplus to a $412 billion 
deficit. This happened under the policies and the watch of the Bush 
administration.

This next chart portrays out over time the assets of this 
administration and the previous administration. This is the first 
George Bush administration. The first Mr. Bush. There was a significant 
decline in the budget at that point in time. But, when the Clinton 
administration came to office, President Clinton sent us a budget in 
February of 1993, on February 22, the first full significant action 
taken by his administration, and every year after the adoption of that 
budget by one vote in the House and one vote in the Senate, the bottom 
line is the budget got better and better and better, to point where we 
were at this point right here, 1997, 1998, the year 2000.

The budget was, in those years, balanced for the first time in recent 
memory. Then, in 2001, the year 2000, we had a surplus of $236 billion. 
The second Mr. Bush came to office here. You can see the bottom line 
got worse and worse and worse until there was a slight pickup here. 
But, then in the out years 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, the budget got worse 
and worse and worse, until the point it runs off the chart at the 
bottom of the page. That is the deficit we are now looking at, a 
deficit of as much as $1.4 trillion.

Now, that would be a concern under any circumstances. But, in the 
present situation, the deficits that we have incurred over the last 10 
years have largely been funded and financed by foreigners. Japan, 
China, Great Britain, Europe, and Pacific Rim countries. They have run 
trade surpluses with us and used the surplus dollars they hold to buy 
back our Treasury bills. It's a convenient short-term arrangement. But, 
over the long term, it means foreigners own more and more of our debt, 
and you find it hard to be totally independent as a country, certainly 
the world super power, when you're also the world's largest debtor.

As of 2008, the total amount of foreign-held Treasury securities had 
tripled under the Bush administration. Starting out at $1 trillion, it 
rose to $3.1 trillion--over $2 trillion--during the period 2001 to 
2008. That is the accumulation of foreign-held Treasury bills and 
certificates.

As for the total debt of the United States, this is where we began--
$5.7 trillion in 2001. That is where the total debt of the United 
States stood when Mr. Bush came to office. A substantial sum. But every 
year that number went up and up and up, to the point where, when he 
left office a couple of weeks ago, the amount of debt stood at $10.7 
trillion. Nearly doubled in an 8-year period of time--from $5.7 
trillion to $10.7 trillion. And, as a consequence of that, we are 
feeling the effects of it in all sectors of our economy.

Would the gentlelady from Massachusetts care to make a comment or a 
statement? I gladly yield time to her.

