# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `d66565294c3b5656dc478db9bbcdcb24`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 22 October 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, this bill is about making sure families 
have access to health care and children get a good education. It 
supports cutting-edge research, helps build a skilled workforce, and 
ensures that crucial services are in reach for people who most need 
them. Most important, it gives Americans hope that their Government is 
working for them.

These programs help every family and every community. They are 
priorities for me. I know they are priorities back home. So I want to 
thank Senator Harkin and Senator Specter for their leadership and 
important work on this bipartisan bill.

These programs should be priorities for this administration too. 
Unfortunately, President Bush has threatened to veto this legislation. 
He opposes this bill it because it represents an increase over his 
requested budget. He says it is ''irresponsible and excessive.'' Yet 
the $9 billion increase over the President's request represents a 
fraction of the $190 billion in emergency spending he wants this year 
for Iraq and Afghanistan. It is less than the $10 billion he spends in 
Iraq in one month alone. As the President has waged war overseas, our 
education, job training, and health systems have been left to cope with 
unfunded mandates and empty promises. That--not this bill--is what is 
''irresponsible and excessive.'' This bill simply restores some of the 
money the President cut and takes a modest step forward after years of 
going in the wrong direction.

Among other things, this bill boosts American competitiveness by 
investing $4.8 billion in job training and career- and technical-
education when the President would have cut these programs by more than 
$1 billion. It adds $1 billion to expand critical research at the 
National Institutes of Health, reversing years of stagnant budgets. And 
it strengthens education and health care by providing money for Head 
Start, school improvement, and community health centers.

This bill recognizes how important access to quality health care is 
for working families. While the President's budget neglected the 
uninsured and those with limited access to health care, the Senate bill 
invests an additional $250 million over the President's request in the 
community health center program. This will help those families get 
medical care without having to seek it in the emergency room. We have 
all heard stories about how overburdened emergency rooms are by 
patients who seek care there because they don't have health insurance 
or are underinsured. But access to a doctor can prevent a child's 
earache from turning into a serious infection, and it can make sure a 
father gets screening and preventive care so that he doesn't develop a 
serious and expensive form of cancer.

This bill also makes investments in another critical health care 
concern--making sure we have enough doctors and nurses and other health 
care professionals. Last week, I heard about it again in roundtables I 
held across the State.

This bill provides $357 million for the Health Professions and 
Nursing Programs to recruit and hire new health care professionals--
that is $242 million over the President's proposal. Of this, $169 
million is for nursing education. That is $20 million over last year's 
level. Our nurses are the front line of care in hospitals and nursing 
homes. This will help address the serious nursing shortage we already 
face.


It is also important that we provide opportunities and encouragement 
for students who want to go into nursing so that we can replace these 
retiring caregivers and meet the increasing demand for nursing care. I 
applaud the committee for recognizing this looming concern, and I 
repeat that the time to invest in our health care system is now--before 
these problems become an urgent issue. We can't afford to wait.

This bill also supports our scientists and our biotech industry by 
funding landmark research. The President's budget would have eliminated 
hundreds of research grants from the National Institutes of Health--
money that could lead to cures or treatments for cancer, MS, and 
diabetes, among other diseases. This is on top of years of inadequate 
funding for NIH. The Senate bill adds $1 billion for NIH funding 
nationally.

This allows scientists at prestigious universities--including the 
University of Washington--to continue their innovative medical and 
biotech research. It also will provide hope for people with serious 
diseases--hope that they won't


have if this research is cut off because of lack of funding.

We have heard the President say that education is one of his top 
priorities. That is why it is so frustrating to me that he is 
threatening to veto this bill. I am committed to ensuring Federal funds 
are there to help build and improve our Nation's schools. Strong 
schools make strong communities. We want everyone in this country to 
have a promising future and a promising job--and education is how you 
get there.

The Senate bill supports increased funding for Pell grants that help 
kids afford college when they might not otherwise have had a chance to 
get a college degree. It increases funding for school improvement by 
$500 million. It sends $1 billion in badly needed money to help schools 
in low-income communities raise children's achievement levels and 
provide more opportunities for learning. And it reverses the 
President's proposed $100 million cut to Head Start.

As a mom, a former preschool teacher, and school board president, I 
saw firsthand that giving kids a boost early on can pay off in the 
future. Reaching kids early makes them more likely to graduate and 
succeed. This isn't frivolous spending. The money we spend on education 
today will help children grow into better educated, better prepared 
workers.

Providing Americans with the skills they need to excel in the global 
economy while keeping them safe on the job are very basic needs that 
every working family has the right to expect from their Government. 
That is why I continue to be baffled by the administration's lack of 
commitment to workers in our Nation. With strong bipartisan support for 
this bill, the Senate is proud to stand with working families and 
support the priorities that shape their daily lives.

When I travel around my home State of Washington, employers tell me 
they are desperate to find workers with the skills they need to grow 
their businesses. And we have thousands of people on waiting lists 
hoping to get trained for these family-wage jobs. Yet for the last 7 
years, the President has proposed hundreds of millions of dollars in 
cuts for job-training programs, shutting the door to millions of 
dislocated workers, youth and disadvantaged adults who deserve to share 
in the American dream.


Under his watch, worker safety on the job has also been put at risk. 
With OSHA's lack of enforcement, workers are unprotected. And today's 
miners continue to work under an administration that values voluntary 
compliance above safety and enforcement. This is the wrong direction 
for working families and the wrong priority for America.

How do we begin to solve it? Well, one thing is clear--it isn't by 
cutting $1 billion dollars in job training funds at a critical time in 
our economic growth, as the President has proposed, nor is it by 
proposing hundreds of millions of dollars in cuts to job training 
programs, as he has one over the last 7 years. This bill rejects the 
President's misguided cuts and goes to great lengths to maintain a 
viable workforce and training system. If we want our local businesses 
and our Nation to be competitive in the global economy, we must make 
skills training for every worker a national priority. This bill does 
that.

For some here in the Senate, this might be an abstract debate about 
Federal funding. But this debate is about real people. It is about 30 
kids in a classroom and a teacher struggling to make sure they succeed. 
It is about hardworking parents searching for a way to get health care 
for their families when it isn't provided by their employers. And it is 
about workers who need training that will help them get a job that pays 
enough to support a family.

When I travel around Washington State, people tell me they want hope 
and change. Whether it is the war in Iraq or gas prices or access to 
health insurance--people feel a real weight on their shoulders. They 
are looking for a light at the end of the tunnel, and by vetoing these 
important bills--and failing to invest in the health, safety, and 
economic future of all Americans--the President keeps putting out that 
light.

Mr. President, in this bill, we are investing more than $7 billion 
over last year in the future of our country. I urge all my colleagues 
to support this legislation on behalf of the millions of American 
children and families who would benefit.

And I hope the President is listening.