---
---

# HIGHER EDUCATION AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `d668d90fd779039e12719bc7845517e9`
`Mr. BYRD — 24 July 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, this afternoon, the Senate will proceed to 
the Homeland Security bill. I speak in advance of that happening.

In every State of the Union Address since the terrorist attacks on 9/
11, the President has raised the specter of another attack. This past 
January, the President said--hear me, the President said:




 Every success against the terrorists is a reminder of the 


 shoreless ambitions of this enemy . . . I wish I could report 


 to you that the dangers had ended. They have not. It remains 


 the policy of this government to use every lawful and proper 


 tool of intelligence, diplomacy, law enforcement and military 


 action to do our duty . . . to protect the American people.


Let me say that again. The President said:




 Every success against the terrorists is a reminder of the 


 shoreless ambitions of this enemy . . . I wish I could report 


 to you that the dangers had ended. They have not. It remains 


 the policy of this government to use every lawful and proper 


 tool of intelligence, diplomacy, law enforcement and military 


 action to do our duty--


To do our duty--



 to protect the American people.


And yet despite the President's warnings and the President's 
promises, the President's budget failed to commit significant resources 
to address these dangers. Too often the Department of Homeland Security 
settles for security that looks good on paper but leaves serious gaps 
in the defense of our homeland. There is too much rhetoric on homeland 
security and too little action; too much wind--too much wind--and not 
enough wisdom.

Despite the August 2006 arrests in Britain of terrorists determined 
to blow passenger aircraft out of the sky over the Atlantic, we still 
don't have proven technology to detect liquid explosives.

I wish to say that again. Hear me now; hear me. Despite the August 
2006 arrests in Britain of terrorists determined to blow passenger 
aircraft out of the sky over the Atlantic, we still don't have proven 
technology to detect liquid explosives.

On an average day, 7,500 tons of cargo is placed in the holds of 
passenger aircraft at our Nation's airports, little of which is 
screened for explosives and virtually none is screened for radiation. 
Our seaports remain vulnerable. Our police, firefighters, emergency 
medical teams, and emergency managers remain understaffed and 
underprepared to handle the challenges of the times.

The White House--hear me down there--the White House talks a good


game, but talk is cheap, cheap, cheap. But security is not cheap. The 
White House asserted that its budget proposes an 8-percent increase for 
the Department of Homeland Security. However, after sifting through the 
gimmicks, we found that it is a 1.7-percent increase above current 
funding. That is barely enough to cover inflation for existing 
programs. More paper security; more paper security. More failed 
promises; more failed promises. We have a responsibility. We have a 
responsibility; yes, we have a responsibility to the people of this 
country to do better, and this legislation meets that responsibility.

For border security, the bill provides the funds to hire 3,000 new 
Border Patrol agents. The bill also includes $1 billion for border 
fencing, infrastructure, and technology. Our bill adds funds for 4,000 
new detention beds, 3,050 more detention beds than are requested by the 
President. Get that? We commit the funds that are essential for a 
coordinated, comprehensive border security effort.

Real security cannot be done on the cheap. Hear me. Real security 
cannot be done on the cheap.

For aviation security, the bill invests funds that will help save 
lives, and it may be your life, it may be your life, it may be your 
life, maybe someone's life whom you know, it may be some child's life, 
but it cannot be done on the cheap.

Despite a documented need for $3.6 billion to purchase and install 
explosives detection systems, the President--get this--the President, 
the President of the United States, proposes to cut, the explosives 
detection program by 17 percent. The bill provides $89.4 million above 
the President's request to purchase and install explosives detection 
equipment at airports. That is for you, the people of this country, to 
install this equipment at airports for your security.

We take on the challenge of screening cargo before it is loaded onto 
aircraft, which you, the people of this country--the passengers--will 
board.

The bill includes $66 million, $10 million above the request--$10 
million above the President's request--to deploy 70 additional canine 
teams--God bless them, those good, great dogs--to deploy 70 additional 
canine teams, and more screening technology at airports nationwide, at 
airports where the people of this country will board nationwide.

Funds are also provided to establish 20 radiation screening teams at 
key U.S. international airports to inspect aircraft and cargo. You, the 
people out there, will be boarding these aircraft. Let me say it again. 
Funds are also provided to establish 20 radiation screening teams at 
key U.S. international airports to inspect aircraft, which you will 
board, and cargo, which will be boarded by you, the people. All of this 
money is well spent. It will protect human lives and cargo and 
aircraft.

In this legislation, we also speed up the work on disaster 
preparation. Two years ago--how soon we forget--just 2 years ago, 
Hurricane Katrina demonstrated our dismal failure in dealing with a 
major disaster. Hurricane Rita showed that we do not know how to 
organize an effective mass evacuation. I want to say that again. 
Hurricane Rita showed that we do not know how to organize an effective 
mass evacuation. Now, we better get on it. We better get with it. I am 
going to say it once again: Hurricane Rita showed that we--that is you 
and that is me--do not know how to organize an effective mass 
evacuation. That is hard to believe.

Maybe it isn't so hard.

The White House After Action Report on the hurricanes concluded, and 
I quote from that report. I am quoting from the White House After 
Action Report, not my report.




 We are not as prepared as we need to be at all levels 


 within this country.


We are not as prepared as we need to be at all levels within the 
country. What an understatement. What an understatement. Yet the 
President's budget proposes a $1.2 billion cut--a cut--in vital 
homeland security grant programs, including funds for disaster 
preparations and first responder training. Where, oh where, is the 
sense in that?

According to the Department of Homeland Security's own estimates, 
two-thirds of the States and urban areas do not have adequate plans to 
respond to a catastrophic event. This legislation rejects the proposed 
budget cuts and puts us on the right track--planning and training for a 
catastrophic event.

The bill that is before the Senate increases first responder funding 
by $644 million. The President signed the SAFE Port Act last year with 
great fanfare. Yet 9 months later, his budget--the President's budget--
includes no additional funds for the new security requirements 
contained in the law that the President signed. This bill makes good on 
the promises of the SAFE Port Act, hiring specialists to help inspect 
the 11 million containers that come into the United States every year. 
The bill commits funds directly to our ports to tighten security.

Let me say that again: The bill commits funds directly to our ports 
to tighten security--security for you, the people out there--at the 
ports. Port security grants are increased by $190 million to the fully 
authorized level of $400 million. We double the frequency of 
unannounced Coast Guard inspections at our port facilities.

Get that? You better wake up out there. I am going to say it again: 
We double the frequency of unannounced Coast Guard inspections at our 
port facilities, and we fund the installation of radiation detection 
equipment at our ports to guard against nuclear weapons and dirty 
bombs. I will say that again: We fund the installation of radiation 
detection equipment at our ports to guard against nuclear weapons and 
dirty bombs.

The threat at our ports needs to be addressed now. It is foolish to 
delay any longer. In order to restore the ill-considered cuts proposed 
by the President for equipping and training our first responders, and 
to fund the increases that I have described for border, port, and 
aviation security, the bill exceeds the President's request by $2.25 
billion.

Incredibly, President Bush has threatened to veto the homeland 
security funding bill. Why? Because of what he, the President, labels 
as excessive spending. Excessive spending. That is what President Bush 
said. Let me read that again: President Bush has threatened to veto the 
homeland security funding bill--that is for you, the people out there 
in the hills and valleys of this great land. Why? He has threatened to 
veto the homeland security funding bill because of what he labels as 
excessive spending.

The $2.25 billion increase in this bill is about what we spend in 1 
week--1 week--in Iraq. Let me say that again. Now listen to me. Hear me 
now. Incredibly, President Bush has threatened to veto the homeland 
security funding bill because of what he labels as excessive spending. 
Yet the $2.25 billion increase in this bill is about what we spend in 1 
week in Iraq.

Just 2 weeks ago, the Secretary of Homeland Security was quoted as 
saying that it was his gut feeling that the United States faces an 
increased threat of attack this summer. Now, that is not Robert Byrd 
making that assertion. Let me say it again. Just 2 weeks ago, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security was quoted as saying--did you hear 
that--he was quoted as saying that it was his gut feeling--that is 
pretty deep--that our country faces an increased threat of attack this 
summer. That is now, isn't it? This is July. This summer.

On the heels of the Secretary's warnings, the administration, our 
administration, the Bush administration, has released its latest 
National Intelligence Estimate concerning the terrorist threat to the 
U.S. homeland. Where is that? Here, the U.S. homeland. I will quote 
from the report. This is not Robert Byrd talking, this is the report, 
the National Intelligence Estimate, concerning the terrorist threat to 
the U.S. homeland.




 We judge the U.S. Homeland will face a persistent and 


 evolving terrorist threat over the next three years. The main 


 threat comes from Islamic terrorist groups and cells, 


 especially al-Qaida, driven by their undiminished intent to 


 attack the Homeland--


That is my homeland. That is your homeland.




and a continued effort by these terrorist groups to adapt 


 and improve their capabilities. . . .[W]e judge that al-Qaida 


 will intensify its efforts to put operatives here.


Where? Not out there, here. Here is everywhere in our homeland.




 As a result, we judge that the United States currently is 


 in a heightened threat




 environment. . . .We assess that al-Qaida's Homeland plotting 


 is likely to continue to focus on prominent political, 


 economic and infrastructure targets with the goal of 


 producing mass casualties, visually dramatic destruction, 


 significant economic aftershocks, and/or fear among the U.S. 


 population.


These are the words written by the best intelligence analysts in our 
Government. Those are the words that should force our Government, both 
in the executive and in the legislative branches, to reevaluate the 
priority that we are giving to funding to stop terrorist attacks 
against this country, our country--my country, your country, our 
country.

I call on the President--yes, I call on the President of the United 
States--to reconsider his veto threat in light of the concerns raised 
by his own administration.

The mission of the Department of Homeland Security is critical to the 
safety of our citizens. The potential threats are enormous. The 
Congress must strike a balance that preserves our cherished freedoms 
and provides for enhanced security.

We need to stop squabbling and pass the Homeland Security bill for 
the President's speedy signature. This is no time to jockey for 
political points or to argue over minor differences. The Appropriations 
Committee, by a vote of 29 to 0, has produced a balanced and 
responsible bill which needs action now.

I thank Senator Cochran and his able staff for their support in 
producing this legislation.

I yield the floor.