# None
## `d66fd94539426dd79a0ae070e62393aa`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 15 October 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I thank the 
gentleman from Illinois.

I rise today with pride to honor one of our Nation's finest sons. 
Nathaniel DeTample, Nate to his friends and family, Baby Boy to his 
National Guard unit, died in Iraq on August 9, 2005. He was 19 years 
old.

Nate was an Eagle Scout, an Eagles fan, a standout wrestler at 
Pennsbury High School, and a friend to all who knew him. Today, we pay 
tribute.

Madam Speaker, the legislation before us today will name the post 
office building in Morrisville, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, the Nate 
DeTample Post Office Building.

I am proud that this will be the first Pennsylvania post office named 
after an Iraq war veteran. His name will appear for all to see at 950 
West Trenton Avenue, a sign of the spirit we honor.

Madam Speaker, today we give thanks to Nate and to his family for 
their service to our Nation. Nate joined the Pennsylvania National 
Guard to serve. He planned to be a police officer like his dad, but he 
never got that chance. He was always first in line to wrestling 
practice and always had a positive attitude. Bucks County Police Chief 
Ken Coluzzi said Nate was a nice boy and a fine young man who was going 
to be outstanding. It seems that is who is over there, overseas. There 
are a lot of outstanding young men and women who just want to do the 
right thing for their country, outstanding young heroes who put their 
lives on the line every single day.



Nate served in the Pennsylvania National Guard's Alpha Company, 1st 
Battalion, 111 Infantry, a unit that proudly traces its roots back to 
the founding of our Nation and the Minutemen of the Revolutionary War, 
a rich history that Nate honored with his unforgettable spirit.

Madam Speaker, his friend said in tribute that Nate was one of the 
nicest guys ever. You never saw him down. You didn't have to meet Nate 
to know what kind of man, what kind of soldier he was.

When it came time for him to be laid to rest, scores of people lined 
the streets to say goodbye and to give thanks, a true testament to his 
spirit, his sacrifice, and the impact he had on the lives that he 
touched.

Madam Speaker, Nate's mom and dad, Kim and Glenn, asked at Nate's 
funeral that all of us pray for Nate's fellow soldiers and their 
families. Today, before this great body, with great pride, I repeat 
their request, and ask that we make it our mission to honor the fallen 
and stand up for those who are still fighting.

With his service, Nate DeTample showed us true energy, faith, and 
devotion. His memory will light our world.

In closing, I want to share how Nate signed one of his letters home 
from Iraq: ''Rock Steady, Nate.''

Madam Speaker, I hope my colleagues join me in honoring one of those 
rocks of our community, Nate DeTample. Rock steady.