# None
## `d684fa66ea8ce3bb5b4c6304af94debe`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I would like to first thank the Senator 
from Virginia for his leadership on this amendment, and I am troubled 
by what just occurred on the floor. What the Democratic majority leader 
offered was to allow the Webb amendment, an amendment from the 
Democratic side--which, incidentally, has bipartisan sponsorship with 
Senator Hagel of Nebraska--that it be an up-or-down vote, a majority 
vote, on whether we will give our troops an opportunity to rest before 
they are redeployed back into battle. I think the Senator from Virginia 
has made a compelling argument that it is in the best interest of our 
military--certainly our soldiers and their families--to give them this 
chance for rest and recuperation and retraining before they are 
redeployed.

The fact is, we know many of these soldiers are being deployed and 
redeployed repeatedly at great personal hardship. We have reports that 
come in that trouble us about family difficulties many of these 
soldiers are going through because of these long periods of separation 
and the fact they are overseas so often.

Secondly, we know many of the soldiers who return after the stress of 
battle need to sit down and talk to some people, go through some 
counseling to make sure they are dealing with post-traumatic stress 
disorder and other issues which in previous wars had never been 
mentioned and we know now to be very important.

So the Senator from Virginia is saying: For goodness' sakes, don't we 
owe it to our troops to give them a period of rest before we send them 
back into battle? So he wanted a vote on his amendment, a majority 
vote, up or down.

We said to the other side, the Republican side: Do you have an 
approach you would like to use on this same issue?

They said: Senator Graham of South Carolina has an amendment on the 
same issue; we would like that to be offered.

So the Democratic majority leader said: Fine, we will treat both 
amendments exactly the same way--have a limited debate, 4 hours, split 
up, and then we will vote on them, a majority vote, up or down.

But there was an objection, an objection because the Republican 
leader now says: For the amendments, even those dealing with the 
readiness of our troops, we need an extraordinary majority, we want 60 
votes, even on an amendment about the readiness of soldiers where we 
have offered both sides the same opportunity.

What it tells us is that when it comes to the issue of the war in 
Iraq, I am afraid that the minority--the Republican leader--has made it 
clear that they are going to filibuster every amendment. They are going 
to do their best to slow down and stop this debate on the war in Iraq. 
Instead of coming to the issue in a straightforward and honest way, for 
an up-or-down vote, they prefer to drag this out, drag it out as long 
as they can, try to put off the inevitable. We can't put off the 
inevitable, and the inevitable is this: This is a costly, deadly war. 
As our debate


winds on day after day and week after week, American soldiers are still 
in the line of fire. Some of our best and bravest will be falling in 
battle as we stand and debate. That really is not acceptable.


We owe it to our men and women in uniform to do our duty, and our 
duty is fair deliberation, open debate, and then an up-or-down vote, 
and move to the next issue. But according to the Republican side of the 
aisle, that is not the way it will be. They want to filibuster this 
debate on the war in Iraq--everything they can do to slow it down. That 
is unfortunate, and I will tell you something. If they were paying 
attention to the people back in their home States, the people have lost 
their patience with Congress caught up in this kind of procedural 
slowdown. They want us to act, and act decisively; make a decision one 
way or the other; decide whether an amendment is good or bad, but don't 
drag it out in this kind of parliamentary maneuver over an amendment 
which on its face is easily understood, which I think is eminently 
reasonable, and where the other side, the Republican side, has ample 
opportunity to put their own idea up for a vote at the same time.

It could not be any more fair, and yet the Republican leader objects. 
I hope he will reconsider. Now we are going to move from this 
amendment, the Webb amendment, and the Graham amendment, to substantive 
important amendments on timetables about bringing American soldiers 
home--doing it in a reasonable way but to start redeploying our troops 
out of harm's way. It appears now the strategy on the other side of the 
aisle is, in every respect, to try to slow this down, delay the 
ultimate decision.

I think Senator Reid, the majority leader, has made it clear. We are 
going to stay here until our job is done. We are committed to making 
this national debate on Iraq a meaningful debate, and no use of any 
procedural tool or tactic is going to stop us from the ultimate 
decision this Senate has to make. It should be done in an open, honest, 
courteous, and civilized way. When we made that offer, I am afraid to 
say the Republican leader objected. I hope we can return to the 
substance of this debate.

I would like to say that Senator Webb's amendment is not about the 
politics of the Iraq war, and it is not about whether we should be 
there or not be there. It is not about a Republican or Democratic view 
of the war. It simply is about taking care of our troops. We are going 
to spend a lot of hours in debate over the next several weeks debating 
the war policy, but one thing we should not debate is the welfare and 
safety of our troops.

I believe I can safely say every Senator in this body would agree 
that no matter what else we do, our first duty is to ensure the welfare 
and safety of those who are fighting, sacrificing, and even dying in 
this struggle. This is exactly what the Webb amendment does. Our 
soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines have performed their duties 
gallantly over the past 4-plus years. They have not complained and 
returned time and time again into battle. We owe them and their 
families gratitude that no single Member of the Senate could properly 
express.

But as this war stretches on, it takes its toll. All of us have met 
with Guard units being deployed, other units that are returning. We 
know what they have been through, just vicariously, by talking with 
their families and hearing their stories. Many have returned for 
second, third, and fourth deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan.

Our soldiers spend 12 months of time in theater, and now they are 
going to be spending 15 months, by the latest decision of the Pentagon. 
Is it unreasonable to allow them to spend at least that much time at 
home before they again put themselves in harm's way? I don't think so. 
These short turnaround times affect our men and women in uniform 
professionally and personally. After 15 months in battle we ask them to 
turn around and be ready to leave again in less than a year. That is 
just not enough time. Under normal conditions, the preparations and 
training for deployment can take up to a year. After 15 months in the 
desert, there are going to be significant tasks our soldiers will have 
to accomplish to get themselves and their equipment back in fighting 
condition. After so long away from home base, many individual and unit 
qualifications and training standards have lapsed. It will take time to 
correct it, but how can they possibly accomplish these tasks if as soon 
as they get home they have to begin preparing for the next deployment?

Without a doubt we have the finest military in the world, capable of 
doing great things. But are we really being fair to them? Are we really 
preparing them for battle as we should, by squeezing so much into such 
a short period of time? Are we shortchanging valuable training that 
will help to keep them alive?

This effect is not limited to their professional performance because, 
certainly, with this kind of burden at work over such a short amount of 
time, you can be sure that 12 months at home is really not 12 months at 
home. Our soldiers don't complain and always put mission accomplishment 
above all else. So rather than spending time at home with the spouse 
and children, building the strong families necessary to sustain long 
separations and deployment, they will spend longer and longer hours at 
work training.

All we are asking with the Webb amendment is to remember the 
sacrifices of our soldiers and their families. Soldiers deploy. That is 
what they do. They know when they sign up. A soldier's family is 
strong. They persevere and adapt to ever-changing schedules. But the 
strain these families have been put under in the past few years and 
will have to face in the future is too much. We are seeing divorce 
rates skyrocket, and rates of alcohol abuse have been increasing in the 
military. Pressures of these long deployments and short stays at home 
are taking their toll, as they would in most every circumstance. It is 
not fair to ask them to continue to make this kind of sacrifice.

There are many out there who say our Army is near the breaking point. 
I can't answer whether it is or not. But I certainly can speak for 
families from Illinois and the families with whom I have spoken, and 
they are courageous without a doubt, but they are being pushed to the 
limit. We hear all the time about supporting our troops. What does it 
mean? Many people say the phrase but do not really know what it means. 
This amendment is exactly what it means. Our military personnel and 
their families have borne almost the entire burden of the struggle our 
Nation has undertaken since September 11, 2001. They have done it 
spectacularly.

One of the critiques I have heard that I think is fair is, after 9/11 
our country was ready to move together. I can't recall a period of 
greater national unity. Had the President made an appeal for shared 
sacrifice to fight this war on terrorism, I am certain he would have 
received resounding support from both sides of the aisle all across the 
Nation.


But, sadly, that appeal was not made. He has asked for sacrifice from 
our military and their families, and they have certainly gone above and 
beyond the call of duty. For the rest of us, life is all but normal 
every single day. There is hardly any sacrifice because of this war on 
terror or war in Iraq or Afghanistan. Is it too much to ask in the Webb 
amendment to at least acknowledge the sacrifices already being made by 
our soldiers before we push them back into the danger of battle?

There will be an amendment offered by Senator Graham. I read the 
amendment. I have a great deal of respect for Senator Graham, but in 
all fairness there are two obvious omissions. First, there is no 
reference at all in his amendment to the National Guard. I think that 
is an important consideration, not just Active military and Reserve, 
but the sacrifice being made by our National Guard. Second, taken in 
its entirety, the Graham amendment is just a sense of the Senate. It is 
a little note that is being passed around. It has no impact of law, as 
the Webb amendment would. A sense of the Senate is not enough. We owe 
our fighting men and women so much more.

Our soldiers have not asked us to do this, but Senator Webb, Senator 
Hagel, and those who have been in battle, as Senator McCain has been, 
understand we need to stand up and speak for them even when duty keeps 
them quiet, when they do not come forward to ask for this helping hand.



I encourage my colleagues to support the Webb amendment. I hope the 
Republican leadership will reconsider its position and allow these 
amendments to be voted up or down and get on with this debate after a 
reasonable period so we can complete this important bill on the Senate 
floor.