---
---

# HONORING SEVEN AMERICANS KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN ON DECEMBER 30, 2009
## `d687e99ef4739c15cf7ba82b1471b8f7`
`Ms. PELOSI — 20 January 2010`

---


Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I thank him for giving us the privilege to come to the floor to honor 
the


lives, the leadership, the service and sacrifice of the seven CIA 
officers killed, and those who were wounded in Afghanistan on December 
30, 2009.

For those of us who have worked closely with members of the 
intelligence community, visited them and their stations around the 
world, some undercover, some not, we know the sacrifice that they make. 
Like so many of the dedicated men and women in the intelligence 
community, these officers worked far from home, close to the enemy, and 
on the front lines of the fight for freedom and security around the 
world.

They were mothers and fathers, sisters and brothers, sons and 
daughters, friends and loved ones. They never asked for recognition or 
credit, for medals or awards. They simply sought to fulfill their duty 
to protect our Nation, to secure the blessings of a brighter future for 
our people, to bear any burden, as President Kennedy said, in the name 
of our safety, our shared values, and our common ideals.

Go back a number of years before terrorism became such an important 
part of our intelligence gathering, go back a couple of decades, force 
protection was one of the primary responsibilities of the intelligence 
community. When they were sent into harm's way or in anticipation of 
that, the intelligence community was the advance team and the ongoing 
force protector. And so as we honor on every occasion, and we will 
later today, our men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan, we know that 
there are people taking risks to protect them as we talk about honoring 
them. These are the members of the intelligence community in their 
various manifestations.

The stories of these intelligence officers, theirs were stories of 
sacrifice, tales of bravery in the face of danger, and valor in the 
face of great peril. In carrying out their mission, they gave hope to 
children, families, and complete strangers. We are the land of the free 
and the home of the brave because of them. In performing acts of 
extraordinary courage, they advanced the cause of peace. In answering 
the calls of service, they became heroes.

These officers knew we live in a time of peril at home and around the 
world. As the attack on them in Afghanistan, the failed plot on 
Christmas Day, and the shootings at Fort Hood remind us, intelligence 
must remain the first line of defense against terrorism and other 
threats to global security and peace.

We must continue to support those still in the field, the men and 
women who, taking inspiration from their fallen colleagues, keep 
pursuing their mission on every front. In the words of this resolution, 
the entire Nation owes an enormous debt of gratitude to these proud 
Americans, their families, and their loved ones for the quiet, 
dedicated, and vital services offered to the United States. May their 
proud and selfless acts be a source of strength and inspiration to all 
Americans. May those so painfully touched by this event find comfort in 
knowing the thoughts and prayers of our entire Nation are with them at 
this very sad and difficult time.