# MISSISQUOI AND TROUT RIVERS WILD AND SCENIC RIVER STUDY ACT OF 2008
## `d68a8f9e2ab7fe854f870aaca5fac6f7`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont â€” 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I very much appreciate 
the excellent work you did and your eloquent description of a beautiful 
river. If I have any say about it, we're going to make you an honorary 
Vermonter and bring you down that river and make you paddle your way 
from one end to the other and have you see for yourself how beautiful 
what you described really is. Thank you.

I want to respond to some of the comments.

Mr. Chairman, my opinion is that one of the greatest Presidents of 
the United States was Theodore Roosevelt. He came to the Presidency 
when his predecessor was assassinated. It was a time of great turmoil, 
social and labor unrest, a need for corporate reform, trust busting. 
President Roosevelt had his hands full taking on those economic 
challenges.

He was a war President. The skirmish in Cuba and the Philippines were 
still very much alive, and he had to deal with that as President. Very 
serious issues with the Supreme Court. And in the midst of all of that 
he still found time to be a peacemaker and was the winner of the Nobel 
Prize for the work that he did in bringing together the Soviet and 
Japanese conflict and helping those folks resolve the end of that war.

But Theodore Roosevelt was also a person who respected and did more, 
perhaps, than anyone else to protect our environment. And amidst his 
responsibilities, where he had to simultaneously deal with enormous 
economic anxiety in this country, when he had to deal with foreign 
affairs that involved making America a strong country and bringing 
together peace in other countries, he would never, ever, busy as he 
was, urgent as his demands were, belittle the work of the House of 
Representatives when they were taking up what is now being 
characterized as a ''waste-of-time bill'' because it involves two 
rivers in the State of Vermont. He wouldn't do it. He's a bigger man 
than that.

He reflects the leadership that we can provide to the American people 
where we simultaneously take on the challenges, as President Roosevelt 
did, but also pay attention to the posterity that is our responsibility 
to leave behind.

I just want to say as a Vermonter, I want to say as a Member of the 
House of Representatives that if we can't find time to do those things 
that are going to allow us in Utah, in Arkansas, in Arizona and in 
Vermont to save our rivers and to do what is going to preserve our 
country and leave behind legacies like President Teddy Roosevelt did 
with the National Park Service that we revere and enjoy, then we don't 
deserve the vote of confidence that we get from the folks who send us 
here. We can do both.

Now my friend from Utah has essentially made an argument that there 
is more important business to be done, as if that suggests we don't 
have time to do other important business about protecting and 
preserving our environment and having mutual respect for the particular 
concerns, in this case, of Vermont.



But it's that same comity that has allowed us to come forward and 
step up as Vermonters and Arizonans to help the folks in the Midwest 
from their flood and to respond to the gulf coast with the damage that 
they sustained. It's political. That's what we know.

The reality is our friends on the other side had 12 years in control 
here and their energy policy was one thing: give tax breaks to oil 
companies. You can't make that up. Oil companies are doing well. I 
don't begrudge them their profits. But why do you reach into the 
taxpayers' pocket and ask taxpayers to give the most profitable 
corporations in the world, running a mature industry, doing well, why 
do we ask the taxpayers to give them $13 billion? When you reveal that 
fact, they don't even know how to respond because you can't make that 
kind of stuff up.

So this House of Representatives, under the leadership that now is 
being castigated for a failure of leadership, has repeatedly passed 
legislation against the objections, almost unanimous, of our friends on 
the other side, to stop filling up the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, to 
squeeze out the speculative premium in the price of a gallon of gas at 
the pump. That can provide some short-term relief. We did that. We 
passed comprehensive energy reform, again, against the objections of 
our friends on the other side. We took away the tax breaks from the oil 
companies, not because oil companies are a target. They're doing 
important work. They know how to do their work and they know how to do 
it well. But why in the world would our friends on the other side want 
to give $13 billion in tax breaks to a mature and profitable industry 
when that money comes directly out of the pockets of American consumers 
who need that money in their pocket to pay the price at the pump? 
They've resisted that. They opposed it.

Our friends on the other side are also aware that even though we have 
passed legislation against their objection, it has gotten stalled in 
the other body, threatened with veto by the President, we're ready to 
do it again. Our motto is


try again, try again, and keep going because, bottom line, we want to 
address that problem. And we have actually been doing things in our 2 
years on the watch despite their resistance when they had 12 years to 
get the job done and essentially caved into the interests of the oil 
companies.

So, Mr. Chairman, as a Vermonter and the sponsor of this bill, I want 
to object to what is really a rhetorical and political device, and that 
is ridiculing the importance of these two rivers to the people of my 
State for a partisan political argument. Energy is incredibly important 
and we have delivered. We've put substantive proposals on the floor. 
They have been debated and they have been passed. They've been stalled 
in the Senate or threatened with veto by the President. We're prepared 
to do it again. We're also prepared to reach out to the other side 
because we all know that in the end if we are going to be successful, 
we do have to work together, particularly where we have divided 
government. But it takes two sides, two bodies, and a President to be 
willing to do that, and it has not been forthcoming.

So I want to go back to a very simple fact. This legislation is about 
allowing Vermonters to have a study for scenic status on two rivers 
that are very precious to us, places where moms and dads have taken 
they are kids, taught them how to hunt, taught them how to fish, taught 
them how to be families, taught them responsibility. And there is a 
place for us and a time for us to do that as well as face these large 
issues like energy, like the war in Iraq, like redefining our foreign 
policy. So this is a very important piece of legislation to us, and I, 
as one Member of Congress, object to having it be held hostage to what 
is essentially a political game that's been going on far too long.

And I want to thank the chairman for the tremendous work that he's 
done. And, Vermonters, thank you as well.