---
---

# UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
## `d69676f7da1f1657dcfbcb46b757925f`
`Mr. BROWN of Ohio — 20 July 2010`

---


Mr. BROWN of Ohio. Madam President, I join with Senator Mikulski from 
Maryland and her comments about extending unemployment benefits.

We all know these numbers. In my State, 47,000 Ohioans lost their 
unemployment benefits. At the end of June, that number increased 
dramatically to more than 90,000. If we don't pass the extension today, 
or this week, at the end of July more than 80,000 additional Ohioans 
will lose their benefits. These numbers are incredible. I think it is 
important to put a human face on these numbers, in large part because 
41 Members of the Senate, overwhelmingly Republicans and one Democrat, 
have consistently voted to filibuster, to block extending unemployment 
insurance.

I guess the reason for that is they think of these as numbers. They 
don't think of these as people because I cannot imagine, when they call 
their names out in the well and they respond and say no over and over 
and over, as has happened over the last 7 weeks--it is just an amazing 
thing to me. I think my colleagues who vote no, the 39 or 40 
Republicans who vote no, must see this unemployment insurance as 
welfare. I know some of them think that. But it is insurance. We don't 
call it unemployment welfare, we call it unemployment insurance.

That means they pay in when they are working, and they get help when 
they are not. That is done to help individual people, of course. It 
matters to the community because the dollars they get in their pockets, 
the $300, $320, roughly, that people get a week on average in 
unemployment insurance are spending it at the local drugstore. They are 
spending it at a local grocery store. They are buying clothes for their 
kids. They are paying rent, paying utilities. They serve as an economic 
stimulus. It is not just helping those individuals, it is an economic 
stimulus, as Senator McCain's top aide and his top economic adviser in 
his Presidential campaign said. This is the best kind of stimulus for 
the economy. Put a dollar in somebody's pocket for unemployment 
insurance and they spend it, and it is spent over and over in the 
community.

President Obama said yesterday that there has been a tradition under 
both Democratic and Republican Presidents to offer emergency relief to 
the unemployed. When the economy is bad, that is when we need to do 
this. For the Republicans to say we need to cut other programs to pay 
for this--they never said that when we were spending hundreds of 
billions of dollars on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. They didn't 
say pay for that; they said charge that to our grandchildren.

They didn't say pay for it when it was a bailout to the drug and 
insurance companies in the name of Medicare privatization; they said 
just bill that to our grandchildren.

When it was tax cuts for the rich--and some of our Republican Senate 
colleagues said it again this last week--we don't pay for tax cuts for 
the rich; we just add it to our children's and our grandchildren's 
credit cards and their tax burden in the future. But when it comes to 
workers, they look at it differently. Tax cuts for the rich, a bailout 
for the drug and insurance companies, spending it on the war in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, it is OK. But it is not OK to spend it on unemployed 
workers.

So I just am not sure my colleagues ever put a human face on this. 
They just see these as numbers. I don't know how many of my colleagues 
sit down and listen to unemployed workers who have lost their jobs--a 
worker who lost her job, then she lost her health insurance and had to 
explain to her children that: We are going to have to move because we 
are going to have our house foreclosed on; we cannot afford the 
mortgage. They are going to switch school districts, with all of the 
uncertainties. Can you imagine that--sitting down with your children 
and doing that? It is happening all too often that people are 
explaining to their children that they are going to have to move, they 
are not going to have their own room anymore and they will not go to 
the same school, and they will not be able to buy the tennis shoes they 
thought they would get. All those kinds of discussions are happening 
all over America, in part because people are losing their unemployment 
insurance.

I will share four brief letters with my colleagues. This is trying to 
help people understand that real people are losing their unemployment 
benefits. It is a real hardship.

First is Jillian from Holmes County in Millersburg, OH, one of the 
smallest, least populous counties. She wrote:




 My husband is one of the 83,000 Ohioans who lost 


 unemployment benefits in June. He was working in the same job 


 for 14 years until he was recently laid off. Our family has 


 struggled to keep the bills paid. Our mortgage has been 


 consistently one month behind. And each month, more late fees 


 are tacked on. Now that his unemployment benefits have 


 expired, our utility bills are now one month behind. Please 


 help to get this extension passed.


This is exactly what I hear from constituent after constituent in 
Ohio. They work hard. Many have worked the same jobs for years, and 
many have been in the same line of work for 10 to 20 years. These are 
not lazy people who don't want to work. They lost their jobs through no 
doing of their own. They have nowhere to turn, and their unemployment 
benefits have run out.

I ask my colleagues--today we have another chance to vote to join us 
in helping Jillian and others.

Larry is from Shelby County, another rural county close to the 
Indiana border, a town called Sidney, the county seat. He wrote:




 The lack of movement on extending unemployment benefits is 


 causing major system devastation to workers unable to find 


 employment. Loss of these benefits has become devastating to 


 me and my family. The extreme added emotional and financial 


 stress has exacerbated an otherwise manageable physical 


 condition into a borderline disability. I do not want to lose 


 my capacity to search for and secure employment due to 


 physical stress brought on by economic hardship. Please fight 


 to extend these critical benefits.


So often, what my Republican colleagues seem to think is that people 
don't have to go out and look for work, but they are out looking for 
work. These people are not staying home not trying to find a job. To 
receive unemployment benefits, you have to demonstrate to the local 
employment office that you are looking for a job.

With all of the economic hardships and the troubles and potential 
loss of car, house, job, and potentially insurance, there is also an 
emotional toll taken on people. Larry illustrates that.

Richard is from Summit County, the Akron area. He wrote:




 I am a 67-year-old American who has worked for more than 50 


 years of my life. I got laid off last year and had been 


 receiving unemployment benefits since then. I was thankful 


 for it because it helped me make my house payments. But when 


 I got cut off last month, I went into panic mode. My blood 


 pressure shot up and I ended up in the ER. I have never felt 


 so scared and uncertain of the future as I am now. I didn't 


 plan to stop working. It just happened. I am headed to the 


 welfare office today.



 I just hate what this country has become where Senators 


 can't relate to us common folk. Is there any hope for us?


The answer is yes. With the appointment of a new Senator from West 
Virginia, we will likely have the 60th vote. We have 39 Republicans and 
1 Democrat who have voted consistently to allow us to filibuster. A 
majority of us, 59, have voted--the Presiding Officer and I and 57 
others have consistently


voted to extend unemployment benefits. Yet, because of a minority of 
41, they have been able to stop the debate and this bill from moving 
forward. Look at the stress it has caused Richard and the anguish it 
has caused Larry from Shelby County. Look at what Jillian and her 
husband are facing.

Here is the last letter. This is from Joan from Montgomery County, 
which is Dayton:




 I am an unemployment accountant with a college degree. I 


 was laid off last year when my small law firm merged with a 


 larger one. There was no position for me in the new firm. I 


 decided to go back to school, using up much of my retirement 


 and my husband's savings. I reduced my hours at school and 


 went part-time. I was able to collect unemployment benefits, 


 but since it has run out, my savings are dwindling rapidly.


Given the high level of unemployment in Ohio, extending federal 
unemployment benefits is imperative. We can't afford further delay. Two 
weeks is a long time for someone whose only means of support is 
unemployment benefits. I hope the Senate passes an extension in the 
next few days.

As I said to her, we hope we will do that today, and the President 
will sign it quickly and the benefits will go out. I hope more than a 
couple of Republicans will join us so we can pass this with a 
significant vote. Some of these are people who have gone back to 
college, and they work hard. They are people who have been in the 
workplace for 10, 20, 30 years. They have a good work ethic.

Again, Joan is from Montgomery County--a county that has been hit 
especially hard, as DHL shut down there and the GM plant shut down, and 
National Cash Register up and moved to Atlanta. There have been some 
good things happening but not enough. That is why we need to extend 
these benefits today, get this done so we can focus on job creation and 
help people get back to work.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.