---
---

# None
## `d69bc85d50dc3948a05086e06d024f97`
`Mrs. BOXER — 8 March 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Yes. I am glad the leader explained that. The fact is, 
with the approval of the other side, we could have taken up the Iraq 
issue on Monday, and we could all have been heard all of Monday, 
Tuesday, and then voted for the resolution that represented our ideas, 
our thoughts, on how to proceed in Iraq.

The fact is, that proposal was objected to by the Republicans. What 
was that proposal? It was everything they wanted last week. They wanted 
a vote on the Gregg amendment. We said fine, you can do it. They wanted 
a vote on the Warner amendment. Senator Reid said you got it. They 
wanted a vote in favor of the surge with the McCain amendment. Senator 
Reid had that in his proposal. We Democrats are asking for a vote on 
our proposal, which I will talk about in a minute, and another proposal 
that would be similar to Senator Gregg's.

Republicans would have gotten three of their amendments and 
proposals, and we would have gotten, on our side, two. But the 
Republicans cannot say yes. What this means is Senator Reid is right. 
We are not going to debate Iraq next week--at least not Monday. We will 
debate it in the context of the supplemental or, if we can reach 
agreement, in the context of a unanimous consent resolution.


I am very proud to be a cosponsor of the Reid joint resolution. I 
want to talk about what it does. It says we support the troops. It says 
the circumstances cited in the 2002 use of force authorization have 
changed substantially. We all know that. It is not the same. We went in 
to find weapons of mass destruction. Then they changed the mission to 
capture Saddam Hussein. Then they changed the mission to make it safe 
for an election. Iraq has had three. Then they changed the mission to 
train the Iraqi troops, and they have now 300,000.

But I have to say that to see our troops in the middle of a civil war 
is not what we should be supporting. The Iraq Study Group said that, 
and this resolution says U.S. troops should not be policing a civil 
war. The American people agree with that. Further, we say U.S. policy 
in Iraq must change to emphasize the need for a political solution.

We all know there will never, ever be a solution, no matter how many 
troops are sent to Iraq, and whether they stay there a week, a month, a 
year, or 10 years, there will never be a solution


until that solution is a political one, where the countries in the 
region come forward, where the various parties in Iraq who are warring 
come to the table and hammer out an agreement.

Now, we know what happened when the President chose to go into Iraq. 
He turned his back. He turned his back on the war I voted for, the war 
against Osama bin Laden. He turned his back on the people of 
Afghanistan. Yes, we are there. But if we had done with half of the 
number of troops we had in Iraq now, and if we had used those in 
Afghanistan, and if we had spent maybe a third of the funding we spent 
in Iraq in Afghanistan, we would have a different scene in Afghanistan. 
We would be in a better place in Afghanistan.

So, clearly, what happened with the Iraq war was it took our focus 
off the war on terror. We call for the President to properly transition 
the mission of U.S. forces and begin a phased redeployment no later 
than 120 days following enactment. So we will start bringing the troops 
home. We Democrats want to start bringing the troops home and, if they 
don't come home, redeploy them out of Iraq to other places. It is our 
goal to redeploy all combat forces from Iraq by March 31, 2008.

I have to say, what I have heard from my colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle, whenever we talk about a timeline, is it is terrible to 
set a timeline. I rhetorically ask, why? Don't we need to send a 
message to the Iraqis that we will not hold their hands forever, that 
they have to take care of their own country, that we cannot keep 
sending the treasure of our country in the form of our troops forever? 
We have lost too many. Too many are wounded. I met with paralyzed 
veterans today. I can tell you that from the look on their faces, they 
are desperate for help they are not getting. Why? Because we have so 
many wounded, this administration wasn't ready for the numbers. They 
never say that. They weren't ready. They weren't ready to support our 
troops.

Now, we need a comprehensive strategy to ensure stability in Iraq. As 
I said, we need a mission our troops can accomplish. In our resolution, 
we call for three limited purposes: force protection, training and 
equipping Iraqi troops, and targeted counterterror operations. So we 
say, for the troops remaining, they will not be in the middle of a 
civil war, but they will protect our forces who are there, they will 
train and equip Iraqis and continue counterterror operations.

We want to change course. We want to transition the mission and we 
want to bring civility to Iraq. Now, that is Senator Reid's proposal. I 
think the vast majority of Democrats are supporting it.

More than 3,175 U.S. military men and women have been killed in the 
war in Iraq. More than 23,900 have been wounded. So it is not hard to 
understand why a majority of the American people now believe the war in 
Iraq was not worth fighting. The American people understand our 
military and their families are paying a very severe price for this 
never-ending war. They understand this administration's foreign policy 
decisions have not only made us less safe, but they have empowered 
dangerous leaders such as the one in Iran. It is time for us to begin 
the redeployment of our forces from Iraq, just as the Reid resolution 
recommends, so we can return our focus to the war on terror and fight 
that war from a position of strength. We cannot defeat al-Qaida while 
we are bogged down in the middle of a civil war.

I do hope we can pass Senator Dorgan's resolution making a very 
strong point that Osama bin Laden attacked our country, and we want him 
captured.

Our troops have performed brilliantly. They have done everything 
asked of them. They deserve the love and support of a grateful Nation. 
When you love the troops, you give them a mission they can accomplish. 
You don't give them mission impossible. You don't give them a mission 
that puts them in the middle of a civil war, and that is why the 
Democratic proposal is so important.

As former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright recently told the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, on which I serve:




 We have put our forces in the absurd position of trying to 


 prevent violence by all sides against all sides. The Sunnis 


 want us to protect them from the Shiites. The Shiites want us 


 on the sidelines so that they can consolidate their power. 


 Both are divided among themselves. . . .


This is what she said to our committee. I was there when she said it:




 If I was a soldier on patrol in Baghdad, I wouldn't know 


 whom to shoot at until I was shot at, which is untenable.


An unclassified summary of the National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq 
states:




 The intelligence community judges that the word ''civil 


 war'' accurately describes key elements of the Iraqi 


 conflict, including the hardening of ethno-sectarian 


 identities, a sea change in the character of the violence, 


 ethno-sectarian mobilization, and population displacements.


That is our intelligence community. There is no military solution to 
the situation in Iraq. The only sustainable solution is a political and 
diplomatic one, as I said previously.

Some warn us we must not redeploy our troops from Iraq and take them 
out of the middle of the civil war or else there will be a larger civil 
war. But I say we should heed the advice of Ed Luttwak, a senior fellow 
at the Center for Strategy and International Studies, who said:




 By interfering with the civil war [in Iraq], we are 


 prolonging it. . . .


Let me repeat that:




 By interfering with the civil war [in Iraq], we are 


 prolonging it . . . we are intruding in matters we cannot 


 manage successfully. And therefore, I believe, that 


 disengagement is the right way to go.


I wish to talk about something that gets Senators in trouble, and 
that is using the words ''love the troops.''

There is a lot of rhetoric about what it means to love the troops. I 
say when you love the troops, you give them gear and equipment they 
need, and you don't tell them to settle for less. We remember Secretary 
Rumsfeld who said, when asked by the troops about body armor:




 As you know, you have to go to war with the Army you have, 


 not the Army you want.


We will never forget that stinging rebuke to a soldier who was deeply 
fearful about the lack of armor, the lack of equipment. That arrogant 
statement shows why our service members were left scrounging for scrap 
metal for their vehicles and asking their families back home to send 
bandages and body armor.

What was interesting about the last election is people said nothing 
will change, nothing will change if the Democrats win this election. 
The first thing that happened was Rumsfeld was gone in 5 minutes--in 5 
minutes. So elections have consequences, and I believe now we have a 
Secretary of Defense who seems to me to be trying to grapple with the 
problems he is facing. He isn't arrogant, and he doesn't tell the 
troops to go get lost if they ask a tough question.

The President is now increasing the number of troops in Iraq. Today I 
learned that in addition to the surge, he is adding another 2,000 
troops. But we still know not all of them will have the best equipment. 
This is unacceptable, and loving our troops has to be more than a 
slogan. When you love your troops, you send them into battle adequately 
equipped.

When you love the troops, you don't lower the standards for their 
future colleagues in arms. In order to meet recruiting goals, the Army 
has significantly lowered eligibility standards. The number of waivers 
granted to Army recruits with criminal backgrounds has grown about 65 
percent in the last 3 years. Approximately 11 percent, or 894, of the 
8,120 waivers granted in 2006 were for people with felony convictions. 
When you love the troops, do you want to put them next to someone who 
has been convicted of a felony?

Our military men and women must trust their fellow soldiers with 
their lives. We must ensure that our military meets the highest 
standards.

I compliment Congressman Murtha, who is known in this country as a 
war hero, who has been there, who has done that, who has seen things 
none of us would ever want to see. He says we can't keep sending our 
troops back into the field, into combat, without adequate preparation, 
training, and the highest standards--and rest.

I say that when you love the troops, you don't send them to moldy 
hospital rooms to recuperate. You don't do it. Recent press reports 
have revealed that


soldiers are languishing in substandard facilities at Walter Reed Army 
Medical Center. I thank my colleagues in the Congress for investigating 
this matter because some of us believe it is the tip of the iceberg.

I have asked my State staff to go on a tour of California hospitals 
and report back to me as to conditions in those hospitals.

An investigation by the Washington Post found vermin, leaking pipes, 
and mold at Walter Reed Building 18, an old hotel used by 
outpatients receiving care at the main Walter Reed Hospital facility.


The Post also highlighted larger and even more disturbing problems 
related to personnel management and recordkeeping. Soldiers complained 
of lost paperwork, of difficulty locating their appointments and of 
months--even as long as 2 years--spent trying to navigate a 
bureaucratic nightmare. According to the Post, some soldiers have 
simply given up trying to receive care and have gone home.

I wish to point out to the Senate--because we all know there are deep 
differences about this war--I want people to know that although Senator 
Lieberman and I do not see eye to eye on this war--and he will say that 
and I will say that; we see it from a different point of view--we have 
teamed up to try and make sure our soldiers on the battlefield get the 
mental health help they must have.

We are disturbed about some of the rules, about what we have found in 
our investigation with our staffs. And that is, many times doctors are 
overruled by the officers and a doctor will say: Do not send this 
individual out because they have post-traumatic stress and sometimes, 
unfortunately, we have learned the doctor doesn't hold sway, and the 
soldier is sent out with a pocketful of antidepressants, just as you 
would give someone aspirin for a headache.

This isn't good enough for our soldiers. Senator Lieberman and I are 
now working with Senator Murray, Senator Inouye, Senator Levin, and 
Senator Akaka to try and make sure our soldiers get the care they need, 
whether it is physical injury or mental injury.

I went to a hospital in San Francisco. I saw x-rays of brains that 
were damaged by explosions, and then I saw x-rays of brains of people 
who had post-traumatic stress. The doctors told me that in both cases, 
you see the damage. You can't tell one from the other.

So when you love the troops, you don't send them back into combat 
with post-traumatic stress and a bottle of antidepressants. You don't 
do it. Tragically, we know this is happening.

As part of the 2007 Defense authorization bill, my legislation passed 
requiring the DOD to issue guidelines as to the deployability of 
servicemembers with post-traumatic stress, but the DOD has not issued 
the guidelines and servicemembers with PTSD, post-traumatic stress 
disorder, continue to be deployed.

When you love the troops, you don't reduce the number of permanent 
disability decisions to save money, when so many of these troops are, 
in fact, permanently disabled. Recent press reports in my hometown 
paper, the Desert Sun in California, have suggested that the Army is 
trying to save money by giving our troops less of a disability rating 
than they deserve, despite an enormous spike in the number of 
battlefield injuries resulting from service in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Now, after nearly 4 years in Iraq, which was supposed to be a walk in 
the park, a mission easily accomplished, an enemy in the last throes, 
it is time to tell this President the time is up for his ever-changing 
mission.

Our troops, whom we all love, deserve more than broken promises, 
broken bodies, and broken dreams. It is time that Congress, following 
the will of the voters, start redeploying the troops out of Iraq now, 
as Britain has done, as Japan has done, as Italy has done, as Hungary 
has done, as Spain has done, as Portugal has done, as Norway has done.

It is time to say to the President that the authorization you 
received from this Congress has to come to an end, just like your 
coalition of the willing is coming to an end. The American people want 
this over.

The Democratic resolution that Senator Reid tried to get before our 
body is reasonable. It is not a cut-and-run resolution. It is a 
resolution that says: Start redeploying the troops out of there, change 
the mission, as the Iraq Study Group suggested, take our troops out of 
the middle of a civil war, give them missions they can accomplish--
force protection, training and equipping Iraqi troops, targeted 
counterterrorism operations so we can continue that war against al-
Qaida for which I voted.

I didn't vote for this one. This one is a diversion from the war on 
terror, in my humble opinion.

My people in California want their National Guard home protecting 
them in case of emergency. I met with my National Guard. They are short 
of equipment. In a State such as mine where we have earthquakes, fire, 
flood, drought--every kind of problem one can name--we want our 
National Guard home and ready. There are terror targets in my State. We 
do have those symbols of America that the terrorists would love to 
target.

We want our troops back home. We are willing to say if you get them 
out of a civil war, if you want to keep them in the area to do a 
limited number of missions, that make sense, fine. It is time for 
diplomacy. It is time for a political solution. It is time for this 
Senate to take up Harry Reid's offer and allow us to vote on our 
resolution that starts redeploying the troops out of Iraq and bring up 
Senator Warner's resolution and bring up Senator Gregg's resolution and 
bring up Senator McCain's resolution--bring them all to the floor of 
the Senate. But don't block us from having this debate which we were 
ready to start on Monday.

I hope my Republican friends will reconsider. This is not the first 
time they have blocked us from debate on Iraq. We respect their points 
of view. We honor their points of view. We encourage them to support 
the resolutions that they support. But don't block a debate.

In closing, I compliment my friends, the managers of this 9/11 bill. 
This is such an important bill. It is so important. I restrained myself 
from offering amendments on this bill. I had something I wanted to do 
regarding blast-resistant cargo containers, but I didn't want to hold 
up getting this bill done. We can work on some of the fine points 
later.

I hope colleagues on both sides will vote to bring debate to a close 
on this 9/11 bill. Both our colleagues have worked so hard on it, and 
the 9/11 Commission has warned us we have work to do. We are so happy 
to see this bill on the floor. So let's get it done as soon as 
possible, and then let's go to a debate on a cloud that is hanging over 
all our heads, regardless of how one feels about this war. Let's have 
that Senate debate, that respectful debate on how to achieve success 
and bring our troops home from Iraq.

I thank the Chair. I yield the floor.