# ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
## `d6a10e3db9ca865d85fa269967c37683`
`Ms. SNOWE — 31 January 2007`

---


Ms. SNOWE. For the record, I know the Senator from Virginia and the 
Senator from Michigan have had numerous conversations. The proposed 
changes in the resolution that was introduced this evening by the 
Senator from Virginia certainly reflect many of the concerns of those 
of us who are the cosponsors of the Biden-Hagel-Levin resolution 
regarding the troop surge. The changes in the proposed resolution now 
reinforce the opposition to troop increases. It does enhance the 
position. It solidifies the unified view of those of us who have 
adopted a position in opposition to the troop surge. It also helps to 
advance this debate. Now we can begin on a course of deliberation 
within the Senate.



I join the concerns of Senator Warner and our Republican leader that 
we should proceed in consideration of a resolution and not proceed out 
of order on the Warner resolution. It was introduced as a resolution. 
It should be debated and voted upon as a resolution here in the Senate. 
I am pleased, because I think it does unite us now that we have had 
these types of changes that I think go a long way to making a strong 
statement with respect to the President's proposed strategy of 
increasing troops in Iraq.

I thank the Senator from Virginia for offering this resolution as 
modified so we can proceed and embark on the deliberations that not 
only consistently are the traditions of this institution but also are 
consistent with the views of the people of this country that this 
issue, which is the preeminent one of our time, deserves a full and 
open debate.