---
---

# IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST
## `d6aa7dd4b9ec7997360c0be13de1a31f`
`Mr. WAMP — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. It's a privilege and an honor to come back down to the 
floor tonight. I want to talk on two fronts, really. The one is about 
Iraq and the other is the threat of radical Islam, Islamofascism, as 
some people call it; but I think it's important here right on the cusp 
of the sixth anniversary, tomorrow of 9/11, to remind our colleagues 
and our fellow countrymen that we are not only not out of the woods, 
but that these threats are grave. They are grave this week.

It's easy for everyone in this country to get lulled back into 
complacency or look for the comforts of our living room and shopping 
malls, but we face a huge growing and imminent threat from the terror 
itself here on our homeland.

We come, as members of the Republican Policy Committee tonight, we 
just left a briefing downstairs from a Lebanese Christian named 
Brigette Gabriel, who wrote a book called ''Why They Hate Us.'' Some 
would ignore her, but, frankly, coming from that world and able to go 
on Internet chat rooms and read Arabic and know what's going on out 
there, we should listen. We should listen very carefully to what's 
happening in the world of radical Islam.



I think it is very ironic that some of the very people who may have 
said a few months ago, ooh, let's embrace the Iraq Study Group's 
recommendations today would say, no, too late. We even heard that today 
from distinguished Democrats, some of them, too late. Too late. Too 
late for what?

Let me tell you, this is not good news. We're at war. There is no 
good news. But this is positive news from the battlefield. And I think 
it's very ironic that in Anbar, and now spreading from Anbar originally 
out through the tribal groups and the provinces, where we're making 
real progress is among the moderates, which is kind of


the Iraq Study Group's recommendation, is convert the moderates to 
allies. Work to get them to stand against the radicals; work to get the 
tribal leaders to say, al Qaeda is the enemy and we're now with the 
Americans and our allied forces. That's happening. But I'll bet you 
some people don't want to hear that positive news. That's the reality 
on the ground. That's important.

I would also say, though, in a macroscale, where some of the Iraq 
Study Group's recommendations can be very instructive today for all of 
us is we need to engage moderate Islam, not just in country, in Iraq, 
but throughout the world, because just the sheer numbers of growth 
within Islam, if you read the demographics, for instance, in Mark 
Steyn's book, ''America Alone'' it's overwhelming; 5 years out, 10 
years out, they swamp us in population. If you think Americans or 
Europeans are growing as a population, we're shrinking. We are 
shrinking. There's fewer and fewer of us every decade and millions and 
millions more Muslims.

And if the moderates within Islam won't stand against the radicals, 
that's why I reach out to the gentleman from Minnesota here in the 
House. Man, if there are freedom-loving people within Islam, where are 
they? They need to speak out. They need to be aggressive, and more and 
more of them in Iraq are because their relatives have been killed by al 
Qaeda. And once they kill your relative, maybe you're going to speak 
out. But they're intimidated; they're squashed.

Let me give you an example. Mark Steyn just tells us recently of a 
book that was published called ''Alms for Jihad; Charity and Terrorism 
in the Islamic World.'' A guy named Jay Millard Burr wrote it. Great 
research in Saudi Arabia where all this oil money, and we heard this 
downstairs from Brigette as well, using the Saudi Arabian oil money to 
promote terrorists around the world, period. It's happening. This 
documents, ''Alms for Jihad,'' how they're funneling through charities. 
A man named Sheikh Khalid bin Mahfouz heads it up. The charity is 
called the Khalid bin Mahfouz or Blessed Relief Foundation. Millions of 
Saudi oil dollars into this charity that funds al Qaeda directly. This 
book exposes the whole thing. So you need to go to Amazon.com or Barnes 
and Noble to get the book. But guess what? You can't get it. It 
vanished. It was bought up, taken out of circulation, financially, they 
took the book off the market.

Let me tell you, folks, in this country, from Dearborn, Michigan to 
right here in Virginia, Falls Church, Virginia, oil money from the 
wahabis in Saudi Arabia training up young people in this country, under 
a global Shari'ah, Islamic law, bringing them up against America in 
this country today.

Listen, this, to me, at the sixth anniversary of 9/11, is a call to 
action for Americans who've been lulled into complacency thinking that 
somehow this conflict is about Iraq. If we would just leave Iraq, all 
of our problems go away.

I'll say to you tonight, Mr. Speaker, this is not about Iraq. Iraq is 
the venue, it's the theater, it's where al Sadr is, it's where the 
Iranians and the Syrians have come, it's where they've recruited, it's 
where the fight is, but it's not about Iraq. It's about us and radical 
Islam at war. That's the theater. But let me tell you, it could just as 
easily be here tomorrow. God forbid it, but it could be just as easily 
here.

They have virtually taken some parts of Europe in terms of public 
opinion. They've challenged laws of countries and states in their 
courts, challenging Islamic law should take precedence, and that's what 
they would like to see here.

You may say, oh, he's wild; he's off the reservation. Not true. This 
is the way it is. They're using our very porous borders to come at us. 
And we're not secure. We're ignoring the threat.

Let me tell you what the Wall Street Journal editorial said last 
week. It said, the world's most political and religious pathologies, 
combine with oil and gas, terrorism and nuclear ambitions. In short, 
unlike yesterday's Vietnam, the greater Middle East, including Turkey, 
is the central strategic arena of the 21st century as Europe was in the 
20th century. This is where three continents, Europe, Asia and Africa, 
are joined. He goes on to say, so let's take a moment to think about 
what would happen if the last Black Hawk helicopter took off from 
Baghdad International. And he goes on to talk about Iran's influence in 
Iraq, emboldening Iran.


Clearly, Ahmadinejad said less than 2 weeks ago he can feel the 
United States in retreat in Iraq, and we've lost our will. And that 
when we leave because they force us out, Iran is prepared to fill the 
vacuum. That's what he said 2 weeks ago. We can ignore it if we want 
to. But let me tell you, a precipitous withdrawal that the left in this 
country is asking for, a forced withdrawal from Iraq today, will lead 
to the most destabilization in the world that we have seen.

And let me tell you, this threat we face, nobody wants to hear this, 
is greater than the threat of Nazi Germany. And if people say we had no 
business in Iraq, then we had no business storming the beaches of 
Normandy because the Germans didn't attack us. But we knew it was our 
obligation, as the leader of freedom in the world, to go and save 
Europe from Nazi Germany. We did that. We're doing it again, and it's 
uncomfortable.

As I said in the previous hour, my nephew's over there. Specialist 
Jeffrey Watts is fighting in Iraq for us tonight. I'd love for my 
nephew to come home, but not until we can leave in victory; not until 
we leave an Iraq and a Middle East that's more secure than they were 
yesterday; not until we can assure the American people that Iran is not 
going to rise up and seize control with nuclear weapons in the Middle 
East, unless you want to accept Armageddon.

I actually know how the story ends. I know the Bible from cover to 
cover, and I'm prepared to go on across that river at any time. But 
I've got to tell you, unless you're willing to just accept those 
ramifications, that's how high the stakes are in Iraq.

This is not George Bush's war. This is America's fight. We committed 
it together. Some people would like to blame it on others now and not 
accept the responsibility. But this is America's fight against radical 
Islam, and it will go on for years to come, even when Iraq is over. And 
there'll be a time where Iraq is not the central theater. I'm concerned 
we're going to be fighting radical Islam all the days of my life.

The question is, are we going to stand up, as generations before us 
have, and defend freedom. Are people like my nephew going to be willing 
to go and stand between a real threat in our civilian population, 
because that's what this is. And don't think for a second that it's all 
about Iraq. Some people dressed in pink would have you believe that. 
It's not true. And I'll tell you, what some of them are doing is 
downright un-American, and 50 years ago they'd have run them out of 
here on a rail.

I'd be happy to yield back to the gentleman.