---
---

# OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `d6b1a1d86c4c7e3a9cfa337705ca3b1a`
`Mr. KERRY — 5 March 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Madam President, I wish to talk about the amendment of the 
Senator from Arizona, Senator Kyl, amendment No. 634, which is a well-
intentioned amendment fundamentally but I think a misdirected 
amendment. The purpose of the amendment is to prohibit the expenditure 
of amounts of money made available under this act in a contract with 
any company that has a business presence in Iran's energy sector.

Effectively, what Senator Kyl is seeking to do on this appropriations 
bill--on the fly, without hearings within the appropriate committees of 
jurisdiction, and without any appropriate input by the administration--
a new administration, 1 month into office, and an administration that 
already has announced it has a new policy with respect to Iran--is to 
walk in here and apply a unilateral sanction by the United States.

Now, all of us share a very deep and real concern about the course 
Iran is on. We have just concluded 3 days of hearings in the Foreign 
Relations Committee on this very subject in order to get a better 
understanding of exactly what is happening in Iran, exactly what the 
possibilities may be, how we might avoid making the mistakes that were 
made in the last administration by rushing to judgment, and how we can 
proceed in a deliberative, thoughtful way. To simply attach to this 
appropriations bill this amendment in this way would be to contradict 
every single one of those legitimate interests of trying to approach a 
policy with regard to Iran in a thoughtful way.

First, let us make it very clear. We all know the effect of adopting 
this amendment, because of the procedural situation we are in, is very 
simple. It


keeps us from enacting this bill before the current continuing 
resolution expires. And given what we have heard from the House of 
Representatives, that means a vote for this amendment is effectively a 
vote against the Omnibus appropriations bill and it is a vote for a 
year-long continuing resolution at last year's funding levels. Given 
the state of our economy, given all of the initiatives contained in 
bills we should have passed last year and that we are only now getting 
to, it would be irresponsible in the context of the current economic 
situation of this country to deny some of these funds to flow and to 
put people back to work and to help create the future jobs for this 
country that we need.

On another level--and this is important--this amendment, if it 
passed, would actually have a very negative impact on the very office 
the Treasury Department--the Office of Terrorism and Financial 
Intelligence--would require to enforce the amendment. Why is that? 
Because in this omnibus bill that we want to pass is over $5 million, 
or about 10 percent over last year's budget, to help them be able to do 
the very job this amendment seeks to have them do. So the result of 
passing the amendment would be to take away the needed resources from 
the very people at the Treasury Department who right now are trying to 
track down and root out the Iranian banking and financial transactions 
that contribute directly to Iran's nuclear missile programs.

I think for the first reason alone you should not vote for this 
amendment, but the second reason not to vote for it is that it doesn't 
make sense to take money away from the people who are already doing the 
job we want them to do. That doesn't make sense. But more broadly--and 
I hope colleagues will think about this--this is not the time for this 
kind of an amendment.

We had a secret briefing yesterday afternoon with all of the DNI and 
CIA and other folks who are doing a lot of hard work with respect to 
Iran, and we spent a number of hours analyzing this. We are trying to 
come up with a multilateral approach that reaches out to the Europeans, 
to the Russians, to the Chinese and others, and we are trying to put 
together an Iran policy that makes sense. Developing a more effective 
Iran strategy is one of President Obama's top priorities, and getting 
it right is challenging. That is why the administration is undertaking 
the comprehensive review of its policy options even as it works to get 
its team in place. It doesn't make sense to come careening in here in 
the course of an afternoon, without hearings, without melding it into 
that larger strategy, to think about putting in place something that 
not only works against your interests but actually may wind up making 
it more difficult for our allies to be able to work with us, and 
without understanding how it fits into a broader strategy.

The President is right to open the door to direct engagement with 
Iran. And a lot of us are hoping--all of us hope, I think--that a more 
productive relationship is going to emerge, whereby we can explore 
areas of mutual interest. Believe it or not--a lot of people don't 
realize it at first blush--when you begin to look at the region and 
understand the dynamics of what is happening in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan and even Iraq, the fact is that Iran has the potential to be a 
constructive partner with respect to a number of different mutual 
interests. They do not like the Taliban, they have an interest in not 
having drugs come from Afghanistan across the border, they have other 
interests with respect to the stability of Afghanistan and other parts 
of that world.

The fact is they helped us--a lot of people don't realize this--
recently, in 2001 and 2002, when the Senate made almost a unanimous 
decision that we needed to respond to the 9/11 attacks by dealing with 
Afghanistan and a safe haven. Iran was enormously helpful to us in that 
effort. And in fact much of what we were able to accomplish with the 
northern alliance, with the placement of our personnel on the ground, 
and other things through other components of that relationship wound up 
being very constructive in helping us to achieve what we did. So there 
are possibilities of a different relationship.

Nobody is believing that mere talking is going to produce them, but 
you don't know until you talk what the possibilities are. And you 
certainly, if you ultimately are going to wind up going down a much 
tougher road, want to build your bona fides with other countries to 
show that you have made every effort to be able to find out whether 
there are alternatives. So I have long advocated that we take a 
different approach with respect to Iran, and I think this kind of 
measure gets flat bang immediately plunked down right in the way of 
being able to take those kinds of additional new initiatives.

The challenge for the Obama administration now is going to be to 
choose a series of red lines with respect to Iran's potential nuclear 
program. And to do that, everybody has learned we need to build 
coalitions with the Europeans, the Russians, the Chinese, and nations 
within the Middle East in order to be able to pull the full weight of 
the international community against Iran, should they defy common sense 
and the requirements of the nonproliferation treaty and the United 
Nations and the IAEA. So I think for diplomacy to proceed, we don't 
want to engage in unthought out, ad hoc efforts such as this particular 
amendment, which can get in the way of our ability to put together a 
strong multilateral coalition.

Here is another reality. This amendment would wind up actually making 
it more difficult to achieve that coalition, because it would 
indirectly sanction companies in some of the very countries we hope to 
enlist. That is going to be made more difficult if this amendment were 
to pass. So again, it is unwise to target unilateral sanctions at 
allies and other influential countries we need in order to help 
appropriately build a coalition to deal with Iran.

I mentioned earlier that the Foreign Relations Committee has been 
doing 3 days of hearings on this very topic. Today, we heard from two 
of the most distinguished and thoughtful individuals in America with 
respect to national security issues. They have both served as national 
security advisers to Presidents of the United States--Democratic and 
Republican. I am talking about Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski and GEN Brent 
Scowcroft. Both of them made perfectly clear that this kind of 
approach--the kind of approach in this amendment--is counterproductive 
to our overall strategy of bringing tough pressure to bear on Iran in 
order to change its direction.

So I say to my colleagues, going it alone on Iran may make you feel 
good, but it ain't smart, it is not playing to our strengths, and it is 
not permitting the current President of the United States, as Commander 
in Chief and as the initiator of our foreign policy, to be able to take 
the initiatives he wants. What is more, it is not even clear how the 
Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Asset Control would even be 
able to implement this amendment, and we haven't had any hearings to 
determine how they would implement this amendment.


This amendment would bar any funds provided by the bill for any new 
Federal contract with any company that has a ''business practice'' in 
Iran's energy sector. Well, nobody here even knows fully what the 
definition of a business practice is. Does that mean CIA? What does 
that mean in terms of anybody's understanding of what in fact is going 
to be banned? Moreover, the Office of Foreign Asset Control doesn't 
even catalogue those kinds of companies right now. So all of a sudden 
you pass the money and you are going to ask them to start tracking, no 
matter how small that company. It is going to distract them, frankly, 
from the serious work they are doing now to root out and shut down 
Iran's nuclear missile-related procurement transactions around the 
world. That is more important than diverting to this subeffort.

The bottom line is our challenges with Iran are plain too serious to 
be making foreign policy on the fly in an amendment to an 
appropriations bill without hearing and without even adequately 
understanding fully the terms within it. The committees of jurisdiction 
have not debated this approach. They haven't had any votes on this 
approach. There may well be a time and place for this kind of a 
provision. Maybe this provision will fit into a series of escalating 
sanctions which we have already been talking about within the Foreign 
Relations Committee. But we ought to do that not in this ad hoc way but 
in a thoughtful and disciplined


way, and I think we will have a much stronger policy if we do that.

Madam President, I yield the floor.