---
---

# RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 11 AS A DAY OF REMEMBRANCE
## `d6b4475bd4640568979e8cdb9396ff69`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 10 September 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. 
Res. 643. I support this resolution because although six years have 
passed since that fateful, horrific day, the pain and agony and sense 
of loss still endures in the hearts and minds of the American people. 
More than 3,000 of our countrymen had the fullness of their lives 
snatched away from their families, their friends, and the communities 
they loved and that loved them. We can never forget what happened that 
day to the victims. Or to those who sacrificed their lives to save 
them. Or to our country, which suffered a wound to the body politic 
unlike any in previous history. And in remembering what happened to us 
six years ago, we are reminded what we must do now and in the future to 
redeem all of the lives lost that fateful day.

Mr. Speaker, on September 11, 2001, the Nation watched in horror as 
the World Trade Center was transformed into a human inferno that 
claimed thousands of innocent lives. 9/11 was a despicable act of 
faceless cowards who have no respect for human life. Across the United 
States and around the world, people of all ages and walks of life 
collectively united during a time of tremendous sorrow and despair. It 
was an unforgettable day that transformed the lives of many and united 
Americans in a way this Nation had not seen since World War II.

Mr. Speaker, during this commemoration Americans turn toward each 
other. We seek to embrace, we seek to love, we still mourn the nearly 
3,000 Americans whose lives were viciously taken on September 11, 2001. 
I stand before this House today simply to offer my deepest sympathy and 
that of my constituents of the 18th Congressional District of the State 
of Texas.

Six years ago, in the immediate aftermath of the attacks on our 
country, many brave people


heroically, tirelessly, and courageously participated in an 
extraordinarily difficult and dangerous rescue and recovery effort, in 
many cases voluntarily putting their own well-being at risk. Others 
jeopardized their lives to bring the terrorist to justice or to bring 
justice to the terrorized.

The war in Afghanistan, Operation Enduring Freedom was a just war. An 
attack on one, was an attack on all. It was an attack on our way of 
life. It was an attack on our deepest and most cherished beliefs. It 
was an attack on the freedom and liberty embedded in the foundation of 
this Nation. Since that memorable day our war efforts have been 
deferred from its original purpose and many lives lost have yet to 
receive justice. Six years later and Osama bin Laden still roams free. 
American blood and treasure are being depleted for a country unyielding 
to change.

As Operation Enduring Freedom showed, a united America can never be 
defeated. The indomitable Armed Forces of the United States swiftly 
toppled the Taliban and liberated Afghanistan and was hard on the heels 
of Osama bin Laden, who was trapped in Tora Bora. But before they could 
bring this mass murderer to justice, they were inexplicably diverted to 
Iraq, where the President had launched a new war against an enemy that 
posed no immediate threat to the security of America and had no 
involvement in the attack of September 11. In dividing our armed forces 
between Afghanistan and Iraq, this Administration divided the American 
people and alienated friendly nations who were helping us to win the 
Global War on Terror.

Mr. Speaker, we will do everything in our power to prevent a tragedy 
like 9/11 from ever occurring again. Americans will not live in fear of 
a terrorist like Osama bin Laden. First responders should and will be 
equipped with all the tools necessary to meet the needs of the American 
people. Thus, today we celebrate the unsung heroes, and the families 
who survived them, and rededicate ourselves to protecting and securing 
the lives of the American people from any future threats.


So horrific and traumatic were the events of September 11 that is 
engraved in our minds as well as our hearts. A day when time literally 
stood still and people from all walks of life came together. A day 
where many of us can vividly recall exactly where we were and what we 
were doing. September 11 was a day that shook the whole world 
witnessed.

Mr. Speaker, throughout the history of the United States there have 
been few events that have had transformative impact on the people of 
the country. For my parents' generation the death of President Franklin 
Roosevelt was such an occasion. For my generation, the assassination of 
President Kennedy in 1963 is a moment that lives with us forever. The 
explosion of the Shuttle Challenger in 1986 left a traumatic and 
indelible impression on my children's generation. The morning of 
September 11, 2001 is a day all living Americans will remember forever.

Today, six years later, my heart still grieves for those who perished 
on flights United Airlines 93, American Airlines 77, American Airlines 
11, and United Airlines 175. When the sun rose on the morning of 
September 11, we were all oblivious to the devastation that would later 
plague the nation. None of us knew that it would end in an inferno in 
the magnificent World Trade Center Towers in New York City and the 
Pentagon and in the grassy fields of Shanksville, Pennsylvania. How I 
wish we could have hugged and kissed and held each of the victims one 
last time.

I stand here remembering those who still suffer, whose hearts still 
ache over the loss of so many innocent and interrupted lives. My prayer 
is that those who lost a father, a mother, a husband, a wife, a child, 
or a friend will in the days and years ahead take comfort in the 
certain knowledge that they have gone on to claim the greatest prize, a 
place in the Lord's loving arms. And down here on the ground, their 
memory will never be forgotten.

We will always remember September 11 as the day that brought the 
whole world together. Many people lost their loved ones. Mr. Speaker, 
as hard as it is to believe, out of a tragedy so overwhelming and 
horrific, something good and great emerged. In the midst of September 
11, there were no Republicans or Democrats. There were no Northerners 
or Southerners or West or East Coasters. We were not Red State or Blue 
State. We were all simply Americans. On that day, we were united in our 
shock and anger and sadness. More importantly, we were united in our 
resolve to defend our country and protect the freedoms that have made 
America the greatest country in the history of the world.

As we continue to pray for the families of the victims and reflect 
upon that defining moment in our history, we are inspired by the fact 
that we are a people determined to defend our way of life. But for the 
better part of six years, we had allowed ourselves to be held hostage 
by the fear and anger that overwhelmed us on September 11. Over time 
hearts have healed and a new sense of hope and security has developed 
amongst the people of this nation. Since that horrific day many lives 
have continued to be sacrificed and it is time to bring our troops home 
and unite once more as a nation that serves as the home of the brave 
and the free.

As we move forward we hold true to the fact that 9/11 is a day that 
we will never forget. September 11 will never and should never be just 
another day in the hearts and minds of all people of the United States; 
but rather a day to reflect on the lives lost and the undying hope that 
prevails within the hearts and minds of the American people. Although 
the future is uncertain we can hold true to the strong will and 
compassion that united our nation during a day meant to divide and 
destroy us. We, the 110th Congress have an obligation to protect the 
American people from harm and ensure that a tragedy such as 9/11 never 
happens again.

Mr. Speaker, I believe all Americans want their country to remain 
safe, free, and invulnerable to another cowardly attack like the one we 
experienced six years ago. We owe that much to the Americans who lost 
and gave their lives. We owe it to them to ensure that their children 
and loved ones will never again experience such pain, suffering, and 
loss. We can do this. We must do this. But to bring this new future 
into being, we need a new direction from the present course.

I urge all members to join me in supporting H. Res. 643.