---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `d6b5beeffa6dd64c4e79525a987c4e13`
`Mr. ROSS — 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Arkansas for joining me this 
evening and talking about the lack of accountability within the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency.

To recount, February 24, 2007, a week ago Saturday, not one, but two 
tornadoes devastated the town of Dumas and the Back Gate community in 
Desha County. The Governor declared it a State disaster, called out 150 
members of the Arkansas National Guard who were there for nearly a 
week. It took crews of more than a hundred working for 5 days to 
restore electricity to that delta county. Some 600 to 800 people remain 
out of work because of the damage done to their workplace. And yet here 
we are, a week ago Saturday in Dumas, horrible tornados. And the ironic 
thing is that FEMA has a staging area with 8,420 brand new fully 
furnished mobile homes 3 hours away, filled with Ashley furniture and 
built-in microwaves ready to be set up, and the mayor and the county 
judge, Marion Gill, the mayor of Dumas, Mark McElroy, the county judge 
in Desha County, they have got sites available. The zoning is cleared 
with city water, with water and electrical and sewer hook-ups, and yet 
FEMA, which is supposed to be in the business of helping people, 
refused to move a single one of these to the more than 150 people who 
lost their home, like this family right here.



This is one of the 150 homes that were either totally destroyed or 
heavily damaged. Yes, some of these folks had insurance, but yes, we 
have 8,420 mobile homes 3 hours away that are not doing anybody any 
good sitting at the airport in a hay meadow. They were purchased to 
help people.

There is no place to rent in Dumas. These folks in Dumas and Desha 
County need a place to live temporarily. We are not asking that they 
give these mobile homes to them. We are asking for temporary 
assistance. That is what FEMA is in the business of or supposed to be. 
Allow these folks to temporarily live in 150 of these 8,420 brand new 
mobile homes, filled with Ashley furniture.

They are not doing anybody good in Hope. Let us get them moving, Mr. 
Speaker, to Dumas, Arkansas, and let these folks in Dumas who lost 
their homes or had their homes heavily damaged live in them temporarily 
while they get their life put back together and rebuild their homes.

Mr. Speaker, this is not the first time we have raised this issue. 
Here is the timeline, talk about accountability and restoring 
accountability to our government: Saturday, February 24, two tornadoes 
devastated the communities of Dumas and Back Gate in Desha County. 
Monday, February 26, I surveyed the damage on the ground and in the air 
along with Governor Beebe and other elected officials. Governor Beebe 
named Desha County a State disaster area and announced his plans to 
request a Federal disaster declaration.

Tuesday, February 27, I held a conference call with FEMA Director 
David Paulison, along with Senator Lincoln from Arkansas and staff for 
Senator Pryor. In the call, I conveyed my support of Governor Beebe and 
requested FEMA expedite their decision and action as well as encouraged 
FEMA to use 150 manufactured homes from this supply of 8,420 of them 
from Hope, Arkansas, just 3 hours away, for the families without 
shelter in Desha County.

Later Tuesday, my staff talked with FEMA again regarding the status 
of the disaster declaration, and they expressed that they did not read 
the laws as we did and that they are still working with Arkansas to 
gather information. In other words, the bureaucracy began.

Wednesday, February 28, I joined with both senators, Senator Lincoln 
and Senator Pryor from Arkansas in sending a letter to President Bush 
and FEMA Director Paulison supporting Governor Beebe's request for a 
Federal disaster declaration.

Thursday, March 1, 2007, I again talked with FEMA Director Paulison 
regarding the lack of a response and movement of these mobile homes 
from Hope and expressed my displeasure with his office. It had been 6 
days since the tornadoes and the communities were just beginning to 
regain electricity in parts of the town. At that point, FEMA says the 
reason for not declaring a disaster area is the high rate of insured 
homes and the fact that the State is capable of taking care of the 
damage.

Supposedly, they told CNN, FEMA did, that the State has a surplus 
this year, and they do not need their help. Well, Mr. Speaker, that is 
the craziest thing I have ever heard of. The city and county is a very 
rural area. It is in the delta region. They lost half their sales tax 
base when a big retail store left about a year ago. They had a Fred's 
Dollar Store and a grocery store left, and they have been destroyed. 
They have, at least for a short period of time, perhaps up to a year, 
lost much of their tax base. At the same time, they are struggling to 
pay for a new county hospital and new city hospital there in Dumas, and 
they are not getting any help from the one agency that we thought was 
supposed to be there to help us in the time of need, the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency.

Friday, March 2, 2007, I again joined with Senators Lincoln and Pryor 
to send another letter to FEMA in support of Governor Beebe and the 
immediate need for mobile homes in Desha County.

Saturday, March 3, during an address in Memphis, Tennessee, at the 
55th Annual Mid-South Farm and Cotton Gin show, I commented on the lack 
of response from FEMA one week after the tornadoes.

I went to Hope, and I stood in front of these 8,420 mobile homes to 
highlight the waste of taxpayers' money, the fact that these brand new, 
fully furnished manufactured homes are just 3 hours away from Dumas, 
yet they are not being put to good use. They are not helping the people 
some 3 hours away in Dumas.

Then, Tuesday, March 5, 2007, that is today, I joined Senators 
Lincoln and Pryor in sending a letter in support of Governor Beebe's 
request to the U.S. Small Business Administration to request small 
business disaster loans be administered in Desha County to help the 25 
businesses which were destroyed and the more than 800 employees who are 
now without a job or a place to work nearby, some 600 to 800 depending 
on which day it is and which businesses are able to get back up.

My office hand delivered letters from me and photos I took, this 
photo right here. We delivered an 8x10 copy of this photo along with a 
letter today to President Bush, to FEMA Director Paulison, and to the 
Department of Homeland Security Secretary Chertoff, making one final 
plea to assist these folks in this forgotten delta county.

Well, we have gone on long enough on this, Mr. Speaker, but I think 
it is important. As members of the Blue Dogs, we talk about 
accountability, and you cannot talk about accountability and the lack 
of it without talking about FEMA. Again 8,420 brand new mobile homes 
sitting there at the Hope airport, not doing anybody any good, and I 
have got 150 homes either totally destroyed or damaged like one 3 hours 
away.

It has been more than a week. FEMA refuses to send a single mobile 
home to assist these folks. If they are not going to move them 3 hours 
away to a disaster area, Mr. Speaker, I can assure you these mobile 
homes will never be put to the public good. They will never go to help 
people if they are not going to help people 3 hours away in their time 
of need.

I am, once again, Mr. Speaker, imploring the President and the 
director of FEMA and the Secretary of Homeland Security to do the right 
thing and to get some of these mobile homes moving to Dumas, where 
tonight 30 people are living in a metal building. They need our help, 
Mr. Speaker.

That is what the Blue Dog Coalition is all about. We are about trying 
to restore common sense and fiscal discipline to our national 
government, and we are about accountability.

In fact, Mr. Speaker, we have what is called the Iraq War 
Accountability Act, and we are going to be talking about that more this 
evening.

Mr. Speaker, as you walk the halls of Congress, it is easy to know 
when you are walking by an office that belongs to a member of the 
fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition. Why? Because you 
will see this poster. A poster reminding Members of Congress and 
reminding the people who


walk the halls of Congress that our Nation is in debt.

Today, the U.S. national debt is $8,811,969,377,773 and some change, 
and if you divide that by every man, woman and child in America, your 
share, Mr. Speaker, of the national debt is $29,245. It is time that 
this Nation get its fiscal house in order, and one of the ways we do 
that is by restoring accountability to our Federal agencies, which is 
what this business with FEMA is all about, trying to restore 
accountability and common sense and cutting through the bureaucracy and 
red tape to help people in their time of need.


At this time, it is a pleasure for me to yield to my friend from the 
State of Ohio (Mr. Wilson). We are pleased to have Mr. Wilson as a new 
Member of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, and 
at this time, I recognize Mr. Wilson.