---
---

# None
## `d6c0defd1e9299a574ba73ef1e05da5f`
`Mr. BOOZMAN — 11 December 2007`

---


Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 797 is a very, very good bill, and I 
appreciate Ms. Baldwin working so hard. I think we could actually use 
the adjective tirelessly on this one, in order to bring it forward.

It really has two provisions that I'm especially pleased to support. 
First, I'm pleased that this bill will help veterans with visual 
disabilities. To put this in perspective, VA compensates about 13,000 
veterans for blindness in one eye.



DOD statistics show that about 1,169 servicemembers have experienced 
eye injuries in Iraq, and VA states about 111 of those are now 
receiving compensation. And let us not forget that with the number of 
traumatic brain injury casualties, and those that have gone 
undiagnosed, many of them will experience visual impairment as a result 
of those injuries. Thanks to Ms. Baldwin's work in bringing this 
forward, the change in this law will make sure that all of these 
individuals will be treated fairly.

I am also greatly pleased that we have been able to fund 
reinstatement of the GI Bill work-study provisions that expired last 
June. These additional work-study jobs will benefit both the veteran 
student and veterans at large by increasing the resources available to 
assist VA employees in accomplishing their mission.

Mr. Speaker, this is a very good bill and I urge my colleagues to 
support it. I also want to thank Mr. Filner and his staff for, again, 
bringing this forward, along with Mr. Buyer, the ranking member; and 
the staff over here. Again, this is a very good bill, and I urge 
support of its passage with my colleagues.