---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `d6c24edf79881edc848bb63ec0a4554b`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. When we send them into battle, we have the 
obligation of saying there is a beginning and an end. World War I, 
World War II, wars that we may have liked or disliked, but we knew as 
they went into battle that there was an ending. And how brave they 
were.

As we saluted the women who participated in the Air Army Corps for 
Women, the WASPs today, some hundreds of them, we know that there is no 
doubt that they are brave. But I would say to you, end this war with 
Afghanistan and end this partnership with Pakistan. There are ways to 
be able to support the structure of both governments without our 
soldiers losing their lives on and on and on.

This resolution says that if the President finds it necessary to 
extend, he can do so. But we are asking for the troops to be out by the 
end of this year. So many of us have spoken to that over and over 
again.

Madam Speaker, this is not something unusual. This is not a cause of 
the fearful. This is not a cause of those who are nonpatriotic. This is 
a cause for people who believe in the red, white, and blue, who stand 
here today loving their country and believe that our soldiers are owed 
this respect to bring them home as heroes. We ask that you support this 
resolution.

Madam Speaker, I rise in solemn opposition to a war that has cost too 
many American lives and too many American dollars. To date, over 1,000 
Americans have lost their lives in the Afghan theatre, including 70 in 
2010. In 2009, 316 Americans lost their lives. The war in Afghanistan 
should end as safely and quickly as possible, and our troops should be 
brought home with honor and a national day of celebration. I strongly 
believe that this can and must be done by the end of the year.

This stance is borne from my deeply held belief that we must commend 
our military for their exemplary performance and success in 
Afghanistan. As lawmakers continue to debate U.S. policy in 
Afghanistan, our heroic young men and women continue to willingly 
sacrifice life and limb on the battlefield. Our troops in Afghanistan 
did everything we asked them to do. We sent them overseas to destroy 
the roots of terror and protect our homeland; they are now caught in 
the midst of an insurgent civil war and continuing political upheaval.

Throughout the discussion of the administration's proposed surge, I 
expressed my concern for the cost of sending additional troops, as well 
as the effect that a larger presence in Afghanistan will have on troop 
morale. The White House estimates that it will cost $1 million per year 
for each additional soldier deployed, and I believe that $30 billion 
would be better spent on developing new jobs and fixing our broken 
healthcare system. Many leaders in our armed forces, including 
Secretary Gates, have said that it is optimal for troops to have two 
years between overseas deployments; yet, today, our troops have only a 
year at home between deployments. Expanding the number of U.S. forces 
in Afghanistan by 30,000 will negatively impact troop morale and will 
bring us further away from the conditions necessary to maintain a 
strong, all-volunteer military. This is not President Obama's war and I 
applaud his thoughtful leadership--the Congress now needs to give 
counsel to have a time certain for the troops to come home.

I very strongly believe that our nation has a moral obligation to 
ensure that our veterans are treated with the respect and dignity that 
they deserve. One reason that we are the greatest nation in the world 
is because of the brave young men and women fighting for us in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and they deserve 
to know that a grateful nation cares about them. Whether or not my 
colleagues agree that the time has come to withdraw our American forces 
from Afghanistan, I believe that all of us in Congress should be of one 
accord that our troops deserve our sincere thanks and congratulations.

It is because I respect our troops that I am voting to bring them 
home from a war that has strayed far beyond its original mandate. The 
United States will not and should not permanently prop up the Afghan 
government and military. To date, almost $27 billion--more than half of 
all reconstruction dollars--have been apportioned to build the Afghan 
National Security Forces. The focus should be on strengthening the 
civilian government for it to lead. And we should continue to chase the 
real terrorists that are now lodged in Pakistan. We must support 
governments with a diplomatic surge--more resources for schools, 
hospitals, and government reform.

U.S. military involvement in Afghanistan will come to an end, and 
when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their nation 
will fall to the people and government of Afghanistan. Governance is 
more than winning elections, it is about upholding human rights, 
especially the rights of women; it requires fighting corruption. 
Governance requires fighting corruption. Governance requires providing 
for the freedom to worship. Governance requires establishing schools 
that provide education from early childhood through higher education.

Yet, Afghanistan has largely failed to institute the internal reforms 
necessary to justify America's continued involvement. The recent 
elections did not reflect the will of the people, and the government 
has consistently failed to gain the trust of the people of Afghanistan. 
The troubling reports about the elections that were held on August 20, 
2009 were the first in a series of very worrisome developments. The 
electoral process is at the heart of democracy, and the disdain for 
that process that was displayed in the Afghanistan elections gives me 
great pause. The Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
Reconstruction recently released his quarterly report which detailed 
our nation's efforts to work with contractors and the Afghanistan 
government to prevent fraud and enhance transparency. This is the 8th 
report by the Special Inspector General, but as a recent series in the 
Washington Post showed, we are unable to stem the flow of corruption 
and waste within Afghanistan, despite our efforts at reforming our own 
contracting procedures. This money likely comes from the opium trade 
and U.S. assistance and, the Washington Post estimates, totals over one 
billion dollars each year.


The task of establishing legitimate governing practices remains 
formidable. A November 17, 2009 report from Transparency International 
listed Afghanistan as the second most corrupt country in the world, 
continuing its second straight year of declining in the corruption 
index. Such news is disparaging and provides an important dynamic to 
how we consider our strategy with regards to Afghanistan going forward. 
In January, a U.N. survey found that an overwhelming 59 percent of 
Afghans view public dishonesty as a bigger concern than insecurity (54 
percent) and unemployment (52 percent). This is telling for a country 
with widespread violence and an unemployment rate of 40 percent.

As co-chair of the Congressional U.S.-Afghanistan Caucus, I have 
called for policies that allow the United States to provide benefits to 
the people of Afghanistan. Our effort must enhance our efforts at 
building both hard and soft infrastructure in Afghanistan. Change in 
Afghanistan is going to come through schools and roads, through health 
care and economic opportunity, and through increased trade and 
exchange. The Afghan people need our help to achieve these objectives, 
but I am not convinced that our military is the solution. If the 
Government of Afghanistan can demonstrate a responsible and non-corrupt 
commitment to its people, I believe that America should respond with 
appropriate and targeted foreign assistance.

I am also concerned that the United States is shouldering too much of 
the burden in Afghanistan. Although the terror attacks on American soil 
prompted NATO to respond with collective military action, no nation is 
immune from the threat of terrorism. Although the troops and resources 
provided by our allies have been invaluable to date, especially 
regarding development for the people of Afghanistan, questions must be 
raised about how long other nations will remain involved in 
Afghanistan. France and Germany, for example have already questioned 
whether or not to send additional troops. NATO resources must continue 
to focus on improving the livelihoods of the Afghan people, but if the 
support of these governments wavers, American troops and Afghan 
citizens will suffer the consequences.

I agree with our President that a stable Afghanistan is in the best 
interest of the international community, and I was pleased to see 
President Obama's outreach to our allies for additional troops. 
Currently, 41 NATO and other allied countries contribute nearly 36,000 
troops. That number is expected to increase by nearly 6,000 with at 
least 5,000 additional troops coming from NATO member countries. 
Multilateralism is vital to ensuring that our operations in Afghanistan 
succeed.

Madam Speaker, today, we face difficult realities on the ground. The 
Taliban attacks our forces whenever and wherever they can. Agents of 
the Taliban seek to turn the people of Afghanistan against us as we 
attempt to provide them with help in every way we can. This situation 
is unsustainable. Afghanistan's history has earned it the nickname, 
''The Graveyard of Empires,'' and I believe that we should not take 
this grim history lightly. By including a timetable for our operations 
in Afghanistan, we focus our mission and place it in a long-term 
context.



Although development to improve the lives of the Afghan people is 
important, defeating al-Qaeda and the threat they pose to America and 
our allies is the most important objective of our operations. To that 
end, I believe that Pakistan, not Afghanistan, is now the key to 
success and stability in the region. Over the past eight years, 
coalition forces have successfully pushed most of al-Qaeda out of 
Afghanistan and into Pakistan. This has not only put them outside the 
mandate of our forces, but has also forced Pakistan to address an 
enlarged terrorist threat.

During his State of the Union Address, President Obama spoke of the 
importance of Pakistan when he noted ''America will remain a strong 
supporter of Pakistan's security and prosperity long after the guns 
have fallen silent, so that the great potential of its people can be 
unleashed.'' As the co-chair of the Congressional Pakistan Caucus, I 
know, firsthand, of the great potential of the Pakistani people, and I 
strongly believe that the recently approved assistance package to 
Pakistan will work to this end. U.S. foreign assistance to Pakistan 
will improve Pakistan's capacity to address terrorist networks within 
its own borders, but I worry that a troop increase will cause even more 
refugees and insurgents to cross into Pakistan.

Ultimately, we in Congress must decide what is in the best interest 
of the American people. Fighting al-Qaeda was in the best interest of 
the American people in 2001, as it continues to be today. Yet, we are 
now fighting an insurgency--not al-Qaeda--in Afghanistan. This should 
not be their mission, and we must bring our troops home.

