---
---

# ENHANCING SMALL BUSINESS RESEARCH AND INNOVATION ACT OF 2009
## `d6dba9ca56816e2101095568dabd0c93`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 8 July 2009`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this 
amendment, and I thank Congressman Reichert for offering it.

These are two critical programs. And I thank the committee, as well, 
for their excellent work in reauthorizing these programs, the SBIR and 
the STTR programs, which are designed to help small businesses with 
innovative products get access to help from the Small Business 
Administration to promote those products, and in particular, to 
emphasize help for veteran-owned businesses, small businesses, 
minorities, and underrepresented areas.

I applaud Mr. Reichert for offering this amendment as we reach out to 
those people and try to make them aware of this program, which has been 
a significant challenge, as Mr. Reichert outlined, of people being 
aware of the opportunities that are there. It makes a great deal of 
sense to those same veterans, minorities, and underrepresented areas to 
do that outreach. I think this is a well thought-out amendment that 
will help enormously in making sure those people get access to these 
critical programs.

As Mr. Reichert mentioned, there are a large number of veterans 
coming back from fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan who are looking for 
these opportunities. This amendment will help make sure that our 
veterans get that help that they need to find those opportunities that 
are there.

And this will also be a huge boon to our economy. There are a lot of 
great ideas amongst these groups. If we can take those ideas, turn them 
into businesses and turn them into jobs, we all benefit from it, while 
at the same time helping our veterans who so richly deserve our help.

This is an important amendment that will help facilitate access by 
veteran-owned and other underrepresented businesses to the SBIR and 
STTR programs that we are discussing today.

As was already explained by my colleague, this amendment ensures that 
the outreach to underserved areas and underrepresented small businesses 
called for in this legislation will be conducted by organizations that 
include those which serve underrepresented States, regions, and 
businesses owned by women, persons of minority status, or service-
disabled veterans.

As my district is home to many veterans who have gone on to start 
small businesses, and with many who will soon return home from service 
abroad and look to start businesses of their own, I am proud to offer 
this amendment with my colleague, Mr. Reichert. This amendment will 
help to ensure that there are avenues available to those veterans and 
other underrepresented small business owners that would benefit from 
the assistance offered by the SBA.

I ask that my colleagues support this amendment.