---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d6dfd64fba13dad2982cade464707b49`
`Mr. SIMPSON — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today not because I want to take 
part in this debate, but because I am ashamed that this Congress is 
engaging in it at all.

I've heard a lot of posturing so far this week. I've heard a lot of 
hyperbole and a lot of revisionist history. I've also heard some things 
that just don't mesh with reality. I don't think that everything my 
colleagues say is completely honest. So for a moment, let's be honest--
because that is the least we owe to our constituents and to the men and 
women who are fighting this war.

I am willing to admit that if Congress knew in 2002 what it knows 
today it might not have voted to authorize the war. Knowing that Saddam 
Hussein apparently did not have weapons of mass destruction, Congress 
might have preferred to contain him, perhaps bomb him, strengthen 
international sanctions, and work with our allies in the region to 
undermine his regime.

But we can't go back to 2002 and redo that vote. We have to deal with 
the situation that is currently before us. And what is before us right 
now is a Congressional resolution that undermines our troops while they 
are in the middle of fighting a war that Congress sent them to fight. I 
do not understand why my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
don't see that.

For just a moment, I want to ask my colleagues to put themselves in 
the positions of the thousands of soldiers on the ground in Iraq. What 
would you think if you learned that the very people who sent you to 
fight this war are now saying that they don't support what you are 
doing? On the ground in Iraq, there are two things that keep you going: 
the thought of returning home to your family and the knowledge that you 
are doing something to protect your nation from terrorism. But if 
Congressional Democrats have their way today, they will take away from 
our soldiers the support of their Congress and of their country. What a 
terrible message to send to these brave soldiers.

For just a moment, put yourself in the shoes of the terrorists. What 
would you think when you heard the U.S. Congress is voting against the 
war? You would think you were winning. You would be encouraged by the 
news. You would think that everything Osama Bin Laden had said about 
Americans had been true all along. You would think that Americans 
cannot stand bloodshed and will cower from the fight. You would think 
that they don't have the stomach for a long-term battle and if the 
terrorists just hold on, the United States will eventually leave with 
its tails between its legs. What a terrible message to send at the 
exact moment that we are preparing to send more troops into battle.

At some point, my colleagues across the aisle have to let go of the 
fact that their newfound opposition to the War in Iraq is popular in 
their districts and act in the best interests for the future of our 
Nation. This resolution isn't a diversion, a side-show, or even a shot 
across the bow. It is a dangerous message to send.

I don't say any of this lightly and I don't say it for political 
reasons. I say it because I mean it. In 2006, I was the only Republican 
to vote against the rule when my party tried to embarrass Mr. Murtha. 
Then, I thought that my party was playing games with the war and I 
refused to support that effort. Today, I think that the other party is 
playing games with the war and I refuse to have any part of this.

I would rather we consider a motion to pull all of our troops out of 
Iraq immediately than vote on this Democrat resolution that undermines 
our troops while at the same time puts them in harm's way. This 
resolution is the worst of all worlds.

My final thought today is that it is clear to many of us that this 
resolution is simply a Democratic attempt to embarrass President Bush. 
My friends across the aisle know they can not impeach him. They know 
they can not change the fact that many of them voted for the War in 
Iraq. And most of them recognize the dangers of voting to defund the 
war. So instead, they are trying to embarrass the President.

I say fine, embarrass the President. Send him a message that you are 
now in charge. Remind him that voters demanded change last November. Do 
whatever you need to do, but don't undermine our troops in the process. 
Leave them out of your plans for payback because they did nothing to 
attract your anger or frustration.

Madam Speaker, what we are doing today is wrong. We're better than 
this. We're smarter than this. We're above using the war, and our 
troops, for political gain. What the Democrats are doing with this 
resolution is not just intellectually dishonest, it is morally 
bankrupt.