# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2996, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR,  ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `d6e0e8dc75386d17388af877fcb30c2d`
`Mr. LEWIS of California â€” 29 October 2009`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. I appreciate my colleagues yielding me the 
time.

Madam Speaker, I want to commend my good friends, Chairman Norm Dicks 
and Mike Simpson, for a rather fabulous job of working together on this 
bill. While I am concerned about the volume of dollar increases, there 
is no doubt that this bill represents much of the most positive work on 
behalf of our country, especially the work of the EPA, I might mention. 
I want to say to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Dicks) that you 
have reason to be proud of this bill. My wife tells me that she has 
gotten an inkling from your wife, Susie, that she is very proud of the 
work you have done here as well, and she welcomes you back home one of 
these days.

Anyway, moving right along, while I wish to suggest that the money 
allotted in this bill is more than adequate, I am very hopeful that in 
organizations like EPA that we will be able to not find ourselves just 
awash in funding and, thereby, begin to throw funding at programs. In 
the meantime, there is little doubt that there is plenty of work to be 
done. The Interior appropriations conference report is important, but 
it's only the fifth of 12 conference reports that we need to complete. 
We now find ourselves 29 days into the new fiscal year, and we have 
fewer than half of our bills done.

Sadly, the most important appropriations bills, the defense bill and 
the military construction and Veterans Affairs bills, are being put on 
the shelf, being held for a time and a purpose that causes us all to 
wonder. There is no better illustration of the misplaced priorities of 
this Democrat majority leadership than that fact. This leadership chose 
to send to the President the legislative branch bill for its first bill 
of the year. Imagine that. While the troops are awaiting our assistance 
and serious recognition of the challenges they face, the legislative 
branch bill was first sent to the President's desk--to make sure we've 
got enough money, I guess, to make sure they keep the lights on while 
we're talking to the public today. And what kind of a signal does that 
send to those who are in harm's way at this moment, protecting our 
freedom?

Mr. Speaker, what kind of signal are we sending, and what is our 
purpose for holding these bills on the shelf? The House passed the 
Defense appropriations bill. It contains critical funding for the men 
and women of our Armed Forces, including over 130,000 troops stationed 
in Iraq and over 60,000 troops currently in Afghanistan. The $128 
billion provided for the U.S. warfighting efforts is essential to 
continue our mission overseas and to provide critical resources, as I 
have said. The defense bill is ready to go today, and it should be 
moving today. So Mr. Speaker, why the delay?

The military construction-Veterans Affairs bill is also essential. We 
have all talked about our commitment to our veterans. This legislation 
contains much-needed funds for military construction, family housing, 
pension payments for disabled veterans, widows and children, and the 
veterans medical care and treatment programs across the country. While 
the Senate has had


over 100 days to complete its work on this bill--that is the 
preliminary construction VA bill--this bill is still not in conference. 
Given the importance of each of these bills, why are they being 
delayed?

Well, reports have indicated that the Democratic leadership may use 
these bills to carry controversial legislation that could--at least 
they seem to think--could not be passed as stand-alone measures. What 
in the world does increasing the national debt limitation or the 
District of Columbia voting rights bill have to do with our national 
defense or providing for our veterans? Mr. Speaker, the House has 
wasted weeks and months on trivial legislative matters, as I have 
suggested. The Congress is setting a dangerous precedent by holding up 
these major pieces of legislation rather than acting in an expeditious 
way. Let's move forward quickly today, pass this bill. I intend to vote 
against it because of the dollar amounts. But in the meantime, I will 
listen with care to this discussion.