# REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE
## `d6fb5605acd3d81ddacfd1e46306d2ea`
`Mr. CARTER â€” 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. That is correct. And I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
As it turns out, we have got a whole room full of folks here that want 
to address this issue. But we talked earlier between you and our 
neighbor from New Mexico, and we have each been three times.

But let me point out that as Congressman Pearce pointed out, the men 
and women that are in Iraq today, most of them are on their fourth 
rotation over there. Many of those people have been there four times, 
four times for a year, sometimes, or better, each time they've been. 
When we go, we are very blessed to be able to go over there, but 
generally time is very short and if we spend 3 or 4 days in country, we 
have been there a long time. These soldiers have gone over there 
voluntarily.

You know, one of the things that I think is a misconception that 
seems to be played out both in our coverage in the media and in the 
comments that we hear from our colleagues across the aisle is that they 
think that we are dealing with people who are being forced to go over 
there. These people volunteered. These men and women are true American 
heroes, and they know what their mission is, and they will tell you 
they know they are accomplishing that mission. They wonder why what 
they are accomplishing is not what they are viewing on American 
television. They wonder that a lot, and they say that to you a lot when 
you go over there to visit them.

And so it has been said here tonight already, but I think it is very 
important that the American people think about this. The Democratic 
Party in this House and in the Senate is in the majority. They have a 
responsibility now to govern this Nation. They ran on a campaign that 
promised what they were going to do when they got here to govern this 
Nation. And as we heard in the early hour, we do have three distinctive 
parts of the government. The President is one, but this is a coequal 
branch of government with the authority to take charge and be 
responsible for what you promise. And if it means to the American 
people what they think it means to the American people, that we have to 
get out immediately of Iraq, they have the authority and the ability to 
vote to bring our troops home.

But you see, it is easy to talk about wanting the responsibility, but 
taking the responsibility becomes very difficult. In fact, the real 
story of this debate that we are having on what should happen is they 
don't want to take the responsibility because they really, I would 
hope, in their heart of hearts, realize that the consequences are 
dramatic.

My friend Congressman Pearce mentioned to you, and I think it is 
everybody's opinion that looks at that map of Iraq, that should the 
American troops strike their colors and march home tomorrow, that the 
southern part of Iraq falls almost immediately into the hands of the 
Iranians, because they fought a whole war over that issue; and only 
because the Iraqis stood up their Armed Forces and fought to a 
standstill that the Iranians didn't take those southern oil fields. But 
the Iraqi Army, which we are in the process of building up, would not 
be able to do that in today's life. They are too busy straightening out 
their own country.

We hear so much about the American soldier. And God bless the 
American soldier. The American troops are doing an outstanding job, but 
so are the Iraqi troops. And that is the news item that is not out 
there these days. The Iraqi troops are dying actually at much greater 
numbers than the American troops, side by side with the American 
soldier, learning as they go how to fight the kind of war that 
professional soldiers fight. And they are doing a good job. And we have 
to give them the opportunity to finish the job and stand up their 
military and stand up their police force.

And that is what our soldiers tell us when they go over there, and 
they tell


us that from the corporal or the private all the way up to the four-
star general.

And the surge has a purpose. It is more than just feeding in troops. 
It is clearing a neighborhood, and then having the Iraqi troops, along 
with Americans, to hold those neighborhoods until we are able to get 
this thing done.



And you know, al-Anbar Province, when I was over there the second 
time, that was the Wild West. That was the worst province in Iraq, al-
Anbar Province. Now the Marines report to us on a daily basis that 
because the sheiks who are the tribal leaders of that area, and 
particularly one sheik who's got the vast majority of the tribes in 
that area, have joined the fight, told their people, when you shoot at 
an American, you shoot at one of us; join us in getting rid of this al-
Qaeda that's trying to come in here and turn all sides against each 
other to create turmoil in our country. And we are having outstanding 
success in that area, because the indigenous population is joining in 
the fight.

When an Iraqi hears a pounding on his door and calls the local 
policeman, this war is won. But they have lived for a long time under a 
dictatorship where the local policeman was the bad guy. We have changed 
that.

Ask a soldier, what was your mission, and he will tell you, sir, 
we've accomplished a whole lot of our mission. Our first mission was to 
go in and take out Saddam Hussein, and, sir, we did that. And I'm proud 
to say that the 4th Infantry Division from Fort Hood, Texas, which is 
in my district, pulled that tyrant out of that hole and started him in 
a lawful judicial process established by a government that the 1st 
Cavalry Division, which is also from my district, helped to defend as 
they voted, and in a properly impaneled judicial process we took care 
of Saddam Hussein. That's part of our mission. Mission accomplished.

The second mission was to help rebuild the Iraqi people. And if you 
look at that map at the number of projects that we're working on 
currently, and then you have a young soldier say, you know, sir, they 
reported last week that they killed an American soldier, what they 
didn't report is that we got water for the first time almost in the 
history of this country to a village of 400 people that never had 
water, because that's not a big fancy news item for The New York Times 
and the Washington Post. But that is a very, very important news item 
for the 300 people who had to pack their water in small jugs to have 
drinking water, that we got water, drinkable water, usable water to 
those people in the desert community. This is the kind of thing that 
changes the future of Iraq. If we pull out of Iraq, we create disaster.

Now, as I pointed out, the Democrats have an opportunity to do what 
they promised everybody to do and stop this war, but they don't have 
the will, and they don't have the courage to be responsible for their 
actions. So instead, they have prevented necessary supplies to keep our 
men and women in combat safe now, for 100 and what days?