---
---

# None
## `d6fde545a6c49cc8045ab16572fe1ce4`
`Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin — 3 June 2008`

---


Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I certainly share the concerns 
of the proponents of this resolution regarding the need to bring peace 
to Lebanon. I also add my voice in opposition to the use of violence 
against innocent civilians for any reason. It is wrong. I have always 
condemned such acts and certainly want to express my condolences to 
those killed, injured, or otherwise affected by the recent fighting.

I have been to Lebanon. I have talked to Parliamentarians in that 
country about the needs of that country. I have also supported a series 
of resolutions since coming to Congress expressing strong support for 
restoring and respecting Lebanon's sovereignty, disarming militias, and 
allowing the Lebanese people and their representatives to direct the 
affairs of the country without outside influence from any quarter.

My concern with this resolution is that it does nothing to bring the 
fighting to an end or to achieve any of its goals that it intends to 
advance, especially in light of recent events. Instead of writing 
resolutions that make Congress feel good, at this time the U.S. should 
be supporting and cooperating with countries in the region working to 
actually bring an end to the violence and putting Lebanon on track to 
resolve the political paralysis that has gripped the country.

I did not vote for this measure because I believe it does not move us 
forward in helping to bring peace to the region, especially in light of 
recent events that saw the Arab League and Qatar in particular take 
leading roles in actively working diplomatically to end the violence. 
While this resolution was pending a vote before the House, the Lebanese 
parties including the Lebanese government and its Arab neighbors were 
hammering out an agreement to resolve the political crisis fueling the 
recent violence which has crippled the country.

I have included a copy of New York Times articles on these regional 
efforts well as another article outlining the announcement by Israel of 
its negotiations with Syria using Turkey as a mediator. Nothing 
guarantees that these talks will succeed but it certainly shows that 
some of the parties most affected by violence in the region are tired 
of empty rhetoric and are willing to sit down and engage in diplomacy 
to prevent there country from returning to civil war.

Now is an opportunity to encourage the Lebanese and others in the 
region to build on these efforts to defuse tensions and begin to take a 
positive way forward. According to the reports, the Lebanon agreement 
was reached--not because of the Congressional resolution--but because 
the Lebanese parties, with the help of their neighbors in the region, 
sat down at the negotiating table to try and save their country from 
civil war.

According to these reports, the agreement addresses some of the 
issues that have polarized and paralyzed Lebanon and also makes clear 
that all parties ''commit themselves not to use weapons or violence in 
order to achieve political gains under any circumstances.''

While the agreement is not perfect and it remains to be seen whether 
it will change the situation on the ground, it has received the 
endorsement of all parties, Saudi Arabia, the U.N, and even the Bush 
Administration. The agreement will not resolve all the pressing 
problems in Lebanon but it helped check the most pressing of the 
moment: a slow march back to civil war.

While many Lebanese were expressing relief at this news and returning 
to deserted streets in Beirut, the House was voting on a resolution 
which had been eclipsed by events


on the ground. Rather than amending the resolution to reflect new 
developments in the region and to support diplomatic to put an end to 
the violence, the only option presented to the House was a vote on a 
resolution that proposed no new solutions. Given the opportunity to 
vote on an amended resolution supporting the work of regional actors 
and the Lebanese government to find a solution, I would have gladly 
joined my colleagues.

Because of the diplomatic intervention by Qatar and others, we now 
have a ''ceasefire'' and a possible way out of the cycle of violence 
that has torn this nation apart.

The U.S. should continue to support the democratically elected 
government of Prime Minister Fouad Siniora and can do so by supporting 
diplomatic efforts by all parties to end the political crisis 
underlying the violence.

The head of Lebanon's U.S.-backed Army is Michel Suleiman--who 
oversaw the Army's deployment in the south under the U.N. resolution 
which halted the Hezbollah-Israel war in 2006. Suleiman, who will 
become the country's President under the agreement, recently stated 
that ''I cannot save the country alone. This mission requires the 
efforts of all.'' I hope rather than passing outdated resolutions, the 
Administration and Congress will rally along with others to provide the 
diplomatic and other support needed by President Suleiman and the 
Lebanese people to make the most of this opportunity.

Now Lebanon has another chance to repair itself. Let's not waste it.









[From the New York Times, May 22, 2008]










Israel Holds Peace Talks With Syria














 (By Ethan Bronner)




 Jerusalem.--Israel and Syria announced on Wednesday that 


 they were engaged in negotiations for a comprehensive peace 


 treaty through Turkish mediators, a sign that Israel is 


 hoping to halt the growing influence of Iran, Syria's most 


 important ally, which sponsors the anti-Israel groups 


 Hezbollah and Hamas.



 Senior Israeli officials from Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's 


 office and their Syrian counterparts were in Istanbul on 


 Wednesday, where both groups had been staying separately, at 


 undisclosed locations, since Monday. The mediators shuttled 


 between the two. Syria and Israel have not negotiated this 


 seriously in eight years.



 Syria's motives are clear: it wants to regain the Golan 


 Heights, captured by Israel in the 1967 war, and to re-


 establish a relationship with the United States, something it 


 figures it can do through talks with Jerusalem.



 For Israel--which has watched the Palestinian group Hamas 


 take over Gaza and gain ground in the West Bank, and the 


 Lebanese group Hezbollah display raw power in Beirut--an 


 effort to pull Syria away from Iran could produce enormous 


 benefits. An announcement on Wednesday of a peace deal that 


 gives Hezbollah the upper hand in Lebanon's government 


 probably added to Israel's sense of urgency.



 The American government opposed Israeli-Syrian negotiations 


 because they feared that such a negotiation would reward 


 Syria at a time when the United States is seeking to isolate 


 it for its backing of Hezbollah and its meddling in Lebanon, 


 Bush administration and Israeli officials said. The United 


 States yielded when it became clear that Israel was 


 determined to go ahead, they said.



 The talks come less than a week after President Bush, 


 speaking to the Israeli Parliament, created a stir by 


 criticizing those who would negotiate with ''terrorists and 


 radicals.'' Mr. Bush's remarks have become an issue in the 


 American presidential campaign because they were widely 


 perceived as a rebuke to Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic 


 front-runner.



 Turkey, a Muslim country and member of NATO, is a close 


 ally of the United States. It is also Syria's neighbor and 


 has an interest in securing regional peace.



 The Turkish prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has been 


 working on convening negotiations for some time, an official 


 in his office said, including holding phone conversations 


 with leaders on both sides, and assigning a special envoy to 


 handle the diplomatic back-and-forth. The fact that messages 


 were being exchanged has been public for a couple of months, 


 because of official Syrian statements.



 The senior Israeli official said that shortly after Mr. 


 Olmert became prime minister more than a year ago, he went to 


 Turkey and held a long one-on-one meeting with Mr. Erdogan in 


 which it was decided that Turkey would mediate between Israel 


 and Syria.



 Efforts to sign a treaty with Syria have often competed 


 with those to build a comprehensive peace with the 


 Palestinians. On Wednesday, Israeli officials tried to make 


 clear that they were not seeking to upstage an important 


 conference opening in Bethlehem--an attempt to make stability 


 easier in the West Bank through economic investment--by 


 saying that both tracks remained vital to them.



 While Wednesday's announcement indicated the first real 


 progress on the Israeli-Syrian front in years, and while both 


 sides have clear goals and motivation for success, there is 


 equally good reason for skepticism about the possibility of 


 success.



 Mr. Olmert is politically weak, with a thin parliamentary 


 majority partly dependent on the right-wing religious Shas 


 party. He faces a criminal investigation that many Israelis 


 believe should lead him to step down or refrain from 


 undertaking negotiations with the country's enemies. 


 Moreover, twice before, under Prime Ministers Yitzhak Rabin 


 and Ehud Barak, similar efforts to sign a deal with Syria 


 failed.



 In Israel, two-thirds of the public oppose a return of the 


 Golan Heights to Syria, according to numerous opinion polls, 


 and many strategists and generals have said that giving up 


 the strategic advantage of the Heights in exchange for 


 promises or even written treaties makes no sense.



 ''In a period in which Iran is on the march and extending 


 its influence from Lebanon to Iraq, for Israel to consider 


 giving up the Golan barrier would be a strategic error of the 


 highest order,'' said Dore Gold, president of the Jerusalem 


 Center for Public Affairs and a former official and adviser 


 to conservative governments under the Likud Party, which is 


 now the opposition.



 ''You have to make a cold assessment whether Israel could 


 drive a wedge between Syria and Iran,'' Mr. Gold said. 


 ''Unfortunately, in the present period, Iran has Syria within 


 its grip to a far greater extent than it did in the 1990s 


 when previous negotiations with the Syrians were held.''



 On the other hand, many other Israeli officials and 


 analysts see great benefits for Israel. Syria is a prime 


 sponsor of Hezbollah and provides it with rockets and arms, 


 many from Iran. Hamas and Islamic Jihad have headquarters in 


 Damascus, and Israel will seek, in these negotiations, to 


 have them closed.



 To pull Syria out of the orbit of Iran and return it to the 


 more pro-Western world of Egypt, Jordan and even Saudi Arabia 


 would be a major victory for Israel.



 A real peace treaty with Syria would bring Israel 


 significant advantages in Lebanon and the Palestinian 


 territories.



 After the midday announcement here of the existence of the 


 talks, the Israeli airwaves were filled with officials of the 


 right and center expressing skepticism about the outcome and 


 saying that Israel should not leave the Golan Heights. 


 Politicians of the left, though, expressed hope.



 Ran Cohen, a member of Parliament from the dovish Meretz 


 Party, told Israel Radio: ''I think this move is very 


 important, very positive. It's too bad it did not begin a 


 long time ago.''



 Others said they feared that the announcement was an 


 attempt to divert attention from Mr. Olmert's legal troubles.



 ''I very much welcome any process that can advance peace 


 between us and our neighbors, first and foremost with 


 Syria,'' said Eitan Kabel, secretary general of the Labor 


 Party, which is in the government with Mr. Olmert's Kadima 


 Party. ''I very much hope this isn't some sort of spin whose 


 goal is pull a screen over the situation that the prime 


 minister is in.''



 In the past, the sticking point in negotiations has been 


 whether yielding the Golan to the Syrians gave them 


 sovereignty all the way to the waterline of the Sea of 


 Galilee. The Syrians say yes, but the Israelis have said no, 


 fearing the loss of water rights and full access to the lake.