# COLLEGE STUDENT RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `d6fff55b5bfde6fb5285c96939c2dd83`
`Mr. LEWIS of Georgia — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I just want to take a moment, 
just one moment, to thank Chairman Miller on behalf of hundreds and 
thousands of students attending the eight colleges and universities in 
my district for bringing this legislation to the floor. They will be 
more than grateful to you forever for bringing this legislation to the 
floor, and I want to thank you, Chairman Miller.

Madam Speaker, for too long the doors to our colleges and 
universities have been closed to too many of our young people. Too many 
of our best and brightest cannot afford to go to college, and those who 
do are buried under a mountain of debt when they graduate. Today we can 
ease that burden. Today we can make colleges and


universities more affordable by passing H.R. 5. The best and brightest 
American minds, rich and poor, all of our children, must have access to 
higher education. Our young people will be competing with young people 
from around the world, not just on this little piece of real estate we 
call America, but from around the world, and they must have every 
opportunity to succeed. I am the first person in my family to finish 
high school, to go to college.



I worked in a kitchen washing dishes, pots and pans, serving food, 
working as a janitor. That is how I made it through school. But today, 
hundreds of thousands of our young people cannot make it because of the 
debt, because of the high cost of student loans. American students 
should never, never be turned away from college because they cannot 
afford it.

It is unacceptable, it is a shame, it is a disgrace that our country 
is willing to spend millions and billions of dollars to fight a war in 
Iraq that we know is a mistake, while the doors to our colleges and 
universities are closed to too many of our young people.

Vote ''yes'' on H.R. 5, vote for America's future. Vote for our young 
people.