# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d7052d6221c3bf3d0704a6811d391329`
`Mr. GINGREY — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this rule and 
the underlying legislation.

We are about to begin 3 days of debate over the Democrats' nonbinding 
resolution, 3 days of debate over a resolution that is nothing more 
than a political statement against our President.

Considering that last month Democrats rammed six bills through this 
House in a mere 100 hours, I would say we have ample time this week to 
also debate a Republican alternative to this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, as you well know, last week one of the Democratic 
Members in this body repeatedly referred to us as the ''Republic 
Party.'' I don't think, Mr. Speaker, that that Member was necessarily 
trying to pay us a compliment. But indeed he did, because this is a 
Republic, and we speak on behalf of 650,000 constituents.

But the Democrats have taken that away from us, Mr. Speaker. The 
Democratic leadership has shown us time and time again their pledge of 
an open and inclusive Congress amounts to nothing more than tired 
campaign rhetoric. So over and over the next 3 days, you will hear many 
Republican opinions and ideas, but you will see no Republican 
legislation.

Perhaps the Democratic leadership is afraid that a Republican 
alternative, like the bill introduced by a true American war hero, Sam 
Johnson of Texas, would force the Members to finally put their money 
where their mouths are and vote ''yes'' or ''no'' to cut funding for 
the troops. But instead, Mr. Speaker, the Democrats prefer to debate 
nonbinding resolutions that criticize the President's plan without 
offering any alternative or strategy for victory.

Mr. Speaker, we should be using the next 3 days to debate substantive 
legislation, not political attacks. This nonbinding resolution may have 
been crafted with the 2008 election in mind, but I implore my 
colleagues to look far beyond 2008 to the future of our Nation and this 
global war on terror. Don't play politics with the security of the 
United States of America. Don't play politics with possibly our last 
best chance to secure freedom for the Iraqi people on the greater 
stability in the Middle East.

Mr. Speaker, the Democrats have sometimes accused Republicans in this 
Congress of being ''yes men'' for the President. Well, I believe the 
Democrats are being ''no men'' for the President, blindly saying no to 
any plan he proposes, without considering the merits or what is best 
for the security of this Nation.



Mr. Speaker, it is absolutely unbelievable that the Democrats are 
proposing 3 days of debate on an issue as critically important as Iraq 
without any Republican input or alternative. The manner in which this 
debate will be carried out is an affront to the American people and to 
our troops. I ask my colleagues to join me in opposition to this 
shameful rule.