---
---

# None
## `d7104db6aa767808667a87d3c388d784`
`Mr. STEARNS — 26 July 2010`

---


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Let me also, at this point, thank Mr. Markey for his eloquent 
remarks. But also, he is steadfast in pushing this bill. He has been 
working on this bill for almost 4 years.

Oftentimes, when you come to the floor on a suspension like this, 
many Members do not realize the amount of work that goes into a bill 
like this. And I know the ranking member before Mr. Markey had talked 
to us about the possibility of this 2 years ago, 3 years ago, 4 years 
ago, so I'm glad it's culminated as it is today, 20 years after the 
anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act.

And obviously, I'd also like to compliment the gentleman from Rhode 
Island for being in the chair. It's altogether appropriate, historic 
and important.



I think many of us have come out of the House floor and walked into 
the halls of Congress and saw veterans in wheelchairs. We've seen men 
and women without legs. We've seen men and women without arms, hands, 
some of them practically blind. Shouldn't they have the opportunity to 
come back from Afghanistan and Iraq and have the full benefits of the 
electronic media? Before this bill passed, they might not have had the 
complete opportunity, but now, with this bill they will.

So I rise in strong support of H.R. 3101, the Twenty-First Century 
Communications and Video Accessibility Act. We know there's all kinds 
of new devices coming on. Mr. Markey mentioned the iPad.

And as I mentioned, it's important that people with disabilities are 
not left behind, have access and are afforded the opportunity to enjoy 
this wide variety of technology. And in many cases, through the 
Internet it's going to be life saving, through tele-medicine and from 
other ways that we can help the handicapped, the people that are at 
home through emergency calls, and, ultimately, the D spectrum, when we 
have that kind of spectrum set aside just for safety and security.

Whenever you do a bill like this, it gets complicated, because lots 
of people want to use a lot of mandates for the United States 
Government to mandate through the FCC. But I think, as Mr. Markey 
pointed out with the iPad, oftentimes industry can come to the front 
and voluntarily do it.

We, in the United States Congress, if we mandate certain 
technologies, we attempt to pick winners or losers. The best approach 
to ensuring accessibility is to establish accessibility goals, but not 
dictate how to accomplish them. We need to encourage innovation to 
flourish and, my colleagues, this bill does that.

Now, obviously, all legislation we bring up here is not perfect, and 
this bill, obviously, needs some additional improvements. Perhaps the 
FCC can do that. Nevertheless, I think, as Mr. Markey pointed out, 
through the bipartisan process we have had here, Republicans and 
Democrats, we achieved a consensus, which is not altogether an everyday 
occurrence here in Congress.

So I think, in many ways, we can compliment ourselves, both as 
Democrats and Republicans, that we came together on a very important 
issue which affects a huge number of manufacturing companies in this 
United States and throughout the world. We came together in a 
consensus.

And, of course, I would like to thank Chairman Waxman for doing this, 
Subcommittee Chairman Boucher from Virginia, Joe Barton, the ranking 
member from Texas, and my staff, particularly Neil, who worked with the 
Democrat staff to bring this consensus together. A collaboration of 
this kind doesn't often happen in such a short amount of time.

My main concern was that the legislation was extremely broad in its 
original scope, and included unnecessary mandates. Changes that were 
adopted at the committee markup addressed many of my concerns. Language 
was added that explicitly states that the relevant section shall not be 
construed to require every feature and every function of every device 
or service to be accessible for every disability.

So that the record is clear regarding the intentions that underlie 
this bill, I want to offer some guidance to the FCC regarding the way 
it should view several key provisions in this legislation.

First, my colleagues, the bill creates a new achievable standard to 
guide manufacturers' and service providers' efforts to provide 
accessibility to the disabled. Under section 255 of the Communications 
Act, telecommunications services and equipment must be accessible if 
the provision of accessibility is ''readily achievable.''

As introduced, H.R. 3101 proposed moving to a significantly higher 
standard under which accessibility would be required unless it imposed 
an ''undue burden.'' The ''achievable'' standard we adopt today is a 
compromise, a very simple compromise, very important compromise, 
between these two positions.

The committee also recognized that it is not necessary for a 
manufacturer or service provider to make every piece of equipment or 
service accessible, if it offers or directs such person to functionally 
equivalent accessible alternatives to the equipment or service in 
question. This was a source of concern and confusion by many Members, 
and contention, early in the legislative process. And I'm pleased that 
this bill we are considering today resolves this issue by adopting 
clarifying language that makes this point in a clear and unambiguous 
manner.

Finally, my colleagues, the bill before us also recognizes that 
advanced communication services and applications may be offered by 
third parties, and that manufacturers and network operators should not 
be held responsible for ensuring these third party advanced 
communication services comply with the act.

Thus, section 2 makes clear that no person is liable for a violation 
of this Act to the extent that such person transmits, routes or 
provides intermediate or transient storage for content or 
communications, or provides an information location tool used to obtain 
access to content or information. These are the details that make for a 
sound bill.

As I said previously, this legislation is not perfect, but it is 
much, much improved due to the hard work of industry and the disability 
community who came together, and the staff on both sides of the aisle. 
This legislation, Mr. Speaker, goes a long, long way to ensuring that 
people with disabilities can utilize all the new and exciting products, 
services and applications in the years ahead. I urge its passage.

And for those veterans coming home, this will ensure that you have 
access to those new financial programs, those new video devices, those 
new devices that are going to make your life a lot easier.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.