---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `d7126e6ca0d826b07e772d0a26b1ce86`
`Mr. ROSS — 8 July 2008`

---


Mr. ROSS. I'd like to thank the gentleman from Utah for leading this 
discussion this evening on energy.

As the gentleman mentioned, I'm fortunate to serve on the House 
Energy and Commerce Committee and on the Energy and Air Quality 
Subcommittee. Through my work there, I've been working on ways to 
reduce our dependence on foreign oil and to address this energy crisis 
facing America and, quite frankly, facing the world, and I think there 
are several ways to do it.

There is no silver bullet. It's going to take a multifaceted 
approach. As Congress, we can't control the demand for oil in the 
world, but as a Congress, we can make an impact on the supply, and 
that's what I believe that this Congress needs to do.

Here is what we do know: In the next 8 years, there will be 100 
million new cars on the road, 100 million new cars on the road in the 
next 8 years, not here but in China and in India.

Here is the other thing we know: If we do not change our current 
energy policy in this country, sometime in the next 12 to 20 years, 
depending on whose numbers you want to believe, we will go from being 
60 percent dependent on foreign oil to being 100 percent dependent on 
foreign oil.

I've got a plan that, I believe, can go a long way toward fixing 
that. While we have a gasoline crisis today, in the next 35 years, it 
will be an electricity crisis. I've got a bill, H.R. 5437. It's called 
the American-Made Energy Act. It's 155 pages long. It's a multifaceted 
bill that takes a multifaceted approach to this energy crisis. Again, 
there is no silver bullet. Quite simply, my bill does this:

I propose that we drill in ANWR. There are 19 million acres in ANWR. 
My bill proposes to drill on 2,000 of them--one-sixth the size of the 
Dulles Airport. We've already got a pipeline going to Alaska, to ANWR, 
that can handle 2 million barrels a day; we're only putting 1 million 
in it. Let's fill it up and put the other 1 million barrels in it.

Additionally, we can drill off the coast. In fact, it was by 
executive order that Bush One chose to shut down drilling near the 
coast of Florida. That was a mistake. They're drilling much closer to 
the coast in Alabama than they are in Florida today because of an 
executive order issued by former President Bush, often referred to as 
Bush 41, I believe.

So this is not a Democrat or a Republican problem. I think both 
parties, quite frankly, have some blame to share here, but we don't 
have a Democratic energy problem or a Republican energy problem; we've 
got an American energy problem, and we need to fix it as a Congress. I 
think it would be most helpful if we did it, quite frankly, in a 
bipartisan way.

I'm not talking about drilling off the coast or in ANWR and utilizing 
1940 or 1950 technology, not even utilizing 1990 technology. I'm 
talking about doing it while utilizing 21st century technology that can 
allow us to do it, to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and yet 
remain good stewards of this environment, of this land that God has 
given us to care after.

Then there are the lease and royalty payments from drilling in those 
areas. By drilling in those areas, we meet our short-term oil needs. 
We've got some great ideas. I've actually test-driven a hydrogen fuel 
cell car. You can drive it. It sounds like an electric golf cart, and 
it runs like a regular car, and when you stop, if you jump out and run 
to the tailpipe with a clean glass, in time, it'll pour you a half a 
cup of water. They tell me you can drink it. I didn't try, Madam 
Speaker, but they say you can.


I mean these are not Star Wars-ish ideas. These are not ideas of the 
next century or of the next generation. They're here, but we need an 
energy policy that embraces them and that moves them from the science 
lab to every street corner in America where you see a gas pump today.

So my bill does this: It says drill in ANWR, utilizing new 
environmental technology. Drill off the coast, utilizing new 
environmental technology. Then the revenue from the lease and royalty 
payments, it's estimated, will total $80 billion. I want to take that 
$80 billion and put every dime of it into alternative and renewable 
fuels to move these ideas from the science lab to the marketplace.

This year, this administration will spend less than $4 billion on 
alternative and renewable fuels. Now, for a country boy from Hope, 
Arkansas, $4 billion sounds like a lot of money, but to put it in 
perspective, we will spend that amount in Iraq in the next 10 days. 
Bill Gates will spend twice that amount on research and development for 
Microsoft Corporation alone this year. When President Kennedy said he 
was going to put a man on the Moon, he didn't just say it; we invested 
in it. In today's dollars, it was $90 billion, and we did so much more 
than put a man on the Moon. We grew a new generation of innovators in 
this country


who have created and who have invented a lot of the technologies that 
we're now beginning to take for granted.

It's time for another President Kennedy ''let's go to the Moon''-
sized investment and, this time, with alternative and renewable fuels 
so we can reduce our dependence on foreign oil. That's exactly what I 
try to accomplish with the American-Made Energy Act, H.R. 5437.

I'd like to thank the gentleman from Utah for allowing me to come and 
to speak on my bill for a few minutes this evening, and I appreciate 
his leadership on these energy issues.

With that, I yield back to him.