---
---

# ESTABLISHING AN OMBUDSMAN WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
## `d71c92714f44e5a2533296ac45557109`
`Mr. HARE — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. HARE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I am glad my colleagues and I on both sides of the aisle 
were able to work together to craft this important piece of 
legislation. I would like to thank the Subcommittee on Health Chairman, 
Mike Michaud of Maine, and Ranking Member Jeff Miller for the 
bipartisan leadership they demonstrated in working on this important 
bill.

Over 30,000 servicemembers have been wounded in Operation Enduring 
Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. Many of these servicemembers suffer from 
multiple serious injuries that will require long-term care, spanning 
beyond their discharge and into the care they receive from the VA.

In 2007, reports from the Independent Review Group, the President's 
Task Force on Returning Global War on Terror Heroes, and the 
President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded 
Warriors, all highlighted the need to improve case management for 
servicemembers and veterans in the military health system and in the 
VA. In response, the VA instituted a number of initiatives to support 
veterans and their families. These measures include appointing patient 
advocates in every medical center for OEF and OIF coordinators and 
transition patient advocates for those seriously injured in combat.

The Joint Federal Recovery Coordinator Program was also established 
to serve as a single point of contact for seriously wounded and ill 
servicemembers, veterans and their families. However, the scope of the 
FRCP is very


limited. As of June 1, 2008, there were only eight recovery 
coordinators working with 80 patients. Less seriously wounded veterans 
do not have access to the FRCP. Instead, they must attempt to navigate 
the complex system using medical centers, patient advocates, benefit 
counselors, OEF and OIF coordinators, transition patient advocates and 
vet center counselors.

H.R. 2192, as amended, would create the Office of the Ombudsman 
within the VA to oversee patient advocacy work and coordinate 
assistance for our Nation's veterans. The office would be tasked with 
identifying trends across the system in patient issues and complaints 
that would allow improvements to VA policies, practices and procedures. 
The office would also serve as the arbiter of last resort for 
complaints and issues that cannot be resolved at local or regional 
levels.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support H.R. 2912.

I reserve the balance of my time.