---
---

# VETERANS' HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `d721e232223f1178d4544c232ea4dafd`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2874, The 
Veterans' Health Care Improvement Act of 2007. I would also like to 
take this opportunity to recognize our chairman, Bob Filner, for his 
leadership on this issue, and I want to personally thank him for what's 
accomplished on a variety of issues regarding veterans.

I also want to acknowledge my friend, Congressman Miller, for his 
efforts also on this particular bill.

This is an important piece of legislation and the nearly 60,000 
veterans in my mostly rural district will certainly benefit from this 
particular bill.

Earlier this year, I sponsored H.R. 2689, a bill that improves mental 
health services for Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi 
Freedom veterans. This bill would establish a program for peer-to-peer 
outreach and counseling for veterans. Many experts believe this method 
is critical for getting veterans in need of services into the VA 
system.

Additionally, under H.R. 2689, the VA would be required to look 
beyond its current services to ensure that veterans have access to the 
services that they need by embracing the expertise available in our 
communities and contract out to qualified providers such as community 
mental health centers who have been providing quality mental health 
services for families for many years.

Under the leadership of the chairman, my bill was incorporated into 
this bill, and I want to personally thank him.

Also included in this bill are provisions critical to veterans, as 
our Speaker today understands, in Texas, such as the transportation 
grants for rural veterans service organizations. In some parts of my 
district and throughout this country, veterans have to drive long hours 
to get access to services. This bill allows an opportunity for us to 
provide some needed assistance and services in this specific area.

I also want to acknowledge that this bill also has language that 
deals with Project SHAD, a bill that was extremely important to begin 
to identify those thousands of soldiers that we also used weapons such 
as nerve gas and other types of testing on, that we did on our own 
soldiers that allows an opportunity for them to continue to get 
service.

And other members of this committee, I want to personally thank them 
for their efforts. Once again, I want to take this opportunity to thank 
the chairman for his leadership.