---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS ACT
## `d7272b0f9de7c5d5f39989f25c5428a0`
`Mr. SESTAK — 30 October 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this bill for two 
goods that are within it. The first has to do with our servicemembers, 
those that have become disabled because of their service. This bill, 
for the first time, gives priority, even if it's just one company that 
is veteran-owned and has the service-disabled owning that company, even 
if there are other competitors. I think this is extremely important, 
particularly in this time of war in Iraq and Afghanistan.



I say that because in World War II, on average, our soldiers had 182 
days of combat. In between horrific battles of Guadalcanal, Iwo Jima or 
the Battle of the Bulge, there was dwell time in which our 
servicemembers had time to rest before the next onslaught.

In the war in Iraq, our servicemembers go outside the wire every day 
into combat for 15 months. We are seeing a higher rate of post-
traumatic stress disorder coming back than we have seen in any war. 
Some say over 30 percent. That will feed into our society.

So that this bill addresses the fact that our society owes something 
to those who wear the cloth of this Nation, particularly in such a 
challenging war, I speak up in support of it.

The second is women business owners. The fact that the goal has been 
for years that 5 percent of all Federal contracts will go to women 
business owners, we have only met the goal of 3.4 percent. I believe 
this bill goes a large step towards helping those, particularly the 
economically disenfranchised, to be able to have industries that are 
underrepresented, to now have the competition remain with women 
business owners. And if they are substantially underrepresented, it can 
then open up to those women business owners who are not economically 
disadvantaged. So I speak up in support of this bill both for veterans 
and for women.