---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d728b29c22c79499c1ef2ced8e4a8e2b`
`Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman.

Mr. Speaker, before I begin my comments, I must admit that it seems 
that our friends from across the aisle have forgotten what the subject 
of this debate remains. I was under the impression that we were here to 
debate a resolution opposing the President's so-called surge plan. Yet 
I keep hearing commentary that appears to be designed to distract the 
American public from the real reason that we are gathered for a 
conversation on our future involvement in Iraq.

Let it be known, Mr. Speaker, that when it comes time to vote, Hank 
Johnson will be voting in favor of House Concurrent Resolution 63.

Now, ''help is on the way.'' Those were the watchwords of a former 
Presidential campaign 7 years ago. Yet here we are, neck deep into the 
second term of the Bush-Cheney administration. And when one considers 
the current state of our military's readiness, our proud military's 
readiness, one has to wonder, where has the help gone? Where is the 
help?



If this was the help that was promised us 7 years ago, at the current 
state of our readiness, I would be reluctant to see what not helping 
our fine military men and women would mean.

I must point out that I, along with each of my colleagues in this 
distinguished body, do support our troops. But the issue at hand is 
whether, unlike campaign promises of the past, we intend to back our 
rhetoric with action.

We are now engaged in a debate about committing more troops to what 
can only be described as an ill-conceived, poorly planned, and 
misguided attempt to bring some sort of stability to a region that has 
suffered terribly since the President first decided to go it alone and 
make his stamp upon history, for better or worse.

Although I must admit, it has even become difficult to remember the 
exact reason the President used to justify his decision to take us to 
war in Iraq; but allow me to briefly summarize for you the reasons that 
the President has given the American public in his attempt to justify 
his decision to go to war.

Number 1, weapons of mass destruction. There were none. Number 2, the 
nuclear threat. There was none. Number 3, links to al Qaeda. There were 
none. And yet now, when we debate the wisdom of sending more than 
20,000 young men and women into battle in this so-called surge, we are 
expected to trust an administration which has been so consistently 
wrong. It is difficult to remember that we are in Iraq fighting for a 
war whose justification has not yet been justified at all.

So at this point, when we look at the state of the readiness of our 
military, it has been called into question. Recruiting, the Army has 
failed to achieve its recruitment goals by 17.8 percent in 2006, and 
moreover, recruitment quality has suffered. The percentage of Army 
recruits with high school diplomas has declined. The above-average 
middle category test scores of our recruits have declined, and the 
number of recruits scoring in the lowest acceptable middle category has 
increased. Our retention rates are soft.

We have got over 3,000 killed in Iraq, 20,000-plus wounded; meanwhile 
we are having problems with our equipment shortfalls, which are glaring 
in the combat theater, and also for our nondeployed personnel who are 
in the process of training to be deployed to Iraq and who cannot be 
properly trained without adequate equipment.

Then we have got the issue of multiple deployments, people having 
been deployed three and even four times to the theater, but yet this 
President proposes to send an additional 22,000 troops, plus support 
personnel, into this civil war in Iraq, where we are simply sitting 
ducks and falling victim to ever more sophisticated improvised 
explosive devices, i.e., roadside bombs.

This killing is continuing at exorbitant rates, and so this is what 
we are here to talk about with this resolution. It is important for the 
American public to know that we support our military. We definitely 
want to see them do the job that they must do. However, this troop 
surge is wrong. Two wrongs do not make a right.