---
---

# FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `d72b9bc05280e83151f2458bb9d5003f`
`Mr. KANJORSKI — 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. KANJORSKI. Mr. Chairman, I would like to extend my 
congratulations to Chairman Frank and to Ranking Member Bachus, two 
individuals that may sound more in disagreement today than they really 
are.

I want to talk about, particularly, the passage of this bill, and let 
us understand that since March of 2000, we have had hearings and have 
attempted to get to a new regulator for the government-sponsored 
enterprises of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and ultimately the Federal 
Home Loan Banks. We came very close 2 years ago. We passed it through 
this House. It didn't make it through the other body. We have an 
opportunity in this Congress to accomplish that.

As a matter of fact, one of the compliments to Mr. Frank is he didn't 
run out there wholesale and create all kinds of new gadgets in this 
bill. Basically, this bill is 99.44 of 100 percent the same as we did 
in 2005.

What will it accomplish? It is going to get us a world-class 
independent regulator, as the ranking member said, for $4.9 trillion 
worth of securities. I think that is important.

Here the major opposition that is being discussed is really 
philosophical in nature. I think Maxine Waters was very correct in that 
analysis. We are arguing over $500 million a year, and we are talking 
about an institution that has $4.9 trillion that we have to regulate, 
and know that in the last several years, there were errors and mistakes 
and potentially even fraud committed in these organizations as a result 
of the weakness of our regulators.

So we went to great lengths in a bipartisan way to have these 
hearings over the last 7 years and to say, let's create a regulator 
that we can all be proud of. But more than being proud of, that we can 
be relatively certain that the securities market and the investments of 
the United States in the real estate area are going to be safe and 
secure, and I think this bill does that.

Now this little argument that we have over the trust fund, $500 
million a year potentially, if you think about it, it amounts to about 
a day and a half of what we spend in Iraq every damn day. A day and a 
half.

Now you can argue that we don't need any housing in the United 
States, and I think you can credibly make that argument if you are of 
that philosophical bent. And of course, on this side of the aisle, 
because we probably are closer to the people who do need that housing, 
we can make the argument that there is need. But never in anybody's 
mind should an argument of that minute an amount stop the passage of 
legislation which will allow us to get control and containment over 
$4.9 trillion of American taxpayer money.