# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `d738ea38fed034e72000e759cfca1dd0`
`Mr. McCAIN — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I certainly appreciate the passion of 
the Senator from California and her concern for the men and women 
serving in the military and those who have sacrificed a great deal 
already. The fact is, according to Lee Hamilton and Henry Kissinger, 
General Zinni, and according to literally almost every--not all--
respected national security expert in this country, it is acknowledged 
that we will have a lot more casualties.



The Senator's concern is emotional and well-founded and very moving. 
I am also moved by the fact that Henry Kissinger and Lee Hamilton say 
Congress should drop fixed deadlines for the withdrawal of U.S. forces. 
As Commander in Chief, the President needs flexibility on troop 
withdrawals. He will accept no bill that has a timeline or a fixed date 
for withdrawal. Lee Hamilton says:




 The American people have the war in Iraq figured out. They 


 know American troops cannot settle Iraq's sectarian conflict, 


 and they want to withdraw responsibly. They do not want a 


 messy or sudden withdrawal to prompt wider sectarian strife 


 and an escalating humanitarian disaster.


To some degree, I have seen this movie before. I remember when the 
debate was going on on the floor of the Senate on our withdrawal from 
Cambodia on December 15, 1970. Mr. Gravel, now one of the candidates 
for President of the United States, said:




 We come back to the argument of protecting American forces. 


 It is simple. Take the forces out and we do not have any 


 problem. It is simple. Do not get into Cambodia. Do not get 


 involved. Then we do not get into anything.


Yes, there was an argument on the floor of the Senate about 
withdrawal. There was an argument that prohibited the United States 
from being involved in Cambodia. Three million people were 
slaughtered--one of the great acts of genocide in modern history. Yes, 
we cared about American casualties after Vietnam and we withdrew. The 
North Vietnamese attacked and millions of people got on boats, 
thousands were killed in reeducation camps, and thousands were 
executed. I have seen this movie before. I have seen this movie before 
from the liberal left in America, who share no responsibility for what 
happened in Cambodia when we said, no, as I quote Senator Gravel:




 We come back to the argument of protecting American forces. 


 It is simple. Take the forces out and we do not have any 


 problem. It is simple. Do not get into Cambodia. Do not get 


 involved. Then we do not get into anything.
