---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `d74ade3e107f654d50c365d83d4b0b5a`
`Mr. SAXTON — 16 January 2008`

---


Mr. SAXTON. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to very sincerely thank my good friend 
from Missouri for his leadership in bringing this revised edition of 
the National Defense Authorization Act to the floor in an expedited 
manner. It's unfortunate that we find ourselves in this position, but 
through Mr. Skelton and Mr. Hunter's leadership, we were able to find a 
mutually agreeable compromise in an expeditious manner.

On December 12, the House passed the National Defense Authorization 
Act, as my good friend just pointed out, by a vote of 370-49. This 
amended version is a good bipartisan bill, with very few changes from 
the original legislation. In section 1083, we ensure terrorism victims 
have the legal redress against state sponsors of terrorism, while 
granting the President the waiver authority to protect our relationship 
with the new government of Iraq. This provision was the crux of the 
issue that brought this bill back to the House after we sent it to the 
President, and it's something that is near and dear to many of our 
hearts, and some of us worked very closely with Members of the other 
body, in particular Senator Lautenberg, over several years to bring the 
language that we had in the original bill to the attention of the House 
and inclusion in the NDAA bill.

The new version simply gives the President the ability to waive the 
totality of this pertinent section as to claims against Iraq for 
terrorism acts that occurred before or on the date of enactment of the 
fiscal year 2008 NDAA bill. As my good friend, Mr. Skelton, just 
pointed out, this is perhaps a better way to write this because 
certainly we can't or shouldn't hold the current government of Iraq 
responsible for things done by its predecessor, Saddam Hussein. And so 
this is a good compromise and a good effort. We also make some other 
provisions. We make the 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise and 
targeted pay raises retroactive to ensure American servicemembers are 
not penalized due to this delay.

Overall, the defense bill takes care of the brave men and women 
serving our country at home and abroad. It authorizes $506.9 billion in 
budget authority for the Department of Defense and the national 
security programs of the Department of Energy. Additionally, it 
supports current operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere in the 
global war on terrorism by authorizing $189.4 billion in supplemental 
funding for operational costs, personnel expenses, and procurement of 
new equipment for fiscal year 2008.

Once again, I want to acknowledge the leadership of Chairman Ike 
Skelton and Ranking Member Duncan Hunter for their hard work in 
shepherding this vital legislation expeditiously through their chamber. 
Through their work, this bill guarantees that our service men and women 
will get what they need, and when they need it.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.