# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `d74d6e12a74d95fc512eaf39734348c2`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 23 October 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I too rise to discuss the nomination 
of Judge Leslie Southwick and to explain why I will vote in favor of 
cloture and in favor of confirming him to the Fifth Circuit Court of 
Appeals.



There has seldom been an appellate nominee to whom I have given more 
thought than I have given to Judge Southwick. I am very much aware of 
the concerns many on my side of the aisle, in the House of 
Representatives, and in the community feel.

I have reviewed Judge Southwick's record and the transcript of his 
confirmation hearing. I have read the many letters, both pro and con, 
and I have spent about an hour or more talking with him in person.

What emerged for me was an understanding that Judge Southwick is a 
qualified, sensitive, and circumspect person. I think the personal 
qualities of an individual often get lost in our debates about judicial 
nominees. These nominees are not just a collection of prior writings or 
prior judicial opinions. They are, first and foremost, people; and the 
kind of person they are is, in fact, important. In my conversations 
with Judge Southwick, I have gotten a sense of the type of person that 
I believe him to be. He is not either insensitive or a racist but one 
who is thoughtful and analytical and a strong believer in the law. As 
an appellate court judge, he evaluates the specific legal issues of the 
case before him, not necessarily the veracity of the parties involved 
as would a trial judge.

I know some of my colleagues are opposed to this nomination. Concerns 
have been raised about his judicial record, particularly with regard to 
civil rights and the rights of gays and lesbians. I assure my 
colleagues that I have taken these concerns seriously. I gave them 
careful consideration and made my best judgment, which is all any of us 
can do.

While I respect the views of my colleagues who oppose this 
nomination, I also respectfully disagree. I think Judge Southwick made 
mistakes by concurring in the two opinions in question, but I don't 
think those rulings define his views. I don't believe they outweigh the 
other factors that suggest Judge Southwick should be confirmed.

As I see it, there are three factors that weigh in favor of 
confirmation. They are:

First, the qualifications and character of the judge himself;

Second, the need to fill this long-time vacancy in the Fifth Circuit 
which the judicial branch has designated as a judicial emergency;

And third, my very strong belief that when a future Democratic 
President sends up a judicial nominee who becomes controversial, the 
test should be whether the nominee is within the judicial mainstream 
and is qualified by education, experience, and temperament to be a 
sound judge or Justice in the Federal court system of our great 
country.

When I weighed those factors against the concerns I have heard, I 
decided to vote in favor of Judge Southwick in committee. They also 
will form the basis for my vote on Judge Southwick tomorrow.

The first factor I wish to address is his qualifications and 
character. I don't think anyone disagrees that Judge Southwick is an 
experienced appellate court judge. He sat on the State court of appeals 
in Mississippi for 11 years, from January 1995 to December of 2006. He 
has heard roughly 7,000 appeals.

How many judges have we confirmed without nearly that kind of 
experience? This is a large number of cases.

There is no organization better positioned to evaluate the 
performance of judges in Mississippi than the Mississippi State bar, 
and they awarded Judge Southwick their Judicial Excellence Award in 
2004, after he had been on the State court bench for 10 years. That 
award describes him as: ''A leader in advancing the quality and 
integrity of justice,'' and as ''a person of high ideals, character, 
and integrity.''

Isn't that the kind of judge we want to see on the bench?

I think those views from the bar association from his home State are 
important. I also think it is significant that the American Bar 
Association, which evaluates every judicial nominee that comes to the 
Senate for confirmation, unanimously rated Judge Southwick ''well 
qualified''--their highest rating. In fact, the evaluation by the ABA 
for him to serve on the Fifth Circuit is stronger than it was when he 
was nominated to a district court last year.

For that nomination, the ABA was not unanimous in finding him ''well 
qualified.'' But they were for the appellate court.

The Judiciary Committee approved that nomination, but the 109th 
Congress ended without further action on it. Now, Judge Southwick 
stands before us with a unanimous recommendation for the Fifth Circuit 
from the ABA.

I am also impressed, as Senator Specter spelled out, by his record of 
military service to our country. I find it singular among the judges in 
the 15 years I have served on the Judiciary Committee.

This judge joined the U.S. Army Reserves in 1992 at the age of 42. To 
do that, he had to get an age waiver.

How many would do that?

He had already achieved professional success as a lawyer. At the 
time, he was serving as the Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the 
Civil Division of the Department of Justice. Still, he felt a sense of 
duty to his country, and he did not let his age or his promising 
civilian legal career stop him.

He volunteered in 2004 for a unit that was going to be deployed to 
Iraq. That unit, the 155th Brigade Combat Team, was, in fact, deployed, 
and he was with it.

Judge Southwick was 53 years old at the time. He had a wife and 
family and a prestigious job as a judge on the State court of appeals. 
Yet, from January to December 2005, he served in Iraq--first as a 
Deputy Staff Judge Advocate at Forward Operating Base Duke, and then as 
Staff Judge Advocate for the 155th Brigade at Forward Operating Base 
Kalsu.

How many judges have done that? Shouldn't that count for something?

Well, it counts to me, Mr. President. To me, it is a clear indication 
of the character of the man, and I deeply respect him for this military 
service.

The second factor that is important, in my judgment, is the need to 
fill this vacancy on the Fifth Circuit. It has been vacant for 7 out of 
the last 8 years. Judge Southwick is the third nominee for the 
position--not the first or the second, but the third.

The vacancy opened in August 1999--7 years ago--and went unfilled for 
more than 4 years. Then, in 2004, the President used a recess 
appointment to place Charles Pickering on the bench. The Senate did not 
confirm Judge Pickering to the seat, and since the end of 2004, it has 
been vacant again. Michael Wallace was nominated for it, but that 
nomination wasn't approved by the Judiciary Committee.

So at this time the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts has 
declared this seat to be a ''judicial emergency.''

Now, I am not suggesting that we should confirm whomever the 
President nominates just because a seat has been vacant for a long 
time, or because the seat has been designated a judicial emergency. But 
I hope this urgent need to fill a longtime vacancy will help tip the 
balance in the nominee's favor. By any measure, 7 years is too long for 
a vacancy to remain open.

The third factor that weighs in favor of confirmation for me is my 
strong belief that we have seen too much delay and controversy over 
qualified nominees for too many years.

There are plenty of examples of long delays in the confirmation 
process when President Clinton was in office and the Senate was under 
the Republican control. For example, when Ronnie White had the support 
of Senator Bond and was voted favorably out of the Judiciary Committee 
twice, it took more than 2/1/2/ years for the nomination to come to the 
floor, and then the nomination was rejected.

William Fletcher was a well-qualified Ninth Circuit nominee in the 
1990s. Unlike Judge White, at least Judge Fletcher was confirmed by the 
Republican Senate--thanks in large measure to Senator Hatch--but not 
until he had waited for 3/1/2/ years.

During that period of time, I had calls from prospective judges, 
saying: I don't know what to do. Do I stay the course, or withdraw? 
What do I do about my family? These are real problems and we ought to 
respond to them.

I also share the views of my colleague, Senator Lott, that we must 
improve the confirmation process. He recently wrote an op-ed column in 
which he explained his vote to confirm Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg to 
the Supreme Court. Since the Senator is sitting here, let me quote him:




 I probably wouldn't agree with Justice Ginsburg on any 


 philosophical issue, but she




 was qualified to serve by education, experience, and 


 temperament. Elections have consequences, and she had 


 President Clinton's confidence.


That is the way it was. I have used the same analysis to arrive at my 
position on Judge Southwick. I probably would not agree with him on 
certain philosophical issues, but I think he is qualified to serve by 
education, by experience, and by temperament.

Critics of this nomination have pointed to two opinions: one that 
reinstated an employee who had been fired for using an egregious racial 
slur, and another that denied a woman custody of her child for reasons 
that included--but were not limited to--her involvement in a same-sex 
relationship.

These are 2 opinions out of 7,000 cases that he heard or that he sat 
on. They are opinions he joined, not ones he wrote. One was a majority 
opinion joined by four other judges on his court, and one was a 
concurring opinion in a case where he also joined the majority opinion.

Ultimately, the case involving the racial slur was reversed by the 
State supreme court and remanded for consideration of a different 
penalty. The ruling of Judge Southwick's court in the child custody 
case apparently was not appealed to the State's high court.

Critics of Judge Southwick have also pointed to certain rulings that, 
in their view, suggest that Judge Southwick will be hostile to 
workers, minorities, and those who lack power and privilege in our 
society. These are serious concerns. But I don't think these cases 
accurately reflect Judge Southwick's views. This is only my best 
judgment, based on my own discussions with him.


The racial slur case, Richmond v. Mississippi Department of Human 
Services, involved, as has been stated, a State employee who had used a 
racial slur in reference to an African-American coworker. The State 
agency fired the employee, and she appealed to an administrative board, 
which ordered her reinstated.

Judge Southwick joined a majority opinion that upheld the board's 
decision to reinstate the employee. The opinion stated that there was 
sufficient evidence in the record to support the decision of the board.

I believe he should not have joined the court's opinion, but I don't 
think his decision to concur in that opinion should disqualify him from 
being a Federal judge.

After our meeting in person, I asked the judge to put his thoughts in 
writing, and he did. I found the letter convincing.

Mr. President, I will quote some of this letter:




 The court said that the use of the word ''cannot be 


 justified'' by any argument. It could have gone far beyond 


 that legalistic statement. Captured in this one terrible word 


 is a long, dark, sad chapter in our history. This racial slur 


 is unique in its impact and painful to hear for many, 


 including myself. I said at my hearing that this is the worst 


 of all racial slurs. Its use is despicable. All people of 


 good will should make their rejection of the word clear. The 


 opinion had an opportunity to express more fully and 


 accurately the complete disgust that should greet the use of 


 this word. Such a statement would certainly be consistent 


 with my own beliefs that this is the worst kind of insult. As 


 I testified, everyone took this issue extraordinarily 


 seriously. I regret that the failure to express in more depth 


 our repugnance of the use of this phrase has now led to an 


 impression that we did not approach this case with sufficient 


 gravity and understanding of the impact of this word.


The letter goes on to say:




 I always tried to treat everyone who came before me as a 


 judge with respect. I gave a memorandum to each of my law 


 clerks that they were to use no disparaging words towards 


 anyone in a draft opinion, no matter what the appeal was 


 about. From the bench and in my opinions, I followed that 


 same rule. I believe that everyone whom I encounter, whether 


 as a judge or in some purely private capacity, is deserving 


 of my respect.



 I took a broad view in looking for staff. I was one of the 


 original ten judges on the Court of Appeals, taking office in 


 January 1995. In my second year on the court, I became the 


 first white judge to hire an African-American law clerk on 


 that court. I could not have been more pleased with her work, 


 and she went on to be a partner in a major Mississippi law 


 firm. I was equally pleased with the two additional African-


 American clerks I hired before I left the court.


Judge Southwick concludes by saying:




 Until the last two months, my fairness and temperament had 


 not been subject to criticisms. The recent concern may have 


 arisen from the fact that only one piece of evidence was 


 being used, namely, the racial slur opinion. A much better 


 explanation of my own abhorrence of this slur clearly could 


 have been written. I have tried in this explanation to 


 express my disgust for the use of that word and to present 


 some of the evidence from my own life to prove my commitment 


 to furthering the civil rights of all.


In the second case, the child custody case, which is called S.B. v. 
L.W., Judge Southwick's court affirmed a decision to deny custody of a 
child to a mother who was in a same-sex relationship. The lower court 
had based its opinion on several different factors, such as employment, 
financial stability, and stability of the environment, and not just the 
sexual orientation of the mother.

In fact, a major concern in the case was that the mother was planning 
to move to a new city, and the mother had admitted that the move was 
not in the daughter's best interest. She said she did not know where 
her daughter would attend school, and also that she would be devoting a 
lot of time to starting a new business after the move.

Judge Southwick joined the majority opinion, upholding a lower 
court's decision that the best interests of the child would be better 
served by being in the father's custody. He also joined a concurring 
opinion written by another judge.

When asked about the case at his hearing, Judge Southwick said that 
he had joined the concurring opinion because it followed State law at 
the time, which was governed by Supreme Court precedent that has since 
been overruled. Judge Southwick conceded at the hearing that under 
current law the analysis of the case, and perhaps the result, would be 
different.

Again, the question is whether his decision to join the opinion is 
grounds for disqualifying him from a Federal judgeship. To me, simply 
stated, it is not.

So I am voting in favor of Judge Southwick because I think, based on 
the letter he wrote to me, on my discussions with him, and on his 
record, he is not outside of the judicial mainstream.

That is the primary criterion I use when evaluating an appellate 
nominee, and I expect future nominees of Democratic Presidents to be 
treated in the same way.

I believe the concerns that have been raised about Judge Southwick 
are outweighed by his record of service to our country, his long 
experience as an appellate court judge, and the temperament I have come 
to know in my discussions with him.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the mandatory quorum 
required under rule XXII with respect to the Southwick nomination be 
waived.