---
---

# None
## `d75cca38fdf26ad0d5fd7465813ad805`
`Mr. HARE — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. HARE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2199, 
the Traumatic Brain Injury Health Enhancement and Long-Term Support 
Act. As a Member of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, I had the 
privilege of working on this bipartisan bill, which I believe provides 
critical resources to our heroes with combat-related brain injuries. I 
commend Representative Altmire who initiated this effort and I thank VA 
Subcommittee Chairman Michaud, and VA Chairman Filner for quickly 
bringing this bill to the floor.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the most common wound suffered by 
troops returning from Iraq and Afghanistan; unfortunately it is often 
undetected until it is too late. The bill before us today ensures we 
preemptively screen all veterans for brain injury and that we have the 
facilities and research necessary to provide the best care possible.

Additionally, this bill addresses the needs of the 44 percent of 
service members who live in rural areas, like those in my district, by 
establishing an Advisory Committee on Rural Veterans. It also creates a 
pilot program for mobile counseling and mental health services.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud we took up this bill in the Veterans' Affairs 
Committee because it is a strong investment in timely healthcare for 
our returning troops. I urge my colleagues to support our military 
heroes by voting for the Traumatic Brain Injury Health Enhancement and 
Long-Term Support Act.