# BIPARTISAN CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION TO NATO PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY  MEETINGS
## `d76165baef2436e158220aa11b009568`
`Mr. TANNER â€” 14 December 2009`

---


Mr. TANNER. Madam Speaker, during the period November 8-16, 2009, I 
led a bipartisan House delegation to NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO 
PA) meetings in Edinburgh, Scotland, and to additional bilateral 
meetings in Belfast, Northern Ireland. The delegation also conducted 
bilateral meetings in Edinburgh. Joining me as Ranking Member of the 
NATO PA delegation was the Hon. John Shimkus. The delegation included 
Representatives John Boozman, Jo Ann Emerson, Baron Hill, Carolyn 
McCarthy, Jeff Miller, Dennis Moore, Mike Ross, David Scott, Albio 
Sires, Mike Turner and staff. The NATO PA delegation had a highly 
successful trip that examined a wide range of political, economic and 
security issues on NATO's agenda, as well as issues involving U.S. 
relations with Northern Ireland and Scotland.

The NATO Parliamentary Assembly consists of parliamentarians from all 
28 NATO member states. The NATO PA meets twice yearly in


plenary session in a member state and provides a unique forum for 
elected officials to analyze and debate challenging issues facing the 
Alliance. The NATO PA, through its deliberations, also provides 
guidance to the NATO leadership in Brussels. In addition to the 28 
member states, parliamentarians from countries such as Russia, Georgia, 
Afghanistan, and others participate in the sessions as associate states 
or observers. Through these sessions, delegates have the opportunity to 
learn first-hand the views and concerns that other countries have over 
the key security issues of the day. An invaluable aspect of the 
meetings is the chance to meet and come to know members of parliaments 
who play important roles in their own countries in shaping the security 
agenda that their governments pursue at NATO. These contacts endure, 
and can provide an invaluable private avenue to Congress and the 
Administration for insights into each ally's particular approaches to 
an issue.

The key issues on the agenda of the NATO Alliance as well as on the 
NATO PA agenda include the conflict in Afghanistan, the future of NATO 
and the writing of its new strategic concept, as well as more specific 
issues including relations with Russia, energy security, missile 
defense, and emerging challenges such as piracy and cyber security. 
Each of these issues was vigorously debated by the parliamentarians. 
Relations with Russia and the new strategy towards Afghanistan and 
Pakistan were two of the issues that dominated the session. Many 
members of the Alliance continue to question whether Russia is intent 
on pursuing an increasingly assertive security policy including efforts 
to intimidate neighboring states, through the threat of force. There 
was also concern expressed that Russia would continue to use its energy 
supplies as a political lever to influence European policy. It was 
clear from our meetings that not only the United States and NATO, but 
the European Union as well, are concerned about Moscow's posture on a 
variety of issues. And, while there were differences of opinion over 
how to structure future relations between NATO, the NATO PA and the 
Russian delegates to the Assembly, most felt that dialogue between 
NATO, the NATO PA, and Russia was important and should continue. Many 
delegates referenced the U.S. commitment to a new, constructive 
relationship with Moscow and expressed hope that through those 
promising relations, Russia's attitude toward NATO could become more 
positive.

On Afghanistan, there was continued support for the ISAF mission 
among the allies and a willingness to provide the additional civilian 
and financial support necessary for the reconstruction effort there. 
However, there was great interest in knowing how the Obama 
Administration will re-adjust U.S. and NATO strategy and how many 
additional U.S. military forces will be committed to the conflict. Our 
delegation was clear that this was not a U.S. war and that NATO's role 
in Afghanistan continues to be a critical factor.

Before the opening sessions of the Assembly's plenary the U.S. 
delegation received a detailed briefing from our Deputy U.S. Ambassador 
to NATO, John Heffern, who addressed several of the issues that would 
be debated during the NATO PA sessions, particularly regarding Russia 
and NATO's ongoing role in Afghanistan. Mr. Heffern also reviewed the 
recent Administration decision on European missile defense and the 
alternative plans being discussed with our allies.

Over two days of the NATO PA session, extensive meetings of the 
Assembly's committees took place. There are five NATO PA committees. In 
each, parliamentarians presented reports on issues before the Alliance. 
The reports were debated by all members of the committee who often made 
counter-arguments or suggestions for amending a report. Members of the 
U.S. delegation were present and active in each committee meeting.

The Political Committee heard three very interesting presentations. 
Former German General Klaus Naumann focused on the future relevancy of 
transatlantic security relations. A second presentation on the recent 
elections in Iran and their implications generated some interesting 
questions and debate. The third presentation addressed the challenge of 
international terrorism. Our colleague Rep. Carolyn McCarthy asked if 
the al-Queda terrorist organization was developing new training and 
planning bases outside of the Afghanistan/Pakistan region that the west 
should be watching. The Committee received presentations on three 
reports including one from our colleague, Rep. Mike Ross, a committee 
rapporteur, who discussed possible transatlantic cooperation with 
Pakistan. Mr. Ross's presentation was well received by the Committee. 
Other reports debated included ''Resetting Relations with Russia'' that 
featured several interesting comments from the Russian delegates, and 
''NATO's relationship with Georgia'' that included a discussion on the 
current situation in Georgia and where relations between Georgia and 
NATO now stands. There were still differences of opinion on who was 
responsible for starting the war in Georgia and how to deal with 
Georgia's aspirations for eventual membership in NATO.

The Committee on the Civil Dimension of Security is currently chaired 
by our colleague, Rep. Jo Ann Emerson. This committee discussed reports 
prepared by committee rapporteurs addressing security challenges and 
cooperation in Central Asia, and Moldova's internal challenges and 
prospects for Euro-Atlantic integration. The Committee also heard a 
presentation on lessons learned in the U.K. from the London terrorist 
bombing and an address from Georgian Vice Prime Minister Baramidze. The 
focus of the committee's work in this session was on the growing 
challenge of piracy off the coast of Somalia, which included a formal 
report on the subject. The Committee also approved a resolution 
recognizing this challenge and calling for a more coordinated 
international approach.

The Defense and Security Committee discussed three reports which 
reexamined NATO's ongoing operations in Afghanistan, addressed NATO's 
territorial defense capabilities, and covered the issue of cyber 
security. The Committee also conducted a joint session on the threat of 
piracy with the Committee on the Civil Dimension of Security. The 
Defense Committee adopted a resolution on Afghanistan, which among 
other things urged NATO governments and parliaments to: reaffirm their 
commitment to assisting the Afghan government to provide a secure and 
stable environment; to endorse the resource and approach advocated by 
the ISAF Commander; and to supply, as a matter of absolute priority, 
the personnel, equipment, and funding necessary to speed the 
development of the Afghan National Security forces, in order to promote 
a transition to Afghan leadership. Our colleague Rep. John Shimkus 
urged more commitment by NATO members to the mission in Afghanistan and 
stressed the need to reassure Eastern European allies about their 
security. Our colleague Rep. Mike Turner stressed the need to move 
forward with an all-NATO missile defense program.

The Economics and Security Committee debated three reports focused on 
food prices and their implications for security, on energy production 
in Central Asia and its potential contribution to transatlantic energy 
security, and a long discussion on the global financial crisis and its 
impact on member nations. In that third discussion, a number of members 
suggested that it would be useful to explore how the financial crisis 
was impinging on national defense budgets in allied countries. The 
Committee also heard presentations on the security aspects of food-
related crises, global energy market trends, and managing defense 
budgets in times of global recession.

Finally, the Science and Technology Committee discussed three 
extremely timely reports. One interesting report addressed climate 
change and its relationship to national security. This was followed by 
a presentation on the Arctic by the British Ambassador to Norway. 
Another report addressed the current efforts being used to combat the 
spread of weapons of mass destruction. This was preceded by a 
presentation on Iran's nuclear ambitions by Professor Ali Ansari from 
the University of St. Andrews. A third report provided a look at the 
resurgence of nuclear power as a source of clean energy and was 
accompanied by a presentation on the role of nuclear energy in the 
U.K.'s energy strategy.

On Tuesday, the final day of the plenary, the general assembly had 
the opportunity to hear a presentation from NATO Secretary General 
Anders Fogh Rasmussen in his first formal address to the Assembly as 
Secretary General. Rasmussen urged the Parliamentarians to help re-
build understanding between NATO and the publics of each member state 
especially with respect to the NATO mission in Afghanistan and the 
relevance of NATO itself. The Assembly also heard from Admiral James 
Stavridis, Supreme Allied Commander in Europe who asked NATO 
Parliamentarians to help the Alliance deal with the pace and complexity 
of the challenges the Alliance faces from a dynamic and constantly 
changing international environment. The SACEUR urged the NATOPA to help 
provide political input and guidance to NATO as the Alliance re-writes 
the strategic concept that will define NATO's future roles and 
missions. We also heard from the Honorable David Miliband, the UK's 
Foreign Minister who reaffirmed that the commitment of European 
military forces to Afghanistan, now under intense questioning 
throughout Europe, need not be an endless exercise as long as the 
international community and the Afghan government step up and provide 
the necessary resources and political will to develop a stable, 
reliable government in Kabul that can rid itself of corruption and 
provide the necessary security and public services that its citizens 
demand. Finally, the delegates heard from Lord Robertson, former 
Secretary General of NATO and the current President of Chatham House.

Finally, Madam Speaker I am pleased to report that Rep. Jo Ann 
Emerson was re-elected Chairperson of the Committee on the Civil


Dimension of Security along with Dennis Moore, John Shimkus, Jeff 
Miller, John Boozman, Ben Chandler, and Carolyn McCarthy who were all 
re-elected as Vice-Chairpersons of their respective Committees. Our 
colleague Mike Ross was also re-elected as the Rapporteur for the 
Political Committee's subcommittee on Transatlantic Relations. Our 
newest additions to the officer list include Mike Turner who was 
elected Vice-Chairperson of the Science and Technology Committee and 
David Scott who was elected as a Rapporteur also on the Science and 
Technology Committee.

In sum, Madam Speaker, the fall session of the NATO Parliamentary 
Assembly in Edinburgh was a success and as President of the Assembly, I 
took pride in the deliberations and participation of the delegates from 
all 28 member nations and our associate and observer members. For 
Members of the House or Senate interested in reading the Committee 
reports or presentations mentioned in this statement, they are all 
available on the NPA web site at www.nato-pa.int. I also want to take 
this opportunity to thank Dana Linnet, and Don Pena and all of the fine 
men and women of our embassy in London and Consulate in Edinburgh for 
the wonderful job they did assisting the delegation.


















Belfast


Prior to the NATO PA plenary, the U.S. delegation traveled to 
Belfast, Northern Ireland. The delegation received a country briefing, 
which included a general overview of the history and the current 
political and economic situation in North Ireland, from our Consul 
General Kamala Lakhdhir and Deputy Consul General Kevin Roland. One of 
the main issues discussed was the need to resolve remaining challenges 
related to policing and justice. The briefers expressed the hope that 
more progress will be made on those fronts in the next few months. The 
delegation held bilateral meetings in Belfast in order to demonstrate 
support for the fragile peace process and assess growing economic 
development opportunities. At the Northern Ireland Policing Board, the 
delegation spoke with senior officials, police officers, and 
politicians regarding its work overseeing the Police Service of 
Northern Ireland. We discussed the increasing participation of Catholic 
police officers, efforts to improve community policing as a means of 
building trust within all neighborhoods, and remaining challenges 
regarding the contentious issue of devolving policing and justice 
issues from London to Belfast.

The delegation spent several hours at the Stormont Assembly holding 
discussions with First Minister Peter Robinson, Deputy First Minister 
Martin McGuinness, and Speaker William Hay. These political leaders 
were frank about the challenges still facing Northern Ireland, 
particularly as regards policing matters. However, they also stressed 
the importance of economic development, jobs and infrastructure for 
enabling future progress. The delegation then observed a plenary debate 
in the Assembly.

Members saw first-hand efforts to stimulate economic development, 
including the attraction of foreign direct investment, in Northern 
Ireland. They visited Titanic Quarter, the largest commercial 
development site in Europe. The 186 acres will be developed as a blue-
chop technology district, including apartments, a film studio, an 
entertainment section, and an exhibition of the ship's history. The 
delegation also spoke with officials at the Northern Ireland Science 
Park who are working to bring together venture capitalists and 
entrepreneurs.

In addition, the delegation observed a community event which included 
a basketball game between Catholic and Protestant teenage girls 
organized by an American NGO called Peace Players. Sponsored by the 
Belfast Lord Mayor on the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin 
Wall, the event was held at the Peace Walls that still divide the 
communities of Belfast. The Members also visited a cultural center in 
West Belfast (Catholic/Nationalist area), where Gerry Adams (MP-Sinn 
Fein party) stopped by and made brief remarks. Normandy

Madam Speaker, as has been a tradition with the U.S. delegation to 
the NATO Parliamentary Assembly when we travel to Europe over either 
Veteran's Day or Memorial Day, the delegation makes an effort to visit 
a U.S. cemetery to pay our respects to our service men and women. On 
this occasion, we visited Normandy, holding a solemn commemorative 
ceremony and laying a wreath at the memorial in the American Cemetery. 
These visits are perhaps the most memorable and poignant moments of the 
delegation's trip. As our colleagues know, the critical WWII European 
campaign was launched on the bloody beaches of Normandy and eventually 
resulted in the defeat of the Nazi regime. The delegation visited the 
resting place of almost 9,400 U.S. soldiers, sailors, and airman who 
died in the liberation of France, and Europe, on Omaha and Utah 
beaches. The beautiful cemetery and visitors' facility overlooking 
Omaha Beach and the Ranger monument at Pointe du Hoc are managed by the 
U.S. American Battle Monuments Commission. We were deeply honored to 
visit the cemetery and want to thank Mr. Dan Neese, the Cemetery 
Superintendent, for his hospitality and the fine job he and his staff 
do to preserve the memory of those U.S. servicemen who gave their lives 
in such a noble cause. We also wish to recognize and thank Anaelle 
Ferrand, our Control Officer, and Walter Frankland, Deputy Chief of 
Staff, European region of the American Battle Monuments Commission for 
their fine assistance during our brief stay.


















Scotland


The delegation was pleased to receive a briefing by U.S. Consul 
General Dana Linnet (Principal Officer). Linnet gave a brief overview 
of some of the economic and political issues relating to Scotland, 
including the issue of devolution. The delegation also held several 
bilateral meetings in Edinburgh. We met with Scottish Justice Minister 
Kenny MacAskill to discuss his decision to grant compassionate release 
to Abdel Basset al-Megrahi, the convicted bomber of Pan Am flight 103 
that exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland. We expressed our deep 
disappointment regarding the Minister's decision, raising numerous 
issues regarding his handling of the case. We discussed U.S.-Scottish 
trade and cultural links with officials from the Scottish government, 
and we spoke about current political developments with the Scottish 
Parliament's Presiding Officer Alex Fergusson. The delegation was 
particularly interested to learn about the legislation that called for 
a referendum on Scotland's independence from the U.K. In addition, the 
delegation met senior Scottish military officials to discuss challenges 
facing the NATO alliance in Afghanistan including public support for 
the mission in Afghanistan which is low in the U.K. and for which more 
must be done to strengthen public support for the efforts there.

Madam Speaker, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly provides a unique 
opportunity for Members of Congress to engage in serious discussions on 
critical issues with our colleagues from other NATO member states, 
associate and observer states. I believe our delegation, and thus this 
Congress, benefits greatly from the information we exchange and the 
personalities we meet during these meetings. I look forward to our next 
NATO PA session in February in Brussels, Belgium.

In conclusion, I would like to again acknowledge the hard work and 
dedication of our Consular staffs in both Belfast and Edinburgh, for 
their hard work and dedication. I especially want to thank our entire 
military escort group from the United States Air Force, and Air Force 
Reserves, including our very fine pilots. Our diplomatic corps and 
military personnel provide a quiet but invaluable service in ensuring 
our safety and the success of our delegation business. This group of 
diplomats, service men and women was no exception. I thank them for 
their hard work and their dedication to duty.
