---
---

# None
## `d7687f9bacb32faa5d7307491c798f48`
`Mr. BIDEN — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Let me summarize the report.

The answer was ''over 100,000 people could be seriously harmed or 
even killed in the first half an hour.'' Let me say that again. One of 
these tankers filled with chlorine gas--and there are hundreds, up and 
down the road, going through major metropolitan areas, from Los Angeles 
to New York and everywhere in between--what would happen if a terrorist 
were to explode one of those in a major metropolitan area? The answer 
was: ''over 100,000 people could be seriously harmed or even killed in 
the first half an hour.''

Said another way: What happens if one of these is blown up in a 
freight yard in Philadelphia, PA, right along the Schuylkill River, 10 
blocks, 15 blocks from City Hall, the University of Pennsylvania, 
Drexel University--a very populated area? Within one-half hour, 100,000 
people could be seriously harmed or even killed.

How long would it take to evacuate that area? Imagine evacuating 
downtown New York City, Baltimore, Miami, Seattle--you name the city.

So what is the problem? Well, the problem is--and we have seen in 
recent reports--insurgents in Iraq are using chlorine in their attacks 
on civilians. There is little doubt terrorists who are targeting us 
here at home are paying attention. In these roadside bombs, they are--
thank God they have not gotten it down very well yet--but they are 
injecting chlorine into that carnage they cause because they know the 
consequence of the dissemination of the highly toxic substance in a 
populated area.

Nevertheless, we continue to allow these 90-ton--that is a standard: 
90-ton--rail tanks containing chlorine and other hazardous chemicals to 
roll unprotected through the hearts of our largest cities in high-
threat areas. We know the rail industry has adamantly opposed any 
attempt to allow local officials, in conjunction with the Department of 
Homeland Security and security people, to reroute these tankers.

Now, again, look where this tanker is sitting, as shown in this 
picture. Do these buildings look familiar to you? This is an actual 
photograph of a 90-ton chlorine gas tanker car sitting in the direct 
view--if you look over the top of it, you can see the Hart Building, 
you can see the Dirksen Building, and you can see the U.S. Capitol.

By the way, I know my friend, the Presiding Officer, a former board 
member of Amtrak, a guy who has fought very hard to protect Amtrak--we 
take the train almost every day together back and forth to and from 
Delaware--I say to my colleagues, go on down to the station this 
afternoon and follow us down whenever we finish and get on the train. 
If it is not an Acela, stand in the back car of an Amfleet train. You 
can look out the back window. Watch as we pull out of the station. Tell 
me how many cops you see. Tell me how many cameras you see. Tell me how 
much protection exists there.

Look at this tanker car, shown in this picture, sitting right out 
there--in the middle of nowhere, in the middle of everywhere.

So, folks, the idea we do not even have as an option the ability of 
our security people and the mayors and local


officials to suggest these tankers bypass their cities so, God forbid, 
if something happens, they are not as high a prize of a target--by the 
way, the less sensational damage able to be done, the less likelihood 
it will be picked as a target.

Because someone could legitimately argue: Biden, you are taking this 
out of the route--and we have other maps showing the routes of the 
various alternative routes that could be used to avoid the major 
cities. Now, they could say: You are going to be going through more 
rural areas. Yes, serious damage could be done in rural areas, but the 
prize for the terrorist is much lower. The likelihood of them 
concluding that instead of coming down from, for example, Newark, NJ, 
all the way down into Augusta--you can, in fact, reroute these on 
Norfolk Southern, which goes through much less populated areas.

People legitimately say: Aren't you putting those folks at risk? No 
matter where these cars are, we are at risk. But again, where is the 
likely target? Where are terrorists going to risk their lives to be 
able to go in and do damage? They will do it where the most people are.

So I know the rail industry, as I said, is adamantly opposed to 
amendment No. 306, and is likely opposed to the updated version we will 
vote on today. But in the face of such risks, I do not know how we can 
let their opposition determine whether we go forward.

This amendment is very limited. It simply states the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, not the rail industry--the rail industry is not the 
bad guy--should determine the most secure routes for the shipments of 
the most dangerous chemicals, and that ownership of the track is not to 
be considered in making this risk-based determination; meaning, if you 
have something going down on a CSX track that is owned by CSX, they 
should be able to use and be diverted to a Norfolk Southern track. I 
could give you examples all across the country, as the Presiding 
Officer knows.

Again, all I am saying is, let the Department of Homeland Security 
determine whether the most dangerous chemicals are able to be diverted 
around the most populated areas in our country. And do not--do not--in 
fact, use as an impediment the idea the track upon which it is being 
carried is not owned by the company whose car is on that track.

That is all we are doing, Mr. President. The amendment would apply to 
only .36 percent--less than a third of a percent--of all the shipments 
that occur on our rail system. It only applies to through-shipments; it 
does not apply to the destination city. Some of this stuff goes into 
large populations, where that is the end point. It doesn't say it 
cannot go there, but it does say we should reduce the probability of 
catastrophic damage by allowing them to be rerouted, if that is the 
judgment of the Department of Homeland Security.

A similar amendment was passed by voice vote in the House Homeland 
Security Committee today. Not one Republican or Democrat spoke in 
opposition to this measure. This amendment will ensure that the Senate 
is on the right side of the issue as well.

Mr. President, I was asked by my colleague from Connecticut, one of 
the two managers, that he be added as a cosponsor. I ask unanimous 
consent his name be added.