# None
## `d76a691b6ecf51263a06529ad6bcb3ae`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. You and Mr. Ryan are members of the powerful 
Appropriations Committee; and, today, watching Mr. Obey, the chairman, 
and seeing what he was able to do in moving this continuing resolution, 
which is the appropriations act which funds the government, to see that 
happen and to understand the history of it. Because when the 
Republicans took over in 1995 or 1994, went into power in 1995, they 
didn't have to deal with a continuing resolution because Mr. Obey and 
the Appropriations Committee passed all of their bills on time. They 
didn't leave unfinished business for the Republican Congress.

And, guess what, they also had a surplus as far as the eye could see. 
So whatever idea we wanted to implement, we had the money to do it 
because we had managers in this House of Representatives under 
Democratic leadership to make sure that the country was in the black 
and in good standing and did not have bad credit and did not owe 
foreign nations $1.05 trillion.

Then the Republican leadership comes in here and they hand things 
out, special projects, bridges to nowhere, all of these big items, and 
then come to the floor and grab it. That's fine.

The reason I am happy today is today is the beginning of getting the 
Appropriations Committee and this House in order and getting us on 
track under regular order. And I will guarantee as sure as my name is 
Kendrick Meek that the 2008 appropriations act will pass on time. There 
will be hearings. We will look at every project and make sure that 
everything is in order, because American taxpayer dollars are going 
towards those projects.

Very few appropriations committees met. They hardly met. Why do you 
want to ask questions and have hearings? As I said, the Foreign Affairs 
Committee only had one hearing on Iraq. They have had five thus far in 
this Congress, and counting.

So I feel very confident about the fact that we are talking about our 
vision and the leadership; B, we are pointing out the difference 
between some of the Members on the minority side that want to continue 
to carry out the old way and the Members on the minority side that want 
to move in a new direction. I am glad that they are there.

My last point, we have five Members in the majority here on a 
Wednesday afternoon when we are going to recess for the week that has 
the will and the desire. We have the will and desire to continue to let 
the American people and the Members know that we want to lead and we 
want to lead this country in a new direction and we want to work in a 
bipartisan way.

We could be home. We could be somewhere else. My kids are back in the 
cloakroom right now. I could be having dinner with them. But this is 
important. I want them to know, and when historians look at what was 
happening during a time when we had two wars going on, we have a 
President wanting to escalate with troops and the American people 
saying we don't want it, we have the country in a deficit, and then we 
have Members here crying about a project was cut out of the bill and I 
am upset about it.

I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that we are here on this floor, and 
I am glad that we are representing on behalf of the American people. We 
are not the Democratic National Committee. We are Members of Congress. 
And it should not be the Republican National Committee, it should be 
Members of Congress. That is what makes this House


work, and that is the reason why it worked today on the continuing 
resolution.

I am very happy that we did pass this continuing resolution. I am so 
glad that 57 Republicans joined Democrats in passing this continuing 
resolution, because it is showing that we are actually moving in a new 
direction, not just Democrats are moving in a new direction, but the 
U.S. House of Representatives is.