# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `d76cfdf77dc7695c9f322c17036453f1`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, tonight the Senate will vote on the 
nomination of Judge Michael Mukasey to be Attorney General. His 
nomination comes at a critical time. At this moment in history, America 
is faced with serious challenges both at home and abroad. We are at war 
in Iraq and Afghanistan and are engaged in a long-term struggle against 
al-Qaida and other extremists. Military might alone will not be enough 
for us to win these fights. Strengthening America's security requires 
us to harness the power of our ideals and values and lead a global 
effort to confront these threats. When we project moral hypocrisy or 
suggest that our commitment to our fundamental values depends on the 
circumstances, we lose the support of the world in our common efforts 
against common enemies, thereby compromising our own security.

The pictures of American soldiers mistreating prisoners at Abu Ghraib 
and the stories of detainee abuse at Guantanamo Bay compromised our 
moral authority and our ability to lead the global struggle against al-
Qaida. America must demonstrate an unambiguous commitment to basic 
human rights. And this is not some intellectual musing. It is hard 
headed pragmatism.

Earlier this year, I visited some of our veterans at a Michigan VA 
hospital. I asked one Korean war veteran who was lying in his bed: What 
can we do to help you? And do you know what he said? ''Win back the 
respect of people around the world for America.'' That veteran 
understands that the erosion of support for America makes us less 
secure and weakens us in a way that military force cannot remedy.

I have devoted significant time looking into the issue of detainee 
abuse and considering what is appropriate when it comes to the 
treatment of detainees in U.S. custody. Building back the respect for 
America that the Michigan veteran and all of us seek requires a 
definitive commitment to treating all people--even our enemies--in a 
manner consistent with both our laws and basic human rights.

Last month I asked Judge Michael Mukasey, President's Bush's nominee 
to be Attorney General of the United States, what I thought was a 
straightforward question for the record:




 Would you consider it inhumane to secure a detainee onto a 


 flat surface and slowly pour water directly onto the 


 detainee's face or onto a towel covering the detainee's face 


 in a manner that induced a perception by the detainee that he 


 was drowning?


That question to Judge Mukasey should have prompted a simple answer 
of ''yes.'' But the Judge said that, while the tactic is ''repugnant'' 
to him, he could not say it was inhumane without evaluating the ''facts 
and circumstances.'' Judge Mukasey's ambiguous response is more than 
deeply troubling, it sends a message--from the man nominated to head 
the Department of Justice--that abuses of detainees in U.S. custody may 
not have been categorically wrong, but that such acts might have been 
justified by the circumstances.

In 2002, the Department of Defense requested authority to use a 
number of aggressive interrogation techniques--including mock 
drowning--on detainees held at Guantanamo Bay. FBI agents vigorously 
objected to the aggressive techniques. One stated in a


legal analysis that aggressive techniques, including mock drowning, 
were ''not permitted by the U.S. Constitution.''

Another FBI agent also expressed alarm to his Justice Department 
colleagues over a DOD interrogation plan for a detainee held at 
Guantanamo Bay, saying ''You won't believe it!'' An e-mail described 
abuses that a FBI agent had witnessed, including detainees being 
chained in fetal positions on the floor for 18 to 24 hours at a time, 
having urinated and defecated on themselves and being subjected to 
extreme cold.

If Judge Mukasey were to be confirmed to lead the Department of 
Justice, he would take charge of the FBI. How would Judge Mukasey 
respond to those FBI agents? Would he have said that the validity of 
those objections depended on the ''circumstances''?

Over the past 5 years, the Department of Justice has repeatedly 
issued aggressive legal opinions that seek to exploit any possible 
legal ambiguity to justify the administration's policies. In 2002, for 
example, the Department of Justice issued a now disavowed memo finding 
that physical pain had to be ''equivalent in intensity to the pain 
accompanying serious physical injury, such as organ failure, impairment 
of bodily function, or even death'' to constitute torture. The 
Executive order that the President issued in July of this year 
interprets Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions to bar only those 
outrageous acts that are done ''for the purpose of humiliating or 
degrading the individual.'' The Geneva Conventions make no such 
distinction. These results-driven interpretations of law have 
contributed to the negative image of the United States in the world, 
leaving many to question why we attempt to impose standards on other 
countries that we do not require of ourselves. These interpretations 
endanger our troops when captured because their captors will cite these 
interpretations to justify abuses of our troops.

It does a disservice to our Nation for a person who has been 
nominated to lead the Department of Justice to hide behind purposeful 
ambiguities, particularly at a time when our Nation's prestige has been 
so tarnished by abuses against detainees in our custody. The legality 
of mock drowning--waterboarding--does not depend on the circumstances. 
It is illegal.

Waterboarding clearly runs afoul of three Federal statutes--the 1994 
antitorture statute, the Military Commissions Act, and the Detainee 
Treatment Act--and it is inconsistent with our obligations under Common 
Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions.

In his answers to questions from the Judiciary Committee, Judge 
Mukasey refused to state whether waterboarding constitutes torture 
under U.S. law. Under the Federal antitorture statute adopted in 1994, 
18 U.S.C. Sec.
2340, an act is torture if it is specifically intended 
to cause ''severe physical or mental pain or suffering.'' The statute 
defines ''severe mental pain and suffering'' as mental harm caused by, 
among other things, ''threat of imminent death.'' Pouring water over a 
detainee's face to create the sensation of drowning is intended to 
threaten imminent death.

In questions for the record of an August 2006 Senate Judiciary 
Committee hearing, Senator Durbin asked each of the Judge Advocates 
General, JAGs, of the Marine Corps, Air Force, Army, and Navy whether, 
in their personal view: ''the use of a wet towel and dripping water to 
induce the misperception of a drowning (i.e., waterboarding) (was) 
legal?'' The answer from each of the JAGs was an unequivocal ''No.'' 
The Marine Corps JAG responded to Senator Durbin ''Threatening a 
detainee with imminent death, to include drowning, is torture under 18 
U.S.C. Sec.
2340''--the anti-torture statute. Similarly, the Air Force 
JAG stated: ''An interrogation technique that is specifically intended 
to cause severe mental suffering involving a threat of imminent death 
by asphyxiation is torture under 18 U.S.C Sec.
2340.'' And the Army 
JAG responded: ''inducing the misperception of drowning as an 
interrogation technique is not legal.''


Whether the practice of mock drowning is legal is a question that our 
Nation's top military lawyers had no problem answering. But the nominee 
for Attorney General says that it depends on ''circumstances,'' it 
could be ''yes,'' it could be ''no.''

The U.S. Navy's Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape--SERE--
School trains our troops, whose dangerous assignments leave them 
susceptible to being captured, to resist and survive abusive tactics 
that might be used by the enemy. Waterboarding is one of the tactics 
that troops are exposed to at Navy SERE school. Listen to how a former 
master instructor and chief of training at the Navy's SERE school 
described waterboarding in an October 31, 2007, article in the New York 
Daily News:




 Waterboarding is slow-motion suffocation with enough time 


 to contemplate the inevitability of blackout and expiration. 


 Usually the person goes into hysterics on the board. For the 


 uninitiated, it is horrifying to watch. If it goes wrong, it 


 can lead straight to terminal hypoxia--meaning, the loss of 


 all oxygen to the cells.''


As he put it, ''waterboarding is a torture technique--without a 
doubt. There is no way to sugarcoat it.''

A U.S. Federal court has concluded that mock drowning constitutes 
torture. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals examined an interrogation 
technique used by the Philippine military under Ferdinand Marcos 
whereby ''all of [the victim's] limbs were shackled to a cot and a 
towel was placed over his nose and mouth; his interrogators then poured 
water down his nostrils so that he felt as though he was drowning.'' 
The court referred to this practice as ''water torture'' and found 
against those responsible for this and other illegal acts.

By contrast, Judge Mukasey not only refuses to state that 
waterboarding is torture, he also refuses to say whether it constitutes 
''cruel or inhuman treatment,'' which is illegal under the Military 
Commissions Act of 2006.

Congress enacted the Military Commissions Act in the wake of Abu 
Ghraib scandal. The statute bans interrogations tactics that constitute 
''cruel or inhuman treatment,'' which it defines as any act generally 
intended to cause ''serious mental or physical pain and suffering.''

Medical experts who have treated and observed the survivors of water 
torture have described the physical and psychological severity of the 
practice and its long-term effect. Dr. Allan Keller, associate 
professor of medicine at New York University, NYU, School of Medicine 
and director of the Bellevue/NYU Program for Survivors of Torture, 
recently testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee that a 
person subjected to the waterboard, ''gags and chokes, [and] the terror 
of imminent death is pervasive, with all of the physiologic and 
psychological responses expected, including an intense stress response, 
manifested by tachycardia, rapid heart beat and gasping for breath. 
There is a real risk of death from actually drowning or suffering a 
heart attack or damage to the lungs from inhalation of water.'' Dr. 
Keller put it plainly, the ''clinical experience and data from the 
medical literature are clear and unequivocal. These techniques can 
cause significant and long lasting psychological and often physical 
pain and harm.''

It is clear that waterboarding involves ''serious'' physical or 
mental pain or suffering and therefore constitutes illegal ''cruel or 
inhuman treatment'' under the Military Commissions Act. Yet in response 
to questions from Senator Kennedy and Senator Biden, Judge Mukasey 
would not say whether waterboarding is ''cruel or inhuman'' under this 
legal standard.

When asked whether the practice of mock drowning on detainees was 
''cruel, inhuman, or degrading,'' which is a violation Detainee 
Treatment Act, Judge Mukasey would not respond to the question, simply 
giving his stock answer that his analysis depends on the 
''circumstances.''

Congress passed the Detainee Treatment Act in 2005 to make clear that 
inhumane treatment is illegal. The Detainee Treatment Act prohibits 
subjecting any detainee in U.S. Government custody or control, wherever 
held, to ''cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment.'' 
Those terms were defined to restrict any conduct that would constitute 
cruel, unusual, and inhumane treatment or punishment prohibited by the 
U.S. Constitution, which includes conduct that ''shocks the 
conscience.''

There can be no question that mock drowning ''shocks the conscience'' 
and


rises to the level of ''cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or 
punishment'' under the Detainee Treatment Act.

I asked Judge Mukasey whether the practice of mock drowning on 
detainees was ''inhumane,'' which would be a violation of Common 
Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions. Judge Mukasey would not respond to 
that question, again giving his stock answer that his analysis depends 
on the ''circumstances.'' Regardless of what the President's recent 
Executive order would suggest, the humane standard of Common Article 3 
has never varied depending on the type of information in someone's 
possession or the purpose behind the acts.

The Army Field Manual on Intelligence, which sets standards for 
military interrogations consistent with the Geneva Conventions and with 
U.S. law that prohibits ''torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrading 
treatment or punishment'' explicitly bans certain coercive techniques 
including ''waterboarding.''

Throughout history America has condemned waterboarding by seeking 
prosecution of enemies who have used the technique on American 
servicemembers. Following the Second World War, U.S. military 
commissions and international tribunals prosecuted individuals who had 
used waterboarding, or similar forms of water torture on civilians and 
Allied forces. The U.S. military commissions in the Pacific theater 
explicitly held that the ''water cure'' was torture in prosecuting 
cases related to the mistreatment of captured U.S. bomber crews. The 
U.S. Military Commission at Yokohama, Japan also tried four Japanese 
defendants for torture, including water torture, of American and Allied 
forces. Each of the defendants was convicted and sentenced to 20 years 
hard labor.


Would Judge Mukasey find it acceptable if U.S. soldiers were 
subjected to mock drowning by our enemies? Would he say that its 
acceptability depends on the ''circumstances''? Would Judge Mukasey say 
that he needed to know the motives of our enemies before saying that 
our soldiers who endured waterboarding had been tortured or subject to 
inhumane treatment? Would he distinguish between someone who 
waterboarded our troops to elicit information as contrasted to someone 
who used the technique on our troops for sadistic purposes?

Judge Mukasey needs to be clear that waterboarding is illegal for the 
sake of protecting our men and women in uniform from abuse should they 
ever be captured. Judge Mukasey has not been clear and if he is 
confirmed to head our Justice Department, it will be America signaling 
moral ambiguity about what is unambiguously torture and inhumane.

In fact, the United States has prosecuted its own servicemembers who 
have used waterboarding and similar water tortures during 
interrogations. During the American intervention in the Philippines, in 
1902, a military court rejected MAJ Edwin Glenn's defense of ''military 
necessity'' and convicted him for using water torture on a captured 
insurgent. During the Vietnam war, a soldier participated in water 
torture which was captured in photos and published in the Washington 
Post on January 21, 1968. According to the Washington Post, the soldier 
was court martialed for his involvement in the practice.

U.S. veterans who served as interrogators in the Second World War 
recently discussed how proud they were that they were able to obtain 
vital information by using skill, not torture, and by treating a 
dangerous enemy with ''respect and justice.'' In an article in the 
Washington Post last month, one veteran proudly exclaimed:




 During the many interrogations, I never laid hands on 


 anyone. We extracted information in a battle of the wits. I'm 


 proud to say I never compromised my humanity.


I had hoped Judge Mukasey would stand with that veteran and stand up 
for American values. But despite the clear law and history, Judge 
Mukasey engaged in legalisms and obfuscation, playing into the negative 
image that others project about the U.S.--that we apply double 
standards.

This kind of obfuscation tarnishes America's image, which has a 
negative impact on our ability to organize and maintain alliances to 
achieve national goals. As Steven Kull, the director of the Program on 
International Policy Attitudes, stated:




 The thing that comes up repeatedly is not just anger about 


 Iraq. The common theme is hypocrisy. The reaction tends to 


 be--You were a champion of a certain set of rules. Now you 


 are breaking your own rules.


Purposeful ambiguity about the legality of waterboarding and the 
other coercive interrogation techniques he was asked about is at the 
center of Judge Mukasey's confirmation, just as it is at the center of 
how we are viewed in the world. That ambiguity is untenable and 
unacceptable in the person who, if confirmed, will symbolize America's 
concept of justice before the world. For these reasons, I oppose Judge 
Mukasey's nomination to be Attorney General.