---
---

# DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007
## `d77fb977bffd5e5673f931c09b19aaec`
`Ms. WATERS — 19 April 2007`

---


Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker and Members, I rise in support of H.R. 1905, 
the District of Columbia House Voting Rights Act of 2007, and I am 
proud and pleased to do so.

I was elected in 1991; and one of my colleagues, who was elected at 
the same time, Ms. Eleanor Holmes Norton, she has been in this battle 
ever since she has been here trying to educate this House and the 
Members of this Congress about the disenfranchisement of the people of 
the District of Columbia, and she has done a magnificent job of doing 
that.

That brings us to the point that we are today. We have worked out an 
agreement. We have bipartisan support. We have a piece of legislation 
that makes good sense. It will give representation to the people who 
live and work in this District, people who pay taxes.

When I rode in this morning, I rode in a taxicab with an elderly 
woman who has been driving a cab for 28 years. I struck up a 
conversation with her, and she told me that she had two sons in Iraq. I 
could not tell her about what we were doing on the floor today. I did 
not want to engage her in that conversation because I was too ashamed 
to even talk about the fact that she did not have representation, she 
did not have a voting representative because this body had not decided 
to use its power to give the vote to the people of the District of 
Columbia. But I am proud to stand here today because I think something 
wonderful is about to happen.

No matter the distortions about the Constitution, no matter the 
misunderstanding that I am hearing from the opposite side of the aisle, 
we are about to embark on something that is historical, that is 
constitutional, and is the right thing to do. And I am so pleased and 
proud to be a part of it as I stand here, looking in the eyes of my 
friend, Eleanor Holmes Norton, where I will be casting my vote with her 
today to give voting rights to the people of this District.