---
---

# None
## `d7924e2cced7eaf6d39c35158077da81`
`Mr. SKELTON — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise today in strong support of the conference report on H.R. 1585, 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008.

I must tell you, Mr. Speaker, that I'm so extremely proud of the 
members of the Armed Services Committee, of all of those who worked 
hard in and out of the Armed Services Committee to make this happen. 
And a special thanks to the fantastic staff that we have supporting us, 
Erin Conaton, Bob Simmons, who is the leader of those on the other side 
of the aisle regarding the staff, and everyone just pitched in so very, 
very well.

Mr. Speaker, this is a good bill. As a matter of fact, I think it's 
the best bill in decades that this Congress has put forward. It's good 
for our troops, good for our families, it will help improve readiness 
of our Armed Forces, and it will bring new significant oversight to the 
Department of Defense in areas where oversight was sorely needed in the 
past.

Let me begin by saying that the Armed Services Committee has remained 
committed to a tradition of bipartisanship, and we appreciate that, and 
we have all throughout the year.

Special thanks to our ranking member, the gentleman from California 
(Mr. Hunter) and today to the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Saxton) 
who's been such a great help through the years.

When the 110th Congress began, we laid out, from the Armed Services 
Committee, six strategic priorities, and we have met them in this 
legislation. The bill before us is the culmination of our efforts. It 
addresses strategic priorities in important ways. It includes a 3.5 
percent across-the-board


pay raise, it protects the troops and their families from escalating 
health care fees, and includes well over 100 other measures, both large 
and small, regarding quality of life. It is especially important 
because it adopts the elements of the Wounded Warrior Act which passed 
this House earlier in the year 426-0. And I think that that, in and of 
itself, is a major victory for those in uniform.

It addresses readiness. It establishes a new, high level board of 
military officers, the Defense Materiel Readiness Board, to grapple 
with the growing shortfalls confronting the Armed Forces. The bill 
allocates $1 billion to a Strategic Readiness Fund.

The bill will bring much needed oversight to the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. It does so by instituting new reporting requirements 
developed on a bipartisan basis.

The bill builds on the successful passage of H.R. 1, which fully 
implemented the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. H.R. 1585 
authorizes the funding required to carry forward that act by 
continuing, and this is important, and expanding the Department of 
Defense's cooperative threat reduction program and the Department of 
Energy's nuclear nonproliferation programs. Mr. Speaker, these programs 
address perhaps the single largest threat to the American homeland, the 
threat of nuclear terrorism and other weapons of mass destruction, and 
we address that very carefully in this bill.

We also include $17.6 billion for the mine resistant ambush vehicle, 
which is known as MRAP, to protect our troops in Iraq and in future 
conflicts. It does a great deal in the area of funding for our various 
ships, including production of two Virginia-class submarines per year 
by 2010, and adds eight C-17s to meet the needs of the demands of 
global power projection.

One of the most important elements of this bill, in addition to the 
money and the hardware, is a requirement that the Department of Defense 
perform a quadrennial review of its roles and missions. The first time 
this was addressed, and the last time it was addressed thoroughly, was 
back in 1948 at the behest of President Harry Truman and his then 
Secretary of Defense, James Forestal. The review we require in this 
bill causes a full examination as to whether the Department of Defense 
is truly developing the core competencies and capabilities to perform 
the missions assigned to it and whether those capabilities are being 
developed in the most joint and efficient way by the military services. 
Much has changed since 1948. Technology has changed and has blossomed 
and mushroomed, and that's why it's important that we update, by way of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Secretary of Defense, the Key West 
agreement that was met back in that year of 1948.

I am very, very pleased with this bill, Mr. Speaker. I think that 
history will say that this one was a comprehensive, if not the most 
comprehensive, Defense authorization bill that our Congress has passed 
in decades.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record, regarding the Key West 
agreement of 1948, a statement by Sam Rushie, who is the supervisory 
archivist of the Truman Library in Independence, Missouri.




 On December 19, 1945--3 months after the end of the Second 


 World War--President Truman recommended to Congress that the 


 War and Navy Departments be unified in a new Department of 


 National Defense. In his statement to Congress, Truman 


 declared, ''One of the lessons which have most clearly come 


 from the costly and dangerous experience of this war is that 


 there must be unified direction of land, sea and air forces 


 at home as well as in all other parts of the world where our 


 Armed Forces are serving. ''We did not have that kind of 


 direction when we were attacked four years ago--and we 


 certainly paid a high price for not having it.''



 On May 13, 1946, Truman met with Secretary of War Patterson 


 and Secretary of the Navy Forrestal, and he urged that the 


 Army and the Navy reach a compromise on the problem of 


 unification.



 The President's proposals were finally enacted on July 26, 


 1947, as the National Security Act, the main feature of which 


 was the establishment of a unified Department of Defense. 


 That same day, the President issued Executive Order 9877, an 


 attempt to define the functions of the Army, the Navy, and 


 the newly created Air Force within the unified National 


 Military Establishment. However, bickering between the 


 services continued, especially over issues that the Executive 


 Order had failed to address specifically. Many of these 


 issues concerned the functions of the Navy. The Army regarded 


 the Navy's Marine Corps as a rival for control of combat 


 operations on land; similarly, the Air Force viewed Naval 


 Aviation as an infringement on its jurisdiction over air 


 operations.



 In an effort to resolve these conflicts, Secretary of 


 Defense James Forrestal summoned the Joint Chiefs of Staff to 


 a meeting at Key West, Florida in March 1948. Following 


 suggestions made by Forrestal, the Joint Chiefs drafted a 


 directive entitled ''Functions of the Armed Forces and the 


 Joint Chiefs of Staff,'' popularly known as the ''Key West 


 Agreement.'' Forrestal submitted this proposal to the 


 President in late March. On April 21, 1948, the President 


 issued Executive Order 9950, revoking his earlier executive 


 order. This cleared the way for the Secretary of Defense to 


 issue the new directive that same day.



 With modifications, the Key West Agreement continues to 


 govern responsibilities within the armed forces to this day. 


 In contrast to the broad language of the earlier executive 


 order, Forrestal's directive specified the primary and 


 secondary responsibilities of each branch of the service. In 


 a tenuous compromise, it was agreed that the Navy would not 


 establish a strategic air component, but would be permitted 


 to have aircraft carriers and use its aircraft against inland 


 targets. (This was interpreted by the Navy as an endorsement 


 of the projected new supercarrier, the USS United States.) 


 The Air Force would retain primary responsibility for 


 strategic air operations and air defense. At the same time, 


 it was agreed that the Marine Corps would be preserved, but 


 would be limited in size to four divisions, and would 


 cooperate with the Army in planning amphibious operations.


Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.