---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE EXCEPTIONAL SACRIFICE OF THE 69TH INFANTRY REGIMENT,  KNOWN AS THE FIGHTING 69TH
## `d7923729b695fd8201adced6cb57041e`
`Mr. KING of New York — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. KING of New York. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise in support of 
this important legislation, H. Res. 991, honoring New York's famed 69th 
Infantry Regiment for its dedication and valorous service in the war 
against terror, particularly in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The Fighting 69th has been engaged in the war against terrorism since 
the very onset of the war, having been deployed to secure Ground Zero 
in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 
2001.

The 69th was deployed to Iraq in ''Operation Wolfhound'' and served 
with great distinction, defending the city of Al Taji, protecting 
Iraq's first free elections and, most significantly, securing ''Route 
Irish'' which had been the most dangerous travel route in Baghdad. 
Tragically the 69th had 19 troops killed in ''Operation Wolfhound'' and 
78 wounded. At no time, however, did the Fighting 69th ever waver in 
its mission. The Fighting 69th is now being deployed to Afghanistan 
where it will once more take the fight to our enemy.

Having served in the Fighting 69th and being an active member of the 
69th Infantry Veterans' Corps, I take particular pride in this 
regiment's achievements.

The Fighting 69th has served in five wars and six of its members have 
been awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. Its courageous service 
in Iraq and Afghanistan is adding new chapters to the regiment's 
historic and noble history.

I urge adoption of the resolution.