---
---

# None
## `d79ad891964391cfd63f110c8cfc8206`
`Mr. WITTMAN — 17 July 2009`

---


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to remember and honor 
Corporal Ryan C. McGhee of Fredericksburg, Virginia for his service and 
selfless sacrifice to his country.

Ryan McGhee's interest in the military dated back to his days playing 
soldier as a child. By the time he was ready to graduate from high 
school, football had become his passion. Pat Tillman, a famous football 
player turned soldier was among those that Ryan held in high regard. 
Like Pat Tillman, Ryan was killed in service to his country, like Pat 
Tillman, Ryan was a fine football player with a bright future. The 
parallels between these two men are unmistakable. Two athletes, two 
patriots, two men who chose to forego a life of relative comfort for a 
life of service to a cause greater than themselves. Nothing captures 
the spirit of our nation's warriors better than the illustration of 
selfless service provided by Ryan C. McGhee.

Ryan was born in Pittsburg and lived in Springfield, Vermont before 
moving to Fredericksburg, Virginia just prior to his sophomore year of 
high school. He and his brother Zachary grew up as active youths, 
enjoying snowboarding, skateboarding, and trick bike riding. Ryan and 
Zachary loved playing soldier. These two brothers progressed from 
playing soldier as boys to wearing the uniform as men.

An exceptional athlete, Ryan was the captain of the football team at 
Massaponax High School in Fredericksburg. This captain of the football 
team met his future fiance not long after arriving in Virginia. 
Ashleigh Mitchell and Ryan McGhee were engaged to be married in the 
spring of 2010. The picture perfect love story of the captain of the 
football team and the cheerleader had jumped from the pages of the 
story book into reality.

Ryan's dedication to the service of his nation had called him to 
service in the United States Army. His competitive nature led him to 
the 3rd Battalion 75th Ranger Regiment at Ft. Benning, Georgia where he 
served as a rifleman and grenadier before serving as a weapons squad 
team leader with Company D. Prior to his deployment to Iraq, he had 
already distinguished himself as a seasoned combat veteran, serving 
three tours in Afghanistan.

Ryan C. McGhee was called home on May 13, 2009 after being wounded 
when his unit came in contact with enemy forces while conducting combat 
operations in Central Iraq. He brightened the lives of his Fiance: 
Ashleigh Mitchell of Fredericksburg, Virginia; Father: Steven M. 
McGhee, and stepmother Kristie J. McGhee of Myrtle Beach, South 
Carolina; Mother: Sherrie Battle-McGhee, of Knoxville, Tennessee; 
Brothers: Sgt. Zachary McGhee,


Noah, and Gabriel; Sisters: Jasmine and Elsie McGhee; Paternal 
Grandparents: Mike and Roberta McGhee of Newport News, Virginia; 
Maternal Grandparents: Dr. and Mrs. William C. Battle of Knoxville, 
Tennessee; and countless others.

Ryan was truly an exceptional man, athlete, and soldier. His short 
but impactful life will forever highlight the virtue of those service 
men and women with whom Ryan now shares a common bond. He leaves behind 
a family proud of all that he had accomplished throughout his life and 
service in the military. His valor and service cost him his life, but 
his sacrifice will live on forever among the many dedicated heroes this 
nation has sent abroad to defend freedom. We can only thank his loved 
ones for sharing the company of this remarkable young man.

My condolences and prayers go out to Ryan's family, and I offer them 
my deepest sympathies and most heartfelt thanks for the service, 
sacrifice, and example of their soldier, Corporal Ryan C. McGhee. He 
was respected and admired by those around him, and continually 
performed above and beyond all expectations while serving his country. 
Because of his efforts, the liberty of this country is made more 
secure.
