# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `d7b11234c93d4f5026d0be2d994e249b`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota â€” 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I am saddened and, frankly, appalled that today in this 
House of Representatives we are debating a bill to put ''retreat and 
defeat'' into law at a time when we have our young men and women 
engaged in combat. There are many things, Mr. Speaker, which affect the 
morale of men and women in uniform and men and women in combat, but 
putting into law mandating their defeat is certainly one of them.

Mr. Speaker, on February 10, 2007, General Petraeus addressed the 
soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines and civilians under his command in a 
short letter. In that letter, General Petraeus explained quite clearly 
that ''the way ahead will not be easy. There will be difficult times in 
the months to come. But hard is not hopeless, and we must remain 
steadfast to help improve security for the Iraqi people.''

Mr. Speaker, this bill makes hard hopeless.

As a 25-year veteran of the Marine Corps and the father of a soldier 
recently returned from Iraq, it is with great hardship that I now 
oppose this emergency supplemental. This supplemental does not support 
our military; it undermines the best opportunity to prevent the dire 
predictions of our Intelligence Community when they put out that NIE 
saying that this course of action which will be driven by this bill 
will increase sectarian violence, cause massive civilian casualties, 
create a terror safe haven and a potential for wider conflict that 
would draw in other regional powers.

Again, General Petraeus said, in talking to his soldiers, sailors, 
airmen and marines, ''Success will require discipline, fortitude and 
initiative, qualities that you have in abundance.'' Would that we have 
more of that here.

























February 10, 2007.



 To the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Civilians of 


 Multi-National Force--Iraq:



 We serve in Iraq at a critical time. The war here will soon 


 enter its fifth year. A decisive moment approaches. Shoulder-


 to-shoulder with our Iraqi comrades, we will conduct a 


 pivotal campaign to improve security for the Iraqi people. 


 The stakes could not be higher.



 Our task is crucial. Security is essential for Iraq to 


 build its future. Only with security can the Iraqi government 


 come to grips with the tough issues it confronts and develop 


 the capacity to serve its citizens. The hopes of the Iraqi 


 people and the coalition countries are with us.



 The enemies of Iraq will shrink at no act, however 


 barbaric. They will do all that they can to shake the 


 confidence of the people and to convince the world that this 


 effort is doomed. We must not underestimate them.



 Together with our Iraqi partners, we must defeat those who 


 oppose the new Iraq. We cannot allow mass murderers to hold 


 the initiative. We must strike them relentlessly. We and our 


 Iraqi partners must set the terms of the struggle, not our 


 enemies. And together we must prevail.



 The way ahead will not be easy. There will be difficult 


 times in the months to come. But hard is not hopeless, and we 


 must remain steadfast in our effort to help improve security 


 for the Iraqi people. I am confident that each of you will 


 fight with skill and courage, and that you will remain loyal 


 to your comrades-in-arms and to the values our nations hold 


 so dear.



 In the end, Iraqis will decide the outcome of this 


 struggle. Our task is to help them gain the time they need to 


 save their country. To do that, many of us will live and 


 fight alongside them. Together, we will face down the 


 terrorists, insurgents, and criminals who slaughter the 


 innocent. Success will require discipline, fortitude, and 


 initiative--qualities that you have in abundance.



 I appreciate your sacrifices and those of your families. 


 Now, more than ever, your commitment to service and your 


 skill can make the difference between victory and defeat in a 


 very tough mission.



 It is an honor to soldier again with the members of the 


 Multi-National Force--Iraq. I know that wherever you serve in 


 this undertaking you will give your all. In turn, I pledge my 


 commitment to our mission and every effort to achieve success 


 as we help the Iraqis chart a course to a brighter future.



 Godspeed to each of you and to our Iraqi comrades in this 


 crucial endeavor.
























David H. Petraeus,













 General, United States Army Commanding.
