---
---

# None
## `d7b4d87f12534b966b3916a7f78c33d5`
`Mr. WELDON of Florida — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. WELDON of Florida. I thank the gentleman for yielding. I rise in 
strong opposition to this rule, and very strong opposition to the 
underlying bill.

And let me just say from the outset that I used to take care of AIDS 
patients before I came to this Congress back in 1994. I was one of only 
two physicians in a county of 400,000 people that was seeing AIDS 
patients. And I have announced my retirement, my intent to leave the 
House of Representatives at the conclusion of this Congress, and I will 
most likely go back to seeing patients in January. And I may, indeed, 
be seeing AIDS patients again.

Let me additionally say that I'm very concerned about the situation 
in Africa. Indeed, I have gone to Africa twice in my term of service 
here in the Congress specifically to look at the issue of helping in 
Africa with the issues of AIDS and malaria and TB, and so I think I 
have credibility to be able to say I care, I'm concerned. But this 
underlying bill and this rule that restricts any cutting amendments, in 
my opinion, is just excessive.

Years ago, when the President originally came up with PEPFAR, he came 
to me and asked me to help him with his plan, and I did. And I actually 
thought his plan was very, very generous, $3 billion a year. And when 
he gave his State of the Union message just a few months ago indicating 
that he wanted to double the size of this from $3 billion to $6 billion 
a year, I personally thought that was excessive. When you look at all 
the problems we have with health care access for Americans, the 
problems that we have with transportation infrastructure, the problems 
that we have in fighting the war in Iraq, Afghanistan, the homeland 
security issues, I thought to take this program from $3 billion a year 
to $6 billion a year was excessive and over the top.

But now we have before us today an underlying bill to not increase it 
by 100 percent, which is what the President was asking for, but to 
increase it by over 200 percent. That's the underlying bill. And the 
Democrat leadership of the House under the Democratic Rules Committee 
is saying, well, no, we don't want any cutting amendments.

Now, let me tell you a little bit of why I am so passionately upset 
about it. Yesterday, NASA announced that, with the retirement of the 
space shuttle, they are going to be laying off over 6,500 people in 
east central Florida, my congressional district. That is a huge amount 
of people. It has a huge economic impact on the State of Florida. And 
for us to be putting our astronauts on Russian rockets, we're going to 
have to sign a contract with the Russians for the construction of these 
rockets, we're essentially going to be laying off people in Florida and 
hiring people in Russia with U.S. taxpayers.

Now, this Congress, under this Democratic leadership, is saying that 
we have no choice, we cannot afford to continue to fly the shuttle in 
2011, 2012, 2013. We cannot afford to bring the new rocket system 
online any sooner than 2005 or 2006, we don't have the money, while we 
have all this money to send $50 billion to Africa for AIDS. Now, again, 
let me just say, I understand this is a terrible problem. I don't even 
mind increasing the Africa AIDS account. And what, to me, is insult on 
top of injury, my staff has informed me that they have $1 billion in 
this account unspent that they are working to try to spend. So, they 
can't even spend all the money that we're sending them over there, and 
we want to send them a 240 percent increase?

Now, I know every Member of this House can get up and give a speech 
like this; they have water projects in their district, they have health 
care clinics in their district. In my particular case, it's pretty 
significant. We've got over 6,000 people who are going to get a pink 
slip. So, for us to say we can't fly the shuttle beyond 2010 because we 
can't afford it, but that we can somehow find $50 billion to send to 
Africa, to me is just way over the top. I can't justify that back home.

I'm opposing this rule. I'm going to vote against the underlying 
bill. And I thank the gentleman for yielding me time. I appreciate it.