---
---

# KENDELL FREDERICK CITIZENSHIP ASSISTANCE ACT
## `d7b7c0f5c18dd8b96627568210ddad7e`
`Mr. CUMMINGS — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. To Chairwoman Lofgren, I want to thank you for your 
leadership. And certainly to Chairman Conyers and the ranking member 
and ranking member of the subcommittee, I want to thank all of you for 
getting this bill to the floor. Finally, I want to thank the 
professional staff on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration for 
working so diligently with my staff to bring this legislation again to 
the floor of the House.

Mr. Speaker, the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act truly 
is a step towards correcting and honoring our non-citizen 
servicemembers, many of whom continue to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
It is appropriate, therefore, that we consider this legislation as we 
approach Veterans Day, honoring all who have risked their lives to 
protect our own.

I introduced the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act to 
ensure that those who are willing to fight relentlessly on the 
battlefield to protect our great Nation do not have to also battle 
through a drawn-out citizenship process. Specifically, H.R. 2884 will 
assist our noncitizen servicemen and -women on the road to citizenship 
by making the following needed adjustments:

Requiring the United States Department of Homeland Security to use 
the fingerprints taken by the Defense Department at induction for 
citizen applications;

Requiring noncitizen military servicemembers to submit their 
citizenship applications within 24 hours of enlistment;

Requiring the Department of Defense and DHS to determine a single 
acceptable format for fingerprint submission;

Requiring DHS to update appropriate application forms for 
naturalization, the instruction and guidebook for obtaining 
naturalization, and the DHS Web site when naturalization procedures 
pertaining to members of the Armed Forces are changed; and

Ensuring efficiency and accountability to Congress by requiring the 
Government Accountability Office to report on DHS's training of 
personnel, methods and effectiveness in adjudicating applications by 
members of the Armed Forces.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation honors the memory of a young man from 
my district, 21-year-old Army Reserve Specialist Kendell K. Frederick. 
He was a resident of Baltimore County and a native of Trinidad who was 
stationed in Iraq and died while trying to journey to another post in 
order to meet the citizenship application fingerprinting requirement. 
In other words, if he didn't have to go through the changes that he 
went through, he probably would still be with us today. And one of the 
interesting things that was mentioned a little bit earlier, he was part 
of the ROTC process, but he was also a young man, when he entered the 
military, he entered and made agreement to serve in the military for 8 
years. I mean, even knowing that there was a war going on, he bravely 
said, I want to serve my country. And he claimed this as his country 
and still went out there and fought, but he wasn't even a citizen yet 
of our country.

Namely, after trying for more than a year to become a citizen and 
having his application delayed at least five times due to 
miscommunication and misinformation in processing his fingerprints, 
keep in mind the reason why he was killed was he was on his way trying 
to get his fingerprints done over there in Iraq, Specialist Frederick 
had no choice but to travel with a convoy to a base to resolve this 
issue. Unfortunately, he was killed on the way by a roadside bomb, 
never realizing his dream of becoming an American citizen. And the 
interesting thing is that he was in the last vehicle of the convoy.

Mr. Speaker, Specialist Frederick embraced a Nation that had failed 
to fully embrace him by honoring him with citizenship during his 
lifetime. And it's interesting I think that it was a day or so after he 
died, then they gave him citizenship. That is why I urge my colleagues 
to vote in favor of H.R. 2884 to make certain that no other soldier who 
wants to be a citizen will have to jump through unnecessary 
bureaucratic hoops. These outstanding noncitizen soldiers such as 
Specialist Frederick have made the choice to give voluntarily to our 
Nation by fighting the terrorist groups that threaten us, putting their 
lives on the line, sacrificing their blood, their sweat, their tears, 
and their lives.

I urge my colleagues to please vote in favor of this legislation. I 
know his mother is watching, and I know that she will be very moved. 
This is something that has been a long journey for her. And with that, 
I thank the gentlelady for your courtesy.