# None
## `d7bdbc2d55b51da012ae3495b1b58b4e`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. I really appreciate the analogy Mr. Ryan 
makes about the choices we're making. We don't want to borrow any 
money. We want to actually be honest about how you spend. I think it's 
a great point to make again that this administration and the Congress 
that used to control this body was making this choice.



You sort of put it to the average American living in Ohio or suburban 
Pennsylvania or Connecticut that if you had a choice to spend money and 
give an extra $100,000 to that really rich guy who lives up on the hill 
or you could spend that money to make sure that the Sponge Bob toys 
that your kid is playing with don't have levels of lead 100 times over 
the Federal standard, I mean, that's kind of a laughable question, like 
the premise, you know, you would be laughed out of the room by most 
parents for that. Of course you should put more testers and more 
product safety employees in the Federal Government.

What we find out, when the head of this organization, when the 
director of the Consumer Product Safety Commission comes and testifies 
about what's going on, why do we have 20 million toys manufactured in 
China that were recalled this summer? Why do we have that long list 
that Mr. Ryan puts up? Why do we have just recently a press release 
dated today from the Consumer Product Safety Commission calling for a 
recall of these fake teeth that kids use, and a lot of them use on 
Halloween. Well, it turns out that about 43,000 of these fake teeth 
that kids are using out there have levels of lead that might be as much 
as 100 times over the Federal standard.

I mean, this is dangerous stuff.

So Ms. Nord comes before the Congress to be held accountable, first 
time that's ever happened on this issue, I mean, finally we are 
bringing these bureaucrats in front of Congress to ask these questions, 
and she says that she doesn't have the resources to do her job and that 
there is one, quote, lonely toy tester in her office, one lonely toy 
tester who is responsible for the flood of millions, probably hundreds 
of millions of toys coming in from China.

When you think of the choices that have been made to give these 
massive tax breaks to the wealthy, to oil companies, to put our troops 
in harm's way in Iraq for a policy that's making this country less 
safe, not more safe, and what we got for all of that was one person who 
is charged with making sure that our kids don't get poisoned by toys 
over here, it boggles the mind.