---
---

# FIND WAYS TO COME TOGETHER ON IRAQ
## `d7be8b9937f5776d01e6815e302844cf`
`Mr. GILCHREST — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. GILCHREST. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

And I also want to thank all of you for coming down here this evening 
for a thoughtful dialogue on the issues of war and peace that confront 
this country and literally the rest of the world.

I would just like to speak to the issue of Iraq in the context of 
where we are in the world today. This is not our grandfathers' world. 
This is not our parents' world. This is a new configuration that can't 
be compared to World War II or even the Cold War. This is a world that 
is now filled with tiny splintering, struggling countries and cultures. 
The Soviet Union is gone. Southeast Asia, Africa, Latin America, we see 
a great deal of struggling third world countries, cultures, people 
trying to find their place, their niche.

One of the countries, the United States, has a golden opportunity to 
integrate ourselves with the rest of the world to encourage peace and 
security. And if we notice around the world, the world is integrated 
right now. The world is integrated globally. It is integrated 
economically with trade. It is integrated politically. It is integrated 
when there are disasters. We saw what happened with the tsunami to 
countries like Sri Lanka and Thailand and India and Indonesia when the 
world responded. The integrity of the world's compassion for these 
people was extraordinary.

The world is also integrated with disease. Whether it is Ebola, 
malaria, bird flu, TB, you name it, the world is integrated.

And one of the ways I think to solve the problem, besides solving the 
problem of Iraq on the House floor the way we are doing it tonight with 
a discussion, is to integrate our integrity with the great land mass 
that is around this great globe. The integration of integrity.



I want to make a quick quote by a former artist, media person, 
diplomat named Norman Cousins, who wrote a fabulous book called ''Human 
Options.'' In the book is one extraordinary quote, ''History is the 
vast early warning system.'' And if we look at how we dealt with the 
Soviet Union over decades of time, it was step by step by step with 
dialogue. What did we do with China over decades, even after China said 
that they would like to destroy the United States, even if it wiped off 
half the population of China? It was step by step by step of dialogue. 
What did we do with the Cuban Missile Crisis? It was dialogue. 
Unfortunately, we never had a dialogue with Ho Chi Minh. We lost 
probably a million people on both sides of that conflict.

What is the issue here with Iraq? It's a dialogue with the Iraqis, 
it's a dialogue with the Sunnis, the Shi'as, the Kurds. It's a dialogue 
with the Syrians, the Iranians. It's a dialogue with the Middle East. 
It's a dialogue with the international community to integrate ourselves 
to make a commitment to the politics, to the economics, to the security 
of all the peoples of the world.

So, there is hope. There is movement. And the way to solve one 
conflict is to understand the nature of the culture. Talk first, for as 
long as is necessary. And that dialogue got us out of the Cold War with 
the Soviet Union. Nixon went to China. Kennedy did not bomb Castro in 
Cuba. That can work today.

I will close with this comment from a book I recently read by Anthony 
Zinni called ''The Battle For Peace.'' And Anthony Zinni described the 
Cold War


where one man is in a room with a cobra alone for decades, and the man 
wakes up one morning and the cobra is gone, but the room then is filled 
with bees; a whole different set of circumstances. And you don't deal 
with the bees the way you dealt with the cobra.

I thank all you gentlemen for coming here tonight for this integrated 
dialogue so our integrity can mesh a little bit better and we will find 
a solution.