# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `d7fb8e35f02f44f59dc6d64ab8539b04`
`Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas — 10 June 2009`

---


Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Chairwoman, let me first 
thank the Chair and ranking member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
for their hard work on this entire document and for the privilege of 
offering this amendment.

I rise to claim the time in support of my amendment that would 
provide assistance for Afghan women legislators. The amendment would 
create a program in the State Department to support exchanges between 
Afghanistan and the United States for women legislators, expand Afghan 
women's participation in international exchange programs of the 
Department of State, and promote the advancement of women in the field 
of politics with the aim of encouraging more women to participate in 
the civil society. This program would give female lawmakers of the 
National Assembly of Afghanistan new opportunities to improve their 
political and administrative skills and to identify and mentor other 
future qualified women interested in leadership in the public service.

A new generation of leaders is helping to pave the way to consolidate 
and secure a stable democracy in Afghanistan. Afghan women legislators 
are helping to forge this path and already have contributed 
significantly to the country's democratic solutions. However, as a 
group, these women legislators face a unique challenge in navigating 
their path in the political system because of their agenda.

Additionally, many obstacles stand in the way of the advancement of 
the status of females, including violence against women and restriction 
on women's personal freedom of movement. Given the current challenges 
with the status of women and rising insecurity, the Afghan women 
legislators can greatly benefit from increased professional and 
leadership development. The U.S. and the international community must 
ensure that Afghan women can safely and effectively exercise their 
rights as citizens.

This amendment would also open additional possibilities to take part 
in an international visitors program and training through the State 
Department, which already maintains a similar program to encourage 
women in leadership in other countries. This would be paid out through 
the customary means for professional exchanges by the State's Bureau of 
Educational and Cultural Affairs.

Taking part in such programs would not only train current 
legislators, but encourage more women to participate in Afghan civil 
society. Exchange programs such as these can help raise the awareness 
of democratic values. These goals are consistent with the national 
security objectives for Afghanistan and represent an effective use of 
our public diplomacy resources.

I urge all of my colleagues to support the benefits of international, 
cultural, and education exchange and to vote ''yes'' on this amendment.

I reserve the balance of my time.