---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `d805ccefaf6e1ed7c26d11a41325e087`
`Mr. CONYERS — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 5136, the 
''National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011.'' As with 
most omnibus pieces of legislation, there are many provisions I 
support, as well as those I do not. Unfortunately, the improvements to 
our military policy do little to blunt the effect of the wasteful 
billions authorized for military spending, which continue to feed the 
military-industrial complex and the ever-growing imperial overstretch 
of our military around the world.

I do want to briefly acknowledge a few of the provisions I supported 
in this bill. First, I am heartened that an amendment I offered with my 
colleague, Representative Geoff Davis of Kentucky, was adopted by the 
House. Our amendment builds on our bipartisan resolution, H. Con. Res. 
94, and would instruct the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of State, to submit a report to Congress assessing the 
strategic benefits of the successful negotiation of a ''rules of the 
road'' Incidents At Sea naval agreement including the United States and 
Iran. I believe such an agreement would reduce tensions in the region 
and help prevent accidental war. I am heartened that the Defense 
Department and State Department will officially address this critical 
issue.

Additionally, I want to acknowledge the good work of Representatives 
Schakowsky, McGovern, Hinchey, and Moran. Together, we successfully 
offered an amendment that would empower the Special Inspector General 
for Afghanistan Reconstruction to improve its oversight and take steps 
to deny federal funding to private security contractors responsible for 
the deaths of Afghan civilians. For far too long, mercenaries like 
Blackwater have acted with impunity in the theaters of war, committing 
human rights atrocities and soiling the good name of the American 
people. With the adoption of this amendment, we are hopefully moving 
closer to finally putting these reckless soldiers of fortune out of 
business.

Unfortunately, this authorization does not do nearly enough to 
properly reorient our national security posture to earn my vote. As 
with past defense budgets, it spends too much on war, outdated Cold War 
weapons systems, and nuclear weaponry.

The American people cannot afford the $159.3 billion provided in this 
bill to fund our ''overseas contingency operations''--the Orwellian 
term for our wars in Afghanistan and Iraq--with our economy struggling 
to escape recession and with so many families torn apart by long 
deployments, debilitating battlefield wounds, and heart-wrenching 
premature deaths. Continuing to fund our wars simply continues to 
compound the mistakes of the previous administration and I, in good 
conscience, cannot support a bill that continues us down this path of 
folly which has, to date, cost us the lives of 1,000 young men and 
women in Afghanistan and nearly $1 trillion in war spending since 2001.

I was inspired by a passage in the President's new National Security 
Strategy, which was released today. It spoke of another path towards 
securing our homeland and brokering peace around the world. It simply 
and eloquently stated:




 The freedom that America stands for includes freedom from 


 want. Basic human




 rights cannot thrive in places where human beings do not have 


 access to enough food, or clean water, or the medicine they 


 need to survive.


Those are powerful words and they speak to a universal truth: When we 
love and care for one another, we do not need to rely on nuclear 
weapons, Virginia-class submarines, or other tools of destruction to 
secure ourselves and our families. We don't need to invest 26.5 million 
in ''counter-ideology initiatives,'' when our national policy is to 
export hope and dignity instead of Predator drone missiles. The death 
of a family member and the humiliation associated with a night raid is 
what radicalizes someone to the point where they seek to harm the 
American people. We can and we must stop these destructive practices if 
we hope to win over our brothers and sisters in the Muslim world.

I have unending faith in the ability of the American people to change 
our country's course when needed. I believe that they can stand up and 
say ''no'' to our nation being perpetually at war. I believe that they 
can say no to spending more on defense than all the other nations of 
the world combined, especially when people in Detroit and Hamtramck and 
Dearborn still need a job that pays a decent wage. I hope my fellow 
Members will join me in opposing this bill, so that we can inspire the 
American people to pursue another, better path.

Mr. McEON.Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.