# None
## `d80c45e9249b3e243e87b8ce9256f8a6`
`Mr. LEVIN — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. The message is not conflicting at all. There is no 
conflict between saying we are going to support our troops, we are not 
going to reduce funding for them, and at the same time have a goal a 
year hence for when they transition to the more limited mission. There 
is not the slightest inconsistency. It is not a conflicting message. If 
we are interested in success in Iraq, there is only one way to achieve 
it--for the Iraqi politicians to reach agreement on their differences 
which have continued the conflict. That is not just me saying it. That 
is our military leaders.

I wish to read this quote because I am not sure people have focused 
on it. This is our State Department. I ask my colleagues to listen to 
this very brief quote from our State Department:




 Senior military commanders portray the intransigence of 


 Iraq's Shiite-dominated government as the key threat facing 


 the U.S. effort in Iraq rather than al-Qaida terrorists, 


 Sunni insurgents or Iranian-backed militias.


Is that a conflicting message from our State Department, when they 
identify the political leaders of Iraq as being the major threat to our 
success? They are the major threat to our success. We all know it. Our 
military leaders have said it is the failure of the political leaders 
of Iraq to work out their differences, which is the key problem that 
keeps the battle going on between Iraqis. That is our State Department. 
Is that a conflicting message? I don't think so.

It is the truth. Most of us recognize it. We are all completely 
unhappy with the Iraqi political leaders. Most of us, when we go to 
Iraq, tell them that. The President of the United States has even said 
it is useful for that message to be delivered. Let us deliver it 
tonight.