---
---

# MICHAEL A. MARZANO DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OUTPATIENT CLINIC
## `d80d5f5cab964eae0d8610731e19f4dd`
`Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania — 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from 
Florida, and I particularly want to thank the chairman and my good 
friend and colleague, Mr. Altmire, for making the timely consideration 
of this legislation possible on the floor today.

I arise to ask all of my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 
1594. It does something that I think every veterans' organization in 
Mercer County has asked us to do, which is to designate the Department 
of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic in Hermitage, Pennsylvania, as 
the Michael A. Marzano Outpatient Clinic.

Marine Sergeant Michael Marzano, as you have heard, was killed on 
Saturday, the 7th of May, 2005, while on assignment in Iraq. I arise 
here to ask you to support this legislation with a great deal of 
emotion because this man was the first soldier from Mercer County to 
give his life in the global war on terror.

I can't express myself on this as well as his commanding officer 
expressed it in a letter which I was given and which I would like to 
read a portion of.

''On 08 May 2005, enemy insurgents fired from positions within the 
local hospital attacking U.S. Marines in the city of Haditha, al Anbar 
province, Iraq. Patients and the medical staff were forced to remain in 
the hospital while enemy forces triggered this attack that included a 
Suicide Vehicle-Borne Improvised Explosive Device. The SVBIED exploded 
approximately 30 feet from the hospital patient ward, killing four 
Marines from 3rd Battalion, 25th Marines and igniting a fire within the 
hospital.

''Lance Corporal Lance Graham watched his platoon from above as he 
always did above his machine gun. Sergeant Michael Marzano's leadership 
and humor rubbed off on everyone round him. Sergeant Aaron Cepeda 
always welcomed new members to his platoon like they were part of his 
family. Finally, one Sailor who we will always call 'Marine' because he 
continuously acted like one, Petty Officer 3rd Class Jeffrey Wiener, 
all gave their lives that day. They had the job of protecting the force 
as the Quick Reaction Force and many more lives were saved due to their 
sacrifice. All four gave the rest of the platoon precious minutes that 
allowed the Marines to return fire immediately, resulting in the 
insurgents going on the defensive.

''Because the bravery of the men of Mobile Assault Platoon 7, the 
remainder of the force of over 70 Marines and Sailors sustained the 
attack and protected the hospital. The members of the 3rd Battalion, 
25th Marines, will always honor and remember what they did. We remember 
our friends fondly. The memory of their leadership, courage, and 
sacrifice live on in the Marines and Sailors who served with them. Even 
in passing, they still continued to protect their brothers.''

Signed, Captain John A. Kasparian.

Mr. Speaker, on October 16th, 2006, after a lot of work by several of 
us in the delegation, the veterans hospital in Butler, Pennsylvania, 
opened a Mercer County Outpatient Clinic in Hermitage. Almost 
immediately, veterans from Mercer County contacted me asking to have 
the new clinic named for Sergeant Marzano.

My staff confirmed their tales of Sergeant Marzano's heroism, and I 
requested input from my veterans' advisory panel to determine if there 
were


other candidates for this honor. All of the respondents, including the 
families of other fallen soldiers, universally agreed that Michael 
Marzano deserved this honor. He was the first to die in Iraq from 
Mercer County. He epitomizes the bravery and the dedication of all of 
our country's best. He deserves to be remembered, as does everyone who 
has given their lives in that conflict.

Sergeant Marzano's friends and family have already mourned his death. 
But with this legislation, we will honor his courage and present his 
life as a worthy example for future generations of young men and women.

Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in this worthy honor 
to this remarkable soldier.