---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `d82877c705e19f09f2318128d68e6b49`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 25 April 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California 
for the time.

At this difficult moment and in previous difficult moments in our 
Nation's history, there have always been those ready to declare that 
all was lost. Now we hear the voices of those proclaiming that the war 
against Islamic extremists in Iraq is lost. They say they support the 
troops, but the soldier cannot be separated from his mission.

When I consider the Parsons brothers from my congressional district, 
I know that our country has immense resources of courage and 
determination on which to draw. Huber Parsons was with the 101st 
Airborne for two long deployments in Iraq, and is currently on his 
third in Iraq with the Army Stryker Brigade. His twin, Bill, has served 
two tours in Afghanistan and two tours in Iraq. Their little brother, 
Charlie Parsons, is on his first deployment to Iraq. All three are 
serving in Baghdad right now, all three proud graduates of West Point.

Given the sacrifices and bravery of the Parsons brothers and all of 
the men and women serving our Nation in Iraq, we must not put them at 
risk by mandating artificial deadlines for withdrawal and surrender.

The consequences for our troops is a personal one for me. My stepson 
Doug and my daughter-in-law Lindsay both served in Iraq as marine 
fighter pilots, and Lindsay is currently deployed in Afghanistan.



Last time I spoke on the floor, I said Lindsay was about to be 
deployed. Well, she is there now, we are proud of her service. We are 
proud of all of the men and women serving our Nation wearing our 
Nation's uniform.

Imposing an artificial, arbitrary deadline for withdrawal of our 
forces before Iraq is stable and secure will give the insurgents and 
the Islamic terrorists a road map, a how-to guide on how to defeat the 
U.S., our Iraqi partners and other coalition forces in Iraq.

Let's help the Parsons brothers. Let's help all of our troops. Vote 
against the rule and against the conference report.