# CONGRATULATING THE INDIANAPOLIS COLTS FOR WINNING SUPER BOWL XLI
## `d82d4ef16654791fee320ab88e8834fa`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

You know, there are a lot of reasons to thank Tony Dungy and Peyton 
Manning and the whole team for the great victory they had last Sunday. 
I sat in the rain for about 5 hours and watched them, and I didn't feel 
a drop of rain because they did such a great job.

I might have felt a drop of rain in the first part when Devin Hester 
ran 92 yards for the opening kickoff touchdown. It kind of scared 
everybody to death who were Colts fans, but we all had faith in Peyton 
Manning and the Colts, and we knew that they wouldn't give up, 
especially after watching them coming back from the biggest deficit in 
championship history to defeat New England 2 weeks before.

But the reason I want to thank them today is for my Illinois 
colleagues. I want Coach Dungy and Peyton Manning and the whole team to 
know, from my colleagues in Illinois, I want a deep-dish pizza, a pound 
of cheese cake and a bunch of DVDs for our troops over in Iraq. So I 
want to thank them very much for making sure I didn't have to pay for 
all that other stuff, but my colleague on the other side of the aisle 
does.

Let me be serious for just a moment. We are very, very thrilled to 
have a Super Bowl champion in Indianapolis, we waited for a long, long 
time. And it came at a time when we had some of the finest people that 
have ever been on a football team playing in Indianapolis. It came at a 
time when we had one of the finest coaches who ever coached football in 
Indianapolis. And not only is Tony Dungy a great coach, but he is a 
great American and a very patriotic man and a good Christian fellow. 
And everybody in Indianapolis really respects him.

Peyton Manning has been a gentleman on and off the field. The whole 
team has. I can name everybody on the team. And I just want to say, on 
behalf of the Congress, me and Julia Carson, my colleague who 
represents Indianapolis, and Steve Buyer and others, that we are very, 
very proud of the Colts. We hope they bring us another Super Bowl next 
year, but even if they don't, we are very, very thrilled. They have 
done Indianapolis proud, and we are very proud to talk about them here 
today.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

