# CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 70, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE  BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `d837fdc2468cdf223aa0b4493983bc5f`
`Mr. DINGELL — 5 June 2008`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of 2009 Budget 
Conference Report. I know many Members here today shared with me the 
opinion that the President's proposed budget was ''dead on arrival.'' 
This conference agreement upholds that opinion and goes a step further 
by rejecting many of the proposed cuts the President suggested in 
February including his proposal to gut billions of dollars from 
Medicare and Medicaid.

For the last two years the House has held true to its commitment to 
American families by increasing funding for domestic priorities such as 
energy assistance program, state and local law enforcement programs, 
education, among many others. And while it might be hard for this 
administration to grasp, this Congress has proposed increases in 
funding for domestic priorities without increasing our deficit. In 
fact, this conference agreement will balance the budget by 2012 and 
provide a surplus of $22 billion in 2012 and $10 billion in 2013.

What I am most pleased about is the commitment this conference 
agreement makes to areas that are of the most importance to me--
Medicare, Medicaid, education, job-training and Low Income Home Energy 
Assistance Program, among many others.

Our veterans, many of whom have served multiple tours in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, will benefit from this budget through a $3.7 billion 
increase in funding. This is a sharp contrast from what President Bush 
originally proposed--$18 billion in new fees over five years. These men 
and women have served our country honorably and with dedication and 
under no circumstances do they deserve to come home to a fee from our 
government.

This budget agreement also strives to address rising energy costs. 
Just this month gas in Romulus, Michigan, located in the 15th District, 
hit $4 gallon. The ever rising cost of fuel in our country is becoming 
more and more unmanageable for our families. This budget agreement 
increases funding for renewable energy and energy efficiency 
initiatives, while also providing full funding for the Low Income Home 
Energy Assistance Program which has helped numerous families heat their 
homes through the winter and cool their homes during the summer. 
Without a doubt this does not solve our energy problems, however, it 
does help families whose pocketbooks are already stretched thin.

More importantly, this conference report will provide increased 
funding that will help prepare our workers to compete in the global 
marketplace. The America COMPETES Act, which I strongly supported, 
created a commitment to increase training and funding for math and 
science education and research. This legislation upholds that 
commitment. It also increases funding for education that will help to 
address the rising costs of college tuition and the rigorous standards 
of No Child Left Behind. A successful workforce depends on access to 
quality education and this legislation will help our constituents with 
that.

The Democratic budget provides funding that is crucial for job 
creation. As we have seen here at home, our economy is heading towards 
a recession. From 2001-2006 alone, Michigan lost 235,000 jobs, many of 
them high-paying manufacturing jobs. With the rising unemployment rate, 
it is clear that we need to invest in our workers and new industries 
that would promote job creation here at home.

I am again proud to say that this budget proposal will follow through 
on our commitment to expand children's health insurance coverage by 
providing a $50 billion increase to the State Children's Health 
Insurance Program (SCHIP) so that we can provide healthcare to millions 
more children who otherwise would go uninsured. As we all witnessed 
last year, the President vetoed legislation expanding SCHIP on two 
occasions. In my home state of Michigan we have seen the number of 
uninsured increase to one million Michigan residents. Rather than 
making healthcare coverage less accessible, Congress must be doing 
everything it can to ensure that every individual who wants healthcare 
coverage has the means to get it.

The Democratic budget also rejects the proposed $500 billion in cuts 
to Medicare and Medicaid proposed by the President. I have long said 
that this administration neglects our families and his proposal to cut 
funding from two of our most important healthcare programs is ill-
advised. This Congress will not stand for it and this budget will not 
stand for it.

Mr. Speaker, I know that the budget process is never easy; however, I 
stand in support of today's conference report with great pleasure. Not 
only am I pleased that this is the last budget that this Congress will 
work on with this administration, but I am also pleased that once again 
Congress has shown that it will not rubberstamp the priorities of this 
administration.