---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `d83ba39c4408969824e6f406694e21dc`
`Mr. THUNE — 16 November 2007`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I also want to urge my colleagues to pass 
the $70 billion supplemental for the Department of Defense. The 
McConnell alternative is a funding bill that is free of


political posturing, not influenced by armchair generals. The 
Department of Defense needs this money, and they need it now. 
Yesterday, Secretary Geren and General Casey testified before the Armed 
Services Committee on the state of the Army. When I asked Secretary 
Geren about what effect the lack of funding was having on the Army, he 
was frank and clear. The Army will run out of money by February and, 
what is worse, they will have to start scaling back services and 
canceling important civilian contracts. Moreover, when the President 
signed the Defense appropriations bill, it stopped the department's 
funding under the current continuing resolution. Now the Army is being 
forced to borrow from its operations and maintenance accounts in its 
base budget. The Army O&M budget is about $27 billion. Since the Army 
spends about $6.5 billion a month, that money will be gone by February. 
We are forcing our Army to borrow against itself.

General Casey testified that in the December timeframe nine brigades 
are coming back from Iraq, and they may return to find services that 
supported them have been cancelled. Last, when we passed a timely 
supplemental bill, the Army depots were able to reset 27 brigades, 
process 123,000 large vehicles, and 10,000 humvees.

Democrats are always going to paint Iraq as a failure, no matter what 
gains have been made. We need to support our troops and make sure they 
have the funding to do their job.