---
---

# None
## `d83cc2decd5ccb2860f31e61a0252ebd`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor the service of 
Colonel Ricky Crews, U.S. Air Force, who is retiring after 33 years of 
dedicated service to this Nation. A graduate of the University of West 
Florida and Troy State University, Colonel Crews is the Installation 
Inspector General for the 94th Airlift Wing, Dobbins Air Reserve Base, 
GA. Colonel Crews acted as the ''eyes and ears'' of the Wing Commander 
as he identified and corrected problems and coordinated the 
installation Fraud, Waste and Abuse monitoring program.

Colonel Crews enlisted in the Air Force in 1975. He completed basic 
training at Lackland AFB, TX before receiving specialized training at 
Keesler AFB, MS in Signals Intelligence. He performed tours of duty 
with the 6987th Security Group at Shu Lin Kou, AS in Taipei, Taiwan and 
with the 6917th Security Group, at San Vito AS, in Brindisi, Italy. He 
finished his active duty commitment with an assignment as a 
Communications Specialist at Strategic Air Command Headquarters in 
Omaha, NE.

Colonel Crews joined the Air Force Reserve in 1979 at Eglin Air Force 
Base Aux Field 3 (Duke Field), FL as an Airborne Weapons Mechanic, 
flying AC-130A Gunship missions worldwide. Upon his commissioning in 
1983 through Officer Training School, he was assigned back to the 711th 
Special Operations Squadron at Eglin AF Aux Field 3 (Duke Field), FL, 
as a Fire Control Officer. He was responsible for directing and 
controlling the tactical operations of the AC-130A aircraft during both 
training and actual combat operations. In 1988, Colonel Crews moved 
forward in the AC-130A to assume the duties of Mission Navigator. 
During his assignment at Duke Field, Colonel Crews participated in 
several real world contingencies including operations in Panama, Haiti, 
and Iraq.

Colonel Crews' other assignments include: the 911th Airlift Wing, 
Pittsburgh, PA, the 908th Airlift Wing, Assistant Director of 
Operations for the 357th Airlift Squadron, 908th Operations Support 
Flight Commander and the Deputy Commander, 908th Operations Group, Air 
Force Reserve Command in Maxwell AFB, AL, 908th Aeromedical Evacuation 
Support, and the 908th Operations Support Squadron. This assignment 
included recruiting, equipping and training combat aircrews to ensure 
combat readiness to meet all Air Force Reserve and global airlift 
requirements in peace and wartime in support of the Total Force. While 
assigned at Maxwell, Colonel Crews served in both Afghanistan and Iraq 
in support of the Global War on Terror.

A navigator with over 3,500 hours, Colonel Crews has flown global 
close air support and airlift missions including combat missions in 
Iraq, Kuwait and Afghanistan and combat support missions in Panama, 
Haiti, Qatar and Uzbekistan. He completed Air War College in 2004 and 
Air Command and Staff College in 2001.

Madam Speaker, few can match the dedication and professionalism of 
Colonel Ricky Crews. He is a man of honor and a man of principle. On 
behalf of the United States Congress and a grateful Nation, I wish to 
thank Colonel Crews for his years of dedicated service. Vicki and I 
wish him, his wife, Debbie, and their daughter, Alyssa Ivey our best 
wishes for continued success and happiness in the future.
