---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `d83c7834ca7f97201559ba0331c03d24`
`Mr. STARK — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, today is a sad day.

Decades ago, I ran for Congress because I opposed the War in Vietnam. 
After arriving in Washington, I carried out the will of my 
constituents, repeatedly voting to stop funding the death of American 
troops and Vietnamese civilians.

More than 4 years ago, I voted against the original resolution 
authorizing the President to take unprecedented preemptive military 
action against Iraq. In the years since, I have consistently opposed 
the President at every turn, always voting to deny him the funding he 
requested to continue his failed War in Iraq.

Last November, the American people delivered a loud and clear message 
to their representatives in Washington. In electing a Democratic House 
and Senate, the public demanded a new direction in Iraq.

Today, however, we're staying the course.

The supplemental before us includes no deadlines for troop withdrawal 
and no enforceable benchmarks for holding President Bush accountable.

In other words, there is no way I--or the overwhelming majority of my 
constituents--would ever support it.

We can't go on like this, killing our troops and Iraqi civilians--and 
wasting tens of billions of dollars that would be better spent on vital 
domestic priorities like education and health care.

You know who supports this bill? President Bush and Republicans in 
Congress who refuse to acknowledge either the Shiite-Sunni civil war or 
our lack of progress in Iraq.

I strongly urge my colleagues to remember who sent them to 
Washington. It wasn't President Bush; it was America's voters. They've 
made their opposition to this war clear. It's time for Congress to do 
the same.