---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d83d93d3f35a8cf7000a7f91ceefd03d`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 16 February 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, a prominent feature of this debate has been two 
sharply contrasting visions of the future. One vision sees no hope for 
us in Iraq and counsels that we withdraw, just give up. By contrast, 
the other mission focuses on success. We understand what accepting 
defeat means for Iraq.

We understand what accepting defeat means for Iraq, the region and 
our Nation's security interest. We support modifications and strategy 
to address the enemy's changing tactics, and we are committed to 
destroying the enemy before the enemy can destroy us. This success 
policy is rooted in the fabric of the American character, in our belief 
in the ability of our troops to achieve success in Iraq and Afghanistan 
and on all the fronts on this global war against Islamic militant 
jihadists.

The resolution at the center of this debate, Madam Speaker, lacks 
hope. It accepts defeat. It opposes reinforcements for our troops on 
the battlefield, reinforcements that strengthens their capacity to 
confront the enemy and succeed in their mission.

General Petraeus said that he cannot accomplish his mission without 
the deployment of additional U.S. forces. This resolution, however, 
announces that Congress will deny the commander in Iraq the means he 
says he needs to win. This resolution seeks to transform this House 
into 435 generals.

What is the next step in the strategy, Madam Speaker, after the 
crippling of our war effort? We know from statements and bills that 
have been introduced that plans will mandate the nature and the timing 
of a withdrawal by placing limitations on the funding of our efforts. A 
vote for this resolution then is a vote to proceed toward defunding of 
our troops.

Some believe that the impact of these decisions is confined to Iraq, 
but Iraq is only one front in the global war against radical Islamic 
jihadists. This is a war without boundaries. This is a war that poses 
the greatest challenge to our generation.

I will quote al-Zawahiri in his own words. He describes this fight in 
this way:

'' . . . Afghanistan and Iraq are the two most important fields for 
confronting the contemporary Crusader war. Therefore, the Muslim nation 
should support the mujahidin in these two countries with all its 
power.''

Those are al-Zawahiri's own words. He talks about the war in Iraq as 
being central. He added that Iraq ''is the gateway to the liberation of 
Palestine and the restoration of the Islamic Caliphate.''

Iran's leader has echoed similar views. He stated, we will soon 
experience a world without the United States; and he goes on to state, 
we must prepare ourselves to rule the world.

The enemy understands what is at stake. We must, also.

Once the retreat has started, where will it stop? Afghanistan? The 
Persian Gulf? The entire Middle East? Once we have abandoned our allies 
in Iraq, why should anyone in the world believe when we say that we 
draw a line in the sand and say that we will never abandon them.

Lawrence Haas, a former communications director for Vice President 
Gore, stated recently, '' . . . our enemies anticipate that Iraq will 
be the latest chapter in the book of American defeatism. Our withdrawal 
will embolden them to push ahead, confident that we


lack the stomach for confrontation, that our commitments mean nothing, 
that they can win simply by outlasting us.''

A withdrawal in this generational fight will ensure that what is to 
come will be even worse. While urging a withdrawal, some state that 
they support the troops. But as leaders of the American Legion and the 
Veterans for Foreign Wars have stated, you cannot separate the warrior 
from the war.

My stepson, Douglas Lehtinen, and his wife, Lindsay, proudly served 
as Marine pilots in Iraq. Lindsay will soon leave for a tour in 
Afghanistan. Far from seeing their mission as hopeless, far from urging 
withdrawal, they and their fellow service men and women are committed 
to victory. They are so confident in that success that they are willing 
to risk their lives to secure it.



They would tell you that victory can never be ensured but that we can 
make defeat inevitable by giving our consent. The hopelessness from 
which this resolution springs is alien to our American spirit and it 
runs contrary to our history. What Thomas Paine said over two centuries 
ago stands still today: These are the times that try men's souls. The 
summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will in this crisis shrink from 
the service of their country. But he that stands by it now deserve the 
love and the thanks of every man and woman. Tyranny, like hell, is not 
easily conquered. Yet we have this consolation with us, that the harder 
the conflict, the more glorious the triumph.

If you like the status quo in Iraq, Madam Speaker, then you vote 
''yes'' on this resolution. If you favor a mission of success in 
defeating the Islamic militant jihadists who are our enemies, then 
please vote ''no'' on this resolution.