# RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 11 AS A DAY OF REMEMBRANCE
## `d8464e2970da399451930a0aefd74bb0`
`Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

This resolution appropriately summons us to reaffirm the sense of 
urgency forged in the crumbling inferno of the Twin Towers, the 
Pentagon and that field in Pennsylvania. Today we fulfill our duty to 
remember, to honor the memory of the 2,996 martyrs who gave their lives 
in the earliest day of protracted struggle against godless extremism.

This resolution reminds us that we are at war and no political 
difference or debate can detract from the heroic work done every day by 
the men and women of America's military. The 184 people who gave their 
lives at the Pentagon 5 years ago fought on an unexpected battlefield, 
but toiled until the end in loyal service to the national ideals of 
liberty and justice. A vote for this resolution confirms our eternal 
debt of honor to all those who fight to defend America and advance 
freedom.

On 9/11, America's first responders got a bitter taste of the 
unwelcome battle brought to our shores. But their valor and grit 
carried us all through that day and those that followed. In this 
resolution, we also honor and support the work of the public safety and 
public health professionals who work every day to protect us from 
terrorist attacks. Between 9/11 observances, however, distance from the 
tragedy of 9/11 seems to have allowed some politics to seep in to what 
should be wholly nonpartisan discussions of profound national security 
issues.



With each passing year, what looked hugely urgent after 9/11 tends to 
get smaller in the viewfinder as more current problems loom larger. 
While we lose sight of the threat, an enemy who relentlessly worked to 
transform airplanes into guided missiles is maniacally focused on other 
ways to harm us. Rather than using the lengthening historical horizon 
to elevate our perspective, we have also allowed the debate over the 
next step in Iraq to draw us deep into the political weeds.

As a Nation with global responsibilities, we need to climb out of the 
domestic political trenches and reclaim the high ground so dearly 
purchased 6 years ago. We do the victims of 9/11 a great disservice if 
we do not take bipartisan steps toward regaining a fair, far more 
strategic perspective.

While Iraq is undeniably an element of our post-9/11 security 
equation, we cannot let that effort obscure our view of the emerging 
threats to peace: an emboldened, nuclear Iran, a resurgent Taliban, a 
divided Palestinian Government, and our continued dependence on foreign 
oil as our economic lifeblood.

It is more than luck there hasn't been another major attack since 
2001. Given the proven strength of our ideals and the moral bankruptcy 
of these who exalt death over life, defeat in this war can only be 
self-inflicted. Only if we lose patience, only if we lose faith in the 
universality of the yearning for freedom, only if we fail to honor the 
sacrifices of our countrymen, from Bunker Hill to the Twin Towers, can 
the purveyors of death prevail over the forces of life.

As in the almost 50-year cold war against Soviet Communism, our post-
9/11 reality has to be defined by a vigilance and a willingness to use 
all of the instruments of national power, not just the military, to 
advance the cause of human freedom. That is one lesson of 
9/11. Written in innocent blood, it is a lesson we can never forget.

Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.