---
---

# CONGRESS CALLS FOR COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF LANDMINE POLICY
## `d84838a76dccaf79b90637ff55b7bd82`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 18 May 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, today 68 members of the United States 
Senate sent a bipartisan letter to President Obama calling for a 
comprehensive review of the U.S. policy on anti-personnel landmines, 
urging the Administration to identify any obstacles to joining the 
Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and 
Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and Their Destruction. I am proud to 
say that 57 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives also sent a 
bipartisan letter to the President in support of their Senate 
colleagues.

Mr. Speaker, the United States has not exported anti-personnel mines 
since 1992; it has not produced anti-personnel landmines since 1997; 
and it has not used anti-personnel landmines since 1991. During the 
past decade, the United States has become the world's largest 
contributor to humanitarian demining and rehabilitation programs for 
landmine survivors. I firmly believe that it's time for the United 
States to formally join the 158 nations of the world who are parties to 
Convention banning anti-personnel landmines so that we can receive the 
credit for which our nation is long overdue and restore our leadership 
in shaping the Convention in the future.

I know that there are military questions that require review so that 
all sectors of our government are united in joining the Convention. I 
believe there are answers to these questions, answers that our NATO 
allies and other nations have confronted and overcome over the past 
decade as they complied with Convention's requirements. There is a 
wealth of experience and knowledge among our NATO allies, all of whom 
are parties to this Treaty, on adopting new military strategies and 
tactics, working with non-Treaty States, and identifying alternative 
weaponry as we abandon, once and for all, this indiscriminate, rogue 
weapon. I encourage our military leaders to reach out to our NATO 
partners and consult with their military counterparts on how they 
adapted and complied with the Landmine Ban Treaty.

Mr. Speaker, I have seen first-hand the results of anti-personnel 
landmines on civilians and soldiers in El Salvador and Colombia. I have 
talked with survivors from around the globe, including men and women 
who proudly wear the U.S. military uniform. I have met with landmine 
survivors, including children, who were only working their fields or 
walking to school when they stepped on a landmine. They are not 
victims, Mr. Speaker--they are survivors and leaders in a global 
movement to ban this weapon from all current and future arsenals. They 
are clear-eyed, sophisticated individuals who are determined that no 
one--in uniform or civilian--shall ever be harmed again by these 
weapons.

I believe, Mr. Speaker, that it is in our best national and security 
interests to join the Convention. Clearly, the bipartisan letter by our 
Senate colleagues and the supporting House letter show that the time 
has come for the United States to once again take up its leadership on 
this international issue. I ask unanimous consent to enter the House 
and Senate letters and related materials into the Congressional Record.



























U.S. Senate,



















 Washington, DC, May 18, 2010.


 Hon. Barack Obama,


 The White House,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to convey our strong 


 support for the Administration's decision to conduct a 


 comprehensive review of United States policy on landmines. 


 The Second Review Conference of the Convention on the 


 Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer 


 of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, held last 


 December in Cartagena, Colombia, makes this review 


 particularly timely. It is also consistent with your 


 commitment to reaffirm U.S. leadership in solving global 


 problems and with your remarks in Oslo when you accepted the 


 Nobel Peace Prize: ''I am convinced that adhering to 


 standards, international standards, strengthens those who do, 


 and isolates and weakens those who don't.''



 These indiscriminate weapons are triggered by the victim, 


 and even those that are designed to self-destruct after a 


 period of time (so-called ''smart'' mines) pose a risk of 


 being triggered by U.S. forces or civilians, such as a farmer 


 working in the fields or a young child. It is our 


 understanding that the United States has not exported anti-


 personnel mines since 1992, has not produced anti-personnel 


 mines since 1997, and has not used anti-personnel mines since 


 1991. We are also proud that the United States is the world's 


 largest contributor to humanitarian demining and 


 rehabilitation programs for landmine survivors.



 In the ten years since the Convention came into force, 158 


 nations have signed including the United Kingdom and other 


 ISAF partners, as well as Iraq and Afghanistan which, like 


 Colombia, are parties to the Convention and have suffered 


 thousands of mine casualties. The Convention has led to a 


 dramatic decline in the use, production, and export of anti-


 personnel mines.



 We note that our NATO allies have addressed their force 


 protection needs in accordance with their obligations under 


 the Convention. We are also mindful that anti-personnel mines 


 pose grave dangers to civilians, and that avoiding civilian 


 casualties and the anger and resentment that result has 


 become a key priority in building public support for our 


 mission in Afghanistan. Finally,




 we are aware that antipersonnel mines in the Korean DMZ are 


 South Korean mines, and that the U.S. has alternative 


 munitions that are not victim-activated.



 We believe the Administration's review should include 


 consultations with the Departments of Defense and State as 


 well as retired senior U.S. military officers and diplomats, 


 allies such as Canada and the United Kingdom that played a 


 key role in the negotiations on the Convention, Members of 


 Congress, the International Committee of the Red Cross, and 


 other experts on landmines, humanitarian law and arms 


 control.



 We are confident that through a thorough, deliberative 


 review the Administration can identify any obstacles to 


 joining the Convention and develop a plan to overcome them as 


 soon as possible.





 Sincerely,




 Patrick J. Leahy; Richard G. Lugar; Jack Reed; Daniel K. 





 Inouye; Olympia J. Snowe; Joseph I. Lieberman; George 





 V. Voinovich; John F. Kerry; Orrin G. Hatch; Carl 





 Levin; Charles E. Schumer; Robert F. Bennett; Jeff 





 Bingaman; Susan M. Collins; Max Baucus; Judd Gregg; 





 Arlen Specter; Sheldon Whitehouse; Harry Reid; Benjamin 





 L. Cardin; Dianne Feinstein; Ben Nelson; Lisa 





 Murkowski; Robert Menendez; Barbara A. Mikulski; 





 Christopher J. Dodd; Sherrod Brown; Kent Conrad; Mike 





 Crapo; Richard Durbin; Ron Wyden; Byron L. Dorgan; Evan 





 Bayh; Michael F. Bennet; Russell D. Feingold; Maria 





 Cantwell; Bill Nelson; Patty Murray; Blanche L. 





 Lincoln; Mark R. Warner; George S. Lemieux; Mary L. 





 Landrieu; Tim Johnson; Thomas R. Carper; Herb Kohl; 





 Robert C. Byrd; Jon Tester; Edward E. Kaufman; Mark L. 





 Pryor; Tom Udall; Claire McCaskill; Mark Udall; Kirsten 





 E. Gillibrand; Frank R. Lautenberg; John D. 





 Rockefeller, IV; Daniel K. Akaka; Kay R. Hagan; Jeanne 





 Shaheen; Al Franken; Jeff Merkley; Debbie Stabenow; 





 Mark Begich; Tom Harkin; Roland W. Burris; Robert P. 





 Casey, Jr.; Amy Klobuchar; Barbara Boxer; Bernard 





 Sanders.