---
---

# RESPECTING FAITH OF MILITARY CHAPLAINS
## `d84d5d214a5b6cea5ea75337fbca5904`
`Mr. JONES — 24 September 2009`

---


Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, this year, I introduced H.R. 268, a bill to 
make sure that our military chaplains of all faiths and religions are 
able to close a prayer in any way they see fit.

America was built on religious freedom, and that is why I am truly 
disturbed by a letter that was sent to Secretary Gates from the Freedom 
from Religion Foundation. This organization has taken exception to the 
fact that while speaking on the anniversary of D-day in France, U.S. 
Military Chaplain Thomas MacGregor closed a prayer in the name of Jesus 
Christ. This is just another example of how this country's Judeo-
Christian values have been under assault.

As I think my colleagues know, I am a man that respects all faiths, 
whether it be Christian, Jewish, Muslim, and I would be just as upset 
if a chaplain from a non-Christian religion came under the same attack. 
I respect the rights of nonbelievers just as I respect the rights of 
believers.

It is a sad day in America when a military chaplain is criticized for 
closing his prayer in a way that is true to his faith.

In closing, with our young men and women fighting for religious 
freedom for people overseas, it is our duty to protect our own military 
chaplains and respect the faith of each of them.

Mr. Speaker, before I close, I do this frequently on the floor of the 
House because my heart aches for those over in Afghanistan and Iraq. I 
ask God to please bless our men and women in uniform. I ask God to 
please bless the families of our men and women in uniform. I ask God, 
in His loving arms, to hold the families who have given a child dying 
for freedom in Afghanistan and Iraq. And I ask God to please bless the 
President of the United States with wisdom, strength and courage to do 
what is right for America. And I close three times, God please, God 
please, God please continue to bless America.
