---
---

# TOUCHING THE FACE OF GRACE
## `d84f41c021682a1f3832a40fc59d621a`
`Mr. WOLF — 16 September 2008`

---


Mr. WOLF. Madam Speaker, I would like to call to the attention of the 
House an article written by my constituent, Mitchell L. Hubbard of 
Winchester, Virginia, about his son's experience while deployed to 
Iraq. His son's story should make us all think about our armed forces, 
as well as the police and first responders, who risk so much to serve 
us every day.

 Touching the ''Face of Grace'': Do We Have the Ability, or Desire, To 









 See our Soldiers in the Same Way?













(By Mitchell L. Hubbard)




 Whatever your political take on the war in Iraq, nothing 


 can alter it more than having a loved one in the midst of it. 


 Nor is anyone's current perspective balanced until they hear 


 at least some things from a soldier's point of view.



 My wife and I learned these truths when our son--a 2004 


 Handley graduate--decided to join the Army in 2006. His 


 reasoning was simple: He wasn't comfortable knowing that 


 thousands of others his age were sacrificing their own 


 freedoms to protect his. When he signed up to join those 


 thousands, it changed our perspective as well.



 Up to that point, it had always been other peoples' sons 


 and daughters doing the fighting. Now it would be our own 


 child. Naturally, no one wants their child to volunteer to go 


 in harm's way for freedom's sake. It was something of a 


 conviction, though, when my wife and I had to ask ourselves 


 why it shouldn't be our own son in the Middle East, why we 


 should be spared the rituals of anxiety, prayer, hope, and 


 waiting that tens of thousands of other families over here 


 have already endured.



 In early June, we flew to Fort Hood, Texas, to see our son 


 deploy for a 15-month tour in Iraq. Again, one's perspective 


 is limited until one attends a deploying ceremony for a unit 


 of soldiers. Spouses, children, parents, siblings, and 


 friends, all crowding a gym, all clinging closely to their 


 treasures-in-uniform, accompanied by flags, prayers, cheers, 


 and tears. Our son had joined a ''Band of Brothers.'' My 


 wife and I had joined the ''Band of Others,'' who would be 


 waiting at home. Both those going, and those left behind, 


 carry the War on Terror in a personal way.



 Still, those of us left behind need to see something of 


 what our soldiers see, and not only what is offered us in the 


 news. To that end, here is one story our son, Luke, shared 


 with us by phone, that must be shared with anyone who claims 


 an interest in what our soldiers are doing in the Middle 


 East.



 Stationed outside a city on the Tigris River, Luke had 


 accompanied his colonel into town as part of a security team, 


 while the colonel spoke with a local sheik. While standing 


 guard, Luke noticed a woman approaching from behind, and 


 cautiously turned in her direction, his rifle at the ready.



 An interpreter told our son it was OK--the woman just 


 wanted to touch a soldier. Still uneasy, Luke stood still 


 while the woman reached out her hand and touched his face, 


 tears in her eyes.



 Looking to the interpreter for meaning, our son was told: 


 The woman had simply ''wanted to touch the face of grace.'' 


 It seems this trembling woman, like most of the people in her 


 town, looked upon our soldiers as angels of grace, sent by 


 God to protect her from the violence and oppression her 


 people had come to know up to then. Learning this, our son 


 squeezed and kissed the woman's hand, and she left, weeping.



 The ''Face of Grace.'' How many of us, safe at home 


 debating the politics of the War on Terror, have ever seen 


 our soldiers in such a light? How many of us have ever even 


 read such an uplifting newspaper account of our soldiers?



 To be sure, our soldiers are not virtuous simply by being 


 soldiers. At home in their ''civvies,'' they are as unangelic 


 as the rest of us. Yet when they voluntarily get into ''full 


 battle rattle'' (as they call their battle gear) in a hot and 


 hostile land, their job is both protective and sacrificial--


 as angelic a purpose as humans can take on. People like this 


 woman, having suffered years of oppression and fear, have 


 eyes and a heart to see this, and to desire to ''touch the 


 Face of Grace.'' Do we have the ability to see our soldiers 


 in the same way?



 And not merely our soldiers: Can we see the ''Face of 


 Grace'' in the police who protect us in every town, day and 


 night? Or in the fire and rescue teams who are soldiers in 


 their own right?



 My wife and I obviously pray that our son and his ''Band of 


 Brothers'' will come safely home to their personal ''Band of 


 Others.'' After listening to our son's experience, though, we 


 have added the prayer that Americans in every community will 


 be given the eyes and heart to see the ''Face of Grace'' in 


 all who protect our lives and freedoms--especially in 


 soldiers like our son.
