# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `d861c425994f30858fe76ffd769f32c7`
`Mr. DORGAN — 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, my understanding is that we have a 2 
o'clock vote on this amendment. This amendment is one Senator Conrad 
and I had offered on the Defense authorization bill. That bill, as you 
know, is no longer on the floor of the Senate. So we offer it now to 
this legislation. Just as my colleague from Louisiana has previously 
offered an amendment with respect to the objective and the priority of 
eliminating the leadership of al-Qaida, this amendment we offered about 
2 weeks ago would do two things: increase the reward for Osama bin 
Laden and the leaders of al-Qaida; No. 2, and most important, it would 
require quarterly top-secret classified briefings to this Congress 
every quarter about what is or is not being done to bring to justice, 
to capture, or kill the leadership of al-Qaida.

Why do we want to do this? It has been nearly 6 years since thousands 
of Americans were murdered--innocent Americans murdered by Osama bin 
Laden and al-Qaida. They boasted about engineering the murder of 
innocent Americans.

Here is what last week's National Intelligence Estimate says:




 Al-Qaida is and will remain the most serious terrorist 


 threat to the homeland.


That doesn't need much interpretation. The most serious threat to our 
homeland is al-Qaida.




 We assess the group has protected or regenerated key 


 elements of its homeland attack capability, including a safe 


 haven in the Pakistan federally administered tribal areas, 


 operational lieutenants, and its top leadership.


Does anybody in this country believe there ought to be a safe haven 
on this


planet for those who boasted about murdering thousands of innocent 
Americans? Does anybody believe there ought to be secure hideaways or a 
safe haven for the leadership of al-Qaida that, today, in the mountains 
somewhere, are planning attacks against this country?


Why, after 6 years, are we not successful in bringing to justice and 
limiting the leadership of al-Qaida? It is not as if we don't know all 
of this.

This is in June:




 Al-Qaida regroups in new sanctuary on the Pakistan border.



 While the U.S. presses on in its war against insurgents 


 linked to al-Qaida in Iraq, bin Laden's group is recruiting, 


 regrouping, and rebuilding in a new sanctuary. . . .


This is from the New York Times in February:




 Terror officials see al-Qaida chiefs regaining power.



 Senior leaders from al-Qaida are operating from Pakistan 


 near the Afghan border, according to American intelligence 


 and counterterrorism officials.


How much more do we need to understand? We have soldiers in Iraq 
going door to door in Baghdad in the middle of a civil war, where Sunni 
and Shia are killing each other and Sunni and Shia are both killing 
American soldiers. In the middle of a civil war, we have soldiers going 
door to door in Baghdad and, in the meantime, we have al-Qaida building 
training camps in a secure hideaway between Pakistan and Afghanistan. 
And today, this afternoon, they are planning additional attacks against 
our country. That is unbelievable to me.

Mr. President, in August 2001, the Presidential daily briefing given 
to this President said the following:




 Bin Laden Determined to Strike in the U.S.


That was the title. Nearly 6 years later, we now have intelligence 
assessments with this title:




 Al-Qaida better positioned to strike the West.


That is what I call failure.

We must succeed. That is why we ask with this amendment for quarterly 
classified top-secret briefings to this Congress to tell us what they 
are doing or what they are not doing to bring to justice and to 
eliminate the leadership of al-Qaida. It is unbelievable to me that 
Osama bin Laden, who boasted of attacking this country, now apparently 
is in a secure hideaway or a safe haven. Nowhere on this small planet 
should there be somewhere safe for the leader of the organization or 
the leadership of the organization that launched the attack on this 
country in 2001. It is unbelievable to me that we are in this 
situation.

Now, the President said this when asked about it:




 I don't know where bin Laden is. I have no idea and really 


 don't care. It is not that important and it is not our 


 priority.


Those are the words of President Bush.

Let me read the words of the National Intelligence Estimate of last 
week that came out from this administration:




 Al-Qaida is and will remain the most serious terrorist 


 threat to the homeland.


Maybe we ought to modify that statement of the President because it 
ought to be our priority. That is what this amendment is about. It 
should have been our priority 4 years ago, 5 years ago. It ought to be 
our priority today. I know of no more important priority for this 
country than dealing with the leadership of al-Qaida and eliminating 
the greatest political threat and the most serious terrorist threat to 
our homeland. That is what our amendment does.

I hope the Senate will once again agree to this amendment and 
establish this as a preeminent priority for this country.

Mr. President, how much time remains?