# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `d864c1b5295623760a573e1b76d63c3e`
`Ms. DeGETTE — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2956, the 
''Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act.''

This legislation mandates that we begin withdrawing our troops from 
Iraq within 120 days of enactment. This redeployment would have to be 
completed by April 2008. This is a commonsense measure to bring an end 
to our military involvement in Iraq. Frankly it is mindboggling that 
American troops are still fighting there in the first place.

For over 4 years we have worked to establish a secure, safe, and 
peaceful democracy in Iraq. Our military has done a valiant job in 
doing everything we asked of it. We have lost over 3,600 soldiers and 
more than 26,000 have been wounded in this effort. We have spent about 
$450 billion. Unfortunately, death and destruction still reign in Iraq.

President George W. Bush's plan is not working and the evidence of 
failure is mounting. President Bush announced his troop


''surge'' 6 months ago. During that time about 600 troops have been 
killed, 3,000 have been wounded, and $60 billion has been spent. The 
recently released White House interim report shows there to have been 
unsatisfactory progress by the Iraqi government in meeting many of the 
benchmarks laid out by President Bush back in January.

With respect to President Bush's political benchmarks, the Iraqi 
government has made unsatisfactory progress on all of them. What this 
Iraqi civil war requires is an Iraqi political compromise, but the 
available evidence suggests that no one within the government is 
willing to make the sacrifices needed to make that happen. Why should 
American soldiers continue to sacrifice under such circumstances? Not 
one more drop of American blood should be shed in pursuit of President 
Bush's failed Iraq policy.

The American people agree. Recent polling shows that over 60 percent 
of the American people now believe sending troops to Iraq was a mistake 
and 71 percent support withdrawing our forces by April 2008, just as 
H.R. 2956 would require.

Despite the views of the American public and the clear evidence on 
the ground that our continued military presence in Iraq is not the 
solution, President Bush stubbornly refuses to change course and bring 
our troops home. Congress has the power and obligation to do what is 
right and force a new policy. Passing H.R. 2956 is the first step on 
that road, and I encourage all of my colleagues to vote in favor of 
this reasoned legislation.