---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `d8685d22af05a4f236e2d43678ddca38`
`Mr. SPACE — 11 December 2007`

---


Mr. SPACE. I thank my friend from Arkansas.

Madam Speaker, I am honored to be a part of this group that places 
such a high priority on fiscal responsibility, the Blue Dogs.

I really believe that we live in a crossroads of history and that 
there are several seminal issues of our day that in and of themselves 
would be considered the seminal issue of virtually any other era, 
whether you're talking about the war in Iraq, the war on terror, the 
challenges posed by globalization, the challenges facing our 
environment, all very important issues, and indeed, seminal. But yet 
another seminal issue, one which is much more insidious and not so 
readily identifiable, but nonetheless serious, is that posed by our 
national debt. $9.17 trillion, a number that by any account is 
virtually incomprehensible; $236 billion a year being paid in interest 
on that debt. I have not done the math, but I suspect that if you broke 
that


down for every one of the 435 congressional districts in our country, 
you would find that each Member of Congress, each congressional 
district could use several hundred million dollars a year from that 
figure to build roads, repair bridges, cure diseases, educate children 
and do the kinds of things that make us a strong Nation.

This debt is sapping us of vital resources, and it is, in the words 
of my colleague earlier today, the gentleman from Tennessee, one of our 
leaders, John Tanner, making us a weaker Nation.

PAYGO, a simple concept, one that, again, my colleague from Tennessee 
referenced as something we expect of our government in the same way 
that we expect it from our families, live within our means. The 
alternative minimum tax is poised to draw in 23 million Americans who 
were never intended to be the victims of that tax. We need to fix it. 
We must fix it. This House has voted to fix it in a fiscally 
responsible way, in a way that is paid for.

Now, the Blue Dogs stand for the proposition that we stand behind 
that and that we don't irresponsibly fix the tax, we do it in a 
responsible fashion. Back home in Ohio's 18th District, in towns like 
Chillicothe and Zanesville and New Philadelphia, Ohio, we can't 
understand what $9.1 trillion is. I certainly don't get it. It's 
incomprehensible. But we do understand the need, the pressing need of 
this Nation to once again engage in fiscal responsibility, acting in a 
way that we expect our citizens to act.

And with that, I am very proud to be a member of this organization 
and will continue to stand behind that basic and fundamental principle 
of fiscal responsibility.

