---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `d869e9881fcf7987e2199a9cefd756d5`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 16 September 2010`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I rise again to honor our Nation's great 
Federal employees and, in particular, to celebrate this year's Service 
to America Medal winners. These are the employees we recognized in the 
111st Congress.

Last night, winners of eight awards were announced by the Partnership 
for Public Service, a wonderful leading nonprofit, nonpartisan 
organization. One year ago, when I rose from this desk to pay tribute 
to the 2009 winners, I spoke about the values Federal employees embody: 
citizenship, hard work, a willingness to take risks, perseverance, 
intellect, and humility. All nine of this year's awardees exemplify 
these qualities.

One important value all of this year's winners share is concern for 
others. Whether rescuing Haitian orphans from a deadly earthquake, 
fighting against trafficking of minors, or helping Native Americans get 
access to Social Security benefits, this year's medalists have 
dedicated their careers and their talents to helping others. They do it 
for less pay--yes, less pay--and often longer hours than at jobs they 
could have taken in the private sector. If they receive a large 
compensation, it is in the form of the satisfaction that their lives 
are serving a meaningful purpose in service to their Nation.

This year's Federal Employee of the Year Medal was awarded to a 
Citizenship and Immigration Services officer who helped expedite the 
adoption of more than 1,100--that is 1,100--orphans in the wake of 
Haiti's devastating earthquake in January. Pius Bannis was the only 
American immigration official in the country working on adoption in the 
first weeks following the quake. He got right to work organizing 
temporary daycare in our Embassy and ensuring the provision of 
emergency supplies to Haitian orphanages, including diapers, food, 
water, and clean clothes.

Pius, in the midst of this Herculean effort, also had to cope with 
the loss of Embassy staff and their family members.

A naturalized immigrant to the United States himself, he knows 
firsthand the complexities of the immigration process, which makes him 
an outstanding CIS officer.

A resource conservation expert at the Environmental Protection 
Agency, Saskia van Gendt won this year's Call to Service Medal for her 
work on fostering green building technologies. Millions of tons of 
materials used in construction are disposed of each year in landfills--
a third of our Nation's total solid waste. At the EPA, Saskia has 
created an innovative program to help spur a green revolution in 
construction materials. In 2007, she developed the Lifecycle Building 
Challenge. This annual competition engages architects, students, and 
builders to develop new designs that reduce the impact of buildings on 
the environment. Since 2008, Saskia has been working with the StopWaste 
grant program to encourage businesses to adopt environmentally friendly 
equipment. The Call to Service Medal that she won recognizes those who 
have achieved early in their federal careers. Saskia is just 28 years 
old.

Honoring those who have spent many years in Federal Government, the 
Career Achievement Medal was won this year by Susan Solomon, a senior 
scientist in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's 
Earth System Research Laboratory in Boulder, Colorado. In her nearly 30 
years as a government employee, Susan has been at the forefront of 
pioneering research into the hole in the Earth's ozone layer. Her 
research was critical in determining how certain consumer and 
industrial gases were affecting the ozone, which helped spur the 
landmark 1987 Montreal Protocol. Last year, Susan led a groundbreaking 
study that showed how the effects of carbon pollution, such as altered 
temperatures and changes in sea level, can linger for over a thousand 
years.

This year's Citizens Services Medal was awarded to a pair of 
officials also from Colorado. Shane Kelley and Eva Ristow work in the 
Denver office of the Social Security Administration. They won for their 
work to expand access to Social Security benefits for those living in 
impoverished and rural areas using an online two-way video service. For 
years, the SSA has had difficulties reaching those living in remote 
areas of the West, in particular Native Americans living on 
reservations. As a result, many do not know they are eligible to 
receive Social Security benefits that could drastically improve their 
families' standard of living. Shane and Eva developed an innovative 
Internet-based video teleconferencing system to help connect these 
rural communities to Social Security representatives in Denver. For 
those whose annual incomes can be as low as $3,000, this new connection 
to the SSA--thanks to Shane and Eva--has had a gigantic impact.

As Deputy Director of Intelligence and Security and Chief of 
Innovative Technology for the Navy's Joint Interagency Task Force 
South, Sandra Brooks won this year's Homeland Security Medal. Drug 
smugglers are constantly seeking new ways to evade our border security 
and customs checks. Sandy is one of the highly dedicated Federal 
employees working to keep one step ahead of them. Her role is to 
analyze information from a stream of sources and make sure it is shared 
quickly with the military, law enforcement, and homeland security 
agencies in the field. Sandy's efforts have directly led to the capture 
of over 20 submersible vehicles used to bring illegal drugs into our 
country. Her work is breaking down barriers that in the past have 
prevented security agencies from sharing information.

This year's Justice and Law Enforcement Medal was won by Jamie 
Konstas at the Federal Bureau of Investigation. An intelligence 
analyst, Jamie helped


create a national online database used in investigations into the 
trafficking of minors for sex. Before this database was created, local 
law enforcement officials had few resources to track child victims or 
information on suspects after they had crossed state lines. Jamie's 
role is to spot connections and cross-reference clues to break cases 
wide open. Her tireless efforts have led to the prosecution of over 500 
child predators.

The winner of this year's National Security and International Affairs 
Medal led a U.S. Army team at Fort Detrick, MD, that developed a new 
kind of medical kit to help troops wounded by roadside bombs. In Iraq 
and Afghanistan, improvised explosive devices--or ''IEDs''--have been 
used to target our soldiers and have caused many casualties. Teri Glass 
and her team created a unique medical evaluation kit that has allowed 
medics in the field to transport wounded troops more safely and 
efficiently to hospitals. This has significantly raised the survival 
rate for soldiers wounded by IEDs. The kit Teri and her team developed 
can convert a range of non-ambulance vehicles into medical evacuation 
vehicles in less than a minute, using a foldable litter, a rear-facing 
attendant seat, and a lift system. When not in use, all of it collapses 
into a portable container the size of a suitcase and can fit in the 
back of a vehicle. Commanders in the field have credited this device as 
saving the lives of countless servicemembers.

Last, but certainly not least, the Science and Environment Medal for 
2010 was awarded to the Department of Energy's Jeffrey Baker. As the 
Director of the Office of Laboratory Operations at the Department's 
field office in Golden, CO, Jeffrey has been the driving force behind 
the design and construction of the largest net-zero energy office 
building in the world. This means that the building generates as much 
or more energy than it consumes. Planning for the Research Support 
Facility began in the 1990s, when Jeffrey had a vision for a building 
that would not only house the Department's laboratories but also serve 
as an example of energy-efficiency. He oversaw the design process and 
construction, and the building was completed on time and on budget. 
Today, the General Services Administration is planning to replicate 
Jeffrey's approach for new federal buildings across the Nation.

All nine of these men and women are excellent examples of what 
government does right. They deserve our thanks and recognition. So do 
the 23 other finalists, as well as the thousands upon thousands of 
Federal employees who achieved great things this year as well.

I was proud to serve on this year's Service to America Medals 
Selection Committee--a blue ribbon panel that included my colleagues 
Senator Carper and Senator Voinovich as well as leaders from across the 
nonprofit and business sectors and members of the House of 
Representatives.

I hope all of my colleagues--and all Americans--will join me in 
congratulating the 2010 Service to America medalists and thanking them 
for their hard work on our behalf.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.