# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `d872d2e78bd2ae7dfd3140784ee3bd2a`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I thank my colleague. The factual basis 
that this follows--I wish to thank him and I wish to indicate to my 
colleague from Virginia the exact background. I first saw the 
amendment, prepared by, I believe, Senator McCain and Senator Graham, 
yesterday when it was circulated to the members of the Armed Services 
Committee. At that time, I promptly suggested a change in the amendment 
or, more specifically, an addition that a waiver be put in. I suggested 
the President. The draft now has the Secretary of Defense.

I say to my good friend--and, indeed, Senator Webb and I share a very 
strong bond of friendship. It actually goes back over 30 years, when I 
was in the Navy Secretariat. Senator Webb, at that time, a young--still 
young but anyway a bit younger--Marine captain who, fortunately for me 
and others in the Secretariat, was assigned to our staff. He had just 
finished his tour in Vietnam, where he displayed a measure of courage 
few in uniform in the history of our country can equal. For that he 
received our Nation's second highest decoration.

I stand in awe of his military career. My modest career pales in 
comparison to his. Nevertheless, we did form at that time a friendship 
and resumed it once he came here.

I would like to also say, Senator Webb and I were both privileged to 
serve as Secretaries of the U.S. Navy. As I look back on the good 
fortune I have had in life, that was a chapter--5 years, 4 months, 3 
days as Secretary of the Navy--that I cherish as the very foundation 
for whatever I have achieved thereafter in life. It was the 
association, the learning I had from men and women of the Armed Forces, 
that gave me a certain sense of confidence and inner strength that has 
enabled me to go on and do other things, most humbly, I say, to serve 
Virginia for now my 29th year in this chamber.

I have come to know Senator Webb, of course, in the perspective of 
being a Senator. I said to others that he possesses the intellectual 
ability, the sincerity, the feeling about people to make him a great 
Senator. His career is before him; my career is behind me. When I leave 
some 14 months from now, having finished 30 years in the Senate, I 
leave with a sense of confidence that this fine young Senator will 
represent Virginia well, and they can take righteous pride in his 
leadership.

But the amendment by Senator Graham is one I somewhat disagree with 
my colleague on. It embraces the principles he put forth in his 
amendment, principles which led me to join him when he first laid down 
his amendment and vote for that amendment. So the question arises: Why, 
at this point in time, would I go into a very intense deliberative 
process of reconsidering that process? I will enumerate those reasons.

But I wish to go back again to the service we both had as Secretary 
of the Navy. It was the management of a force of men and women in 
uniform. During my period, it was somewhat larger in number than when 
Senator Webb was Secretary of the Navy. But nevertheless, we both 
learned the difficulty, the challenges of managing under the all-
volunteer force the men and women of our Armed Forces.

One of the reasons I joined my good friend was the all-volunteer 
force. I was in the Department of Defense, as I stated, from 1969 
through 1974, serving under three Secretaries of Defense, Melvin Laird 
being the first. He had the concept of going to the all-volunteer 
force. That concept was not by any means readily accepted. There was 
considerable and, I think, justified doubt among the uniform ranks at 
that time, in the White House, and elsewhere, that this daring concept, 
this unique concept would be able to adequately serve America, given 
the troubled world, not only at the time of Vietnam but subsequently 
and particularly at that time in the midst of the Cold War when the 
Soviet Union, in many respects, had challenged us potentially in terms 
of their military prowess. Nevertheless, in the wisdom of the executive 
branch, we went forward, and the Congress subsequently endorsed it.

Senator Webb's amendment, I say without any equivocation, is designed 
to help protect the concept of the all-volunteer force. It was for that 
reason that I joined him because I felt, having been in the Department 
of Defense at the period of time when the formative stages of that 
concept were developed, I had a stake in it.

I have said many times on this floor it is a national treasure that 
the members of today's Armed Forces, every one of them, are men and 
women who have raised their hands and volunteered. They were not 
subjected, as


previous generations had been, to a draft and compelled to go into 
uniform. They were there, every one of them, because they wanted to be 
there, they wanted to be a part of the Armed Forces that would protect 
our country.

If we add up all the men and women in the Armed Forces today and 
include the very valuable Reserve and Guard--because the Reserve and 
Guard are as much a part of our defense structure, more so than they 
have ever been--and how magnificently the Reserve and Guard have proven 
throughout the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, their ability to take 
on in every way responsibilities, dangers, and personal risk equal to 
the regular force.

I come back to that little chapter when both of us served as 
Secretary, and then he subsequently served in the Department in other 
capacities where Senator Webb gained a basic knowledge of personnel 
management, management of not only the Navy Secretariat but prior 
thereto, when he was looking at all the force structures of the 
Department of Defense. I readily acknowledge he is an expert and, in 
some ways, more current than I am, in terms of the management of our 
forces in uniform.

We have a difference, Senator Webb and I, and I will spell it out, 
with regard to the amendment. I endorsed it. I intend now to cast a 
vote against it. The reasons are as follows:

I went forward some months ago and informed the Senate and, indeed, 
informed the country, having returned from my 10th trip to Iraq, that I 
was gravely concerned about the situation over there and gravely 
concerned about the turbulence here at home, gravely concerned that the 
U.S. Army and the U.S. Marine Corps were being pushed to the limits, 
greatly concerned that our Guard and Reserves were being pushed to the 
limit. Furthermore, I felt that the surge--although I did not fully 
support the surge, and the record of this body, the Senate, clearly 
reflects my concerns--at that time, I felt that far more of the 
responsibility should be borne by the Iraqi forces. In January of this 
year, 2007, when the President announced his policy regarding the 
surge, I believed that Iraqi forces should take on a far greater role, 
particularly as it related to the sectarian violence--the criminal 
elements that are striking against our forces, and for nothing more 
than a few bucks undertaking, to put at risk the lives of our great 
soldiers, airmen, marines, and sailors. I thought that the Iraqi force 
should take on that and we should concentrate more on the security of 
that nation, to maintain the sovereignty and integrity of its borders 
and tighten the borders.


I won't go into the details, but the record is clear that I 
questioned the surge. Once the decision was made, I think I felt, like 
most Senators, that I should support the President, and I have tried to 
do so.

But back again to the force structure problem. At that time, I felt 
that we should send a signal to the Iraqi Government by putting some 
teeth in what the President had repeatedly said; namely, we are not 
going to be there forever. Our Ambassador in Iraq at that point in time 
had said something to that same effect. At the time that I announced 
the recommendation to reduce the forces and have that reduction take 
place so they could be home by Christmas, Ambassador Crocker had said: 
We are not giving you a blank check. They were just verbal statements 
directed at the Maliki government and all levels of the Iraqi 
Government to say that we are not going to be there forever, but you 
had to put teeth in it.

I felt if we first announced that we were going to take the first 
group home--and I carefully said that the President should consult with 
the ground commanders before he accepted any recommendation from me or 
anybody else to reduce force levels and begin to send people back such 
that they would be back home with their families before Christmas, and 
the President obviously did that. In his message of a week or so ago, 
he indicated--not necessarily agreeing with me--that he agreed with the 
concept; that after consultation with General Petraeus and other on-
scene commanders, that they could now, based on certain successes of 
the operation of the surge and visible successes that the intelligence 
community verified. Indeed, Senator Levin and I, on our trip a few 
weeks ago, saw with our own eyes, where there had been measurable 
success of the surge--but consequently the President agreed with the 
thought that troops could begin to depart Iraq ahead of schedule and 
come home. There are further details of that well-known to Members of 
this body.

So first and foremost, I asked for that, the administration and the 
uniformed side agreed with it, and it was done. That put me in a 
different posture because I felt my thought that it was time to bring 
some people home was accepted, and therefore I could then turn to the 
Webb amendment and the need to go back and get a clear understanding 
from the U.S. military, the uniformed side, of the consequences of the 
well-intentioned principles of the Webb amendment.

I would like to also digress momentarily to talk about politics. The 
Senator felt challenged. I wasn't here for the earlier debate. I was 
holding a briefing with senior members of the military from the 
Department of Defense on this very subject--the Webb amendment. And I 
can tell you without any equivocation whatsoever, knowing Senator Webb 
as I do, that politics is not a factor in his judgment. He honestly 
believes--he honestly believes--based on his long experience and his 
current knowledge of the readiness of the situation of our Armed Forces 
today that we need a policy, and we need it now, of a 1-month home for 
every month served abroad in a combat zone.

As I said, I agreed with him. But in that subsequent period of time, 
I have had consultations with a lot of senior military officers and 
just concluded a briefing with Lieutenant General Ham, the Director of 
Operations of the Joint Staff and Lieutenant General Lovelace, the 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations for the U.S. Army. Two respected 
three-star generals, whom I invited to come over here and further brief 
me and several other Senators who were present. They are not 
politically motivated. They are motivated by what they have to do to be 
fair to those serving in Iraq today.

It is their professional judgment that if this amendment were to be 
adopted and become law--and I will put aside all the other issues of a 
possible veto, and I just don't want to see another veto scenario here 
right in the middle of the war, and that is another reason--but they 
are absolutely convinced, and have now convinced me, that they cannot 
effectively put into force that amendment at this time, without causing 
severe problems within the existing forces and those who are serving 
there.

One of the consequences that could change in some fashion could be 
the very thing I advocated--namely, let us bring some of the troops 
home by Christmas. That might not be feasible if this amendment were 
adopted. The announced schedule of withdrawals--bringing the force 
structure down by July 2008 to what we call the pre-surge level, 
announced by the President and General Petraeus that might not be 
achievable, the reason being that on any day, if you look at the 
totality of the U.S. Army, about one-third of it is globally deployed 
beyond our shores--some 250,000 men and women in uniform. There is a 
rotation in and out of Korea of roughly 20,000 a year and rotation in 
other areas of concentration. You just cannot simply look at Iraq or 
Afghanistan; you have to look at the totality of the Army.


A soldier coming out of, say, Korea, having spent a year over there 
and expecting to have a year back at home, joins a unit for further 
training, and that unit is suddenly called to go to Iraq. Well, the 
only recourse is to begin to pull that soldier and some others out 
because of their need to have 12 months back here. In fairness, that 
soldier should have 12 months back here, but that unit has to deploy.

These generals, again putting all politics aside, they have not been 
ordered to do this; they are simply trying to manage the U.S. Army 
today in a way that is equitable to every single soldier, and they have 
convinced me they cannot manage it in this time period. If this 
amendment were changed to be effective at, say, the beginning of fiscal 
year 2009--starting in October of 2008--they feel they could manage it, 
certainly with regard to the combat units that are going over. But they 
still have a problem with--for example, in Iraq today there are some 
50,000 soldiers who are in what we call combat support roles, not just 
cooks and bakers,


although they are essential, but the people who are performing the 
removal of the IEDs over which the combat trucks roll to go forward to 
the front. If there is any single front in Iraq, and I don't think 
there is, the concept being they are deployed there to different parts 
of Iraq. Iraq is a 360-degree battle zone, in my judgment. And how well 
we know that the IED is causing the most severe damage to our soldiers 
in terms of loss of life and limb in Iraq today. They explained to me 
that the persons, the explosives experts who know how to go in and 
detect and remove these lethal weapons, are in short supply. The Army 
is doing everything it can, the Marine Corps everything it can, to 
train sufficient numbers of these individuals to come in and do these 
jobs, but they, too, have to be treated with a sense of fairness. They 
cannot be subjected to having to stay there maybe 15 months, maybe even 
longer, because we have no replacement for them.

So at another time, because I don't want to go into greater detail 
here--there was point after point these generals made in our briefing 
and that I have studied that clearly documents the difficulty, the 
unfairness, to others now serving in Iraq if this amendment were to 
become law.

Now, to the credit of Senator Webb and in my conversations with him--
although I don't know that I was the one who persuaded him--he went 
ahead and added an extension to his amendment, so that it goes into 
effect 120 days after the authorization bill is signed into law. Well, 
that still does not carry it anywhere near the October 2008 date, which 
is the earliest date that the Army feels it can now follow the Webb 
amendment and its goals. These generals told me there is no one who 
wants to move to the 1-to-1 ratio with any greater fervor or desire 
than the senior military staff of the U.S. Army and, indeed, others in 
the Department of Defense. They want it. They would do everything 
within their realm of professional responsibility to make it happen. 
But they simply cannot make it happen in the time frame as it is now 
couched in the provisions of the Webb amendment.

Mr. President, for those reasons and others--and I know I am taking 
generously of the time of others here--I feel I will have to cast a 
vote against my good friend's amendment. It is a change of vote for me, 
I recognize that, but I change that vote only after a lot of very 
careful and analytical work with the uniformed side of the Department 
of Defense.

The Secretary of Defense has written me on this subject, in a very 
detailed letter. I have a great deal of respect for him. I traveled 
with him this week and talked to him, and I tried to explain that 
possibly there are changes which could be made to the Webb amendment 
which would enable us to go forward and enact it into law, as opposed 
to a sense of the Senate, which I do hope we vote on later, but that 
was not achievable. I did my very best, but it was not achievable.

So I say to my good friend from Virginia, I agree with the principles 
you have laid down in your amendment, but I regret to say that I have 
been convinced by those professionals in uniform that they cannot do it 
and do it in a way that wouldn't invoke further unfairness to other 
soldiers now serving in Iraq.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.