---
---

# None
## `d8773aa9b8b287000d14d30312e0dc47`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
proposed resolution, and I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Again, I want to thank the distinguished chairman of our committee, 
the gentleman from California (Mr. Lantos), and our senior ranking 
member of our committee, the gentlewoman


from Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for their support and their leadership 
in bringing this important legislation before the floor.

I am pleased to bring to the floor today a bill that will benefit the 
entire Pacific region. I am honored and proud to sponsor this 
legislation.

While they may be overlooked when listing our great allies, the 
United States has long and profound relationships with the Pacific 
Island nations that stretch back more than two centuries. With 
consideration of this legislation today, Congress will act to 
significantly strengthen this vitally important alliance.

The Pacific Island nations have long been integral to our strategic 
interests, from the vital role they played in the Pacific theatre of 
operations during World War II to their critical role that they played 
in the conduct of our nuclear testing and missile defense system that 
even today is critical to our overall military and strategic interests 
in this important region of the world.

We work closely with the nations of the Pacific to combat 
transnational threats, particularly the rapidly increasing peril posed 
by global warming. The people of the Pacific have also fought and 
sacrificed side-by-side with American soldiers in conflicts from World 
War II to the current war in Iraq.

But as we look towards the Pacific, we must step up both our 
multilateral and bilateral relationships to provide critically needed 
assistance to ensure that other countries do not fill the void. Foreign 
assistance and scholarship offerings from other countries to the 
Pacific Island nations has increased dramatically in recent years. Such 
aid comes with few requirements for good governance and few 
environmental or labor standards.

The bottom line, Madam Speaker, our public diplomacy program and 
educational and cultural exchanges with the Pacific Island nations is 
shameful and without excuse.

Left unchecked, such foreign assistance from other countries can 
cause further instability, leaving these island nations to believe the 
United States no longer is interested to assist them, and thereby leave 
them vulnerable to establish friendships with countries that do not 
necessarily support our interests in this vast region of the world.

We must act now to fill the void and exert our influence. The Pacific 
Island Economic and Educational Development Act of 2007 seeks to 
address the development needs of our allies in the Pacific Islands and 
to engage the United States in the region more deeply.

This legislation pushes for greater activity in the Pacific Islands 
by authorizing the administrator of the U.S. Agency for International 
Development to listen to the needs of the leaders of the Pacific 
Islands and to provide assistance accordingly. This task would be 
significantly easier if USAID reestablished a serious presence in the 
Pacific Island region, something that has been long overdue.

The legislation also authorizes funds to increase the number of 
Fulbright scholars from the Pacific islands, making use of our most 
successful international educational program to increase the training 
of future leaders of the Pacific Islands. Fostering educational 
opportunities overseas is one of this government's strongest and most 
effective public diplomacy tools. Leveraging these grants would 
represent a tremendous way of reengaging with these critical allies in 
the Pacific region.

Under section 2 of this bill now entitled Pacific Island Country 
Exchanges, it is the intent of Congress to specifically increase 
funding for the U.S.-South Pacific Scholarship program, a program which 
has been in place since 1994, and has been administered by the East-
West Center in Honolulu under the direction of the U.S. Department of 
State. The U.S.-South Pacific Scholarship program has successfully 
trained many Pacific Island leaders, and it is imperative to U.S. 
interests in the region that we continue this program.

In this new world where shipping is vulnerable to terrorism and 
climate change is a top priority, we need these Pacific Island nations 
as much as they need us. Let's commit to reengaging with them, to 
strengthening our alliances with them, and to aiding them in every way 
possible.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.