---
---

# AMERICA COMPETES ACT
## `d879cb51768e1fda448f239b63634f46`
`Mr. THUNE — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I join with my colleague from Wyoming in 
rising to express my concerns about the budgetary problems the Army and 
Marine Corps are going to face because the Democratic majority has 
committed to staging a showdown with the White House instead of 
fulfilling our obligation to fund the military.

Over 2 months ago, the former Army Chief of Staff, General 
Schoomaker, testified before the Armed Services Committee that if the 
Army and Marine Corps do not get the supplemental funding by mid-April, 
the services will experience a serious cashflow problem and have to 
take extraordinary measures that will slow down the whole system. On 
April 11, the Secretary of Defense wrote Congress and stated:




 It is a simple fact of life that if the Fiscal Year 2007 


 supplemental legislation is not enacted soon, the Army faces 


 a real and serious funding problem that will require 


 increasingly disruptive and costly measures to be initiated--


 measures that will inevitably negatively impact readiness and 


 Army personnel and their families.


Moreover, on April 19, the Associated Press reported that the $70 
billion provided to fight the war has mostly run out. I want to say 
that again: The $70 billion that the Army needs to fight this war has 
mostly run out.

In order to stretch their remaining funds through June, the Army is 
slowing down the purchase of nonessential repair parts. I am not sure 
what repair parts during a war are nonessential. I guess we will have 
to leave it to our generals to inform their soldiers that their 
vehicles are not getting repaired because they are nonessential.


There is important funding in this supplemental. For example, Senator 
Biden offered an amendment to purchase more mine-resistant, ambush-
protected vehicles for our soldiers in the field. I commend Senator 
Biden for offering this amendment. I commend his commitment to it. 
Senator Biden said two things with which I wholeheartedly agree. First, 
he said that providing funding for these vehicles is a moral 
imperative. Second, he said it was a matter of life and death. I agree. 
His amendment and the supplemental as a whole represent a moral 
imperative for every Senator. It is a matter of life and death for our 
soldiers serving in combat. Yet the Democratic leadership is not 
handling this issue as a matter of life and death because they are 
determined to send a bill to the President that he has said he will 
veto.

As we all know, the President's objection to this bill is the troop 
withdrawal language that ties our commanders' hands and telegraphs to 
our enemies the time and place of our surrender. Congress should not 
and Congress must not get into the habit of interjecting itself into 
the military chain of command. To do so invites disaster and moves the 
country from the premise of conducting our military operations with one 
Commander in Chief and not running it by committee.

I direct some of my comments to some of our colleagues on the other 
side, primarily the leadership. I have been very concerned and shocked 
recently to read statements of members of the majority stating that 
their strategy is to send the President bills he will veto because it 
is politically advantageous. Some of our colleagues on the other side 
were quoted as saying recently:




 We are going to pick up Senate seats because of this war.


Quoting again:




 We will break them, because they [the Republicans] are 


 looking extinction in the eye.


I would say to my Democratic colleagues, we are not the enemy. If you 
want to break something, let's break the enemy. Let's break al-Qaida. I 
am concerned about where this debate is headed.

I have to tell my colleagues, as I have listened to our colleagues 
talk about this war particularly of late, we have had Democratic 
leadership saying that the war was lost. If that is true, then who won? 
Terrorism? Al-Qaida?


Religious extremists who murder the innocent? Or all of the above? If 
this is a true and accurate representation of the majority's position, 
it is not surprising that Congress has not sent an emergency 
supplemental to the President.

I serve on the Armed Services Committee. I have traveled several 
times to Iraq. I have visited, numerous times, Walter Reed Hospital and 
the military hospital in Germany. I have to say that I have not talked 
to one GI who says the war is lost. I have not talked to one injured 
soldier who says the war is lost. I have not talked to one officer who 
has said the war is lost. I have not talked to one commander who has 
said the war is lost. The only place I hear the statement that the war 
is lost is right here from the Halls of our Nation's Capitol or from 
news reports from Al-Jazeera or Iranian television quoting the majority 
leader of the Senate.

Our American soldiers believe they can win. Our American soldiers 
always believe they can win. That is why they are American soldiers. 
They are the best. It has to be very disturbing to our American 
soldiers to constantly hear politicians in Washington, DC, telling them 
they can't win. The Democratic leadership in Washington is playing a 
game of roulette with the administration where the only losers will be 
the American soldier.

We need to focus on providing our troops the equipment and resources 
they need to win this war. It is a global war. We have to quit acting 
as if short-term political gains are going to win this war for us. They 
will not. We need a unified and serious effort on the part of both 
parties in the Congress to win this war and to keep our Nation secure. 
History is going to judge us based on how we respond to the crisis of 
our generation.

I yield the floor.