---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `d880a47fd1334c3b50492e9cc7ab786a`
`Mr. BISHOP of Georgia — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. I thank the gentleman, our subcommittee 
chairman, for his tremendous work and bringing our bill to the floor.

Mr. Chairman, I am very pleased to rise in full support of our FY 
2008 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies 
appropriations bill.

As a member of the subcommittee, I am extremely proud of the work 
that the subcommittee and members on both sides of the aisle have done 
in crafting a bill which truly supports America's servicemen and -women 
and their families by boosting military construction funding so that 
they can have more effective training facilities, better housing, 
health care and day-care facilities, providing an unprecedented $21.4 
billion investment in military construction, family housing and BRAC, 
or nearly $207 million more than the President's request.

Just as important, I am extremely proud to join my subcommittee 
colleagues in recommending a historic expansion in support and 
resources for our Nation's veterans. This bill includes the largest 
single increase in the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration, 
increasing the VA budget by $6.7 billion above the 2007 level and $3.8 
billion above the President's request.

For the first time in history, funding for VA medical care exceeds 
the budget of the veterans service organization's independent budget 
that has been going on now for decades. This will ensure quality health 
care for 5.8 million patients, including about 263,000 Iraq and 
Afghanistan veterans, who the VA will treat, expectantly, in FY 2008.

This bill will provide veterans with health care and benefits that we 
have promised them, resulting in the hiring of more qualified doctors 
and nurses to improve medical services to our veterans and to reduce 
the waiting times for doctor appointments and to provide more help to 
veterans suffering from traumatic brain injury, PTSD, mental health 
care issues and lost limbs to rebuild their lives. This is truly an 
accomplishment that all of us, as Members of this august body, should 
be very proud of.

Of note, our bill also provides funding that gives much-needed 
nonrecurring maintenance of the VA health care facilities, $500 million 
above the President's request to prevent a Walter Reed-type situation 
from occurring in the VA medical system. It will significantly reduce 
the 400,000 claims backlog of veterans that are waiting for disability 
and other benefit determinations.

It will provide for better barracks, housing, training facilities for 
our troops when they return from combat through an unprecedented $24.4 
billion investment in military construction, family housing and BRAC, 
$207 million more than the President's request.

It provides funds to grow our military forces to begin the process of 
supporting an additional 65,000 Army, 27,000 Marine and 9,000 National 
Guard troops that will increase our ultimate end strength.

I have the privilege and the honor of representing Fort Benning and 
Marine Corps Logistics Base, Albany, and the men and women who work, 
live and train at this great military facility, who are defending and 
serving our great Nation with dignity, honor and distinction.

As such, I was very pleased that our subcommittee saw fit to include 
full funding for the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Account, which 
is also known as BRAC, at the level of $8.2 billion. This level of 
funding will be critically important to military facilities, such as 
Fort Benning, which are expected to see and experience significant new 
personnel as a result of BRAC and the global repositioning of our 
forces around the world.

While we in the Columbus area continue to have some concerns with 
respect to what impact the BRAC process may have on our local school 
systems in terms of potential dramatic increases in school enrollment, 
we continue to be encouraged by the interest and support shown by our 
colleagues on the subcommittee, particularly Mr. Edwards, our chairman.

Finally, I would like to recognize and thank the staff of the 
subcommittee, Carol Murphy, Mary Arnold, Walter Hearne, Tim Bishop and 
Donna Shabaz, majority staff; Liz Dawson, Deana Baron and Jamie 
Swafford, minority staff; and, of course, Michael Reed on my staff for 
their hard work.