# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d8871b7a334177cb93b76545a49a9ced`
`Mr. MITCHELL — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I think it is safe to say that regardless 
of any differences of opinion over military strategy in Iraq, we all 
agree that the outcome in Iraq will affect our national security and 
the security and stability of the Middle East for generations to come.

I was not a Member of this distinguished body in October of 2002 when 
many of my colleagues were faced with the decision of whether to 
authorize the President to go to war in Iraq. But 4 years later, I was 
elected by the people of my district who asked me and this Congress to 
set a new course in Iraq because it is clear to them that the 
administration's course is not working.

That is not to say there has not been some success. Our troops have 
performed bravely and succeeded in their mission to end Saddam 
Hussein's brutal regime. The Iraqi people exercised their new-found 
right to vote, and those who murdered innocent Iraqis have been given 
fair trials and justice has been served.

But since the initial military victory, political, diplomatic, and 
economic failure has become widespread. Today, sectarian violence is at 
an all-time high, and American troops are now caught in the middle of a 
civil war.

Now the administration is engaging in a military escalation of the 
war. They tried this strategy before and it didn't work. It didn't work 
because we need more than a military strategy. We need political and 
economic solutions too. We need a strategy that employs all of the 
elements of national power to ultimately put the Iraqis in charge of 
their own security and stability.

So far a military strategy has not solved the problems we have in 
Iraq. So far a military strategy has not brought Sunnis and Shiites 
together to maintain a unified government and a peaceful political 
environment. We know that a military strategy alone cannot create 
commerce and jobs for the Iraqi people. A military strategy alone 
cannot rebuild the basic infrastructure that has been destroyed over 
the past 4 years. A military strategy must be combined with sufficient 
political, diplomatic, and economic components. But that is not 
happening here.

I disagree with many of my colleagues in this Chamber who support the 
immediate withdrawal of U.S. troops. We have heard from too many 
generals, including those who have spoken out against this escalation, 
about the dangers of even more violence and instability in the Middle 
East if we simply withdraw. I do believe American troops have a role in 
Iraq, a supporting role. They should continue to train Iraqi soldiers, 
and their mission must ultimately be to put the Iraqis in charge of 
their own security and stability. But let me be clear: American troops 
have no place in the middle of a civil war.

This resolution reaffirms this body's support for the men and women 
of the United States military. Many of our troops have given their 
lives or suffered serious injury so that one day the people of Iraq may 
enjoy the same freedoms we have here in the United States. Their 
service and their sacrifice make me even more proud to be an American.

I hope and pray that we can have all of our brave men and women in 
Iraq and Afghanistan return safely to their families. But while they 
are in harm's way, we must honor their service by ensuring that the 
burden of success or failure is not left to them alone. We


have a responsibility to utilize every political, diplomatic, and 
economic tool at our disposal to ensure success in Iraq.