# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2446, AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND  SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007
## `d895ce3b550c23892db7765060c52c98`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Let me just say that, again, the underlying legislation is incredibly 
important. We do have an obligation, a moral obligation, to the people 
of Afghanistan. And, quite frankly, from a national security 
perspective, that is where our attention should be and where our 
attention should have been. It is regrettable, it is regrettable that 
the President of the United States and his administration and many in 
this Chamber have chosen to take their eye off what our responsibility 
is in Afghanistan over these last several years, and instead, we find 
ourselves bogged down in a quagmire in Iraq.

Those who are responsible for September 11, those who are responsible 
for the murder of so many of our citizens, they were in Afghanistan. 
That is where al Qaeda was. And instead of holding al Qaeda accountable 
in Afghanistan, instead of making sure that our resources go to 
promoting democracy and stability in Afghanistan, instead of focusing 
on this ever-growing drug problem in Afghanistan, we have spent over 
half a trillion dollars in Iraq. And that is regrettable. And, quite 
frankly, when history looks back on how these last few years were 
conducted, they are going to take note of the fact that we missed 
important opportunities to better protect our country by taking our eye 
off of what our responsibility was in Afghanistan.

And let me just say about the rule, I will apologize to my colleague 
from Florida for a rule that we bring to the floor today that makes 
every single amendment that was offered in the Rules Committee and not 
withdrawn by its author in order. Every Republican amendment, every 
Democratic amendment. And I know that that is different from the way 
things used to be when the Republicans were in charge of the Rules 
Committee. They had a tendency to just shut us all out routinely. But 
things are different now, and under the Democratic administration here 
in the Congress, we are trying to make sure that all points of view 
have an opportunity to be heard on the floor.

So I am happy that we have this rule, and, again, I apologize to the 
gentleman that it is not like what they used to do.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Vermont, a member of the Rules Committee (Mr. Welch).