# NOMINATION OF GENERAL DAVID PETRAEUS
## `d895965b7c5e0dc16b323978ef86253c`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 29 June 2010`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, the Senate's confirmation hearing for 
Gen. David Petraeus is now underway. Seeing Gen. Petraeus should remind 
all of us of the successful counterinsurgency campaign he led in Iraq 
and of the sacrifices made by coalition forces there before and after 
the surge of forces in 2007. Regimental and brigade combat teams 
protected the population and fought hard battles while a 
counterterrorism campaign, led by General McChrystal, was conducted 
against insurgent leaders.

Today's hearing also reminds us of the divisive debate that preceded 
that successful counterinsurgency campaign and of the skepticism and 
criticisms leveled against General Petraeus by some of our colleagues 
across the aisle at the time.

Fortunately, the critics did not prevail, either in their attacks on 
General


Petraeus or in their calls for a hasty withdrawal of troops based on 
political timelines rather than the security and stability of Iraq.

If we learned anything from that debate, it is that our national 
security and the stability of the region outweigh short-term political 
calculations.

It is clear that our Nation's efforts must be integrated in 
Afghanistan, just as they were in Iraq. It is worth remembering our 
forces in Afghanistan have been conducting a counterterrorism campaign 
for more than 8 years, and this has been insufficient to keep the 
Taliban from regaining the momentum in Afghanistan. American and Afghan 
security forces must do more to ensure the Afghan populace that it will 
be protected, something undermined by withdrawal deadlines.

The surge of forces into Afghanistan ordered by the President is not 
yet complete. General Petraeus is the right General to command this 
operation and he should be confirmed quickly.

Madam President, my understanding is that the senior Senator from 
Washington has a unanimous-consent request she would like to propound.