# None
## `d89687388a5a404396778bdf4bbb29f2`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio â€” 29 January 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. And it is exciting because it is just starting, Mr. 
Murphy. It is just starting.

And when you meet with the Speaker and you see the intensity in her 
eyes and the focus about this was really just the beginning and we are 
not here to say, well, we did our first hundred hours and we are done. 
We are going to chalk it up and we are done. This is about continuing 
to move forward. We have got to reauthorize No Child Left Behind.

And when you talk to Chairman Miller, who is the Chair of that 
committee, you see the look in his eyes about an opportunity to change 
the face of education in this country, to finally put some resources 
back behind No Child Left Behind to where it actually will work.

And when you look and you see, and I know, you know, Senator Kennedy 
is talking about putting money in there to help school districts figure 
out how they can possibly extend the school day and extend the school 
year so that we can make sure that our kids are on par with kids from 
Korea and some of these other countries where they go an extra couple, 
3 weeks a year more than us, which equals another year or two over the 
course of a 12-year education cycle. These are the kind of things that 
we want to implement here.

And if it wasn't for the, and we got into this, too, a lot back home. 
You know, a lot of people had an almost unrealistic expectation that we 
came in, we can come in now, Mr. Murphy, and Ms. Wasserman Schultz and 
wave a magic wand and all of a sudden there is a lot of money here. 
Well, we have got a lot of making up to do because of the irresponsible 
fiscal inadequacies and inability of the Republicans to actually 
balance the budget. So we have got to go up and clean that mess up. We 
have got to figure out how to extract ourselves from this morass we are 
in in Iraq and then finally make the investments that we want to make.

So we have got a lot going on here, Mr. Meek, and we are very excited 
about the proposition that we have in the future. When you look at the 
opportunities that we really have in this country, I think they are 
great. But it is about focusing on the human capital in the United 
States of America, Mr. Murphy, and making sure that we make the kind of 
investments into the health care, education in the United states and 
the stem cells and the alternative energy are going to put us on a 
strong path to move forward.

And I would be happy to yield to my friend from Connecticut.