---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `d8978d638156bc504eb7e2c6f10d3590`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 June 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me offer my appreciation 
to the full Committee on Appropriations, both the chairman and ranking 
member, and to this subcommittee. I've seen enormous commitment to 
bipartisanship between Mr. Edwards and, of course, Mr. Wicker. But my 
good colleague and friend from Texas has outdone himself, and this 
particular veterans appropriation, the Military Construction Veterans 
Affairs appropriation, signifies nothing but joy for Americans and 
veterans all across this country.

Might I just cite the fact that this bill moves above the President's 
budget in medical services, making it $28.9 billion; moves above the 
President's request on homeless vets, $130 million; moves above the 
President's request on medical facilities, $4.1 billion; and moves 
above it on extended care facilities, $165 million.

Many of us have risen to the floor today to talk about post-traumatic 
stress. I just wanted to remind my colleagues of the kind of horror and 
nightmare that many of our soldiers and returning soldiers and veterans 
live with, suffering from PTSD. It is simply to acknowledge the fact 
that over and over again you relive the tragedy of the experience, 
whether it's small arms fire, whether it's IEDs, whether it's seeing 
your comrade fall in battle in front of you, whether it's seeing his 
body implode, you know that you're reliving it, and the number one 
basis of PTSD is military and combat exposure.

Just for the record, let me acknowledge that 94 percent of the 
soldiers in Iraq reported receiving small arms fire; 86 percent of 
soldiers in Iraq reported knowing someone who was seriously injured or 
killed. This is a major issue and it is a major part of the lives of 
our soldiers.

Mr. Chairman, my amendment simply was to do this: It was to provide 
more medical centers in places like rural areas or small cities to be 
able to be utilized for PTSD. I know Chairman Edwards knows this issue 
because it was his leadership that generated the change of the Waco 
veterans hospital into a mental health facility. I want that to 
continue to stand, and I want to thank him for the increased dollars 
he's put in for PTSD.

But, Mr. Chairman, I have a veterans advisory committee that's 
indicated that we need centers around the Nation, smaller centers maybe 
in small hospitals, that would respond to veterans and returning 
soldiers, maybe even to the extent of reimbursing them by being in 
those particular centers.

Let me close by simply saying that this bill is comprehensive. I look 
forward to working with the chairman on more permanent housing for the 
disabled, as we work toward more PTSD facilities, even though we have a 
great amount of resources here, more adjusted housing, if you will, for 
those who are coming back so they're not living alone.

I want to take special privilege to acknowledge the DeGeorge in my 
community for my homeless vets, a facility for homeless vets, DeGeorge 
at Union Station and U.S. Vets. All of them confront veterans and 
returning soldiers with PTSD. If we expand these facilities so that 
rural and small cities and even inner city areas, which is what my 
amendment is focused on, everybody would have the opportunity to be 
able to access help with PTSD.

I would ask my colleagues to consider as we move toward conference to 
be able to work on this issue in an expanded way.