# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `d8aa6d73814a53284c614b686d481265`
`Ms. LANDRIEU — 22 October 2007`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Mr. President, first let me say I wish to be added as a 
cosponsor to Senator Cardin's amendment. I was very taken by his 
presentation about the responsibility that we do have, and it has been 
on my mind, actually, for several weeks about our allies and support 
staff in Afghanistan and Iraq, so I want the clerk to note that I wish 
to be a cosponsor to the Cardin amendment.

But I rise to speak about an amendment I am offering, and I have had 
some very good advice and counsel on this amendment from several 
members of the committee, and I will speak about the amendment as if it 
is modified, because Senator Kennedy suggested I might make some 
changes to it.

As you may remember, last week the Senate was very helpful in 
reinstating one mental health program that had been cut, I think very 
inappropriately, and it couldn't have been at a worse time for us in 
the gulf coast. It was an outstanding model program. Last week the 
Senate adopted my amendment to reinstate a child's health program that 
LSU had been running for 4 years, because after Katrina and Rita hit, 
it was literally the only child counseling program in the metropolitan 
area. That has already been done.

Tonight I come to the floor to try to help again in the same area of 
mental health. We have crafted this amendment so that it has no impact 
on the underlying bill because what it does, basically, is set a 
competitive preference. This is not a set-aside but a competitive 
preference for programs within the already existing and already funded 
school-based mental health program. That has been well established and 
well run for many years.

My amendment, with the Kennedy modification, simply says that the 
Department should look out in the country, and if there are areas where 
a disaster has been declared, they would give a competitive preference 
to those areas and to those schools in giving out these grants for 
counseling.

I cannot even begin to express the heroic efforts of our schools--
public schools, private schools, and parochial schools--and the things 
some principals, teachers, faith-based organizations, and foundations 
have done to help rebuild hundreds of schools that were destroyed. We 
found, in our disaster--and of course we are learning a lot from the 
lessons learned in the disasters of Katrina and Rita, but one thing I 
know for sure, and I don't need a survey or anybody else to tell me 
about it because, as you know, I have been following it pretty closely, 
is that


the first thing parents and a community want back, basically, is their 
schools.

After a whole neighborhood is destroyed, or large parts of a city, no 
matter how large or how small, in order to get back to normal, parents 
first have to get their children safe and into a school. So we noticed 
right after Katrina-Rita, with 300,000 children looking for a place to 
go to school on Monday morning, there was a great struggle underway for 
parents to start to stabilize their family situation by getting their 
children back in school. Even if the family had no home, even if the 
father or mother had no job, even if they couldn't locate the 
grandparents, they were first thinking about where can our children go 
to school on that Monday morning.

Imagine the children coming into schools--and I could tell you so 
many stories, extraordinary stories of teachers and schools and 
principals who opened their arms to children who came in and who had 
been traumatized from not only, of course, losing their own home, but 
some of the children swam out of water, some children, unfortunately, 
saw many people die in the disaster, and some had losses in their own 
immediate families. So I don't think I have to explain the need and the 
importance of mental health counseling.

That is what this bill does. Senator Harkin has been a phenomenal 
supporter of this program. I think he actually helped to create it. 
Again, I am not asking for any new money to be added. I am not even 
asking for a set-aside for any of the programs in the gulf coast. I am 
simply saying as we look to the future to fund these programs that we 
give a competitive preference, if you will, for schools that find 
themselves in disaster areas.

Senator Boxer spoke for 10 minutes on the crisis underway in Southern 
California. Imagine the trauma some of these children are going to be 
dealing with over the next months and years trying to rebuild in those 
communities, or if their home was completely destroyed by fire. These 
disasters, by their very nature, cluster in certain communities. So you 
might have a group of schools where 90 percent of the children lost 
their homes, or a large proportion of children might have lost someone 
in their family in a disaster. So it makes common sense for us to be a 
little more sensitive to these mega disasters, and that is what my 
amendment does. So I offer it now. I don't know if it can be accepted 
by voice vote. I am happy for it to be voted on at any time. If 
everything else is in order, I will leave the rest to the managers.

While I am waiting on some documents in another matter, let me say a 
few more things about this. The funds would be divided between four 
grantees to leverage funds for mental health services, as I said, to 
the schools. The schools play a central role after a communitywide 
traumatic event. Schools are a very important site for delivering 
mental health services. Schools are often best situated to recognize 
immediate mental disorders. School-based mental health services lead to 
increased academic achievement, decreased attention problems and 
disciplinary issues, and reduce special education referrals.

The national average, unfortunately, as we know--and I think we need 
more resources in this area--is 476 students for every 1 counselor. The 
recommended ratio in our schools is 250 to 1. So imagine in the 
devastated areas along the gulf coast and in other places, such as in 
Kansas, where Senator Pat Roberts experienced a great tornado disaster 
in a much smaller community, but it was pretty much a complete 
destruction of a town in Kansas; or as Senator Boxer is experiencing 
right now in Southern California, this amendment would look forward. 
Again, it would not add anything to the budget, but I think it would 
give us an opportunity to give some appropriate competitive preference 
to these children.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.