---
---

# TEXAS TEACHER OF THE YEAR FOR 2010
## `d8acdcce79a8a9156b0f9e5c1e7483f2`
`Mr. REYES — 5 May 2010`

---


Mr. REYES. Madam Speaker, El Paso, Texas has a history of producing 
strong, passionate, and caring educators who motivate and engage our 
children to become life-long learners. As a parent and grandparent, I 
am grateful for the contributions of our teachers in the El Paso area, 
and, in honor of Teacher Appreciation Week, I want to take this 
opportunity to congratulate all the outstanding teachers in our 
community.

In particular, I would like to commend Mrs. Yushica Walker, a teacher 
at Morehead Middle School in the El Paso Independent School District, 
for being selected as the 2010 Texas Secondary Teacher of the Year. The 
Texas Teacher of the Year is the highest honor that the State of Texas 
can award to a teacher. Facilitated by the Texas Education Agency, the 
Texas Teacher of the Year Program annually recognizes and rewards 
teachers who have demonstrated outstanding leadership and excellence in 
teaching. Mrs. Walker represents the best of the best in the teaching 
profession, and we salute her energy, efforts, and dedication.

Mrs. Walker is a proud Army spouse. She is the wife of Major Johnnie 
R. Walker of the TRAC WF (Training and Doctrine Command Analysis Center 
White Sands Missile Range Forward) office at Fort Bliss, Texas. He is 
currently stationed in Afghanistan.

Mrs. Walker has been teaching for more than 12 years. She earned a 
Bachelor of Science degree in Interdisciplinary Studies with Reading 
Specialization from Prairie View A&M University, and a Master's degree 
from the University of Phoenix. She serves as a member of the Campus 
Improvement Team and as a Master Mentor for new teachers.

Her aunt, Willie Mae, who taught for 29 years for the Houston 
Independent School District, inspired her to become a teacher. Mrs. 
Walker attributes her teaching success, in part, to a positive attitude 
and ''demonstrating that teaching is enjoyable.''

Mrs. Walker is part of a larger history of educational excellence in 
El Paso. I am proud to note that El Paso area educators have been 
chosen as Texas Teachers of the Year 10 times, with four El Pasoans 
honored in the last five years. The National Teacher of the Year 
Program began in 1952 and continues as the oldest, most prestigious 
national honors program that focuses public attention on excellence in 
teaching.

I am proud of the work of our teachers, and I am committed to 
ensuring that education remains a top priority for Congress.
