# None
## `d8b0dbc0348043a5d514b299578e46f4`
`Ms. BALDWIN — 11 December 2007`

---


Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Filner.

I rise in strong support of H. Res. 855, the Dr. James Allen Veteran 
Vision Equity Act that I introduced earlier this year. This bill fixes 
an inequity in the current paired organ statute that has resulted in a 
denial of appropriate disability compensation to blinded veterans.

Congress has rightly recognized that some human organs or limbs are 
designed to work in pairs: legs, hands, kidneys, lungs, ears and, of 
course, eyes. In the instance of eyes, blindness in one eye profoundly 
affects depth perception even if sight is fully retained in the other 
eye. The paired organ statute was written to assist those veterans who 
experience a service-connected loss of a paired organ or limb. The 
statute recognizes the interdependency of paired organs and endeavors 
to treat the combined disability created by a nonservice-connected 
loss, injury or degeneration of the remaining paired organ or limb as 
though it was the result of a service-connected disability. In general, 
the paired organ statute accomplishes this task, with the exception of 
its treatment of eyes and loss of sight.

I want to share with you the story of Dr. James Allen, after whom 
this legislation is named. Dr. Allen is a professor of ophthalmology at 
the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine in my district. He has 
worked at the Veterans Affairs Hospital for 33 years and treated 
numerous eye patients, including veterans who are blind.

One example is Mr. Donald May. Don is a World War II veteran who lost 
his right eye in a hand grenade explosion. A few years ago, Mr. May 
became legally blind in the nonservice-connected left eye. He applied 
to the Department of Veterans Affairs for help and was denied further 
benefits. He was told that the current law in regard to paired organs 
did not apply to him, even though he was legally blind in his service-
connected right eye.

After Dr. Allen brought the plight of his patients to my attention, I 
began to research why these veterans were being denied the benefits I 
felt they deserved, benefits that I believe Congress intended to grant 
them. Through my work with the Blinded Veterans Association, we 
discovered that while the current paired organ statute covers 
blindness, in practice few, if any, veterans have ever been able to 
qualify for such compensation.

In theory, the statute provides that a veteran who is service-
connected for blindness in one eye could qualify for additional 
disability compensation if they become blind in the remaining eye for 
nonservice-connected reasons. However, the statute does not define the 
term ''blindness,'' nor is any provision made for impairment of vision 
in the nonservice-connected eye short of blindness.

Rather than using visual acuity of 20/200 or loss of field of vision 
to 20 degrees as the definition of legal blindness that has been 
adopted by all 50 States and the Social Security Administration, the 
Department of Veterans Affairs uses a much more restrictive definition, 
5/200, as a rating for legal blindness, which in rough layman's term is 
the equivalent of having an eye with light perception only. As a 
result, few, if any, blinded veterans are able to qualify for 
additional compensation under the paired organ statute.

H. Res. 855, the Dr. James Allen Veterans Vision Equity Act, fixes 
this problem. It defines blindness as impairment of vision where the 
impairment is to a visual acuity of 20/200 or less or of a peripheral 
field loss of vision of 20 degrees or less. This change in the law 
would only affect a small percentage, estimated to be roughly 5 percent 
of the 13,000-plus veterans who are service-connected for loss of 
vision in one eye. Yet such a change would send a powerful message that 
our Nation's blinded veterans and the hardships that they have faced 
are not forgotten.

Indeed, our Nation's blinded veterans face significant challenges in 
the labor market. The National Institute on Disability and 
Rehabilitation Research found that for individuals with visual 
impairments, to the extent that they are unable to read letters, the 
employment rate is only 30.8 percent, compared to 82.1 percent for 
those without disability.

I want to mention that this resolution complies with the PAYGO rules. 
The costs associated with H. Res. 855 are fully offset. This bill 
directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services to match and compare VA needs-based pension benefits 
data, parents' dependency and indemnity compensation data, health care 
services data and unemployability compensation data with the National 
Directory of New Hires maintained by DHHS, for the purpose of 
determining eligibility for such benefits and services. According to 
the GAO, such data matching will help reduce fraud and abuse within the 
VA system as it determines eligibility and benefits to those veterans 
thought to be unemployable but are indeed working.

I would like to just thank Chairman Filner, Subcommittee Chairman 
John Hall, as well as Congressmen John Boozman and Vic Snyder for their 
unwavering support of this bill. I also want to thank the staff of the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee for their help in advancing this 
legislation.

H. Res. 855 is a modest but important step in restoring fair 
treatment to those veterans blinded due to their service to our country 
and to further our commitment to them. Their sacrifices and their 
service to this Nation should be matched by our desire to improve the 
quality of life for them and their families.

Earlier this year, the Blinded Veterans Association had found over 
200 soldiers returning from Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan 
and Operation Iraqi Freedom who are blinded in one eye due to their 
service-related injuries. They could be benefited in the future by this 
legislation.

I strongly encourage all my colleagues to support H. Res. 855.