# None
## `d8b47bc4e4392fac06f31f350151736d`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut â€” 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. It goes to the very subject that we opened 
with in talking about here, which is the war itself, and we believe 
that there is a much better way to spend pretty much all of that money, 
whether it be rebuilding our schools, educating kids, giving health 
care to children.

But even, even given the vast amount of money that we are spending 
over there, there has been virtually no check, virtually no oversight 
by this Congress and this administration. A


great example is the Government Oversight Committee, which has done 
really yeoman's work in trying to make up for the complete absence of 
oversight during the past several Congresses. The Oversight Committee 
held a hearing, very well attended, very highly publicized hearing a 
few weeks back with the CEO of Blackwater, who came before Congress, 
Blackwater, the private security firm which has basically created a 
privatized military in Iraq today.

Blackwater came before us, the CEO of Blackwater came before us the 
other week, and we asked him simply this. We said, tell us how much 
profit you are making. Tell us how much profit Blackwater is making off 
of U.S. Government contracts and said, You know what? It's none of your 
business. I can give you an estimation. I think we are making about $85 
million a year in profits off of $850 million in contracts. But, 
basically, it's none of your business, United States Congress.

There weren't a lot of people on the Republican side of the aisle, on 
that government Oversight Committee that blinked at that suggestion, 
because that has been the practice in this Congress over the past 
several years. That has been de rigueur, as a matter of course here, 
that we don't ask any questions, that it is okay that Blackwater 
security, a private military operating in Iraq, can make $85 million in 
profit off of doing what we know the United States military could do 
themselves.

So it's endemic when you talk about private tax collectors, it's 
endemic when you talk about the issues such as PAYGO that 
Representative Wasserman Schultz raised and certainly in spending on 
the war. Time after time again we have seen no fiscal responsibility 
here, and time after time this Congress, Mr. Meek and Ms. Wasserman 
Schultz, is shedding light on that misused taxpayer funds, but passing 
legislation like the bill that we passed today, which changes the 
course, and we start spending tax money wisely once again.