# FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `d8bb5ac5dbe2c6ccbbc4e66cb35d943c`
`Mr. HATCH â€” 7 May 2008`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in support of S. 
2313, the Strategies to Address Antimicrobial Resistance, or STAAR Act. 
I am proud to have introduced this legislation with my colleague from 
Ohio, Senator Sherrod Brown. Similar legislation is being championed in 
the House of Representatives by Representatives Mike Ferguson and my 
dear colleague and fellow Utahn, Representative Jim Matheson.

For more than 60 years since their discovery, antibiotics have saved 
millions of lives and helped patients of all populations cope with 
suffering related to infection. But as we have seen, our country 
increasingly faces a number of troubling questions about whether we are 
prepared to address the growing problem of drug-resistant, bacterial 
infections.

Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention indicate 
resistant strains of infections have spread rapidly. While antibiotic 
resistance is an elevated problem for those with compromised immune 
systems--individuals with HIV and patients in intensive or critical 
care units, for instance--these infections can strike anyone. Further, 
this alarming trend continues to worsen and treatment options are 
sorely lacking.

Antibiotic resistance is not a new development. The news is this: 
Infections that were once easily cured with antibiotics are now 
becoming difficult--in some cases, impossible--to treat. National 
surveillance data and studies show antibiotic-resistant bacteria have 
multiplied and spread at disquieting rates in recent years.

For example, consider a common bacterial cause of hospital 
infections--Staphylococcus aureus, also called staph--which can spread 
to the bloodstream, heart, lungs and bones with potentially fatal 
results. In the early 1940s, penicillin effectively combated staph 
infections. However, penicillin-resistant staph bacteria were 
identified as early as 1942. Subsequently, methicillin was introduced 
in the 1960s to fight staph-resistant infections, and shortly 
thereafter methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus--or MRSA--was 
discovered. In 1974, 2 percent of staph bacteria found in our country's 
hospitals were methicillin-resistant. By 2002 the number had jumped to 
57.1 percent, according to CDC data.



And it is not just happening in hospitals. Public health experts are 
increasingly finding infections developed in the home or community as 
well. Thus, infections in both settings are increasing and the 
resultant drug resistance shows no sign of lessening.

The recent problems with MRSA are but one striking example; we are 
also seeing increases, in extensively-drug resistant--XDR--
tuberculosis. There are also numerous reports of soldiers returning 
home from Iraq with Acinetobacter--a resistant infection that is 
especially difficult to treat, and the only option is a very toxic 
antibiotic.

While recent media reports have raised the visibility of this issue, 
infectious disease doctors have been sounding the alarm for years.

In its 2004 report, ''Bad Bugs, No Drugs,'' the Infectious Diseases 
Society of America, or IDSA, said: Drug-resistant bacterial infections 
kill tens of thousands of Americans every year and a growing number of 
individuals are succumbing to community-acquired infections. An 
epidemic may harm millions. Unless Congress and the administration move 
with urgency to address these infections now, there is a very good 
chance that U.S. patients will suffer greatly in the future.

Resistant infections lead to higher health care costs because they 
require more expensive treatment and care. According to estimates from 
the Institutes of Medicine--IOM--and the former Congressional Office of 
Technology Assessment, the economic burden placed on our national 
health care system as a result of resistant bacteria totals billions of 
dollars annually.

IDSA, which represents more than 7,500 physicians, scientists, and 
other health professionals who specialize in infectious diseases, has 
issued a stern warning and recommendations. The I0M, CDC, NIH and the 
FDA have also warned that drug-resistant bacteria are a serious public 
health threat.


It is time to act.

That is why my good friend Senator Brown and I introduced S. 2313, 
the STAAR Act. Our bill is not the sole answer to the complex problem 
of antibiotic resistance. There are several avenues to address the 
problem. But our bill focuses on just one: providing adequate 
infrastructure within the government to collect the data, coordinate 
the research and conduct the surveillance necessary to stop 
drugresistant infections in their tracks.

We believe that jump-starting a greater, stronger organizational 
focus at the Department of Health and Human Services will help our 
government and scientists develop an infrastructure that can grow as 
science develops. The STAAR Act lays out the framework by which we can 
begin to take action against this serious public health threat. At a 
minimum, we need better testing, hospital controls, medications and 
funding to support these efforts, particularly the work of the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention.

In an effort to create this organizational focus, the STAAR Act 
establishes a new Office of Antimicrobial Resistance at HHS in the 
Secretary's office. This will give the issue the prominence and the 
focus it deserves.

Our bill also renews the interagency Antimicrobial Resistance Task 
Force which expired in 2006. It creates an advisory board of experts to 
advise the new office and the task force, which was created in 1999, to 
coordinate Federal efforts to combat antimicrobial resistance and was 
comprised of representatives from the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration, the National Institutes 
of Health and also includes the Agency for Healthcare Research and 
Quality, the Health Care Financing Administration, the Health Resources 
and Services Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the 
Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and the 
Environmental Protection Agency.


That task force developed a public health action plan to combat 
antimicrobial resistance; however, implementation of the plan fell by 
the wayside. There were no personnel specifically dedicated for 
executing the plan because all task force members already had full-time 
responsibilities at their respective Federal agencies. In short, this 
very important job was assigned to people who already had very 
important jobs. So our bill recharges that effort. These new bodies 
will work together to develop a plan to combat antimicrobial 
resistance, to keep that plan updated and to advise the Secretary on 
research that should be conducted.

The distinguished Senator from Ohio, Senator Brown, and I have found 
that it is difficult to understand the magnitude of the problem because 
data are sorely lacking. Spotty data exists from many States--for 
example, from a hospital or a hospital chain--but not data statewide or 
nationwide. We need to change that. Our bill addresses that problem. 
The STAAR Act directs drug sponsors and appropriate government agencies 
to collect data and share them with the Office of Antimicrobial 
Resistance as the main depot for such data to facilitate interagency 
planning on antimicrobial resistance. That will provide us with the 
information we need to begin addressing the real problem of drug-
resistant infections.

Finally, we authorize grants for at least 10 Antimicrobial Resistance 
Clinical Research and Public Health Network sites to strengthen our 
national capacity to develop the information necessary to assess the 
extent of the problem and look at effective ways to address it. 
Currently, there is very little capacity to quickly monitor, assess and 
address the spread of new or particularly resistant microbes. These 
network sites will work with the CDC to establish a surveillance system 
to allow tracking and confirmation of resistant microbes in almost real 
time. Also, with support from the CDC and the NIH, these sites will 
conduct research to study the development of antimicrobial resistance. 
With data from this research, we can better prevent and control and, 
ultimately, treat the threat of antimicrobial resistance.


I wish to take a moment to stress the real importance of this issue. 
I mentioned earlier that drug-resistant infections can affect anyone at 
any age--the young, the old, the healthy or ill, I have read stories 
about newborns, high school and college athletes and NFL football 
players who have battled with these resistant infections, and many of 
them lost the fight.

I would like to read a short excerpt from one of these stories, which 
I think really stresses the need for attention to this issue. This was 
written by a woman from New Jersey named Linda Lohsen, who lost her 
daughter Rebecca to MRSA in August 2006. Ms. Lohsen writes:




 Why do I want to share all of this with you? Because for 15 


 years I was a public health nurse--I heard all about the 


 diseases that might happen. And, perhaps like some of you, I 


 became jaded. I felt that public health was all about 


 sounding the alarm for things that never come to pass. I'm 


 here to tell you this is real, this does happen and it 


 destroys lives.



 Rebecca's death has changed me, and has changed all of us. 


 Once I believed that the dangers that were out there would 


 stay out there. That modern medicine can avert these dangers. 


 I no longer have the confidence in medicine that I did. I 


 believe we have made great advances, that there are cures to 


 be had, but I've watched the dismay in the faces of doctors 


 who are supposed to be the best in their field as they told 


 me they didn't have any more 'cures in their bag.' And I know 


 that it truly is a practice of medicine, not a finished 


 product.


Mr. President, Federal agencies, physicians and scientists who 
specialize in infectious diseases, and public health nurses like Linda 
Lohsen, are telling us there is a pressing need to address the problem 
of antimicrobial resistance. We do not have time to wait, and we cannot 
quickly fix something that we do not yet understand. As Mrs. Lohsen 
wrote, the dangers that are out there will not simply stay out there. 
We need to be aggressive in creating a strategy to prevent loss of life 
or a serious public health epidemic, and lift the economic burden on 
our health care system caused by antimicrobial resistance.

The STAAR Act is not the whole answer, but it is a good bill and an 
important step in the right direction. In addition to IDSA, the STAAR 
Act has been endorsed by more than a dozen highly regarded professional 
healthcare associations.

I am very pleased to sponsor this bill with Senator Brown, and I 
commend him for his work on this bill, for his interest in national 
health care, and for the hard work he performs in the Senate. It is a 
privilege to work with him on this matter.



Of course, I urge my colleagues to support this bill. It is long 
overdue, and we should do everything in our power to make sure we solve 
these particular problems.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.