# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d8c4cc428da190bcf5539736a30865a6`
`Ms. LINDA T. SANCHEZ of California — 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. LINDA T. SANCHEZ of California. Madam Speaker, I join my 
colleagues today to add my support to this resolution.

This resolution is straightforward and simple: we support our troops 
and oppose President Bush's plan to send more than 20,000 additional 
combat troops to Iraq.

I support this resolution because we need a new direction in our Iraq 
policy. This war has been going on for almost my entire service in this 
House, and during that time, I have heard one misrepresentation after 
another.

This war began on a flawed premise, that Iraq had weapons of mass 
destruction and posed an imminent threat to the world. After months of 
fruitless searches, it became clear that there were no weapons of mass 
destruction; but 3 years after coming to that conclusion, we are still 
in Iraq.

Then we captured Saddam Hussein and more than 3 years later we are 
still in Iraq. We were told we needed to be there to fight the 
terrorists who attacked us, but we all knew that al Qaeda was based in 
Afghanistan, not in Iraq.

Vice President Cheney said the insurgency was in its last throes; and 
20 months later, our troops are still in combat in Iraq.

We were told we were in Iraq to establish democracy and freedom. Iraq 
now has a Constitution and an elected government, but over 1 year later 
we are still in Iraq.

It was 3 years, 9 months and 2 weeks ago that President Bush declared 
mission accomplished, but our troops are still in Iraq.

We in this House and the American public have been continuously 
misled about this war. Enough is enough. If I really believed that 
sending another 20,000 troops would end the war and bring stability to 
Iraq, I would support it. It would be worth the sacrifice. But the war 
in Iraq cannot be solved militarily because it is a political problem.

So when the President wants to send even more troops, we really need 
to take stock of what that means for our country and the lasting impact 
that it will have.

We all know the statistics: 3,124 American troops killed; over 20,000 
wounded; and over $379 billion spent.

And I have seen the costs beyond the numbers, and I am sure my 
colleagues have as well.

Each visit that I have made to Walter Reed, every wounded veteran 
that I have met in my district and each condolence letter I write to 
the widow or the parent of a fallen soldier painfully reminds me of the 
great sacrifice we are asking from our men and women in uniform and 
their families.

There are also costs that we don't have numbers for, but they are 
worth considering. How many children will grow up without a parent 
because of this war? How many veterans' lives will be forever altered 
because of the injuries they have endured? How are we being perceived 
throughout the world, and has it made us more vulnerable to terrorism?

As we consider the President's decision to send yet more troops and 
to escalate the costs we are bearing, we need to ask ourselves whether 
the cost of sending more troops to fulfilled a flawed policy is 
justified. I don't think it is, and most Americans don't think it is 
either.

As far as I am concerned, this is a moral issue. We are not doing 
right by our troops and their families to continue sending them into 
harm's way without a winning strategy.

And we are not doing right for America. Our continued presence in 
Iraq is breeding new recruits for terror groups and eroding the 
readiness of our own Armed Forces.

We are increasingly vulnerable to defending our interests in other 
parts of the world, such as Afghanistan, where just yesterday The 
Washington Post reports that NATO lacks enough troops to fight the 
Taliban and al Qaeda.

It is time to change our tactics and bring an end to our current 
mission in Iraq. This resolution is not going to do that, but it is a 
first step in articulating to this President that staying the course is 
not working and it is not acceptable to the American people.

I urge all my colleagues to join me in voting ''yes'' on the 
resolution.