---
---

# PROVIDING ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES TO SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR  AFGHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION
## `d8cad450b48e9cd3764526b9f2dc7908`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 15 June 2009`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of Senate bill 615, legislation 
that provides critical personnel authority for the Special Inspector 
General for Afghanistan, known as SIGAR.

Since 2001, the United States has devoted $32 billion in humanitarian 
and reconstruction assistance to Afghanistan. In an effort to combat 
waste, fraud and abuse with regard to the expenditure of these funds, 
Congress created the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
Reconstruction, commonly known as SIGAR, in the National Defense 
Authorization Act of 2008.

That legislation empowers SIGAR to conduct audits, inspections, and 
investigations of all U.S. assistance programs in Afghanistan. Congress 
intended that SIGAR would exercise its authority swiftly. It came into 
existence in July of 2008 with an authorization to hire 18 auditors, 13 
inspectors and 3 investigators; but from the beginning, SIGAR has been 
hindered by certain limitations contained in standard Federal 
Government personnel authorities and by the difficulty of attracting 
qualified candidates to work in the difficult security environment of 
Afghanistan. A year after its creation, SIGAR has conducted only one 
independent audit and has only hired nine auditors, five inspectors and 
three investigators.

This resolution would help resolve this problem by granting SIGAR a 
special hiring authority under 5 U.S.C., section 3161. Section 3161 
would allow SIGAR a more flexible, excepted service authority and would 
empower the office to select, appoint, and employ the necessary staff 
to fulfill its duties. In particular, section 3161 would grant return 
rights to Federal employees, provide interagency detail authority and 
permit the setting of pay rates above the caps established by GS-15, 
step 10, under which SIGAR is currently required to operate.

This has proven to be a vital asset for SIGAR's counterpart in Iraq, 
SIGIR, which has long relied upon this enhanced hiring authority to 
attract its dedicated core of professional staff.

After conducting an in-depth review, the Department of Defense and 
the Office of Personnel Management have concluded that the proposed 
legislation is necessary to allow SIGAR to meet its responsibilities.



This bill represents a vital step in allowing SIGAR to fulfill its 
critical duties of the oversight of U.S. assistance programs in 
Afghanistan. I support the bill and urge my colleagues to support it as 
well.

I reserve the balance of my time.