# FISCAL IRRESPONSIBILITY
## `d8ce174b3b38935cb354f4d2bca7a252`
`Mr. SHADEGG — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. SHADEGG. I thank the gentlelady from Tennessee for yielding, and 
I want to commend her for her work. You know, there is a story here 
tonight. There's a story the Nation needs to know. There's a story of 
an institution charged with protecting this Nation and carrying out the 
responsibilities of this government, and it is a story of shame. It is 
a story of failure. It is a story of an institution that's supposed to 
be doing its job and isn't.

And I commend the gentlelady from Tennessee (Mrs. Blackburn) for her 
efforts to bring that story forward, to point out the 3,565-page bill 
that was laid on us less than 20 hours ago when we were given less than 
20 hours to pass it.

But the real story here, I would suggest, is a story that some of my 
colleagues have already commented on, and that is the story of 9,200 
earmarks in this bill. Now, I suppose if you're an average American 
you're sitting back at home and you flip through the TV channel and you 
catch C-SPAN and you know generally what an earmark is. But let me tell 
you what it is. An earmark is an effort by a Member of Congress to name 
some little project that will somehow benefit, or they can make an 
argument that it will benefit, them or their constituents in some way, 
and yet, sadly, when you examine those earmarks, you find one thing is 
true. Every single one of them is self-serving, designed to get that 
Member of Congress re-elected, and every single one of them is put in 
there with huge effort.

Now, in this bill, we have 9,200 individual Member projects, 
earmarks, if you will, inserted in the bill. You heard my colleague, 
Mr. Ryan from Wisconsin, point out that 300 of those Member projects or 
earmarks were dropped in this bill just last night. That is to say, 
they've never been seen before.

Now, my colleague from Texas, Mr. Hensarling, pointed out that none 
of us could do what I was asked to do when I ran in 1994. When I ran 
for the United States Congress in 1994, my constituents said to me, 
Congressman, we want you to go back there and promise us you'll never 
vote for a bill that you haven't read. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can 
read a 3,565-page bill in 20 hours. It can't done be done.



I had a conservation with a constituent this weekend when I was home, 
and he said to me, because I was complaining to him about earmarks, 
about misspending, he said, Well, I thought that the Democrats cleaned 
that up. I thought that practice ended. I thought they'd ended that. I 
thought the reforms had changed that.

Well, the gentlelady from Tennessee and the gentleman from Texas and 
my colleague from Wisconsin have pointed out the story of the night. 
The story of the night is all the talk about reform was just that; it 
was talk. Reform has not happened. If the American people believe that 
they elected a new majority to this Congress to end wasteful spending, 
it didn't happen. If they believe they elected a new majority to 
Congress to get things done in regular order so we could review the 
bills and read them before they were voted on, it did not happen. If 
the people across America believe they elected a new majority, and that 
new majority reformed the rules to end earmark abuse, it didn't happen, 
because those earmarks are here.

Hillary Clinton's hippie museum, it's here. And God knows what else 
is in this bill, because the 3,565 pages which sit right there cannot 
possibly have been combed by all of us in this time.

What you have heard is that while Congress could find time to put in 
9,200 earmarks in this bill, and combined with prior bills, take the 
total earmarks for the year to 10,300, roughly, roughly $17.6 billion 
in Member projects and earmarks, we could find the time to do that. All 
the Members of Congress could, you know, write out their list requests 
and say, I need this project and I need that project and I need this 
project, and Hillary Clinton needs a hippie museum, and God knows what 
else is in this bill. But we couldn't find time, as my colleagues from 
Texas and Tennessee and Wisconsin have pointed out to you, we couldn't 
find time to put money in there for our soldiers in Iraq.

Oh, we could find time to renovate the U.N.'s headquarters in New 
York. We could find time to essentially overturn the Secure Fence Act 
by making it almost impossible to build that fence. We could find time 
to craft 692 pages of individual Member requests, little requests, fund 
this so that I look good and I get re-elected. We could find time for 
that. We could find time for 9,200 of those.

We could air-drop, that's right, you heard, air-drop earmarks. What 
does that term mean? Well, an air-drop earmark is an earmark that is 
inserted in a bill after it has left both the House and the Senate. How 
many of those are there in this bill that nobody's ever seen, perhaps, 
but the author of the bill? There are 300 of those. So we could find 
time for 9,200 earmarks, 300 of them air-dropped, never seen before. No 
American, no average American back home has had any chance to review 
them. We could find time for that, but we could not find time to fund 
the war in Iraq.


I commend the gentlelady for bringing these facts forward. I think it 
is a story that America needs to know. They need to know that this 
Congress, as the gentlelady from Tennessee pointed out, was supposed to 
do this work clear back last August, last September, and be done with 
it. But they couldn't find time to do it until now, almost Christmas 
Eve. But by gosh, they could find time for their earmarks, their pet 
projects. But no time for the Nation's defense.

I commend the gentlelady from Tennessee. I appreciate her yielding me 
time. I think this is a story the American people know about, need to 
know about, and I think it's worth saying here one more time. My friend 
Tom Cole from Oklahoma said, ''Earmarks are a gateway drug to higher 
spending. I suggest this bill proves that to be true. Once again, 
earmarks pave the way for higher spending. And as my colleague from 
Texas pointed out, that means higher taxes, less money in the 
pocketbooks and wallets of the American people, more money in the hands 
of the government to, frankly, misspend in ways to try to get 
themselves re-elected. I think it's an important story. I think it's a 
sad day, and I commend the gentlelady for asking the time, late at 
night to take her time and to work hard to make sure that some 
Americans know the abuse that's going on, the outrages, the hundreds of 
thousands of earmarks and the hundreds of thousands of air-dropped 
earmarks, special projects nobody has ever seen that are put into this 
bill. And I commend you for the job you're doing.