# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `d8d134cc6f7b03c4e4a3d0ee2c19bdd7`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, as to the author of the amendment, no one 
should ever question his motivation, his patriotism. He has been a firm 
believer that we should be out of Iraq as soon as possible. Senator 
Feingold believes our continued presence in Iraq is creating more 
terrorism in terms of solving the problem; it is creating the problem 
in a larger sense. I personally disagree.

The reason al-Qaida went to Iraq is not because we were in Iraq. They 
went to Iraq because of what the Iraqi people are trying to do. We are 
all over the world. They have not followed us to every country we have 
been in. They have decided to make Iraq a central battlefront in their 
war against moderation because they fear a successful outcome among the 
Iraqis. The biggest fear of an al-Qaida member is that a group of 
Muslims will get together and be tolerant of each others' differences 
when it comes to religion, and elevate


the role of a woman so she can have a say about her children. That is 
why al-Qaida is in Iraq.

The military surge has produced results beyond my expectation. The 
old strategy clearly was going nowhere. After about my third visit to 
Iraq, after the fall of Baghdad, I had lost faith in the old strategy 
and those who were proposing it was working. This new general has come 
up with a new idea. This is not more of the same with more people. You 
are getting out behind walls. You are getting out into the community. 
We are living with the Iraqi Army and police force--very good gains in 
terms of operational capabilities of the Iraqi Army. We are going to 
have to start all over with the police.

But the surge has allowed a real diminishment of the al-Qaida 
footprint in Anbar Province. Anytime Sunni Arabs turn on al-Qaida 
anywhere in the world, that is good news. So the surge has provided us 
a level of security not known before. It has been al-Qaida's worst 
nightmare. There is still a long way to go.

Senator Feingold's amendment would basically bring the surge to a 
halt. It would withdraw troops at a very rapid pace. We would be out of 
Iraq by June of next year. My big fear is, instead of reinforcing 
reconciliation, it would freeze every effort to reconcile and people 
would start making political decisions based on what happens to their 
country when there is no security.

The American mistake of the ages was letting Iraq get out of control, 
not having enough troops. We paid heavily for that mistake. Now we have 
it turned around. Militarily, politically they are not where they need 
to be in terms of the Iraqis. But the best way, I believe, to get 
political reconciliation to happen in Baghdad is to make sure those who 
are trying to reconcile their country--families--are not killed. So the 
better the security you can provide, the more likely the 
reconciliation.

One thing is for sure: more troops have helped embolden the Iraqi 
people in terms of extremists. They are taking on extremists after the 
surge better than they had ever done before the surge. I think this 
confidence given to the Iraqi people by a surge of military support has 
paid dividends.

We need political, economic, and military support to continue, not 
just because of Iraq but because of our own national interest. If I 
thought it were only about who ran Iraq, I would be willing to leave. 
It is not about who controls Iraq. It is about whether we can create a 
stable, functioning government in Iraq that would contain Iran and deny 
al-Qaida a safe haven. If it were only about sectarian differences and 
a power struggle for Iraq, it would be a totally different dynamic.

To me, Iran is ready to fill a vacuum. If we have a failed state, 
that is a military, political, and economic problem far worse than the 
ones we are dealing with now. A failed state is a state that breaks 
apart, people stop trying to work with each other, and regional players 
come in and take sides.

A dysfunctional government is what we have in Iraq, probably what we 
have here. A dysfunctional government has hope of getting better 
because people keep trying. So the way to have a government go from a 
dysfunctional status to a secure, stable status is to provide security. 
I want this dysfunctional government to act sooner rather than later, 
just as you do, I say to the Presiding Officer. The best way to make 
that happen is to ensure that the politicians involved understand we 
have a commitment to their cause that will embolden them.

The Feingold amendment, no matter how well intentioned, will 
reenergize an enemy on the mat and make it harder to reconcile Iraq. 
That is why I urge a ''no'' vote.

I yield back.