# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `d8d51b933ebc750ec6be31d38ed933b7`
`Mr. COBURN â€” 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. COBURN. Here is what we know. Medicare fraud, out and out pure 
Medicare fraud. It is somewhere between $70 billion and $90 billion. I 
picked the middle, which is $80 billion. We have


testimony and studies and lots of data on that that will show us that 
at least $80 billion worth of Medicare money is being ripped off every 
year.

Let me give some examples. I will go through some. Here is one 
company that billed Medicare $170 million for HIV drugs. Do you know 
how much in HIV drugs they did? Less than a million. But they billed 
$170 million. There was $142 million for nonexistent delivery of 
supplies and parts and medical equipment--$142 million.

How about taking Medicare numbers from seniors and billing Medicare 
for prosthetic arms on people who already have two arms? That came to 
$1.4 billion last year. Think about that--$1.4 billion was billed to 
Medicare for prosthetic arms for people who don't need prosthetic arms.

How about 80 percent of the drugs billed across the entire United 
States for HIV under Medicare went to the State of Florida, which has 
less than 10 percent of the HIV patients who are eligible for Medicare. 
How is that possible? How about one wheelchair that got billed to 
Medicare? It was never sent, but they billed $5 million to Medicare 
through multiple billings. It is easy to add up to $80 billion.

I could go on. How about fake Medicare providers for the elderly, 
when they steal their number and send multiple bills to multiple 
locations throughout the country for the same Medicare patient. That is 
$10 billion in improper payments. The actual improper payments were $37 
billion the year before last, and $27 billion last year and of that, 
$10 billion of it is unrecoverable. We paid too much or we paid the 
wrong person. That is $10 billion out the door, which is $250 per man, 
woman, and child in this country in improper payments on Medicare.

Medicaid is another one. There was $30 billion worth of fraud. It is 
higher than that; that is only the Federal Government's portion of it. 
It is easily documented, but we cannot document it because Medicaid 
doesn't file improper payments like the law says they are supposed to. 
Why? It is because we have not had the guts to put any teeth into 
forcing HHS to have improper payments. Last year, finally we got 6 
months of improper payments on only direct payments to doctors. They 
found $13 billion worth of improper payments. We have a report that 
says there is probably $15 billion worth of fraud in Medicaid in New 
York City alone, of which the Federal Government's share would be about 
$8 billion to $9 billion.

How about the fact that we paid, in 10 States, over $30 million for 
payments for Medicaid services to people who are dead? Yes, we paid 
that. We have a great system that is working well. How about the fact 
that 65 percent of all Medicaid rehabilitative services are fraudulent? 
So of the rehab bills that are filed with Medicaid through CMS, 65 
percent are fraudulent.

Why do we continue to let that happen? Where is the oversight? Ninety 
percent of New York Medicaid school-based service claims were 
illegitimate. Case management. CMS reports that in one State, 72.4 
percent of the claims weren't valid in terms of Medicaid case 
management.

Then we have the infamous drug scandals with the drug companies that 
have been overbilling to the tune of a billion dollars.

How about Social Security disability fraud? We have that listed at 
$2.5 billion. What we know is the following: There is at least $6.5 
billion in improper payments in Social Security disability. So we have 
paid them a much smaller percentage than we have on any other improper 
payment program throughout the Federal Government and said we will take 
a small percentage of that, less than 40 percent, which is normally 80 
percent, and we will list it at $2.5 billion. It is coming out of 
Social Security every year--totally wrong--and that $2.5 billion could 
stay in the SSI program to fund people who were truly disabled. Yet we 
let $2.5 billion sneak out. Why? That is us. We have not done the 
oversight.

If you add up all of the rest of the improper payments in the Federal 
Government, you come to $55 billion. That is what is reported. But that 
doesn't include the 18 agencies of the Federal Government that don't 
even report improper payments, even though it is the law, which 
accounts for another $179 billion worth of spending. And if they are 
anywhere close to the rest of it, there is 5 to 10 percent of improper 
payments. So there is anywhere from $3 billion to $7 billion more in 
improper payments.

DOD performance awards. Here is what we have done. Over the last 3 
years, the DOD paid out $8 billion on average a year to contractors for 
performance bonuses that didn't meet the performance requirements of 
their contract. Think about that--$8 billion a year. That is almost 
twice the total budget of my home State that we are paying for 
performance bonuses for contractors that don't meet the requirements of 
the contract, but we pay them anyway. Why do we allow that? Why do we 
allow that to happen?


How about DOD maintenance of unneeded properties? We have testimony 
and a report that shows they have 22,000 pieces of property they don't 
want. They are spending about $3 billion maintaining properties they 
don't want. But we put roadblocks in the way so they cannot get rid of 
them. Is that Americans' fault or is that something we should have 
addressed? We didn't do it. Consequently, we are going to throw out $3 
billion more this year to maintain properties we should have sold 5 to 
10 years ago.

We also know that within the Federal Government, outside of the DOD, 
we have another $18 billion worth of properties we cannot get rid of 
because we cannot go through the hundreds of hoops we have to be able 
to get rid of them. That is a one-time savings. That is not even on 
here. That is a one-time savings we would achieve if we had a real 
property reform that forced the bureaucracy to do what was best when it 
came to real property.

Going back to the performance bonuses, when GAO looked at it, they 
found no connection between the payment of performance bonuses at the 
Pentagon and performance--not just on this $8 billion they said was 
paid erroneously, but on the rest of it. I think we have an Armed 
Services Committee in the Senate. We certainly have a DOD 
Appropriations Committee in the Senate. You would think this might be 
one thing we wanted to do oversight on. Yet no oversight hearing has 
happened. Why is that? Why haven't we looked at how we are wasting this 
money?

How about no-bid contracts. This is my favorite. We have seen the 
problems between Boeing and Northrup-Grumman on a new tanker, a $35 
billion new contract--except we know we have needed a new tanker for 12 
years. We have had planning on that for 12 years. We are letting a 
cost-plus contract go through because we don't know what we want. Do we 
not think whoever won that contract ought to have to take some risk, 
development risk? Do we think the American taxpayer ought to pay that? 
We know we lose at least $5 billion a year across the Government in no-
bid contracts. That is probably minor. That is a small estimate within 
the Pentagon. We have not even looked at all the other no-bid contracts 
throughout FEMA, which we know was tremendously wasteful during 
Katrina. We know that at least $3 billion of the money we spent during 
Katrina, from hearings we had on homeland security, was wasted. When 
the average price we pay to pick up debris from Katrina to the guy 
actually picking it up is $6 a yard, and we are paying the Corps of 
Engineers $32 a yard, there is a problem. The taxpayers are getting 
swindled by 500 percent. Yet we did that to the tune of billions of 
dollars after Katrina, with no management or oversight.

What we know is in homeland security--and especially from Congressmen 
Waxman and Davis in the House--32 Homeland Security Department 
contracts, worth a total of $34 billion in no-bid contracts, have 
experienced significant overcharges, wasteful spending, and 
mismanagement. Between 2003 and 2005, the no-bid contracts in the 
Department of Homeland Security increased by 739 percent. There is no 
management. We are allowing that to happen. When we argue that we 
cannot let the bureaucrats control it, when we say we have to do 
earmarks, but we don't do oversight, we are letting the bureaucrats 
control it. If there is $300 billion worth of waste, fraud, and abuse 
here, and our earmarks account for $18 billion, what price are we 
paying by not managing the Federal Government


and having oversight? We are not doing it.

Emergency spending, another one we won't be critical of ourselves. We 
put emergency spending in on the floor and add from $20 billion to $40 
billion and call it an emergency, and none of it meets the definition 
of an emergency. We do that so we can go outside of the spending 
parameters that we have limited ourselves to either through pay-go or 
the budget. But it looks good at home--or does it? It looks good at 
home until we start talking about the waste, talking about the fraud, 
talking about the mismanagement, talking about the denial of our oath 
we took when we came here to uphold the Constitution. When we allow 
bureaucracies to waste money, when we don't have oversight of those 
bureaucracies, then in fact we have abandoned our oath.

It is interesting, in emergencies, up until recently, when we had 
emergency spending, we paid for it. In my home State of Oklahoma we had 
the Oklahoma City bombing, a tremendous tragedy. It was the first major 
internal terrorist act we had. All of the money that went toward 
restoration of that was paid for. We didn't borrow it from our 
grandchildren. Let me go back again. When we don't pay for things with 
emergency spending, we charge it to them. When we have a true 
emergency, which we might say we didn't plan for, that is one thing, 
but when we know what we are putting into the bill is not an emergency, 
we are saying they don't matter, we don't care. We care more about 
looking good and getting some constituent satisfied than thinking about 
the future of these kids.

How about other areas? How about crop insurance? Do you realize that 
for every dollar we pay out in crop insurance, we spend over $3 in 
administrative fees and underwriting to insurance companies? How is 
that a good deal? Regardless of where you are on the farm bill, why 
would we do that? That is at a rate of five times what the rest of the 
insurance industry earns.

Who has the sweet deal here? Who has the sweet deal? It is not these 
kids. They don't have a sweet deal, when we are paying three times more 
than we should to administer a crop insurance program and not requiring 
farmers to participate. That is the minimum we can save--$4 billion a 
year--by saying you can earn the same amount of money as everybody else 
in the casualty insurance business, and no more. No more sweet deals 
for crop insurance firms. But do we do it? No. I voted wrong on one of 
the amendments for it. It may have been the amendment of the person 
sitting in the chair. But we didn't do it.

One of my favorites is the United Nations. We sent $5.3 billion last 
year to the U.N. and we cannot get the State Department to tell us what 
our total was in 2007. That was 2006. By law, they are supposed to 
provide that, but they don't comply. The Foreign Relations Committee 
won't make them comply, and the Appropriations Committee won't do it, 
because we don't want to know how much we send. But the American people 
want to know. But the Secretary of State does not want to give it to 
us. Our committees will not force them to do it. What do we know about 
that, of the leaked documents that came out looking at how money is 
spent? What we know is on procurement and peacekeeping that at least 40 
percent of the money that is spent is wasted. Think about that. At 
least 40 percent is influenced through people of influence and does not 
ever get to what it is supposed to be doing. It never gets into the 
peacekeeping field. Only 60 percent of the procurement money actually 
ever gets to where we want peacekeeping, and yet we don't do anything 
about it.


We have asked for transparency at the United Nations. This body voted 
99 to 1 to condition last year's money on that transparency. It went to 
conference, and all of a sudden for some reason that was dropped. I 
wonder why that happened? We thought the United Nations owed us an 
explanation to tell us where they spent our $5.3 billion but, in our 
wisdom, we did not accede to that because it might have upset the U.N. 
Consequently, about $1 billion a year of what we send to the United 
Nations is pure waste--pure waste. It goes to fraud. It goes to buy off 
people. It goes to not accomplishing the goals.

If we look at what we are trying to do in Darfur and the new U.N. 
program over there in terms of sending an interdiction force, what we 
know is 40 percent of the money has been wasted. It has been scavenged. 
It has been taken away. It is not going to make a difference in 
somebody's life.

It is interesting, the U.N. peacekeeping budget this year will grow 
from $5 billion to $7 billion, a 40-percent growth in 1 year. And of 
the top five contributors to the U.N. budget, which is us, the United 
Kingdom, France, Japan, and Germany, all of our budgets are going to 
grow around 6 or 7 percent. But because we do not have any 
transparency, we do not have any management at the United Nations, we 
have a spoil system and we do not have the courage in our body to hold 
them accountable, we are going to throw $1 billion to $2 billion of our 
kids' money away.

Oh, I know, we shouldn't rock the boat at the United Nations. They 
are the people who care about freedom in the world. It is hard to see. 
If they care about freedom, transparency would be one of the No. 1 
things they would assure themselves.

How about another $10-billion worth of savings? We have $64 billion 
worth of IT contracts going on right now; $27 billion of those are on 
the high-risk list. In other words, we routinely lose about 20 percent 
of our investments in ITs. They don't ever accomplish their goals. We 
spend the money, and we never get anything for it. Where is the 
management for that program? Where is the accountability for that? It 
is similar to the tanker program: Give me a cost-plus program, I don't 
know what I want now, but I know I want something, and I will tell you 
as we go what I want. And so the bills start adding up. So out of the 
$64 billion we spent last year, $27 billion of it is questionable we 
are ever getting anything out of it.

Take a conservative estimate of that, which is less than what we know 
historically the IT oversight from GAO has told us, and we are going to 
lose $10 billion on programs that were not asked for right, were not 
managed properly or we just flat did not get what we asked for and 
parted our ways and threw these kids' money away.

Then there is another $17.5 billion we can save from the National 
Flood Insurance Program. It was created in 1968 by Congress to prevent 
the need for future emergency spending for large floods. It was 
designed to be self-supporting, to pay back any debts with proceeds 
from ratepayers. But what happened was, on the way to the store, the 
politicians got in between them. So now we have a vast majority of 
properties that have been grandfathered in that historically have made 
claims. They were built before the NFIP construction standards, and 
they receive premium subsidies. In the wake of Katrina, we have a one-
time savings of $17.5 billion that we could have had we had that 
program. But where are we? We now have Gulf Coast States lobbying us 
that we should increase that program, except the kids I showed the 
picture of are responsible for that.

The other item, and I challenge all my colleagues to start talking 
with Federal workers about where they can save money. If you ask them, 
every one of them says, yes, we can save money. As a matter of fact, we 
can save a lot of money, but nobody is asking. As a matter of fact, the 
system is, if we haven't spent the money by the 10th month, we are told 
to spend it, we are told to spend the money because we might not get 
enough money next year, and if we don't spend it, then it looks like we 
don't need it and, therefore, our budgets will be declined. In fact, 
out of the $1.36 trillion we are going to spend this year, we could 
save 5 percent easily, 5 percent efficiency. If we can save it, if the 
Federal employees, the thousands with whom I have talked, are right, 
why aren't we saving?

Let's go down through a few more, and then I will finish.

We know if we simplify the Tax Code, either change it to a flat tax 
or straight tax or a value-added tax--whichever one you want, it 
doesn't matter--what we know is if we did that, we could get 
significant savings. Let me tell you how.

One is we know compliance will be better. But we also know we have a 
$10 billion budget for employees at the IRS that if, in fact, we could 
create a simpler, fairer, straighter system--you


pick which kind, I don't care, value-added tax, whatever it is--that we 
would not need nearly that many employees and we would not spend $160 
billion a year paying our taxes, which is what we pay other people 
outside the IRS.

We also know the IRS, for every dollar they spend investing in 
compliance, gets between $3 and $4 back. So somewhere between $50 
billion and $100 billion out of the $370 billion that we don't get now, 
we can save. But we tend to want to use it for a political debate.

How about eliminating outdated and wasteful programs. Let me go 
through some of them. That is $18 billion. Science fiction weapons, 
$431 million, got nothing for it over the last 10 years, nothing for 
it, and we spent $431 million and got nothing.

The Coast Guard lengthened eight patrol boats through an earmark. It 
cost $100 million. They are all worthless now. We have to buy eight 
patrol boats. Somebody had a good idea.

How about excessive fuel costs? At minimum, $35 million a year, and 
what we know now looks like in Iraq another $12 million worth of fraud 
occurring in the fuel depots inside Baghdad. Another $40 million, $50 
million on fuel.


How about improper travel payments at the Defense Department, $4 
million a year? Security clearances--it costs us half a billion dollars 
a year to do security clearances because we are doing it in the Dark 
Ages when, in fact, for almost every other thing around this country we 
have developed modern systems, computer-aided IT to develop how fast 
and how often we can clear security items. Yet we spend half a billion, 
and it takes a year to get somebody cleared. We could cut that in half.

We had a wonderful earmark for polyester t-shirts for our marines. 
The only problem is, if their MRAP or humvee has a fire, it sticks to 
their skin. But we still spend $3 million on them.

How about a ferry to nowhere, 84 million bucks? We rejected the 
developmental boat proposed from a defense contractor in 2002, and the 
U.S. Navy was required to accept the project and the bid and deploy it 
to the seas for field engagement, even though it never proved 
economically worthwhile.

How about a James Bond boat, $4.5 million, three of them?

A high-altitude airship. The President knows something about this. 
The Missile Defense Agency did not request funding for this program. As 
a matter of fact, they said they canceled the program called the high-
altitude airship because of capability limitations. Yet we continue to 
spend at least $1 million a year every year on that program because 
somebody wants it. Some constituent, some moneyed interest, somebody 
who might employ 20 or 30 people wants it. Somebody wants it, so we 
have to look good.

How about the American Embassy in Iraq, $592 million? We know a good 
20 percent of it is pure waste. We have seen the fraud. We have seen 
the reports. We know what is going on there. Have we cut back the 
amount of money? Have we limited the amount of money on it? No. We 
offered an amendment and couldn't get it done.

How about USAID in Afghanistan, $5.68 billion spent for schools. In 
the first snow, the roofs collapsed on them. Did we do anything about 
it? No, we hired the contractor to do more stuff on a cost-plus basis.

How about hospital clinics that were supposedly built, except after 
we paid for them, the Afghanistan Government told us they didn't build 
them. How do we let that happen? That is us. That isn't the 
bureaucracy; that is us. We are letting it happen. We are allowing it.

We spend $20 billion on Federal AIDS programs and what we know is 
lots of it gets wasted. We know there is widespread deficiencies within 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the HIV prevention 
program. Those are not my words; that is the HHS inspector general.

Two million dollars was embezzled at the San Juan AIDS Institute. NIH 
is spending $120 million right now on a vaccine program. The starter of 
that program and the major scientists who started it said it will not 
work, and they are not contributing, but we continue to spend $120 
million on a program everybody in science knows is not going to work, 
but we are doing it.

By the way, we spent $300,000 or $400,000 on HIV Vaccine Awareness 
Day, and we don't even have a vaccine. It is important we spend it, but 
we cannot get rid of it because somebody objects.

AIDS housing, millions of dollars wasted.

Here is my favorite. How about $1 million paid to dead farmers? A 
billion, I am sorry, a billion dollars paid to dead farmers for their 
crops. They are dead. We are continuing to pay them, up to 15 years 
some of them. It is the only program you can continue to collect after 
you are dead, and yet we have an Agriculture Department that allows 
that to happen.

How about this--this is great--the National Park Service centennial 
celebration. We are going to spend $100 million in a time when our 
deficit is $607 billion, our debt $10 trillion, and our unfunded 
liabilities are $7 trillion, and we are going to spend $100 million to 
celebrate our national parks? That doesn't pass the smell test. Nobody 
is sitting around their dinner table tonight saying if we are ever in 
the kind of shape we are in, we ought to be doing that.

How about $100 million for the conventions that we did under 
emergency funding? We spent $100 million, everybody's money, for each 
city so we could have the conventions in Denver and Minneapolis.

The other interesting thing about the national parks is it doesn't 
turn 100 until 2016, 8 years from now, but we are going to spend the 
money.

How about a $30 billion subsidy to Amtrak? Amtrak started with a 
subsidy and was supposed to get better. We continue to not hold them 
accountable. How about a $244 million subsidy for food on Amtrak? Maybe 
we want to continue to have Amtrak. Maybe it is worth it to us to have 
a $1.5 billion subsidy every year on Amtrak. I would agree with that. 
Maybe that is the right priority. But should we be subsidizing a 
quarter of a million dollars a year for people's food on Amtrak? But we 
are.

Other items--essential air service to small communities that are 
within driving distance of another community, we are going to spend 
$110 million this year. How about the fact that we are going to pay 
Federal employees $250 million to ride the transit? Nobody else in this 
country gets paid to ride the transit. Nobody else gets their transit 
bills paid. But Federal employees, we are going to take a quarter of a 
billion dollars every year, and we are going to say to some of the best 
paid, best benefited workers in the country that we are going to give 
you a quarter of a billion dollars in subsidy so you will ride the 
transit. Well, economics will tell them to ride the transit. The 
American taxpayer shouldn't do that.


Well, I am wearing thin, I know, my colleagues, and so I will stop 
and enter into the Record the remaining 50 pages of examples I have of 
stupidity for which we are responsible. The real important thing to 
keep in mind, if you have been listening to this, is that we are on an 
unsustainable course, that, in fact, a child born today is going to 
inherit something different from what we did. We inherited opportunity. 
They are going to inherit debt. We inherited a leadership and a 
heritage that says you sacrifice for the next generation. They are 
going to inherit a legacy that says you kick the next generation in the 
teeth.

Everything I have outlined today is something we could have 
controlled, we as Members of the Senate, but we are so busy doing 
earmarks that we don't do any oversight. Now, what I just outlined to 
this body is what my staff has discovered in 3 years. Think what would 
happen if all of us were aggressively oversighting every agency of the 
Federal Government. Think how efficient it would be. Think how much 
waste wouldn't be there. Think about what a great deal we would be 
doing for these kids.

America expects us to tighten our belt. They expect us to do what 
they are having to do right now. They are tired of our wasteful 
spending, they are tired of our earmarks, and they are tired of our 
bridges to nowhere. We better listen. There is a rumble, and if we 
don't listen, it is our own fault that we will continue to decline in 
esteem in front of the American people. We will have well earned it.

So the next time somebody says they want to raise your taxes, ask 
them how


much of that they got rid of before they do it. We don't have a 
shortage of money. We have a shortage of courage. We have a shortage of 
character. We have a shortage of intensity to solve the real problems 
that are facing this country. And until we tackle this, we should not 
say one thing to anybody in this country about increased taxes. It is 
morally reprehensible, it violates our oath, and most of all, it does 
great damage to our country.

I ask unanimous consent that the examples that I referred to be 
printed in the Record.