---
---

# URGING HUMAN RIGHTS AND DEMOCRACY IN KAZAKHSTAN
## `d8d97734a69d8dfe37f5d200fe271deb`
`Mr. CLAY — 23 September 2010`

---


Mr. CLAY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to bring attention to growing 
concern of abuse and corruption in the former Soviet Republic country 
of Kazakhstan. The recent revolution in neighboring Kyrgystan and, 
earlier, the conflict behind Russia and Georgia heightens concern for 
the region . . . a region rich in oil and gas supplies and a region 
which serves as a gateway for the U.S. and NATO war effort in 
Afghanistan. However, ongoing allegations of corruption, human rights 
abuses, human trafficking, religious persecution and the lack of 
election reform, free media and free speech seriously affect its civil 
society.

The world's 10th largest energy-producing country, where a large 
number of U.S. corporations are doing business in an effort to meet our 
domestic energy needs, is not only an ally of the U.S. on non-
proliferation treaties; it has provided the U.S. and NATO a gateway to 
Afghanistan. However, increasingly I see reports indicating that 
Kazakhstan's governmental system lacks the basic rights of democracy: 
elections are neither free nor fair; what political opposition exists 
is manipulated, physically and economically harassed and even sometimes 
assassinated. Few independent media outlets exist; wide-scale 
corruption which has begun to affect major U.S. companies doing 
business in Kazakhstan is rampant; respect for human rights, religious 
freedom, and freedom of speech or economic liberalization is non-
existent.

The United States has sought a mutually beneficial relationship with 
Kazakhstan and provides aid to Kazakhstan in order to enhance economic 
growth, democracy, security, and civil society and to attend to 
humanitarian needs. However, it is evident that the current U.S.-
Kazakhstan relationship is compromised by Kazakhstan's record of human 
rights violations and lack of immediate and necessary reforms while 
chairing the OSCE. The U.S. Department of State has criticized 
President Nazarbayev's government for human rights violations. Its 
March 2009 report states: ''The following human rights problems were 
reported: severe limits on citizens' rights to change their government; 
military hazing that led to deaths; detainee and prisoner torture and 
other abuse; unhealthy prison conditions; arbitrary arrest and 
detention; lack of an independent judiciary; restrictions on freedom of 
speech, the press, assembly, and association; pervasive corruption, 
especially in law enforcement and the judicial system; prohibitive 
political party registration requirements; restrictions on the 
activities of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs); discrimination and 
violence against women; trafficking in persons; and societal 
discrimination.''

The details in the report, as well as reports from observer groups, 
are haunting. Two notable external groups are Freedom House and the 
United States Department of State. The observer group, Freedom House, 
has labeled Kazakhstan as ''not free'' and according to its assessment, 
Kazakhstan has earned a 6 ranking in Political Liberties and a 5 in 
Civil Liberties on the Freedom House scale of 1 to 7, 7 being the worst 
ranking possible. Even the U.S. State Department ranks Kazakhstan as a 
Tier 2 Watch List, meaning that Kazakhstan is a cause for concern over 
human trafficking issues.

In amending the constitution to allow him unlimited reign in 2007, 
President Nazarbayev joined a growing list of authoritarian leaders 
worldwide who have extended their terms indefinitely.

I applaud the work of the Helsinki Commission under the current 
leadership of Senator Ben Cardin, and previously, Congressman Alcee 
Hastings, for their ongoing commitment to bringing these matters to 
light and it is my hope that we continue work to bring about a 
transparent democracy where human rights violations and corruption have 
no place.
