# None
## `d90276f81094ec39a0f4651bc479d831`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, our Democratic friends thought they 
were going to teach Republicans a lesson today on how to proceed in 
Iraq. Instead, Americans got an object lesson on why Democrats have 
failed to accomplish any of their goals over the last 7 months.

As to this fanciful notion that we have never had 60-vote thresholds 
on votes, Democrats agreed just this year to 60-vote thresholds on at 
least five Iraq-related votes: the Reid sense of the Congress on Iraq, 
the Murray sense of the Congress on Iraq, the Gregg sense of the 
Congress on Iraq, the Hagel amendment to H.R. 1585 relating to 
deployment time, and the Graham amendment to H.R. 1585 relating to 
deployment time--at least five Iraq votes that have been subject to 60 
votes.

Now, Republicans have repeatedly offered Democrats an opportunity to 
have a vote on the Levin amendment according to the traditional 60-vote 
threshold. Democrats themselves have insisted on 60-vote thresholds for 
judges, for example. We could have had the vote this morning and moved 
on to other business, like finishing this very important underlying 
bill and getting the men and women in the military what they need and 
deserve.

What is at stake, Mr. President? Iraq's Foreign Minister, Hoshyar 
Zebari, recently told reporters:




 The dangers could be a civil war, dividing the country, 


 regional wars, and the collapse of the state.


The same sentiment has been echoed recently by political figures from 
the Sunni Arab community, which had been the least supportive of the 
U.S. presence after the collapse of Saddam's Sunni-dominated 
government.

Foreign Minister Zebari has also credited multinational forces for 
keeping Turkey from occupying northern Iraq. This is what he recently 
had to say:




 Tomorrow, another country will set its sights on Iraq--


 Iran, Syria, and others have certain interests, ambitions, 


 and interferences. Ironically, it is this presence that is 


 preserving Iraq's unity; this deterrent is preventing the 


 outbreak of an all-out sectarian civil war, and perhaps 


 regional wars as well.


Now, the National Intelligence Estimate released today said al-Qaida 
will ''leverage the contacts and capabilities of al-Qaida in Iraq, its 
most visible and capable affiliate and the only one known to have 
expressed a desire to attack us here in the United States.''

Yesterday, the U.N. Secretary General, Ban Kimoon, warned that an 
abrupt withdrawal may, ''lead to a further deterioration of the 
situation in Iraq.''

Now, what do the terrorists themselves say? What do they say, the 
terrorists themselves?

The Islamic State of Iraq announced during our last debate in April 
that certain members of Congress had declared the War in Iraq hopeless.

Those are the words of the terrorists themselves. And here is Osama 
bin Laden himself, quoted from an Al Jazeera broadcast last April. This 
is what Osama bin Laden said:




 The epicenter of these wars is Baghdad, the seat of the 


 caliphate rule. They keep reiterating success in Baghdad will 


 be success for the U.S., failure in Iraq the failure of the 


 U.S. Their defeat in Iraq will mean defeat in all of their 


 wars and the beginning to the receding of their Zionist-


 Crusader tide against us.


That is from the lips of Osama bin Laden.

Now, our Democratic friends have tried to have it both ways on Iraq 
for too long. They voted to send General Petraeus to Iraq by a 
unanimous vote, even as many of them undercut his mission and the 
morale of our troops by declaring it a failure. They voted to fund that 
mission even after working for more than 3 months to undercut it 
through legislation that would render it impossible to carry out. And 
now they have taken the unprecedented step of hijacking a Defense 
authorization bill to undercut the framework they agreed to when they 
funded the mission back in May.

So let's take a look, my friends and colleagues, at what we agreed to 
back in May. The conference report that 80 Senators voted for in May 
required a benchmarks report in July and a report from General Petraeus 
and Ambassador Crocker in September.

We chose July for the benchmarks report because the Baghdad Security 
Plan would be fully manned, and we wanted the Iraqi Government to know 
we expected their cooperation and sacrifice in exchange for ours. We 
chose September because that is when General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker planned to give the President an update on the 
counterinsurgency plan currently underway. We thought it reasonable 
that we get the same assessment to form an appropriate legislative 
response.

The Congress decided in May that 1 month of a fully manned surge was 
insufficient to call the Petraeus plan a failure. We wrote that 
decision into law. Since May, we have learned that progress is mixed. 
Many of the military tasks assigned have been achieved, and we have not 
seen sufficient progress on the political benchmarks. Some of our 
colleagues have refrained from calling for a change in strategy until 
they hear what General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker have to say in 
September. Actually, there is really no good argument that Ambassador 
Crocker and General Petraeus deserve an opportunity to be heard when 
these significant reports come out in September.

So I would ask our colleagues on the other side to think of the 
tangle we are in. Republicans have asked repeatedly to move up the 
cloture vote on the Levin troop withdrawal amendment. They have blocked 
us every time because they prefer the theater of the all-nighter. We 
were elected to legislate, not to strut across a stage. This isn't 
Hollywood. This is real life here in the Senate. Much depends on how we 
conduct ourselves right here and how we conduct ourselves in this 
debate.

We have heard the warnings from people who know the dangers that lurk 
in Iraq, and now I have a warning of my own to my colleagues on the 
other side. Our commanders, our troops, and the millions of brave men 
and women who have stood with us in Iraq and who live in danger of the 
creeping prospect of precipitous withdrawal, deserve a lot better than 
they are getting in this debate. They deserve our resolve and, at the 
very least, they deserve us to keep the pledge we made as recently as 
last May.

It is time to put an end to this charade. The stakes are entirely too 
high.

Mr. President, I yield the floor