# HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE OF FIRST SERGEANT LUKE J. MERCARDANTE
## `d915384e4a223c1610c583f72fcc884b`
`Mr. ISSA — 24 April 2008`

---


Mr. ISSA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and service 
of United States Marine First Sergeant Luke J. Mercardante.

Luke Mercardante was the First Sergeant for Combat Logistics 
Battalion 24, the logistics element of the 24th Marine Expeditionary 
Unit. Luke was 35 when killed in the line of duty on April 16th in 
Kandahar province of Afghanistan while serving in Operation Iraqi 
Freedom.

First Sergeant Mercardante's position required him to serve as a 
leader, but leadership came naturally. He is remembered for his love 
for country and ability to inspire those around him. Other Marines 
described him as the ''picture-perfect Marine.''

Mercardante enlisted in the Marine Corps in 1992, graduating from 
Parris Island as the company honor graduate. He later served on a 
deserter apprehension team and was responsible for apprehending more 
than 130 deserters. As a drill instructor at Marine Corps Recruit Depot 
Parris Island. Mercardante trained more than 1,200 men, turning them 
from civilians into Marines. Later, he served at Camp Lejeune, North 
Carolina as the training chief and brig security for the base. He was 
assigned to the Virginia Military Institute as the assistant Marine 
officer instructor and was voted an honorary member of the class of 
2007, as well as faculty mentor of the year in 2005.

First Sergeant Mercardante's personal decorations include the Navy 
and Marine Corps Commendation Medal with 3 gold stars in lieu of 4th 
award, Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal with 1 gold star in lieu 
of 2nd award, and the Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal.

Luke was engaged to Kimberly Hull and planned to marry when he 
returned from Afghanistan. He is survived by Kimberly, his mother 
Gertrude, father Patrick, brothers Patrick Jr., Frank and Mark, sister 
Bridget and his children Luke II and Cailin.

On behalf of the people of the United States whom he served with 
courage and valor, we honor and commemorate the life and service of 
First Sergeant Luke J. Mercardante.
