---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `d943b395f0df7edc43ec5593447b2160`
`Mrs. BOXER — 16 May 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, last November, the American people voted 
to end the President's one-man show in Iraq. I think the Chair 
understands that very well, given that he was victorious in November, 
and a lot of the questions surrounded what are we going to do about 
Iraq, this terrible failed policy.

Today, we have an amazing opportunity, and I thank Senator Reid for 
giving us that opportunity, to vote to end this war now, and to do it 
in a way that is responsible, to do it in a way that is gradual, to do 
it in a way that makes a lot of sense.

The Feingold amendment essentially shifts the mission away from a 
combat mission to a support mission. It is very clear the President 
will get the funding he needs for the following things. Our troops will 
be funded to go after al-Qaida. After all, that was the primary purpose 
we declared after 9/11, and I voted to go to war to get al-Qaida, and 
to get bin Laden. Then the administration took a U-turn and got us off 
course into Iraq.

Our military has been superb. They have done everything they have 
been asked to do, from searching for those weapons of mass destruction, 
ascertaining there were none; and then, apparently, the mission wasn't 
done. The President said, get Saddam. They got Saddam. Oops, the 
mission still wasn't done. After that, he said, get his family members 
and show them on television and show the people we mean business. But 
the mission still wasn't done.



Then there were three elections in Iraq, to give the Iraqis a chance 
to choose their own leaders. We train and train and train Iraqi 
soldiers and police, where there are now about 300,000. If they can't 
defend and protect their own country, if they do not love the chance to 
have freedom as much as we love it for them, then I say it is time to 
change this mission. Keep on going after al-Qaida. Yes, you can keep 
training those troops if they need our help in that, and force 
protection. Those would be the missions. The Feingold amendment gives 
us this chance.

The President has derided any attempt Congress has made to end this 
war. He says, why should politicians get involved with this? Well, let 
me say why I think the Senate should get involved. Because it is our 
constituents, just as it is the President's constituents, who are dying 
in Iraq. In front of my office door I have these large boards that list 
the names of the dead, and 21 percent of the dead were either born in 
California or they were based in California--21 percent. So I will not 
allow this President to tell me I have no right to try to end this war. 
I have every right to try to end this war, and I will stand shoulder to 
shoulder with my colleagues, as I did from day one when 23 of us said 
this war was a bad idea.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have an additional 1 
minute.