---
---

# None
## `d96cd464e1d2262b43ab86e3c939621e`
`Mr. CARDIN — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Madam. President, I rise today to express my support for 
H.R. 3222, the fiscal year 2008 Department of Defense Appropriations 
bill. We have no greater obligation as elected officials, than to take 
care of our troops and their families who have sacrificed on our 
behalf. I am proud to support my colleagues on the Appropriations 
Committee who have crafted a bill that sets the right priorities for 
our military and our country by providing critical equipment and 
training, strengthening military health care for our troops and their 
families, and giving our military families the pay raise they deserve.

The legislation before us today provides over $1 billion more for 
National Guard equipment than the administration requested. This 
funding is critical, not only to support National Guard troops who are 
fighting for our country overseas but to the Guard's ability to protect 
us here at home. National Guard units across the country have been 
giving up the great majority of their equipment to units headed to Iraq 
and Afghanistan. The resulting shortages were felt just recently in 
Greenburg, KS, when that town was flattened by a tornado. Kansas 
Governor Kathleen Sebelius said the State's response was hampered 
because much of the equipment usually positioned around the State to 
respond to emergencies was in Iraq.

While Maryland does not face the same threat of tornadoes, my home 
State, like every State, has its own unique challenges. Maryland must 
be prepared to respond not only to hurricanes and severe snow storms 
but to attacks against Federal assets in the national capital region. 
After the mobilization of several Maryland Guard units to Iraq, the 
Guard has said it is without the necessary equipment to provide the 
robust response that Marylanders and the rest of our Nation expect. 
H.R. 3222 takes action to address this critical shortfall in my State 
and every State.

This important bill provides military personnel 3.5 percent pay 
raise, half a percent more than the administration requested. President 
Bush has threatened to veto this bill over the 0.5 percent additional 
increase stating that the ''[t]roops don't need bigger pay raises.'' 
Well, I disagree.

The 3 percent raise would be enough to keep pace with the average 
increase in private sector wages last year. The 3.5 percent raise is 
enough to not just match the private sector but to slightly close the 
estimated 4 percent gap that remains between average military and 
private sector raises. This gap hurts recruiting and retention for our 
All-Volunteer Force and is not a handicap our military should shoulder 
when the war effort has forced the military to increase its overall 
size at the same time it has depressed recruiting efforts.

H.R. 3222 makes care for our mentally and physically wounded military 
men and women a priority. The legislation adds $948.9 million above the 
President's request for military health care, totaling $23.5 billion. 
Of the $23.5 billion, $486 million was added to reverse planned cuts to 
military hospitals.

In addition, H.R. 3222 provides significant funds to develop 
treatments for the signature injuries of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan including brain injury and loss of limbs. Uncontrolled 
internal or external hemorrhage is the foremost preventable cause of 
death in the prehospital period for military combat trauma. Some 50 
percent of the deaths our troops have suffered in Iraq and Afghanistan 
could have been prevented if better products were available to control 
bleeding.

The measure provides $73 million to fund programs authorized in the 
Senate-passed Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warrior Act. The Wounded 
Warriors bill addresses the urgent medical needs of wounded 
servicemembers, especially those suffering from post-traumatic stress 
disorder and traumatic brain injuries.

I am particularly proud that H.R. 3222 funds promising techniques 
being pioneered in Maryland to develop bandages that are capable of 
stopping severe bleeding in the field and limb and tissue transplants 
that are viable over the many years we hope our young wounded warriors 
will live after returning home from war.

H.R. 3222 places a premium not only on providing our troops the 
equipment they need to avoid injury in the first place but to develop 
better technology going forward. The legislation provides $75.4 
billion, $268.9 million above the administration's request for 
research, development, test, and evaluation of new technologies. Some 
money will go to folks in Maryland developing methods of detecting 
explosives at a greater distance as well as hybrid and alternative fuel 
source engines. These engines not only reduce our dependence on oil and 
decrease emissions; they reduce the need to ship fuel along supply 
routes in Iraq and Afghanistan that have been a point of vulnerability 
for our forces.

Today, I am proud to be part of a body that is meeting its 
obligations to our troops, their families, and our military as an 
institution. I applaud Senators Byrd, Cochran, Inouye, and Stevens and 
my other colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for their excellent 
work and look forward to quick passage of this critical legislation.