# IN THE MATTER OF REPRESENTATIVE CHARLES B. RANGEL OF NEW YORK
## `d96d99039f4c54ac27e18d2eed1e2778`
`Mr. BONNER â€” 2 December 2010`

---


Mr. BONNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

This is a sad day, but a necessary day, to complete final action on a 
matter that honestly should have been concluded with a public trial. 
Mr. Rangel chose to walk out of that hearing and failed to present his 
case. Instead, we are left with a vote, an important vote, I would 
suggest, not only for Mr. Rangel, but equally a significant vote for 
this House as an institution and for how we are seen by our employers, 
the American people.

Watching at home, some are probably looking on with a curiosity of 
sorts as we dispense with this unpleasant yet constitutionally mandated 
responsibility to punish our own when necessary.

In fairness, today's action may also confirm what many of us already 
know--that Washington, D.C. truly is disconnected from the real 
challenges and worries that much of the rest of America is facing every 
day: the angst of a father whose son is standing guard in some 
dangerous remote location in Afghanistan, or the uncertainty of that 
single mom who was just told this week that she had been fired. Not 
only does she have to worry about whether she can afford Christmas for 
her children, but whether she can pay the car note or the rent without 
a job.


All across America, these are the real life crises that our 
constituents are facing. And yet here on the House floor, one of our 
colleagues is dealing with something that to him, and I believe to all 
of us, should be considered a serious matter and one that deserves our 
utmost attention.

As I noted back on July 29 when the investigative subcommittee 
reported this case, there is no debate but that Congressman Charles 
Rangel has led a compelling life story, one that all of us, including 
myself, can respect. He was a private, as his autobiography said, left 
to die on that battlefield in North Korea. He earned the Purple Heart 
and the Bronze Star for bravery. And he was a fatherless high school 
dropout who went from pushing that handcart in the streets of New York 
City to becoming one of the most powerful figures on Capitol Hill. We 
all know the story.

But my friends, Mr. Rangel's life story is not why we are here. After 
all, every American has their own unique story to tell. Regretfully, 
this is a day that did not have to be if only Mr. Rangel had settled 
for the lesser sanctions that today he hopes this body will somehow 
consider.

During the course of the investigation, he was given multiple 
opportunities to settle. Instead, he chose to fight on, declaring his 
innocence in saying the committee did not have a case.

If only Mr. Rangel had paid his taxes, as we are all required to do. 
As chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, he certainly knew 
something about requiring Americans to pay their taxes.



But the Ethics Committee found by clear and convincing evidence that 
Mr. Rangel himself had failed to pay his taxes for 17 years, violating 
U.S. as well as State and local tax laws on income derived from his 
beach villa in the Dominican Republic.

My friends, when you go back home this weekend try explaining to your 
constituents that it's okay for a powerful Member of Congress, the 
chairman of the tax-writing committee, to not pay his taxes. Just don't 
ask your constituents to do the same.

If Mr. Rangel had just used the Ethics Committee as it is intended to 
be used, to give advice and counsel on how we can use our names to 
benefit worthy causes, such as creating a school for underprivileged 
minority students to encourage them to consider public service. There's 
nothing wrong with that idea. Actually, it is rooted in the most noble 
of American missions: education. But rather than finding out how he 
could do it the right way and legally, Mr. Rangel instead chose to use 
both his personal and committee staff, as well as other official 
resources of his office, to help solicit donations of up to $30 million 
each for a school and library to ensure his legacy. Donations from some 
of the 100 biggest and wealthiest corporations in America, many of whom 
had direct interests before this very committee that he chaired. The 
Ethics Committee found by clear and convincing evidence that Mr. Rangel 
solicited those donations from the very lobbyists of those companies 
who were coming before his committee.

As Members of Congress, we are all required to file financial 
disclosure statements. It's not easy to do, and sometimes it's easy to 
make a mistake. But again, this committee found on clear and convincing 
evidence that Mr. Rangel for 10 years failed to file his reports 
promptly, and they had numerous omissions, including the failure to 
disclose over a half a million dollars.

Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues, there is a lot to be said today,


and a lot has been said. Keep this in mind as you consider the report 
of the only truly bipartisan committee that stands in this Congress, 
the only one that's evenly divided, and sent this recommendation of 
censure to you for your consideration.

Mr. Rangel is a man who has spent more years on the Hill than all but 
five of our colleagues, and he has served his district for longer than 
26 of our Members have been alive. Even so, this recommendation of 
censure was not made lightly, and it was not made without respect for 
the totality of his life or the seriousness and number of charges for 
which he has been found guilty.

It is a sad day for sure, Mr. Speaker. But now the entire House has a 
responsibility to join the Ethics Committee in rendering your judgment. 
I have no doubt that the people that we work for will be watching with 
interest.

I yield back the balance of my time.