---
---

# None
## `d96d776f25f3db2b3664d036d3047495`
`Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia — 9 October 2007`

---


Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose this 
bill, not because I oppose punishing war profiteers or punishing 
corruption in contracting. I think these are critical, important 
laudable goals.

I oppose this bill because creating a new law ''involving a contract 
or the provision of goods or services to the United States'' is a 
matter which must be considered in relation to the existing Federal 
acquisition systems, which this bill is not. Any attempt to legislate 
without considering the current system can have disastrous, albeit 
unintended, consequences which in this case include serious criminal 
penalties.

As others have said today, we all agree that fraud against the United 
States undermines national security and there must be severe penalties 
for it. And of course we all agree corruption of any kind is 
unacceptable. Our committee in the last Congress held several hearings 
on contracting in Iraq and the difficulties that were faced there. And 
if the current law is inadequate to punish wrongdoers for these 
offenses, Congress should act.

But taking up this bill in this way at this time proves to me that 
some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are caring about 
passing a bill so that they can take political potshots at contractors. 
Hundreds of contractors' lives have been lost over in Iraq, and I think 
the widows and the mothers of these sons and daughters who have been 
killed in Iraq would be, I think, chagrined to hear their sons referred 
to as profiteers. In many cases the contractors are more in harm's way 
than our troops. They don't get the body armor. Many of them don't 
operate in the Green Zone or on bases. This is, in fact, a substitute, 
a proxy, if you will, because the majority can't put together a plan to 
end the war in Iraq so we go after contracting in Iraq. I think there 
are some things we could do, but I don't think this bill is the 
appropriate way to get through it. The words in this case don't make 
sense. It's not good law. What you care about is contractor bashing, 
consequences be damned.

It is hard to get good companies to do business in Iraq. It is 
dangerous, it is expensive, it has all kinds of contingencies, and a 
lot of the best companies say we don't want to have anything to do 
with.

The relationship between the government and the contractor is an 
arms-length business one, with many laws outlining how this 
relationship should proceed. Adding additional language to the criminal 
code regarding certain aspects of this relationship will have 
unintended consequences which have to be considered before moving this 
legislation forward.

For example, the bill makes it a crime to materially overvalue a good 
or service. Under the Truth in Negotiation Act, a detailed process is 
already set out in which to address claims of defective pricing in 
Federal contracts. To those who don't know this government contract 
lingo, this might sound like fraudulent behavior.

But defective pricing occurs when a company's contract price is 
significantly increased because the company submitted pricing data that 
was not accurate, complete and current. That's 10 U.S.C. 2306(a). In 
these cases, the government is generally entitled to a price reduction 
to remedy any overcharge by the submission of defective pricing data.

The government takes seriously overpayments based on defective 
pricing and aggressively pursues contractors found to have engaged in 
these practices, in some cases including debarment. A contractor's 
liability can extend beyond the repayment of any overcharges, and under 
current law, can include fraud claims against the contractor.

But under H.R. 400, would an overzealous prosecutor be able to go 
after a company with a defective pricing claim against it as materially 
overvaluing a good or service? Maybe. Maybe not. But we, on the 
Oversight and Government Reform Committee with jurisdiction over 
Federal procurement should have the opportunity to consider this 
language and its impact on the Federal acquisition system.

The interrelationship of procurement law and the criminal law can be 
complicated. We have to be careful not to criminalize procurement 
management matters just because you can. Careful study is required to 
separate criminal behavior from management issues.

I see other problems as well. Allowing a Federal prosecutor to enter 
post hoc determinations on whether a contract provides appropriate 
value to the government would have a chilling effect on a contracting 
officer's decisionmaking.

Contractors would be discouraged from providing innovative solutions 
to government problems for fear that their solutions would subject them 
to charges of material overvaluation if the solution didn't work out as 
planned.

Competition would be discouraged, which is the cornerstone of getting 
the best price and value because prospective contractors could be 
subjected to harsh penalties at the whim of a prosecutor who probably 
doesn't understand the acquisition system.

In fixed price contracts, the price which the government buys would 
likely increase because contractors would have to include the 
possibility of these penalties in their pricing, costing the taxpayers 
money.

In commercial contracts the market dictates what is a fair value, not 
a post hoc prosecutor's determination whether the government got 
appropriate value from the contract.

I support strong penalties for war profiteering. I support strong 
penalties for corruption. I do not support H.R. 400 because I don't 
believe it has been given appropriate consideration by this House and 
numerous unintended consequences.