---
---

# None
## `d97133a8519c94a477b905e538753a9b`
`Mr. DeMINT — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. DeMINT. No, sir, I am going to make my statement. I know we are 
all tired and ready to go home. I do appreciate the work of my 
colleagues. I wish them all a very Merry Christmas and a wonderful time 
with their families. But this is the last bill of the year. It is not 
just any bill. We began the year, all of us, very hopeful. Oftentimes a 
change is helpful as we rethink how we do things. In fact, I began this 
year introducing one of Speaker Pelosi's bills that provided more 
transparency to earmarks that I thought was better than ours. I 
introduced it on the Senate side. But, unfortunately, as we have gone 
through the year, we haven't been able to get our work done.

We like to say we are the world's greatest deliberative body. I have 
to ask my colleagues tonight, on the largest bill we have ever 
considered, the most expensive bill we have ever considered, what 
deliberation?

We don't even know what is in this bill. We haven't had any real 
debate. We are going to try to cut it off in an hour or so. This is a 
couple of times bigger than the Bible. It is bigger than Webster's 
Dictionary. It has some of the most important provisions to direct our 
country over the next year that we could possibly consider. We don't 
even have a desk copy.

I would like to make a few things clear about this bill. This does 
not include the Iraq and Afghanistan money. We voted on that 
separately. It is done. It is going to go back to the House. A vote 
against this bill is not a vote against our troops, but it is a vote 
against how this has been done and the mismanagement that has occurred. 
To bring this much spending and this many provisions, 3,400 pages plus 
in 24 hours, and ask us to vote on it is irresponsible.

There should be no confusion tonight. We are not going to vote on the 
Iraq funding, which we passed. I am here to encourage my colleagues to 
consider for many reasons voting against this omnibus spending bill. I 
am afraid it is indicative of the way we have run this year, as we look 
at this big bill sitting in front of us.

I am afraid the new majority has attempted to cater to so many 
special interests with so many diverse interests that we have really 
become dysfunctional and have not been able to get our work done. They 
cannot really support the funding of the troops or they will irritate 
the antiwar left. They cannot vote for fiscal responsibility or they 
will irritate the special interest lobbyists who need a lot of the 
special projects and earmarks in this bill.

So instead, we have come up with this arcane procedural process. This 
is not really a bill; it is some form of message. And we are going to 
pass it separately so that we can have it both ways and no one can be 
blamed for the mismanagement. But there should be no mistake. Nancy 
Pelosi is the Speaker of the House, and Harry Reid is the Senate 
majority leader. The Democrats are in charge of Congress. This is their 
process. It is their bill. And I am afraid, my colleagues, it is a 
disgrace.

This is the bill. As I have said, it might be the largest bill in the 
Nation's history. It is the most expensive bill in America's history--
3,400 pages-plus; 24 hours to consider its contents. It took over 6 
hours just to print this out. There is one copy in the cloakroom on 
both sides. We have not even read it. It contains over 9,000 earmarks. 
If we can see this chart over this large stack of legislation: 9,100 
earmarks, plus the 2,100 that have already been passed.

If you remember, a lot of the culture of corruption we talked about 
at the beginning of this year was attributed to the earmarks--trading 
earmarks for bribes and earmarks for campaign contributions. The new 
majority promised the American people, with my support, that we would 
reduce the number of earmarks significantly.

One of the last acts of the Republican majority was to stop the big 
omnibus last year and to force a continuing resolution where the result 
was only 2,600 earmarks.

Those who say this large number of earmarks has always been a part of 
the Senate do not know our history. All you have to do is go back to 
1995: 1,400 earmarks. If you go back past then, there were fewer than 
that.

This is not a constitutional function. It has not been part of the 
history of the Senate. This growth in earmarks is a perversion of the 
purpose of this Congress, where we have changed our focus from national 
interests, the future of this country, to parochial, special interests 
that we work on every year and hardly even talk about those issues that 
challenge our Nation--such as a Tax Code that is sending jobs overseas; 
entitlement programs, where we do not have a clue how we are going to 
pay for them; health care, when people cannot receive it in our 
country. We are fighting over bike paths and museums and little special 
projects all year long.

This year, with the new majority, we are back up to the second 
highest level in history of the number of earmarks, special project 
earmarks, that we are supporting in this bill right here, and we do not 
even know everything that is in it as yet. It contains at least $20 
billion in budget gimmicks and so-called emergency spending. I could go 
down the list. It would put a lot of people to sleep. There are a 
number of ridiculous provisions that we are just finding.



The serious debate over immigration came down to at least one 
starting solution: that we are going to secure our borders. We voted 
the money to build fence and barriers on our borders. But this bill 
changes what we have already passed. It allows for only a single-layer 
fence and takes out the requirement for the location of the fence in 
States, that the money cannot be released until 15 new requirements 
authored by the Appropriations Committee are satisfied. It is just 
designed to delay what the American people made clear to us earlier in 
the year. They want us to have a country with secure borders. This bill 
changes that. It also provides $10 million to pay for lawyers for 
illegal aliens.

The English requirement. The Senate passed language earlier in the 
year to ensure that employers are not subjected to Government-funded 
lawsuits if they require English in the workplace. This bill takes that 
protection away from employers and exposes them to lawsuits because 
they need English spoken in the workplace.

Sanctuary cities. The prohibition against sanctuary cities was taken 
out.

There are special earmarks for the AFL-CIO, a number of others.

We could go down the list. Again, we are just starting to find out 
what is in the bill. I know very few Senators here tonight know what is 
really in it.

The organizations that are watching this Congress to try to identify 
waste are going to be key voting this tonight. I think my colleagues 
know they consider that a very serious issue. The Citizens Against 
Government Waste are saying vote no. The Club for Growth says vote no. 
The American Conservative Union says vote no. The Americans for 
Prosperity: No. Americans for Tax Reform: No. National Taxpayers Union. 
We can continue to go down the list. All the organizations that 
downloaded this off the Web last night and began looking through it 
within an hour or two found things that made it unacceptable.

It is an unacceptable bill, and it should not be part of the world's 
greatest deliberative body tonight. But I think we agreed--I think the 
American people asked the new majority to end business as usual. I hope 
we can do that tonight. I hope we can give the American taxpayers a 
real Christmas present and stop wasting their money, stop breaking the 
promises. While we are making all the new promises in here, we are not 
making provisions to keep the promises we make.

I know most of my colleagues believe this is not the way we should be 
running the Senate and that they would like for there to be a better 
way. We do not have to vote against the troops to vote against this 
bill. I would encourage my Democratic colleagues, many of them who have 
stood with us this year on earmark reform, that is one reason alone to 
vote against this bill: the policy changes, the moving more money to 
Planned Parenthood, the compromising of our border security. The list 
is getting longer and longer, and we are not even a quarter of the way 
down the bill yet.

I encourage my colleagues to join the American people and help us 
stop wasteful spending. This is the last bill of the year. It is the 
last vote. It is going to say a lot about this Congress and what we 
have accomplished. This is our chance to at least say: No more business 
as usual. We are not going to do business this way, where we pile 
3,400-plus pages on a desk, in 24 hours, and ask the Senators of this 
country to vote for it without even knowing what is in it. It is not 
the way to run a Senate. It is not the way to run a country.

I plead with my colleagues, let's leave this year on a positive note. 
Vote against this omnibus and give Americans a real Christmas present.

Thank you, Mr. President. I yield back.