---
---

# WEEK OF THE YOUNG CHILD
## `d9726c399990b62ee52344d5b6d6de35`
`Ms. CLARKE — 14 April 2008`

---


Ms. CLARKE. Would the gentlewoman yield a moment? It is an 
imperative. As I have said, since I've been on the Hill these past 15 
months and have looked just about every crisis in the eye from mortgage 
foreclosure to the war in Iraq to you name it, education, health care, 
it all points back to the fact that we are at a specific juncture in 
our Nation's history that requires courage. And that means the courage 
to make the proper investments for the growth and development of our 
Nation.

There is no more worthy an investment for us to make than in these 
children, than our children, our Nation's children. They will be 
inheriting from us a millstone around their ankles if we don't do right 
by them today.

With the challenges that we are facing in terms of the debt build-up 
in this Nation, it is going to take a whole group of really smart 
people, really intelligent folk, who use the ingenuity of who we are as 
Americans to take us to the next level. That investment starts now. You 
can't invest it in me. It's too late for me. The investment is in our 
children.

So I thank the gentlelady again. This is a very important special 
order that we are here, we are at the advent of the Week of the Young 
Child and that we are speaking out for those families that don't have a 
voice here, that don't have the high-paid lobbyists, that are really 
working every day, and they come home, they hug their babies and they 
just want an opportunity for that baby to succeed.

In many instances, those children are struggling like salmon swimming 
upstream in environments that are less than wholesome. And were they to 
be in an early childhood education setting, they would be sure to get a 
nutritious meal every day. They would have a loving caregiver that also 
is there to stimulate the growth of the intellect and the brain. And 
that is why these dollars that are requested, which are really not 
breaking the bank by any means, are so critical and can reap such 
dividends in the long run if we do right by them today.