# None
## `d97c60614cc8f9a33b423e45322073d2`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, H. Res. 873 waives clause 6(a) of rule XIII, which 
requires a two-thirds vote to consider a rule on the same day it is 
reported from the Rules Committee. This waiver would apply to any rule 
reported on December 17 that provides for consideration of the omnibus 
appropriations bill or the Senate-amended energy bill. Madam Speaker, 
the Rules Committee has reported a separate rule for the energy bill, 
but the House is not expected to take up the Senate-amended energy bill 
tonight.

With passage of this rule, the House will move one step closer to 
passing the omnibus appropriations bill that will fund the government 
outside of the Department of Defense, which we have already funded. 
It's an important bill, and although it is not everything I wanted, I 
believe it deserves to be approved in its current form.

Madam Speaker, Democrats took over the majority in the House and the 
Senate with a promise of a new direction for America. The House moved 
an aggressive and positive agenda forward, including the timely 
consideration and passage of the fiscal year 2008 appropriations bills. 
Unfortunately, the President and the Republican leadership of the House 
and the Senate are still stuck in the past. Instead of working with 
Democrats in moving towards a new direction, the Republican leaders in 
the House and Senate did everything they possibly could to delay and 
obstruct the process until we had no option but to bring an omnibus 
appropriations bill to the floor.

In fact, the Senate minority leader, Senator McConnell, actively 
blocked consideration of these appropriations bills. Why would the 
Republican leadership block these bills from even being considered in 
the Senate? The answer, Madam Speaker, is that they were playing 
politics. Instead of allowing important funding for our roads and 
bridges, funding for the sick and the hungry, funding to protect our 
food system and funding for homeland security, the Republican 
leadership decided to block these funds to try to score political 
points.

So when my friends on the other side of the aisle complain that we 
are not considering these bills individually, remember that they were 
the ones that prevented us from doing just that. That's unfortunate but 
it's reality. The reality is that because of Senate rules, it takes 60 
votes to order pizza, let alone to consider and vote on important 
pieces of legislation.

All told, the Democratic majority wanted to pass appropriations bills 
that were fully paid for and that increased spending by $22 billion 
over the President's request. The President and his allies here in 
Congress said, No, no, that's too much. That's too much for education, 
too much for health care, too much for medical research, too much for 
veterans. The irony, of course, is that the President continues to ask 
for hundreds of billions of dollars for the war in Iraq, none of it 
paid for. Billions to patch the alternative minimum tax, none of it 
paid for.

Some of my Republican friends, as I read in the press, are now 
proclaiming a great ''victory'' because the omnibus bill meets the 
President's top-line number. Let's take a look at that.

Because of the Republicans, there will be fewer medical research 
grants at NIH than Democrats would have liked. ''Congratulations,'' I 
guess.

Because of Republicans, there will be fewer cops on the beat than 
Democrats would have liked. ''Job well done,'' I suppose.

Because of the Republicans, there is less funding for important 
education programs that Democrats would have liked. ''Mission 
accomplished,'' my Republican friends.

The fact is that this Republican so-called ''victory'' is hollow at 
best. And I've been wracking my brain all day, but I just can't 
remember the Republican campaign commercial from last fall that said, 
''Vote for me and I'll follow the President off the cliff and spend 
billions more in Iraq while I cut domestic priorities.'' Maybe that 
commercial did exist and it just didn't run in Massachusetts.

Despite all of that and despite the Republican obstruction, Chairman 
Obey has put together a bill that makes important new investments in 
our national priorities. More money than the President wanted for 
medical research and rural health. More money than the President wanted 
for K-12 education. More money than the President wanted for renewable 
energy and energy efficiency. More money than the President wanted for 
homeland security, for local law enforcement, for our crumbling 
infrastructure. And perhaps most importantly, more money than the 
President wanted and requested for our veterans. All of that changed, 
all of that progress because of this new Democratic majority.

Madam Speaker, unlike last year, we are getting our work done. We are 
completing our appropriations bills, not kicking the can down the road 
with another continuing resolution, which is what the Republicans did 
last year when they controlled both Houses of Congress and the White 
House, I should add. And the same-day rule before us takes us one step 
closer to making that happen.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.