---
---

# None
## `d98e7eeaa2660bc1e0786208e570fa7b`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, it is suggested we should not be 
discussing Iraq. Well, the last time I checked, the majority leader 
sets the agenda. The majority leader brought up Iraq, and if he wants 
to bring up Iraq, we can discuss Iraq.

I too am wondering why it is being brought up because we have other 
important issues we could be dealing with. For example, I wish to see 
the Congress turn its attention to a pro-growth economic package, a 
discussion of how we can help this economy move. I think once we have 
that opportunity to debate, we will have a good, principled exchange of 
ideas here.

My suspicion is that from the other side of the aisle we will hear a 
number of expensive spending proposals, and from our side of the aisle 
we will hear a different agenda, an agenda that says we want a bigger, 
bolder, broader pro-growth economic agenda so we can move this economy 
in a more positive direction.

Part of that would have to do with lower tax rates for individuals, 
such as to permanently reduce the dividend, capital gains, and estate 
tax rates to 15 percent. Part of it would be to lower corporate tax 
rates, reducing the capital gains tax for corporations from 35 percent 
to 25 percent so our companies in America can compete in the world. 
Part of it would be indexing the capital gains tax for inflation so 
that double taxation of capital would at least reflect inflation. Part 
of it would be something that many Members of this Chamber have talked 
about for a long time: a simpler, flatter tax, giving taxpayers the 
option of filing a 1-page return with a 17-percent flat tax rate.

I wish to see--and I plan to introduce within the next few days--
legislation that would make permanent the expensing provisions for 
small business that we passed in a bipartisan way before the recess in 
the pro-growth package to help stimulate the economy. Those provisions 
increased the small business expensing limits and allowed a 50 percent 
bonus depreciation.


Now it is not unusual to hear Republicans talking about lower tax 
rates. But that is only a part of--a part of--what we would propose if 
our debate were here for a pro-growth economic package. I wish to see 
us bring up Senator Isakson's proposal, which would create a $5,000-a-
year, 3-year tax credit for buyers of foreclosed or new homes to get 
buyers back in the marketplace.

I wish to see us begin to more seriously implement the America 
COMPETES Act. That is part of a pro-growth agenda as well. We worked 
hard in this Chamber across party lines for 2 years to advance 
legislation to increase our nation's competitiveness in the global 
economy. The President made a priority of it. He said we ought to have 
an 18 percent increase in funding for the physical sciences in this 
year's budget. We should talk about that and make a commitment to make 
room in the budget for that so we can double funding in the physical 
sciences over the next 5 years so we can keep our brainpower advantage 
so our jobs will not go overseas.

As one Senator, I want to see that we continue to in-source 
brainpower for new jobs by pinning a green card on the lapel of every 
foreign student who earns a degree in science, technology, engineering, 
or mathematics from a U.S. university, and who is legally here and 
passes a background check. We could have a good debate here in the 
Chamber about whether it is a good idea to do that. I think it is.

We have 570,000-something foreign students here. Why would we attract 
the brightest people in the world to study here and make them promise 
to go home and create new jobs in India and in China? Let's create them 
here.

We could make the research and development tax credit permanent. We 
could have a full-day debate about how to improve our schools. I see 
the Senator from New Hampshire is in the Chamber; he was one of the 
principal authors of the No Child Left Behind Act. There is a provision 
in that legislation which is called the Teacher Incentive Fund. It 
tackles one of the most difficult problems in American education. How 
do you reward outstanding teaching? Well, you cannot do


it from Washington. But you can fund it from Washington, so in 
Philadelphia and in Phoenix and in Memphis school leaders and teachers 
are part of plans where you pay them more for leading well and pay them 
more for teaching well.

I did that in Tennessee in 1983 when I was Governor. Mr. President, 
10,000 teachers went up a career ladder. As soon as I left, its 
opponents killed it. But teacher after teacher comes back to me saying 
they wish it were still there. Every time we have a hearing on 
education, we hear the need to keep and attract outstanding teachers.

We could talk about and debate--and I am sure we would debate--Pell 
Grants for Kids. Why not give vouchers to poor kids so they can go to 
some of the schools that people with money go to?

Why not go ahead and implement the provisions in the America COMPETES 
Act for adding 10,000 math and science teachers, and give a million and 
a half more low-income children the opportunity to take Advanced 
Placement tests?

If we want to talk about growing the economy, we can do that. We 
could talk about stopping runaway lawsuits and enacting small business 
health plans. We can talk about lower energy costs. We can talk about 
lowering the cost of Government. Or we can talk about Iraq.

I have been one of those who, over time, has had some difference of 
opinion with the President on Iraq. I thought he should have embraced 
the Iraq Study Group plan as soon as it came out: Put Secretary Baker, 
Congressman Hamilton, and the other members of the Iraq Study Group up 
there in the Gallery and honor them and accept their suggestions.