---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2446, AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND  SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007
## `d99e64a5299b91562551518e45a83fe9`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 453 provides for 
consideration of H.R. 2446, the Afghanistan Freedom and Security 
Support Act of 2007 under a structured rule that makes in order all of 
the amendments that were submitted to the Rules Committee, except for 
those withdrawn by their sponsors.

I want to acknowledge and express my respect for the work of Chairman 
Lantos and Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen for bringing such a fine example 
of bipartisan cooperation and collaboration before the House for 
consideration.

Following the ouster of the Taliban regime in late 2001, the United 
States, the United Nations and the international community embarked on 
what they hoped would be a comprehensive assistance program to help the 
new Afghan president, of President Hamid Karzai, establish a new 
democracy, rebuild the Afghan economy and provide for the general well-
being of the Afghan people.

Regrettably, after a most promising start, progress has slowed in 
most parts of the country. Remnants of the Taliban continue to resist 
the new government and are reorganizing and strengthening their 
networks from neighboring countries. Instability has increased, 
including the introduction of suicide bombings against U.S. soldiers, 
NATO troops, Afghan officials, and civilians and international and 
Afghan humanitarian aid workers.

Narcotics production threatens to overwhelm the country. According to 
UN studies, a large percentage of Afghans, including farmers, laborers, 
traffickers, war lords, insurgents, and officials participate in and 
benefit from illegal poppy trade.

Congress first addressed the issue aiding Afghanistan by passing the 
Afghanistan Freedom Support Act of 2002, which established a 
reconstruction program, mandated a relief coordinator, provided support 
to the NATO-led international security forces, and gave new security 
assistance authority to our President.

In addition to food aid, refugee relief and other forms of emergency 
disaster assistance, the United States implemented a wide-ranging 
assistance program for Afghanistan, including aid for schools, 
hospitals and farms, and support to reestablish the participation of 
women and girls in society, education and the workplace.

The legislation the House will take up today, H.R. 2446, reauthorizes 
programs created by the original Afghanistan Freedom Support Act, 
creates a new focus on counternarcotics efforts, and provides for 
stronger and more enhanced oversight of U.S. strategic goals and 
performance in Afghanistan.

Overall, H.R. 2446 provides modest increases in authorized levels for 
humanitarian, development, democracy building and security assistance. 
I cannot stress enough how important it is that Afghanistan succeed in 
establishing and consolidating a representative government and 
rebuilding the country's economy and civil society.

When we overthrew the Taliban regime, we made promises to the Afghan 
people with the full backing of the international community. We cannot 
renege on those promises. We cannot fail the people of Afghanistan who 
came together in support of a common vision for the future.

I am very, very concerned that many of the difficulties confronting 
Afghanistan today, especially in the areas of security, are due in 
large part to taking our eye off the ball in Afghanistan and exhausting 
our economic and military resources in Iraq. We had the chance to make 
Afghanistan secure. We failed to do so because we chose not to invest 
the necessary resources in Afghanistan, but, rather, to transfer our 
attention and our resources to Iraq. We are now playing catch up in 
Afghanistan as the situation there is deteriorating.

I applaud the chairman and members of the Foreign Affairs Committee 
for this timely reauthorization.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

