---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `d9ab7cba5f8385ba0c806312470e366f`
`Mr. SULLIVAN — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to this 
pretend, fake, disingenuous, cruel-to-the-troops resolution. It is 
impossible, despite what the Democrats have claimed, to both support 
the troops and not support the increase in troops necessary to win the 
war.

With this nonbinding, fake, pretend resolution, Democrats maintain 
they support the troops but at the same time disapprove of their 
mission. This confusing message simply lends encouragement to the Iraqi 
insurgents and terrorists to believe that every roadside bomb brings 
them closer to their goal of a terrorist state in the heart of the 
Mideast.



The simple fact is the deployment of troops to secure Baghdad has 
already begun. In fact, soldiers of the 82nd Airborne Division, who 
were deployed after President Bush's call for a temporary increase in 
troops, are already in Iraq doing critical work with the Iraqi Security 
Forces.

The passage of this misguided, pretend resolution does nothing except 
demoralize these brave men and women in uniform and invigorate those 
who wish America great harm.

The consequences of failure in Iraq could not be greater. The outcome 
in Iraq will directly affect America's efforts in the global war on 
terrorism for many generations. A victory for the Islamic militants, 
such as the al Qaeda members who are embedded in the Anbar Province in 
Iraq and the Iranians in Iraq who are provoking sectarian violence, 
would embolden the enemy to expand the reach of their efforts. Retreat 
would result in instability in the region, encourage radical Islamic 
terrorists and rogue regimes to expand into the region, and give 
terrorists a sanctuary from which to launch attacks against the U.S. 
and the West.

The bipartisan Iraqi Study Group, a bipartisan group, recognized the 
need of a troop surge to secure Iraq. To this end, I submit page 27 
through 29 and page 73 of the Iraqi Study Group report for the Record 
on this issue to highlight the grave humanitarian consequences of a 
withdrawal of the U.S. forces from Iraq.

I am tired of hearing Democrats constantly criticize our plans for 
Iraq, yet they do not have a plan of their own. It is a shame that they 
have chosen to play politics with the men and women in uniform in Iraq. 
Democrats now have the responsibility to govern, but they lack both a 
plan for success in Iraq and the political will to advance a bill that 
cuts off funds for our troops.

They say that the problems in Iraq can only be solved by a political 
solution. While this is true to some extent, you cannot solve the 
problems in Iraq diplomatically and politically without first providing 
security to the Iraqi people. Security must go hand in hand with the 
political solution.

Democrats need to understand that their political choices and 
rhetoric hurt our troops and morale and give comfort, great comfort, to 
our enemy.

We also agree that this is a time for Iraqis to step forward and end 
sectarian violence and build a responsible government. Iraqi Prime 
Minister Maliki has promised the American people that in this new 
campaign Iraqi troops will be the ones knocking down doors, arresting 
insurgents and patrolling streets, with U.S. troops in a supporting 
role. We cannot give up at a critical point in Iraq's fledgling 
democracy.

Failure in Iraq is not an option. If we do not win in Iraq, we leave 
it up to our future generations to tackle the problems of Islamic 
terrorism in an unstable region. There is no short-term solution in 
Iraq because there is not a short-term problem.

Today, our brave men and women in Iraq are rising to the challenge to 
secure Baghdad. I encourage my colleagues to vote ''no'' on this ill-
timed resolution.

















Page 27




 The United Kingdom has dedicated an extraordinary amount of 


 resources to Iraq and has made great sacrifices. In addition 


 to 7,200 troops, the United Kingdom has a substantial 


 diplomatic presence, particularly in Basra and the Iraqi 


 southeast. The United Kingdom has been an active and key 


 player at every stage of Iraq's political development. U.K. 


 officials told us that they remain committed to working for 


 stability in Iraq, and will reduce their commitment of troops 


 and resources in response to the situation on the ground.
















 5. Conclusions




 The United States has made a massive commitment to the 


 future of Iraq in both




 blood and treasure. As of December 2006, nearly 2,900 


 Americans have lost their lives serving in Iraq. Another 


 21,000 Americans have been wounded, many severely.



 To date, the United States has spent roughly $400 billion 


 on the Iraq War, and costs are running about $8 billion per 


 month. In addition, the United States must expect significant 


 ''tail costs'' to come. Caring for veterans and replacing 


 lost equipment will run into the hundreds of billions of 


 dollars. Estimates run as high as $2 trillion for the final 


 cost of the U.S. involvement in Iraq.



 Despite a massive effort, stability in Iraq remains elusive 


 and the situation is deteriorating. The Iraqi government 


 cannot now govern, sustain, and defend itself without the 


 support of the United States. Iraqis have not been convinced 


 that they must take responsibility for their own future. 


 Iraq's neighbors and much of the international community have 


 not been persuaded to play an active and constructive role in 


 supporting Iraq. The ability of the United States to shape 


 outcomes is diminishing. Time is running out.








B. Consequences of Continued Decline in Iraq




 If the situation in Iraq continues to deteriorate, the 


 consequences could be severe for Iraq, the United States, the 


 region, and the world.

















Page 28




 Continuing violence could lead toward greater chaos, and 


 inflict greater suffering upon the Iraqi people. A collapse 


 of Iraq's government and economy would further cripple a 


 country already unable to meet its people's needs. Iraq's 


 security forces could split along sectarian lines. A 


 humanitarian catastrophe could follow as more refugees are 


 forced to relocate across the country and the region. Ethnic 


 cleansing could escalate. The Iraqi people could be subjected 


 to another strongman who flexes the political and military 


 muscle required to impose order amid anarchy. Freedoms could 


 be lost.



 Other countries in the region fear significant violence 


 crossing their borders. Chaos in Iraq could lead those 


 countries to intervene to protect their own interests, 


 thereby perhaps sparking a broader regional war. Turkey could 


 send troops into northern Iraq to prevent Kurdistan from 


 declaring independence. Iran could send in troops to restore 


 stability in southern Iraq and perhaps gain control of oil 


 fields. The regional influence of Iran could rise at a time 


 when that country is on a path to producing nuclear weapons.



 Ambassadors from neighboring countries told us that they 


 fear the distinct possibility of Sunni-Shia clashes across 


 the Islamic world. Many expressed a fear of Shia 


 insurrections--perhaps fomented by Iran--in Sunni-ruled 


 states. Such a broader sectarian conflict could open a 


 Pandora's box of problems--including the radicalization of 


 populations, mass movements of populations, and regime 


 changes--that might take decades to play out. If the 


 instability in Iraq spreads to the other Gulf States, a drop 


 in oil production and exports could lead to a sharp increase 


 in the price of oil and thus could harm the global economy.



 Terrorism could grow. As one Iraqi official told us, ''Al 


 Qaeda is now a franchise in Iraq, like McDonald's.'' Left 


 unchecked, al Qaeda in Iraq could continue to incite violence 


 between Sunnis and Shia. A chaotic Iraq could provide a still 


 stronger base of operations for terrorists who seek to act 


 regionally or even globally. Al Qaeda will portray any 


 failure by the United States in Iraq as a significant victory 


 that will be featured prominently as they recruit for their 


 cause in the region and around the world. Ayman al-Zawahiri, 


 deputy to Osama bin Laden, has declared Iraq a focus for al 


 Qaeda: they will seek to expel the Americans and then spread 


 ''the jihad wave to the secular countries neighboring Iraq.'' 


 A senior European official told us that failure in Iraq could 


 incite terrorist attacks within his country.



 The global standing of the United States could suffer if 


 Iraq descends further into chaos. Iraq is a major test of, 


 and strain on, U.S. military, diplomatic, and financial 


 capacities. Perceived failure there could diminish America's 


 credibility and influence in a region that is the center of 


 the Islamic world and vital to the world's energy supply. 


 This loss would reduce America's global influence at a time 


 when pressing issues in North Korea, Iran, and elsewhere 


 demand our full attention and strong U.S. leadership of 


 international alliances. And the longer that U.S. political 


 and military resources are tied down in Iraq, the more the 


 chances for American failure in Afghanistan increase.



 Continued problems in Iraq could lead to greater 


 polarization within the United States. Sixty-six percent of 


 Americans disapprove of the government's handling of the war, 


 and more than 60 percent feel that there is no clear plan for 


 moving forward. The November elections were largely viewed as 


 a referendum on the progress in Iraq. Arguments about 


 continuing to provide security and assistance to Iraq will 


 fall on deaf ears if Americans become disillusioned with the 


 government that the United States invested so much to create. 


 U.S. foreign policy cannot be successfully sustained without 


 the broad support of the American people.

















Page 29




 Continued problems in Iraq could also lead to greater Iraqi 


 opposition to the United States. Recent polling indicates 


 that only 36 percent of Iraqis feel their country is heading 


 in the right direction, and 79 percent of Iraqis have a 


 ''mostly negative'' view of the influence that the United 


 States has in their country. Sixty-one percent of Iraqis 


 approve of attacks on U.S.-led forces. If Iraqis continue to 


 perceive Americans as representing an occupying force, the 


 United States could become its own worst enemy in a land it 


 liberated from tyranny.



 These and other predictions of dire consequences in Iraq 


 and the region are by no means a certainty. Iraq has taken 


 several positive steps since Saddam Hussein was overthrown: 


 Iraqis restored full sovereignty, conducted open national 


 elections, drafted a permanent constitution, ratified that 


 constitution, and elected a new government pursuant to that 


 constitution. Iraqis may become so sobered by the prospect of 


 an unfolding civil war and intervention by their regional 


 neighbors that they take the steps necessary to avert 


 catastrophe. But at the moment, such a scenario seems 


 implausible because the Iraqi people and their leaders have 


 been slow to demonstrate the capacity or will to act.










C. Some Alternative Courses in Iraq




 Because of the gravity of the situation in Iraq and of its 


 consequences for Iraq, the United States, the region, and the 


 world, the Iraq Study Group has carefully considered the full 


 range of alternative approaches for moving forward. We 


 recognize that there is no perfect solution and that all that 


 have been suggested have flaws. The following are some of the 


 more notable possibilities that we have considered.

















Page 73












The Way Forward--A New Approach




 Deter even more destructive interference in Iraq by Syria 


 and Iran.



 Because of the importance of Iraq to our regional security 


 goals and to our ongoing fight against al Qaeda, we 


 considered proposals to make a substantial increase (100,000 


 to 200,000) in the number of U.S. troops in Iraq. We rejected 


 this course because we do not believe that the needed levels 


 are available for a sustained deployment. Further, adding 


 more American troops could conceivably worsen those aspects 


 of the security problem that are fed by the view that the 


 U.S. presence is intended to be a long-term ''occupation.'' 


 We could, however, support a short-term redeployment or surge 


 of American combat forces to stabilize Baghdad, or to speed 


 up the training and equipping mission, if the U.S. commander 


 in Iraq determines that such steps would be effective.



 We also rejected the immediate withdrawal of our troops, 


 because we believe that so much is at stake.



 We believe that our recommended actions will give the Iraqi 


 Army the support it needs to have a reasonable chance to take 


 responsibility for Iraq's security. Given the ongoing 


 deterioration in the security situation, it is urgent to move 


 as quickly as possible to have that security role taken over 


 by Iraqi security forces.



 The United States should not make an open-ended commitment 


 to keep large numbers of American troops deployed in Iraq for 


 three compelling reasons.



 First, and most importantly, the United States faces other 


 security dangers in the world, and a continuing Iraqi 


 commitment of American ground forces at present levels will 


 leave no reserve available to meet other contingencies. On 


 September . . .
