---
---

# PRICE OF GASOLINE
## `d9b4aa6b32f44c3dcc005c73829951e7`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. Very first thing as you said that we did was an 
ethics reform to the rules. So we took a huge step the first day we 
were in this Congress. Tomorrow, we are going to add to that from a 
bill that came over from the Senate as to certain other parts of 
lobbying reform. So we are continuing to make strides so that this 
place is open and transparent and people really know that we're working 
for the betterment of the entire country, you know, not a select few, 
and that's really the change that's going on here.

That's why people wanted to see a new direction in this Congress. 
They wanted to see a new direction in Iraq. They wanted to see a new 
direction in how we did business within this chamber, and they're 
getting those very things.

I'm proud to be part of the impetus, the catalyst to make those kinds 
of changes, to make the big change when it comes to energy. We can't 
wait any longer to change the way we deal with energy in this country, 
whether it's because we're just continuing to put more and more exhaust 
into our climate or we want to wean ourselves from foreign oil or we 
want jobs.

I mean as Mr. Braley was saying, we need turbines, we need solar 
panels. There's construction jobs by the thousands and thousands as we 
move to a new type of energy for this country, and we're making that 
change.

This Democratic Congress is making the change that was so desired by 
the people of this country. They wanted a new direction, and that's 
what we're giving to them.

And I do want to tell you that your great-grandfather was George 
Washington Braley. My grandfather was George Washington Bristow anyway, 
for just pure information.