---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `d9c9efe0a576c92c1f8098e8863fadab`
`Mr. HENSARLING — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in great opposition to this rule and to this 
conference report.

We are here, yet again, discussing a Democrat plan for a statutory 
date certain for America's defeat in Iraq. We are here, yet again, 
discussing the Democrats' ''slow bleed'' strategy for our brave men and 
women in uniform in Iraq, designed to gradually deny them the critical 
equipment, support, and reinforcements they need to do the job. We are 
here, yet again, discussing just how much pork and unrelated spending 
can be shoved into this conference report to encourage or persuade 
reluctant Members to support this legislation.

And, Mr. Speaker, according to today's L.A. Times and other major 
media outlets, we are likely to have this vote again and again and 
again because the majority party's leadership somehow believes it is in 
their political interests to do so.

Now, Mr. Speaker, we all know about the recent announcement of the 
Democratic leader in the Senate. He has announced to our troops, he has 
announced to al Qaeda, he has announced to the world that the war in 
Iraq is lost.

Mr. Speaker, Corporal Tyler Rock of the 1st Battalion, 6th Marines 
seems to disagree. I would quote him directly, but I believe the House 
rules would not permit it; so allow me to paraphrase that he has a 
quote for the Senate majority leader. Let me go on to say that he has 
said, ''We could leave this place and say we are sorry to the 
terrorists, and then we could wait for 3,000 more American civilians to 
die before we say, 'Hey, that's not nice again.' ''

Mr. Speaker, I suspect that Corporal Rock speaks for most of our 
troops. Let's not cut their support. There will be no greater event to 
empower radical Islam than our defeat and retreat from Iraq.

The terrorists that we fight there believe they have the moral 
authority to kill 2 million, 2 million of our children, two of them 
being my own.

They are the ones that say the battlefield is in Iraq. Why can't we 
understand that in the Halls of Congress?

There is no doubt that fighting this war is costly. There is no more 
difficult duty I have, or any of us have, than to meet with the mothers 
of those who have lost loved ones on the field of battle. But as 
difficult as that duty is, I


never, never, never want to meet with the mothers who lose children in 
the next 9/11 because we turned our back on our duty.

The cost of fighting this war is great. The cost of losing it is 
greater.