---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3288, CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `d9e01438cddf11fb0c0f35bda610547c`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 10 December 2009`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, with this bill, we keep our 
promises to those magnificent Americans who have kept their promise to 
serve our Nation and the American family.

The fiscal year 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and 
Related Agencies Appropriations bill provides $134.6 billion for 
projects and programs of critical importance to America's veterans and 
military troops and their families, including veterans benefits and 
healthcare, and military family housing, barracks and mission critical 
facilities.

The bill provides $53 billion in discretionary funding for the 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and $56.6 billion for mandatory VA 
programs, $23.3 billion for military construction and family housing, 
and $1.4 billion for military construction projects in support of the 
war in Afghanistan.

In a major victory for America's veterans, the bill for the first 
time includes advance appropriations for the VA to ensure a stable and 
uninterrupted source of funding for medical care for veterans. For 
fiscal year 2011, the bill includes $48.2 billion for VA medical 
programs.

The bill provides funding to address several significant priorities, 
including:

Renovating surplus building on VA medical campuses to use as housing 
for homeless veterans;

Increasing the number of VA outpatient clinics in rural communities 
where veterans do not have ready access to VA hospitals;

Accelerating the Army's program to modernize troop housing for 
trainees;

Addressing critical unfunded construction requirements of the Guard 
and reserve;

Providing mortgage relief to military families required to relocate 
during the current mortgage crisis;

Expediting environmental cleanup on closed military bases; and

Investing in renewable and alternative energy initiatives on military 
installations.

For Military Construction and Family Housing, the bill includes $23.3 
billion to support American's military forces and their families at 
home and overseas, $333.9 million above the request. The bill includes 
$11.8 billion for such items as barracks, child care centers, 
installation chapels, and mission critical operational facilities. Of 
this amount, $350 million is provided to accelerate the Army's program 
to modernize troop housing facilities for trainees. The Army has a need 
for $2.2 billion to bring all 115,413 trainee barracks spaces up to 
standard and the program currently is not scheduled to finish until 
2017.

Also includes $174 million for the Energy Conservation Investment 
Program (ECIP), $84 million above the request, to increase the level of 
investment in renewable and alternative energy resources and to promote 
energy conservation, green building initiatives, and energy security 
programs on U.S. military installations.

For the Guard and Reserve component, the bill includes $1.6 billion, 
$601.7 million above the request, to provide readiness centers and 
operational facilities for the Army National Guard, Air Guard, and 
Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force reserve forces. Within this 
amount, the bill includes $200 million in additional construction 
funding to address critical unfunded requirements.

For military and family housing programs, the bill includes $2.59 
billion for family housing, $300 million above the request, to further 
eliminate inadequate military housing, including $323 million for the 
Homeowners Assistance Program, $300 million above the request, to 
provide additional funding for the expanded mortgage relief program for 
military families who are required to relocate during the current 
mortgage crisis and must sell their home at a loss, as well as to 
wounded warriors who must relocate for medical reasons and to the 
spouses of fallen warriors similarly affected by the mortgage crisis.


The bill includes funding for base realignment and closure (BRAC) at 
the level of $496.8 million for the 1990 BRAC round, $100 million above 
the request, to address the large unfunded backlog of environmental 
cleanup for bases that were closed during the four previous BRAC 
rounds, and $7.5 billion for the 2005 BRAC program, the full authorized 
amount.

Finally, for overseas contingency operations the bill includes $1.4 
billion, matching the request, to support additional military 
construction requirements to support operations and previously 
scheduled troop deployments to Afghanistan.

For the Department of Veterans Affairs, the bill includes $109.6 
billion, $15.3 billion above 2009 and $747 million above the request. 
The funding includes $56.6 billion for mandatory veterans benefit 
programs and $53 billion for discretionary funding. Total discretionary 
funding is $5.4 billion above 2009, an increase of 11 percent. In 
addition, the bill provides $48.2 billion in advance appropriations for 
veterans medical care programs for fiscal year 2011.

For the Veterans Health Administration, the bill includes $45.1 
billion, matching the request and $4.1 billion above 2009, for 
veterans' medical care. The Veterans Health Administration estimates 
that it will treat more than 6.1 million patients in 2010, including 
more than 419,000 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan (56,000 more than 
2009).

A major initiative in the VHA includes $250 million as requested to 
continue the Rural Health Initiative to which the Congress added $30 
million to increase the number of Community Based Outpatient Clinics 
(CBOCs) in rural areas for veterans who do not have ready access to VA 
hospitals. More than 3.2 million (41%) of enrolled veterans live in 
rural or highly rural areas.

In the area of mental health funding, we have included $4.6 billion, 
matching the request and $300 million above 2009, to treat the 
psychological wounds of returning combat veterans, including post-
traumatic stress disorder. Also included is an additional $1 million to 
provide education debt relief as a hiring incentive for mental health 
professionals.

Funding to treat Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi 
Freedom (OEF/OIF) Veterans is at $2.1 billion, matching the request and 
$463 million above 2009, to meet the healthcare needs of veterans who 
have served in Iraq and Afghanistan. The VA estimates that the number 
of OEF/OIF veterans in the VA healthcare system in 2010 will have 
increased by 61 percent since 2008.

One of the areas of increasing concern is the assistance for homeless 
veterans, where we have provided $3.2 billion, matching the request and 
$421 million above 2009, for healthcare and support services for 
homeless veterans; including $26 million for a Presidential Initiative 
to combat homelessness, $150 million for the homeless grants and per 
diem program, $20 million for supportive services for low income 
veterans and families, and $21 million to hire additional personnel for 
the HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Program.

The program for medical and prosthetic research is funded at $581 
million, $71 million above 2009, for research in a number of areas 
including mental health, traumatic brain injury, spinal cord injury, 
burn injury, polytrauma injuries, and sensory loss; including a $48 
million increase for research to address the critical needs of 
Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom veterans.

The effort to improve the condition of medical facilities of the 
Department of Veteran Affairs continues with a construction program of 
$1.9 billion, $103 million above the request and $232 million above 
2009, including major construction of $1.2 billion for major medical 
facilities, including hospitals and clinics, to enable the Department 
to implement the recommendations made by the Capitol Asset Realignment 
for Enhanced Services (CARES) Commission, which was established to look 
at facilities and determine their construction needs. In addition, the 
bill includes $703 million, $103 million above the President's budget 
request, including $50 million for the renovation of vacant buildings 
on VA campuses to be used as housing with supportive services for 
homeless veterans. The VA estimates that on any given night, 131,000 
veterans are homeless. This program will strengthen the VA's goal of 
eliminating homelessness among veterans by providing housing and 
counseling services in settings that are in close proximity for VA 
hospitals.

Funding for grants to states for the construction of extended care 
facilities is set at $100 million, an increase of $15 million above the 
request. And $42 million in grant funding for state veterans' 
cemeteries is provided in this bill.

Finally, for the Department of Veterans Affairs, we have included 
$1.7 billion for benefits claims processors, $223 million above 2009, 
to enable the Department to hire roughly 1,200 additional claims 
processors to continue to address the backlog of benefits claims and to 
reduce the time to process new claims. The most recent VA quarterly 
status report estimates that nearly 397,000 claims are pending. When 
added to funding and hiring provided in prior years, this will result 
in a total of 8,300 new claims processors being hired since January of 
2007.

With passage of this bill, Congress has provided a 60 percent 
increase in funding for veterans health care and benefits since January


2007. This funding has resulted in a total increase of 8,300 claims 
processors as mentioned, 145 community-based outpatient clinics, 70 Vet 
Centers, and more than 47,000 additional Veterans Health Administration 
employees. These additional resources will provide our veterans with 
their benefits more quickly and improve access to health care and other 
services.

Congress has also funded several initiatives to improve the quality 
of life for our military and their families to include: $3.2 billion 
for new military hospitals, $1 billion for new child care centers to 
serve 20,000 military children, and $920 million in additional funding 
for barracks.


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH10DE09.001



[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH10DE09.002



[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH10DE09.003



[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH10DE09.004



[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH10DE09.005



