# THE ECONOMY
## `d9e053bbf928112cf0a8b02c5e67a4dc`
`Mr. SANDERS â€” 10 December 2010`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, let me begin by thanking my friend from 
Virginia for doing what is very important. I think the essence of what 
he is saying is that today there are millions of Federal employees, 
people in the Armed Forces, who are doing the very best they can. In 
many instances, they are doing a great job to protect our country, to 
keep it safe. And very often, to be honest with you, these folks get 
dumped on. So it is important that people such as Senator Warner come 
here and point out individuals who are doing a great job, people of 
whom we are very proud. So I thank Senator Warner for that.

Mr. President, as I think everyone knows, President Obama and the 
Republican leadership have reached an agreement on a very significant 
tax bill. In my view, the agreement they reached is a bad deal for the 
American people. I think we can do better.

I am here today to take a strong stand against this bill, and I 
intend to tell my colleagues and the Nation exactly why I am in 
opposition to this bill. You can call what I am doing today whatever 
you want. You can call it a filibuster. You can call it a very long 
speech. I am not here to set any great records or to make a spectacle; 
I am simply here today to take as long as I can to explain to the 
American people the fact that we have to do a lot better than this 
agreement provides.

Let me enumerate some of the reasons I am opposed to this agreement.

First, as everybody knows, this Nation has a recordbreaking $13.8 
trillion national debt at the same time as the middle class is 
collapsing and poverty is increasing. And I think it is important to 
say a word--because I am not necessarily sure a lot of Americans know 
this--about how we got to where we are today in terms of the national 
debt.

I know there are some people who think this all began the day 
President Obama took office. Well, that is not quite the case. When 
President Clinton left office, this country was running, in fact, a 
very significant surplus, and the projections were that we were going 
to continue to run a surplus. During the 8 years of President Bush's 
administration, for a number of reasons--the primary reasons being the 
war in Iraq, the war in Afghanistan, huge tax breaks for the wealthiest 
people in this country, a Medicare Part D prescription drug program, 
the Wall Street bailout, among other things, all of which were not paid 
for--we saw an almost doubling of the national debt. Since President 
Obama has been in office, we have passed a stimulus package which has 
also added to the deficit and national debt.

But here we are today with a $13.8 trillion national debt, a $1.4 
trillion deficit, and almost all Americans are in agreement that this 
is a very serious issue. So the first point I would make is that it 
seems to me to be unconscionable--unconscionable--for my conservative 
friends and for everybody else in this country to be driving up this 
already too high national debt by giving tax breaks to millionaires and 
billionaires who don't need it, and in a number of cases they don't 
even want it.

Here is one of the interesting ironies. There are lists of many very 
wealthy people who have come forward and said: Sure, I want a tax 
break. Everybody wants a tax break. But you know what, there are other 
priorities in this country, and I don't need it. Two of the wealthiest 
people in the world--and these are billionaires--Bill Gates of 
Microsoft and Warren Buffett of Berkshire, say: It is absurd. We don't 
need a tax break.

All over the country, you hear a lot of folks who have a lot of money 
saying: Don't drive up the deficit and force our kids to pay higher 
taxes to pay off the national debt in order to give tax breaks to the 
richest people in this country. We have been told not to worry too much 
because the extension of these tax breaks for the wealthy will only 
last 2 years--not to worry. Maybe that is the case. But given the 
political reality I have seen in Washington, my guess is that 2 years 
from now these tax breaks for the wealthiest people in this country 
will be extended again. What happens around here is that the argument 
will be made that if you end these tax breaks you are raising taxes. 
That is what we are hearing right now. I see no reason why, in the 
middle of a Presidential election, those arguments will not be made 
again and I see no reason not to believe that those tax breaks will be 
extended again.


(The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore assumed the chair.)