---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `d9ea512a92ea1b8c035ffad8a363929c`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Mr. Speaker, let me thank my colleague for yielding, and 
let me thank him for his work, the majority leader Mr. Hoyer, and the 
chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Mr. Obey, the chairman of the 
Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Rangel

It's not often that on a major bill that with as much controversy as 
we've had with this bill that we can come together and work as a 
Congress on both sides of the aisle and come to a compromise. The 
gentleman from Wisconsin outlined the provisions of the bill. I might 
have described them a little differently than he did. But a compromise 
is that. It's a compromise. You know, there are 435 of us. Any one of 
us could write this bill in a way that fit our own interests.

But at the end of the day, I think there was cooperation on both 
sides to come to this agreement. And I believe that at the end of the 
day, it's a victory for our troops, it's a victory for American 
families, it's a victory for our veterans, and for those in need who 
are unemployed.

Now, we could get into the whole issue of Iraq. I'm glad we're there. 
I wish it had gone better. I wish it had gone quicker. I want our 
troops to come home as soon as possible. But I want our troops to come 
home having succeeded in Iraq. The effort, the fight that's going on in 
Iraq, it's not about tomorrow, it's not about next month or next year. 
It is about the future for our kids and theirs.

Our soldiers in Iraq have brought more security to that country, the 
political process is working better, and building a democracy in a part 
of the world that's never known it, there is no price. There is no 
price that we can put on what that may mean for the future for our kids 
and theirs.

I know it's been difficult. It's been difficult for all Americans. 
And it's certainly been difficult for our troops and especially for 
those troops that have given their lives in defense of our country. But 
it's a price for freedom. And I think freedom for our kids and theirs 
is why a lot of us are here. And so supporting our troops that are in 
Iraq and Afghanistan is important.

I could criticize the majority that this bill should have happened a 
long time ago. There's no reason to get into that. But I think we're 
doing the right thing for our troops in this bill finally. I think the 
expanded GI benefits in this bill, while they may not be exactly as I 
would write them, taking care of our veterans should be our highest 
priority and making sure that they have the kinds of educational 
benefits that will help not only them but also their families will help 
us retain more of our soldiers, and help give them the benefits that 
they and their families deserve.

When it comes to the unemployment benefits that are included in this 
bill, I think it's a reasonable provision to require 20 weeks of work, 
which is current law, and to extend 13 additional weeks for all 50 
States. I wouldn't have done it that way. The gentleman from New York 
(Mr. Rangel) knows that. We had a discussion about it. But again, a 
compromise is a compromise.

I want to thank my Democrat colleagues for working with us to get to 
this point. And I want to thank them for this commitment that this is 
the bill, this is the bill that will end up on the President's desk.

And so I would ask all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to 
vote for this. You may not love it, but this is one of those moments 
when you've worked together, you've worked out a compromise, that 
Members need to just suck it up and vote ''yes'' because it's the right 
thing to do for our country.