---
---

# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `d9f2a89a666e3c2833d010f7653b21f6`
`Mrs. DRAKE — 5 December 2007`

---


Mrs. DRAKE. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of the motion to 
instruct conferees. This motion would instruct House conferees to 
accept section 1536 of the Senate version of the national defense 
authorization, a provision which received near unanimous support on the 
other side of the Capitol. This section states, ''A failed state in 
Iraq would become a safe haven for radicals, including al Qaeda and 
Hezbollah, who are determined to attack the United States and its 
allies.'' It goes on to state that ''a failed state in Iraq would lead 
to a broader regional conflict, possibly involving Syria and Iran.''

I would remind my colleagues that only a few short months ago, the 
President of Iran was quoted as saying that very soon we will be 
witnessing a great power vacuum in the region, and that Iran is willing 
to fill this void.

Madam Speaker, the other side has attempted over 40 times to wave a


white flag in Iraq. This motion would put this Chamber on record as 
supporting a policy of success in Iraq. Our goal must be the path that 
we are on; a stable, functioning Iraqi Government, who can be an ally 
with us in the war on terror and not the goal of our enemy, which is 
Iraq as the capital of their caliphate.

Madam Speaker, I visited Iraq this summer. I had the opportunity to 
meet with the Deputy Prime Minister, and I asked the question why Iraq 
had not passed the legislation that we were using as a benchmark. I 
told him I had heard he had the votes to pass the legislation.

His answer to me was quite surprising. He said, ''Yes, I have the 
votes. I have 75 percent to pass the legislation.'' He said, ''But if I 
do it, I will be cutting the Sunnis out of the government; they will 
have no voice and no power.''

That is exactly the opposite of what their goal is in Iraq. I would 
maintain that the Iraqi Government is working very hard for stable 
institutions where no one group can take over power again.

We have all seen the efforts of our military and the surge are 
working, creating stability and security. And now we are seeing the 
best of all results, which is the Iraqi people themselves, who have 
chosen us and have chosen their government. And in the words of their 
own sheiks that we met, two Sunni and two Shia, they said, ''We are 
working together for Iraq.''

I urge my colleagues to support this motion in the best interests of 
our national security and working together for Iraq.