# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `da06ae78d06c90688d6556bbf04e63da`
`Mr. FORTENBERRY — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. FORTENBERRY. Madam Speaker, when I left home this week for 
Washington, my 6-year-old Kathryn became very sad. See, she has big, 
beautiful brown eyes and they welled up with tears at the prospect of 
my leaving again for Washington. And she said to me, Daddy, why do you 
have to be a Congressman? And I thought of the words of the 
Revolutionary War author Thomas Paine when he said, ''I prefer peace; 
but if trouble must come, let it come in my time so that my children 
can have peace.''

Madam Speaker, this is a pivotal moment for our Nation and a very 
grave, solemn policy debate. We cannot afford to allow the ups and 
downs of the daily news cycle set the course for our deliberations. The 
stakes in Iraq are simply too high.

During last year's debate on Iraq, I emphasized that this war is 
different from wars of the past. There is no front, no lines of 
demarcation, no clear enemy in distinct uniforms. This is a war that 
invades tranquil time and space without warning, carried out by those 
who hide among populations seeking to exploit the vulnerable for 
ruthless, ideological purposes.

We have never before waged a war in an era of globalization, in an 
age when technology eviscerates the concept of distance, magnifies our 
losses, trivializes our accomplishments, and places our adversaries in 
a far better position to leverage our freedoms, particularly the 
freedom of speech, against us. These are the complexities we face now.

Madam Speaker, I submit that our choices now stand to determine not 
only the future of the Middle East but the very future of civilization. 
We can point fingers and blame each other, or we can think 
constructively together.

So what are our choices? The National Intelligence Estimate 
categorically rejects an arbitrary or precipitous U.S. troop 
withdrawal. The result


would be horrific chaos, a humanitarian disaster, destabilizing the 
entire Middle East, emboldening the geopolitical aims of Iran, and 
leading to a much less peaceful world in very short order.

The conflict in Iraq is dangerous, risky, and complex. And we can all 
agree that our troops are doing an outstanding job, and so are their 
families who bear the biggest burden in their absence.

I submit that our time and energy as leaders of this Nation should be 
focused on new, clear military and geopolitical strategies.

First, Iraqis must fight for their own country now. They must lead in 
the battle for Baghdad now.

Over the past several months I joined colleagues in urging the 
President to deploy trained Iraqi troops into the heart of the battle 
for Baghdad, and I am pleased to see that this recommendation is now 
under way. However, I remain concerned about exposing our forces to 
unnecessary danger in the sectarian violence of Baghdad. As best we 
can, our troops should remain in support and training roles. I also 
believe that it is prudent to send reinforcements to our marines in 
Anbar province who are achieving good success against al Qaeda elements 
in collaboration with Sunni tribal leadership.

Second, we must engage responsible members of the international 
community, particularly the pan-Arab world, to assume a unified and 
decisive role in neutralizing the forces of chaos and helping secure 
stability and peace throughout the Middle East.

Third, we must provide meaningful congressional oversight. And I 
commend Chairman Lantos for taking this lead in the House Foreign 
Affairs Committee and for his commitment to a substantive and reasoned 
debate in this regard.

I would have liked to have had the opportunity to support a 
constructive bipartisan initiative drawing upon the substantive 
resources like the Iraqi Study Group to enhance congressional oversight 
and set out meaningful benchmarks to measure progress toward the 
stabilization of Iraq and the drawdown of our troops.

While it would be politically easier for me to vote for this 
resolution, I cannot. I see no useful purpose in supporting a 
nonbinding resolution that may have the unintentional consequence of 
undermining our efforts while our troops remain in harm's way.

Madam Speaker, this resolution, while wrapped in the mantle of 
supporting our troops, does not point to a credible way forward in 
Iraq. I believe I would make the same decision if a Democratic 
administration were struggling with similarly arduous challenges. If we 
flinch now, regardless of the goodwill behind our motivations, if we 
are perceived as weak and divided and eager to throw up our hands in 
frustration, we will pay a heavy price. And every nation that counts 
upon us as a friend and ally will also pay a very heavy price. None of 
us wants to see the repeat of the last helicopter out of Saigon.

I urge my colleagues, let's find constructive ways to get the job 
done