---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SENATOR EDWARD KENNEDY ON CASTING HIS 15,000TH VOTE
## `da26520bc3125358359b948b2f41474a`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I want to express appreciation to all my 
colleagues for their generous comments this evening, in particular to 
the two leaders, Senator Reid and Senator McConnell, for their 
kindnesses tonight and other times where they have been generous of 
spirit and thought.

I want the people of Massachusetts to know this is not an ending; 
15,000 votes is not an ending. No one could demonstrate that better 
than my friend and colleague from West Virginia who still speaks with 
such eloquence and such passion and does such an extraordinary job in 
preserving this institution the way our Founding Fathers wanted it to 
be. He has no peer--certainly in my lifetime and I think probably in 
the history of this body.

The greatest public honor of my life has been representing the people 
of Massachusetts. I love the State. I love the people. I have been 
greatly honored by their confidence and their support over the many 
years--joyous years, sad years. They have been extraordinary in terms 
of their support of a voice in the Senate and a vote to try to 
recognize that America is not just a land, it is a promise. It is a 
never-ending promise about strengthening our families and about 
strengthening our country and about being a fair country and creating 
greater opportunity and leading the world when we basically reflect our 
greatest values.

I have been greatly honored in working in the Senate with 
extraordinary men and women over the period of years. I include so many 
who are here now, so many of those who have worked with me over the 
period of years, men and women of great integrity and strong commitment 
and caring about this Nation. They have demonstrated extraordinary 
courage, extraordinary leadership, and have helped to make the country 
a much better and fairer land; many on our side, many on the other 
side--many on the other side.

When we think back on the great battles and challenges we have had 
over the period of years, we made progress when we came together. That 
has been true.

I am very grateful to my friend, and he is my friend, John Kerry, my 
colleague. I thank him for his friendship and support over many years. 
He has pointed out he has helped me in my first campaign. I tried to 
help him on his last campaign. We are friends and colleagues and have a 
good deal of respect for each other. I have a great deal of affection 
and respect for John.

I thank the Senator from West Virginia, Senator Byrd. As we know, he 
is not only the President of the Senate, but he has devoted his life to 
this institution. On so many different occasions and on so many 
different times--I know many in this body can remember it--when this 
institution was teetering on whether we were going to maintain our 
position as the Founding Fathers wanted it and tried to devise it or 
whether we were going to move off track, he has reminded us, 
particularly in the great debate we had on the Iraq war, about that 
role of this institution and its role in American life and its role in 
the world. We are all mindful of that.

He has been a friend. We have a time where we go back and remind each 
other of the times we differed, but what we also, I think, have valued 
is the fact that our friendship I believe is stronger because of the 
times that we did differ. We have great affection for each other, 
respect for each other. I thank him for his extremely kind and generous 
remarks.