# None
## `da3b32a26ea86cec595bfa3ef32f8e50`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 25 March 2009`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I am a member of the Budget Committee. 
Senator Conrad is our chairman. Senator Gregg is our ranking member. As 
the Senate knows, this week we will be taking up the President's 
proposed budget, and I want to speak for a few minutes about that 
subject.

Yesterday I had the opportunity to speak to a number of students who 
were here because they want to make sure Congress continues to provide 
them an opportunity to study at our Nation's community colleges. I am a 
strong believer in the role of community colleges as a less expensive 
yet outstanding opportunity to earn a good education, but it being also 
a part of our workforce development and training, where industry can 
come in and match up a curriculum to train people to perform jobs for 
which they can receive well-paying salaries.

But yesterday these community college students, of course, were here 
to talk about the issues that are on their mind. They heard from Dr. 
Jill Biden and Secretary Duncan, among others. I appreciate how eager 
they were to learn what is going on here in Washington. Indeed, I bet 
there are a lot of people who would like to know what is going on here 
in Washington.

I encouraged them to learn about the issues and express their views. 
I told them that as far as I can tell, their generation will bear the 
consequences of the reckless spending this Congress is engaged in, in a 
budget that simply spends too much, taxes too much, and borrows too 
much.

Students will ultimately end up--after they finish their education 
and enter the workforce--paying those higher taxes under this proposed 
budget. This proposed budget calls for $1.4 trillion in additional net 
taxes over the next 10 years.

Students are trying to figure out how these higher taxes will 
actually impact the opportunities they will have as they enter the 
workforce. Some of these taxes will hit these students at the toughest 
time; that is, right as they enter their first job.

We know the engine of job creation in America is our small 
businesses. In fact, of those small businesses that employ between 10 
and 500 employees--which are the principal job creators in our 
country--50 percent of them will experience higher tax rates because 
many of them are not incorporated. They are sole proprietorships. They 
are partnerships. They are subchapter S corporations, where the income 
actually flows through and is reported on an individual tax return.

So it is not true to say these will only affect the rich. Indeed, 
these taxes will affect the very job engine that creates the jobs we 
ought to be worried about retaining and indeed creating more of.

I also talked to these students about how they will feel the impact 
of higher energy costs on their electric bill. You may wonder what I am 
talking about. Well, we all care about the environment. As a matter of 
fact, I reject the notion of people who actually say: Well, we care 
about the environment, and you do not care. I think we all care about 
the quality of the air we breathe, the quality of the water we drink. I 
cannot imagine someone who does not.

These students, though, I think are understandably skeptical of the 
complex and unproven cap-and-trade scheme the President's budget wants 
to import from Europe, which will actually ultimately increase the cost 
of energy, including electricity. That is why some people have called 
it a national sales tax on energy, if, indeed, this complex and 
unproven cap-and-trade plan is passed as part of the President's 
budget.

Then there is the issue of the caps placed on charitable deductions 
for taxpayers who take advantage of that tax break when they contribute 
money to good and worthy purposes. Many community college students 
receive scholarships from foundations that are funded by charitable 
contributions. As a matter of fact, charitable giving is one of the 
things that is part of our Nation's great tradition of voluntarism--
something Alexis de Tocqueville called ''public associations''--things 
you do not get paid for but things that people do because they think it 
is the right thing to do and they have the opportunity to do in our 
great country.

This budget would actually cap charitable contributions, which will 
actually reduce the tax incentive for individuals to contribute money 
to good causes such as the Tyler Junior College Foundation in Tyler, 
TX. The foundation is understandably concerned that raising taxes 
without increasing the charitable tax deduction will limit their 
ability to offer as many scholarships in future years.

So these tax increases will, in effect, limit the opportunities for 
these community college students, including folks in my State, in east 
Texas, in Tyler, TX.

Then there is the issue of raising taxes generally and spending. 
These students know Congress is already spending a whole lot of their 
money because it is all borrowed money. In fact, we have spent more 
money since this Congress convened this year than has been spent for 
the Iraq war, the war in Afghanistan, and in Hurricane Katrina 
recovery. We have done that already. And this budget calls for doubling 
the debt in 5 years and tripling the debt in 10 years.


These students, understandably--because they are going to be the ones 
we are going to look to to pay that money back or bear that tax 
burden--should be concerned and, indeed, they are concerned that so 
much money is being spent so recklessly. In fact, it is impossible for 
me to imagine it will be spent without huge sums of money actually 
being wasted.

We have already seen evidence of that. In the stimulus bill--the 
President said he wanted on his desk in short order, which was rushed 
through the Senate and through the Congress--$1.1 trillion, including 
the debt and interest on the debt--we found out, once we passed the 
next bill, which was a $410 billion Omnibus appropriations bill, that, 
lo and behold, Congress had actually doubly funded 122 different 
programs in the bill. We acted with such haste, with such little care, 
with such little deliberation, that we found out we doubly funded 122 
programs.

Indeed, we found out in recent days that in the conference report on 
the stimulus bill, there was a provision stuck in the conference report 
that protected the bailout bonuses for the executives of AIG. Then, of 
course, there was the understandable uproar over that. That is what 
happens when a bill is printed and circulated at 11 o'clock at night, 
on a Thursday night, and we are required to vote on it in less than 24 
hours the next day. That is not the kind of transparency, that is not 
the kind of accountability, that is not what will actually give people 
more confidence in their Government-elected officials. To the contrary. 
There is another provision in this omnibus bill that has essentially 
started a trade war with Mexico, something that causes me grave 
concern.

So as we consider the President's $3.6 trillion budget proposal, we 
should remember the lessons of the past 2 weeks: spending so much 
money, so quickly, can lead to unintended consequences, to say the very 
least, but the biggest consequence of this budget is the amount of debt 
we are accumulating. I have already talked about it a minute.



But, of course, we were shocked, and I think even the President and 
the administration were shocked, by the Congressional Budget Office, 
the nonpartisan office which evaluates financial matters for Congress, 
which said the President's budget will actually create deficits 
averaging nearly $1 trillion a year for the next decade.

I mentioned the fact that it would double the debt in 5 years, triple 
it in 10 years. The Congressional Budget Office said the size of the 
national debt as a percentage of the economy will become the highest 
since the years after World War II.

So these students who start college this year will see their share of 
the national debt grow from $19,000 per student to more than $36,000 
per student after graduation from a 4-year program. By 2019, their 
share of the debt will grow to more than $55,000 per person. Can you 
imagine, with the money they have to borrow to fund their education, 
with their credit card debt--and I do not know any student who does not 
have sizable credit card debt--we are going to heap $55,000 in 
additional debt on these students. That is a tough way to start out 
your life after school as you start your first job. Today's college 
students will ultimately have to pay back the debt, as well as the 
generations that succeed them. All bailouts, one way or another, will 
come out of their pocket.

I urge my colleagues to understand the impact on this younger 
generation of a budget that taxes too much, spends too much, and 
borrows too much. Because of our actions, the next generation will 
either have to raise more taxes or cut programs that are necessary or 
lower their standard of living.

I know from my parents, members of the ''greatest generation,'' the 
one thing they aspired to more than anything else was that my brother 
and my sister and I would have a better life, more opportunities, more 
freedom, a better standard of living than they did. And they were 
willing to sacrifice for that, and sacrifice they did. But it seems to 
me the sacrifices we are calling for today are all on our children and 
grandchildren, and none upon the present generation.

The President says he wants to make hard decisions. But I do not see 
any hard decisions in this budget. All I see is more borrowing, more 
taxing, and more spending, and that is exactly the wrong way we ought 
to be headed.

Mr. President, I thank the Chair and yield the floor.