---
---

# None
## `da4cf796ec833b87e0c384c65818f035`
`Mr. SPECTER — 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, there is one further subject I wish to 
discuss. This will be not relatively brief, but brief. That is a 
discussion which is pending between Syria and Israel with Turkey acting 
as an intermediary. It would be my hope and suggestion to the President 
that he extend the flexibility which he is now showing as to Iran and 
North Korea and Iraq to assist in the Israeli-Syrian negotiations. The 
United States was instrumental in negotiations back in 1995, when Prime 
Minister Rabin almost came to terms with Syria on the Golan Heights. It 
is a very difficult subject that I don't believe anybody should tell 
Israel or suggest to Israel or in any way pressure Israel as to what to 
do about the Golan Heights. It is a decision Israel has to make for 
itself on their security. But it is a different world than it was in 
1967, when Israel took the Golan Heights. Now we have a world of 
rockets, and security matters are entirely different.

Again, the United States participated extensively in the Syrian-
Israeli talks in the year 2000. I have made many trips to Syria since 
1984. I got to know President Hafez al-Asad and traveled to the Middle 
East extensively and recommended to a number of Israeli Prime Ministers 
the desirability of my view--at least in one man's opinion--to have the 
negotiations. Right now there is a unique opportunity which could 
impact on Lebanon. Syria is opening an embassy in Lebanon, treating 
Lebanon as a sovereign nation which is quite a shift. Syria has 
enormous influence on Hezbollah. It is a very complex subject in 
Lebanon, with Hezbollah having significant power in the government, a 
veto in their Parliament. Syria has considerable influence with Hamas. 
If the circumstances were right, there is a great opportunity to 
separate Syria from Iran, a great opportunity to get some assistance 
with Syria on some major problems. It is unknowable whether that can 
happen. But I do believe dialog is the way. It would be my hope the 
President would show he still has muscle. He is going to be in the 
White House for 6 months. What he has done with respect to North Korea 
and Iran and Iraq shows he is not taking his last 6 months with a view 
that there are things he can accomplish. I refer to an extensive 
article I have written on this subject which summarizes a good many of 
my activities and views in the Washington Quarterly for 2006-2007.

I thank my colleague from Washington for her patience, if, in fact, 
she has been patient. It is always difficult with Senators having the 
right to speak. But it took me more than an hour to get the floor after 
waiting most of the day. As usual, Senator Murray is gracious and 
nodding in the affirmative. I thank her and the Chair.

I yield the floor.