---
---

# CONGRATULATING LITHUANIA ON 1,000TH ANNIVERSARY
## `da4d35c219aa601e459f815e7c3b3047`
`Mr. SMITH of New Jersey — 22 July 2009`

---


Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

I rise in strong support of my friend and colleague's resolution 
celebrating the rich history of Lithuania.

I was recently back in Lithuania just a couple of weeks ago, Mr. 
Speaker, for the July meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and saw, once 
again, the beautiful city of Vilnius, a city with an historic history.

But more importantly than the city and its physical attractiveness is 
the people themselves, the kindness, the generosity, and a goodness, 
innate goodness, which is truly remarkable.

The Lithuanians, as we know, were occupied. They were often called a 
captive nation, one of the Baltic captive nations. In 1940, they were 
brought into the Soviet Union by force, a grave injustice that this 
Congress has never recognized and thankfully now, since 1990, they were 
the first of the so-called Soviet Republics to declare its 
independence.

Since securing their independence from the Soviet Union, Lithuanians 
have won the world's admiration by making Lithuania a free country that 
truly respects fundamental human rights. The Lithuanian Government 
conducts democratic and fair elections, respects the rule of law, and 
the Lithuanian economy is free.

Mr. Speaker, the United States owes Lithuania a debt of gratitude, 
but the United States has not freed Lithuania from Soviet domination--
they did that themselves. Lithuania has recognized the common values it 
shares with the United States and has deployed its soldiers to do duty 
alongside ours in Afghanistan, Iraq, Bosnia, Kosovo, as well as in 
Georgia.

Let me also point out that back in the early 1990s, I was part of a 
delegation led by Steny Hoyer. When the Soviets looked like they were 
about to take over the Parliament and rush it with the black berets, 
several of us traveled to Vilnius to be there to be in solidarity with 
President Landsbergis, who was under siege. And the belief was that if 
sufficient numbers of parliamentarians were there as witnesses, it 
might have a chilling effect on Soviet ambitions and they might not 
storm that Parliament.

What we found in Vilnius was people who were literally praying night 
and day, people outside the parliament saying rosaries, offering up 
prayers and, hopefully, acting as shields themselves to the Soviet 
aggression.



I will never forget visiting a TV tower that had been attacked by the 
Soviets. There were candles burning where people dropped as they were 
fired upon by Soviet troops; but they were still there in defiance, 
standing up to this world power that was seeking to crush them. One of 
the incidents I will never forget. Don Ritter, one of our Members of 
the House who was then the ranking member of the CSCE, stepped across 
the line, and there was a Soviet tank there at the TV tower which all 
of a sudden began turning its turret towards him. Several of us who 
were there said, Don, you'd better step across. This is truly a 
volatile situation. And nothing came of it. But again, the Lithuanians 
were there protesting against tyranny and the domination that was 
coming out of Moscow but did so with such class and such courage that 
it was truly inspiring.

Our delegation was matched by delegations from Poland and other 
countries, recently emerging democracies; and they too were saying, 
We're not going to stand idly by and watch this great people conquered 
once again--conquered but never really conquered in their hearts and 
minds. So I, again, want to thank Mr. Shimkus for bringing this to the 
floor. I also thank my friends on the other side of the aisle for 
posting it for debate and consideration. Again, this says to the people 
of Lithuania, You are a tremendous people. We recognize and admire your 
goodness and your courage, because you certainly demonstrated it under 
fire.