# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2642,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `da5a46130bc9130112243810d34ce070`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Madam Speaker, I very much appreciate my 
colleague yielding me this time.

Perhaps the most important counsel I have ever received came from my 
dear friend and mentor, Dr. Adeline Gunther. ''Gram,'' as we called 
her, was the founder and guiding light of the University Religious 
Conference located near the UCLA campus. Gram said to me, ''Always 
remember, Jerry, what you are not willing to do in order to win.''

Think about that. What you are not willing to do in order to win.

Those running the Democratic leadership of the House need desperately 
to learn that lesson. So enamored with their power after 12 years out 
of the majority, the Democrat majority is now moving rapidly in the 
direction of reinventing the authoritarian system that was a part of 
their control for the previous 40 years.

The outrageous movement of the Iraq supplemental to the House floor, 
without consideration by the Committee on Appropriations and under a 
closed rule, is the case in point.

The supplemental began as a $108 billion request for funding 
requirements for the troops for the remainder of 2008. This must-pass 
emergency legislation has now grown to somewhere near $250 billion. A 
whole array of legislative provisions has been added that could have 
been and should have been addressed by way of regular order during the 
appropriations process.

Unfortunately, the supplemental will bypass the Appropriations 
Committee altogether, and through use of parliamentary trickery, avoid 
the inconvenient input of Democrat and Republican Members who have real 
expertise in the subject areas involved.

Regular order is designed to ensure that people's voices and 
interests are heard on serious public policy questions as they move 
through the legislative process. To have the Democrat leadership cut 
off the people's right to be heard by such a crass parliamentary set of 
maneuvers results in great harm to the Appropriations Committee and 
seriously undermines the credibility of the world's most admired 
legislative body.

Only three or four Members, at most, have provided serious input 
throughout this misguided process. All Members, Democrats and 
Republicans alike, should be enraged by this arrogant demonstration of 
dictatorial control. I know from private conversations with many of my 
friends on the other side of the aisle that there is a great deal of 
frustration among Democrats with Chairman Obey and Speaker Pelosi for 
their excessive and abusive control of this process.

Madam Speaker, let me assure you that my colleagues and I will 
continue to exercise every tool available to us to protect the 
established traditions of the House and the fundamentals of our 
democratic system. It is clear that Speaker Pelosi is willing to do 
anything, including stifling the voices of nearly every Member of the 
House, to win.

I urge all of my colleagues to remember the words of my mentor, Dr.


Adeline Gunther, who said, ''Always remember what you are not willing 
to do in order to win.''