---
---

# HATE CRIMES LEGISLATION
## `da65143bc424e54013accdd3f14e2fca`
`Mr. HUNTER — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank the gentleman.

The liberals in this Congress and in the Senate did a despicable 
thing today. There is usually one bill in this Congress that gets 
passed that's nonpartisan. It's bipartisan. It's the authorization bill 
to get our military what it needs. And it has never been so important 
as it has been during this time of war. This is beans, band-aids, 
bullets, trucks, armor, and flak jackets. Everything that we need to 
win these wars in Iraq and Afghanistan is in this authorization bill 
that was being voted on today. I voted ''yes'' on it. Many voted 
''no,'' and they were in the right as well as I was in the right. And 
here is why. To attach a hate crimes bill, a thought crimes bill, which 
is wrong in and of its own, but has nothing to do with the military, 
nothing whatsoever, but the Democrat Congress knew that we would not 
vote against the military. That's the hand that they played. So they 
put one of the worst and most rotten bills that has been passed by this 
Congress on top. They piggy-backed it on top of our defense 
authorization bill because who's going to vote against the troops?

That was their slant today. And as a marine and as a congressman, it 
is one of the most despicable things that I have ever seen done by this 
body. Some of us voted for it. Some of us voted against it. Each of 
us voted our own conscience on this, and both votes were right. We do 
have to get our military what it needs on one hand, but on the other 
hand, we are not going to be ridden roughshod over by a liberal 
Congress that thinks that they can attach absolutely despicable bills 
to important things like the defense authorization bill. That's why 
voting ''no'' on this bill today was also the right choice. So I thank 
the gentleman for his conscientious vote today, and I appreciate it.
