---
---

# IRAQ
## `da7098d1bc5083434f01f373106f083a`
`Mr. ROBERTS — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, last Friday I had the privilege of 
attending and speaking before a ''Farewell Dinner'' in honor of LTG 
David Petraeus at the Command and Staff College of the U.S. Army at 
Fort Leavenworth, KS.

To say the least, it was quite an evening of tribute in behalf of the 
general and his wife, who has become admired and beloved serving as the 
Commanding General of the Army's Intellectual Center. I estimate there 
were around 250 officers and their wives and many from the Leavenworth 
community to pay tribute to General and Mrs. Petraeus, to wish them 
well, and to express pride and confidence in the general's immediate 
mission. He left for Iraq this past Monday, 2 days ago.

Throughout the evening I had the opportunity to again visit with 
David Petraeus, his feelings about his new mission, his impressive 
knowledge with regard to the war in Iraq, the history of the region, 
and his understanding with regard to the nature of past wars of 
insurgency and the insurgency we face in Iraq. While at the Command and 
Staff school, he wrote the Army's new manual on counterterrorism. Let 
me say as a former marine who helped write a similar manual years ago 
for the U.S. Marine Corps, I find this man unique in his knowledge and 
his command ability.

I made a few remarks at the dinner, and being a Senator, why, the 
remarks turned into a speech with some additional strongly held beliefs 
that I had penciled out in addition to my prepared remarks in behalf of 
General and Mrs. Petraeus. I thought twice about saying some very frank 
and candid views, but as everybody knows, marines don't hold back. So 
concluding my comments, I was glad I said what I said in that virtually 
everybody in the room--all 250--told me that I had said what they could 
not say. Those who wear their officer rank on their shoulders or their 
enlisted stripes on their sleeves in most cases do not comment on 
policy decisions or politics no matter how strongly they feel. They 
follow orders and they serve their country.

I feel somewhat the same trepidation today. However, I believe my 
remarks to the general, his officer corps, veterans of previous wars, 
are dead on to


the issue we face in this debate that we have been talking about here 
on the floor of the Senate.

Before I express my views, I would stress I regret that we are at a 
stalemate in this body allegedly debating the issue of vital national 
security, and I think most in the Senate wish we could do just that and 
do it with comity, cooperation and, yes, in bipartisan fashion. The 
American people, who are concerned and frustrated and angry about the 
war, would certainly appreciate that, but that is not the case.


This issue is wrapped around a partisan and political axle procedure. 
My friends across the aisle insist that we debate and vote on one of 
the three nonbinding resolutions regarding the war in Iraq, and only 
that resolution. They wanted to debate and vote on the Warner 
resolution and call it a day. The Warner resolution supports the troops 
but not the mission. Let me repeat that: It supports the troops but not 
the mission. That is a most unique position, to say the least, and that 
is about as far as my colleagues across the aisle wish to wade in the 
waters of withdrawal at this particular time.

I also mention it might be helpful if we could consider the Feingold 
resolution. Senator Feingold's resolution actually does something and 
should be considered in the Senate, as well. Others wish to debate and 
vote upon the McCain resolution and the Gregg resolution, but we are 
being denied that opportunity.

Now, to those in the press--of which I see none--those covering this 
debate within the media, how on Earth can you describe this situation 
by writing headlines in 15-second news sound bites, stating Republicans 
had voted to stifle debate on the war? Yes, let's debate and vote on 
the Warner resolution. That is entirely proper and right. But let's 
also debate and vote on resolutions offered by Senators McCain and 
Gregg and, perhaps, Feingold. By the way, I intend to vote for McCain 
and Gregg if I get the chance. I do not share the resolution in regard 
to Senator Feingold, but I defend his honor to introduce it and to 
debate it.

We are not stifling or shutting down debate. They are. Hello up 
there. Is there any way you can discern that? I can help you. I majored 
in journalism. I used to be a newspaper editor. This is like playing 
baseball with one strike and you are out. What happened to my other two 
strikes? Well, sorry, back to the dugout. We are going to go to the 
continuing resolution. We run this ball game.

In any case, in my remarks last Friday at Fort Leavenworth, I said to 
General Petreaus and the crowd that was assembled in his honor:




 Throughout our history as a Nation there have been numerous 


 times when a Commander in Chief badly needed a Commanding 


 General with keen intellect and raw courage. However, I do 


 not think that it is a slight exaggeration to suggest the 


 last time one was this badly needed was 144 years ago, the 


 year 1853, when President Lincoln covered General Grant.



 There are other historical allegories of tremendous 


 consequence. General Washington selected Nathaniel Green at a 


 crucial time in our Revolutionary War. Mr. Green was a 


 blacksmith's assistant. There was no understanding of rank at 


 this time. And he reputedly stuttered badly. He must have led 


 by example.



 As most military historians know, Grant was discharged from 


 the Army for drinking. He went back home to Illinois. He 


 failed in farming. And he failed in running a mercantile 


 store. Four months into the war, he joined the Illinois 


 Volunteer Regiment, was reinstalled as an officer. Lincoln 


 chose Grant over many, many others.



 As an aside, Sherman was a good friend of Grant and was 


 discharged for ''insanity.'' When he came back to the Army, 


 he made a famous remark about his friend: ''He was with me 


 when I was insane and I was with him when he was drunk.''



 Then, of course, there was Ike. Selected by General 


 Marshall and agreed to by Franklin Roosevelt, he was picked 


 due to his particular talent of getting people, some with 


 tremendous egos, to come together in common cause. Eisenhower 


 was picked over 30 to 40 senior officers.



 Then, just as now, our Nation stands at a critical 


 crossroads. Now, just as then, the freedom of many thousands 


 of people is at stake. Also at stake is the safety and 


 security of the United States of America.


Now, remember, these remarks came at a dinner for General Petreaus at 
the U.S. Army Command and Staff College at Fort Leavenworth in Kansas. 
So I said to the general: General Petreaus, you and I have not been 
personally acquainted over a long period of years. Yet in our 
relatively short span of time I have come to know you well. I have had 
many stimulating and enjoyable conversations with you over a wide range 
of issues--Lawrence of Arabia, the British experience in Iraq--so I 
know full well you are exactly the right man for the job at the right 
time.

Our brave young men and women in uniform deserve nothing but the very 
best leadership, and they are getting it with General Petreaus.

I told him: You have captured America's imagination and enter this 
job with an enormous reservoir of goodwill.

However, it is a paradox of enormous irony that the Senate confirmed 
General Petreaus without a dissenting vote--not one--a vote of 
confidence unique given today's controversy, turmoil, and times.

Yet, at the same time, the same Senators who give you their vote of 
confidence are now in the business of proposing what I call ''confetti 
resolutions,'' supporting you and the troops but not the mission you 
are about to undertake. That, to me, is unprecedented for the Senate 
and, to me, it is astounding. These resolutions are nonbinding. They 
have no legislative impact. They are the so-called sense-of-the-Senate 
resolutions--meaningless except for the message you wish to send to the 
Executive and the folks back home or for whatever purpose you might 
have a sense-of-the-Senate resolution. With all due respect, we have 
crossed the Rubicon with regard to sending mixed messages to our 
allies, our troops, the American people, the media, and, yes, our 
adversaries. Don't forget our adversaries.

Words have consequences. Rest assured, unlike some of my colleagues, 
our adversaries will read every word and try to figure out and analyze 
each sentence of these resolutions. And I suspect they will scratch 
their heads and try to discern the sense and the reading of a 
resolution that states support for the troops and our new commander 
with new rules of engagement with a limited timeframe for achieving and 
reporting benchmarks of progress but that opposes the mission. That 
mixed message should cause quite a bit of head scratching among the 
estimated 31 terrorist organizations we have planning various attacks 
around the world.

However, my real concern is that the Senate is not considering or 
even talking about the probable consequences of these actions, let 
alone our responsibilities should they happen. I make it clear, I don't 
question the intent, purpose, or patriotism of any Senator, regardless 
of the resolution, but I do question judgment and the law of unintended 
effects. Bluntly put, with all of this debate with regard to nonbinding 
resolutions, we appear like lemmings, splashing in a sea of public 
concern, frustration, and anger over the war in Iraq. I understand 
that.


In this regard, I should stress, I do not know of anybody in this 
Senate or the House of Representatives or anyone in America who does 
not want our troops home at the earliest possible date, and stability 
in Iraq, if possible. That is not the issue.

When all of this confetti settles--and it is settling, apparently, 
because we are going to a continuing resolution and we will not have a 
vote on any of the resolutions--the end result of all this frenzy will 
be: General, you and the troops have our solid support, but we don't 
support your mission. However, press on, and good luck.

What kind of message is that? This is not a profile in courage. This 
is not the Senate's finest hour. If we are going to debate and vote on 
nonbinding resolutions, let's at least consider resolutions that will 
send a clear message or that can be of useful purpose. In that regard, 
we should consider the McCain resolution that lists benchmarks of 
progress, that General Petreaus has told me would be useful in his 
discussions with Prime Minister Maliki, certainly the Gregg resolution 
that supports funding for our troops in harm's way. But that is the 
killer in this debate because my colleagues across the aisle do not 
want to vote on the Gregg resolution. Now we are not going to vote on 
any resolution. The only thing we voted on was cloture.

As a matter of fact, I think we should vote on a resolution, as I 
said before, proposed by Senator Feingold, a resolution that certainly 
does something. I do not agree with his resolution, but he is at least 
forthright and has the courage and sends a clear message.



As the former chairman of the Intelligence Committee in the Senate, 
let me stress what has not happened in the Congress or the media and 
has received very little public discussion regarding this challenge 
that we face in Iraq. No one is talking about the consequences of what 
will happen if we simply withdraw. And we may just do that because I do 
not believe this war can or should be sustained if we do not see 
progress in the next 6 months.

I would also like to point out that most of the time deadlines for 
withdrawal that have been proposed or are in the nonbinding resolutions 
mirror exactly the same time period that General Petreaus told the 
Committee on Armed Services he would follow in reporting whether this 
new effort is making measurable progress along the lines of the 
benchmarks within the McCain resolution. The obvious question is, Who 
can make a better judgment? Who can better make that judgment, General 
Petreaus, in theater, or Senators conducting theater?

We have not discussed the difficult policy decisions that will 
confront us if it becomes necessary to withdraw or even how to 
withdraw. The reality is, what will we do when certain consequences 
take place? These are the possible, if not probable, consequences we 
should be confronting, debating, and explaining to the American people 
and the media, even if some have a deaf ear. First, a dramatic increase 
in sectarian violence quickly escalating to a civil war, not the civil 
war that people say exists today but a real civil war and a 
humanitarian disaster far more devastating than what is happening now; 
Shia versus Shia, Sunni versus Sunni, Shia versus Sunni. What do we do?

Second, given a civil war and a struggle for control, we can expect 
an incursion of Sunni troops from other Middle Eastern countries to 
prevent an Iranian takeover of Iraq and the very real possibility of an 
Iraq led by Muqtada al-Sadr whose street appeal will endanger their own 
governments. When that happens, the war becomes regional. What do we 
do?

Third, we can expect an Iraq dominated by Iran, thus completing a 
Shia crescent with Iran and Iraq and Syria and Lebanon--and Lebanon is 
going through its own problems, to say the least. Today, countries such 
as Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Egypt are talking about building their own 
nuclear programs, given Iran's nuclear ambitions and their 
progress. Iran just refused inspectors from the IAEA. With the 
possibility of Shia Muslims and Sunni Muslims each working to achieve 
nuclear capability and weapons, what does Israel do? What do we do?


Fourth, Iraq will become a safe haven for terrorists. This time, it 
is for real. No, not the 2002 NIE, National Intelligence Estimate, that 
we all agree was an egregious error. What do we do?

Fifth, in their eyes, with defeat of the ''Great Satan'' only months 
away--a clear signal by this body and perhaps inevitable--terrorists 
around the world are already emboldened, waiting us out and planning 
more attacks. That is, of course, if you believe what they say. So what 
do we do?

Sixth, we can expect a perceived, if not real, lack of American 
resolve in the eyes of adversaries and potential adversaries around the 
world, resulting in additional national security threats. Read Putin 
and Belarus; Kim Jong Il, with his penchant for missile launches on the 
Fourth of July; read Hugo Chavez--the Southern Hemisphere's new 
Castro--nationalizing his oil production and directly involved in five 
different countries. What about American resolve? What do we do?

I realize in today's climate the obvious answer to ''What do we do?'' 
is simply to blame President Bush. But the point is that globally and 
over the long term, this is not a Bush issue or a Democratic or 
Republican issue or even how you feel about Iraq or the views of the 
so-called international community.

Even as we argue about whether we debate and vote on one resolution 
or three--or apparently just have a vote on cloture and say that is the 
end of it--terrorist organizations and their second-generation 
affiliates--guided and inspired--are plotting attacks against the 
United States and throughout the world, even as I speak. It is obvious 
we cannot really sustain the status quo in Iraq. But while we debate 
how to proceed, they are not giving up.

Now, given the fact there were at least five successful attacks 
killing Americans--and others that, thank God, were not successful--
before President Bush came to office and before military action in Iraq 
and given the fact that this threat will face the next President--yes, 
the next President--and future world leaders, surely, surely we can 
figure out it makes no sense to fight each other when the terrorists, 
then and now and in the future, do not kill according to party 
affiliation, nationality, race, age, or gender. If you were on one of 
those planes the terrorists were planning to send--nine of them--over 
the Atlantic to American cities, and they went down and exploded in an 
American city or simply went down in the ocean, it would not make any 
difference if you were Democratic, Republican, liberal, conservative, 
or anything--you would be dead. It would not make any difference.

We do not need a Republican approach to national security and the 
war. We do not need a Democratic approach to national security and the 
war. We need an American approach to our national security and the war 
and our individual freedoms.

This is a time to engage in honest dialog to work together and think 
through and agree on strategy that will defeat our enemies and make the 
American people safe--look at those consequences of our actions that we 
have not even discussed on what may happen--and, yes, bring our troops 
home but in a way that we do not have to send them back.

My colleagues, I started my remarks by saying the majority of these 
comments came from a speech I gave at the dinner honoring GEN David 
Petraeus and his wife Holly at our Leavenworth Command and Staff 
College in Kansas last Friday prior to David Petraeus leaving for Iraq 
this Monday. I closed those remarks by saying I was confident that 
under his leadership, this new mission with new rules of engagement, 
our chances of success were greater because failure is not in David 
Petraeus. It never has and it never will be. So America's destiny and 
God's blessings are riding on the shoulders of GEN David Petraeus. And 
I closed by saying I was proud to offer him my full support and to call 
him a friend.

So I say to the leadership, with all due respect, and to all of my 
colleagues, let us end this business of nonbinding resolutions and get 
these confetti resolutions behind us. Vote on all four. Vote on all 
three. But let's not have the headlines that Republicans are trying to 
shut down debate on Iraq. That is just not the case. We should vote in 
regard to the Warner resolution, the McCain resolution, the Gregg 
resolution, and as far as I am concerned the Feingold resolution, if we 
must. We have all had a chance now to discuss the war. We need to vote 
on the three resolutions--maybe four--and come together with bipartisan 
commitment--a difficult and perhaps impossible task but a task that 
must be undertaken for the sake of our national security.

Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining?