---
---

# None
## `da732fc30138312cd31ba0dbc7ff0d6c`
`Mr. CONYERS — 29 October 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, today we recognize the ongoing loss of 
life occurring in Darfur. I would like to restate my unconditional 
support and commitment to advancing peace and security for the people 
of Darfur. I implore my colleagues in Congress to join me in urging the 
Sudanese government to take decisive action to address this tragedy. 
This quite simply is a matter of Life and Death and as the destruction 
of hope and possibilities continues to erode away at a people who are 
calling out for help. These atrocities continue to mount in the Sudan 
as our Administration continues to pump billions of dollars into Iraq 
and redirects greatly needed resources away from this unnecessary 
tragedy. The conflict in Sudan began as a genocide against tribes of 
small farmers in its Darfur region over five years ago. Militia groups 
have slaughtered an estimated 400,000 people and driven 2.5 million 
people from their homes. There has been an increase in civilian 
killings and large scale attacks in Darfur. The rape and torture of 
women and children remains a constant concern on a daily basis. 
Thousands have moved to displacement camps which contain their own 
level of violence with guns being readily available and tensions in 
Darfur continuing to grow every day. The African Union peace keeping 
troops who have put up a courageous fight have lacked the proper 
resources and manpower needed to contain the growing threat. Equipped 
only with light weapons, they are no match for the heavily armed 
rebels. They are undermanned and outgunned and in desperate need of 
advanced weapons and helicopters to properly engage with the Militia.

In May, Nobel Peace Prize winner and Holocaust survivor Elie Weisel 
called Darfur ''the capital of suffering.'' He called on all of us to 
''tell the victims they are not alone.'' Violence continues in Darfur, 
as the Sudanese government attacked two internally displaced camps in 
the past week. On October 19, the Militia attacked the Kalma refugee 
camp, the largest in Darfur. Additionally, on Oct. 22, the Hamidiya 
camp near the town of Zalengei was attacked in a series of clashes 
between government troops and rebel groups. The killings of African 
Union peacekeepers and World Food Programme contract drivers combined 
with detentions of humanitarian workers in the conflict-ridden Darfur 
region of western Sudan are just a few examples of a deteriorating 
situation, which is prompting increased anxiety by those affected by 
the ongoing crisis, as well as by those responding to the emergency. 
From June until late August, the United Nations reported, an estimated 
55,000 new persons had been displaced in the region--bringing the total 
number of those uprooted this year to some 250,000. In all, the UN 
estimates, 2.2 million of Darfur's 6.4 million people have been 
displaced, and four million are now dependent on some form of 
humanitarian assistance.

While almost everyone involved in Darfur policy agrees that an 
African Union peacekeeping force of just 7,000 troops is not up to the 
task, the United States has refused to send troops and, despite 
promises of reinforcements, has yet to secure many additional troops 
from other countries. At the same time, it has been unable to broker a 
diplomatic resolution that might ease the violence. There is no doubt 
that what is taking place in Darfur is genocide, and the government of 
Sudan and the Janjaweed bear responsibility. Congress and the 
Administration must support legislation to address this most pressing 
human rights issue. We must move beyond the rhetoric and take action to 
save the lives of the people who are struggling each day with this 
horrific conflict. We must leave politics aside and support legislation 
such as H. Res. 573, which recognizes and commends the efforts of U.S. 
advocacy groups to raise awareness about and help end the worsening 
crisis in Darfur; We must also support H. Res. 740, which condemns the 
brutal attack on African Union peacekeepers that occurred in Haskanita, 
Darfur one month ago today. This violent act, carried out by rebels, 
took the lives of 10 peacekeepers--seven Nigerians and three other 
soldiers from Mali, Senegal, and Botswana; and finally H. Res. 726, a 
resolution calling on the President and the international community to 
take immediate steps to respond to and prevent acts of rape and sexual 
violence against the most innocent of Darfur's victims--young girls and 
women.

We must continue to provide security and support for the courageous 
humanitarian workers, who risk their lives daily. Their commitment to 
this struggle has been exemplarily in the face of danger. We must also 
take this opportunity to unite and stop these crimes against humanity. 
We can not allow our past failures to identify genocide in places such 
as in Rwanda, Bosnia, and elsewhere to exist ever again.
