---
---

# YEMEN
## `da74498b66646f18e030eefd6fb185e1`
`Mr. WOLF — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. WOLF. I want to talk about an issue dealing with our national 
security. CNN reported this morning that the security situation in 
Yemen is rapidly deteriorating, making a dangerous new haven for al 
Qaeda and terrorists.

This report is just the latest in a series of warnings about the 
security situation in Yemen. Earlier this week, Time magazine reported 
that ''two-thirds of the country is out of government control,'' and 
that ''al Qaeda is turning the lawless mountain areas of Yemen into a 
new staging area.''

According to press reports today, U.S. counterterrorism officials 
believe that al Qaeda's ''presence in Yemen threatens to turn the 
country into a dangerous base for training and plotting attacks.''

In September 2008, al Qaeda terrorists in Yemen attacked the U.S. 
Embassy with vehicle bombs, killing 10 guards and civilians. Since that 
time, al Qaeda's posture in Yemen has grown


stronger with the merger of the Saudi and Yemeni arms of al Qaeda into 
one group--al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula--with Yemen as its base 
for training and operations.

We have seen the consequences of these developments. Last August, a 
Yemeni al Qaeda loyalist detonated a suicide bomb in an attempt to kill 
Saudi Prince Mohammed bin Nayef. He was able to gain access to the 
prince by pretending to be an al Qaeda defector before detonating the 
explosions.

Despite this deteriorating situation, it was reported--and it's hard 
to believe--in Reuters on Monday in an article I'm submitting for the 
Record that at least one detainee from Guantanamo Bay has been released 
to Yemen--released to Yemen, where you can't control the country--and 
at least 26 others have been cleared to return, according to a list at 
the detention facility posted in Arabic and Pashto.

What kind of policy is this that the detainees--some who have killed 
American citizens--at Guantanamo Bay have a list of those that are 
being released, but not one Member of Congress or the American people 
know anything about it and are kept in the dark.

Most of these detainees were captured in Afghanistan and Pakistan in 
2001 and 2002. They have spent 8 years living among the most dangerous 
terrorists in the world, including Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the 
mastermind of the 9/11 attacks and who beheaded Daniel Pearl.

In an attempt to meet this self-imposed deadline to close Guantanamo 
Bay next January, Eric Holder and the administration are prepared to 
release perhaps a third of its cleared detainees to Yemen, a 
dangerously unstable country that is clearly unprepared to accept and 
monitor and rehabilitate these detainees.

Given that more than 15 percent of released detainees have returned 
to terrorism, this release will have a dangerous consequence for the 
American people. It's not beyond the imagination that there will be an 
article in the paper several months from now that somebody who was at 
Guantanamo, from Yemen, released by Eric Holder, goes back to Yemen and 
kills an American citizen or is involved in an act of terrorism.

Combined with al Qaeda's growing strength and presence in Yemen, this 
release is concerning. As our State Department noted in its 2008 
Country Reports on Terrorism, ''The security situation in Yemen 
deteriorated significantly over the past year as al Qaeda and Yemen 
increased its attacks against Western and Yemeni Government 
institutions.''

What is Eric Holder and the Justice Department--what are they 
thinking about? Surely, there must be a better solution, one that won't 
release detainees from Guantanamo who are involved in activities 
against American military, who have served time with Khalid Sheik 
Mohammed, to send them back to Yemen.

Earlier today, I wrote Attorney General Eric Holder to urge that no 
additional detainees be released to Yemen or other unstable countries. 
The deadline to close Guantanamo Bay is no excuse to expedite the 
release of Yemeni detainees, especially if the country, as it is, is 
unprepared to take responsibility for them. The decision to release the 
detainees requires due diligence. It cannot be undone.

While we may have a difference of opinion on how best to deal with 
the situation in Guantanamo Bay, I think, I hope, I believe that we can 
all agree that a rush release of terrorist detainees, people who have 
served with Khalid Sheik Mohammed, should not be released back into 
Yemen when it is so destabilized.

What is this Obama administration thinking? What is Eric Holder 
thinking? I urge Members of Congress to have hearings and for Eric 
Holder to cease and desist any returnees back to Yemen.











 [From Reuters, Sept. 28, 2009]







 Obama Team Clears 75 at Guantanamo for Release















(By Jane Sutton)




 MIAMI.--An Obama administration task force has so far 


 cleared 75 of the remaining 223 Guantanamo prisoners for 


 release as part of its effort to close the detention camp, a 


 military spokesman said on Monday.



 The review team is examining each prisoner's case to decide 


 who will be held for trial and who can be sent home or 


 resettled in other nations.



 President Barack Obama had set a January 22 deadline to 


 shut the detention camp although Defense Secretary Robert 


 Gates told ABC News in an interview broadcast on Sunday that 


 ''it's going to be tough'' to meet the deadline.



 As the review team makes its decisions, military officials 


 at Guantanamo post an updated list in the camps to let the 


 prisoners know how many from each nation have been judged 


 free to go.



 It was an opportunity to just provide better 


 communication,'' said Navy Lieutenant Commander Brook DeWalt, 


 a spokesman for the Guantanamo detention operation. ''There's 


 a lot of information out there and you get a lot of things 


 from a lot of different angles. It helps put it in a more 


 succinct context for them.''



 The prisoners are well aware of Obama's announcement that 


 the camp would be closed and have heard piecemeal information 


 from their lawyers and relatives during phone calls arranged 


 by the International Committee of the Red Cross, he said.



 The list is posted in Arabic, Pashto and English. The 


 latest list of 78 prisoners includes two Uzbeks sent to 


 Ireland and a Yemeni returned to his homeland on Saturday, an 


 indication that some progress is being made in thinning the 


 camp population of those who are not considered a threat.



 ''We are not focused on whether the deadline will or won't 


 be met on a particular day,'' White House spokesman Robert 


 Gibbs said. ''We are focused on making . . . the most 


 progress that is possible.''



 Some on the list are among the 30 ordered freed by U.S. 


 courts but still awaiting transfer, including 13 Chinese 


 Uighurs. The Pacific island nation of Palau has agreed to 


 accept most of them.



 Also on the list are 26 other captives from Yemen, nine 


 from Tunisia, seven from Algeria, four from Syria, three each 


 from Libya and Saudi Arabia, two each from Uzbekistan, Egypt, 


 the West Bank and Kuwait, and one each from Azerbaijan and 


 Tajikistan.



 Most were captured in Afghanistan and Pakistan after U.S. 


 troops invaded Afghanistan in 2001 to oust al Qaeda in 


 response to the September 11 hijacked plane attacks on the 


 United States.