---
---

# A MAN OF PRINCIPLE
## `da7fbbb062756f71ec2b4a131023f1c8`
`Mr. PAUL — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Madam Speaker, I rise to enter into the Congressional 
Record a letter to the editor of the Carteret County News-Times by 
General John Batiste titled, ''A Man of Principle.'' General Batiste 
commanded the 1st Infantry Division in Iraq and in this letter he 
rightfully praises one of the most courageous Members of Congress, my 
friend Rep. Walter Jones of North Carolina. Rep. Jones, correctly 
observes General Batiste, is a man of principle and well understands 
the dilemma we face in Iraq. It is very encouraging for me to read the 
words of the highly experienced General Batiste affirming the 
correctness of Congressman Jones' position on Iraq, because I share 
Rep. Jones views about this very difficult situation we find ourselves. 
I also salute Rep. Jones for his courage and his determination to seek 
the truth.






[From the Carteret County News-Times, May 25, 2007]














 A Man of Principle

























Rochester, N.Y.,




























May 22, 2007



 To the Editor: Congressman Walter Jones of North Carolina's 


 3rd District deserves our unqualified support. He is a man of 


 principle and well understands the dilemma we face in Iraq to 


 include the fatally flawed strategy that took us to war in 


 March 2003; the failure to modify the same strategy over 


 time; the administration's continued reliance on the military 


 without the necessary diplomatic, political, and economic 


 components fundamental to a successful strategy; the 


 administration's failure to mobilize the nation to deal with 


 global Islamic extremism; and the dire straights our great 


 soldiers and Marines find themselves in today.



 Indeed, our Army and Marine Corps, the best fighting 


 formations our country has ever fielded, are at a breaking 


 point with little to show for it because of the reckless 


 behavior of the current administration.



 Walter Jones gets it. He personifies patriotism. He 


 understands the American way of war.



 I base this judgment on personal experience, a 31-year 


 career in the Army, two combat tours in Iraq, many years of 


 service in Balkans peace enforcement in both Bosnia and 


 Kosovo and service in the Pentagon before, during and after 


 Sept. 11th, 2001. I am a lifelong Republican. I respect 


 Walter Jones for his moral courage and resolve to get things 


 right.



 I met Congressman Jones in his office in the Rayburn Office 


 Building some eight months ago. I was impressed then with his 


 grasp of the situation in Iraq and his unqualified love of 


 country and support for our military. Indeed, for the last 


 five years, he is one of only several congressional 


 Republicans who have embraced their constitutional 


 responsibilities to overwatch and hold accountable our 


 executive branch of government. He asks the tough questions 


 and never backs down. The vast majority of our party has long 


 since abrogated this incredibly important aspect of their 


 duty. He well represents his constituents and the best 


 interests of both our country and our military. As President 


 Gerald Ford once said, ''Truth is the glue that holds our 


 government together.'' Since our first meeting eight months 


 ago, my respect of Walter Jones has multiplied tenfold.



 People often ask me to describe how they can help get the 


 country back on track. The answer almost invariably boils 


 down to exercising the right to vote and casting one's vote 


 for the candidate who understands the issues and has the 


 moral courage to do the right thing. I have now expanded that 


 answer to elect more public servants like Congressman Walter 


 Jones of North Carolina. Our nation desperately needs members 


 of Congress with his character, commitment, and resolve. I 


 salute Walter Jones as a man of principle with the courage of 


 his convictions.


























 John Batiste,


 Maj. Gen. USA (Ret.)
