---
---

# None
## `da84f64afcfee52742175bc5ffb1a1e7`
`Mr. PAUL — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H. Res. 1194, mainly 
because this legislation reads like an authorization to use force in 
Lebanon.

As the key resolved clause of H. Res. 1194 states:




 Resolved, That the House of Representatives--














 *
 *
 *
 *
 *




 (6) urges--



 (A) the United States Government and the international 


 community to immediately take all appropriate actions to 


 support and strengthen the legitimate Government of Lebanon 


 under Prime Minister Fouad Siniora;


This language is eerily similar to a key clause in the 2002 Iraq war 
authorization, H.J. Res. 114, which read:




 (a) Authorization--The President is authorized to use the 


 Armed Forces of the United States as he determines to be 


 necessary and appropriate in order to--



 (1) defend the national security of the United States 


 against the continuing threat posed by Iraq;


I find it outrageous that this legislation, which moves us closer to 
an expanded war in the Middle East, is judged sufficiently ''non-
controversial'' to be placed on the suspension calendar for 
consideration on the House Floor outside of normal parliamentary order. 
Have we reached the point where it is no longer controversial to urge 
the President to use ''all appropriate actions''--with the unmistakable 
implication that force may be used--to intervene in the domestic 
affairs of a foreign country?

Mr. Speaker, the Arab League has been mediating the conflict between 
rival political factions in Lebanon and has had some success in halting 
the recent violence. Currently, negotiations are taking place in Qatar 
between the Lebanese factions and some slow but encouraging progress is 
being made. Regional actors--who do have an interest in the conflict--
have stepped up in attempt to diffuse the crisis and reach a peaceful 
solution. Yet at the critical stage of negotiations the U.S. House is 
preparing to pass a very confrontational resolution endorsing one side 
and condemning competing factions. In threatening to use ''all 
appropriate actions'' to support one faction, the United States is 
providing a strong disincentive for that one faction to continue 
peaceful negotiations. Passing this resolution will most likely 
contribute to a return of violence in Lebanon.

This legislation strongly condemns Iranian and Syrian support to one 
faction in Lebanon while pledging to involve the United States on the 
other side. Wouldn't it be better to be involved on neither side and 
instead encourage the negotiations that have already begun to resolve 
the conflict?

Afghanistan continues to sink toward chaos with no end in sight. The 
war in Iraq, launched on lies and deceptions, has cost nearly a 
trillion dollars and more than 4,000 lives with no end in sight. Saber 
rattling toward Iran and Syria increases daily, including in this very 
legislation. Yet we are committing ourselves to intervene in a domestic 
political dispute that has nothing to do with the United States.

This resolution leads us closer to a wider war in the Middle East. It 
involves the United States unnecessarily in an internal conflict 
between competing Lebanese political factions and will increase rather 
than decrease the chance for an increase in violence. The Lebanese 
should work out political disputes on their own or with the assistance 
of regional organizations like the Arab League. I urge my colleagues to 
reject this march to war and to reject H. Res. 1194.