---
---

# FRESHMEN DEMOCRATS CELEBRATE COMPLETING 100-HOUR AGENDA
## `da88a30174e93c5fca739af74a518045`
`Mr. HODES — 19 January 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to be here in 
the House of Representatives. It is an honor and privilege to rise to 
represent my State of New Hampshire, and also as a new Member of the 
Democratic majority to celebrate the 100-hours agenda that has recently 
been completed.

I note with interest that the gentleman from Iowa suggests that 
somehow the new Democratic Members have not had great input into the 
agenda for America that the 100 hours was meant to advance and did 
advance, and somehow the suggestion might be that we haven't 
participated fully with our leadership in the Congress in determining 
the new course and a new direction for this country.

I would correct that gentleman because the new Democratic majority 
and the new Members that are here have had great input with the 
leadership because the American people have sent us here with a mandate 
for change. As we campaigned this fall all across this country, nothing 
was clearer from the American people than they wanted change. They 
wanted change in the way government did its business. They wanted 
change in the direction of this country, and we are now privileged and 
honored to be part of history and be here on the floor of the people's 
House to help make that change happen. Today, in some sense, we come to 
celebrate the 100-hours agenda.

My colleagues across the aisle have made much over the past 2 weeks 
about


hours and minutes. The gentleman from Iowa produced a chart that 
counted hours and counted minutes and they have counted seconds.

But the American people, Mr. Speaker, have counted years. They have 
been waiting for years for a new direction for this country. They have 
said to us in clear and unequivocal terms that they wanted honest 
leadership and open government. We heard time and time again about a 
culture of corruption, concern from the American people that the House 
of Representatives and the Members in this House seemed more concerned 
about themselves than representing the people of this country.

And so in the American agenda that the Democrats advanced and has 
been advanced, we pledged honest leadership and open government. We 
pledged to restore government as good as the people of this country 
deserve starting with real ethics reform.

So, Mr. Speaker, one of the first things that happened here in the 
110th Congress was through the rules process we advanced significant 
ethics reform to restore honest and transparent leadership in the House 
of Representatives.

The American people spoke clearly to us about their concerns about 
what was going on not only across the sea in the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. They are concerned about real security for America. They 
are concerned that although the 2001 attacks had been the subject of a 
bipartisan commission, the 9/11 Commission, to determine what needed to 
be done to make our homeland safe, to keep the people of this country 
safe from attacks here, that this Congress somehow had stalled in 
making those promises, in keeping those promises and making the 
homeland safe.

So in H.R. 1 as part of the 100-hours agenda, we voted to implement 
the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission to protect Americans at home 
and lead the world by telling the truth to our troops, our citizens and 
our allies. We believe in a strong national defense. And we believe in 
being tough and smart. But we realized that homeland security must be a 
priority, and so we voted to implement homeland security.

We were concerned about economic prosperity and educational 
excellence. We wanted to create jobs that stay in America and restore 
opportunity for everyone, and that means all Americans, Americans 
earning all kinds of incomes. I can't tell you, Mr. Speaker, how many 
times as I walked my district door to door and met people in coffee 
shops and factories and schools and libraries, everywhere I went the 
subject of the minimum wage came up time and time again because the 
good people of this country recognized that the minimum wage was an 
important factor for millions of Americans. Single moms raising 
families were trying to do it on a minimum wage that hadn't been raised 
in 10 years.

I always find it interesting when my colleagues from across the aisle 
complain about raising the minimum wage, and yet so many voted with us, 
they voted themselves increases in their salaries for 10 years before 
raising the minimum wage. We accomplished that in H.R. 2.

We were able to introduce important medical research with stem cell 
research, to expand stem cell research in a careful and appropriate 
way, in the way that the American people wanted.

We started to help reform Medicare part D in H.R. 4.

We helped our students go to college in this country by cutting the 
rate of student loans in half, and we started a move towards energy 
independence by rolling back tax breaks for big oil companies.

In the last Congress, that Congress voted to cut taxes, give tax 
breaks to huge oil and gas companies while they saw record prices at 
the pump, and at the same time cut $12 billion in aid for our college 
students when we need to send people to college. So we passed H.R. 6, 
which started to pave the way for energy independence.

Having advanced that agenda, at this time I will yield to the 
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Wilson).