---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `da8c7eed78e8269cfa4869859032ae46`
`Mr. KERRY — 12 June 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, today Senators Baucus, Grassley and I, 
along with other Finance Committee members, are introducing the 
Defenders of Freedom Tax Relief Act of 2007. Earlier in the year, 
Senator Smith and I introduced the Active Duty Military Tax Relief Act 
of 2007, which would help those who are valiantly serving their country 
and the families that they leave behind.

The Defenders of Freedom on Tax Relief Act of 2007 includes several 
provisions from the Active Duty Military Tax Relief Act of 2007. It 
also includes additional provisions to help military families and 
veterans who often struggle financially.

The best definition of patriotism is keeping faith with those who 
wear the uniform of our country. That means giving our troops the 
resources they need to keep them safe while they are protecting us. And 
it means supporting our troops at home as well as abroad.

Currently, there are over 149,700 military personnel serving in Iraq. 
There are approximately 22,100 U.S. servicemembers in Afghanistan. Many 
of these men and women are reservists and have been called to active 
duty, frequently for multiple tours.

Most large businesses have the resources to provide supplemental 
income to reservist employees called up and to replace them with 
temporary employees. I applaud the businesses that have been able to 
pay supplemental income to their reservists, but


it is not easy for small businesses to do the same.

In January, the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship held 
a hearing on veterans' small business issues. A majority of our 
veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan are Reserve and National 
Guard members--35 percent of whom are either self-employed or own or 
are employed by a small business.

We heard some disturbing statistics about the impact and unintended 
consequences the call up of reservists is having on small businesses. 
According to a January 2007 survey conducted by Workforce Management, 
54 percent of the businesses surveyed responded that they would not 
hire a citizen soldier if they knew that they could be called up for an 
indeterminate amount of time. I am concerned that long call ups and 
redeployments have made it hard for small businesses to be supportive 
of civilian soldiers.

The Active Duty Military Tax Relief Act of 2007 provides a tax credit 
to small businesses to assist with the cost of paying the salary of 
their reservist employees when they are called to active duty. A 
similar provision is included in the Defenders of Freedom Tax Relief 
Act of 2007.

In addition to helping small businesses, the Active Duty Military Tax 
Relief Act of 2007 addresses concerns related to differential military 
pay, income tax withholding, and retirement plan participation. These 
provisions will make it easier for employers who would like to pay 
their employees supplemental income, above their military pay, and make 
pension contributions. Our legislation would make differential military 
pay subject to Federal income tax withholding. In addition, with 
respect to the retirement plan rules, the bill provides that a person 
receiving differential military pay would be treated as an employee of 
the employer making the payment, and allows the differential military 
pay to be treated as compensation. These provisions are included in the 
Defenders of Freedom Tax Relief Act of 2007.

The Active Duty Military Tax Relief Act of 2007 would make permanent 
the existing provision which allows taxpayer to include combat pay as 
earned income for purposes of the earned-income tax credit, EITC. 
Without this provision some military families would no longer be 
eligible to receive the EITC because combat pay is currently not 
taxable.

Last Congress, Senator Smith and I introduced the Fallen Heroes 
Family Savings Act, which we have incorporated into the Active Duty 
Military Tax Relief Act. This provision provides tax relief for the 
death gratuity payment that is given to families who have lost a loved 
one in combat. This payment is currently $100,000.

Our current tax laws do not allow the recipients of this payment to 
use it to make contributions to tax-preferred saving accounts that help 
with saving for retirement. The Active Duty Military Tax Relief Act of 
2007 would allow military death gratuities to be contributed to certain 
tax-preferred accounts. These contributions would be treated as 
qualified rollovers. A similar provision is included in the Defenders 
of Freedom Tax Relief Act of 2007.

Our service men and women need to know that we are honoring their 
valor by taking care of those they leave behind. Helping ease the tax 
burden on the death gratuity will enable military families to save more 
for retirement. These changes to our tax laws will help our military 
families with some of their financial burdens. It cannot repay the 
sacrifices they have made for us, but it is a small way we can support 
our troops and their families at home as well as abroad.