---
---

# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `da9a41268d8dbcd525ce8748047918d5`
`Ms. HOOLEY — 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. HOOLEY. Mr. Chairman, with four in 10 members of the military in 
Iraq and Afghanistan serving in the Reserve component, it is clear that 
our National Guard is no longer a strategic reserve, but an operational 
reserve. And as such, we must change the way we treat the Guard if we 
want to maintain recruitment and retention because it is the right and 
fair thing to do.

After 5 years of mobilization, both involuntary and voluntary, our 
National Guardsmen are still navigating the system that was intended 
for use by the active duty rather than our current nearly even blend of 
Reserve and active components.

My amendment to H.R. 1538, the Wounded Warriors Act, is simple. It 
allows members of the National Guard and Reserve who are returning from 
theater with minor injuries or other outpatient care needs the option 
to seek treatment at the military medical treatment facility closest to 
the member's home rather than closest to the base from which the member 
was deployed.



When an active duty soldier with certain injuries comes back to the 
United States, he gets treated at the medical facility closest at his 
home base where his family lives. But for Oregon Guardsmen and 
Reservists and soldiers from about a dozen other States that have no 
bases, our troops must remain for weeks at the base they deployed from 
for follow-up care. These can be hundreds or even thousands of miles 
away from home and family.

In 2004, I spoke with Monica Davey of the New York Times about the 
problem as she covered the issues in a series of front-page news 
stories. She quoted one spouse as saying, ''Having him in Iraq was hard 
enough. When he got hurt, I said, 'Well, at least he can come home now 
and get better here with us.' But it is a strange thing. He came home, 
but he is not home at all.''

This problem is old news and no longer on the front page, but it 
still goes on. Here are a couple examples of what happens when these 
Guard troops request treatment upon demobilization:

An Oregon Guardsman who returned months ago is still on the east 
coast base with medical issues. He and his wife have several young 
children; and, as can happen with lengthy deployments, the separation 
has strained their relationship to the breaking point. He has seen his 
family only once in the last 3 months. That soldier should have the 
option of seeking treatment at Fort Lewis in Washington State, much 
closer to his home.

Another story involves an enlisted man with a wife and young children 
who has seen his young family stateside only three times in the last 3 
months, once because the Army sent him home for convalescent leave, and 
the other two times over the holidays because his wife drove their 
children out to the east coast military treatment facility where he was 
awaiting care because they couldn't afford to fly.

These stories are heartbreaking; and, despite years of work on trying 
to get the problem fixed, little progress has been made. Since the 
start of the Iraq war in 2003, tens of thousands of Reservists and 
Guardsmen have been placed on medical hold.

As the New York Times reporter Ms. Davey aptly put it 3 years ago, 
''Unlike the most gravely injured soldiers receiving around-the-clock 
treatment at the finest military hospitals, these are ordinary soldiers 
with more ordinary wounds. The loneliest and the impatient can elect to 
go home even if they still need medical attention, but that could be a 
very expensive trade-off. Military rules dictate that they lose their 
active duty salaries, even though they may still be too injured or ill 
to return to their civilian jobs.''

Today, four out of 10 soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan are Guard or 
Reserve, and it is long past time for the DOD to adjust their policies 
and make improvements to the demobilization process for Guard members 
in States like mine that have no military treatment facilities. I ask 
for your support of this amendment so we can finally give soldiers from 
the Reserve component the flexibility to be treated for certain 
injuries at military medical treatment facilities nearest their homes 
and families just like the active component.

I yield to the gentleman from New Jersey.