---
---

# PROGRESS IN IRAQ
## `daa08ea2f37898d9a796b4343a5602c3`
`Mr. KYL — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. I think the Senator from South Carolina makes an exceedingly 
important point here, and that is that our theory, which was that the 
Muslim world itself had to reject this virulent, militant Islamist 
approach, which is manifested in the terrorism of al-Qaida; that until 
the Muslim world itself turned on those militants, those terrorists, it 
would be difficult for the West itself to actually defeat terrorism. It 
could pose a defensive posture, but it would not be defeated. What the 
Senator from South Carolina has said is what we are now seeing, as a 
result of the American support for the Iraqi people: A, a unification 
of the Iraqi people and, B, importantly, a rejection of this militant 
Islamist terrorism to the point that they are now joining in the fight 
and have something invested in that in terms of their country.

The question I want to ask has to do with how all of this relates to 
American security. Yesterday, Senator Warner asked both General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker whether, as a result of the success of 
the surge--and a key point that the Senator from South Carolina made, 
that now the Iraqi Muslim population was itself fighting to excise this 
cancer from the region--whether this fact does translate into America 
being safer. I wonder if the Senator could comment on both General 
Petraeus's response to that and Ambassador Crocker's response, and the 
Senator's own extensive experience and what his comments on that would 
be.