# None
## `daad7c4ce2b52b33cd145028c76822a4`
`Mr. DURBIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I have the greatest respect for the 
Senator from Arizona. We disagree on a number of issues. We have worked 
together on many others. I would like to respond to several things he 
said. Senator McCain asked us who is holding up this bill? Well, those 
who followed the debate know that a few minutes ago the majority 
leader, Senator Reid of Nevada, asked to move to vote on the amendment 
by Senators Levin and Reed. He asked for unanimous consent to move to a 
vote within a matter of hours.

Where did the objection come from? From the Republican side of the 
aisle. So in answering Senator McCain's question, who is holding up 
this bill, it is your side of the aisle, and specifically the Senator 
sitting next to you who objected to moving to a vote. That is what is 
holding up this bill.

The second question asked by the Senator from Arizona: Why are we 
debating the war on this bill? This bill happens to be the 
authorization for appropriations for fiscal year 2007 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense. If you do not debate the war 
in Iraq on the bill authorizing appropriations for the Department of 
Defense, where would you turn, the agriculture bill? I don't think so. 
This is the appropriate bill.

The Senator from Arizona has made that point. Included within the 
amendments to this bill are provision for our warriors who are coming 
home wounded. I have been part of putting that together. I thank 
Senator Levin, I thank Senator McCain. It is an important provision. 
But let's be very honest. The reason they are coming home wounded is 
because there is a war. It is fit and proper for us to ask whether that 
war is being waged effectively and whether our policy should be changed 
in this bill? If not on this bill, what bill would we use? I think, 
frankly, that many would rather we did not debate this at all; give 
permission to the President to wage the war as he wants as long as he 
wants: step out of the way, Congress, the President is in charge.

I don't accept that. Each of us represents our own State, represents 
people who expect us to articulate their point of view and speak for 
them. We do not cede all power in this Government to one branch, not to 
the executive branch. We have our own responsibility.

Let me say a word about waiting until September. Waiting until 
September, what difference would it make if we wait until September? 
What could it possibly cost us if we wait until September? Well, it is 
likely to cost us 200 American lives. We are losing 100 Americans, on 
average, every single month of this war. It is likely to cost us 2,000 
more injured soldiers; that is what 2 months means.

It is likely to cost us $24 billion from America's Treasury. It is 
not a matter of waiting for a convenient moment chosen by some to make 
this decision. Many of us believe this decision should be made now and 
it should be made here, and it should be made with the Levin-Reed 
amendment which is a reasonable bipartisan amendment.

The Republican side objects. They are filibustering. We have said 
this will not be the most modern form of filibuster. This goes back to 
the roots of the Senate. We will stay in business during the period of 
time when we are supposed to be debating. Whether we go to this 
amendment, we will invite members from both said of the aisle to 
express their point of view. I will tell you this, the people I 
represent in my State, the ones whom I meet, as Senator Leahy said of 
his voters in Vermont, want us to change this policy in this war. They 
want us to bring this war to an end. They understand, as we must 
understand, we never bargained for where we are today. America was 
misled into this war. We were told there were weapons of mass 
destruction, nuclear weapons, they threatened the Middle East, they 
threatened America. Not a single one has been found.

We were told that this dictator, Saddam Hussein, was the reason for 
this invasion. He is long gone--dug out of a hole in the ground, put on 
trial, and executed by his own people. Yet we still stay in this war, a 
war that has changed so drastically to the point that it is now a civil 
war and our soldiers, as good as they are, are caught in the crossfire 
of sectarian violence, now victims of al-Qaida terrorism that did not 
exist when we invaded Iraq, not in that country.

They are the ones who are the victims of bad planning and bad 
decisions. It is interesting to me how many Republican Senators see how 
poorly executed this war has been.

We all know our military is the best. But when it comes to the 
Commander in Chief and the generals, so many bad decisions have been 
made at the expense of our troops. It is interesting to me, they 
concede that point and yet want to continue: Let's just wait a few more 
months, maybe another year, maybe a year and a half, and then see what 
happens.

I was one of 23 Senators who voted against this authorization to go 
to war.