# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `dab5f1ab37f126a677a5da839d85d19f`
`Mr. HOYER — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to this resolution, 
which would urge the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, in 
my opinion, at great cost to America's security and, indeed, the Afghan 
people. But I want to rise as well to thank my friend, the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. Kucinich), with whom I work closely. This issue needs to 
be debated. This issue needs to be raised. The American people have a 
right to have us debate this issue.



Their young men and young women are in harm's way. They are in harm's 
way at our insistence, or at least at our sufferance. So it is right to 
have this debate. And while I disagree with the gentleman from Ohio, I 
appreciate the fact that he provides this opportunity to discuss this 
very, very important issue.

Madam Speaker, after years in which Afghanistan was a secondary 
concern, in my view, President Obama has set our policy on a new course 
which is already showing significant results. I believe that this is 
not the time to change that policy.

There is vast agreement that an indefinite presence in Afghanistan or 
Iraq is unacceptable. In Iraq we have reached the transition point of 
handing over responsibility to the central Government to take care of 
its own people. We see positive signs, such as the recent Iraq election 
in which 62 percent of the voters turned out in the face of terrorist 
violence. Was it perfect? It was not. Are there concerns yet about who 
could run and who could not? There are, appropriate concerns. But 
nevertheless, we see progress.

Given the increasing stability of the Iraq Government, President 
Obama is proceeding with responsible troop withdrawals. Today, 96,000 
American troops remain, down from 140,000 troops, and calculated and 
careful drawdowns continue. All American combat troops are set to leave 
Iraq by the end of August.

At the same time, the President conducted a comprehensive 
reevaluation of our Afghanistan policy, one in which all viewpoints 
were heard. Some thought it took too long; some of us believed it was a 
careful, thoughtful, and correct attention to an important decision.

The Obama administration came to the conclusion that a failed 
Afghanistan was the launching pad for terrorist attacks that killed 
thousands of Americans as well as a source of regional instability, and 
that a newly failed Afghan state could pose the same danger again. That 
is why we, in a bipartisan way, authorized troops to go to Afghanistan 
about a decade ago. That is why the President committed to a strategy 
of troop increases, not as an open-ended commitment, but as part of a 
limited strategy of counterinsurgency with withdrawals set to begin in 
the summer of 2011.



This is not a war we fight alone. Our allies understand that the 
threat of terrorism affects us all and have pitched in accordingly. 
Since the President's December 1 speech announcing his new policy, we 
have seen a sharp increase in international cooperation with our 
allies, pledging approximately 10,000 additional troops and more 
military trainees.

Our new Afghan strategy has already seen real success in Afghanistan 
and in Pakistan, which demonstrates that this resolution is especially 
ill-timed. Among the highlights of that success have been the capture 
of Mullah Baradar, the second-highest ranking member of the Taliban and 
most significant Taliban capture since the beginning of the war, and 
Mullah Abdul Kabir, a senior Taliban leader. Both were captured in 
Pakistan, which illustrates increased cooperation from the Pakistan 
Government, thanks in large part to the administration's careful 
diplomacy.

As The Washington Post put it on February 23, ''Pakistani security 
forces have long supported or turned a blind eye to Afghan Taliban 
members seeking sanctuary in Pakistan. The recent arrests seem to mark 
a change in that attitude.'' Clearly, success in Afghanistan will be 
posited on the success of those in Pakistan to act against sanctuaries. 
At the same time, the leadership of al Qaeda and Taliban has been 
severely damaged through strikes in Pakistan. And the new 
counterinsurgency strategy has been put to work in Marjah, an important 
district in Helmand province, where American, coalition, and Afghan 
troops have worked and fought successfully together to strengthen the 
central Government against Taliban fighters.

Let me say, the gentleman has made some comments about the Afghan 
central Government. All of us share the gentleman's concerns about the 
central Government. These are concerns that are properly raised and 
need to be addressed. However, there is no doubt that years of war 
against the Taliban and terrorists have imposed a heavy cost on the 
Afghan people. Despite those heavy costs, the Afghan people support the 
coalition's continued presence in their country, perhaps because they 
know that reprisals from an unchecked Taliban would be fierce and 
unforgiving. In fact, our failure to follow through when the Soviets 
withdrew resulted, very frankly, in the Taliban's presence.

According to a recent poll conducted by the BBC, ABC, and German 
television, 68 percent of Afghans want American troops to stay in their 
country and 56 percent of Afghans believe their country is headed in 
the right direction, compared to just 30 percent last spring. Just 
since last spring, we have seen almost a doubling of the view that 
Afghanistan is heading in the right direction on behalf of Afghan 
citizens.

Madam Speaker, there is no question that our strategy in Afghanistan 
and Pakistan has suffered from neglect, poor planning, and minimal 
diplomacy, but passing this resolution would show that we've learned 
the wrong lessons from those years of relative neglect. Abandoning 
Afghanistan just when a new strategy and new leadership has begun to 
bear fruit I think would be a mistake. And although I appreciate the 
gentleman's leadership and incisive analysis, which bears listening to, 
on this issue we disagree.

I would urge, therefore, my colleagues to vote ''no'' on the 
resolution before us.