---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `dab8f364dd880b10851d67dcc9bc5a76`
`Mr. CONYERS — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1591, the 
U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act.

This legislation will support our troops and veterans, hold the Bush 
Administration and Iraqi government accountable and bring our soldiers 
home by August 2008 or sooner. It will also provide emergency funding 
for critical programs that have suffered from years of neglect.

This supplemental appropriations bill provides emergency funding for 
critical programs that have long been underfunded by the Republicans. 
It includes $750 million to correct the funding shortfall in the State 
Children's Health Insurance program so that hundreds of thousands of 
children will not lose their health care. It provides $2.9 billion for 
Katrina relief and recovery. The bill also includes $2.6 billion for 
homeland security needs left unaddressed by Congressional Republicans, 
as well as $1.7 billion to remedy the unconscionable state of our 
military and veterans' health care systems. All of these issues are 
emergencies in their own right and rise to the level of inclusion in 
this emergency supplemental spending bill.

The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability 
Act requires the Iraqi government to meet the security, political and 
economic benchmarks established by the President in his address of 
January 10th, including improvements in the performance of the Iraqi 
security forces, a greater commitment by the Iraqi government to 
national reconciliation, and reductions in the levels of sectarian 
violence in Iraq.

If the Iraqi government is unable to meet these benchmarks by July 7 
of this year, redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq would begin 
immediately and must be completed by January of 2008. If the benchmarks 
are met, the latest possible starting date for redeployment would be 
March 1 of next year, with complete withdrawal by August 31.

The bill ensures that our troops have the tools and resources they 
need to do the job they have been asked to do. It prohibits the 
deployment of troops who are not fully trained, equipped and protected 
according to current Department of Defense standards. The President can 
only deploy unprepared troops if he certifies, in writing, to Congress, 
that deploying those troops in the national interest. The bill also 
provides funding so the Veterans Administration can meet the 
obligations of a new generation of veterans, particularly by ensuring 
that they will have the medical care they need.

I have been an outspoken opponent of military action against Iraq 
since the day the administration started beating the war drums. My 
preference would have been to vote for a stronger bill that would bring 
our troops home even sooner than this one. I am disappointed that the 
bill includes waivers to allow the President to send less than fully-
equipped troops into battle. I am also unhappy that the provision 
requiring the president to get Congressional approval for an attack on 
Iran was removed from the bill. I have additional concerns about the 
section of the bill that allows an unspecified number of U.S. troops to 
remain in Iraq after the August 2008 deadline to train Iraqis and fight 
terrorism.

However, I support this legislation in spite of these deficiencies 
because I believe it is an affirmative step towards our ultimate goal 
of ending the war. This bill is not everything that I would have liked, 
but it represents a critical turning point. No longer will this body 
uncritically hand over billions of dollars for the President to wage 
endless war. For the first time, Congress is considering binding 
legislation that sets a date certain for the end of the Iraq war. I 
will not help the Republicans defeat it.

The President and most Congressional Republicans ask that we continue 
to fund this war with ''no strings attached.'' But the United States 
cannot afford an open-ended commitment to a war without end. It is the 
responsibility of this Congress to devise a means to end the U.S. 
combat role in Iraq so that we can reclaim our position of leadership 
in the world and direct our resources back towards urgent needs here at 
home. I believe that this bill moves us towards these goals in an 
effective and responsible way.