# BOSTON RED SOX VICTORY IN 2007 MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL WORLD SERIES
## `dac19dffa5767a5c8ed541eac8137bc7`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Thank you, Congressman Lynch, for letting me join in on 
today's resolution.

I come from the southern end of Red Sox Nation in eastern 
Connecticut. We are still closer to Fenway Park than we are to Yankee 
Stadium or Shea Stadium, so it's still safe for me to publicly speak 
out on this resolution.

As someone from a multigenerational Red Sox family like Mr. Capuano, 
we suffered and worried and have terrible memories, but obviously this 
is not our fathers' Red Sox any more.



This is a great team that combined a lot of new players, Dustin 
Pedroia, ''Jake'' Jacoby Ellsbury, Daisuke Matzusaka, along with the 
2004 veterans of the last World Series, to again have another great 
exciting season, particularly the ALCS where they came back down 3-1.

As Mr. Capuano said, Red Sox Nation extends far and wide. Last March 
I was on board the USS Alexandria, a nuclear submarine out of Groton, 
Connecticut, under the ice in Alaska. I spent a day driving around with 
a great crew, professional and just so impressive in the work they do 
for our Nation. Sat down for breakfast after sleeping onboard the ship 
and was immediately confronted by the sailors who said they had only 
one question for me. I figured it was the war on Iraq, health care. And 
the one question was, Yankees or Red Sox? I was able to reassure them 
that I was a Red Sox fan, since they all were as well.

But one of the sailors indicated to me that he was coming up for re-
enlistment and his dream was to do it in Fenway Park in front of the 
Green Monster. When I came back to Washington, we contacted President 
Lucchino of the Red Sox, who bent over backwards for this sailor and 
his family, his fiance, and they did, in fact, stage a re-enlistment 
ceremony in front of the Green Monster, wearing the 2004 ring as he 
signed the papers, committing himself again to our Nation. And I just 
want to read from the Boston Globe the comment of Petty Officer 
Vecchione who said, ''It's a sacred place. I had the ring on my finger 
as if I was married to the Red Sox for a few minutes.''

And I think really what that incident showed, though, is that we have 
a management who sees that it's a two-way street in Red Sox Nation. We 
love our players, but they love their fans; and that's why we have such 
a great fan base who are so passionate about this incredible team that 
goes back to the early days of baseball.

And I appreciate again the bipartisan support and even the support 
from some Members who root for other teams in this resolution and urge 
its passage.