---
---

# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `dac4f60f32b30007362b3b43cbdbeb52`
`Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia — 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia. I thank the illustrious chairman of our 
committee, who has done so much hard work in moving forward U.S. 
foreign policy.

Mr. Chairman, I, of course, rise in support of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act.

President Obama has redefined the playbook and raised expectations 
for America's engagement in the global stage. As we all know too well, 
the U.S. is involved in two theaters of war in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Defeating extremist militants will require the proper diplomatic 
resources, and as Secretary Gates has stated in both the Bush and Obama 
administrations, we cannot win these wars by sheer force alone.

To this end, the bill authorizes funding for 1,500 new Foreign 
Service officers. It strengthens the Peace Corps by making it U.S. 
policy to double the number of volunteers and by authorizing $400 
million in fiscal year 2010 and $450 million in fiscal year 2011. It 
requires that the President conduct an 18-month strategic review of 
defense trade controls beginning not later than March 31, 2010, to 
determine the effectiveness of current export regimes.

According to the Defense Department, the Department of State's 
mission is critical. On July 15, Secretary of Defense Gates said, 
''Truly harnessing the full strength of America requires having 
civilian institutions of diplomacy and development that are adequately 
staffed and properly funded.''