---
---

# None
## `dac96f27f95026003bf87eb09e1978f1`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman's courtesy as 
I appreciate his leadership.

One of the most important things the United States did in the 
aftermath of World War II was to help returning veterans with housing. 
In my home State of Oregon, in 1945 we established a veterans home loan 
program which, for over 60 years, has provided over a third of a 
million loans, a value that is approaching $8 billion, which has 
changed the lives of the veterans and their families as it has helped 
revitalize communities.

Unfortunately, in Oregon, as in other States like Alaska, Wisconsin, 
California, and Texas, we are bumping up against limits in dealing with 
this program. We do not have the bonding capacity to be able to deal 
with the flood of returning veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan, who are 
every bit as worthy of our help and support as veterans from Korea or 
World War II.

The House legislation that went forward corrected this situation, 
adding an increase in the bond cap; and it made a modification for 
eligible veterans of more recent wars to be included. Unfortunately, 
the other body, inexplicably, following rules that Daniel Webster and 
John C. Calhoun would recognize today, allowed a minority to strip away 
these important provisions.

It is important for us to repass this legislation that affirms that 
we are going to do right by veterans in Alaska, Oregon, Wisconsin, 
California and Texas, raise those limits, and extend the coverage to 
warriors that are returning from these conflicts.

I strongly urge my colleagues to not just pass this legislation but 
to make clear to our friends in the other body


that this is one of our go-home items of legislation that we are going 
to insist upon.