---
---

# None
## `dad73538e3c0dfa98679988c0a74cd6d`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. In your litany of things where they made promises, 
made promises, made promises, none of them turned out to be accurate or 
true.

One of them that just still boggles my mind is, just a few weeks 
after the invasion into Iraq, George Bush was on that aircraft carrier, 
saying, ''Mission accomplished.'' John McCain was saying, ''Mission 
accomplished.'' All of these guys were saying, ''Mission 
accomplished.'' We are now 5-years plus since that time.

Now, our men and our women have been doing an unbelievable job. 
Initially, their equipment was not proper. Their vehicles weren't built 
in a way that was safe. We've changed that. We've helped them because 
they've done a job that has been above and beyond the call of duty, but 
it's the Commander in Chief and the judgment of the Commander in Chief 
who is in place today that we have to question, his judgment and the 
judgment of whom we want to be Commander in Chief.

Who has the right judgment? Who can really take our reputation from 
what's now down in the gutter internationally and raise it back up? Who 
has the judgment to get this country working again? Who has the 
judgment and the energy and the ability to renew the strength of this 
country, to call on all of us to make the sacrifices and to meet the 
challenges that we've got ahead of us that we know will lead us back to 
the great Nation that we are and to the great people that we are?

It's not the same old administration. It's not the same old people. 
It's not the Karl Roves of the world. We're going to have to finish 
this change because we can do much better than we've done.

So, with that, I'll yield to my friend from Wisconsin.