# EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `dadbab85bc0d9da46a1b78d51cc2bfb4`
`Mr. HUNTER â€” 29 September 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, as we move to vote on the ''bailout'' of 
weakened institutions in the U.S. and abroad, it is appropriate to 
address the emerging question: Where does the U.S. go from here? Most 
instructive is the fact that the nations which appear to be cash-rich 
in the financial crisis are those which have strong manufacturing based 
economies . . . China and Japan. China presently holds $502 billion of 
American debt followed by Japan which tops the list of American 
creditors with $592 billion in U.S. debt. Following the bailout and the 
sale of toxic assets to U.S. taxpayers, China and Japan will have 
additional cash, some of which can be loaned back to the U.S. to pay 
for the bailout.

A few years ago, an American manufacturer seeking a loan package from 
a major Wall Street firm recalled the threshold condition,


''before we talk about your loan package, you must tell us when, not 
if, you are moving your production facility to China.'' This has been 
the reality for U.S. manufacturers for the past 10 years or so. The 
defacto tariff, of 17 percent in China's case and 15 percent in Japan's 
case dampens U.S. exports to those countries and the same tariff; know 
as the VAT tax subsidizes Japan's and China's industries when those 
nations rebate the tax to them upon export to the U.S. This built in 
trade advantage of the VAT tax is not limited to the ''big two'' but is 
employed by 130 other trading nations to disadvantage the U.S. 
manufacturers.

As a result, thousands of financial advisors last year told their 
clients that for tax and tariff reasons it made sense to move their 
production offshore, even when their operations in the U.S. were 
healthy.

The manufacturing bases of Japan and China are now generating the 
cash needed to purchase big pieces of the U.S. financial community. 
Mitsubishi UFJ has now acquired about 20 percent of Morgan Stanley for 
$8.4 billion, China Investment Corporation picked up 10 percent of the 
bank earlier this year for $5.5 billion.

The movement of U.S. manufacturing offshore damages the U.S. in two 
major ways. The cause of the present economic crisis, the devaluation 
of U.S. real estate, is contributed to by the growing inability of our 
citizens to meet substantial mortgage payments with their wages. 
Service sector jobs do not produce the take home pay that can carry the 
payment schedule of appreciated homes in the U.S. Manufacturing jobs 
have historically supported the heart of the 1500 to 2000 square foot 
home market but now they are scarce. For a long time the housing market 
itself has represented the last of the major manufacturing effort in 
the U.S. Homes are simply a composite of material and labor, called 
''product'' by home builders. Every community which has experienced a 
strong home building surge understands the ripple effect of high wages 
from construction operations. Now this last major manufacturing 
initiative in the U.S. has ebbed and the toxic-debt left in the wake of 
over valued real estate packages is resulting in a new debt package, 
this time for taxpayers, which could reach $700 billion.

Now is the time for the U.S. to rebuild our manufacturing base. We 
should now:

(1) Eliminate taxes on U.S. manufacturing. This would offset the 15 
to 20 percent tariffs now being charged on U.S. exports by our trading 
competitors.

(2) Adopt ''mirror trade'' rules with our trading partners that treat 
foreign exports from any given nation in the same way they treat ours. 
For example, a 15 percent Japanese border tax will be met with a 
reciprocal tax for their exports at U.S. borders.

(3) Have a commission review unfair trade practices by other nations, 
including lack of enforcement for intellectual property rights and 
impose tariffs or other penalties to balance unfair foreign treatment.

(4) Reduce rate licenses from U.S. government laboratories and U.S. 
government sponsored research when the intellectual property created is 
used in U.S. manufacturing.

(5) Fund the development of robotics and manufacturing sciences with 
emphasis on our academic institutions.

A few years ago when roadside bombs began to massively increase U.S. 
casualties in Iraq, I detailed our staff teams from the House Armed 
Services Committee to locate steel companies in the U.S. which produced 
high grade armor plate. Only one such company remained in the U.S. This 
dissolution of the U.S. defense industrial base, once known as the 
arsenal of democracy is a by-product of the manufacturing exodus. 
National security requirements should compel a restoration of U.S. 
manufacturing, as much as our present economic situation does.

Rebuilding U.S. manufacturing should be America's next step forward 
toward solid economic footing.