---
---

# TAX INCREASES PROJECTED UNDER DEMOCRATS
## `dadee8c7de307050394671a881de822d`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. Gone. And much of the $2 million we spent completing the 
well will also be gone and there is no way to recover that. So the 
folks in this business are big time risk takers.

Now, let me show you how big time they are. In the 5 years in between 
1999 and 2005, I guess that will be 6 years, the smallest U.S. E&P 
companies reinvested 898 percent of their profits back in the ground. 
Now what that means is they took their profits, as well as borrowed a 
lot of money against the reserves that they found in the ground to 
reinvest in the oil business. All the way up to the super E&P 
companies, those are the large publicly traded companies that are in 
the exploration and production business. They have reinvested 247 
percent of their profits back in the ground to find additional oil and 
natural gas reserves.

The integrated, U.S. integrated oil companies, the very largest in 
our country, ExxonMobil, Chevron, Phillips, all these guys, 174 percent 
of their profits back in the ground.

So, as we take dollars, whether in this tax increase that we are 
going to, however they come out of it, those are dollars that will not 
go back into the ground to find additional supply of domestic oil and 
natural gas. And each time we do that, it reduces the investment, it 
reduces all of the activities that are associated with that. And the 
bottom line is that we have a shortage of supply of crude oil and 
natural gas. And the law of supply and demand generally works in most 
businesses. It clearly works in this business. And if we have a 
shortage of, as we saw, as Katrina, shortages as a result of natural 
disasters and other things, you get a spike in prices.

Well, we have got a systemic problem with crude oil and natural gas 
worldwide because, in addition to the supply not going up nearly as 
fast as the demand is going up, with China becoming an industrialized 
country and India becoming an industrialized country, the demand for 
crude oil worldwide has outstripped our ability to produce and increase 
the production in crude oil.

That could be temporarily offset if we could drill in places like 
Iraq and Iran, where they have let their oil and gas industry languish 
for lack of investment and upgrading. But even then that would only be 
a short-term fix.

So the impact that this tax rate increase will have on Thursday, if 
it turns out to be a law, is that there will be less searching for 
domestic crude oil and natural gas. And it seems counterproductive to 
me to talk, on the one hand, about reducing our reliance on foreign 
crude oil and natural gas, and then turn around and penalize and rein


in the people who are trying to provide domestic crude oil and natural 
gas.