# None
## `dae9a111197a9be2220991975e5e9b17`
`Mr. BOND — 22 June 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, as a Member of the Senate who has traveled 
every year to Southeast Asia and met frequently with government leaders 
from that region when they visited the United States, I believe America 
has great interests in that region, and that we need to pay more 
attention here in Washington, DC and across the Nation, to our allies 
and partners in Southeast Asia.

This region, economically, politically, strategically important, it 
is our 5th largest in total volume trading partner. Serving as a 
cornerstone to SE Asia and the lynchpin to its stability, prosperity 
and security lie in Indonesia.

When I have asked leaders from all over Southeast Asia how they are 
doing, they always include a reference to Indonesia. Indonesia is the 
world's largest Muslim country and as a democracy, that makes it the 
largest Muslim democracy as well.

On the darker side, it is also a key country in what many in the 
intelligence community, and I agree, is the second front in the war on 
terror that we confront. It is home to the Islamist terrorist group, 
Jemah Islamiya, which next to al-Qaeda, is one of the greatest threats 
to American security and peace in the world.

Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has been executing an 
ambitious agenda for anti-corruption, political and economic reform. He 
represents Indonesia's best hope for continuing down a path towards 
stability, prosperity, pluralism, democracy and security. Such a path 
is not only in our own economic interests, but is also essential to 
control the terrorist threat and the reach of al-Qaeada and Jemah 
Islamiah in Southeast Asia.

Since the fall of President Suharto, the Indonesian people have 
elected three new presidents, impeached one, and experienced several 
peaceful transfers of power. They have held direct elections of a 
president. They have amended their constitution in order to


be more democratic and transparent. They have given the judicial branch 
independent administrative and financial authority. They continue to 
reform their military in accordance with democratic, civilian-
controlled principles.

They have recently provided a battalion to support the UNIFIL forces 
in Lebanon; and Indonesia was recently cited by Freedom House as 
Southeast Asia's only truly ''free'' nation.

But despite all the progress being made, we in Congress seem to 
continue to look for every transgression to put our relationship on 
hold and move it backwards.

The truth is that as a country, Indonesia has made truly remarkable 
progress in a very short period of time. As such, they deserve 
continued support and engagement, not restrictions and retractions.

We should recognize the accomplishments of the Indonesian people and 
encourage them in their pursuit of a successful transformation to a 
democratic nation.

This is why I, along with my distinguished colleague Senator Inouye, 
am proud to introduce a resolution recognizing Indonesia's 
accomplishments and the increasingly mutually beneficial relationship 
between Indonesia and the U.S.

As an archipelago of over 200 million people, if Indonesia were 
superimposed over the top of the United States, it would span from 
Florida to Alaska. The size of Indonesia and the fact that they have 
17,000 islands at low water, 13,000 at high tide, presents a tremendous 
challenge in defending its borders and dealing with potential terrorist 
activities on its distant islands or remote jungles.

The Indonesian armed forces are a necessary partner in this battle. 
When Jemah Islamiah bombed the Bali nightclub in 2002, killing 202 
people, Indonesia's military, policing and intelligence capabilities 
were in poor condition. Of late however, Indonesia's security forces 
have ''gained the upper hand,'' according to the Economist, June 16th, 
2007 with the capture and arrest of some of Jemah Islamiah's top 
commanders.

Leadimg the fight against terror is Indonesia's new police unit 88, 
which was set up with the help of American and Australian Security 
forces. Among the terrorists captured was Abu Dujana, one of 
Indonesia's most wanted terrorists. Dujana apparently took over as 
military leader of JI when their former leader and bomb maker, Azahari 
Husin, was in 2005 killed and had earned the dubious honor of being 
named the most wanted terrorist in the country. And over the last 12 
months, the Indonesians have captured or killed 47 terrorists, 
including several key leaders.

The article also went on to say. . . .




 No large-scale attacks have taken place since 2005. With 


 the help of their Australian and American counterparts, 


 Indonesia's national police have greatly improved their 


 tracking of militants and have rounded up some of JI's top 


 leaders.


In the recent past, there have been various forms of restrictions on 
our relations with the Indonesian military in light of terrible abuses 
that were committed by the TNI in East Timor. However, our 
reinstatement of military relations and the restoration of 
International Military Education & Training or IMET, has resulted in 
continued positive trends.

It is interesting to note that the current President, when he was a 
military leader, was in the last class of IMET leaders from Indonesia 
to come to the United States. He, in his own person, demonstrates the 
appreciation of civilian control. Some in this body and the other body 
want to impose new restriction to hinder, not help, the productive 
influence our military can and has had on the TNI.

We must expand and continue to improve our relations with the TNI, 
not restrict and retract. IMET provides for adherence to the Code of 
Military Justice, civilian of the military, respect for human rights, 
and proper treatment of population principles that should be instilled 
in military forces.

Further, IMET establishes important relationships and alliances among 
our military leaders and commanders of friendly foreign forces. It 
assures they understand how to conduct military or relief operations 
together. and, it keeps the U.S. engaged in a region where China is 
increasingly, extending its influence. When I visited the North Western 
province of Ache, right after the Tsunami, the fact that their military 
had not trained with us caused us great military operational 
difficulties.

Some in Congress apparently want to reimpose sanctions on IMET 
participation because of the past and perceived military abuses, but as 
Walter Lohman, Director of Asian Studies at the Heritage Foundation, 
has said:




 accountability for past human rights abuses and the proper 


 role of the militia are legitimate. But the United States 


 needs to get to a point where it addresses these concerns 


 with the same respect it affords other democratic partners, 


 like the Europeans or the Japanese


Many leaders in that region have told me, privately, they believe 
U.S. active engagement and association with their countries is 
essential to stop China from extending hegemony over the region. 
Whether China is viewed as a threat or an opportunity, they are 
actively courting their neighbors in SE Asia; They are sending official 
trade missions, signing trade agreements and investing their large 
reserves in securing sources of energy and natural resources. Make no 
mistake about it, they are aggressively building up a military force 
navy capable of extending beyond the straits of Taiwan.

The opportunities and the challenges related to China seeking to 
extend its influence over Southeast Asia should concern us both 
economically and militarily. States of Southeast Asia, notably 
Indonesia, Singapore, and Malaysia, control the important Malacca 
Straits; Straits through which one quarter of all the shipping in the 
world passes and one half of the petroleum products carried by ocean-
going vessels pass.

Beyond those interests, it remains my thesis that we should pay 
attention to Southeast Asia--particularly Indonesia--as the second 
front in the war on terrorism.

Indondsia represents the best hope for fostering a moderate Islam 
that recognizes the true peaceful nature of that religion in opposition 
to the radical terrorist-inspiring versions of Islam.

With Southeast Asia and its large Muslim population, we have an 
opportunity through constructive forms of engagement; to ensure they 
become a solid foundation for peace, security and economic prosperity 
in this critical part of the world. Whether it is more peace corps 
volunteers, education initiatives, leadership exchanges, IMET or 
sending Navy ships such as the USS Mercy and USS Peleliu on 
humanitarian missions to the region.

We can do it without the need for massive military actions such as 
those we have undertaken in Afghanistan and Iraq to root out the 
terrorists and in those cases, the governments that harbored them. In 
other words, more sandals on the ground now, will prevent having to put 
boots on the ground in future.

I urge my colleagues to support countries like Indonesia in their 
path towards peace, democracy and pluralism, as opposed to restricting 
and pushing them towards more radical, terrorist-inspiring versions of 
Islam.

I ask or behalf of Senator Inouye and myself that the resolution be 
sent to the desk and ask that it be referred appropriately.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record the articles 
from the June 16th Economist and from Walter Lohman of the Asian 
Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation.