---
---

# ENERGY
## `daf65aabe2cb17e74a1c14951375f5bc`
`Mr. ENSIGN — 18 January 2007`

---


Mr. ENSIGN. Mr. President, we are debating an important piece of 
legislation. The American people are rightly frustrated with the 
process Congress uses to consider. That is to say, it is not done in 
the light of day and with full transparency. They believe lobbyists 
have too much influence on this institution. Last year, we tried to 
pass a lobbying reform bill to help clean up some of the ways that we 
do legislation around here. We were not able to come to an agreement 
between the House and Senate, so there is another effort underway this 
year.

I think this legislation is very important. Republicans support 
reform. We have been offering relative amendments to make Congress more 
accountable to the American people. More transparent. These amendments 
will address the problems that have existed for some time. The 
majority, however, is trying to end the debate on this bill. They are 
not willing to let the Senate consider some very important amendments 
that will improve how Congress handles the people's business. I will 
mention a couple of my own amendments to this legislation in just a 
moment. I would say that the majority would be right to cut off debate, 
if Republicans were strictly trying to obstruct passage of this bill. 
Then their parliamentary move would, I agree, be appropriate. But the 
minority is not being obstructionist. We have legitimate amendments 
that deserve to be debated and voted on. Senators deserve to be heard. 
It is not right for the majority to try to railroad this piece of 
legislation through this body without giving Members their right to 
have amendments debated. Particularly when those amendments are not 
being used as a delaying tactic. I simply do not believe that is the 
way this institution should be run. That is why, last night, 45 
Senators voted against what is called cloture. That would have brought 
debate to a close and would have brought any attempt to improve this 
legislation to a close.

Let me give you two examples of legitimate amendments that have been 
offered and why they are important to be debated and voted on.

The first amendment I want to talk about addresses provisions where 
this bill falls short, particularly with respect to transparency and to 
allow the American people to observe how this Congress operates. 
Section 102 of this bill is an example of where the bill falls short. I 
commend the authors of the legislation for including this section. The 
intent is to stop the conferees from putting unrelated pieces of 
legislation in a conference report. Too often in the past conferees 
have inserted provisions in the conference that were completely 
unrelated to the bill. This simply is not the way the Congress should 
be legislating. The Senate should not bypass the regular legislative 
process. When we do, it means we are passing legislation, in some 
cases, without even holding a hearing. This process also denies 
Senators the opportunity to debate and offer amendments to improve 
unrelated provisions. But the most offensive part of this is that it is 
done outside of the public's view.

In a democracy such as ours, Congress should do its business in the 
full light of day. The entire Senate should consider, debate, and amend 
legislation in full view of the American public. I often hear from 
constituents who have concerns about legislation we are debating on the 
Senate floor. That feedback has always been important to me. I have 
always appreciated Nevadans who have taken the time to participate in 
the legislative process. So when we insert unrelated matters into a 
conference report, we deny the American people the chance to observe 
what we are doing, to participate in that process, and to be heard. 
That is why I fully support the intent of section 102 of the bill 
because the intent is to fix that which is broken.

In my review of this section, and after consulting with the Senate 
Parliamentarian's Office, I don't believe that the current language in 
this bill will work. This section will not change what we are saying 
needs to be changed. What do I mean? First and foremost, section 102 
states that a Senator may object to a conference report that contains 
provisions that were not considered by the House or the Senate. That 
sounds good. As written, this sentence reads how rule XXVIII actually 
operates; that is to say that the point of order is raised against the 
entire conference report and not the offending provision or 
objectionable item in a conference report.


While the intent of section 102 is to allow a Senator to object to a 
single provision that is added into the bill, the bill is not written 
to allow that. My amendment makes it clear that the point of order is 
to be raised against an individual item that is in the conference 
report and not the conference report itself. In other words, this 
small, simple change is absolutely critical to the process because if 
you want to strip something out of the bill, without my amendment you 
cannot strip a single provision out of the bill. You raise a point of 
order and it brings the entire conference report down. Why is that 
important? Well, let me tell you why it is important.

For instance, we had a port security bill last year. There was an 
unrelated item put into the port security bill. There may have been 
objections to that item, but if one had raised the point of order, it 
would have brought the whole port security bill down. Nobody wanted to 
do that. It was an important piece of legislation. Without my 
amendment, that is the way we would continue to operate.

But that is not what section 102 in this bill states. Its intent is 
to be able to surgically go in and cut out a piece that is added in the 
dead of night, behind closed doors, in a conference report--the types 
of things that, frankly, most Americans find objectionable. So this is 
one of the reasons that we should not be passing this legislation until 
the Senate has carefully considered each provision of this bill. We 
should allow for amendments to go forward, to be debated. We should 
make sure that we get things in this bill right before it leaves the 
Senate, so that when it is joined with the House's bill, we have done 
the best possible job to ensure that we cleaned up the way we do our 
business.

I have another amendment that I want to talk about. This illustrates 
the other important point of why it is important to allow Senators to 
have their time with amendments.

The minority--the Republicans in the Senate--want legitimate 
amendments to improve this legislation. I believe we should have the 
right to offer those amendments.

The second amendment I want to talk about is to ensure that our men 
and women in the military, those serving in harm's way, remain our top 
budget priority. I want to speak about protecting defense spending from 
being raided and used for nondefense purposes.

Over the past several years, there have been several congressional 
scandals that have undermined public confidence in government. It is my 
sincere hope that this legislation before us will be the first of many 
steps to restore that confidence. The message to both parties last 
November was that Congress has to change the way we operate. The 
American people will no longer accept some of the practices of the 
past, nor should they. It is up to this body to change our practices, 
to reform how Congress does the people's business. We should ensure 
that our dealings are transparent, that we are accountable, and that we 
are honest with the American people.



The tradition of America is that we rise to the occasion. Americans 
have a history of meeting the challenges that we face together. Each 
generation has met obstacles and overcome them. For Congress's part, we 
must be honest and straightforward with the American people about the 
nature of the challenges facing our Nation.

Unfortunately, in some respects, Congress has not lived up to its end 
of the bargain. We have been using sleight of hand and budget gimmicks 
to mask our out-of-control spending habits. Over the past 5 years, 
Congress has been underfunding defense in the regular appropriations 
process in order to shift some of those funds into what are called 
other discretionary programs that are nondefense items.

The game being played, with a wink and a nod, is that if we underfund 
defense in the regular appropriations process, we will then make 
defense whole with what are called emergency supplemental bills. In 
some instances, Congress has shifted as much as $11.5 billion from 
defense to nondefense spending in just 1 single year. We know that 
emergency spending has increased substantially in each of the last 5 
years.

I have a chart to illustrate this. In the years 1990 to 1993, under 
the first President Bush, we had a total of $115 billion in emergency 
supplementals. During the Clinton administration, the total was just 
about the same, $115 billion. Since President Bush has been in office, 
there have been a total of $585 billion in emergency supplementals. 
Now, we have had 9/11, Katrina, and we have had the war against Islamic 
extremists around the world, including the wars in Afghanistan and 
Iraq, that account for most of that spending but not for all of it.

This increased reliance on supplementals coincides exactly with the 
same time period in which defense has been underfunded. The effects of 
this gimmick are not felt just in 1 year either. Because of the way we 
do budgeting, called baseline budgeting, money that is shifted from 
defense in 1 year is really a permanent shift in funding. And, as a 
result, a $1 billion shift represents not only a shift of $1 billion 
this year, but that is put in the baseline next year and adds up 
cumulatively in perpetuity.

Let me point out exactly how this works and illustrate it. In 2002, 
$1.9 billion in new spending was shifted from the Department of 
Defense. That new spending is built into the baseline in the next year. 
The green part of the graph is from the previous year. The red part on 
top of that is the amount that defense was underfunded and shifted into 
other programs that year. Take that and shift it into the next year, 
and on and on, where we have a total of 4 years later built into the 
baseline the $29 billion that we have shifted from defense into other 
programs. That is one of the reasons spending is out of control in 
Washington, DC. What was labeled as defense spending is not spent on 
defense and is then being made up in supplemental appropriations bills. 
Which is a clever way to disguise increased spending in other places. 
People in Washington have talked about spending around here. They say 
we have held the line on spending, except for defense-related items. 
That is not true. We have actually been playing a smoke and mirrors 
game, and this chart illustrates that.

I believe what we are doing is not honest with the American people, 
and we have the annual budget deficits as a result of that. I mentioned 
before that it is important for us to be able to offer amendments. I 
would not be able to offer an amendment if cloture is invoked on this 
bill, and we should not cut off debate. This would be considered a 
nongermane amendment. It would not survive cloture, even though the 
point of this bill is to require legislative transparency. We are 
trying to make Congress' actions transparent and to clean up the budget 
process, however, the majority is trying to cut off debate on these 
critical reforms.


I am going to have one last chart to demonstrate the effect of this 
budget gimmick. The total effect of underfunding defense and playing 
this game has cost the American people. This last chart, when one 
totals the cost of this gimmick up, is $84 billion. We have shifted $84 
billion by using these budget gimmicks. $84 billion that was shifted 
from defense to nondefense programs. Then we backfill the defense 
accounts with supplemental appropriations.

We need to have honest budgeting around this place. We need to be 
honest with the American people. If we are going to appropriate money 
for defense, let's do it for defense. If it has to be for some other 
program, let's be honest with the American people and stop playing 
these budget gimmick games.

If we are going to have transparency in Government, we should have 
transparency in Government. Accountability in government. That is what 
this bill is supposed to be about. It is what we are telling the 
American people that we intend to do. This amendment, along with the 
one I discussed earlier, are very important to ensure that we end the 
games and that we end the gimmicks. This amendment ensures that we tell 
the truth to the American people.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.