---
---

# NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `daf73566db04f5faf3de423b63c9d156`
`Ms. WATERS — 7 May 2008`

---


Ms. WATERS. Madam Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Chairman and Members, I would like to thank all of the Members 
who have come to the floor today in support of this legislation because 
they understand the devastation to neighborhoods all over this country.

I have listened very carefully to the arguments from the opposite 
side of the aisle, and none of them rise to the merit of being able to 
oppose this bill because they're substantive arguments.

First of all, I have heard Members on the opposite side of the aisle 
talk about taxes. They have talked about gasoline. They have talked 
about everything except what we are here to talk about: the fact that 
there has been a subprime meltdown in this country and many 
neighborhoods are devastated. We have homes that are being stripped of 
the copper. We have homes that have been boarded up with vandals inside 
those homes, oftentimes living inside those homes, with the weeds 
growing up in many of these properties, and the value of the homes in 
the neighborhood where people are attempting to maintain their homes is 
going down every day.

We had one Member on the opposite side of the aisle talk about how 
flush these cities are with money. Evidently, he has not looked at what 
is going on in the cities and States. Many of them are in deficit 
situations. They're in deficit situations because we're in this 
recession, this nonperforming economy under the leadership of the 
President of the United States where the price of food has risen, 
gasoline prices are up, and the subprime mess is fueling the problems 
of our economy. And with all of this that has taken place under this 
President and this administration, you would think that the Members on 
the opposite side of the aisle would want to come to the aid of their 
constituents.

We have talked about the $30 billion bailout under the Fed Chairman 
that was appointed by this President. And I am sure, since we did not 
get a call in the middle of the night to even discuss with us that the 
bailout was going to take place, I'm sure that the Fed Chairman called 
the President that appointed him. And I would give anything--I would 
place money on the line--to tell you that the President approved of 
that bailout. And so why not bail out the people who deserve to be 
helped? People, many of them who got into loans that were lured into 
these loans, lured into these mortgages by unscrupulous real estate 
brokers who


told them to just sign on the dotted line, by unscrupulous folks 
representing some of the financial institutions who said get into this 
ARM and when it resets, I will be there to help you refinance it, and, 
of course, they're not there. These people, many of them have lost 
these homes through no fault of their own.

But the neighborhoods are being devastated. We have information here 
that tells us how much crime will be fostered on the neighborhoods. As 
a matter of fact, what we have learned is that when there is one 
foreclosure, it leads to not only vandalism that affects the entire 
neighborhood, but it also increases the crime. This has all been 
documented.

I would think that the representatives who have been sent here by the 
people who have voted for them would want to be able to go home and say 
to their constituents, I understand what's going on in the 
neighborhoods; to say to their mayors and to say to their Governors and 
to say to their county commissioners, ''We are here to help.'' Yes, we 
are spending a lot of money on other things. As a matter of fact, many 
of the Members on the opposite side of the aisle, in a matter of hours, 
are going to vote for over $107 billion in supplemental funding to 
continue the war in Iraq.



Many of these Members have voted to give tax increases to the richest 
1 percent in America. The least they could do is vote for the citizens 
and for their cities.

I yield back the balance of my time.