# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `db05c50d779c7fb062c29906df569a02`
`Ms. COLLINS — 20 December 2010`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the New START 
treaty. Before I begin, I would like to thank Senator Kerry and Senator 
Lugar for their leadership on this important arms control agreement.

When I first began to consider this treaty, I considered the 
fundamental question of whether we are better off with it or without it 
since the previous START treaty expired a year ago. By reducing the 
number of deployed nuclear weapons in a mutual and verifiable way, I 
believe that this treaty does enhance our security, but it is not 
without flaws.

Our choice is not, however, between some ideal treaty and the New 
START treaty. It is between this treaty and having no inspection regime 
in place at all since the previous START treaty expired in December of 
2009.

In evaluating this treaty, I scrutinized several issues including the 
effect on our Nation's security, the need to modernize our nuclear 
deterrent, the effectiveness of verification and inspection regimes, 
and the impact on missile defense.

These and other issues were fully covered in classified briefings as 
well as in the seven Senate Armed Services Committee hearings that I 
attended that included testimony from Secretary of Defense Gates, 
Secretary of State Clinton, Admiral Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, and General Chilton, the commander of our nuclear 
forces. We also heard testimony from the three current directors of our 
national nuclear laboratories and a number of former government 
officials and national security experts.

I met personally with Rose Gottemoeller, the top U.S. treaty 
negotiator, and sought counsel from GEN Brent Scowcroft, who has served 
as an adviser to four Republican Presidents and was the National 
Security Adviser to President George H. W. Bush.

I also have met with a wide range of Mainers--foreign policy experts, 
religious leaders, and former members of the military--who expressed 
their views on the treaty to me.

Clearly, the New START treaty enjoys broad bipartisan support. 
Secretaries of State for the past five Republican Presidents, including 
GEN Colin Powell, support its ratification, as does former Maine 
Senator and former Secretary of Defense Bill Cohen.

No Member of this body should support a treaty simply because it has 
strong bipartisan support. But neither should we withhold our support 
for a treaty simply because it was negotiated and signed by a President 
from a different political party.

The fact is that the New START treaty is a modest arms control 
agreement. The treaty does not require the destruction of a single 
nuclear weapon. Under the New START framework, a 30-percent reduction 
in the number of deployed warheads in the arsenals of the United States 
and Russia will be required.

As such, the New START treaty places the United States and the 
Russian Federation on a path to achieve mutual and verifiable 
reductions over the next 7 years. Failure to ratify a treaty that makes 
modest reductions in the deployment of nuclear weapons would represent 
a giant step backwards in the commitment of the United States to arms 
control. If we cannot reduce the deployed nuclear stockpiles of the two 
countries that hold 9 of every 10 nuclear weapons in the world, how can 
we expect other countries not to seek any nuclear weapons?

Yet the New START treaty has significance beyond its function as an 
arms control agreement. New START is one component of our bilateral 
relationship with the Russian Federation. In April 2009, I traveled to 
Moscow with the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator Carl 
Levin. At that time, I indicated that while I supported the President's 
commitment to reset the U.S.-Russian relationship, it was ultimately up 
to the Russians to see if they wanted to have a stronger relationship.

Since then, Russia has expanded the use of northern supply routes for 
our military forces in Afghanistan and has cancelled the sale of 
advanced surface to air missiles to Iran. These are positive steps.

During that same trip to Moscow, Chairman Levin and I sought to 
encourage Russian officials to cooperate on missile defense in Europe. 
And this issue of missile defense raises an important point about the 
U.S.-Russian relationship. Just because our relationship with the 
Russians is important does not mean that we must compromise on an issue 
vital to our national security. One of those issues is missile defense.

I was troubled when I read the unilateral statements made by Russian 
leaders who sought to make a binding tie between missile defense and 
the New START agreement.

The Kerry-Lugar resolution of ratification eliminates any doubt that 
the United States will continue to develop missile defense systems. The 
proposed resolution of ratification clarifies that the treaty places no 
limitation on the


deployment of U.S. missile defense systems except for those contained 
in article 5. It further clarifies that the Russian unilateral 
statement regarding missile defense ''does not impose a legal 
obligation on the United States.''

The resolution of ratification goes beyond expressing the position 
that the United States will deploy an effective national missile 
defense system. It declares that the United States is committed to 
improving its strategic defensive capabilities, both quantitatively and 
qualitatively, during the lifetime of the treaty.

In addition to developing a robust missile defense capability, it is 
equally imperative that the United States maintain a modernized nuclear 
weapons program as we consider further reductions in nuclear arms.

In March, I traveled with my good friend from Arizona, Senator Kyl, 
to discuss nuclear modernization with our allies. I learned a great 
deal from an in-depth briefing with French physicists about our need to 
modernize our own nuclear arsenal.

As Secretary of Defense Gates has noted, ''The United States is the 
only declared nuclear power that is neither modernizing its nuclear 
arsenal nor has the capability to produce a new nuclear warhead.'' The 
Perry-Schlesinger Strategic Posture Commission noted that the nuclear 
weapons complex ''physical infrastructure is in serious need of 
transformation.''

In response, the administration has made a commitment to invest $14 
billion in new funding over the next 10 years for the nuclear weapons 
complex. As a result, the safety, stability, and reliability of our 
nuclear deterrent can be improved. The new investments will double the 
surveillance within the nuclear stockpile from fiscal year 2009 to 
fiscal year 2011. Finally, the Administration has proposed nearly $9 
billion for our plutonium and uranium facilities, and it has made a 
commitment to request additional funding necessary for those facilities 
once the designs are completed.

While the New START treaty contributes to reducing the threat of 
nuclear war and strengthens nuclear nonproliferation efforts, it is 
disappointing to me that the treaty reflects an outdated view of one of 
the primary threats to our national security. This treaty does not 
address the significant disparity between the number of nonstrategic 
nuclear weapons in Russia's stockpile compared to our own.

The Perry-Schlesinger Strategic Posture Commission reported that 
Russia had an estimated 3,800 tactical nuclear weapons compared to 
fewer than 500 in our own stockpile. By maintaining a distinction 
between the threats of nuclear attack that warrant the ratification of 
a treaty from those nuclear threats that do not simply based upon the 
distance from which a nuclear weapon is launched or the method by which 
such a weapon is launched, we preserve a Cold War mentality regarding 
the nuclear threats facing our country.

The large numerical disparity in the number of warheads each country 
maintains is not the only reason they warrant a higher priority than 
they were given by either country in this treaty.

As the ranking member of the Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs Committee, I believe that the characteristics of tactical 
nuclear weapons, particularly their vulnerability for theft and 
potential for nuclear terrorism, make reducing their numbers essential 
to our national security.

President Obama correctly described the greatest threat facing our 
Nation in the 2010 Nuclear Posture Review when he said that ''the 
threat of global nuclear war has become remote, but the risk of nuclear 
attack has increased . . . today's most immediate and extreme danger is 
nuclear terrorism.''

Several arms control groups, including the Stimson Center, the Center 
for Nonproliferation Studies, and the Union of Concerned Scientists, 
have each stated that the danger of these weapons rests not only in the 
destructive power of each weapon but also because they are vulnerable 
to theft by rogue nations and terrorist groups.

Earlier this month, I wrote to Secretary Gates and Secretary Clinton 
about my concerns regarding this issue and requested a commitment from 
them to seek reductions in the number of Russian tactical nuclear 
weapons.

I would like to read a portion of their response for those of my 
colleagues who share my concern regarding this disparity:




 The Administration is committed to seeking improved 


 security of, and reductions in, Russian tactical nuclear 


 weapons. We agree with the Senate Foreign Relations 


 Committee's call, in the resolution of advice and consent to 


 ratification of the New START treaty, to pursue an agreement 


 with the Russians to address them. These negotiations offer 


 our best chance to constrain Russian tactical nuclear 


 weapons, but we believe Russia will be unlikely to begin such 


 negotiations if the New START treaty does not enter into 


 force.


The letter further states that:




 With regard to future agreements, we strongly agree with 


 you that the characteristics of tactical nuclear weapons--


 particularly their vulnerability to theft, misuse, or 


 acquisition by terrorists--make reducing their numbers and 


 enhancing their safety and security extremely important.


I ask unanimous consent that my letter to the Secretaries and their 
response be printed in the Record at the end of my statement.

So where does that leave us? Does the New START treaty lead to mutual 
and verifiable reductions in nuclear arms? Does the New START treaty 
renew our Nation's commitment to arms control? Given the commitments by 
the administration, will it reinvigorate our nuclear nonproliferation 
efforts?

The answers to these questions were most succinctly addressed in a 
statement by the leader who negotiated and signed the first START 
treaty, former President George H.W. Bush. I will conclude by 
associating myself with his comments on the issue, which I will read in 
full: ''I urge the United States Senate to ratify the [New] START 
treaty.''