# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `db058c4e5a4c8de9fa18380dcaaee802`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 20 September 2010`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Sherlock Holmes said what is left on the table, when you 
rule everything out, is the answer. It makes no sense to me for us to 
bring the Defense authorization bill to the floor of the Senate at any 
time where the Senator from Arizona and I cannot offer an amendment 
about how we try a terrorist. Should Khalid Sheikh Mohammed be given a 
Federal court right? Should he be put in New York City or any other 
Federal court and tried as a normal criminal, or should he be tried in 
a military court as an enemy combatant?

These are big issues. Under the construct created--and the reason I 
will vote no when I would normally vote yes--I cannot offer amendments. 
We are going to be voting on the DREAM Act. The DREAM Act is a hot 
topic in the immigration world but not very hot among our troops.

I have been to Afghanistan and Iraq numerous times. I haven't had one 
soldier or airman or sailor or marine or Coast Guard member ask me 
about the DREAM Act. They want to know are they going to get paid more 
and do they have the tools to win the war. This is politics at its 
worst, may I say.

As a Republican, I stand here knowing our party has probably abused 
power in the past but not like this. This, to me, is going to a new 
level. We are in two wars. Iran is on the verge of making a 
breakthrough on the nuclear weapons front. We have a Defense bill where 
we can't amend it to talk about the war on terror or about legal 
changes--stop reading terrorists their Miranda rights. We will be 
voting on the DREAM Act which is checking a block. We will be voting on 
don't ask, don't tell in a way in which I think is offensive to the men 
and women who serve.


The Senator was promised last year, as the ranking member, when he 
asked the question, that our men and women would give us input before 
the administration would move to change don't ask, don't tell. That has 
all been turned upside down. The law is now that it will be repealed 
and we ask later.

This idea about secret holds in the Senate, that is probably an 
internal matter that needs to be resolved but not on Defense 
authorization. The answer is, this is politics.