---
---

# None
## `db05478e73c22cb601eadf4904151683`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 3 January 2008`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
late Congresswoman Julia Carson who passed away on December 15, 2007. A 
woman of great passion and dedication, she will be remembered as a 
tireless advocate of the poor and working families.

Congresswoman Carson was the first and only African-American and 
woman in Indiana's congressional delegation. An exceptionally 
courageous and strong woman, she looked a childhood of poverty and 
segregation in the eye and rose above it to represent Indiana for over 
35 years, first as an Indiana State representative and then as State 
senator before being elected to the United States Congress in 1996.

Julia was able to use her life experiences to help others also 
overcome poverty, discrimination and illness. I had the honor of being 
part of the Congresswoman's initiative to raise awareness of 
hypertension and stroke. I will always remember her unrelenting 
advocacy of women's rights, children's health, affordable housing, and 
equality. She stood up for unpopular, but critical issues including 
expanding SCHIP in the late 1990s and, most recently, voting against 
the war in Iraq. It is thus not surprising that Ms. Carson was the only 
person to ever be named Woman of the Year by the Indianapolis Star on 
two different occasions.

My strongest memory, however, is how Congresswoman Carson was a 
special and warm-hearted woman. She was one of the first to go out of 
her way to introduce herself to me when I first arrived at Congress in 
2001. With our birthdays just a few days apart in July, she always took 
time to greet me with a special tenderness. Her determination on policy 
issues was matched by a stylish flair and humor that consistently 
brought a smile to the faces of all in the room.

On behalf of the families of Minnesota's Fourth Congressional 
District, we extend our prayers and sincerest condolences to her 
children and all of the family and friends of Representative Carson. We 
lost a very dear sister this week. She will be remembered in the 
highest regard, and deeply missed by her colleagues at Congress and her 
constituents in Indiana.

Madam Speaker, please join me in paying special tribute to the life 
and service of Congresswoman Julia Carson.
