---
---

# None
## `db08c0f748aaceb425afbc1f1d8ea9c2`
`Mr. BOUSTANY â€” 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. BOUSTANY. I thank the gentleman. We all owe a great debt of 
gratitude to every family who has sacrificed. This is hard, and every 
American should care about this and be engaged in this process.

I continue to say that the men and women who put on the American 
uniform are the finest that humanity has to offer because of those 
sacrifices and what they do. Oftentimes, whether it is Iraq or 
Afghanistan or some other tough spot, the only American that people in 
these countries actually get to see are our American men and women in 
uniform, and they are oftentimes our finest ambassadors. And so we owe 
them a whole lot, a great debt of gratitude for what they have done, 
and we should never forget and always stand up.

I would urge folks, whenever they see someone in uniform, shake their 
hand and thank them for the service they have provided, and thank their 
families for the difficulties they have had to go through.

You know, Ambassador Crocker said today, I am going to quote one more 
time here, ''Last September, I said that the cumulative trajectory of 
political, economic and diplomatic developments in Iraq was upwards, 
although the slope of that line was not steep. Developments over there, 
the last 7 months, have strengthened my sense of a positive trend. 
Immense challenges remain and progress is uneven and often 
frustratingly slow, but there is progress. Sustaining that progress 
will require continuing U.S. resolve and commitment. What has been 
achieved is substantial, and it is also reversible.''

That really summarizes where we are today and how important it is 
that we have the resolve to see this through because the consequences 
of failure are immense. I mentioned that earlier.

Osama bin Laden himself has made statements about the importance of 
Iraq to these terrorist activities. I have a quote here. This is Osama 
bin Laden: ''A war is underway. The epicenter of these wars is Baghdad, 
the seat of the caliphate.'' The caliphate is what they hope to 
achieve, an empire, an Islamist, radical empire. ''Success in Baghdad 
will be success for the U.S.''

They don't want us to succeed in Baghdad. They want to drive us out.

Let me pull up the next chart.

I want to read this last one. This is in a letter from Ayman al-
Zawahiri, the number two of al Qaeda, to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, who 
headed up the al Qaeda effort in Iraq before we were able to eliminate 
him: ''Al Qaeda's stated Iraq strategy consists of three steps: Expel 
the Americans from Iraq; establish an Islamic authority; and extend the 
jihad wave to the secular countries neighboring Iraq.''



That's important because the countries neighboring Iraq or Turkey, 
Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Kuwait, and their goal is to overthrow these 
countries. That's their stated goal over and over in their 
communications, and that's why it's critical that we have success in 
Iraq because, again, we won't have peace throughout the Middle East. 
It'll have dire repercussions with regard to Lebanon.

I didn't mention Iran, which also borders Iraq, and it's a fluid 
border. And the Iranians are definitely causing mischief, dangerous 
mischief in Iraq and around the region. That's what's at stake here, 
and that's why we must be successful in Iraq.

With that, I want to conclude. I want to thank my colleagues for 
participating in this. I can't help but think of a Gold Star mother 
back home, Yvette Burridge, who's a friend of mine who's son went to 
high school with my son in Lafayette, Louisiana, Marine, Private First 
Class, David Paul Burridge who was killed in action on September 6, 
2004 at 19 years of age. And every time I see Yvette Burridge, she has 
pride in her eyes. She's proud of what her son did. She's proud that he 
gave his life for his country.

And we all have stories like that that we should commemorate, those 
who have given their lives and who have been wounded in this effort. 
But we should never forget this effort. It's critically important to 
success in American foreign policy and American national security.
