---
---

# MENTAL HEALTH MONTH
## `db090dcfa83baa2d71176938f9b43b6c`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 13 May 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H. Res. 1134, supporting the goals and ideals of Mental Health 
Month. I would first like to thank my distinguished colleague, 
Representative Grace Napolitano of California, for introducing this 
important legislation. This legislation designates the month of May to 
raise awareness about mental health conditions and the importance of 
mental wellness for all. The mental health and well-being of Americans 
is a critical issue that affects not only the quality of life, but also 
the health of our communities and our economic stability.

Since the turn of this century, thanks in large measure to research-
based public health innovations, the lifespan of the average American 
has nearly doubled. Today, our Nation's physical health has never been 
better. Moreover, illnesses of the body once shrouded in fear--such as 
cancer, epilepsy, and HIV/AIDS to name a few--increasingly are seen as 
treatable, survivable, even curable ailments. Yet, despite 
unprecedented knowledge gained in just the past three decades about the 
brain and human behavior, mental health is often an afterthought and 
illnesses of the mind remain shrouded in fear and misunderstanding.

Much remains to be learned about the causes, treatment, and 
prevention of mental and behavioral disorders. Obstacles that may limit 
the availability or accessibility of mental health services for some 
Americans are being dismantled, but disparities persist. Still, thanks 
to research and the experiences of millions of individuals who have a 
mental disorder, their family members, and other advocates, the Nation 
has the power today to tear down the most formidable obstacle to future 
progress in the arena of mental illness and health. That obstacle is 
stigma. Stigmatization of mental illness is an excuse for inaction and 
discrimination that is inexcusably outmoded in 1999.

The burden of mental illness on health and productivity in the United 
States and throughout the world has long been profoundly 
underestimated. Data developed by the massive Global Burden of Disease 
study, conducted by the World Health Organization, the World Bank, and 
Harvard University, reveal that mental illness, including suicide, 
ranks second in the burden of disease in established market economies, 
such as the United States. Mental illness emerged from the Global 
Burden of Disease study as a surprisingly significant contributor to 
the burden of disease.

Mental illness is the term that refers collectively to all 
diagnosable mental disorders. Mental disorders are health conditions 
that are characterized by alterations in thinking, mood, or behavior--
or some combination thereof--associated with distress and/or impaired 
functioning. Alzheimer's disease exemplifies a mental disorder largely 
marked by alterations in thinking, especially forgetting. Depression 
exemplifies a mental disorder largely marked by alterations in mood. 
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder exemplifies a mental disorder 
largely marked by alterations in behavior, over activity, and/or 
thinking, inability to concentrate. Alterations in thinking, mood, or 
behavior contribute to a host of problems--patient distress, impaired 
functioning, or heightened risk of death, pain, disability, or loss of 
freedom.


Suicide is a major, preventable public health problem. In 2004, it 
was the eleventh leading cause of death in the U.S., accounting for 
32,439 deaths. The overall rate was 10.9 suicide deaths per 100,000 
people. An estimated eight to 25 attempted suicides occur per every 
suicide death. Suicidal behavior is complex. Some risk factors vary 
with age, gender, or ethnic group and may occur in combination or 
change over time. Older Americans are disproportionately likely to die 
by suicide. Of every 100,000 people ages 65 and older, 14.3 died by 
suicide in 2004. This figure is higher than the national average of 
10.9 suicides per 100,000 people in the general population. Non-
Hispanic white men age 85 or older had an even higher rate, with 17.8 
suicide deaths per 100,000.

Depression and post-traumatic stress disorder are very high among 
veterans from wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, leading to suicide rates 
even higher than combat deaths. Since October 2001 in Iraq and 
Afghanistan wars fought about 1.6 million U.S. soldiers, about 4500 of 
them died, according to Defense Department. The Rand study has found 
that 20 percent of returning U.S. soldiers suffer from post-traumatic 
stress disorder or depression, but only half of them get treatment. 
Comparing these figures it becomes clear that troops suffer from post-
traumatic stress disorder complications more than from actual war. 
Soldiers with combat traumas are more likely to suffer from post-
traumatic stress disorder. Of these troops 53 percent have received 
mental care during the last few years, but Rand report says that half 
of them did not receive adequate care. This is one of leading causes 
leading to depression development in veterans. There are currently 
300,000 soldiers suffering from mental illnesses and they need new 
innovative treatment for depression or PTSD treatment.

Mr. Speaker, I support the goals and ideals of Mental Health Month in 
order to emphasize scientific facts and findings regarding mental 
health and to remove the stigma associated. I recognize that mental 
well-being is equally as important as physical well-being for our 
citizens, our communities, our businesses, our economy, and our Nation. 
I encourage all organizations and health practitioners to use Mental 
Health Month as an opportunity to promote mental well-being and 
awareness, ensure access to appropriate services, and support overall 
quality of life for those with mental illness.