# None
## `db1349c854016133e1ba3564d1948b8b`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, if there are no others speaking on this 
Defense authorization bill, I would like to address my remarks to the 
Senator from Massachusetts, who is still on the floor and who spoke to 
us on the SCHIP proposal for the Children's Health Insurance Program, 
which has been in place for 10 years and works for so many children so 
effectively.

I might correct the Senator's presentation in one regard. I just left 
a meeting of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. The request of 
this administration for the next year for the war in Iraq is $189 
billion--$189 billion. That comes out to about $15 billion a month that 
they are asking for this war for the next year. It is my understanding 
that this bill we are going to present to the President to provide 
health insurance for somewhere in the range of an additional 5 million 
kids is going to cost us $6 billion or $7 billion a year. So the war in 
Iraq is costing us $15 billion a month; this program, which the 
President says we can't afford, to provide health insurance for our own 
children, will cost us about $7 billion a year--a year.

It would seem to me that a strong America begins at home. It begins 
with our families, our kids, with our neighborhoods and communities, 
and I think the President has overlooked that. If we are going to be 
strong for the future, we have to help our kids have the kind of health 
insurance coverage that gives them a fighting chance. So I thank the 
Senator.