---
---

# IRAQ
## `db1b16f5df9f2777e93f79465303e5e9`
`Mr. CORNYN — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I wish to point out some of the bitter 
ironies of this debate.

Since roughly January, when the new majority took charge of this 
Congress, there have been numerous proposals with regard to how we 
should conduct ourselves in Iraq. I have tried to keep track of the 
various resolutions that have been proposed and, as my colleagues can 
see, there have been, according to my count, at least 17 resolutions. 
They start with the Biden and Levin resolutions, the Reid-Pelosi 
resolution, the Murtha resolution, the Biden-Levin resolution, the 
Conrad funding cut resolution, a waiver plan, a timeline plan, the 
Feingold resolution, the Obama resolution, the Clinton resolution, the 
Dodd resolution, the Kennedy resolution, the Feinstein resolution, the 
Byrd resolution, the Kerry resolution, and then the latest, the Reid 
resolution we are on today.

Under this current iteration before the Senate, it says: The 
President shall commence the phased redeployment of U.S. forces from 
Iraq not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
joint resolution, with the goal of redeploying by March 31, 2008, all 
U.S. combat forces from Iraq, except for a limited number that are 
essential for the following purposes: protecting U.S. and coalition 
personnel and infrastructures, training and equipping Iraqi forces, and 
conducting targeted counterterrorism operations.

The reason I find this list of resolutions--and now with the 
culmination on March 15--somewhat ironic is we are beginning to see 
some of the signs of success of the new plan, the Baghdad security plan 
proposed by Prime Minister Maliki, with the support of the United 
States.

For example, in the Associated Press yesterday, Robert Reid wrote 
that bomb deaths have gone down 30 percent in Baghdad since the 
security crackdown that began a month ago and that execution-style 
slayings have been cut nearly in half.

I ask unanimous consent that the entire article be printed in the 
Record following my remarks.