---
---

# H.R. 1415
## `db205cab0fcfdacc4f8bf6c9391b42e5`
`Mr. KUCINICH â€” 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor and remembrance of 
my colleague and dear friend, United States Congresswoman Stephanie 
Tubbs Jones, who left us far too soon.

Stephanie's fearless passion for social justice, unyielding 
commitment to improving the lives of her most vulnerable constituents, 
and limitless love for her family and friends, will forever resound 
throughout our Cleveland community and across our nation. Her 
professional achievements were many--her success as a county 
prosecutor, municipal judge, trial court judge and Congresswoman are 
well known, but it was her strength of character in the face of 
personal hardship, her dedication to and ability in helping others and 
her luminous zest for life that ran through everything she did. It is 
these attributes, framed by her hearty laugh and generous heart--that 
will forever be remembered.

Stephanie's life touched and inspired countless lives, young and old, 
and her energy and positivity knew no bounds--reaching from the block 
clubs of Cleveland, to the halls of Congress, across the country and 
around the world. Wherever she went, people were drawn to her quick 
smile, sharp intellect, easy going nature and passion for making the 
world a better place. The child of devoted, working class parents, 
Stephanie blazed a trail of possibility and hope for women everywhere, 
especially for African American women, when she made history upon being 
elected as the first African American woman from Ohio elected to 
Congress. Stephanie was not afraid to stand up against the tide--she 
was one of the Representatives to vote ''no'' to authorizing the use of 
force in Iraq--an action she believed to be a grave affront to the 
honor of United States veterans and the honorable service of our United 
States military women and men.

Stephanie's sage advice and ability to get to the heart of the matter 
was coveted by her family and wide circle of friends. Her warmth, 
friendship and loyalty inspired and strengthened the lives of many, 
including my own. People from all walks of life--from United States 
Senators to the cashier around the corner--called Stephanie ''friend'' 
and ''sister.''

Stephanie's most cherished roles were as wife and mother. Her 
unwavering devotion to her family was evidenced her entire life. 
Together, Stephanie and her late husband, Mervyn Jones Sr., raised 
their son, Mervyn, Jr., who was heart, soul and center of Stephanie's 
life.

Mr. Speaker and colleagues, please join me in honor and remembrance 
of my dear friend and confidant, Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones. 
Our shared experiences--from our Cleveland childhood to standing 
together in the House of Representatives--was the foundation for a 
friendship that grew and strengthened over the past thirty years.

Her passing is a profound loss for all of us, and especially for her 
beloved son, Mervyn, yet her fiery spirit, love for her family and 
friends, and commitment to serving the most fragile of our society will 
be forever reflected in those who loved and knew her well--in 
Cleveland, Washington, and far beyond. The indomitable spirit, love for 
life and passion for social justice that defined my friend, Stephanie 
Tubbs Jones, will live on forever, through every friendship she ever 
forged and within everyone whose life was improved, inspired and lifted 
because of her, and she will be remembered always.



