---
---

# JOBS, ENERGY, FAMILIES, AND DISASTER RELIEF ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `db21e3a127ce1fea32fce6a8fc63c9a7`
`Mr. COBURN â€” 28 July 2008`

---


Mr. COBURN. I wish to finish my statement first. But I will play fair 
and yield to the Senator when I am finished. So I will be here.

A large amount of resources is associated with the registry. We have 
registries, but they are not comprehensive. I identify with the 
families and the people who have ALS. I have had patients and some in 
my family who have had it. The hope is we would find a cure or a 
treatment to slow the progress of it. If we spend $75 million on a 
registry, which the CDC and NIH both say we don't need, that is $75 
million we are not going to spend on research.

One of the things that didn't come up in the debate today is let's 
take this $10 billion and get rid of $10 billion worth of waste, and 
increase NIH from $29 billion to $39 billion a year. It would make a 
big difference in lots of diseases.

Let me talk about the Christopher and Dana Reeve bill. To want to 
help people who have suddenly become, or were for a long period of 
time, a paraplegic or a quadriplegic is a noble cause. According to HHS 
and CBO, the only thing this bill will do that is not already being 
done--the only thing it will do--is allow us to name some buildings and 
facilities after Christopher and Dana Reeve. I am not against 
additional research in those areas. But if we are going to do it, we 
ought to get rid of wasteful spending somewhere else. It is the same 
with ALS. If we are going to spend an additional $75 million, let's 
take it from some of the waste. I understand the difference in 
agreement I have with my colleague from Illinois in terms of 
authorization versus appropriations. But it is that very difference in 
agreement that got this country $10 trillion in debt, that helps 
account for the fact we are going to have the highest deficit in our 
history this year.

Common sense has to come back to Congress. We cannot keep authorizing 
bills and turn a blind eye to deauthorizing things that aren't working. 
We use a quaint little argument that it doesn't spend any money. No, it 
doesn't, until you appropriate it; but if you appropriate it for a new 
bill and you are still appropriating for the old--which we do--all you 
have done is grown the size of the Federal Government and made it less 
efficient and more imprudent.

I believe there is a case to be made that we ought to operate the 
Government finances the way families operate theirs. We ought to have 
to make hard choices. I know from the 109th Congress that this body 
doesn't like to do oversight. It doesn't like it. We don't like to do 
the job of making sure the money is spent well, that it has metrics on 
it. By the way, neither of these two bills has any metrics on it to


measure whether they are successful or accomplish anything. There is no 
way for us to know that we have made an actual improvement for the 
people under these two disease categories.

I think it is fair game for us to talk truthfully and very clearly 
about what the differences are, in terms of what the Senator from 
Illinois said. It is not about not wanting to help people; it is about 
wanting to help more people. Do you know what. We can do more research 
on ALS and more to help paraplegic and quadriplegic people, and more to 
help our kids and grandkids. The way we can do that is being very wise 
and frugal with the money that comes to Washington. Quite frankly, we 
are not doing that. So the debate isn't about setting up somebody who 
is injured and should have our care and attention. The debate isn't 
that somebody doesn't care or does care. The debate is how best to 
solve the problem: the status quo in Washington that doesn't solve the 
problem, continuing to do what we have always done--authorizing new 
spending and never getting rid of the old, never looking at it or 
fixing it.


I also put forward one other argument: If authorizations don't matter 
in terms of spending, then there should be no objections to my offering 
a deauthorization to other programs that don't matter. If 
authorizations don't matter, then if I deauthorize something else, that 
won't matter either.

So we have this wonderfully circular argument that says spending is 
only spending when we spend it, but if you want to decrease spending in 
an authorization bill by offsetting other authorizations, that is 
spending and you are cutting. You cannot have it both ways. It is about 
how do we live within our means? How do we, in fact, guarantee these 
great opportunities--and we still haven't spotted all the problems in 
front of us as a nation--how do we guarantee that they go on to the 
next couple of generations?

This isn't about paralyzed people or ALS; it is about changing the 
culture of the Senate and the Congress to start meeting the 
expectations of the American people. The expectations are that we will 
start thinking long term and start thinking about their kids. We need 
to get rid of the waste and be much more efficient in the programs we 
have. To do less than that is dishonest with those very people who we 
say we care about in this bill.

This bill is a $5 million museum in Poland. How many people in 
America think today, with a $600 billion deficit, and them struggling 
to buy gasoline and food, and milk at $4 a gallon--the same price as 
gas--that we ought to spend $5 million across the seas? I agree there 
is a good argument about our foreign policy in terms of our involvement 
with Iraq. That is fair game--building museums, forgiving debt, sending 
another $24 million to the U.N., which won't tell us a penny of 
anything they spent, or where they spend it, because we cannot see it, 
and we are already spending $5.6 billion there a year.

This is a real debate. I hope the debate stays at the level that 
doesn't accuse anybody of not supporting what is in the best interests 
of every American. The question is, how do we do that? What we have 
heard on the floor today is that if you voted against this bill, you 
don't care about women with depression. I have delivered 4,000 babies. 
I have treated postpartum depression. The flippant way we talk about 
that--this is a serious disease that is being treated. There are 
multiple programs out there.

I will also make a final point, and then I will yield to my friend 
from Illinois. Under the Health, Education, Labor, Pension parts in 
this bill, on only two out of six bills I had a hold on. There was the 
Melanie Blocker Stokes MOTHERS Act. I didn't have a hold. It has never 
been offered. The Vision Care For Kids Act; I didn't have a hold on 
that. It has never been offered. On prenatal and postnatally diagnosed 
conditions, I am a sponsor of that. The Stroke Treatment and Ongoing 
Prevention Act, I never held that bill, not once. Under the judiciary 
bills, the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment Crime Reduction Act, I never 
held it. The Drug Endangered Kids Act, I never held it. The Effective 
Child Pornography Prosecution Act, I never held it. Enhancing Effective 
Prosecution of Child Pornography Act, I never held it, not once. 
National Sea Grant College Program Amendments I never held. Federal 
Ocean Acidification Research and Monitoring Act, I never held it.

So what is it about wanting to work to meet the needs of everybody 
having input? The question is, can we do things better or do we have to 
keep doing them the old way? Does it have to be that if you read the 
bill and if you have concerns, do you let them go and say it doesn't 
matter? That is how we got into the energy crisis we are in, and the 
housing crisis.

I don't believe we can let things go anymore. We have to look at 
them, and if we think they ought to be fixed, we ought to have the 
courage to say they ought to be fixed or paid for.

With that, I yield to the Senator from Illinois.