# None
## `db220afd3e42db3fc8e32bc03f076f05`
`Mr. LEWIS of California â€” 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the courtesy of my 
colleague dealing with this time and circumstance. I do not intend to 
take a lot of time.

But it is important for all those listening, and who were concerned 
about this issue, to know that we take this matter very, very 
seriously, and our motion is a serious one. It is my view that a 
''yes'' vote for this bill is a bill that will undermine the potential 
effectiveness of our troops for the remainder of the time that they 
remain in Iraq, and that a ''no'' vote is the only way, the only way to 
express support for our troops' efforts and guarantee, in many ways, 
the opportunity for success. This legislation ought to focus on those 
troops.

As I said earlier, it ought to focus on providing those in harm's way 
with the resources they need to complete their mission successfully. 
Further, it ought to respect, not micromanage, our combatant commanders 
who have the responsibility for carrying forward this war successfully.

It's no secret that many Members of the House, both Republicans and 
Democrats, have strong reservations about the manner in which this 
legislation undermines the authority of the President and the Commander 
in Chief. It is not acceptable that we find ourselves suddenly 
presuming that we can afford to have 435 Commanders in Chief by way of 
this House.

It breaks, in my judgment, some of the fundamental traditions of the 
Appropriations Committee, which calls for an open process whereby we 
can deal with each other in as close as a nonpartisan way as possible. 
Indeed, a ''no'' vote on this legislation expresses strongly our 
concern for allowing our troops to do their work, to do it effectively, 
and to get home as soon as possible as we continue to be the voice, the 
significant voice for freedom remaining in this world.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.