# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `db3a7e75d6c5434b613c4c5db695bfcc`
`Mr. CONYERS â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the conference 
report on H.R. 1591, the Supporting Our Troops and Veterans' Health 
Care Act.

This legislation will support our troops and veterans, hold the Bush 
Administration and Iraqi government accountable and begin withdrawing 
our troops from Iraq by October 2007 or sooner. It will also provide 
emergency funding for critical programs that have suffered from years 
of neglect.

This supplemental appropriations bill provides emergency funding for 
critical programs that have long been underfunded by the Republicans. 
It includes $650 million to correct the funding shortfall in the State 
Children's Health Insurance program so that hundreds of thousands of 
children will not lose their health care. It provides $6.9 billion for 
Gulf Coast hurricane relief and recovery. The bill also adds $400 
million to LIHEAP (Low Income Heating Assistance), as well as providing 
$1.8 billion to remedy the unconscionable state of our military and 
veterans' health care systems. All of these issues are emergencies in 
their own right and rise to the level of inclusion in this emergency 
supplemental spending bill.

The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability 
Act requires the Iraqi government to meet the security, political and 
economic benchmarks established by the President in his address of 
January 10th, including improvements in the performance of the Iraqi 
security forces, a greater commitment by the Iraqi government to 
national reconciliation, and reductions in the levels of sectarian 
violence in Iraq.

In the bill, the President must determine that substantial progress 
is being made on security, political, and reconstruction benchmarks by 
July 2007. If the President cannot certify progress, redeployment must 
start by July with a goal of being completed within 180 days. If the 
President can certify progress by July 2007, redeployment must begin by 
October 1, with goal of completion within 180 days.

The bill ensures that our troops have the tools and resources they 
need to do the job they have been asked to do. It prohibits the 
deployment of troops who are not full trained, equipped and protected 
according to current Department of Defense standards. The President can 
only deploy unprepared troops if he certifies, in writing, to Congress, 
that deploying those troops is in the national interest. He must make 
similar certifications to lengthen troop deployments beyond DoD 
standards or to send troops back into battle who have not had enough 
time between deployments. The bill also provides funding so the 
Veterans Administration can meet the obligations of a new


generation of veterans, particularly by ensuring that they will have 
the medical care they need.

I have been an outspoken opponent of military action against Iraq 
since the day the administration started beating the war drums. My 
preference would have been to vote for a stronger bill with a binding 
date certain for ending the war. I would have preferred not to include 
waivers to allow the President to send less than fully equipped and 
rested troops into battle. I have additional concerns about the section 
of the bill that allows an unspecified number of U.S. troops to remain 
in Iraq after the March 2008 deadline to train Iraqis and fight 
terrorism.

However, I support this legislation in spite of these deficiencies 
because I believe it is an affirmative step towards our ultimate goal 
of ending the war. This bill is not everything that I would have liked, 
but it represents a critical turning point. No longer will this body 
uncritically hand over billions of dollars for the President to wage an 
endless war. Congress has a Constitutional responsibility to provide 
accountability--a responsibility that was shirked for the first 6 years 
of the Bush presidency while Republicans controlled Congress. Today, we 
have followed through on that critical duty. We will send a bill to the 
President that would definitively change our course in Iraq. Mr. Bush 
should make the right decision and support our plan for change that is 
overwhelmingly endorsed by the American people. If he follows through 
on his veto threat, he will be the one who has failed to provide our 
troops and our veterans with the resources they need. He will be the 
one who has rejected his own benchmarks to measure success in Iraq. He 
will be the one responsible for the ongoing loss of American life in 
Iraq.

The President and most Congressional Republicans ask that we continue 
to fund this war with ''no strings attached.'' But the United States 
cannot afford an open-ended commitment to a war without end. It is the 
responsibility of this Congress to devise a means to end the U.S. 
combat role in Iraq so that we can reclaim our position of leadership 
in the world and direct our resources back towards urgent needs here at 
home. I believe that this bill moves us towards these goals in an 
effective and responsible way.