---
---

# COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007
## `db43918c2c5980b997a0d84794e79cac`
`Mrs. CLINTON — 17 July 2007`

---


Mrs. CLINTON. Mr. President, I am delighted to come to the floor and 
talk about this extremely important legislation. I thank our leader, a 
great advocate on behalf of education, the chairman of the Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, Senator Kennedy.

This bill represents a tremendous victory for students, for their 
families, for higher education, for the future of the American economy, 
for millions of families who still struggle to pay for college and for 
millions of young people who will not only carry from their education a 
degree, but, on average, more student debt than any graduates who came 
before them.

Most of all, this bill is a victory for that young boy or girl who is 
thriving in school, who might one day wish to attend college and 
fulfill his or her God-given potential but worries that such a wish is 
beyond his or her reach; that it is too expensive to realize.

I commend the members of the committee on both sides of the aisle for 
the great work that has been done bringing this bill to the floor. I 
was thrilled with many of the provisions, some of which I have worked 
on ever since I came to the Senate, particularly focusing on 
nontraditional students who more and more are becoming the norm--older 
students, married students, single-parent students--who often have 
found there were barriers to their accessing whatever help was 
available from the Federal Government programs to continue their 
education.

I am also personally thrilled at what we have done for homeless and 
foster youth. This has been a passion of mine, going back to my years 
as a law student, when I first started representing


abused and neglected children, children who ended up in the foster care 
system, all the way through my time in the White House, where we were 
instrumental in working with the Congress in passing landmark 
legislation to make adoption easier, to try to make the foster care 
system more responsive to the needs of the child and to accelerate 
decisions being made as to whether a child would ever realistically be 
able to return to his or her biological family; to my years in the 
Senate, where we have continued to try to help students who are in the 
foster care system as they age out.


As Senator Murray pointed out, when you turn 18 or graduate from high 
school, whichever comes first, still in many States in our country, you 
are no longer eligible for the foster care system. What that has meant 
is that a social worker usually shows up at the foster home with a big 
black garbage bag and tells the young man or woman to put his or her 
belongings into that bag because they are no longer able to live in a 
foster home with State support. Many young people whom I have been 
privileged to know, some of whom have interned for me, worked for me in 
my office here or in my office in the White House, they were the lucky 
ones. They had the right combination of personal resilience and ability 
combined with mentoring and some breaks along the way that enabled them 
to complete high school and often go to college at great cost.

Many of them had nowhere to go during summer vacations or 
Thanksgiving or Christmas or any other break in the academic schedule. 
Some of them hid themselves in the dorm. Some of them stayed in bus 
stations or airports. Some of them prevailed upon a friendly professor 
or fellow student to take them in.

By recognizing the special needs of these special students, we do a 
very important piece of legislative business that has a big heart in 
it. I thank my colleagues who worked with me and others to make this 
happen.

When we think about the importance of college, it is hard to grasp 
the fact that most young people in our country will not go to college 
and graduate. The college-going rate has been pretty stagnant now for 
about 20 or 30 years. As the cost of higher education has gone up, it 
has become even more difficult for young people to work their way 
through, to afford the increases in tuition and room and board. But the 
investment in college still remains a very good one.

Each additional year of education after high school increases an 
individual's income by 5 percent to 15 percent. A college degree will 
enable an individual to earn close to $1 million more in the course of 
a life's work than those who have only a high school diploma.

It is no coincidence that the rise of the American middle class 
coincided with the explosion of college attendance. It unlocks economic 
potential, and it gives students access to the American dream--to a 
career and a life that they, then, can build.

But as I say, unfortunately in the past 25 years, the cost of college 
has risen faster than inflation. College costs have tripled over the 
past 20 years and, as the costs spiral upward, so has the size of the 
loans and the loan payments that are necessary. Students who borrow, 
take out loans averaging $15,500 while attending public colleges and 
universities and almost $20,000 while attending private schools, twice 
what they would have borrowed 10 years ago.

At New York University in Manhattan, 60 percent of students graduate 
owing an average of $27,639. At Idaho State University, 69 percent of 
students graduate owing an average of $29,467. At the University of 
Miami in Florida, whose president served with such distinction in this 
town as the Secretary of Health and Human Services for 8 years, 58 
percent of the students graduate owing an average of $31,723.

This debt limits students' options and damages their financial 
futures. It is a chain around their ankles as they end their education 
and go out into the world of work.

With this reconciliation bill, we are cutting that chain. This bill 
will provide $17.3 billion in student aid, the largest increase in 
student aid in more than a decade.

It will provide this aid without raising Federal taxes one dime. 
First, the higher education reconciliation bill increases the 
purchasing power of the Pell grants which help the lowest income 
students offset the cost of college. It is no secret to anyone in this 
Chamber that the purchasing power of the Pell grants has declined 
dramatically, from nearly 60 percent of the cost of a public school 20 
years ago, to only 36 percent today.

This legislation provides the largest Pell grant increases in more 
than a decade, increasing maximum Pell grants to $5,100 immediately, 
and to $5,400 by 2011.

Now, take my State, for example. This initial boost will provide over 
$200 million in increased grant aid to New York students for the 2007-
2008 school year alone, and $1.7 billion by 2013. The legislation also 
raises the income cutoff for Pell grants from $20,000 to $30,000, 
making many more students from many more families eligible to receive 
Pell grants.

Second, I am very pleased that the Higher Education Reconciliation 
Act tackles an issue addressed in legislation I sponsored in the last 
Congress called the Student Borrowers Bill of Rights. It provides 
protection for student borrowers while they repay their loans. It does 
so by capping monthly loan payments at 15 percent of the borrower's 
discretionary income and provides several important protections to 
members of the Armed Forces and public service employees during 
repayment.

This is critical to helping students manage their debt, essentially 
in the first few years after they graduate. Third, I am pleased the 
reconciliation bill also creates a new loan forgiveness plan through 
the direct loan program for public service employees. I hear from many 
students in New York and around the country who would love to be 
teachers or police officers or firefighters or nurses or social workers 
or public defenders, but sadly they are so saddled with debt, that such 
careers in the public arena seem like an impossibility for them. That 
is the wrong policy.

We want to encourage more young people to go into public service. Our 
policies should respect that choice, not denigrate it. Under the loan 
forgiveness program, the remaining loan balance on a loan is forgiven 
for a borrower who has been employed in a public sector job and making 
payments on the loan for 10 years. These jobs are essential to the 
communities they serve.

I believe this program will encourage public service and provide an 
incentive for borrowers to pursue low-paying, perhaps, but vital 
professions to our country. When I was getting ready to go to college 
many years ago, my father, who was a small businessman, a very small 
business, said he had saved enough money for me to go to college, and 
he said, I will pay tuition, room and board, but if I wanted to buy a 
book, I had to earn the money. That was fine because I worked ever 
since I was 13 in the summer and during vacations. So I worked my way 
through college with my family's help. And when I graduated I decided I 
wanted to go to law school. I told my father that. He said: That is not 
part of the bargain. If you want to go to law school, you have to pay 
for it yourself.

So I got a little scholarship, and I continued to work year-round, 
and I borrowed money directly from the Federal Government, the National 
Defense Education Act, something which many of us in this Chamber took 
advantage of when we were pursuing our education.

The interest rate was very low. The repayment schedule was something 
I could handle. I did not have to worry about anyone raising the rate 
on me or changing the terms. I worked first for the Children's Defense 
Fund as a young lawyer, and then in public service here in Washington, 
working for the Congress, and then teaching law at the University of 
Arkansas and running a legal aid clinic.

During all of those years when I was doing public service and 
academic work, I could handle what my repayment obligations were. I 
want that available for young people today. I think it is so important, 
especially as we look at what is happening in Government service and 
other public service professions, to see how there is an


aging going on that is going to eventually result in the loss of a lot 
of very experienced people.

You know, I spent Monday at Binghamton University in New York where 
we have the only Ph.D. program in rural nursing. I met at the nursing 
faculty with some of the nursing students. It is a wonderful program. 
But, you know, the average age of a nurse in America is over 45. The 
average age of a nursing faculty member is 54. We have many people who 
want to go to nursing school, and we do not have places for them, even 
though they are qualified. We have a lot of others who worry about how 
they can pay for their education.

You could replicate that across every single profession that really 
falls into the service profession, the caring professions, where we are 
seeing shortages of people because there is a disconnect between the 
salary they are paid and the debt they have to incur in order to get 
the credentials to be able to perform the public service.

So I believe in the long run this increase in student aid will pay 
for itself. Not only do college graduates earn more and are therefore 
able to pay back the society, but they are less likely to draw on 
public resources, and they are much more likely to make a contribution.

This bill has had great bipartisan support. I am very proud to have 
worked on it and to see the positive changes that it includes. Clearly, 
this is something that I hope we will be able to pass by acclimation. I 
hope that after the difficulties and the debate and the disagreement of 
the last week over the very difficult issue of Iraq, I hope we will 
come together around a fundamental American value; namely, education.

We have the best higher education system in the world. It is a system 
filled with second chances for people who decide at the age of 18 or 80 
they want to pursue an education in a community college or a technical 
college or a 4-year college or a university. This is one of the really 
important aspects of American society, and it is instrumental to the 
further development of our economy and the hopes of a return to shared 
prosperity for our people.

I urge all of our colleagues to come together to support this higher 
education reconciliation bill, to make higher education more 
affordable. It is good social policy. It is good economic policy. It is 
certainly good budgetary policy. It makes a big difference to millions 
and millions of hard-working young people and their families.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sanders.) The clerk will call the roll.