---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `db5dfea56f83e8d0b43525d01514c05f`
`Mr. BOND — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I last came to the floor to speak on the 
subject of the way ahead in Iraq. Since that time, significant events, 
both good and bad, have occurred. First and foremost, General Petraeus 
has presented to the Congress a candid and encouraging assessment that 
the new strategy in Iraq has shifted the momentum in our favor. The 
testimony by the general and by Ambassador Crocker reinforced what I 
and my congressional delegation in May saw in Iraq and what I have 
heard directly from troops on the ground. The Petraeus 
counterinsurgency strategy, which is clear an area, move in with local 
forces, hold it, and then help them build their community, enlisting 
the locals in fighting the terrorist and showing them security is 
working--this is the strategy which, last year, I and many of our 
colleagues were asking for. The old strategy without enough people, 
without a permanent presence in the community, was not working. Well, 
it is starting to work now. But General Petraeus has proposed minor 
immediate withdrawals, withdrawals that are based on the commander's 
recommendations and security conditions, not Washington politics or 
micromanaging from this wonderful air-conditioned building.

The President used the term ''return on success.'' That is the term I 
hope we


will embrace. These brave men and women went over there as volunteers 
to accomplish a mission. We need to allow them to work with the 
commanders to accomplish that mission. Even General Petraeus testified 
that the new strategy had reversed the trajectory of the war. He said: 
''Al Qaeda is on the run. Security incidents'' since the surge began 
have fallen in 8 of the last 12 weeks. Civilian deaths have decreased 
by 45 percent. Ethno-sectarian deaths are down 55 percent, and attacks 
in Al Anbar are down 85 percent.


For all the attempts by the antiwar movement to discredit General 
Petraeus--and I will address that--he demonstrated enough military 
progress from his new counterinsurgency strategy to conclude that ''we 
have a realistic chance of achieving our objectives in Iraq.''

Secretary Gates on Monday gave a speech in which he said:




 For America to leave Iraq and the Middle East in chaos 


 would betray and demoralize our allies there and in the 


 region, while emboldening our most dangerous adversaries. To 


 abandon an Iraq where just two years ago 12 million people 


 quite literally risked their lives to vote for a 


 constitutional democracy would be an offense to our interests 


 as well as our values, a setback for the cause of freedom as 


 well as the goal of stability.



 We must realize and recognize that the institutions that 


 underpin an enduring free society can only take root over 


 time.


Secretary Gates was absolutely right. One only needs to look at our 
own history to understand this. After a long, bloody revolution, a 
civil war, a struggle for women's suffrage, and a civil rights 
movement, some 150 years later, democracy is still a work in progress.

Just as Ambassador Crocker testified:




 Iraq is experiencing a revolution, not a regime change.


Difficult challenges remain. Political progress in Iraq has been too 
slow. They have done some things. Actually, they have passed a few 
bills. In this body, we haven't passed an appropriations bill or a 
Defense authorization bill yet. We took August off ourselves. It is 
kind of tough for us to claim that the Iraqi Parliament is not doing 
its job when we can't seem to get our job done.

On the political front in Iraq, the Government is already sharing oil 
revenues among provinces. They are reaching out to former Baathists, 
allowing them to participate in the army and the Government. As I said, 
millions turned out to vote. It will take time for them, just as 
America's revolution did, but the benefits of a stable Iraq as an ally 
to the United States in the most volatile region of the world would be 
a major blow to terrorism, al-Qaida, and Iran's religious extremists.

Let me be clear: Our national security interest for the near and 
intermediate term is preventing chaos, genocide, and a regionwide war. 
That is our interest there, that is why our troops are there, because 
if they left, we could be facing far greater challenges, likely attacks 
on the United States and potentially a regionwide war. Our Intelligence 
Committee has long warned that precipitous withdrawal would create 
chaos and those impacts. If we were to be driven out of Iraq on the 
terms of terrorists and political timelines, terrorists from the Middle 
East to Southeast Asia to Europe to Africa would be emboldened to 
spread their fear, oppression of women, death and destruction, just as 
they were emboldened when we failed to respond appropriately to 
bombings of the USS Cole, Khobar Towers, embassies in Iraq, and the 
1993 attack on the World Trade Center--all instances in which civilians 
and servicemembers were murdered.

Despite General Petraeus's testimony, despite our intelligence 
community warnings, and despite Secretary Gates's recent remarks, some 
war opponents continue to want to cede defeat. They refuse to listen to 
the advice of commanders. They ignore the consequences of a political 
withdrawal and the problems about which the Intelligence Committee 
warned.

I am very concerned about the amendment before us. I urge my 
colleagues to think about it and then vote against it. This is an 
amendment which would micromanage the war. Even a few of its supporters 
have been forthright enough to admit that it is a backdoor way of 
achieving what they want, which is defeat in Iraq by a premature 
withdrawal, because they know the chaos this would spread. They know 
what would happen if we tried to implement this into law. As Secretary 
Gates said on FOX News, such congressional meddling would mean force 
management, make problems that would be extremely difficult, and affect 
combat effectiveness and perhaps pose greater risk to our troops. He 
said when lawmakers intrude into this process, they could produce gaps 
during which one unit pulling out would not be immediately replaced by 
another, and as a result, they would have an area of combat operations 
with no U.S. forces, and the troops coming in would be at greater risk.

Contrary to the notion of its supporters that the measure would give 
the Armed Forces relief, it actually might force greater use of the 
National Guard and reservists. I am concerned about the National Guard 
and Reserve; they have been overstressed. I am concerned about our 
military; they have been overstressed. You know what happened? After 
the first gulf war in the 1990s, we slashed the size of our military. 
We slashed it far too much. The President recommended; the Congress 
went along with it. We slashed it too far. We are starting to rebuild. 
We have a very dangerous world. We need to have a military ready to 
respond.

Let me talk about the troops. I hear from a lot of them. I hear from 
my son, who is on his second tour in Iraq. He is a sniper platoon 
commander. He says he can only speak for 30 or 40 marines, but the one 
thing they understand is they want to complete their mission. They want 
to come home. Sure, they would like to be home. But they signed up for 
a mission. They don't want to withdraw, see all their contributions and 
sacrifices go for naught. They know that meddling in the war strategy, 
cut and withdrawal, cut and jog, or tying up the management of the war 
would be a disaster. They know that al-Qaida and the enemy is hoping 
that will happen.

This amendment is not as straightforward as cutting funding or 
withdrawing the troops, but it is perhaps more dangerous. That is why I 
urge my colleagues to stand up for the men and women who might be put 
at greater risk, and our national security interests, by refusing the 
amendment.

I want to talk about another part of this debate that is very 
shameful. MoveOn.org's attack depicting General Petraeus as ''Betray 
Us'' should be condemned, period.

It was an attack on the integrity of an intellectual, distinguished, 
and patriotic officer serving his Nation during a time of war, with the 
confidence of his troops behind him.

Make no mistake about it, discussing and condemning MoveOn.org's ad 
is not a sideshow or a distraction. In fact, it is paramount in a time 
of war we condemn the trashing of decorated military officers highly 
respected by their troops, and this one unanimously approved by this 
body, in order to achieve a political objective.

Marty Conaster, commander of the American Legion said:




 As Americans, we all have a duty to speak up when our 


 uniformed heroes are slandered.


He went on to say:




 The libelous attack on a general is not the American 


 Legion's primary concern about the anti-war movement. Our 


 concern is for the private, the sergeant, the lieutenant and 


 the major. If a distinguished general could be attacked in 


 such a manner, what can the rank-and-file soldier expect when 


 he or she returns home?


Sadly, the MoveOn.org ad is emblematic of a broader struggle by 
opponents of the war to muzzle other experts and discredit their views.

It is this tactic of desperation and, ironically, one that attempts 
to distract the American people from the realities of the threat our 
Nation and our allies face from terrorism.

Sadly, Mr. Presiident, this effort is being used to attack another 
distinguished military man approved by this body. It has to do with the 
field of intelligence, and this is another area we learned is 
critically important on our Intelligence Committee delegation to Iraq 
in May.

When we were in Iraq, one of our key generals expressed his great 
frustration that old provisions of the FISA law were blocking him from 
keeping our troops in the field safe. Well, I have some good news on 
that front, and I


thank the Members of this body on both sides of the aisle who, on a 
bipartisan basis, approved the Protect America Act on August 3 and 
August 4. That has opened up the lines of communications, the lines of 
intelligence for our troops in the field, for our safety here at home 
and homeland security. It has been very important and it eliminated a 
blockage that was critical.

Now, after we passed it, I have heard some critics, most recently, 
notably, in the House who have been trying to rewrite history and say 
the law did things it did not do. They have tried to discredit ADM Mike 
McConnell, the Director of National Intelligence. I am compelled to set 
the record straight.

As vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee and sponsor of 
the Protect America Act, I was the lead negotiator during the final 
hours as Congress acted to pass a critical short-term update to our 
Nation's law governing terrorist surveillance. As one who was there, I 
dispute the misinformation being spread by some, and largely those who 
were not there, and I will outline the events as they occurred. For my 
colleagues and members of the press who are interested in the other 
side of the story, here is what happened.

First, the timeline of events:

In January, the President announced his Terrorist Surveillance 
Program was being put under the FISA Court, the Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Act Court. Our Director of National Intelligence, the DNI, 
subsequently stated that after that time the intelligence community 
lost a significant amount of its collection capability because of the 
fact that the law, as interpreted, did not square with the technology 
now in place and it was imposing unwarranted limitations we had not had 
when we were collecting radio communications, and he asked the Congress 
to modernize FISA sooner rather than later.

As I said, when we toured Iraq in May, our Joint Special Operations 
Commander, LTG Stan McChrystal, told us the blockage in electronic 
surveillance by FISA was substantially hurting his ability to gain the 
intelligence he needed to protect our troops in the field and gain an 
offensive advantage.

On April 12, the DNI sent his full FISA modernization proposal to 
Congress. On May 1, DNI McConnell presented it in open session to the 
Senate Intelligence Committee. Immediately following the admiral's 
testimony, I urged that our committee mark up FISA legislation. The 
reply was until the President turned over certain legal opinions from 
the surveillance program, Congress would not modernize FISA.

That Congress would hold American security hostage to receiving 
documents from a program that no longer existed was disheartening. We 
have received an inordinate amount of documents from the Department of 
Justice and the DNI. Yet I do not dispute the desire or the right of 
Members to seek a few important documents from the executive branch. In 
fact, I have joined in requesting those. But I did disagree with 
holding up FISA modernization when those documents are not necessary to 
do that. Now, despite the urging from the DNI and knowing this outdated 
law was harming our terrorist surveillance capabilities, for more than 
3 months Congress chose to do nothing.

In late June, Admiral McConnell briefed Members of the Senate again 
urging us to modernize FISA. Finally, his pleadings began to gain 
traction.

In mid-July, Members of Congress agreed to discuss a short-term, 
scaled-down version of FISA to protect the country for the next few 
months before we could address comprehensive reform this fall. Admiral 
McConnell immediately sent Congress his scaled-down proposal.

Over the next week, Admiral McConnell was given nearly a half dozen 
versions of unvetted proposals from various congressional staffs across 
Congress and then pressed for instant support of these proposals. The 
admiral returned a compromise proposal, including some of the 
provisions requested.

Finally, we in this body on August 3 and in the House on August 4 
passed, on a bipartisan basis, the Protect America Act.

I am pleased that the admiral and I could include in the measure we 
passed several important changes suggested by members of the majority 
party. We recognized this legislation still needs to be clarified, but 
it allowed the intelligence community to collect very important foreign 
intelligence targeted at foreign sources to keep our troops and 
Americans here at home safe.

After the passage of the act, I spoke with a number of members of the 
Senate Intelligence Committee, and I am confident now that we will be 
able to craft an improved, permanent version of FISA. So there is good 
news on that front. But now that I have laid out the timeline of sorts, 
I do need to address some recent attempts, primarily in the other body, 
to discredit our Director of National Intelligence, Admiral McConnell.

As I said with General Petraeus, unfortunately, the M.O. for some is 
attacking military leaders. Here, as others attacked Petraeus, they are 
attacking personally another honorable man. I am disappointed with 
those who are charging Admiral McConnell with partisanship and 
duplicity for their own political gains.

Despite accusations to the contrary, Admiral McConnell never agreed 
to any proposal he had not seen in writing by congressional staff. 
There were indeed several dialogs where concepts were discussed, but I 
noted that Admiral McConnell at the end of every discussion said he 
needed to see and review with these leaders the congressional language 
in writing before he could support it. It is a good thing he objected 
because I was present when several elements of FISA were agreed to that 
the DNI and I wanted but subsequently and notably were absent from 
congressional proposals later sent to the admiral.


Unfortunately, this bait-and-switch during negotiations was not the 
only disappointment. There were efforts by some to circumvent the 
committee process and craft legislation behind closed doors without 
input from the relevant committee or from the minority side of the 
aisle. Even as the vice chairman of the Intelligence Committee, I was 
excluded from most of the key meetings. Not only was I excluded, but 
most members of the Intelligence Committee, Republicans and Democrats, 
were left out of the process. Despite attempts to leave out key Members 
of Congress during the last negotiations, I think we are on the right 
track. I am confident the Senate Intelligence Committee can pass 
comprehensive FISA reform, and we have engaged in very positive and 
encouraging talks, not just--obviously, I have talked with the 
chairman, Chairman Rockefeller. The Democrats and Republicans in the 
Senate are making great progress. We are working on the issue, and I 
have confidence that colleagues on both sides of the aisle can come 
together on this issue.

Unfortunately, again, today, another Member of the House is trying to 
demonize to the American public the Protect America Act that we passed 
in August, saying the bill went too far and was a power grab of 
executive power. They wrongly claim the law allows warrantless searches 
of Americans' homes, offices, and computers and reduces the FISA Court 
to a rubberstamp. That is absolutely flat dead wrong.

While I agree, as I said earlier, the law can be improved, clarified, 
nothing could be further from the truth. Quite the opposite, the law 
gave the FISA Court a greater role than it was ever meant to have when 
FISA was passed in 1978. This Protect America Act in no way allows for 
warrantless physical searches of Americans' homes, offices, and 
computers. This sort of inaccurate fear-mongering should have no place 
in this debate.

I am counting on cooler heads to prevail in the Senate Intelligence 
Committee, and in the committee we are making real progress. I think 
with the members we have on our committee, we have a great chance to 
get an even better bill forging bipartisan solutions that will deal 
with some questions probably not contemplated when the initial proposal 
came up to us. We have a lot of different opinions, but all our members 
want to do what is best for national security and best ensures privacy 
protections. The key is working out just the right balance, and I am 
optimistic we will do so.

As we saw in the strong bipartisan support for the Protect America 
Act,


we can act in a bipartisan manner to protect terrorist surveillance--a 
critical early warning system--while protecting the civil liberties of 
ordinary Americans.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have a brief editorial from 
Investor's Business Daily called ''Mettle Vs. Meddle,'' referring 
essentially to the amendment before us, printed in the Record.