# FREE FLOW OF INFORMATION ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `db5e2f09c3dcc84ddd50f9a81cd9af5b`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 30 July 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. I thank the distinguished Presiding Officer.

Mr. President, I said on the Senate floor yesterday that I support 
the Free Flow of Information Act, S. 2035. Senator Specter, the 
distinguished ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, was exactly 
right when he said in his remarks last night that ''this bill is long 
past due.'' After months and months of needless delay by the Senate 
minority, I hope we will finally be permitted to consider this 
important legislative effort this morning. This is legislation that 
passed overwhelmingly in the other body. If the Republicans would allow 
it, it would pass overwhelmingly in this body.

The Senate minority's delay tactics are nothing new. Since the 
beginning of this Congress, we have witnessed all manner of 
obstructionism by a minority of Republican Senators using filibuster 
after filibuster, the most ever in the history of this country for that 
period of time. They use these filibusters to thwart the will of the 
majority of the Senate to conduct the business of the American people.

Republican filibusters prevented Senate majorities from passing the 
climate change bill. Republicans blocked us from passing the Employee 
Free Choice Act. Republicans blocked the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. 
Republicans blocked the DC Voting Rights Act. Republicans blocked the 
Renewable Fuels, Consumer Protection, and Energy Efficiency Act of 
2007. Republicans blocked the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 
2008. Republicans blocked the Medicare Improvements for Patients and 
Providers Act of 2008. Republicans blocked the Consumer-First Energy 
Act. Most recently, Republicans blocked the Warm in Winter and Cool in 
Summer Act. That was designed to bring much needed relief to poor 
families who struggle to heat and cool their homes in times of soaring 
gas prices, matters that have become literally life or death for some 
of these people.

Republican filibusters blocked the Advancing American's Priorities 
Act which includes 35 stalled legislative matters including--and these 
were blocked by the Republicans--the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights 
Crime Act, the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act, and Republicans blocked 
several bills to help law enforcement cope with mentally ill offenders 
and to protect our children from the scourge of drugs, child 
pornography, and child exploitation. Republicans blocked all those 
bills. It would be a lot more if we also list all those bills President 
Bush has vetoed since the beginning of this Congress.

Here are the measures blocked by the Republicans and the President: 
legislation to fund stem cell research and fight deadly and 
debilitating diseases. Republicans blocked to extend and expand the 
successful State Children's Health Insurance Program. Republicans 
blocked a program that would have provided health insurance to more of 
the millions of American children without it. They blocked setting a 
timetable for bringing American troops home from Iraq. They blocked an 
attempt to ban waterboarding and help restore America as a beacon for 
the rule of law.

The Free Flow of Information Act should not be added to the long list 
of legislative victims of Republican obstructionism. It is time for 
Senate Republicans to climb down from the barricades and work with us 
to improve the lives of the American people.

Time is running short in this Congress. It is past time to end the 
partisan gamesmanship and to make progress. That is what I have been 
trying to do throughout this Congress. I hope, after 18 months of 
unnecessary obstruction, all Senators are finally ready to join us in 
getting our work done. We have a historic window of opportunity to 
enact a Federal statutory shield law to protect Americans' right to 
know.

I thank Majority Leader Reid for his willingness to bring the matter 
before the Senate. I worked with him to find an opportunity for Senate 
action since the Judiciary Committee reported this bill last October, 
and I appreciate his support.

Senator Specter and I wrote to him and the Republican leader in March 
urging consideration of this bipartisan measure. Before that, I had 
written and spoken with the majority leader about this legislation.

Our bill has 20 Senate cosponsors. The claim made yesterday by a 
Republican Senator that this bill is not ready for the Senate's 
consideration is simply unfounded. The Judiciary Committee has been 
working on a bipartisan basis for the past year to reach


consensus on Federal shield legislation. In addition, the Judiciary 
Committee held three separate hearings on this bill during the 109th 
Congress. I hope that the Republican cosponsors of this bill will join 
us in moving to the bill and that they will bring along the seven or 
eight Republicans needed to defeat another Republican filibuster and 
allow us to make progress.

A free and vibrant press is essential to a free society in our 
country or any country. That has been demonstrated over and over again 
during the past 8 years. That is why I cosponsored the Senate version 
of this bill and worked hard for a meaningful reporters' shield law 
this year. That is why I made sure that for the first time ever, for 
the first time in history, the Senate Judiciary Committee reported a 
media shield law to protect the public's right to know. I was glad to 
see that this bill was favorably reported by a strong bipartisan 15-to-
4 vote.

I thank the leaders in the Senate who worked hard on the Federal 
reporters' shield law--Senators Schumer, Specter, Dodd, and Lugar as 
well as the dozens of media groups that support this measure.

All of us, whether Republican, Democratic, or Independent, have an 
interest in enacting a balanced and meaningful shield bill to ensure 
the free flow of information to the American people. Forty-nine States 
and the District of Columbia currently have codified or common law 
procedures to protect confidential information sources. But even with 
these State law protections, the press remains the first stop, rather 
than the stop of last resort, for our government and private litigants 
when it comes to seeking information.

Our time to act is now. Our opportunity to act is now. The Washington 
Times editorialized on July 25, ''[a] sound shield law guards not 'the 
media' but something much more vital--the public's right to know.''

I urge that all Senators do the right thing and end this unnecessary 
and counterproductive filibuster.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record the Washington 
Times editorial in support of this bill.