# None
## `db5eb1089b2ce66061b4727c2b93253b`
`Mr. BERMAN â€” 10 December 2009`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Madam Speaker, I would like to call the attention of my 
colleagues in the Congress to a successful meeting of the Transatlantic 
Legislators' Dialogue, TLD, in New York City from December 4-7, 2009. 
Chairwoman Shelley Berkley led a strong bipartisan delegation, which 
included Vice-Chairman Cliff Stearns, Vice-Chairman Jim Costa, Gary 
Ackerman, Xavier Becerra, Dennis Cardoza, John Duncan, Jr., Eliot 
Engel, Virginia Foxx, Bart Gordon, Jay Inslee, Sheila Jackson-Lee, Ron 
Klein and Loretta Sanchez. I wish to recognize these members for their 
thoughtful contributions to an informed and productive exchange of 
views with Members of the European Parliament.

The Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue serves as the formal response 
of the European Parliament and the U.S. Congress to the commitment in 
the New Transatlantic Agenda of 1995 to enhance legislative ties 
between the European Union and the United States. The TLD involves 
biannual meetings between American and European legislators in order to 
foster transatlantic discourse and exchange views on topics of mutual 
interest. Given the recent adoption of the Lisbon Treaty and the 
additional powers it provides to the European Parliament, it is even 
more important that legislators engage in this dialogue in order to 
seek joint solutions to the pressing issues facing citizens on both 
sides of the Atlantic.

Participants at the New York meeting held extensive discussions about 
the financial crisis and international trade. The debate was informed 
by presentations from the Obama administration, including Michael 
Froman, Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic 
Affairs, and Mark Sobel, Acting Assistant Secretary for International 
Affairs at Treasury. The TLD emphasized the need for a strong and 
coordinated transatlantic policy response, while reiterating the 
importance of the Transatlantic Economic Council, TEC, as a framework 
for cooperation.

Considerable attention was paid to foreign policy issues. TLD 
participants engaged in vigorous debate about the Middle East, hearing 
the administration's perspective from Jeffrey Feltman, Assistant 
Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs. Other foreign policy debates 
focused on Afghanistan and Pakistan, the Iranian nuclear threat, 
relations with Russia, and the Balkans. These deliberations were 
further enhanced by the delegation's meetings on the final day of the 
TLD at the United Nations with Ambassador Susan Rice and Under-
Secretary-General for Political Affairs B. Lynn Pascoe.

In addition, the delegates talked about the challenge of climate 
change and energy security with Jon Wellinghoff, Chairman of the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. They also discussed a range of 
civil liberties issues, including American travel regulations and 
President Obama's efforts to close Guantanamo.

In conclusion, I submit the joint statement that was agreed upon by 
American and European legislators at the 67th TLD meeting held in New 
York. This document emphasizes the importance of continued 
transatlantic dialogue and cooperation in jointly addressing current 
financial and foreign policy challenges

 Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue, 67th Meeting of Delegations From 
the European Parliament and the United States Congress, Joint Statement


 (By Shelley Berkley, Cliff Stearns, Jim Costa, Elmar Brok, Sarah 











 Ludford, and Niki Tzavela)




 We, the Members of the European Parliament and the United 


 States House of Representatives, held our 67th 


 Interparliamentary meeting (Transatlantic Legislators' 


 Dialogue) in New York City, from 4-7 December 2009.





 Building on the joint statement issued following our last 


 meeting in Prague on 18-20 April 2009, we reasserted the 


 importance of regular dialogue on the pressing political, 


 social and economic challenges that affect citizens on both 


 sides of the Atlantic. We agreed to report back to our parent 


 bodies on the content and outcome of our discussions in New 


 York, with an emphasis on the areas where joint efforts are 


 likely to produce positive outcomes.



 The Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue appreciated the 


 Lisbon treaty's entry into force, with its enhancement of the 


 powers and competences of the European Parliament in areas 


 such as International Trade and Justice and Home Affairs, as 


 well as the appointment of an EU President and High 


 Representative. We expressed our desire to continue building 


 on the political momentum created by the election of new 


 administrations in Europe and the United States in order to 


 further strengthen the transatlantic relationship.



 We called for continued collaboration between legislators 


 in the U.S. Congress and the European Parliament on 


 legislation and issues of common concern, formalising lines 


 of communication and information-sharing between EU and U.S. 


 legislators to promote compatible legislation reflecting 


 transatlantic cooperation through the work of the committees, 


 in full respect for each side's sovereignty.



 We discussed a wide array of international political 


 questions such as the situations in the Middle East, 


 Afghanistan/Pakistan, the Balkans, Russia and Iran's nuclear 


 programme.



 We also examined a wide array of issues of common interest, 


 including global concerns relating to Energy and Climate 


 Change, Financial Services and International Trade. We 


 examined how the United States and the European Union could 


 best cooperate in matters of Civil Liberties and Justice and 


 Home Affairs.



 Our conclusions are as follows:












 International Political Issues




 (a) Peace in the Middle East requires a durable ceasefire, 


 an immediate and unconditional end to terrorist attacks on 


 Israel, a functioning and effective government in the 


 Palestinian Territories and the resumption of the obligations 


 under the roadmap, including an end to incitement and a 


 solution for the question of settlements. The goal is a 


 secure Jewish state of Israel and a viable Palestinian state, 


 living side by side.



 (b) We held a strong debate exchanging a wide array of 


 views between and within the delegations on the strategy for 


 Afghanistan/Pakistan announced by President Obama on 1 


 December 2009, which provided a new impetus for renewed 


 international commitment to confronting the ongoing 


 challenges of security, terrorism, governance, corruption and 


 socio-economic reconstruction. We look forward to the 


 international conference on Afghanistan that will be held on 


 28 January 2010 under the auspices of the UN. The EU and the 


 U.S. should enhance their cooperation and support, foster 


 burden-sharing, work to improve the coordination and 


 effectiveness of Provincial Reconstruction Teams (PRTs), and 


 seek to help build critical infrastructure across 


 Afghanistan. Maintaining the stability and cooperation of 


 Pakistan is equally important as well.



 (c) On Iran, the dialogue noted the recent, troubling moves 


 by the Iranian Government regarding its nuclear programme, 


 affirmed that a nuclear armed Iran is unacceptable and 


 expressed its concern about the human rights situation in the 


 country. We urge the leaders on both sides of the Atlantic to 


 develop a common policy and unite the international community 


 to meet this threat, including strong sanctions, if it 


 continues to fail to comply with its international 


 obligations in the nuclear area.



 (d) Relations with Russia should involve constructive 


 cooperation on challenges and threats, including security 


 matters, disarmament and non-proliferation, along with 


 respect for democratic principles including human rights 


 standards, and adherence to international law. The dialogue 


 expressed concerns about Russia's continued failure to comply 


 with the 2008 ceasefire agreements with Georgia negotiated by 


 French President Sarkozy, as well as the potential for 


 another energy dispute with Ukraine this winter. We also 


 cited the need to enhance mutual trust between the 


 transatlantic partners and Russia. We welcome the ongoing 


 U.S.-Russia negotiations on arms reduction and look forward 


 to Russia's membership in the WTO, once those negotiations 


 are satisfactorily completed, with all its legal obligations.



 (e) Challenges remain in our efforts to integrate the 


 Western Balkans into a united Europe. Cooperation between the 


 United States and the European Union remains the most 


 effective way to encourage political and economic development 


 in Kosovo as well as to facilitate constitutional reform in 


 Bosnia, and ensure respect for the rule of law, including 


 cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for 


 Yugoslavia, throughout the region.













 Energy and climate change




 We agreed that the Copenhagen Conference is one of the 


 biggest challenges for international cooperation. We welcomed 


 the announcement of President Obama's personal involvement in 


 the COP-15 Summit in Copenhagen.



 We discussed the common goal to provide the necessary 


 stimulus for sustainable economic growth, promoting green 


 technologies and creating new jobs.



 We discussed how the EU and the U.S. could work together to 


 reach an international agreement to reduce greenhouse gas 


 emissions by setting ambitious reduction targets for 


 industrialised countries and identifiable actions by 


 developing countries. We discussed cap-and-trade systems and 


 the need to avoid incompatible emission trading systems to 


 pave the way to a transatlantic, and ultimately a global 


 carbon market. We noted the link between tackling climate 


 change and addressing energy security and economic growth, 


 recognizing that the fight against climate change could also 


 be an opportunity to create new jobs and sustain economic 


 growth.



 We welcomed the creation of a new EU-U.S. Energy Council at 


 the last EU-U.S. Summit in order to strengthen the dialogue 


 on strategic energy issues of mutual interest, foster 


 cooperation on energy policies and further improve research 


 collaboration on sustainable and clean energy technologies. 


 We look forward to the Energy Council deliberations feeding 


 the TEC process and we consider this as another area where 


 the TLD can develop further.
















Financial Crisis




 We examined the consequences of the global economic and 


 financial turmoil. We agreed that the crisis requires a 


 strong and coordinated policy response by the U.S. and the 


 EU. Recovery plans currently being adopted are critical in 


 mitigating the effects of the crisis: approaches chosen 


 should be compatible, strengthen financial supervision to 


 ensure confidence in the system, avoid protectionist 


 measures, and avoid distortions of competition in the 


 transatlantic marketplace.



 We discussed the role of international cooperation in 


 financial regulation and supervision, including better crisis 


 prevention and management, and agreed that the EU and U.S. 


 should cooperate on the reform of international financial 


 institutions.



 We are pleased that the G-20 leaders have decided to give 


 the emerging countries, within the International Monetary 


 Fund, a position commensurate with their weight in today's 


 global economy so as to ensure support for the developing 


 world and to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.









 Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs




 We welcomed the ''Washington Declaration'' on 28 October 


 2009 on enhancing transatlantic cooperation in the area of 


 Justice, Freedom and Security within a context of respect for 


 human rights and civil liberties. We expressed the hope that 


 it will provide a framework to replace the ad hoc approach of 


 the last decade on data collection and sharing arrangements 


 (PNR, SWIFT, MoUs linked to visa waiver, etc.) with a more 


 strategic approach of law enforcement and judicial 


 cooperation through the Mutual Legal Assistance and 


 Extradition Agreements and through developing an agreement on 


 data protection.



 We discussed President Obama's desire to close the 


 Guantanamo detention facility within a year, taking note of 


 the offer by several European countries to accept Guantanamo 


 inmates and encouraging the U.S. and the EU to continue 


 seeking joint solutions to combat terrorism.



 The dialogue also discussed the EU-U.S. negotiations to 


 extend the Visa Waiver Programme to the remaining EU member 


 states. We hope that the U.S. visa waiver programme will be 


 extended to all EU citizens as soon as possible, when the 


 criteria have been met. An exchange of views took place on 


 the recent adoption of the U.S. Travel Promotion Act.



 In light of the concerns about the Safe Port Act raised by 


 port operators and the trade community, in particular with 


 respect to the cost/benefit ratio of the scanning 


 requirement's possible negative effects on competitiveness 


 and on transatlantic trade flows, we were of the view that 


 the U.S. Administration should re-examine this legislation.










International Trade and WTO negotiations




 We agreed that trade is as central to the EU-U.S. 


 relationship as it is to world recovery. We call upon the 


 European Commission and the United States to redouble their 


 efforts to bring the Doha Round of world trade talks to a 


 successful conclusion.



 We believe that international trade can make a contribution 


 to the restoration of world economic growth and that work to 


 integrate and harmonise EU and U.S. trade practices will lead 


 to a global improvement in living standards and will help 


 secure quality jobs in both the European Union and in the 


 United States.



 We believe that participation by Congress and the European 


 Parliament in the Parliamentary Conference of the WTO and in 


 its Steering Committee would enhance cooperation at a global 


 level. We, therefore, call on the leadership of both bodies 


 to take appropriate steps in order to allow us to collaborate 


 in this context.








 Development of Transatlantic Economic Council




 We reiterated our commitment to the Transatlantic Economic 


 Council (TEC), stressing its utility as a framework to 


 achieve a barrier-free market and for macro-economic 


 cooperation between both partners. We welcomed the results of 


 the meeting held on 27 October, particularly the extended 


 dialogue between the Administrations with legislators that 


 identified past challenges




 and future opportunities. We discussed progress made over the 


 past year in promoting transatlantic economic integration, 


 including investment, accounting standards, regulatory 


 issues, the safety of imported products, and the enforcement 


 of intellectual property rights.



 As we told our Administrations during the recent TEC 


 meeting, transatlantic economic cooperation must be more 


 accountable and transparent. In order to help achieve this 


 objective, the schedules of TEC meetings, agendas, roadmaps 


 and progress reports should be agreed upon between the core 


 stakeholders as early as possible and then made public. Such 


 measures are crucial to developing a clear and transparent 


 process for setting the agenda of the TEC, extending the TEC 


 to new sectors, and establishing a roadmap. We continued to 


 encourage the EU and U.S. executive branches to facilitate 


 more active participation by members of the U.S. Congress and 


 the European Parliament in the TEC process, in particular via 


 the TLD, especially for a pre-legislative dialogue between 


 the respective committees of Congress and the European 


 Parliament. TLD members should be full partners in the 


 Transatlantic Economic and Energy Councils.



 We note that on the European side, responsibility for 


 coordinating the TEC will pass from the European Commission's 


 Directorate-General for Enterprise and Industry to its 


 Directorate-General for Trade. We believe that this can 


 provide a new impetus toward removing barriers to trade and 


 investment and on fostering competitiveness in the 


 transatlantic market.














 Strengthening the TLD




 We agreed that a working group should come up as soon as 


 possible with a list of concrete proposals for the further 


 work of the TLD. We noted the recent document written by the 


 Atlantic Council of the United States along with several 


 other policy think tanks, entitled ''Shoulder to Shoulder: 


 Forging a Strategic U.S.-EU Partnership.'' We supported 


 several of the recommendations in the document and will use 


 them as a starting point. For example:



 U.S. Members of the TLD should be drawn from both House and 


 Senate. U.S. House members should be appointed by the Speaker 


 of the House.



 The U.S. Congress should open an office in Brussels. The 


 office would service the TLD and monitor legislation 


 affecting U.S. interests. We noted the European Parliament is 


 opening an office in Washington in January 2010.



 The TLD should convene a joint consultative committee on 


 the extraterritorial implications of domestic legislation; 


 and focus regular exchanges on upstream regulatory 


 legislation.



 The TLD should hold joint hearings and conduct joint study 


 tours to areas of common concern, for instance to the Middle 


 East.



 The U.S. Congress and the European Parliament should ensure 


 regular contacts between appropriate staff, not simply in 


 foreign affairs-related work but across the board in key 


 areas of mutual engagement.



 The TLD should spearhead a new generation of internships in 


 Congressional and European Parliament offices. Each 


 Congressional office should offer to host one intern from the 


 EU; each European Parliament office should offer to host one 


 intern from the United States.



 In conclusion, we reaffirmed our commitment to 


 strengthening the transatlantic relationship and working in 


 partnership to solve common challenges. We pledged to 


 continue improving the effectiveness of our dialogue in order 


 to realize the full potential of our invaluable 


 interparliamentary relationship, as well as to ensure the 


 relevance of the TLD's work to the European Parliament and 


 the United States Congress.
