---
---

# None
## `db5fdeec81dede1d4a068b8428dc43e0`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mrs. Tubbs Jones.

Tim, we used to play football once upon a time, and I remember being 
on the sideline as a freshman member of the football team. I used to be 
what they call a ''headhunter.'' I used to break the wedge in kickoff. 
That's the way I got on the bus to be able to travel. And many times I 
would sit on the sideline and say, ''Wow, the coach just let me in. 
I'll sack that quarterback.'' Well, you know, this is one of these 
moments. I'm so glad that I'm a Member of Congress and it's been 
federalized by the people of the 17th Congressional District to come up 
here and represent them and the American people. And I'm proud of the 
fact that we have passed a children's health care bill that covers 
children that are in need, that means families, that means a healthier 
America, that means better test scores, that means lower cost to State 
and local communities from picking up emergency room bills where they 
end up getting the care because they have to provide the care, but 
there's no way to pay for the care, then raise local taxes on the local 
community because of that lack of health care insurance for that 
uninsured child. I'm so glad that I've had the experience of walking to 
a CVS, Wal-Mart, whatever you want to call it, into a drugstore, and 
I'm glad as a Member of Congress I have witnessed mothers and fathers 
trying to figure out how they can stop their child from coughing and 
how can they prevent the sickness that is spreading in some communities 
based on the fact that it is financially challenged, need it be urban 
or rural. I'm glad I'm here to give them voice because apparently, Mr. 
Speaker, there are some Members in this Chamber and there are some 
Members in the other Chamber over in the Senate that, in my opinion, 
are failing to represent that side of America. One may say, well, 
Congressman, I understand, colleague, what have you, you're talking 
about those other folks, you're not talking about me. Well, guess what? 
I'm so glad, Mr. Murphy, that I have health care insurance, but I 
didn't ask my constituents to elect me so that I could have health care 
insurance and they can't. That's not how this thing works. And my kids, 
like Mr. Ryan said, they go to school with other kids, and if those 
kids don't have the necessary insurance to have preventive care to head 
off some of the major issues that they're going to face because they're 
getting drugstore care, the best care that their parents can provide 
for them, they're going to make my child sick. So now we're back to the 
point of fiscal responsibility and we're back to the point of doing the 
right thing and good government and where I left off.

I'm glad Mrs. Tubbs Jones mentioned that this is a bipartisan bill, 
passed this House overwhelmingly, passed the Senate with a very good 
vote. Now the question comes to my Republican colleagues, because the 
President is not going to run for President again, and the thing about 
it is that we have term limits on the Presidency of the United States, 
and that's


been carved out long before my presence here in Congress and long 
before my mother's presence here in Congress. But Mr. Ryan pointed 
something out, because I'm putting this back on the Members of the 
House and the Senate and the Congress, because I don't want Members 
going home saying, well, you know, the President, and the President 
this and the President that. My constituents want more than that. It's 
almost like when I walk into my Baptist church, they want to hear more 
as a Christian than one day Jesus Christ, he died on Calvary. They need 
to hear more than that. They need to hear more of a story. They need to 
hear more of the reason why we practice that certain religion.

Putting that aside just for a moment, our constituents have to know 
more about what's going on here in Washington, DC. That parent needs to 
know why. The President is saying socialized medicine. Well, that's 
what he says, that's his Potomac two-step because the average American 
doesn't even know what you're talking about when you say ''socialized 
medicine.'' They understand health care.



They understand being able to take their child to a doctor and the 
States understand, the 43 or 46 Governors that are supporting the SCHIP 
bill, they understand getting a block grant from the Federal Government 
so they can provide health care for their children.

I would like to talk a little bit about what Mr. Ryan mentioned. This 
President and the past Republican majority here in this House 
irresponsibly gave tax cuts to billionaires and millionaires and then 
turned around and gave unprecedented subsidies to oil companies of some 
$50 billion, $8 billion in lost waste, fraud and abuse of no-bid 
contracts in Iraq, billions of dollars for schools and roads and 
clinics in Iraq, stood up here teary-eyed saying, ''We need to help the 
Iraqi people.'' Well, I want folks to get teary-eyed about helping 
American children and their families. I want them to get teary-eyed. I 
want them to get emotional.

When you look at this foreign debt hold, no other time in the history 
of this country have we ever been in the fiscal situation that this 
President has put us in and the Republican, thank God the minority now, 
has put us in in the past, and this is what we owe these foreign 
countries. I am going to move on because I know we have some Members 
here.

Here is another issue. When you look at the cost of the war and how 
many kids can be enrolled in Healthy Start. I am just going to use the 
per hour number, $13.7 million, 2,000 kids can be enrolled. And then I 
am going to jump up here to the 1-year cost, $120 billion for the 1-
year cost, 16.7 million kids can go into Healthy Start. Now, that is 
just Healthy Start.

We come to the floor with the facts, not fiction. Here is the 
nonpartisan Congressional Research Service. I just want to make sure 
that all the Members are with me on this. The cost of the Iraq war is 
rising. Again, here are the numbers. Per second. Since I have been here 
talking a few seconds have passed. Per second, $3,816 is being spent 
per second. Do you hear the Members down here talking about wasteful 
spending, anything like that? Meanwhile, we are giving the Iraqi 
Government all kind of chances.

To further drive my point home, here it is, President Bush, Members 
are familiar with this, doubled the foreign-held debt. It took 42 
Presidents 224 years to build up $1 trillion in foreign debt. All these 
Presidents, this President and his Republican colleagues here in 
Congress have been able to build up more than 42 presidents, 224 years 
of history, $1.19 trillion in debt over the last 6 years, and we have 
turned that around, or are trying to turn that around here.

Here they are. These are my Republican colleagues and the President 
of the United States. Many in this picture are my friends. But I tell 
you one thing: When we send this and we go to try to override the 
President of the United States of America and standing in the 
schoolhouse door not allowing kids to have health care in this country, 
I want to know, are you going to march down to the White House like you 
did when we put time limits on this war and accountability on this war 
to push the Iraqi Government to where they need to be to get our combat 
troops out of harm's way and to get their troops on the ground?

The last time, Mr. Speaker, I was on the floor was Monday with Mrs. 
Tubbs Jones. I walked downstairs and I don't know his name. But it was 
one of our people that work here in the Capitol that constantly bring 
the folks over from Walter Reed on what we call the ''twilight tour,'' 
walking around here in the Capitol, Mr. Murphy, and getting a tour of 
the Capitol. I am sorry, his name escapes me at this point. This vet 
was there with involuntary jerking of his right arm. As a matter of 
fact, I am shocked that they were even able to save his arm. It was so 
twisted with cuts and stitches and all those things. But he was happy 
to walk into this Capitol of great democracy. But guess what? He had a 
child, too. So we get all excited about, we are for the troops, and I 
am for the troops, and you are soft and I am hard and all that kind of 
stuff. That is rhetoric. The real bottom line comes down to, what are 
you going to do as a Members of Congress? Not as some sort of speech 
giver or note reader or whatever the case may be. What are you going to 
do as it relates to being a Member of Congress? Are you going to go 
down and stand with the President and say, ''I'm with the President''? 
Or are you going to be with the children of the United States of 
America?

Mrs. Tubbs Jones and I, we have to see the Federal budget when it 
comes through Ways and Means before it goes to the Budget Committee and 
we met with the Treasury Secretary just today talking about fiscal 
responsibility.

I think the problem, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Murphy, that the President has 
with this issue is that the American people asked for a new direction 
and accountability. Guess what? This SCHIP bill is paid for. We show 
paid for by saying pay-as-you-go. If you're going to do something, you 
have to show how you're going to pay for it. At least that's what they 
said in my house. The President, how did he rack up $1.19 trillion? He 
didn't worry about paying for it. He just said, let's put it on the 
credit card. Let's put it on the children. Let's put it on other folks.

Children have had enough abuse on the part of the past Republican 
majority and the President. Now we are trying to bring about 
accountability in health care and he doesn't want to sign the bill.

Mr. Speaker, the bottom line is, I challenge, this is not a WWF kind 
of experience here, but I challenge my colleagues with a straight face 
to come to this floor and say otherwise why we should not have health 
care for children. I want to make sure that Members understand, this is 
why we're elected, to represent the children, not special interests, 
not the oil companies, not somebody who said, ''Well, if we spend this 
on that, I can't get my tax cut.'' It is not all about that. If we 
can't represent the children of the United States of America, we got a 
big problem. I am so glad that Speaker Pelosi, I am so glad that our 
leadership has said, this is what we're going to do, and that we're 
going to try to override the President. The bottom line is the 
Republican Members of this House have to join and be with us, which 
they are on the bill, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Murphy, but we need more of them 
to override the President of the United States on this very bad veto.

Do we have issues with the SCHIP bill? Is everything in it that 
should be in it? Of course not. But the bottom line is children need 
health care and they need representation.