---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `db7bf2b02ce6f35bfda1b9fd7f3a7f62`
`Mr. ROSS â€” 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, this afternoon, I rise on behalf of the 44-
member-strong, fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, as 
we demand from this Government fiscal accountability as well as fiscal 
responsibility.

Mr. Speaker, as you walk the halls of Congress, it is easy to know 
when you are walking by the door of a fellow fiscally conservative 
Democratic Blue Dog Coalition member, because you will see this poster 
as a welcome mat to his or her office to remind Members of Congress, to 
remind you, Mr. Speaker, to remind me, and to remind the American 
people and all of those who walk the halls of Congress, that the U.S. 
national debt today is $8,696,414,214,377.65.

For every man, woman and child in America, their share, our share, my 
share of the national debt is $28,900.92. That is a big number.

A lot of people think, well, it really does not matter what the debt 
is, our Government can simply print more money. I wish it was that 
simple.

Our Nation today is spending the first half a billion dollars it 
collects in taxes not to improve veterans' health care, to protect our 
troops, to build roads, to fund health care, to protect Social Security 
and Medicare, to ensure the 47 million folks without health insurance 
have access to it. No. The first half a billion dollars that we collect 
every day in taxes from the hard-working people in this country go to 
simply pay interest, not principal but interest, on this number, the 
national debt.

And those which should be America's priorities will continue to go 
unmet until we get our Nation's fiscal house in order. This is 
something that affects every man, woman and child in America. We have a 
plan, a 12-point plan for budget reform to ensure that we can live 
within our means, that we can pay down this debt and restore fiscal 
discipline and common sense to our Government.

One of those 12 points, by the way, Mr. Speaker, is what we referred 
to as PAYGO rules, which means pay as you go. And I am real proud that 
the leadership under this Democratic Caucus in the first 24 hours, not 
100 hours, but the first 24 hours, the Democratic leadership 
reinstituted PAYGO rules on the floor of the House. Which means, quite 
simply, if you want to fund a new program, you got to show us where the 
money is coming from.

Now the Republicans tend to think that that means that to fund new 
programs you raise taxes. I find it quite interesting that the 
Republicans think that PAYGO, pay as you go, means raise taxes to pay 
for new spending. It does not mean that. It means cut programs. It 
means make the tough choices to put an end to the waste in Government.

I got some 8,000 brand new, fully furnished mobile homes sitting at 
the airport in Hope, Arkansas, that were destined for Hurricane Katrina 
storm victims but never reached them. That is $400 million right there.

We are not talking about raising taxes to pay for a new program. But 
I can tell you what we are talking about, Mr. Speaker. We are talking 
about putting an end to the days of the Republican leadership borrowing 
money from China to fund a new program creating this large number, 
making it go up daily. It is still going up nearly a billion dollars a 
day under the Republican budget that was approved last year.

No more of that, Mr. Speaker. No more borrowing money from China to 
build a rain forest in Iowa. We are demanding that you show us how you 
pay for your projects and your programs. We are going to restore fiscal 
discipline and accountability to our Government.

This week, the President came out with his budget; and we will be 
visiting more about the President's budget during this hour.

But another thing that the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog 
Coalition is doing is we have gotten together and we have written and 
endorsed what is referred to as House Resolution 97. And House 
Resolution 97, we have 39 cosponsors. It is providing for Operation 
Iraq Freedom cost accountability.

Put quite simply, we are demanding accountability on how your tax 
money, Mr. Speaker, and the tax money of the hard-working people of 
this country is being spent in Iraq. You ask 100 different people what 
they think about this Iraq policy, you will get about 100 different 
answers. You will find some Members of the Blue Dog Coalition that are 
for the surge, some are against. I am against the surge. I think the 
American people want us to go in a different direction in Iraq.

But one of the things that unites us as a coalition and the things 
that we have endorsed and that we have written and we are trying to put 
in place is House Resolution 97, which has four crucial points that 
demand fiscal responsibility in Iraq.

Point number one, a call for transparency on how Iraq war funds are 
spent. The American people are sending some $9 billion a month to Iraq. 
That is about $12 million an hour. And the American people in this 
country that work hard and pay taxes deserve to know how their money is 
being spent in Iraq.

Number two is the creation of a Truman Commission to investigate the 
awarding of contracts. It is time, Mr. Speaker, to put an end to war 
profiteering in Iraq.

Number three, a need to fund the Iraq war through the normal 
appropriations process. Play by the rules. No more of this so-called 
emergency supplemental appropriations to hide from the American people 
the true cost of the war.

Finally, number four, use American resources. This is America. We are 
the leader of the free world, and we should


be using our resources to improve Iraqi assumption of internal policing 
operations. In other words, it is time for the Iraqi people to step up 
to the plate and buy into this and take more responsibility and 
accountability.

I am joined this hour by a number of my Blue Dog colleagues, Mr. 
Speaker. At this time, I yield to the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. 
Chandler).