---
---

# None
## `db804dbae8c97f482e2a41ca8125404d`
`Mr. KING of New York — 28 October 2009`

---


Mr. KING of New York. I thank Chairman Rangel for his remarks.

It's very appropriate, I believe, that Congressman McHugh has become 
Secretary of the Army, and these remarks tonight by Mr. Rangel were 
made by someone who has such a distinguished record in the United 
States Army in the Korean War. That's the type of person that John 
McHugh will be representing as Secretary of the Army, heroic men such 
as Congressman Rangel who certainly put their life on the line and 
answered their nation's call.

Mr. Speaker, we have seen a large number of people coming out tonight 
to speak on behalf of Secretary of the Army John McHugh. I was 
fortunate to be elected to the United States Congress in 1992, the same 
year as John McHugh. I knew John McHugh from his outstanding service in 
the New York State Senate, I knew that he was a legislator's 
legislator; and from the moment he arrived here in the Congress, John 
always to me exemplified what a Member of Congress should be. I don't 
know how many times you would walk out that door and see John sitting 
there at a chair and desk studying the legislation.

People say that Members of Congress don't read their legislation. I 
can tell that you John McHugh was constantly reading legislation, 
constantly studying up on what had to be done, constantly trying to 
find bipartisan solutions to problems.

It was mentioned tonight that he served on the Postal Subcommittee, 
where he did author reform legislation of the Postal Service, a very, 
very difficult job.

We talked about the trips he took, the 10 visits to Iraq, the four to 
Afghanistan that he took as a member of the Armed Services Committee. 
Then earlier this year he reached the culmination of his congressional 
career when he was elected as ranking member of the Armed Services 
Committee where, again, he worked very closely with Chairman Ike 
Skelton in a bipartisan way, always putting the troops first. I 
remember during his early years here in Congress when there was an 
attempt to close down Fort Drum and the work that John put in around 
the clock doing what he could and successfully doing what he could to 
save Fort Drum from being closed down.

These are just some examples of the type of dedication that John 
McHugh had. As Congressman Rangel said, there was something else; there 
was no meanness, there was no bitterness, there was no anger in John 
McHugh.

John wanted to find a way to get things done. He had strong 
principles. He had strong beliefs. But he also recognized that people 
on the other side of the aisle and people in his own party also had 
very strong beliefs, and they may be different from his, but he 
respected them.

I wish John the very best as Secretary of the Army. President Obama 
made an absolutely superb selection when he picked John McHugh. I can't 
think of anyone who would dedicate himself more to the men and women of 
the United States Army than John McHugh.

As was mentioned, having traveled with John to Iraq, I would see him 
sit with the generals, the two-star generals, the three-star generals, 
the four-star generals. He would sit with the ambassadors. He would sit 
with all of the high-ranking people. But he always found time to spend 
most of his time with the enlisted men, the enlisted women, the PFCs, 
the sergeants, the first lieutenants, second lieutenants. He realized 
that it wasn't just the people at the top, but it was people at all 
levels, the people who really did the heavy lifting, who put their 
lives on the line, who were the people who made the most impression on 
him and to whom he had the greatest responsibility.

John, I certainly wish you the best. We look forward to your service 
for the United States, for the United States Army. I know that more 
even than the feeling you are going to receive from the Members of 
Congress, it's the men and women of the Armed Forces, of the United 
States Army, who appreciate you the most, because they are going to be 
the greatest beneficiaries of your dedication, your patriotism and your 
hard work.