# PROVIDING FOR PROTECTION OF CHILD CUSTODY ARRANGEMENTS FOR CERTAIN  PARENTS
## `db871f69e8c78d9b0d6d4bd19a1a39f3`
`Mr. TURNER â€” 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. TURNER. Madam Speaker, I would like to thank House leadership, 
the House Armed Services Committee chairman, Chairman Skelton, Ranking 
Member Hunter, as well as the leaders from House Judiciary, Chairman 
John Conyers, and the Veterans Affairs Committee Chair and ranking 
member for their assistance in bringing H.R. 6048 to the floor today. I 
would like to thank our presiding Chair, Ellen Tauscher, also for her 
support of this bipartisan bill.

This bill was originally included as an amendment to the House 
version of last year's National Defense Authorization Act when it 
passed the House by voice vote. The purpose of this bill is 
straightforward. It provides certainty to servicemembers deployed in a 
contingency operation that their child custody arrangements will be 
protected.

Imagine the stress and conflict in serving your country and fearing 
that a court will take your children away because of your service. In 
some cases, courts have overturned established custody arrangements 
because a custodial parent has served our country in a contingency 
operation such as Iraq or Afghanistan.

Recently, many cases have come to light where servicemembers who have 
been deployed have had their military service used against them in 
custody hearings. One such case was that of Eva Slusher. Eva spent 
nearly $25,000 and years trying to regain custody of her daughter after 
fighting courts that used her deployment as a factor against her.

We have heard from other servicemembers who have had similar court 
battles. In fact, recently my office learned about a servicemember who 
during her custody proceedings was told by a judge that the mere 
possibility of her deployment weighed against the best interests of the 
child in denying her custody.

Madam Speaker, I would like to submit for the Record two letters that 
were written to my office by servicemembers detailing their stories of 
how this legislation could have helped.



One of those letters is from Heather Watkins, and I want to read some 
excerpts from that letter. She writes:

At the time of the final custody hearing for my children, the court 
stated that even though he believed I was a good parent, my being 
stationed on the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower prevented me from being able 
to care for my children. Shared custody was granted.

In a subsequent court proceeding, the court again stated that he 
believed I was a good parent and stated that, with the way of the world 
today, I cannot be sure that you will not be called off of shore duty 
and deployed back to sea.

In June 2005, I was honorably discharged. It was implied to me by the 
court that once I was out of the Navy, I would be able to obtain 
custody of my children. This has not proven to be true. I was proud to 
serve my country in the Armed Forces for 13 years, but at this time I 
believe my children were the price I paid for the privilege of 
protecting the United States of America.




 Dear Sir and Madam, I urge you to support the Bill for 


 amendment of the Service Members Civil Relief Act to provide 


 for the protection of child custody for parents who are 


 members of the Armed Forces deployed in the support of a 


 contingency operation as presented by Congressman Mike 


 Turner.



 I have been separated/divorced from my ex-husband since 


 1998. At the time of my divorce I did not dream that my being 


 a Proud Active member of the United States Armed Services 


 could or would be utilized as a tool to separate me from my 


 children.



 At the time of the final custody hearing for my children 


 the court stated that even though he believed that I was a 


 good parent, my being stationed on the USS Dwight D. 


 Eisenhower prevented me from being able to care for my 


 children. Shared custody was granted.



 I re-enlisted in 2001 on the advice of my lawyer to 


 maintain work and income stability. My ship was in dry dock 


 for many months of scheduled maintenance and I was on the 


 shore duty portion of my enlistment contract. My next court 


 date was in October 2001. At the time of my court date, the 


 terrorist attack of September 11 against the United Stated of 


 America was very fresh in the minds of the U.S. citizens and 


 the court. He again stated that he believed that I was a good 


 parent and stated that, with the way of the world today, I 


 cannot be sure that you will not be called off of shore duty 


 and deployed back to sea. The court also voiced concerns that 


 I would join the reserves and not be available to my 


 children. The custody arrangement for my children was left 


 unchanged.



 In June 2005, I was Honorably Discharged. It was implied to 


 me by the court that once I was out of the Navy, I would be 


 able to obtain custody of my children. This has not proven to 


 be true. As of today, I do not have custody of my children. 


 The court does not wish to hear this case again. I have 


 permission to change venue but am unable to find a Judge or 


 court that will hear my case.



 I have not spoken to or had other contact with my children 


 since 12-26-2007. My calls to them have been unanswered and 


 unreturned. I have been unable to get any assistance on local 


 or state levels.



 I was proud to serve my country in the Armed Forces for 13 


 years but at this time I believe my children were the price I 


 paid for the privilege of protecting the United States of 


 America. Again, I urge you to support this Bill as presented 


 by Congressman Mike Turner and prevent any other children 


 being separated from loving parents by virtue of their 


 serving their country.





 Respectfully,























 Heather A. Watkins.


Another letter I have is from Eva Slusher, and she writes that she 
was a full-time member of the Kentucky


Army National Guard, proudly serving her country for nearly 19 years. 
In February of 2003, she was called to Active Duty to support the war 
on terror. She writes:

Initially, it was believed that I was going to Iraq, but once we 
arrived at Fort Knox, it was decided that our Personnel Services 
Detachment would be better used at Fort Knox to assist with the large 
number of troops mobilizing and that they were not equipped to 
facilitate. When I was alerted, I had three days to report. As a single 
parent, I made arrangements for my child, packed her up and moved her, 
and wrapped up all my affairs, financial and otherwise, in those three 
days. My ex-husband and I decided that Sara should stay with him while 
I was gone, but that it would only be temporary and that she would come 
back home when our tour was over.

After her tour was over, custody to her was refused.

In August 2004, we went to court. I was under the impression that we 
were there to have my rights as the custodial parent enforced as no one 
had filed a motion to change custody. However, the next week I received 
the ruling that Sara was to stay with her father as she was settled in 
and that was in her best interest. I was penalized for the time spent 
away from her in service of my country.

She ends with: Everyone wants to talk about supporting our troops. I 
beg you to support this legislation in order to support our troops.


























 May 19, 2008.


 Members of Congress,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Members of Congress:



 I am writing this letter in reference to Congressman 


 Turner's Bill, HR 6048. I, personally, experienced the 


 injustice of losing custody of my child, for no other reason 


 than service to my country. It cost me 2 years of anguish and 


 nearly $25,000 to get my daughter back. This proposed 


 legislation is necessary to prevent this discrimination 


 against our servicemembers.



 I am LT Eva Slusher (formerly Crouch). I am a full time 


 member of the Kentucky Army National Guard, proudly serving 


 my country and State for nearly 19 years. I joined the 


 military when I was 17 years old and a senior in high school. 


 The military has paid for my college education and provided 


 me with reliable, steady employment all of these years.



 I am also a mother. My daughter, Sara, was born in 1994. 


 Her father and I were divorced in 1996. When we divorced, I 


 was award primary physical custody of my daughter, and her 


 father had visitation. My military service was not 


 questioned. This arrangement went unchallenged, even when I 


 moved over 150 miles away from my ex-husband. I raised that 


 child by myself, without any help from him while I worked 


 full time and put myself through college. Sara was my life. 


 Every day revolved around her. I volunteered at her school 


 every other Monday (my day off); she played softball, soccer 


 and cheered. I was an assistant coach of her soccer and 


 cheerleading. I cooked dinner, helped with homework, bathed 


 her and read her bedtime stories every night. I was an 


 exceptional, loving and attentive mother.



 In February 2003, I was called to active duty to support 


 the War on Terror. Initially, it was believed that I was 


 going to Iraq, but once we arrived at Ft. Knox, it was 


 decided that our Personnel Services Detachment would be of 


 better use at Ft. Knox to assist with the large number of 


 troops mobilizing that they were not equipped to facilitate.



 When I was alerted, I had 3 days to report. As a single 


 parent, I had to make arrangements for my child, pack her up 


 and move her and wrap up all of my affairs (financial and 


 otherwise) in those 3 days. My ex-husband and I decided that 


 Sara should stay with him while I was gone, but that it would 


 only be temporary and that she would come back home when my 


 tour was over.



 I was very fortunate to have stayed in country and close 


 enough that I could visit with Sara on the weekends. Nearly 


 every weekend, I drove the 4/1/2/ hours from Ft. Knox to 


 Ashland, KY to see her. I would pick her up and we'd stay in 


 a hotel, and go to movies, dinner, shopping, etc. Many 


 weekends, I would stop by Frankfort on my way and pick up one 


 of her friends, so she could stay in touch with them. I spent 


 about $300 per trip on gas money, hotels, food and 


 entertainment, but it was all worth it to be with my 


 daughter.



 On July 20, 2004, as I pulled into my driveway, I called my 


 ex-husband on the cell phone and told him I was home and that 


 I would be picking Sara up the next day, and to please have 


 her things packed. His response was ''Not without a court 


 order''. Until that moment, no one made any indication to me 


 that Sara would not be coming home as planned. I immediately 


 hired an attorney to file a motion to have my daughter 


 returned to me. In August 2004, we went to court. I was under 


 the impression that we were there to have my rights as the 


 custodial parent enforced, as no one filed a motion for 


 change of custody. However, the next week I received the 


 ruling that Sara was to stay with her father, as she was 


 settled in there and it was in her ''best interest''. I was 


 penalized for the time spent away from her in service to my 


 country. When I got divorced the courts deemed me a fit 


 parent, but now, suddenly, because I served my country, I 


 should not be allowed to raise my child anymore? I was 


 completely appalled! It never occurred to me that this 


 could happen. Soldiers are protected under the 


 Servicemember's Civil Relief Act, or so I thought; an 


 employer has to give me my job back after I return from a 


 deployment, but they don't have to give me my child back? 


 That is insane!



 I was devastated. After having a life that was so full of 


 her, I now came home to an empty house every day! I didn't 


 know what to do with myself! Sara was terribly distraught 


 over the whole situation, to the point that we had to take 


 her to Cincinnati Children's Hospital for stomach problems, 


 all stress related. I only got to see her every other 


 weekend, and she would cry and beg me not to make her go 


 back. It ripped my heart out! Why would a parent put his 


 child through all of this? The real question is: How could 


 our justice system allow this to happen? I still don't have 


 an answer for that.



 After the Court ruling, I hired a new lawyer and we 


 appealed the ruling. In September 2005, they ruled in my 


 favor and my ex-husband appealed to the Kentucky Supreme 


 Court. In September 2006, they also ruled in my favor and my 


 daughter came home on October 15, 2006. I spent more than 2 


 years and between $20,000 and $25,000 in legal fees. Sara is 


 now a happy, healthy, well adjusted child, but I lost so much 


 time with her, and she is not the child I set out to raise. 


 Our lives were turned upside down and the results are 


 everlasting. All of this because I was deployed . . .



 It is a disgraceful injustice to punish a Soldier for their 


 service. The military has done so much for me: a college 


 education, a way to pay my bills and feed my family, a sense 


 of honor and pride . . . When they called on me to do my 


 part, what should I have done? Said ''No thanks, I need to 


 stay home . . .'' Even if that were an option, which it is 


 not, I could not do that. It is not the right thing to do. 


 Loyalty, Duty, Respect, Selfless Service, Honor, Integrity, 


 and Personal Courage: these are the things I stand for, 


 should I lose my child for that? What kind of message is that 


 sending? How is the United States Military supposed to 


 recruit when you send a message like that? Don't we, as 


 Soldiers, already sacrifice enough? How is a Soldier to 


 concentrate on his/her mission while worrying about what will 


 happen to their children? No Soldier should have to incur the 


 emotional and financial cost that I have, only because they 


 serve their country.



 I have my daughter back home with me, but I cannot sit back 


 and allow this to happen to others if I can do anything about 


 it. Since my story was publicized, I have learned that many 


 other Soldiers have also had to deal with similar situations. 


 Not to mention that every unmarried parent in the military, 


 and every parent that has children from previous 


 relationships and any parent that may be divorced in the 


 future has to be concerned with whether or not they may be 


 penalized for their service. This is not the way to treat our 


 military service members.



 Due to the nature of military service, there really needs 


 to be guidance at the federal level. This issue needs to be 


 spelled out as it is in Congressman Turner's Bill: (1) No 


 court may permanently alter an existing custody agreement 


 while a military parent is deployed; (2) Upon the return of 


 the service member from deployment, any temporary change in 


 custody shall be immediately reversed; and (3) No court may 


 consider a military parents' deployment in determining the 


 best interest of the child. Had this been the law in 2004, my 


 daughter and I would not have had to deal with the 


 separation, stress, expense and lifelong effects of a 


 prolonged custody battle.



 Everyone wants to talk about supporting our troops, I beg 


 you to support this legislation in order to support troops. 


 We are not asking for any special consideration, only that 


 our military service not be used against us.





 Very Respectfully,

























 V. Eva Slusher,


























Frankfort, KY.

She has since regained custody of her daughter.

This bill prevents judges from changing the custody arrangements of 
servicemembers and their children during a servicemember's deployment 
unless clear and convincing evidence says a change would be in the best 
interest of the child. The purpose of this provision is to ensure that 
while one parent is deployed, another party cannot permanently change 
custody arrangements. Temporary orders may be enacted and entered until 
the serving parent returns.

Additionally, the bill requires a return to the original 
predeployment custody arrangement after the servicemember returns from 
the contingency operation. And, finally, the bill prohibits the use of 
a servicemember's absence because of their deployment, or the 
possibility of deployment, against that servicemember when ascertaining 
the best interest of the child. Their service cannot be used against 
them.



Much is asked of our servicemembers, and mobilization can disrupt and 
strain relationships at home. This additional protection is needed to 
provide them peace of mind that the courts will not take away their 
children because they answered the country's call to serve or have the 
possibility of being called to serve. This bill protects them and it 
protects their children.

Again, I thank the House leadership for their support of this bill, 
and I urge my colleagues to vote for it.