---
---

# MOTION TO GO TO CONFERENCE ON H.R. 3043, DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH  AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `db9a612e6516206d76b85fd9df2b2dd0`
`Mr. WALSH of New York — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. WALSH of New York. I thank my friend from California for yielding 
time, and I rise in strong support of this motion to instruct 
conferees.

Before I do that though, I'd like to comment, just make a couple of 
comments on some of the debate that's occurred, specifically, the 
notion that the Republican Party, when we were in the majority, did not 
pass our military quality of life and veterans bills. And I know the 
chairman knows this, but we did. In the House, we did. We passed our 
bills overwhelmingly. And we ran into a little problem with the other 
body. And I know the chairman feels our pain there because he has been 
and will continue to be running into problems with the other body, and 
I will work with him on those. But we did conscientiously work to 
resolve these issues here in the House. And I think historically, at 
least in my brief time here, we have done that. But the Senate is the 
Senate, and they do what they do. We do it our own way, and I think we 
do it very effectively regardless of the party in power in the House.

I would also mention, because the chairman did a little bit of 
crowing about the things that they are doing in this bill and they've 
done in the other bills, we passed, year after year after year, record 
increases in veterans health care spending. And they were needed 
because we have so many veterans coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan 
with severe injuries, both physical and mental. But we stepped up to 
the plate and we did it in a bipartisan way. And we passed record 
increases. I think, on average, 10 percent increases per year; faster 
growth than any other budget in the Federal Government. So we are 
second to none in our support of veterans. And we will continue to 
support those bills that the other party passes if they are truly 
bipartisan. And I think this one, the Military Construction and VA bill 
is.

Back to the motion to instruct the conferees. Quite simply, what this 
motion says is that the conferees on Labor, Health and Human Services, 
Education and Related Agencies appropriations bills should not add 
material to the conference report that was not approved by either House 
or the Senate. This should not be controversial, but based on what has 
happened here today, it is.

The reality is that this majority should not be combining a bill that 
has received a veto threat with two other bills that have not.

I've supported the Labor-H bill throughout this process. Chairman 
Obey has been fair, and I've worked with him shoulder to shoulder to 
bring this bill forward. He has fought for Republican and Democratic 
initiatives


and measures equally, and I thank him, and he has my respect for that. 
But I was not consulted when it came to putting these three bills 
together.

I voted for the Military Construction-VA bill. I voted for the 
defense bill. They are all good bills, in my humble opinion. The Senate 
has passed all three bills, as has the House. There is no reason why 
these three bills cannot be conferenced individually, sent to the 
President individually and accepted or rejected individually. But most 
assuredly, by combining them, they are all doomed to fail. If the 
President vetoes any of the three freestanding conference reports, we 
in the House, and our colleagues in the other body, will have an 
opportunity to override that veto.

Frankly, I see the effort to attach the Defense and Military 
Construction-Veterans bills to the Labor-HHS bill as nothing more than 
posturing and, in fact, brinksmanship.

Madam Speaker, the resulting bill would represent everything that is 
wrong with Washington. The confusion that will ensue in the country 
will only serve as a shining example of why this Congress today enjoys 
its lowest approval ratings in generations.

The people of New York's 25th Congressional District sent me to 
Washington to represent their interests and to solve problems. This 
effort to combine these bills creates a problem.

This Congress has produced less than a handful of bills in 10 months, 
and no appropriations bills to date. We can pass and have signed two 
bills easily, the Veterans bill and the Defense bill. But instead, by 
combining these bills to Labor-H, we will bring them all down. It is a 
plan to fail, just like the SCHIP bill was.

As I said, I support the Labor-HHS bill and I will likely continue to 
support it as a freestanding bill.

I understand politics and I understand political strategy, but 
putting funding for veterans health care and our military at risk to 
score points is beyond the pale.

I know there are some Members of Congress and some individuals in the 
White House who would like to see this government continue to operate 
on a continuing resolution as we have this past year. I don't. We can 
pass these bills stand-alone, but we can't pass them lashed together.

This process hurts the credibility of the Appropriations Committee, a 
committee that has historically been nonpartisan and task oriented.

Mark my words, if we continue along this path, we will be operating 
on a CR again in 2008. And for a third year in a row, no Member 
requests will be honored in the Labor-HHS bill, and for a third year in 
a row, the Appropriations Committee will fail to meet its 
responsibilities.