# A NEW GI BILL
## `db9e093c893c52fc71d3496c95625667`
`Mr. AKAKA — 19 May 2008`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I rise to speak in support of a new GI 
bill for the 21st century.

As chairman of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee and as one of 
the 8 million veterans who took advantage of the opportunity to attend 
college on the original World War II GI bill, I know first-hand the 
value of this benefit. It is one of the reasons why I am here today in 
the U.S. Senate.

Without the generous support I received from the GI bill and the 
maturity and discipline I gained from my military experience, I am 
certain that my life would have turned out much differently. Being able 
to attend the University of Hawaii--with all expenses covered--and 
receiving an allowance of $113.50 a month--gave me the start in life 
that led to me standing here in this body today.

Now we should give that same opportunity to those young people--
stepping forward--who put themselves in harm's way for our country. 
That is why I have given my enthusiastic support to the provisions that 
will come before the Senate later this week in the supplemental 
appropriations bill that would establish a new program of educational 
assistance for veterans and servicemembers.

Those provisions are drawn from S. 22,--the proposed Post 9/11 
Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007, which was introduced by my 
good friend and colleague from Virginia, Senator Webb, who serves with 
me on the committee. This is a bipartisan measure that has already been 
approved by the House of Representatives.

This legislation will give thousands of young men and women who 
sacrificed for our country the opportunity to return to civilian life 
and pursue a full-time college education without worrying about what 
they will live on. It makes good on our promise of an education in 
return for volunteering to serve in our military and for honorable 
service.

To those who have concerns about the impact that this proposal might 
have on the Armed Forces ability to recruit and retain quality 
personnel, there are a number of points which must be made.

First, this new GI bill for the 21st century would be a powerful 
recruitment tool for our military. Our bright, college-bound high 
school seniors will see this as an attractive way to pay for their 
advanced education. By completing a 3-year commitment, they will earn a 
benefit that will allow them to attend school without accumulating 
thousands of dollars of debt.

As for retention, the armed services cannot retain those who they do 
not recruit.

In addition, this proposal incorporates a number of tools that the 
military can use to make longer commitments attractive, including 
retention kickers and the option of transferring benefits to family 
members.

I believe that those who would rely on transferability as an 
incentive to longer service would be disappointed. In 2006, the Army 
began offering this option to certain soldiers in critical skill areas. 
Less than 2 percent of the 17,000 soldiers who were given an option to 
transfer benefits to a spouse accepted it. Now the program has been 
expanded to permit transferability to children, but much more 
experience is needed before anyone can positively say that this benefit 
would have the desired impact on retention.

Finally, I want to say a few words to those who are concerned about 
the cost of the program. I have long said caring for veterans is a 
continuing cost of war. This Nation will be paying for the conflicts in 
Iraq and Afghanistan for many years. The cost of this program is a very 
small portion of the total funds that have already been spent and will 
continue to be incurred in the future. As others have pointed out, this 
program would be an extremely small percentage of what these conflicts 
are costing us each day.

I have worked very closely with Senator Webb in developing this 
legislation. I take this opportunity to thank both Senator Webb and his 
staff, especially Phillip Thompson and William Edwards, for their 
cooperation and collaboration. I also thank Senator Johnson and 
Appropriations Committee staff, Chad Schulken, as well as Senator Hagel 
and his staff member, Sarah Pullen for their cooperation and 
assistance.

I believe that what the Appropriations Committee has reported, and 
that will be before us later this week, is a workable and effective 
proposal and I urge my colleagues to support it and the President to 
sign it into law.

It is time for a new GI bill for the 21st century.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.