# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `dbad59391f0ce81f361fd55c959f5ab9`
`Ms. COLLINS — 4 September 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I rise in support of the nomination of 
Congressman Jim Nussle to serve as the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget.

The Congressman served his Iowa district in the House through eight 
Congresses, chairing the House Budget Committee for the last three. 
During that time and in his testimony before both the Budget Committee 
and the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, the 
Congressman demonstrated an encyclopedic grasp of the Federal budget, 
skill in the legislative process, and an understanding of the 
importance of good relationships between the executive branch and 
Congress.

A spirit of cooperation has seldom been so needed as it is right now. 
Much unfinished work on the appropriations bills awaits us. Before the 
end of next year, the work of transitioning to a new administration 
will begin. Regardless of which party occupies the White House, America 
will have moved steadily closer to a looming fiscal crisis as baby boom 
demographics collide with unfunded entitlement obligations. Devising a 
fiscal policy that will honor our commitments and meet vital needs 
without throttling economic growth will be a huge challenge for the 
Federal Government. I believe Congressman Nussle can help us meet that 
challenge. With his blend of knowledge, experience, and personal 
engagement--he told our committee in July: ''I love the budget''--
Congressman Nussle can help us define issues, illuminate choices, and 
debate decisions. His endorsements by Senator Tom Harkin and by House 
Democratic Budget Committee Chairman Spratt, as well as the 
overwhelming votes he received from both the Budget Committee and the 
Homeland Security Committee, demonstrate a bipartisan consensus for 
this nominee.

As the Presiding Officer understands better than many people, 
budgets, of course, are not the only concern of the Office of 
Management and Budget. OMB also assists the President in developing and 
executing policies and programs. In particular, OMB is involved with 
legislative, regulatory, procurement, e-government, and management 
issues. It is not only a locus of authority within the executive branch 
but also a critical interface between the President and Congress, 
helping to set direction for the mechanisms of Government.

As Director of OMB, Congressman Nussle would have great influence on 
a number of important policy issues aside from helping to formulate and 
present the President's budget.

One of these critical issues is the amount of waste and the lack of 
effective oversight in Federal contracting. The committee which I was 
privileged to chair and now am the ranking member of, with Senator 
Lieberman as our chairman, held extensive hearings last year on the 
disaster responses on the gulf coast and also on contracting operations 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. We found the problems of waste, fraud, and 
abuse in Federal contracting are enormous. Here are just a few 
examples:

We found that trailers bought to shelter disaster victims following 
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita were undeployable in the areas where they 
were most needed.

We found repeated pipeline-laying attempts in Iraq used techniques 
unsuited to the terrain. We found problems in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
such as $2.3 million in contracts for the Babylon Police Academy in 
Iraq which was spent unnecessarily or without proper accounting and 
schools built in Afghanistan that collapsed under the weight of the 
first snow.

Unfortunately, the examples of poor process and outrageous outcomes 
in our contracting system are legion, and they are not confined to 
disaster response or operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. That is why 
several of us on the committee--Senators Lieberman, Akaka, Carper, 
Coleman, McCaskill and I--have joined in authoring legislation to 
improve our procurement system to obtain better value for taxpayers' 
dollars. I am hopeful our legislation, which was reported favorably by 
the committee on August 1, will soon be taken up by the full Senate. It 
would increase competition, transparency, and accountability in 
Government contracting and address the critical shortage of qualified 
Government procurement personnel.

This issue is obviously a high priority for me, and I am encouraged 
by the Congressman's responses to my questions. They demonstrate his 
commitment to working to resolve the concerns many of us have about 
wasteful spending in Government contracting.

He spoke of ''a broad range of issues that are in need of careful 
attention, including enhancing competition, strengthening the 
workforce, and improving transparency and accountability.'' I view this 
response by Congressman Nussle as an encouraging sign of a shared 
viewpoint on the need to improve performance in an area that accounts 
for more than $400 billion a year in spending.

I was, however, less heartened by Congressman Nussle's responses to 
questions about the Department of Homeland Security's grants for State 
and local programs, for assistance to firefighters, and for emergency 
management performance. These programs face great cuts under the budget 
proposed by the administration. Fortunately, we have acted to reject 
some of those proposed cuts and to respond in a more appropriate way.

The DHS defense of these proposed cuts noted that substantial 
unexpended funds from prior years are still ''in the pipeline.'' 
Congressman Nussle appears to share the DHS view that this factor 
mitigates proposed budget cuts. As the National Governors Association 
has pointed out, however, planning and coordination to deal with new 
grants and the procurement process all take time, so that not every 
granted dollar can be swiftly committed. The Governors further note 
that States are, in fact, meeting statutory deadlines for obligating 
and expending funds.

Homeland security grants are a critical factor in strengthening the 
Nation's security. These funds allow States and localities to fund 
planning, equipment, training, and exercises to prevent terrorist 
attacks; support intelligence gathering and information sharing through 
fusion centers; establish interoperable communications systems; prepare 
for mass-casualty incidents; and expand citizen involvement in all-
hazards emergency preparedness.

I would encourage the Congressman, should he be confirmed--and I hope 
he will be--to reexamine the facts and figures on homeland security 
grants, particularly as we move into a new budget cycle for fiscal year 
2008. States and communities must receive adequate assistance to 
conduct their critical roles in helping to prevent terrorist attacks 
and respond to emergencies of all types.

Turning from budget to management issues, I was also interested in 
Congressman Nussle's views on Federal agency performance as measured by 
the President's Management Scorecard. For most agencies, the weak spot 
is financial management. Indeed, poor financial management hobbles 
overall planning, management efforts, and the wise use of taxpayers' 
dollars in far too many agencies. At a time when making good use of 
every tax dollar is critical, it is simply intolerable for any agency 
to be unable to track how, when, for what purpose, and with what result 
it spends the taxpayers' money.

In March of 2007, the OMB scorecard showed that 14 of 26 agencies 
received unsatisfactory marks in financial performance. But here is 
what is perhaps


most ironic and most troubling: OMB itself, to my dismay, had the worst 
ratings of any agency surveyed, receiving unsatisfactory scores in four 
out of five areas.

While noting various agencies' improvements in issuing timely 
financial statements, reducing auditor-identified weaknesses, and 
obtaining clean audit opinions, Congressman Nussle told us, ''We should 
not be satisfied if any Federal agency has unsatisfactory financial 
performance.'' Indeed, we shall not.

I would note that Congressman Nussle told our committee that he 
considers OMB's management-scorecard rankings as ''unacceptably low'' 
and he has pledged to work to improve them as Director of OMB. I 
welcome that commitment, not simply because OMB should stand as an 
example to other executive branch agencies but also because its 
critical work with those agencies and with Congress demands high levels 
of efficiency and effectiveness.

Madam President, I conclude by saying that the Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs Committee did an in-depth review of the 
Congressman's qualifications and experience and background for this 
important position. We grilled him on a whole range of issues: on 
matters ranging from pay-go principles and the alternative minimum tax 
to low-income heating assistance, to an issue of particular concern to 
my constituents, and that is the funding of Navy shipbuilding. While 
many policy disagreements will naturally arise in any such discussion, 
I believe there was broad agreement within our committee that 
Congressman Nussle has demonstrated, both in his long service in the 
House and in the nomination process, that he is well informed on the 
issues, highly qualified for the position, alert to other points of 
view, and will work closely with Congress as we tackle the enormous 
fiscal challenges facing this Nation.

I believe Congressman Nussle would be an effective Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget, and I urge my colleagues to support 
his nomination.

Thank you, Madam President.