---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `dbbb2e788c86992d9932303d30fa54b4`
`Mr. DODD — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for the 
confirmation of General George Casey to become the next Chief of Staff 
of the U.S. Army.

Let us be clear. Our soldiers are fighting a grueling and dangerous 
war. They need to know that their leaders will have no higher priority 
than their safety and well-being. I believe that General Casey will do 
just that.

He has been on the frontlines of the war in Iraq. As commander of 
U.S. forces there, he has overseen operations on the ground; he 
understands our soldiers' basic needs and will take action to keep them 
fighting safely and effectively.

I believe that in this new position, like GEN Peter Schoomaker before 
him, he will work hard to ensure that our soldiers have the equipment 
and support they need to get the job done.

Regrettably, I am concerned that some in this administration and in 
this Congress have decided to blame General Casey for the worsening 
situation on the ground. To them I would say that it is simply wrong, 
and frankly un-American, to hold one soldier responsible for the 
administration's policy failures in Iraq.

In his book, ''Deriliction of Duty,'' H.R. McMasters put the blame 
for Vietnam on our military leaders. To McMasters, it was our generals 
who were at fault for not speaking out when they disagreed with the 
civilians at the Pentagon and White House.

As a result of their silence, America became further entrenched in 
Vietnam. Nine years ago, then-Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff GEN 
Hugh Shelton took this message to heart; requiring all 17 four-star 
general commanders to read Major McMasters' book. The book had an 
impact. As the situation in Iraq has deteriorated, we have seen our 
generals stand up to civilian leaders--putting their country before 
their careers--and courageously advocating for alternative, more 
sensible policies.



Unfortunately, the same arrogance and incompetence that has blinded 
U.S. foreign policy for the past 6 years has also allowed the dire 
warnings from these generals to fall on deaf ears. The candor from the 
likes of Generals Shinseki and Riggs, and now Abizaid, Casey, and 
Schoomaker, has been rewarded with dismissal, transfer or demotion.

In my private meeting with General Casey in Iraq 2 months ago, he 
explained his concern over proposals to ''surge'' additional troops 
into Iraq if Iraqis are unable to meet their own responsibilities to 
unite politically and contribute more meaningfully to their own 
security.

He echoed these objections along with then-Central Command's top 
general, GEN John Abizaid, in a Washington Post report on December 21, 
2006.

Obviously, General Casey is uniquely qualified to make these 
statements. He has been thoroughly immersed in our Iraq operations. And 
it is for this reason that he is uniquely prepared to assume the Army 
Chief of Staff post.

But there is another quality of his that I believe will also serve 
our Nation and our Army well during his tenure as Chief of Staff. It 
his is loyalty to our soldiers--from the newly enlisted private to the 
career officer.

I observed this quality firsthand 3 years ago on a visit to Walter 
Reed Medical Center. I met with soldiers recuperating from injuries 
they had suffered in Iraq and Afghanistan, and expressed my gratitude 
for their brave service.

General Casey happened to be at Walter Reed that day as well. I knew 
he was there for the same reason I was: to thank these soldiers for 
their service and to assure them that their sacrifices will never be 
forgotten.

The Chief of Staff must constantly exhibit such loyalty to his 
troops. He must be their strongest advocate and continue to address 
their needs, even when doing so is in direct conflict with the orders 
being handed down from civilian leadership. General Schoomaker, the 
outgoing Chief of Staff, has been faced with this situation time and 
again as the administration proposed inadequate budgets to carry out 
their deeply flawed Iraq strategy. And he has performed superbly.

As Chief of Staff for the last few years, General Schoomaker, has 
long voiced concern that the administration failed to budget for the 
replacement and repair of thousands of war-battered trucks, aircraft, 
and vehicles. In fact, it was General Schoomaker's testimony last year 
that compelled me to offer an amendment to fund these priorities and 
help begin restoring Army readiness. I regret that the White House 
decided to reward General Schoomaker's candor by replacing him at the 
Pentagon.

At his recent confirmation hearing the other day, I was pleased to 
hear that General Casey will resume General Schoomaker's mission to 
ensure that our forces are outfitted with the equipment they need to 
get the job done.

Mr. President, there are no easy answers in Iraq. But, when it comes 
to discerning tactics on the ground, our civilian leaders must defer to 
our generals. In this case, it is my sincere hope that the President 
takes heed of the advice of his newly installed Army Chief of Staff, to 
make the safety and well-being of our soldiers a top priority and not 
an afterthought. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
nominee for confirmation.