# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `dbd5ed64bdb957cc9dea19d548ab1955`
`Mr. HUNTER — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, thank you. I want to thank my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle for their decorum during this debate and for 
their true interest and their motivation in support of our troops.

We all want to conclude this war. We all want to do everything that 
we can for military families. We simply have a difference of opinion as 
to whether or not mandating certain rest periods before a soldier or a 
marine can go back to battle is in the interest of the war fighting 
troops.

My answer is, it's not in the interest. It will not raise their 
morale. What it will do is it will deprive our war fighting troops. It 
will deprive that corporal, it will deprive that squad in Fallujah or 
Baghdad or up in Mosul. That experienced old hand, that NCO, who is in 
the military for a career, and who knows that particular area, and he 
knows how to avoid roadside bombs, and he knows how to interrogate 
insurgents, and he knows how to approach a certain canyon so that you 
don't expose yourself to fire. He won't be there if the gentlelady's 
motion passes, because he will only have spent 6 months instead of 7 
months back at Camp Pendleton, and he won't be available to move to the 
field of battle.

Now, you know, this is a war of specialties, and I notice that one 
thing that the majority did, which I think was a good move, was that 
they excluded the special operations forces from this particular law. 
The reason they excluded them is because they are special operations 
forces who have to move back and forth in the theater and have to move 
out of the theater on a regular basis, sometimes going back and forth 
between Afghanistan and Iraq, because they have specialties which mean 
life or death to our war fighters in both of those theaters, and they 
can't be held back, chained back by this law.

I have got news for my colleagues. There are a lot of people in the 
regular forces whose presence also means life or death to the 
combatants in those forces. You have to have experience.

Even the line units are full of specialties. If you have a person who 
is an expert in roadside bombs, and he comes back after a 7-month tour, 
if he is a marine, or after a 1-year tour, if he is an Army soldier, he 
comes back and he gets the latest schooling on a jamming device that 
will keep that 152 round from blowing up, that roadside bomb, and 
destroying a Humvee and destroying American soldiers.

He has that capability. But he now cannot go back into theater 
because the Tauscher amendment has passed, and he can't be deployed. So 
he stays here with that particular insight, that particular capability, 
and probably the Marines or the Army will rush a team in. They will try 
to give them a fast learning period and rush them in, to be a poor 
substitute for this guy who really has the expertise of telling our 
people how to jam those signals that detonate those deadly roadside 
bombs.

Now, what if we need decontamination, we have got a decontamination 
team in the regular military. They can't go over unless they get a 
waiver from the President.

Well, it was argued that these waivers will be easy to get. But you 
know the Marines have told us that they can't plan for a waiver, 
because they can only follow along. The law will say you can't go.

I have got a picture that I have kept in the Armed Services Committee 
for a


long time, as the former chairman of the committee, and now ranking 
member, serving alongside my great friend, Mr. Skelton.



It is a picture of a 5-ton truck that was struck by a Humvee with a 
particular armor equipment and an armor package that this committee 
sent those soldiers. And there is a letter attached to it and it is a 
letter of thanks that says, ''Thanks to you on the Armed Services 
Committee for making sure that we got this armor.'' And this was after 
this 5-ton truck has been blown up. And it said, ''We owe our lives, 
the fact that all eight of us were able to escape, to you on the Armed 
Services Committee,'' but it also says, ''to our gunnery sergeant.'' 
That gunnery sergeant that had the capability, that had that certain 
expertise of being able to do what it took to make sure that all eight 
of his people survived.

Mrs. Tauscher has said, who do you stand with, the big Pentagon 
planners or the troops?

The worst thing you can do, Mrs. Tauscher, for my son who is on his 
third deployment, or anybody else's son, is to take away that gunnery 
sergeant or that senior NCO or that expert who can stand by their side 
and help them to survive in this very dangerous warfighting theater.

Please vote for this motion to recommit. This motion to recommit says 
that you cannot make this law certain unless you----