---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `dbd82ab92c12a78d0e713c355bd41c7b`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, as we take up the final war supplemental 
of the Bush administration, the Bush legacy in Iraq is clear: a 
President who misled America, needlessly put our troops in harm's way, 
and threw billion of dollars of good money after bad.

Five years ago, I spoke out and voted against the invasion of lraq. 
From that time I have opposed the open-ended funding and escalation of 
this terrible conflict, while the President has committed us to a 
growing military tragedy, foreign policy nightmare, and, increasingly, 
humanitarian crisis. I continue to believe that the best way to honor 
those whose lives have been lost in this tragic war is to end it 
quickly and responsibly.

It is a constant source of frustration that Congress has been unable 
to substantially curb our involvement in Iraq. Though this bellicose 
President may be content to wage a war and then leave the aftermath to 
his successor, Congress should know better. It is the men and women 
from our districts--whose names and faces we know--that are wounded and 
dying in Iraq. I cannot support the war funding amendment. It is 
fundamentally flawed, providing no requirements for withdrawal.

However, I am pleased that the second amendment provides almost $700 
million in refugee assistance. Iraq has claimed the lives of thousands 
of Americans, and the Iraqi civilian death toll is several times that. 
George Bush famously proclaimed he would be no ''nation-builder.'' This 
has been sadly true for the 4.5 million Iraqis forced from their homes 
since the U.S. invasion. Tomorrow, June 20, is World Refugee Day, and I 
am pleased to see that this second amendment does more for Iraq's 2.5 
million refugees and 2 million internally displaced persons.

I am also pleased that the amendment includes responsible domestic 
items such as the significant expansion of ''GI Bill'' education 
benefits, the protection of Medicaid from harmful cuts, an extension of 
unemployment benefits, and funding for domestic disaster relief, all 
necessary in our unsteady economy.

I am proud today to cast votes in support of our troops--by voting 
against unconditional war funding and this President's reckless war, 
and by voting for educational benefits and responsible international 
and domestic priorities.