---
---

# GI BILL OF RIGHTS
## `dbda7cc99666c10bdbeb6cc145e459f3`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, earlier today, on the floor of the 
Senate, we heard distinguished colleagues from both sides of the aisle 
supporting an effort that we pass a new GI bill of rights for the 21st 
century.

We heard the distinguished junior Senator from Virginia, Jim Webb, 
who with his own hand, took it upon himself to author a piece of 
legislation that would make sure we as a nation


kept our promises to those who have served since 9/11 by providing them 
the kind of educational opportunity that was provided to those who 
served in World War II.

In that effort, as I presided over this Senate floor, I heard the 
very eloquent comments of Senator Chuck Hagel, himself a great servant 
of this country and a great Senator, in support of the legislation by 
Senator Webb. During the same time, we heard the comments from Senator 
Warner, one of the most eloquent and distinguished Members to ever 
serve in the Senate.

So I come to the floor today to once again say all of the sponsors of 
that legislation send a loud and unmistakable signal to everyone who 
has a say in this emergency supplemental that at the end of the day we 
must make sure this 21st century GI bill of rights is one that is 
included in this emergency supplemental that deals with Iraq and 
Afghanistan so that we, in fact, can honor our veterans who have served 
since 9/11.

We can do no less as a nation. We can do no less when we think about 
the great sacrifice of the now 1.6 million men and women who served in 
Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom.

When we think about those who have served, we must first stop and pay 
tribute and honor to those who have given their lives as the ultimate 
sacrifice on behalf of their country, as well as those who have been 
wounded and hurt in those wars.

In Iraq, the current number I have as of today, 4,078 Americans have 
been killed in that war--a war that is now in its sixth year.

When the invasion occurred, there were predictions at the top of the 
Pentagon that this war would, at most, take 50 American lives. Somehow 
now we have surpassed the 4,000 number with 4,078 of our bravest men 
and women who have given their lives in Iraq.

It does not count the number of others who have been scarred either 
physically or mentally in that war as well. Those who have been wounded 
with physical scars, according to the current numbers we have from the 
Department of Defense, now exceeds 30,000 of our best.

For many of us in the Senate, as we have gone to Walter Reed or to 
other hospitals of the Department of Defense or veterans hospitals, we 
see the reality of what has happened to many of those who have come 
back without limbs and with other kinds of injuries that will stay with 
them the rest of their lives.

We do not have a firm count with respect to the other 1.6 million who 
have served there as to how many of them have suffered the mental scars 
of war. We know there are some estimates that it is as high as 20, 25 
percent of them who will suffer from some form of post-traumatic stress 
syndrome.

So the number we are talking about who have borne the burden of this 
war in Iraq, as well as the war in Afghanistan, is a number we should 
never forget. It is not just in Iraq but also in Afghanistan. We now 
have a casualty list which includes 497 Americans. We have about 2,000 
who have been physically wounded and many more who suffer the mental 
scars of war.

When I think about what we are trying to do with this 21st century GI 
bill of rights for those who have served since 9/11, the thing I find 
most objectionable is that some of those on the other side and others 
who would oppose this legislation say it is too costly, that we ought 
not to undertake it because it is too costly.

In the context of what we have spent in Iraq and will be spending in 
Iraq, it is a very small amount of money to make sure we are taking 
care of our veterans once they return home. In Iraq, the total number, 
as of today, that has been spent on that war is $525 billion--$525 
billion. Secretary Rumsfeld, at one point in time, said no way, no how 
will we ever spend $50 billion on this war. Yet somehow, today, some 6 
years later, it is $525 billion plus that has been spent on the war.

When you consider the expenditures the United States is projected to 
make to bring this war to conclusion, some estimates out there are $3 
trillion--$3 trillion--what we are trying to do with this 21st century 
GI bill of rights is simply to provide an opportunity for those who 
have served since 9/11 to get an opportunity for an education at a cost 
that would be $2.5 billion to $4 billion a year.

When we consider the fact we are burning $12 billion a month in Iraq 
today, to provide this benefit to our veterans at a cost of $2.5 
billion to $4 billion a year is a very worthy investment, and in the 
relative context of how much is being invested in that war effort, it 
is a very small amount.

I would hope at the end of the day it is not only 60 Senators who 
vote yes to include this 21st century GI bill of rights in this 
emergency supplemental, but that we could get a unanimous approval out 
of this Senate that this is the thing we should do because it is the 
right thing to make sure we are taking care of those who have served us 
since 9/11.

Again, I appreciate the great leadership of our good friend, Jim 
Webb, who has worked so hard to bring together so many cosponsors of 
this legislation both here in the Senate, as well as the House of 
Representatives. I urge my colleagues to fully support this legislation 
as it moves forward.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.