---
---

# DESIGNATING CERTAIN LAND COMPONENTS OF THE NATIONAL WILDERNESS  PRESERVATION SYSTEM--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `dbf4d27856d7e0e1c4d69b3741629271`
`Mr. SPECTER — 12 January 2009`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I have sought recognition to speak 
briefly about foreign travel which I undertook over the past recess, 
focusing principally on the Mideast and on Europe.

My group arrived in Jerusalem on December 26, late in the evening on 
Friday. The next day, the hostilities arose in Gaza. I had an occasion 
to discuss this matter with a number of officials in Israel and also 
with Prime Minister Fayyad of the Palestinian Authority.

As is well known from the news reports, the Israeli action was taken 
in response to shelling by Hamas on Israel over a protracted period of 
time. Israel's action was legal under international law, Article 51 of 
the United Nations charter which expressly recognizes the right of 
self-defense under circumstances where a nation is attacked. And that 
was the factual matter there. In speaking to Israeli President Peres 
and Israeli Prime Minister Olmert, the point was made that Israel was 
taking this action only as a last resort to protect Israeli citizens.

It is highly significant that the Palestinian Authority, which has 
had its differences with Hamas, has backed the Israeli position. We had 
a discussion with Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Fayyad, who said 
that the Palestinian Authority was convinced that Israel had acted 
properly and that the Palestinian Authority would do what it could to 
maintain quiet within the Palestinian Authority's jurisdiction in the 
face of any demonstrations which might occur.

It is worth noting that Egypt has backed the Israeli action, noting 
the aggressive stand taken by Hamas, and Saudi Arabia, too, has noted 
Hamas's inappropriate conduct.

We visited in Vienna with Ambassador Schulte and discussed at some 
length the International Atomic Energy Agency efforts to conduct 
inspections on what is going on in Iran with respect to any efforts by 
Iran to create a nuclear weapon.

A year ago, I had an opportunity to meet with IAEA Director Mohamed 
ElBaradei. He was out of town when we were there. I had a conversation 
with him by telephone on the issue of the efforts by the IAEA to 
conduct the inspections and that at the moment Iran is not cooperating 
and, further, international action needs to be taken to be sure Iran 
does meet its obligations under international agreements and that there 
are adequate safeguards to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear 
weapon.

When we were in Syria, Iran's activities on that subject were 
discussed with Syrian President Bashar al-Asad. On the Iranian subject, 
President Asad urged that action be taken to try to get the 
inspections, and that would be a more productive line than challenging 
whatever rights Iran had asserted.

In our discussions with President Asad, the subject of a potential 
Israel-Syria peace treaty was discussed. The Syrians have made it plain 
that they are interested in a return of the Golan Heights. Only Israel 
can decide for itself whether it is willing to give up the Golan with 
respect to whatever strategic advantage the Golan may have. Obviously, 
it is a different world strategically today than it was in 1967 when 
Israel captured the Golan Heights.

It is my view that there could be substantial advantages for Israel 
in terms of Syrian concessions in a number of directions to leave 
Lebanon as a sovereign nation without efforts to destabilize Lebanon 
but withdrawing any Syrian support from Hezbollah and also from Hamas. 
When we discussed with President Asad the issue of Hezbollah and Hamas, 
he said if the Palestinian issue could be resolved, those other matters 
would fall into place.

There is also the potential advantage of trying to move Syria away 
from the influence of Iran. That is not an easy matter. But if there 
were to be an Israeli-Syrian peace treaty--and I think that can happen 
only with the participation of the United States--the prospect would be 
present of improving that situation of trying to separate Syria from 
Iran.

In Brussels, we had a meeting with General Craddock, who is the NATO 
commander there. We discussed a variety of subjects, as described in a 
more extensive report that I will ask to have printed in the Record.

With respect to our discussions with General Craddock, the key point 
was the issue of what is going on in Afghanistan. General Craddock made 
the point that there cannot be a military victory in Afghanistan but 
the military can be successful in securing the situation, that there 
will have to be improvements in the Afghanistan Government in dealing 
with the people of Afghanistan. General Craddock commented that he 
thought it would be a protracted period of time where we would have to 
have substantial NATO forces, in addition to those provided by the 
United States, to find a resolution of the issues in Afghanistan.

I was accompanied on my trip by my legislative director, Chris 
Bradish, my military escort, Phil Skuta, and by Dr. Ronald Smith, all 
of whom did an excellent job. A very comprehensive trip report has been 
prepared by Mr. Bradish. I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the 
Record, as if stated in full on the floor, the trip report.