---
---

# None
## `dc0fb9bc63fb1f463985062d75fab8a6`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. You know what I have heard? Do you know what I have 
heard from folks around the Capitol, people who don't make a lot of 
between, $100,000, between $50,000 and $100,000. Do you know what I 
heard them say? I don't mind paying taxes. But if I am going to pay 
taxes don't give it to the oil companies and corporate welfare. If I am 
going to pay taxes out of the $50,000 I make a year, living in D.C., 
very expensive town, don't spend $2 billion of it a week in Iraq. I 
don't mind paying, but if I am going to pay, give it to the poor kids 
who need health care. Make college more affordable. Make investments in 
our economy. You know, I think most people recognize they have got to 
pay their own fair share. But what they get frustrated about is where 
it goes.

Now, are you telling me Halliburton is going to get billions and 
billions and billions of dollars out of a guy or a woman who makes 
$50,000 a year, who is paying those taxes? And then that same company 
moves off, out of the country? No respect for anything. But I want to 
make a point here as we begin the wind down.

Mr. Speaker, many people have made comments on this floor over the 
past several hours that our budget somehow raises taxes on the American 
people.

Now, we are big on third-party validators here. I am going to give 
you three, this is the Hamilton project at the Brookings Institution. 
''The budget would not raise taxes.''
