---
---

# None
## `dc1016a92fa9679475efd9d052622ca2`
`Mr. BACA — 2 November 2009`

---


Mr. BACA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 89, the Veterans 
Day resolution.

I thank Chairman Bob Filner and Ranking Member Steve Buyer for their 
commitment to this resolution and tremendous support for America's 
veterans.

As one of many veterans who are now Members of Congress, I am proud 
to introduce and now seek the passage of this important resolution.

To all my colleagues and fellow veterans, I commend you for your 
service.

This resolution reminds us that Veterans Day is not just a day off 
from school or work. This is a special day of reflection to honor those 
that have defended our freedom.

America would not be the great country that she is, if it were not 
for our veterans.

When our troops commit to serve our country, they make a promise to 
serve and protect.

We also have a moral responsibility to protect returning veterans and 
their families.

Veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan must receive the best 
treatment. Sadly, for the last few years, I don't believe our 
Government has held its end of the bargain.

But Congress is working diligently to correct this, most recently by 
implementing an outstanding GI bill and for adding more support 
services to veterans and their families.

We all must do our part to recognize America's greatest heroes.

This is why my resolution also encourages schools to educate our 
young people about the contributions of our veterans to this country.

Last Congress, as Chair of the CHC, I worked closely with Hispanic 
veterans and Medal of Honor winners from WWII to today.

The stories of courage and sacrifice I heard from them were nothing 
short of amazing. They deserve to be recognized and thanked.

A special thanks is due to our military families who are often left 
behind and face the daily rigors of war within their homes in America 
and overseas.

These families sacrifice so much for their loved ones and for 
America. I thank you as well; you are the support system and backbone 
for all these veterans.

On November 11th, on Veterans Day do not forget who the true heroes 
of this country are. Reflect on the true meaning of Veterans Day, and 
remember the sacrifices made by so many proud American sons and 
daughters.

I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of H. Res. 89.