---
---

# PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE BILL VETO
## `dc39b48c63ceebe28ba251a583034b0d`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Well, anyone who listens tonight, Madam 
Speaker, to the gentleman's accounts is horrified. And I think to put 
it into context, make no mistake about it, what happened today in the 
signing of the Department of Defense authorization bill with these 
provisions taken out to allow recourse on this is, it is pretty 
difficult for me to see any way that a decision was made to side with 
the monsters who carried out this torture and not with those brave 
Americans who went at this country's call, did our bidding, and then 
came home to the so-called open arms. And as the gentleman said, having 
spent 24 years in the National Guard, having trained countless 
soldiers, many, as you said, served in my unit. I taught them in 
school. I coached them on the football field. One of the things that 
was very clear in part of our training, because, of course, it held to 
those core values of being an American, was the respect for the Geneva 
Convention.

The Geneva Convention did several very important things. As I said, 
it upheld those principles of, even in a conflict situation, that the 
humanity and the humane treatment of other individuals was absolutely 
paramount to keeping with the ideals of this Nation. There was also 
something else very, very important with the Geneva Convention that 
many of us as soldiers always came to rely upon is knowing that if you 
adhere to these things, that if other combatants, the enemy you were 
fighting understood that, one of the things you could do was you could 
convince people that it might be better to give up the fight. It might 
be better because you know you will be treated humanely. And there was 
always great comfort, because it is not the fear of injury, it is not 
the fear of battle which is there amongst all these soldiers, it is the 
fear of capture and torture and saying something that may hurt your 
fellow soldiers that has everyone terrified.


So the idea is that the Geneva Convention was held in the highest 
esteem. The principles that it was set by were there to make sure that 
even at the base emotions of war amongst human beings that there was a 
respect for basic human life. There was a respect when someone was 
unarmed and unable to fight, that when someone was captured, they would 
be treated as humanely as possible. And with that being pulled back, I 
have to tell you, it terrifies me.

And these forgotten warriors are forgotten because they happen to be 
an inconvenience now. They happen to be an inconvenience to a political 
ideology. They happen to be an inconvenience because this 
administration doesn't want to follow the Geneva Convention. This 
administration, I believe, and members of this administration have 
called it a quaint, outdated notion that is no longer there. I would 
argue that soldiers don't see it that way. Soldiers see it as a 
necessity.

And for many of us, as my colleague has pointed out, it is hard to 
fathom that an administration that has talked so much about our 
soldiers would so callously brush aside 17, in this society, 17 
warriors held in the highest esteem as a prisoner of war for their 
Nation and to cast them aside and cut their rights off to any type of 
recourse. And I can't help but see a pattern here of where the 
administration's loyalties lie. As Americans are struggling, and we 
hear about it every day, the economic crisis, they are struggling to 
make ends meet, and they see $102 a barrel oil. But I don't know where 
that is able to be rectified in their mind when they see the President 
walking hand in hand with the Saudi Prince and knowing that every bit 
of that $102 is going into the pockets of the Saudi Princes, going into 
nations and going into, in this case, a regime that committed the 
grievous atrocities against our soldiers and was totally absolved down 
on Pennsylvania Avenue against the wishes of the 100 elected Senators, 
against the wishes of the 435 elected Members of this body. And yet 
tonight, several of us stand here. And I think the outrage and the 
passion that my colleague from Iowa has shown should be reassuring to 
the American public that there is a voice there. There is a voice in 
the wilderness. There is a voice that says this is wrong. This is a 
wrong that should not be allowed to stand. This is a wrong that I think 
they want to see, my colleague from Iowa, myself and our colleagues 
here, stand and speak for what is right.

So again, I can only come to the conclusion, and I ask my colleague 
if he can find another way of seeing this, what was the benefit of the 
administration's decision to side with the Hussein regime over U.S. 
POWs who were tortured? I am still trying to find where there is 
justification. It doesn't go back to ''we can't hamper the Iraqi from 
rebuilding,'' because they are not doing that as it is. It can't go 
back to any precedence. It is in violation of the Geneva Convention, 
and it flies in the face, as my colleague said, of our basic principles 
of our Constitution. So I am trying to figure how we would be able to 
sell this to the American public.