---
---

# TRIBUTE TO THE LIFE OF MARINE SGT. JAY M. HOSKINS
## `dc49c33f23174ef025b2fc86b43657b7`
`Mr. HALL of Texas — 1 December 2009`

---


Mr. HALL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the 
life of United States Marine Sergeant Jay Michael Hoskins of Paris, TX, 
who died August 6, 2009 at the age of 24 in Farah Province, 
Afghanistan, due to complications from wounds received when his vehicle 
was hit by a roadside bomb.

Born January 26, 1985 in Paris, Texas to Michelle Sparks-Hoskins and 
Danny Hoskins, Jay Hoskins attended Aaron Parker Elementary, graduating 
from North Lamar High School in 2003. Throughout his youth, Sergeant 
Hoskins was active in baseball and football, and was an active member 
at Gospel Lighthouse in Powderly, Texas.

Following his graduation from North Lamar High School, Mr. Hoskins 
joined the United States Marine Corps, graduating from boot camp in San 
Diego, CA, as a Private 1st Class. In 2004, Sgt. Hoskins was deployed 
to Iraq where he fought in the Battle of Fallujah with the 1st 
Battalion, 3rd Marine Regiment. In 2005, he served seven months in the 
Tora Bora area in the Afghanistan mountains, for which he received the 
first of his Afghanistan Campaign medals. From 2005 to 2008, Sgt. 
Hoskins served as a member of a training cadre in infantry tactics for 
Marine Officers at Marine Corps Base, Quantico, VA, where he was able 
to employ his background as a martial arts black belt instructor. In 
2009, Sgt. Hoskins was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 3rd Marine 
Regiment III Marine Expeditionary Force, based out of Marine Corps 
Base, Kaneohe Bay, HI. He was deployed to Afghanistan in May, along 
with 1,000 other Marines to Helmand and Farah Provinces.



Sergeant Hoskins received many awards during his service as a United 
States Marine, including three combat ribbons, three sea service 
deployment ribbons, an Iraqi Campaign Medal, a Navy Marine Corps 
Achievement medal, a National Defense Service Medal, a Global War on 
Terror Service medal, a Good Conduct medal, and a Purple Heart, along 
with other pending medals, as well as rifle and pistol expert badges.

Known as an unwavering Christian devoted to his wife, his children, 
his family, and his country, Sergeant Hoskins lived his life with 
strong moral character, a strong faith, and a strong sense of service. 
He was loved and respected by those that knew him, and he will not be 
forgotten.

Sergeant Hoskins is survived by his wife Chandler McRae Hoskins of 
Paris, Texas, their son Tristen, and a second child due in January; his 
mother, Michelle Sparks Widner and step-father, Chris Widner; his 
father, Danny Hoskins; two sisters, Amber Young and Chelsie Hoskins; a 
brother, Cameron Widner; along with many aunts, uncles, nieces, 
nephews, and cousins.

Let us all continue to support our troops, and remember that freedom 
does come at a price. Madam Speaker, I ask those here today to join me 
in paying tribute to this American patriot, United States Marine 
Sergeant Jay Michael Hoskins.
