---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `dc605bed3561d298d525ddff385902cf`
`Mr. FARR — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. FARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today for this opportunity to speak 
as an original cosponsor of this bill on what I believe is the foremost 
foreign policy issue facing the United States today. There is perhaps 
no more important matter on the table right now than Afghanistan, not 
least because every dollar we spend abroad for war is a dollar of 
investment lost to all of our communities here at home.

We have spent more than $250 billion fighting and occupying 
Afghanistan. President Obama is now implementing his plan to send an 
additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan, which will cost another $33 
billion. This is an enormous amount of money, and the security gains 
are dubious when there are more al Qaeda in other parts of the globe.

So long as the United States has a major military presence in 
Afghanistan, long-term stability will continue to be a goal just out of 
our reach. More troops are not the answer.

We need to turn the corner. We must rebuild. We must build a 
governing capacity among the Afghans, not military fighting capacity. 
As long as Afghanistan is able to depend exclusively on the United 
States for stability, the longer they will continue to do so. The 
quicker we prepare for transfer authority to the Afghans, the sooner we 
will be able to leave the country.

Over a year ago, President Obama announced his strategy to disrupt, 
dismantle, and defeat al Qaeda in its safe havens of Afghanistan and 
Pakistan. I made clear that I would not rubber-stamp his strategy for 
more troops. The only way we can solve this mess is to put in place a 
regional strategy with international buy-in. That strategy must include 
a strong civilian component capable of achieving diplomatic and 
development objectives, as well as security goals.

I was distressed to read several months ago that Special Envoy 
Richard Holbrooke acknowledged that we had built almost no capacity in 
the Afghan authorities.