---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `dc64998438afa619ad9babc4e6e26183`
`Mr. WOLF — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, last night I testified before the Rules 
Committee asking that the Iraq Study Group report be made in order for 
debate today. The Iraq Study Group offers the way forward, a new 
approach, and is authored by former Secretary of State Baker and former 
chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Lee Hamilton. Yet 
there has been no vote allowed. The American people have been shut out 
with regard to having a vote on the Iraq Study Group report. You cannot 
pick and choose with regard to the Iraq Study Group.

Let me read you some of the comments that have been made by the 
members who served on the Iraq Study Group. Lee Hamilton, Jim Baker: 
''There is no magic formula to solve the problems of Iraq. However, 
there are actions that can be taken to improve the situation.

''Our political leaders must build a bipartisan approach to bring a 
responsible conclusion to what is now a lengthy and costly war. Our 
country deserves a debate that prizes substance over rhetoric, and a 
policy that is adequately funded and sustainable.''

That is the Iraq Study Group. Members on both sides have said they 
support the Iraq Study Group, and yet there is no vote allowed on the 
Iraq Study Group.

''In this consensus report,'' Hamilton and Baker go on to say, ''the 
10 members of the Iraq Study Group,'' bipartisan, five and five, 
''present a new approach because we believe there is a better way 
forward.''

The better way forward, and the gentleman who just spoke mentioned 
the Iraq Study Group, is the Iraq Study Group, and yet the Rules 
Committee last night foreclosed a vote on the Iraq Study Group which is 
bipartisan.

Lee Hamilton, Jim Baker, Leon Panetta, Bill Perry, Ed Meese. Ed 
Meese's son is one of the colonels with General Petraeus. Leon Panetta, 
who served here in the Congress, but yet for some reason the American 
people are not to be given an opportunity whereby their Congress can 
vote on the Iraq Study Group.

There are good people on both sides. Every resolution should be in 
order. God bless you, what you are offering is fine, but give the 
country, give the American people, give us an opportunity to vote on 
the Iraq Study Group. You cannot pick and choose.

I urge a defeat of the resolution and urge that we allow this to be 
voted on whereby we can have a successful policy to bring this country 
together.

Mr. Speaker, I rise against this rule and against the underlying 
resolution.



I've been to Iraq three times since the United States sent Armed 
Forces there. I continue to be deeply concerned about the violence that 
continues to take the lives of U.S. personnel as well as innocent Iraqi 
citizens.

That's why, upon my return from my third trip in 2005, I worked to 
promote an independent, bipartisan review of ongoing operations in 
Iraq--what I called ''fresh eyes on the target. ''

I initiated the legislation authorizing and funding the Iraq Study 
Group, which was set up through the U.S. Institute of Peace. The 10-
member group--5 Republicans and 5 Democrats--was led by cochairs James 
A. Baker III, the Nation's 61st Secretary of State and honorary 
chairman of the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice 
University, and Lee H. Hamilton, our former colleague in this House and 
director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, who 
also cochaired the 9/11 Commission.

The other members of the study group included: Lawrence S. 
Eagleburger, former Secretary of State; Vernon E. Jordan, Jr., former 
advisor to President Clinton; Edwin Meese III, former Attorney General; 
Sandra Day O'Connor, retired Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme 
Court; Leon E. Panetta, former White House chief of staff for President 
Clinton; William J. Perry, former secretary of Defense; Charles S. 
Robb, former Governor and Senator of Virginia, and Alan K. Simpson, 
former Senator from Wyoming.

After more than 8 months of work, the panel presented its report last 
December 6. The Iraq Study Group was a truly bipartisan group who came 
together--like this body should be coming together--and offered the way 
forward in Iraq.

I believe the group's work provides an important framework to move 
forward in Iraq and on January 24 I introduced H. Con. Res. 45, 
expressing the sense of Congress that all the recommendations of the 
Iraq Study Group become the new baseline strategy for dealing with 
Iraq. That's the resolution we should be advancing today.

In my car coming to the Capitol this morning I heard a member of this 
body on a radio interview say he's voting for H. Con. Res. 63 because 
what we're looking for is a new solution for Iraq. We have that. It's 
the Iraq Study Group report. Look at the cover of the report--''The way 
forward--A new approach.''

The Iraq situation has created a bitter divide in our country. We all 
want to see an end to the fighting in Iraq and stability there, as well 
as an end to violence perpetrated by terrorists around the world. I 
continue to pray for the protection of the American service men and 
women and civilians who are putting their lives on the line every day 
and also for their families here at home who continue to make 
tremendous sacrifices.

The Iraq Study Group met the test of developing a bipartisan 
consensus on how to succeed in Iraq. When our country is divided we are 
weak. When we are together we are strong.

I want to read from the letter penned by Secretary Baker and 
Congressman Hamilton as the prelude to the Iraq Study Group's 
recommendations:




 There is no magic formula to solve the problems of Iraq. 


 However, there are actions that can be taken to improve the 


 situation and protect American interests.



 Many Americans are dissatisfied, not just with the 


 situation in Iraq but with the state of our political debate 


 regarding Iraq. Our political leaders must build a bipartisan 


 approach to bring a responsible conclusion to what is now a 


 lengthy and costly war. Our country deserves a debate that 


 prizes substance over rhetoric, and a policy that is 


 adequately funded and sustainable. The President and Congress 


 must work together. Our leaders must be candid and forthright 


 with the American people in order to win their support.



 No one can guarantee that any course of action in Iraq at 


 this point will stop sectarian warfare, growing violence, or 


 a slide toward chaos. If current trends continue, the 


 potential consequences are severe. Because of the role and 


 responsibility of the United States in Iraq, and the 


 commitments our government has made, the United States has 


 special obligations. Our country must address as best it can 


 Iraq's many problems. The United States has long-term 


 relationships and interests at stake in the Middle East, and 


 needs to stay engaged.



 In this consensus report, the ten members of the Iraq Study 


 Group present a new approach because we believe there is a 


 better way forward. All options have not been exhausted. We 


 believe it is still possible to pursue different policies 


 that can give Iraq an opportunity for a better future, combat 


 terrorism, stabilize a critical region of the world, and 


 protect America's credibility, interests, and values. Our 


 report makes it clear that the Iraqi government and the Iraqi 


 people also must act to achieve a stable and hopeful future.



 What we recommend in this report demands a tremendous 


 amount of political will and cooperation by the executive and 


 legislative branches of the U.S. government. It demands 


 skillful implementation. It demands unity of effort by 


 government agencies. And its success depends on the unity of 


 the American people in a time of political polarization. 


 Americans can and must enjoy the right of robust debate 


 within a democracy. Yet U.S. foreign policy is doomed to 


 failure--as is any course of action in Iraq--if it is not 


 supported by a broad, sustained consensus. The aim of our 


 report is to move our country toward such a consensus.


This last sentence is the essence of what we should be addressing 
this week. The recommendations of the Iraq Study Group provide the 
blueprint for a consensus. The work has been done. The recommendations 
have been made. Now is the time for implementation.