---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `dc82e5081fdef423e1bb0d62207106fa`
`Mr. LEVIN — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. This is a June 13, 2007, letter to me from Secretary Rice. 
The setting for this--before I read this paragraph--is that Iraq said 
they never adopted those timelines, they never adopted those 
benchmarks. They contested what Secretary Rice said to me in the letter 
I am making part of the Record, dated January 30. I asked Secretary 
Rice about that. I said the Iraqis are saying you are wrong, that they 
didn't adopt the benchmarks. They say you are wrong, Secretary Rice. 
What do you have to say about that? She wrote me back:




 Thank you for your letter inquiring about the benchmarks 


 that the Government for Iraq set for itself last fall.


I emphasize the words ''set for itself last fall.''

Addressing me, she wrote:




 As you mentioned, I sent to you a letter in January in 


 which I noted that Iraq's Political Committee on National 


 Security agreed upon a set of benchmarks and an associated 


 timeline, which were reaffirmed by the Iraqi Presidency 


 Council in October 2006.


She continued:




 We have confirmed with Iraqi President Talibani's Chief of 


 Staff that the benchmarks were formally approved last fall by 


 the Iraqi Political Committee on National Security. This 


 committee includes the Presidency Council--the President and 


 two Vice Presidents--as well as the leaders of all major 


 political blocs in Iraq. The Iraqi Presidency Council then 


 posted the benchmarks on its website for several months.


I have already made this part of the Record.

I ask unanimous consent that my letter to the Secretary, which 
precipitated this response on June 13 also be printed in the Record.