---
---

# None
## `dc88567ac0d83817dfd2257ef1257f25`
`Mr. WARNER — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. I thank the Presiding Officer. Mr. President, I am given 
an opportunity now, which I have been looking forward to, to have a 
little colloquy with my long-time friend, Senator Levin, now chairman 
of the committee, and address one or two issues to explain why I feel 
very strongly that I have to oppose this amendment.

Just 49 days ago, the President signed into law an appropriations 
bill which contained legislative language, which legislative language 
originated on the floor of the Senate. I was privileged to be a part of 
the drafting of that language, and it eventually has become now the law 
of the land. I would like to review some of the points we put in that 
language which is the law.

It, first, requires the President to come forward on July 15, which 
he did. He submitted an assessment of the benchmarks. It further 
directed that General Petraeus be here in September with Ambassador 
Crocker. It further called upon the new organization which was created 
in this most recent appropriations bill, again originating, this part 
of the legislation, on the floor of the Senate. We put together a 
requirement that there be an independent study group of the Iraq 
security forces.

We have periodically through the years received reports from the 
Department of Defense describing how many battalions of the Iraqi 
forces are trained, how many are equipped, how many are ready to take 
the point by themselves, how many are dependent on U.S. forces. That is 
quite an accumulation of data. I felt very strongly, and other 
colleagues did, that we wanted to have a report independent of the 
Department of Defense, and that report performed by individuals who had 
many years of experience assessing the capabilities of men and women in 
uniform.

How fortunate we were that the former Commandant of the Marine Corps, 
General Jones, offered to head that group. He formed a group of fellow 
officers, most of them three and four stars now retired, who likewise 
have had years of experience and training in evaluating our Armed 
Forces. And they added two police chiefs. They just finished this past 
weekend. They returned on Saturday from a 1-week trip to Iraq to study 
the forces.

Part of the law requires that they come forward with a report. And I 
am pleased to say, having consulted with General Jones, that report 
will be available early in September, such that the President, the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, and others can take it into consideration 
as they formulate the sequential requirement of the President to come 
forth and report to America, the Congress, and his people his opinion 
of the situation in Iraq as of September 15 of this year.

It is for that reason that I believe we should hold in place 
additional legislation at this time until the President has had the 
opportunity, that Congress has had the opportunity, and, most 
importantly, the American people have had the opportunity to study all 
of these facts provided by the professionals.

I would like to also add that the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, General Pace, has also stated he will have a report, his own 
assessment, of the situation over there, and his assessment of the Iraq 
security forces; that is, both military and police, prepared for that 
September timeframe. So that is the focal point.

I say with deep respect to my colleague, Senator Levin, chairman of 
the committee, which I am proud to have served on now 29 years with 
Senator Levin, side by side, that it seems to me we have passed a law 
where we put in the process by which America would proceed to the 15th 
of September, at which time the President will report to the Nation 
about such changes as he deems--the President, as Commander in Chief, 
exercising his clear authority under the Constitution, to change or 
revise the strategy and how our forces will be implemented in the 
future.

Later this evening, perhaps when I have further time, I will address 
the Warner-Lugar amendment, which goes into some detail about our 
recommendations to the President--I repeat: recommendations. Not 
directing him as a matter of law--on that report on 15 September; to 
include certain items in it. But the point I wish to make is I feel 
that if the Senate were to adopt, by way of a vote--which now requires 
60 votes--the Levin amendment, it would be in contravention to the very 
spirit, letter, and purpose of the law that this body adopted 49 days 
ago. That would bring about confusion in the minds of the troops, 
confusion in the minds of the world.

How can America take such a zigzag course in legislation at such a 
critical time in our history, while trying to provide the Iraqi people 
with a stable situation so they can have some measurable quality of 
life and freedom and move ahead and hopefully have a nation that will 
join other nations in the world in our struggle against terrorism? That 
is my main concern.

I also point out that my good friend, Senator Levin, voted for the 
Cornyn amendment, which we adopted this morning, and among the findings 
are, as follows: The Cornyn amendment, which Senator Levin and I, and 
90-some other Senators supported, stated:




 A failed state in Iraq would become a safe haven for 


 Islamic radicals, including al Qaeda.


We read today in the National Intelligence Estimate addressing the 
potential of al-Qaida and how so much of that potential is directed, 
clearly, at the United States.

The Cornyn amendment also said:




 The Iraq Study Group report found that ''(a) chaotic Iraq--


should we have a precipitous pullout--




 could provide a still stronger base of operations for 


 terrorists who seek to act regionally or even globally.''


Further, the Cornyn amendment recited:




 A National Intelligence Estimate concluded that the 


 consequences of a premature withdrawal from Iraq would be 


 that--(A) Al Qaeda would attempt to use Anbar province to 


 plan further attacks outside of Iraq; (B) neighboring 


 countries would consider actively intervening in Iraq; and 


 (C) sectarian violence would significantly increase in Iraq, 


 accompanied by massive civilian casualties and displacement.


Now, I read that because my valued friend, Senator Levin, appeared 
last night on a national program, the Jim Lehrer show, and he was asked 
repeatedly in that interview about how he would envision an Iraq having 
to experience a withdrawal timetable, which is fixed in his amendment. 
How would Iraq be, once that timetable went into effect and those 
troops would withdraw? I read through very carefully the transcript, 
which I have here, and I cannot find in there the specific references, 
much like what was in the Cornyn amendment. It seems to me there might 
be some disconnect between what you said publicly last night and the 
document to which you attached your vote in support today.

So I would like to entertain a colloquy and have my good friend 
explain how he envisions what the consequences to Iraq would be should 
his amendment be law eventually. We would first have to pass it here 
and then it would have to go to a conference with the House and then 
survive and become a part of the conference report.