---
---

# SCHEDULE
## `dc91451831e032dfd2b97691cbdee3c4`
`Mr. REID — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. REID. I say to my friend, the distinguished Republican leader and 
people on his side of the aisle, if people are concerned about going to 
S. 4 because of not being allowed to offer amendments, I have stated 
publicly--and I understand because there were no amendments on the 
continuing resolution--and I will state again, I appreciate very much 
the cooperation of the Republicans. Even though there were no 
amendments, this was an issue this Congress, this Senate had to 
complete. None of the Members of the body here are responsible for what 
took place prior to this Congress. The 110th Congress is our 
responsibility, and that is why I am very happy the Democrats and 
Republicans joined together and got the continuing resolution passed. 
We were able to work our way through the contentious matters we had 
dealing with the Iraq war. I stated at the time we were doing that the 
9/11 legislation will be subject to amendments.

Senator McConnell and I are working our way through this issue to 
determine when the next debate will take place regarding Iraq. I hope 
it can be done on an agreement between the two of us. We are working on 
that. But I do say, don't anyone suggest the 9/11 legislation will not 
be open to amendment; it will be. We are going to work our way through 
that. There will not be cloture filed on this legislation until--
hopefully, it won't have to be done. I think this is a piece of 
legislation for which it would not be necessary. There certainly will 
not be anything in the next 10 days. We will take a look at it.

I will work in conjunction with the distinguished Republican leader 
to find out if cloture ever has to be filed on the 9/11 bill. But I 
would hope we could gain this extra 30 hours and move to it right away. 
We could get the opening statements out of the way and some amendments 
offered today.

I had a leadership meeting at 9 o'clock this morning. I told the 
Senators there they better be ready for some votes Friday, that we are 
not going to be finished by 10 o'clock Friday morning. We have to 
finish this bill and finish it in a way that is appropriate.

So we have a lot of work to do. When we finish the 9/11 legislation, 
we have stem cells, we have the budget, we have the supplemental during 
this work period. We have a lot to do. We will need the cooperation of 
both sides.

I spoke out here last night, and I did my utmost to lay out the 
facts. We have been able to get a lot done this last work period. It 
was a long work period. We were able to do some good things. We were 
able to pass the most comprehensive ethics and lobbying reform in the 
history of the country. We passed minimum wage legislation for the 
first time in 10 years. We got the country's financial house in order 
by completing that. We have done some good work. As I said last night, 
it has been done on a bipartisan basis. We have worked together. So I 
hope we can continue to do that.
