---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `dc934a9b82346c93b76b76bb8083dc2f`
`Mr. HOYER — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.

We have no more serious matter to debate than war and peace. I thank 
the gentleman for his extraordinary leadership and for bringing this 
bill to the floor.

I must remark that how different I think the debate would be if not 
one of the facts were changed but one: that if it were Bill Clinton in 
the Presidency and all the other facts were the same, I ask my friends 
on the other side of the aisle what would their comments reflect.

I have said it before many times on this House floor and I will say 
it again today. Every Member of this great body who swears an oath to 
support and defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and 
domestic, is committed to fighting and defeating terrorism. We must not 
lose sight in this debate that terrorism is a real threat to our people 
and to our country. We do not lose sight of that on this side of the 
aisle. We are committed to defeating terrorists and protecting America. 
Any suggestion otherwise demeans our discourse and is beneath, frankly, 
the dignity of the Members of this institution and the American people.

After nearly 4/1/2/ years in Iraq, a war that has been, I think, 
superbly peopled by our men and women in uniform but they have been 
trying to pursue an incompetently planned policy, this is what our 
Nation has to show for its efforts:

More than 3,600 brave American servicemen and women have been killed 
in action. More than 26,000 others have been maimed and injured. The 
American taxpayer has spent $450 billion on this war, with a pending 
request by the administration for an additional $147 billion.

And yet the President's policy in Iraq is not succeeding. Just today 
the administration released the ''assessment report'' on Iraq demanded 
by this Democratic Congress. The bottom line is the Iraq Government has 
failed to meet a single one of the security, political, and economic 
milestones for success. Perhaps most jarring, the administration rates 
as ''unsatisfactory'' the number of Iraqi security units capable of 
operating independently. That is over 50 months later.

The report states: ''There has been a slight reduction in units 
assessed as capable of independent operations since January, 2007.'' In 
other words, the administration says we are going backwards in terms of 
the capability of the Iraqi forces.

While the administration and congressional Republicans try to put a 
positive spin on the so-called ''progress'' in Iraq, other respected 
voices are not so optimistic. Yesterday, Thomas Fingar, the Deputy 
Director for Analysis at the National Intelligence Council, told the 
House Armed Services Committee that there have been ''few appreciable 
gains'' in Iraqi political progress. Even General David Petraeus, our 
top commander in Iraq, a gentleman that all of us respect as a military 
leader, told the New York Times that ''while some measures of violence 
showed a downward trend, it was too early to suggest that there has 
been a lasting turnaround in the war.'' That is over 50 months later.

Mr. Speaker, last January in an address to the Nation, President Bush 
stated: ''America will hold the Iraqi government to the benchmarks it 
has announced.'' We have not done so. We said we would do that, but we 
have not done so. Today the President shows no intention of changing 
course even as the Iraqis fail to meet those benchmarks.

Our fight against terrorism must and will be tough, but it also must 
be smart. And it is long past time that we recognize the following: The 
President's stay-the-course strategy is not working. The Iraqis must 
take responsibility for their own country. This war has severely 
diminished our military readiness and diverted our attention in the war 
on terror. If that were not the case, Osama bin Laden would still not 
be at large and al Qaeda would not be reported as being back at the 
strength that it had on September 11 of 2001.

After $450 billion and precious blood being spilled by American 
troops and others, we must change course by voting for this 
legislation, which calls for a responsible redeployment of American 
forces in Iraq and a comprehensive plan in U.S. policy in Iraq and the 
broader region.

Mr. Speaker, we must have a specific strategy for missions our 
remaining forces would undertake as well as plans to engage Iraq's 
neighboring states and to locate and eliminate al Qaeda and allied 
terrorist networks, which seek to destabilize and destroy the United 
States and other democracies. Jonathan Alter at Newsweek just a week 
ago referred to this as a ''pull and strike'' strategy. Redeploy so 
that our forces are able to focus on the terrorists, not on the civil 
war in which they find themselves embroiled.

Mr. Speaker, the American people and an increasing number of our 
friends on the other side of the aisle have lost confidence in the 
President's Iraq strategy because we have yet to see demonstrable, 
sustainable progress in that effort. Our troops have done everything we 
have asked them.

I'll tell you that we are so proud of those of you who have served in 
the Armed Forces of the United States. I was so proud of Patrick 
Murphy's statement that he gave here today, so proud of all of those 
who have served not only in Iraq but in every theater of conflict to 
which Americans have responded.

But as Senator Domenici told the Baltimore Sun yesterday, one of the 
senior Members of the United States Senate and a leader in the 
Republican Party, he said this: ''There is no reason to wait . . . I am 
trying to tell the President that he must change his ways because there 
is nothing positive happening.''



That is not a Democratic Member of the Senate speaking, that is a 
senior Republican leader saying there is no reason to wait.

This bill is on this floor this day because there is no reason to 
wait. Hopefully this body will overwhelmingly respond to the will and 
focus of the American people, which are pleading for a change in 
strategy, a new direction, a policy of success against terrorists, and 
ensuring the safety of our Nation and its people. Let's change our 
strategy and demand that the Iraqis step up and be responsible for 
their country.

Our presence there, General Casey observed, has been undermining 
their taking responsibility, not enhancing it. Let's be responsibly 
redeploying our troops. And let's focus our resources and efforts on 
disrupting and destroying the terrorist networks that threaten our 
national security. This legislation allows us to accomplish that 
mission.

I urge my colleagues, for this body, for their constituents, for this 
country, and for our troops, pass this legislation.