---
---

# HOUSING AND ECONOMIC RECOVERY ACT OF 2008
## `dc97c5468d01101eaaf2825ecab01022`
`Mr. REED — 25 July 2008`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I wish to talk about the pending passage of 
extraordinarily important legislation: the Housing and Economic 
Recovery Act. We are debating it today, and it is one of the most 
significant pieces of legislation that we will address in this Congress 
and perhaps in many Congresses to come. It is in direct response to the 
housing crisis, which has not only undermined home values throughout 
this country, forcing thousands and hundreds of thousands of people 
into foreclosure or onto the verge of foreclosure, but its effects have 
essentially been transmitted throughout the entire economy, and we are 
seeing a huge economic downturn. Unless we provide some type of footing 
for housing in the United States, I do not think the economy will begin 
to recover. It is perhaps the most significant economic issue that we 
face.

For months now we have been battling to get this legislation through, 
and we are now on the verge of passing this significant bill. I am 
excited for that moment, and I wish to first commend individuals who 
have played a critical role. Senator Dodd has been remarkable in his 
management of this legislation, along with Senator Shelby. They have 
played a dynamic and very creative and very positive role in bringing 
this legislation to final passage. They have been ably assisted by 
their staff, and I have been particularly assisted by my staff members, 
Kara Stein and Didem Nisanci. They have done a remarkable job.

For the first time in a generation with this legislation, we are 
beginning to update, modernize, and strengthen the institutions that 
undergird our mortgage and housing markets to provide some footing, 
some economic traction, so that Americans can begin to feel somewhat 
hopeful and confident about their economic future again. We are also 
providing grants and tax incentives to encourage the development of 
housing across the Nation for low-income families.

One of those issues that has been persistent and, indeed, pernicious 
for many, many, many years before the onset of this housing crisis is 
the lack of affordable housing in many parts of the country--in fact, 
practically every part of the country. Low-income families have been 
struggling for decent, affordable housing.

In this legislation, we are providing a response to their struggle--a 
response I think will not only benefit low-income families but benefit 
communities throughout the Nation.

This legislation is a comprehensive and realistic response to the 
current crisis. I believe it will help millions of Americans to find 
decent, safe, and affordable housing.

Again, let me thank Chairman Dodd and Senator Shelby for all of their 
hard work and their very astute, very wise judgments at various places 
along the way where this legislation could have gone off the track. 
They have done a remarkable service for this body and for the American 
people. This bill is not just going to provide families with some hope; 
it is also going to provide families with real help, and that is so 
critical at this juncture.

For families, such as many in Rhode Island who are struggling to stay 
in their homes, this legislation creates a new program at the Federal 
Housing Administration--the FHA. This HOPE for Homeowners Program will 
allow families who have mortgages that are underwater--their mortgage 
is greater than the value of their home at this time--to refinance into 
30-year, fixed-rate, FHA-insured mortgages they can afford. It is going 
to increase funding for home ownership counseling so that more families 
have access to these much needed services.

This legislation also aids our returning soldiers, sailors, airmen, 
and marines. I just had the privilege of traveling into Iraq and 
Afghanistan with Senator Hagel and Senator Obama to personally thank 
these young men and women and to tell them we are with them. We are 
with them not just there in the war zone, but we have to be with them 
when they come home so they have a chance when they come back to 
maintain their homes and get the services they need. This legislation 
will help them by lengthening the time a lender must wait before 
starting the foreclosure process and by providing these soldiers, 
sailors, airmen, and marines with 1 year of relief from increases in 
mortgage interest rates. It is fitting that we spend a moment in this 
legislation to recognize these brave young Americans.


It will also provide $3.92 billion for States and local governments 
for the development of abandoned and foreclosed homes. It has been 
estimated that Rhode Island will receive about $56.7 million of this 
community development block grant funding, which should help stabilize 
many of our neighborhoods and stem the significant losses in the home 
values of surrounding neighbors.

What happens when a home is foreclosed? It affects dramatically and 
traumatically the individual family, but the effect is not contained to 
that home because the values of the surrounding homes go down as well. 
Almost like a cascading effect, one foreclosure follows another, home 
values descend, and then you have a blighted community. We have seen 
this in Rhode Island.

My colleague, the Presiding Officer and junior Senator from Rhode 
Island, has traveled through some of our communities where not one 
home, but two, and then three, and four, and then ten are foreclosed--
then suddenly we have a problem which is eating at the heart of the 
community.

This CDBG money will help cities move aggressively, first, to protect 
the physical structures of these homes. One of the things we have 
seen--not just in Rhode Island but nationwide--is that when these homes 
are abandoned, they are subject to predators who come in, rip out the 
copper piping, the wiring, take off the siding, and before you know it, 
you have lost that opportunity to put another family in that home. It 
is a great loss to the community.

We have done much over the last several decades to begin to turn the 
corner in many of our communities in Rhode Island. You could see the 
sense of pride and progress as homes were fixed up and new properties 
were developed, but we stand the chance of losing that, of letting it 
slip away. So without this community block grant development money, we 
will see neighborhoods turned inside out, begin to fail, and provide a 
further pull downward on the economy in so many communities in this 
country. This is another important aspect of this legislation.

This legislation also will help to stabilize and stimulate the real 
estate market.

This has been one of the great engines of our economy over the last 
decade or more.

This legislation contains a provision that will provide a $7,500 tax 
credit for first-time homebuyers--help people get back into the real 
estate market.

It will also provide States with $11 billion of additional tax-exempt 
bond authority in 2008 to help refinance subprime loans, make loans to 
first-time homebuyers, and finance the building of affordable housing. 
Many States--particularly in our State of


Rhode Island--have housing authorities that have done a remarkable job 
of partnering with private, not-for-profits, and local commercial and 
financial institutions to try to help develop affordable housing, help 
people who are having difficulties with their mortgages. This 
additional bonding authority will give more support to these local 
efforts. It is a critical issue.

The legislation also increases the GSE--which are Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac--FHA, and VA loan limits. This is going to allow more 
families to access conventional mortgage rates and be able to place 
themselves in affordable and sustainable mortgage products. One of the 
problems we have seen over the last several years has become much more 
vivid. Looking back, because we didn't empower the VA, FHA, and GSEs to 
more aggressively provide access to conventional loans, many families 
turned to these exotic mortgages with accelerating interest rates. As a 
result, they find themselves now in a great dilemma. Studies have shown 
that many people who were getting these subprime loans would have 
qualified for one of these conventional loans with a conventional 
interest rate. Because we weren't reaching out through these Government 
agencies, the VA, Federal Housing Administration, and also 
incentivizing the quasi-governmental agencies, Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac, these people had very little choice but to be subject to the 
blandishment and allure of these seemingly good deals in the subprime 
mortgage market. Now we are getting much more aggressive with 
conventional mortgages. That will be, I think, going forward a good 
thing.

Important also, this legislation helps restore confidence in Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac. It creates a new, strong, independent, world-class 
regulator for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Federal Home Loan Banks.

The bill also includes a provision, at the request of Secretary 
Paulson and the administration, which will authorize the Department of 
the Treasury to provide an explicit backstop should the GSEs encounter 
grave financial problems.

I am pleased also that the Federal Reserve's consultative role with 
the newly created regulator will also be also limited to the duration 
of this authority rather than in perpetuity.

I firmly believe that issues surrounding regulatory reform need to be 
seriously considered at length for the remainder of this year and in 
the upcoming year. We should not be merely bootstrapping these issues 
to the current bill without significant deliberation on the role and 
the ability of the Federal Reserve to perform such responsibilities. 
Let me say that again. It is vitally important to signal to the markets 
and the American people that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are still 
vital, valuable parts of our mortgage market. In fact, they represent 
right now roughly 70 percent of that market. If they are faltering, if 
our real estate markets decline further, that is going to be a 
significant weight on our overall economy--even more significant than 
in the present day. Restoring confidence in Fannie and Freddie and the 
marketplace is one of the building blocks to beginning to restore and 
rebuild our economy going forward. These provisions will, I hope, do it 
in such a way that they provide psychological support so that actually 
drawing down funds by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may be unnecessary. 
This backstop will send, I think, the right message to the marketplace 
so we can move on to begin to deal with some other issues with respect 
to the larger financial markets of this country, and indeed the world.

Finally, let me mention some of the provisions I am particularly 
proud of in the bill. They represent the culmination of years of work--
not my work alone, but work on which I have taken upon myself to 
provide some, I hope, leadership.

I have been working to create a national affordable housing trust 
fund, this in response to the needs I have seen--and my colleague, the 
junior Senator from Rhode Island, has seen--around the country, with 
families struggling to find a decent place to live. Without a decent 
and a permanent place to live, how can you expect children to succeed 
in school, if they are in three different schools when families move 
from one rental to another one? How can families choose between 
shelters at all, when apartments are riddled with lead hazards, which 
impacts the health and welfare of a child and the family? How can you 
expect someone to confidently go out and look for a job and maintain a 
job, when they are asked for a permanent home address and they have to 
scribble something--either make it up or change it repeatedly? These 
are the challenges many face because we don't have adequate affordable 
housing for many of our citizens. Prompted by that, I have, since I 
have been in the Congress--the House and the Senate--been working for 
the day we can provide more support for affordable housing for our 
citizens.

When I was chair and ranking member of the Housing and Transportation 
Subcommittee of the Banking Committee during the last few Congresses, 
it became clear to me that our Nation had this affordable housing 
crisis. One of my first public policy endeavors as a young lawyer in 
Rhode Island was to be the pro bono legal counsel to Amos House, a 
wonderful organization in our home State, in Providence, which 
attempted to provide support to people who were poor and also provide 
some housing. I first became convinced that if we can provide stability 
in housing, that would go a long way towards giving people the 
confidence, self-esteem, and the skills needed to master the challenges 
of living in a very difficult economy.


Housing is expensive now--very expensive. It is falling, but it has 
gone up dramatically. The affordable housing crisis continues to be 
with us. Indeed, one of the ironies of the marketplace will be--and I 
hope quickly--when the market restores itself and home values begin to 
rise because of this legislation and other legislation, it will make it 
even more difficult for low-income and modest income Americans to find 
a place to rent or buy. We want the economy and the housing market to 
come back strong, and we want housing values to rise. But we cannot 
forget the people who may be left behind because their income is flat.

So this affordable housing provision is critical. There is no place 
in this country, for example, where an individual with a full-time job, 
at the minimum wage, can afford a two-bedroom apartment. Today, the 
minimum wage is going up, which is long overdue; but even at $6.65 an 
hour, that doesn't leave a lot for a good, safe two-bedroom apartment 
for a family. We have to do more. This legislation does more.

In my State of Rhode Island, the average wage for a renter is $11.61. 
In order to afford the fair market rent for an apartment at this wage, 
a renter must work 68 hours per week, 52 weeks a year. If you are 
making the average wage, in order to afford a decent two-bedroom 
apartment, you have to work 68 hours a week, 52 weeks a year. People 
are doing that. They are doing it for their children; they are doing it 
to make sure that at least there is a safe and healthy place for their 
children. That is an extraordinary burden. That is just to pay the 
rent. What about the increased food prices? What about the gasoline 
prices we are all recently talking about with such intensity?

This legislation creates an affordable housing trust fund from a less 
than one-half cent fee on each new dollar of business that Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac engage in. This is not from the taxpayer. This is from 
the business activities of these government-sponsored entities. A less 
than a half-cent new fee on each new dollar of business.

The fund, we estimate, is going to provide approximately $500 million 
per year for the building, preservation, and rehabilitation of housing 
for low-income families. Rhode Island should receive approximately $3 
million from the trust fund program once it gets up and running.

Part of the money collected from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will also 
be allocated to a new program that will be run by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, called the Capital Magnet Fund.

Community development financial institution and nonprofit housing 
developers will be able to apply for funding if they can show an 
increased investment in the development, preservation, rehabilitation, 
and purchase of affordable housing for primarily low-income families. 
So there are basically two funding streams. We hope it will incentivize 
the use not just of these


funds but additional private funds so we can provide even more support 
for affordable housing.

The grantees of the capital magnet program must show they can 
leverage at least $10 in private dollars for each dollar they receive 
from the Capital Magnet Fund. That is a pretty good deal. If they can 
leverage $10 of private investment for $1 of investment from that fund, 
that will multiply many fold the effect of these affordable housing 
dollars. These grantees will have to show that leverage and show 
innovative ways in which they can deliver affordable housing services. 
This will be a private solution to this problem. These grantees are 
primarily community development financial institutions or not-for-
profits, who want to go ahead and support affordable housing in their 
communities.

This funding will be used to create and support financial programs 
that dramatically increase investment in low-income housing, such as 
revolving loan funds, risk-sharing loan programs, loan-loss reserves, 
and affordable housing trust funds at the local level.

I also helped draft provisions that would require Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac to purchase more mortgages made to low- and very low-income 
families. This should increase the access of these families to 30-year 
fixed rate conventional mortgages. These provisions also require Fannie 
and Freddie to purchase more mortgages for rental housing built for 
low-income families, which decreases the mortgage rates on these 
mortgages. Frankly, more financial institutions will make the mortgages 
because they will be able to sell them to the secondary market.

The legislation also includes the text of a bill I introduced, called 
the Mortgage Disclosure Improvement Act. These provisions require that 
consumers are provided with timely and meaningful information regarding 
the terms of their loan, including loans that refinance a home or 
provide a home equity line of credit. As we look back on this subprime 
crisis, so many times borrowers were totally unaware of the details of 
the mortgage. They might have been able to afford the first year of 
payments, but once the escalator kicked in, they were out of the box. 
They never understood this fully. Frankly, there were more incentives 
for the brokers and dealers of the loans to obscure the bad news than 
to deliver the news to the borrowers. With these improvements, people 
will have fair warning. They will have the information they need to 
make a better judgment about the mortgages they will sign up for.

In particular, the TILA, the Truth-in-Lending Act form, will now show 
the maximum payment a consumer might have to make under the terms of 
the loan, and increase penalties if a lender doesn't provide this 
information in a truthful and timely way to the consumer. You will know 
the maximum exposure you will have as a borrower. That should be a 
sobering caution for people who are trying their best to get into a 
home.

I am also pleased that this bill includes language I authored to 
expand access to HUD-approved counseling programs by allowing any low 
or moderate income homeowner to be eligible for financial counseling 
services. This provision will allow many more families to get the 
advice or assistance they need to help keep their homes.

As most of you know, FHA also insures reverse mortgages that can be 
used by homeowners age 62 or older to convert their home equity into 
monthly streams of income, or a line of credit to be repaid when they 
no longer occupy the home.

As the coauthor with Senator Allard of a bill to improve the home 
equity conversion mortgage program, I am pleased this bill contains our 
language to remove the current congressionally imposed 275,000 cap on 
the number of reverse mortgages that FHA can insure per year. This 
should allow the successful FHA program for seniors to expand and serve 
more seniors.

The bill also includes important provisions to protect our seniors 
from fraudulent practices, such as requirements for independent, third-
party counseling before they enter into the mortgage, limits on the 
amount of origination fees that can be charged, and prohibitions on 
requiring the purchase of other products, such as insurance or 
annuities. This is a good program. We think we have made it better and 
believe it will now be able to serve more seniors.

Additionally, the legislation contains language I authored to use $25 
million in FHA savings every year for the purpose of modernizing and 
improving FHA's technology, processes, and program performance. This 
funding can also be used to provide more staffing for FHA's newly 
expanded programs. This funding is critical to ensure the success of 
the FHA modernization proposal since it will allow FHA to access 
cutting-edge mortgage industry practices and procedures. If we want the 
FHA to be a strong participant in the mortgage market, they have to 
have the modern tools to do that, not only to serve more borrowers but 
also to protect against problems, to protect the resources they are 
committed on behalf of the Government to use for the benefit of our 
fellow citizens. So this modernization provision is absolutely 
critical, it is important, and I am glad it is in the bill.


We are at a critical juncture, and I am very pleased that we have 
finally been able to reach bipartisan agreement on this legislation. 
Again, it is a tribute to Senator Dodd and Senator Shelby and so many 
others and to a remarkable staff who have worked so hard. I am most 
proud of what we have been able to do to increase access to credit and 
affordable housing for low-income people in Rhode Island and across the 
Nation. This legislation is going to be the linchpin that helps 
millions of families have decent, safe, and affordable housing.

It also should restore confidence in not only our Nation's housing 
market but in our Nation's economy. As we move forward, I think we have 
much to learn from this experience, including how integrally connected 
our housing markets and capital markets have become. Safe, decent, and 
affordable housing should not just be the American dream, it should be 
the American promise. I look forward to witnessing the good this bill 
does in moving us in that direction.

As a final point, my colleague, Senator Sanders, has shown remarkable 
leadership to get LIHEAP funding onto the floor of this Senate. We need 
it. One of the responses, one of the immediate responses--not talking 
about drilling that 10 years from now will put more gasoline into the 
world market--in immediately dealing with the crisis this fall and 
winter for families everywhere is to pass a LIHEAP bill. I hope we can 
do that.

I yield the floor.