---
---

# VETERANS DAY
## `dca4ca96c99d6b478bc3020034b65e15`
`Mr. DOMENICI — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President. I would like to take a moment to 
commemorate Veterans Day and honor all those who have served, fought, 
and sacrificed for our country and the freedom all Americans enjoy.

We as a nation should never forget the debt we owe to the generations 
of Americans who have served as soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines. 
From the First and Second World Wars, to Korea, Vietnam, and the 
Persian Gulf war, millions of Americans have answered the call of duty 
to preserve the freedom we all hold so dear. This is also true for our 
service men and women who are right now doing an amazing job in Iraq 
and the war on terror and throughout the world.

Sadly, many Americans have paid the ultimate price and have given 
their lives for our country. No praise can be too great for the 
courage, valor, and patriotism of these men and women, and their 
sacrifice will never be forgotten.

I think it is also important to remember the service of veterans to 
our country has never ended with their departure from the Armed Forces. 
They have enriched every community in which they reside with their 
strength of character, hard work, and devotion to family. For this we 
must also be grateful.

On this Veterans Day, I hope New Mexicans will honor all the veterans 
of our great Nation, but I would like them to think particularly about 
our service men and women who are right this moment in harm's way. 
They, like all veterans, have left behind the comfort of home, family, 
and friends to defend our country and its countless blessings. For 
this, many have paid an immense price, emotionally and physically. I 
know our thoughts and prayers are with these outstanding individuals.

Again, I would like to thank all those who have served past and 
present to preserve and protect our great Nation.
