# None
## `dcdc75a9e158a8159eea1216803cd2eb`
`Mr. PENCE â€” 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. PENCE. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and in support of most of 
this bill, and certainly appreciate the spirit with which it has come 
together.

I certainly strongly support the military funding portion of the 
Iraq/Afghanistan supplemental appropriations bill. It will speed 
roughly $165 billion in emergency funds to our men and women serving in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, and it will do so without imposing artificial 
timelines and timetables for withdrawal.

Far away from Washington D.C., our brave troops are focused on doing 
the job we've asked them to do, continuing our progress in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

Earlier this week, the headline of the Indianapolis Star, the leading 
newspaper in my home State, simply read, ''Iraq May Have Reached 
Turning Point.'' In a national Associated Press story the following 
words were written, ''Signs are emerging that Iraq has reached a 
turning point. Violence is down, armed extremists are in disarray, 
government confidence is rising, and sectarian communities are gearing 
up for a battle at the polls rather than slaughter in the streets.''

Mr. Speaker, the American people deserve to know that these headlines 
would not be possible if most Democrats in Congress had had their way, 
if they had passed any of the measures over the last year and a half 
that are brought to this floor again and again which would have cut off 
funding to our troops and facilitated a retreat and defeat from Iraq. 
And these headlines would not be possible if Republicans in Congress 
had not stood with our soldiers in the field, stood with our Commander 
in Chief, supported the new strategy and the new tactics that have 
brought about what the Associated Press describes as ''a turning point 
in Iraq.''

And so I strongly support the military supplemental funding in this 
bill. And I commend the leadership, most especially my colleagues who 
have stood with our soldiers and our Commander in Chief, for bringing 
this clean bill to the floor.

Also, Mr. Speaker, I was heartened, as the gentleman from California 
just alluded, the ranking member, that after weeks of some of the most 
devastating weather in Indiana history, that this legislation will 
include $2.65 billion in disaster relief funding to ensure that 
critical resources are available to respond to the tornados and 
flooding across the Midwest.



I've spent a great deal of my time with Hoosiers that are hurting. 
And my heart goes out to families across the Midwest and to those 
government agencies that are responding with such effectiveness. But I 
must say that in this emergency military spending bill, when we fund 
these emergencies, be they at home or abroad, we still need to do so in 
a fiscally responsible manner.

I've said before and will say again that we must ensure that a 
catastrophe of nature does not become a catastrophe of debt for our 
children and grandchildren. I support this funding for true 
emergencies. But I still believe, as others have said before, that it 
should be offset by reductions in other government spending.

And let me say emphatically, military emergency funding bills ought 
to be about military funding and emergencies. Our war funding is 
emergency military spending. The GI Bill improvements in this bill are 
meritorious and military. Flooding in the Midwest is an emergency. But 
I say with respect, what does $178 million for the Bureau of Prisons 
have to do with military or emergencies? What is $210 million for the 
Census or $400 million for scientific research doing in an emergency 
military funding bill?

I support this expansion of the GI Bill. I support funding FEMA 
during a


time of crisis. And I certainly support our troops.