# None
## `dce7158eb758cd60808a099fdca3a367`
`Ms. SNOWE â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, first of all, I express my profound 
gratitude to my friend and colleague from Arizona, Senator McCain, the 
ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, for his unsurpassed and 
exemplary leadership on so many defense and national security issues 
throughout his distinguished career.

I rise to speak to the monumental, consequential matter before us 
with regard to the future course of the United States and our 
courageous men and women in Iraq, and specifically to express my 
support and cosponsorship of the amendment that is presently before the 
Senate that has been authored by the chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee, Senator Levin, and Senator Reed of Rhode Island. I thank 
them for their hard work and outstanding leadership on this historic 
matter.

I recognize that none of us arrives at this debate lightly. In my 28-
year tenure in Congress, I have witnessed and participated in debates 
on such vital matters as Lebanon, Panama, the Persian Gulf, Somalia, 
Bosnia, and Kosovo. Indisputably, a myriad of deeply held beliefs were 
expressed on those pivotal matters--some in concert, some 
complimentary, some in conflict. Yet, without question, all were rooted 
in mutual concern for and love of our great Nation. Without question, 
that remains so today with the various proposals that are before us.

I remind my colleagues in the Senate that the framework that has been 
embraced in the amendment authored by Senator Levin and Senator Reed is 
one that is not without precedent throughout our history in the actions 
taken by this institution in previous conflicts. So it is not a 
departure from precedent but very consistent with precedent in the 
past. Where we make decisions to impose our imprint on a longstanding 
conflict is obviously of critical consequence to this Nation.

In my view, 4/1/2/ years following the commencement of our military 
operations in Iraq, and 6 months after the troop surge was announced 
and was initiated, we now stand at the crossroads between help and 
reality with respect to the Iraqi Government's ability or even 
willingness to achieve national reconciliation for its own country and 
its own people.

The time has come to address that reality. The time has come to 
determine if our military and our strategy should continue on the basis 
of perpetually hoping the Iraqis will succeed or whether they actually 
possess the desire and the drive to place their national interest above 
their sectarian ambitions.

In my considered examination and analysis, taking into account my 
visits to Iraq--most recently in May--the facts and information we 
already have had at hand, the record of serial intransigence on the 
part of the Iraqi Government regarding its inability to forge the 
political underpinnings essential for national reconciliation, and the 
fact there is universal agreement that a military solution alone is not 
possible, I believe a dramatic and fundamental change in our strategy 
in Iraq is essential and that Congress must require it based on that 
reality.

Because while the hands of time have now advanced in what has been 
described as sort of the 11th hour for Iraqi political reconciliation, 
in fact, in many ways, I see progress has moved in a regressive 
fashion. We can no longer afford to place more American service men and 
women in harm's way to instill a peace that the Iraqis seem unwilling 
to seek for themselves.

I do not come to this conclusion casually or abruptly. Far from it. 
Indeed, following the President's address to the Nation in January, in 
which he unveiled a ''New Way Forward in Iraq'' through primarily 
increasing troop levels, I was among the first to publicly oppose that 
plan. In my view, it addressed neither the root cause of the violence 
in Iraq that was fueled by longstanding and deep-seated sectarian 
conflicts, nor the failure of the Iraqi Government to either 
demonstrate the will or capacity to quell that sectarian violence.

It is incumbent upon the Iraqi people and their Government to work 
toward their own national unity. At that juncture, when we were about 
to assume even greater risk on behalf of the future of Iraq, there was, 
frankly, no compelling evidence that the Iraqis were willing to assume 
similar risks for a united future that only they can truly secure.

Therefore, I then joined my colleagues Senators Biden, Levin, and 
Hagel, in introducing a Senate resolution that opposed the surge and 
instead would have urged the President to increase our counterterrorism 
efforts, maintain the territorial integrity of Iraq, promote regional 
stability through a renewed diplomatic offensive, and continue the 
training of the Iraqi security forces--all without withdrawing 
precipitously.

I said at the time that it was essential for the Congress to make our 
voices heard in a policy that has significant implications not only for 
our Nation and the Middle East but, indeed, the world community. I 
believe our bipartisan proposal would have offered a clear expression 
for a new strategy that would have compelled, in the words of the 
resolution itself, ''the Iraqi political leaders to make the political 
compromises necessary to end the violence.'' Unfortunately, the measure 
did not generate sufficient support at the time, and now we find 
ourselves confronting a similar situation only 6 months later.


In May, I traveled again to Iraq, where the good news was mixed and 
the bad news was deeply disturbing. First and foremost, I want to say 
our troops


were performing superbly and courageously and in an extremely complex 
and challenging environment. I am certain every Member of this body 
would agree when I say the men and women fighting for this great Nation 
are integral members of the most professional and dedicated military 
the world has ever witnessed. So there is no question--no question--of 
our troops' heroic commitment.

Indeed, I witnessed the improved security situation, as has been 
mentioned many times on the floor, in Ramadi. I was part of the first 
congressional group to travel into downtown Ramadi and visit a joint 
security post. In that city, the tribal sheiks and the Iraqi forces 
have begun to work in conjunction with our own forces to fight a common 
enemy, and that common enemy is al-Qaida. We know the success, and 
clearly it was a model of success and cooperation. However, we also 
were told that what worked in Anbar might not necessarily work in the 
other provinces, that the threat varies from province to province, as 
we have already discovered. The threat varies from city to city, and 
the threat is multidimensional. What we have witnessed in Anbar where 
the ''enemy of my enemy is also my enemy'' does not necessarily suggest 
that it can apply across the board and may not be a model that can be 
replicated in other provinces and in other cities. Certainly, we should 
use it where it can work and can be applied, but certainly it may not 
be possible in all of the other areas within Iraq, because the common 
enemy within al-Anbar was, of course, al-Qaida.

So I happen to believe it is abundantly apparent that we must send a 
strong message to the Iraqi Government that by linking our continued 
strategy in Iraq to the level of progress they made in attaining the 
political benchmarks they themselves had agreed to were so central to 
securing an Iraqi Nation. After all, by the President's own account, 
the Baghdad Security Plan, the surge, was designed to be the final 
window of opportunity for the Iraqis to institute those benchmarks. 
They had to know it was a window we would close if they did not act 
with commensurate urgency.

That is why, upon my return from Iraq, I, along with my colleague, 
Senator Bayh from Indiana, introduced bipartisan legislation that would 
have required the Iraqi Government to meet the benchmarks outlined by 
the Iraq Study Group and the administration. If the Iraqi Government 
failed to do so, our bill directed that the surge forces would redeploy 
and the remaining forces would transition to a far more limited mission 
that included the training and equipping of the Iraqi forces, assisting 
the deployed Iraqi brigades with intelligence, transportation, air 
support, and logistics, protecting U.S. and coalition personnel and 
infrastructure, and maintaining rapid reaction teams to undertake 
counterterrorism missions against al-Qaida.

I argued in May that we are at a critical juncture and that we were 
at a point where we must be pivoting toward a policy that responsibly 
brings us to a resolution on the future course of America's involvement 
in Iraq. I believed at the time the bipartisan legislation that I 
introduced with Senator Bayh would place the onus and the burden 
rightfully where it belongs--on the Iraqi Government and its political 
leaders to enact and to implement the benchmarks that, again, they 
themselves had pledged to achieve.

Our legislation would have required General Petraeus to come before 
the Congress and testify 14 days following his September report and, if 
the political benchmarks had not been met, to submit a plan on phased 
redeployment of the surge troops associated with the Baghdad security 
plan and a change in mission for all of the troops, consistent, again, 
with the recommendations set forth by the Iraq Study Group report.

Senator Bayh and I crafted the bill with the intent of garnering 
bipartisan support and called for not a mandate but, rather, an 
objective of completing the transition and redeployment 6 months 
later--which would have been approximately the end of March 2008.

As I said at the time, we cannot further countenance political 
intransigence on the part of the Iraqi Government, while our men and 
women are on the front lines confronting sacrifices and making 
sacrifices each and every day. I am pleased that many elements of the 
Snowe-Bayh bill were included in the measure that was drafted by our 
esteemed colleague Senator Warner, which was incorporated into the 
supplemental legislation which the Senate passed on May 24 and that 
became law, which established the 18 benchmarks to evaluate the 
performance of the Iraqi Government.

Yet here we are now, nearly 2 months from the passage of that 
supplemental, and coming off the bloodiest 3-month period for American 
troops since the war began, with 331 deaths in that period, and more 
than 600 since the surge began. And yet, as last week's White House 
interim report only underscored, there still has been no significant 
progress on any of the political benchmarks whatsoever.

Among other failures, they have not passed an oil law which fairly 
divides oil revenue among Iraq's ethnicities and religious sects. Last 
month, the largest Sunni political grouping announced its four Cabinet 
ministers were boycotting the Government and were withdrawing its 44 
members from the Parliament, and there was a ''no confidence'' vote 
scheduled to take place even against Prime Minister Maliki. Perhaps 
most incredible, given this stunning lack of progress, is the fact that 
the Iraqi Parliament will not be in session for the entire month of 
August.

That effectively means that the Iraq Parliament--even assuming--even 
assuming--they can attain the required quorum to conduct their affairs 
given that in the past 2 months, the Parliament has had considerable 
difficulty obtaining a quorum and has rarely had enough members in the 
chamber to vote--has another 3 weeks remaining in session before the 
month of September arrives; all the while, our soldiers continue the 
battle, while the Iraqi Government will take a recess, having failed to 
make significant progress on any of the benchmarks included in 
the supplemental bill we passed 2 months ago.


These stark facts have led our top military, diplomatic, and 
intelligence officials in Iraq to the conclusion that the political 
reconciliation which the surge was meant to facilitate is not being 
undertaken. Last month, General Petraeus stated that conditions in Iraq 
will not improve sufficiently by September to justify a drawdown of 
U.S. military forces.

Thomas Fingar, the Deputy Director of National Intelligence and chief 
of the National Intelligence Council, testifying before the House Armed 
Services Committee last week, stated that while the government of Prime 
Minister Nouri al-Maliki has made ''limited progress on key 
legislation,'' that ''scant common ground between Shias, Sunnis and 
Kurds continues to polarize politics.'' Mr. Fingar even stated that the 
majority Shiite bloc that Maliki heads ''does not present a unified 
front.''

Let us also consider the words of key Iraqi leaders themselves, which 
are even more disturbing and telling. Indeed, Iraq's foreign minister 
said recently that ''These are not your benchmarks, these are our 
goals. Why do you make it yours?'' This, despite the fact that American 
troops are selflessly risking and giving their lives to make it 
possible for such officials to achieve the political, economic, and 
security benchmarks which were agreed to in September of last year by 
Iraq's Political Committee on National Security and reaffirmed by the 
Presidency Council on October 16.

So, frankly, given statements such as these, it is not a surprise 
that, last week, the administration issued a report--the interim 
report--that found that the Iraqi Government had failed to accomplish 
any of these political objectives the Iraqis themselves set.

Let's look at those deadlines and those goals and the track record.

In October 2006, provincial elections law, a date for provincial 
elections, and a new hydrocarbon law--the new oil revenue-sharing law--
were supposed to be approved. But that deadline came and went.

A debaathification law and a provincial council authorities law were 
to be enacted in November. But that deadline came and went.

In December they were to approve a law demobilizing and disarming the


militias. But that deadline came and went.

The Constitutional Review Committee was to complete its work in 
January, independent commissions were to be formed in February, and a 
constitutional amendments referendum was to be held, if required, in 
March. But those deadlines also came and went.

What does it suggest when a U.S. official--and actually it is 
incorporated in the interim report--recently observed that political 
reconciliation is largely trailing any advances in security--calling it 
a ''lagging indicator''? But if the Iraqi Government were truly 
serious, shouldn't concrete steps toward reconciliation be the 
predictor--shouldn't it be a leading indicator--of an inner fortitude 
and intention to accomplish those benchmarks that are supposed to be 
happening in tandem with the surge--if the surge was designed to be 
that window of opportunity, to give the breathing space to the Iraqi 
Government to create the conditions on the ground that will allow them 
to make the political compromises so essential to unifying their 
country?

Security will only come through a belief by the Iraqis that they will 
have a political and economic future. That is why Iraq's fate is in the 
hands of the Iraqi leadership and its Government. The only way they 
will be able to secure their future is to be able to quell the 
sectarian violence, to integrate the minority population, to create 
power-sharing arrangements to diffuse the sectarian conflicts. In that 
way only can Iraq maintain its integrity as a unitary state.

So I ask, if the intelligence community assessed in February that 
''with the current winner-take-all attitude and sectarian animosities 
affecting the political scene the prospects for reconciliation are 
bleak''--that is the intelligence community's assessment--and General 
Petraeus stated in March, ''there is no military solution'' and that 
''a political resolution . . . is crucial,'' and the general is quoted 
in the Air Force Times last month saying ''counterinsurgency is roughly 
. . . 80 percent political,'' as codified in his own counterinsurgency 
manual--and the interesting part about that is in that manual General 
Petraeus states that the host nation has to win it on its own, and that 
is exactly what the surge was all about; it was to allow them to 
accomplish those key political goals that would demonstrate to the 
Iraqi people they had a government that was representative of all the 
people and not just a few--and the Iraqi Government has failed to 
accomplish these political benchmarks that were established by their 
own leadership and the Government of Iraq, then doesn't it make sense 
to begin to choose an alternative course? Because it is difficult to 
see the wisdom of this current strategy without holding the Iraqis 
accountable, the time has come to stand up and to speak out on behalf 
of the American people to say that the current strategy is unacceptable 
and the moment has arrived to change that direction.

That is why I have joined with Senators Levin and Reed on a 
bipartisan basis because in my view, given the record of demonstrated 
inaction on the part of the Iraqi Government, we are now beyond 
nonbinding measures. That is what we have accomplished in the last 6 
months. We considered nonbinding measures. But now we are a mere 2 
months from General Petraeus's September report, with no demonstrable 
evidence to suggest political progress. What time is more important 
than now, as we consider the pending Defense authorization bill, to 
maximize our voice and opportunity to send an unequivocal message that 
if the Iraqis fail to chart a different course politically, then we 
will chart a different course militarily?

The fact is, America requires more than Iraq's commitment to 
accomplishing the benchmarks that will lead to a true national 
reconciliation. We must see demonstrable results. That is why we are at 
this critical juncture. That is the answer to why now and why wait 
until September. Because given all we know, I happen to believe we 
cannot lose precious time in delivering an unmistakable message that 
the Iraqi Government must take the consensus-building measures 
necessary for reconciliation.


For those who characterize this bill as tantamount to a precipitous 
withdrawal, let me say it is neither precipitous nor a withdrawal. I 
urge my colleagues to read the legislation, to read the amendment that 
has been drafted, to actually look at the language. I think it would be 
worthwhile, because I have heard mischaracterizations of what this 
legislation would accomplish. This legislation would result in 
redeployment, a change in mission, and reduced forces, but it does not 
suggest--it does not require--a precipitous withdrawal. In fact, it 
does not do that. It would reduce our troops and change our mission, 
beginning 120 days after passage, while specifically allowing the 
troops to remain for critical missions such as counterinsurgency and 
attacking al-Qaida, providing force protection, as well as training the 
Iraqis--again, goals that are very consistent with the Iraq Study 
Group.

I think it is very important for Members of the Senate to read--to 
actually read--the language which has been incorporated in the 
amendment that is pending before the Senate, because it requires a very 
different mandate than has been described here on the floor of the 
Senate. It is not a precipitous withdrawal. In fact, it allows the 
discretion to maintain troops by the commanders in order to complete 
those missions as described in the amendment that would allow us to 
continue to train the Iraqis and to fight al-Qaida.

Some of my colleagues have also opined that this proposal will limit 
the President's ability to conduct the war on terror. Last week we 
heard the President state that we are working to defeat al-Qaida and 
other extremists and aid the rise of an Iraqi Government that can 
protect its people. Well, again, this amendment rightly does nothing to 
detract from that objective. In fact, as I said, the amendment defers 
to the commanders on the group to determine the number of troops and 
forces necessary to fight al-Qaida.

Specifically, the amendment empowers the Secretary of Defense to 
deploy and maintain members of the Armed Forces in Iraq to engage in 
targeted counterterrorism operations against al-Qaida, al-Qaida-
affiliated groups, and other international terrorist organizations, 
which encompasses maintaining Iraq's territorial integrity against 
terrorist groups, including those backed by foreign countries. So that 
is the reality of the language which has been included in this 
amendment that is pending before the Senate--not as some have 
described.

Furthermore, this measure would not take effect until 120 days after 
the passage of this legislation--after the passage of the Defense 
authorization. Let me note that in the last 4 years, the earliest 
approval of the National Defense Authorization Act occurred on October 
17. That was the earliest date in which it became law in each of the 
last 4 years. So this isn't rash. This is reasoned, and this is 
responsible. Indeed, the language crafted by Senator Hagel in the 
amendment also seeks to internationalize our effort by calling on the 
U.N. to appoint an international mediator in Iraq and that the auspices 
of the United Nations Security Council, which has the authority of the 
international community to engage political, religious, ethnic, and 
tribal leaders in Iraq, and include them in the political process. This 
mediator will seek to bridge the divide between the competing sects to 
bring stability to Iraq and prevent a spillover into a civil war.

The Levin-Reed amendment specifically states it shall be implemented 
as part of a comprehensive, diplomatic, political, and economic 
strategy that includes sustained engagement with Iraq's neighbors and 
the international community for the purposes of working collectively to 
bring stability to Iraq. As the Baker-Hamilton report concluded, Iraqi 
political accommodations can be achieved only within a constructive 
regional framework supported by the international community, a 
statement that I believe highlights the necessity now in the United 
States to refocus its policy, its leadership, and its resources on 
directly helping the Iraqis to establish an inclusive political 
framework to begin to diffuse the violence.

Finally, to those with concerns about the April conclusion date 
included in the Levin-Reed amendment, let me also point out this is not 
an arbitrary date the Congress imposed but, rather,


it reflects the reality on the ground. The ability to maintain this 
large force in Iraq becomes virtually impossible because of the overall 
size of the Army. We cannot sustain current troop levels in Iraq 
indefinitely. General Peter Shoomaker, the prior Army Chief of Staff, 
testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee in March that 
sustaining the troop increase in Iraq beyond August would be a 
challenge, he said. In fact, Andrew Krepinevich of the Center for 
Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, told the Senate Armed Services 
Committee in April that our ground forces, the Army in particular, are 
''broken'' or in danger of ''breaking.'' The reality is that without 
significantly changing the force structure or employing a ''different 
force mix,'' we must begin to redeploy.

The bottom line is this is a defining moment. It is a defining moment 
for America's policy in Iraq and it is a defining moment for the 
Senate--indeed, the entire Congress--as to whether we are now prepared 
to assert our legislative prerogatives and authorities that are not 
without precedent, as I said earlier, to direct a different course and 
to alter our strategy--a strategy that reality warrants and demands. 
The decision before us is one of grave consequence because it is a 
matter of war. It demands that we look past the rhetoric and the 
partisanship which often enshrouds and clouds many of the most 
significant issues of our time, and that is certainly true with respect 
to this war.

We expect passion to run high, but I hope it doesn't create the 
inability on the part of our collective wisdom and desire to do what is 
right and what is best for our country and for the men and women in 
uniform who are on the front lines each and every day performing 
magnificent sacrifices, as we all well know, with the loss of lives we 
have experienced in each of our States across this country. Frankly, if 
it weren't for those men and women, you know, we wouldn't be the 
greatest Nation on Earth, because they have woven the fabric for 
greatness for this country throughout the generations.

So I would hope that at this moment in time, we can rise to the 
occasion and that in spite of the spirited debate, we can come together 
to try to resolve this major question, because that is what the 
American people want. That is what my constituents want in the State of 
Maine. They are hoping and praying we can come together and unite and 
to do what is right for this country at this most challenging and 
vexing and consequential moment in our Nation's history. I hope we can 
live up to the moniker of the Senate as the world's greatest 
deliberative body, because certainly that moment is upon us.


Thank you, Mr. President.