---
---

# None
## `dcf70dc6b53b06ecd5d8286489dad377`
`Mr. DODD — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, I thought I might take a couple of minutes 
toward the close of the day and share with my colleagues where we stand 
on the matter of the housing proposal we have been on since the middle 
of last week. I wish to again thank Majority Leader Reid. Without his 
leadership, we would not be here. We would not be in a position to 
actually do some things that are critically important to work our way 
out of this mess our country is in when it comes to the foreclosure 
crisis, the problems Americans are facing, not to mention the contagion 
effects that are moving this issue beyond housing into other aspects of 
our economy. It was Majority Leader Reid who reached out to the 
Republican leader, suggesting we try to get together, Democrats and 
Republicans, on a compromise proposal to move to and then deal with 
other issues where we could, where there was some consensus, to then be 
able to meet with the other body to see if we couldn't resolve 
outstanding questions dealing with the issue of housing and 
foreclosure.

As I have said over and over for the last week since Senator Shelby 
and I spent that 24 hours we were given--not a great deal of time, 
considering the number of issues involved in this question--to come 
back with a package that represented Democrats' and Republicans' common 
points on this question, there were a lot of issues Democrats wanted, 
that I wanted, there were issues Republicans wanted that the other side 
was not willing to agree to, and that was the charge we were to avoid, 
to come back with a package on matters we could agree on, which is not 
always easy in a Senate that is divided 51 to 49, where the margins are 
narrow and the differences are significant. But nonetheless, we did 
that.

This package includes positive provisions. One, we are going to get 
an FHA modernization bill. That has been kicking around for a long 
time. We took those loan limits from, I think it is $362,000 up to 
$550,000. There were some 19 States that would have been excluded from 
the FHA program or at least parts of States that would have been 
excluded, such as California, my own State of Connecticut, candidly, 
Massachusetts, New Jersey, many States, New York. There are pockets in 
these States where even the average cost of a home is higher. So the 
loan limits went up. FHA modernization does other good as well, an 
important point.

The issue of counseling, last year we appropriated $42 million 
nationwide for counseling services to deal with the housing crisis--
hardly enough to deal


with the demands people had on counseling. Senator Bond and I offered 
an amendment last year and got $180 million for counseling services 
which we thought contributed, and it did, to assisting groups across 
the country, nonprofits to work with those facing foreclosure or in 
highly distressed mortgages to work out those differences.

I would have liked to have added $200 million more to the counseling 
program. That is a proposal Senator Murray, who cares deeply about this 
issue, Senator Schumer, who cares about the issue, and others wanted to 
bring up. When we sat down to negotiate that issue, there was little or 
no appetite for any additional money in the counseling area. So we 
compromised between the 200 and zero and came up with $100 million. I 
would have liked more. But again, we were directed and asked by the 
leadership to try to develop a set of consensus ideas. Again, there may 
be other amendments--there was on this--to add additional funds to it.


We provided money for community development block grants to assist 
communities that have a lot of distressed properties or foreclosed 
properties. I have made the case over and over what this can do to a 
community and neighborhood. When you have a single foreclosed property, 
the value of every other home in that neighborhood or the surrounding 
area can decline in value immediately. What you don't need is more 
supply out there. Right now we are overloaded with supply. It is one of 
the reasons why the market is not doing as much in correcting this 
problem, because of the oversupply of housing. So when we do what we 
can to clean up housing, to get it back on the market and hopefully get 
people into that housing, it not only benefits the people who get to 
purchase a home, but it also does a lot to increase the value of the 
surrounding homes, not to mention, of course, stabilizing a declining 
property tax base, which supports police, fire, social services, all 
the other issues that are adversely affected when you have a foreclosed 
property or properties in your neighborhood or community. So that was a 
major achievement in this bill.

I would have liked some additional funds for community development 
block grants. It is a very good program. It works very well. To target 
these resources into that area is something we can applaud in this 
legislation.

We also have offered some tax credits for people who move into 
foreclosed properties. It is a 2-year deal. It involves about $3,500 a 
year in tax credits. The idea is to get this property back on the tax 
rolls, to get people into the property so, again, you stabilize 
neighborhoods before you end up with further declining values and 
erosion in these areas, blight, all the other problems that happen.

How big a problem can that be? Let me tell you how big that can be. I 
have one community in my State that I have talked about where there are 
6,000 foreclosures in a city of 100,000 people. Let me tell you what 
that looks like in a city. Imagine if you end up with 6,000 boarded-up 
properties in a city of 100,000 people or less. Obviously, the value of 
every other home in that city is going to be adversely affected. So 
while people said: I don't think you ought to be providing a tax credit 
to get owner-occupied people into these homes, well, you can make a 
case for that, but I think we all benefit if we can get someone into 
that property, clean it up. That is taxes coming into the community. 
The value of surrounding homes I think are benefited from it. So again, 
I think that is a good provision. It was offered here. It has to be 
foreclosed property. You have to live in the house for a period of 
time. It doesn't invite speculation or involve new properties. It is 
foreclosed properties.

We also had a number of provisions to deal with veterans. Again, I 
thank Senator John Kerry, Senator Dan Akaka of Hawaii, Senator Coleman, 
among others, Senator Sanders of Vermont. All had ideas on how we could 
assist our men and women in uniform who are facing not only the 
difficulty of being in the military service today, potentially serving 
in Afghanistan and Iraq, but also facing potential foreclosures. We 
have done a lot in this bill to make sure they are not going to be 
adversely affected.

It may not seem like much or a lot of people, but the fact that we 
could do something to help mayors and local governments with foreclosed 
properties, as well as providing some way for people to get into these 
homes, is a positive step, not to mention the FHA modernization, the 
mortgage revenue bonds, $1.6 billion, not exactly a small amount of 
money, designed specifically to get people into fixed rate affordable 
mortgages that they can work out. That is going to be a tremendous 
asset to people.

There are some related matters we probably have to deal with in the 
Tax Code so it could be even more potent, but it is a major 
accomplishment in this bill that is something we can applaud again and 
celebrate as being very helpful. In fact, this is the $10 billion in 
mortgage revenue bond authority included in this proposal.

There are other provisions in the bill. Frankly, there are some that 
go too far. I am the first to admit it. But I was asked to try to put 
something together. In doing so, I wished to have a provision in here 
that I cared deeply about and that is the home preservation idea, where 
we could forestall the ability of people. In the ultimate situation, 
where you provide money to mayors to clean up, why not stop foreclosure 
in the first place. I have talked about it since January. There is, I 
think, sort of a growing constituency that understands this and has 
offered some ideas on how to be supportive. But I couldn't get my own 
idea in this bill as the negotiator. I tried to convince my good friend 
from Alabama and others this was a provision I thought we ought to have 
in this bill.

He has some very legitimate questions about it. A good set of 
hearings probably will accomplish it. This Thursday, we are going to 
have a hearing on this idea and other ideas in the Banking Committee 
and a hearing the following week as well because we would like to have 
a couple hearings on it. My hope is that at the conclusion, we can have 
a markup and, along with some other provisions the Presiding Officer is 
aware of, as a member of the committee, we can bring back as a package, 
hopefully, in a bipartisan way, that we can move through this Chamber 
that will contribute some answers to this economic crisis that has as 
its center the foreclosure crisis.

My own provision is not part of this package as much as I wanted it 
and argued for it. But I couldn't get it included at all. So there are 
things I would have liked to have had in this bill that are not here.

There are some things in this bill that I think go too far. I will be 
the first to admit it. But I have learned over the years that if you 
wait for the perfect, you don't get much. In this body with 100 
Members, with very different views on a lot of these matters, you do 
your best. Particularly when you are divided 51 to 49, it is hard to 
develop that kind of consensus. But that is what it is, and that is how 
you get legislation passed. You begin to have to move on it. That is 
why I am urging my colleagues and I am grateful for the vote on 
cloture. I don't like to cut off debate for anyone on matters where 
certain amendments may not then survive a postcloture motion. But we 
need to come to some closure on this.

I would say to the Presiding Officer as well that there are about 15 
or 20 amendments that are going to be worked out, I think, that various 
people have offered in addition to what is in the core provisions here 
that we are working hard on, the adjoining staff, to try to accommodate 
where we can. So in addition to the core provisions, there are other 
ideas that have come forward that we hope to have included in this 
final product that we can produce, hopefully, by tomorrow.

But we are pretty much done with the debate. We have debated this a 
lot. People know or can find out whether their amendments are germane 
or survive postcloture or would avoid an objection being filed against 
them. If that is the case and they want to come over and let Senator 
Shelby and me talk about them and listen to people's ideas, it is still 
possible some additional ideas can be included.

I have been told there are some people who are just going to object 
to anything that comes up. I would wish that would not be the case, but 
that is a right Members have. They have the


right to object to anything because it takes unanimous consent to bring 
up these matters. If you do not get the consent, it does not come up. 
So I know the Democratic leader, working with the Republican leader, is 
trying to convince those Members who have blanket objections to 
anything to remove those objections and to allow some of these ideas to 
come up to be considered as part of this package.

We then have to go through the process of meeting with the other 
body. Congressman Barney Frank, the chairman of the Financial Services 
Committee of the House, is working on a similar package or related 
package. I am never going to get there to work out some differences, 
some of the different ideas that may become a part of this legislation, 
if I do not leave here. We cannot solve this problem by talking to 
ourselves. We are going to have to sit down and talk with people who 
have different points of view on this if we are going to come up with 
some common answers.

So that is sort of the status of play here at 6:30 this evening. 
There is no reason why we need to exhaust 30 hours. There is a lot of 
other work to be done in this body on other matters. This is not the 
only issue that is before this Congress.

So my hope would be that tomorrow morning, for those who have 
additional ideas who want to come over, for those who are waiting to 
see if we can get some answers, that we do that. I am prepared to spend 
the time to try to work things out where we can and to say to those 
where we cannot work it out: I am sorry, I cannot accommodate every 
Member who has an idea on this bill. Beyond that, we need to come to 
closure and move on. My hope would be we would not have to wait until 9 
p.m. tomorrow night to arrive at that point.

I am more than happy to yield back time under the 30 hours, as I am 
confident Senator Shelby would be, but we do not want to do that 
without giving our colleagues an opportunity to be heard on these 
matters.

So I will urge colleagues in the morning, if they would come over and 
bring their ideas or at least if they have amendments to bring them up. 
We can vote on some of these. Some may carry, some may not, but allow 
us to move forward and have a final vote on this package and then go 
back to work in the committee to bring out these additional ideas we 
have been talking about, as well as to get to a conference with the 
other body to try to resolve what is in this bill and what they will 
offer themselves.

With that, Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to add Senators 
Kohl and Carper as cosponsors to amendment No. 4489, as submitted by 
Senator McCaskill.