---
---

# HONORING FALLEN MARINE LANCE CPL. GARRETT GAMBLE
## `dcfa5c9a280151e36f3ed7817bb69abc`
`Mr. OLSON — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Lance Cpl. Garrett 
Gamble. Garrett died in the Helmand province, Afghanistan on March 
11th, 2010.

In honor of Garrett's life and service, I submit the following poem, 
penned by Albert Cafrey Caswell.















 Garrett's Gift



 Garrett's!


 Garrett's gift!


 So Brilliant, and Bright!


 So Magnificent, this light!


 So all of this!


 So Brave, This Light!


 As That Last Full Measure . . .


 Was but Garrett's fine gift, this night!


 A United States Marine!


 Who upon battlefields of honor, was seen!


 Seen . . . Marching, into that valley of death. . . .


 With no regrets!


 As shone, his most brilliant sheen! His quest!


 As he took, all of those most courageous steps!


 But worn upon his fine chest, all in courage's crest!


 Giving all, until none lie left!


 For all of his most beloved Brothers In Arms, to bless!


 All in a Hero's quest, all To Be The Best!


 As a Freedom Fighter, no less!


 For such lights come, only from one's soul so bright!


 To but vanquish the darkness, and bring The Light!


 All in what you have done, all in your short life. . . !


 A Mother cries, as her fine son has died . . . as she asks 





 why?


 Fine comfort! One day up in Heaven, he will be by your side!


 Thy Will Be Done!


 For you Garrett my son, are but the Brightest of All Ones!


 Because, moments are all we have!


 To Grab Hearts, To Make Difference . . . To Heaven Rise!


 All in your most magnificent shades of green! You United 





 States Marine . . .


 And when there comes a gentle rain, all across Sugar Land. . 





 . .


 Our Lord's tears will remain, with your Mother to ease pain!


 For Heaven has just gotten stronger, as a new Marine belongs 





 there!


 And as the tears roll down our cheeks, remember what 





 brilliance can be!


 And remember all of this, and remember Garrett's Gift!


 Amen!
