# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `dd096219f919263115e7b7f98847739b`
`Mr. BISHOP of New York — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. BISHOP of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the 
U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act. I 
concede that the legislation we are voting on today is by no means 
perfect, but I do believe it is a step in the right direction and 
deserves the support of those Americans who want to bring this 
misguided and mismanaged war to a responsible and timely conclusion.

In an ideal world, we would bring our troops home today, but that 
doesn't match the reality of our struggle in Iraq. We have an even 
smaller chance of accomplishing that goal in the Senate. The bill 
before us represents the best opportunity to affect the conduct of this 
war.

The benchmarks established within the supplemental are the same as 
those proposed by the President in January, the Iraq Study Group, and 
endorsed by Iraqi leaders. They include real consequences for the Iraqi 
government and a definite timeline for a phased and deliberate 
redeployment of American combat forces from Iraq by no later than 
August 2008. The bill provides what is currently missing in the 
President's policies--a plan to redeploy our troops from a situation 
that cannot be improved by their continued presence.

It's unmistakable that our presence in Iraq has weakened our Armed 
Forces and jeopardized our standing in the world. It has also diverted 
valuable resources away from fighting al Qaeda in Afghanistan, tracking 
down Osama bin Laden, and preventing another terrorist attack against 
America. The supplemental not only provides a new direction in Iraq, 
but also redirects resources to fight the real global war on terrorism.

To all of those who argue that passage of this legislation would mean 
conceding defeat to the terrorists, I would say both that they are 
wrong, and that the alternative they endorse is unacceptable. For what 
they propose is simply ''stay the course,'' more of the same--more 
deaths, more life altering injuries, more destruction, more squandered 
opportunity, more debt, and more diminished standing in the world. This 
legislation is about sending a message to the President that he cannot 
pursue the same failed strategy of the past 4 years and receive a blank 
check from this Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I am opposed to this war. I believe the decision to 
invade Iraq is the single most devastating and misguided foreign policy 
decision our Nation has ever made. I will vote for the supplemental 
because I believe it is the best course available to us at this time to 
bring our involvement in this misguided tragedy to an end.