---
---

# None
## `dd10aca2e610e98b9ab15dbefa5a9702`
`Mr. LEAHY — 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. I may need it.

Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, 
Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.

In case anybody missed that, these are the States which will lose if 
my colleagues do not adopt the Leahy-Thomas, et al amendment. These 
States will lose if my colleagues adopt the amendment of the Senator 
from California: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, 
Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Hawaii, Idaho, 
Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, 
Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New 
Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina, 
South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, 
Wisconsin, and Wyoming. The Senators from those States, of course, feel 
free to vote any way they want, but should anybody be checking back 
home, they should know what their vote means.


I hope my colleagues will support the Leahy-Thomas amendment, No. 
333, to restore the minimum allocation for States in the State Homeland 
Security Grant Program from .45 percent, which is proposed by the 
underlying bill, and bring it back to current law. We are not asking 
for an increase but bring it back to current law, which is .75 percent. 
If you don't, the proposed changes in the formula result in the loss of 
millions in homeland security funding for the fire, police and rescue 
departments in small- and medium-sized States. It will also deal a 
crippling blow to dozens of States' efforts to fulfill federally 
mandated multiyear plans to build and to sustain their terrorism 
preparedness.

What I am saying is, the Federal Government has said: Here, small 
States, cities, communities. Here is what we are saying you have to do. 
Initially, they said: We will give you some money to help. But now we 
are going to say: You still have to do it, but tax your people to do 
it. We don't have the money. We are going to send it to the Iraqi fire 
departments and to the Iraqi police departments. We are going to send 
it to the Iraqi homeland security. We can't spend it on your State.

As with current law, the State minimum under our amendment would 
continue to apply--and this is important--only to 40 percent of the 
overall funding under this program. The majority of the funds would 
continue to be allocated based on risk assessment criteria, which are 
the funds of several separate discretionary programs the Congress has 
established for solely urban and high-risk areas. A lot of these 
smaller States have voted for these extra amounts for these urban and 
high-risk areas. I think it is a good idea. The majority of the funds 
are not allocated to these smaller States or to areas based on risk 
assessment requirements. The underlying bill now before the Senate 
would reduce the all-State minimum. The House bill reduces it even 
further.

We know, however, that this is a matter that is going to face the 
conference anyway, and because of these formula differences, there is 
no guarantee that the minimum will not even further be slashed during 
conference. Small- and medium-sized States face enormous cuts. With 
appropriations for formula grants already being cut by 60 percent since 
2003--$2.3 billion in 2003 to $900 million in fiscal year 2007--further 
reductions to first-responder funding would hamper even more these 
States' efforts. The cuts would be even deeper should the President's 
budget request for next year be approved,


since he has requested only $250 million for these two important first 
responder grant programs.

I am almost tempted to tell some of these small States and towns to 
change their names to Baghdad or northern Iraq or something similar to 
that and they will get all the money they want but not if they want to 
defend their own people here in the United States. I have heard the 
argument from urban States, arguing that Federal money to fight 
terrorism is wasted in smaller States. They seem to forget that the 
attacks on 9/11 added to the responsibilities and the risks of all the 
State and local first responders nationwide. The Federal Government has 
called on all of them, and the portion that is allocated to all 
States--again, only a portion of these funds--is part of the Federal 
Government's fulfillment of that directive.

I hope my colleagues will support my amendment to restore the .75-
percent minimum base and ensure continued support and resources for our 
police, fire, and ambulance services in every State. Homeland security 
is a new responsibility entrusted to our first responders, and this 
program, along with this assurance of basic help--not the special help 
that goes to the large States but the special help that goes where we 
see special needs--but this basic help will make a big difference.

Madam President, how much time do I have?