---
---

# COLLEGE STUDENT RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `dd1b24ff1bca82b262ad80f998935dbf`
`Mr. ANDREWS — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. ANDREWS. I thank my friend for yielding.

Madam Speaker, this debate is about a promise broken and a promise 
kept. When President Bush ran for President the first time in 2000, he 
promised to make the maximum Pell Grant $5,100 per year. Today, the 
maximum Pell Grant is $4,050 per year. It is true that the erstwhile 
majority spent more money on Pell Grants, but it is also true that 
many, many more people were eligible for Pell Grants and the value of 
the Pell Grant shrunk during the tenure of the erstwhile majority. The 
new majority is keeping a promise to significantly reduce student loan 
rates for students across this country. And we are keeping, in my view, 
a more important promise, to pay for keeping that promise by not adding 
to the deficit.

Unlike the tax breaks for the wealthiest 1 percent of the people in 
this country, this bill doesn't add to the deficit. Unlike the 
seemingly endless misadventure in Iraq, this bill doesn't add to the 
deficit. Unlike the huge tax breaks for the energy industry at a time 
when they receive the most profit in their history, this bill doesn't 
add to the deficit. The ways that this bill is paid for invite careful 
review of how we balance the direct and private loan programs and they 
invite careful review of how we adjust the present programs. But this 
bill is paid for.

This is the change that the American people voted for, help for the 
middle class, not increasing the deficit, and pay-as-you-go. I am 
delighted to hear that at least two of our colleagues on the other side 
will vote ''yes'' on this bill. I hope, Madam Speaker, that dozens or 
even hundreds of our colleagues on the other side will join us in 
voting ''yes'' in favor of middle-class students and deficit reduction.