# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `dd1cc293d2978ec3fb78e61733817653`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 20 May 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Madam President, I am very pleased to rise now to 
offer this amendment on behalf of a bipartisan group: Senators Thune, 
Begich, Graham, and Burris, all of us members of the Armed Services 
Committee.

I take the floor today to speak on their behalf and mine for a 
constituency that every Member of the Senate represents; and that is, 
the men and women who serve in the U.S. Army.

On September 11, 2001, the Army's active-duty strength was just 
480,000, after a decade in which we in Congress cut it nearly in half 
after the Cold War ended.

In the wake of the terrorist attacks of September 11, many Members of 
Congress urged a major expansion of the military and the Army for the 
years of war that were clearly ahead. But, unfortunately, that did not 
happen. We watched with growing concern as our soldiers--members of a 
force too small for the missions we had assigned to them--served 
through repeated deployments, heroically, but under increasing stress.

Finally, 3 years ago, the administration and Congress increased the 
size of the active-duty component of the U.S. Army from 480,000--the 
level on 9/11--to 547,400. That was to be realized over a period of 
years.

In February of this year, the Army reached that goal well ahead of 
the schedule that had been originally anticipated, fortunately, because 
every man and woman who joined the Army is necessary and has been 
critically necessary. So now we actually have 549,000 active-duty 
soldiers.

Recall that I said the statutory end strength of the Army is 547,400. 
So the Army now is literally at a strength greater than its current 
authorization. This achievement expresses the patriotic commitment of 
the American men and women who have answered the call of duty. In other 
words, recruitments and reenlistments have been so high that there are 
more people in the Army than the statutory end strength.

But there is still not enough. I will explain why.

Growing the force was clearly necessary to support our troops in the 
Army, our soldiers who are bearing the major responsibility for the 
wars we have been fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. But these increased 
numbers simply have not proved sufficient to relieve the continued 
strain on our soldiers. That is what this amendment intends to do 
during the remainder of this fiscal year, covered by this supplemental 
appropriations bill.

I want to talk about dwell time. It is a term the military uses. What 
is ''dwell time''? It is down time but not R&R time. It is time that is 
spent back here at home in the bases, with the families, not just 
recovering from the last deployment, but also, obviously, preparing and 
training and upgrading for the next. And perhaps most significantly to 
the men and women of the Army, it is precious time for our soldiers to 
spend with their families.

Today, dwell time of members of the U.S. Army is about slightly more 
than 1 to 1. That means for every year of deployment, they are back 
home at the base, training, preparing, spending time with their family, 
for a year--1 to 1.

General Casey said--and everybody in our military says--that is 
simply inadequate; too much duty, too quickly, too much stress on our 
men and women in the U.S. Army, in the military.

General Casey said he has the goal to get the ratio to 1 to 2--2 
years at home for every 1 year out at war--and to do so by 2011. In 
fact, he would like to take it higher than the 1 to 2--beyond that--
hoping that our conflicts we are in in Iraq and Afghanistan do not 
require that many American military by that time.

Incidentally, the dwell-time ratio is particularly dire for a 
category in our Army called ''enablers.'' They are involved as Army 
aviators, engineers, people involved in intelligence, surveillance, and 
reconnaissance work. They really are under dwell-time pressure.

As the Presiding Officer knows, the Obama administration is 
implementing what I consider to be a very responsible strategy, and a 
correct strategy, for drawing down our force in Iraq. But if you 
combine the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, and the planned increase in Army 
presence in Afghanistan, as we slowly decrease in Iraq, Army 
deployments will actually increase for the rest of this year.

This is what General Casey, the Army Chief of Staff, said to the 
Armed Services Committee the other day: It is a simple question of 
supply and demand. If the supply of the Army stays only constant or 
even goes down, and yet the demand--which is the increasing deployments 
for at least the remainder of this year, and probably well into next 
year--goes up, the dwell time--the time these soldiers of ours, heroes 
of ours, have to spend away from the war zone back at base--will not 
rise from the unacceptable level it is at now.

Our military leadership has made clear in public statements that 
things are going to get worse before they get better.

Army Chief of Staff Casey recently warned that the number of deployed 
soldiers will actually, as I said, rise through the rest of the year. 
Admiral Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the Senate 
Armed Services Committee last week that the Army faces a ''very rough 
time'' over at least the next 2 years before it reaches what Admiral 
Mullen called the ''light at the end of the tunnel.''

Keep in mind, these predictions do not reflect or absorb the 
possibility of a new crisis or new crises elsewhere in the world 
outside of Iraq and Afghanistan--what such a crisis would place in the 
way of additional demands on our soldiers--a possibility that recent 
experience warns us to at least keep in mind as a possibility.

So we are in a situation now where we have a constant level of 
soldiers on Active Duty, demand in the short term going up, and, 
therefore, dwell time--time away from the battlefield--not rising. This 
equation leads to strain and stress on our soldiers. Unfortunately, 
there are facts that show this strain and stress. The Army is on track 
this year to overtake the grim record of suicides of our Active-Duty 
Army personnel that we saw last year, in 2008. The murder a week or two 
ago of five soldiers by a fellow soldier in Baghdad was a devastating 
example, I fear, of the stress on our deployed force. We hear 
increasingly stories of the stress on the families back home. Any of us 
who have visited military bases, spoken to the families, hear this 
constantly as a growing appeal to do something to increase the dwell 
time. The fact is, we are not, and that really does hurt.

I think we can say--as was said the other day at an Armed Services 
Committee hearing by witnesses before us from the Defense Department 
who were talking about all we are doing to improve the quality of life 
of our men and women in uniform, including housing for their families, 
health care, childcare, et cetera, et cetera--benefits--all true. So we 
are improving the benefits to our men and women in the


U.S. Army, but so long as there are not enough of them, which there are 
not today, the major factor of stress, which is how often, how many 
times are they going to be sent back to Iraq and Afghanistan, or how 
frequently, will not change. That is what this amendment aims to do 
something about.

I wish to make clear what is obvious to everyone: that our Army is 
not broken. This is the greatest--this is the next greatest generation 
of the American military, performing with unbelievable skill, heroism, 
resilience, agility, and personal compassion in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Our Army is not broken, but it is, as General Casey said the other day, 
out of balance. Secretary of the Army Geren said--summarizing this part 
of his testimony before the Armed Services Committee--the U.S. Army is 
''busy, stretched, and stressed.'' And he is right. We have to give 
those heroes in uniform some help, and the best help we can give them 
is more people in uniform fighting alongside them.

Here is a strange twist. In the face of the current crisis in 
manpower, the administration has been forced to effectively direct the 
Army to not only stop growing but to actually shrink by the end of the 
year as deployments overseas increase, dropping back from over 549,000 
soldiers to the statutory limit of 547,400. In other words, this 
supplemental appropriations bill closes a gap that existed in the 
Army's ability to pay for the 547,400 they are entitled to, but they 
are still over by 1,600 soldiers. Therefore, there is a guidance out 
that directs the Army to take drastic measures to cut back; in fact, 
reducing their recruiting goals this year by 13,000 soldiers, which the 
Army knows it can meet, and cutting its retention goal by 10,000 
troops, which the Army also knows it can meet. So here we have this 
ironic--really worse than that--moment where we need more troops and 
more soldiers and the Army is going to be forced to cut back.

I must tell my colleagues that I think it is going to be hard to 
shrink the Army in this way by the end of this year because so many of 
our troops are reenlisting, which is quite remarkable--so committed to 
the cause, proud of their service, want to keep fighting for the United 
States alongside the others in their unit. Obviously, some are affected 
by the economy and the instability and difficulty in finding job 
opportunities in the economy.

So I think it would be a terrible mistake to order the Army to cut 
its ranks at this time, which would mean less dwell time for our 
soldiers. That is why Senators Graham, Begich, Thune, Burris, and I 
introduced this bipartisan amendment which would enable the Army to 
maintain its current strength and continue to grow for the remainder of 
this fiscal year as the Secretary of Defense determines. No compulsion 
here.

Current law forces the Army to get smaller before the end of the 
year. This amendment would say it can grow beyond the 547,400 within 
the limit of the waiver that the Army has, and it provides the money to 
do that, which is an additional $400 million for the remainder of this 
fiscal year--frankly, a small price. It is a significant amount of 
money, but when we think about the impact it will have on the lives of 
just about every man and woman wearing the proud uniform of the U.S. 
Army, it is more than worth it.

I wish to explain, while I have a moment and while I see no one else 
on the Senate floor, that the amendment literally will increase the 
minimum end strength for the Active-Duty Army from the statutory level 
it is at now up to 547,400. When that point is reached, it gives the 
Secretary of the Army a 2-percent waiver, and that means that working 
with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Army could actually 
raise the Army as high as 558,000 by the end of the fiscal year. I 
don't expect that to be possible in the next few months, but it gives 
that latitude and the money to back it up.

The second part of the amendment provides additional funds to help 
the Army cover the immediate personnel shortfall it faces because of 
the toll the ongoing conflicts are taking on the force.

If I may add just this final argument of reality. The Vice Chief of 
Staff, Peter Chiarelli, told the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on 
Readiness last month that the Army has about 30,000 soldiers among that 
current 549,000 who are, for one reason or another--three reasons, 
actually--not available to meet the requirements of the Army, not able 
to be directly involved.

For example, nearly 10,000 soldiers now either serve as Wounded 
Warriors or support their recovery, while thousands more are not 
deployable because of injuries they have suffered, often not in 
conflict, but that are, nonetheless, though less severe, disabling 
enough that they can't be deployed. So the truth is, there already is a 
30,000-gap beneath the 549,000 that is on the books as actively 
deployed.

The best way to honor the sacrifice and service of these soldiers 
will be to ensure that their brothers and sisters in arms go to battle 
with reinforcements who can take their place; to guarantee that the 
Army can build those enabler units I talked about that the service 
needs most now on the front lines in Afghanistan and Iraq--and both 
battlefields are now beginning to compete for those uniquely trained 
enablers; and to provide the Army leadership with the flexibility it 
needs to have the manpower for the theater while giving our troops more 
time at home.

I wish to go to two final questions. Would growing the force today 
relieve the strain on the force when it matters most? And is this a 
proposal we can afford? In terms of the first, we know the greatest 
demand in the theater falls upon our most junior soldiers, such as the 
Army's privates and specialists who face the most difficult dwell time 
ratios in the force and keep going back and forth.

If we commit to growing the force now, these are the types of troops 
we can recruit, train, and deploy in this time of greatest need, and we 
can retain them. In short, if provided the additional personnel, the 
U.S. Army can definitely use them and use them well.

In terms of the second question, of course, I am concerned about the 
long-term costs of increasing the size of the force. The price of 
military personnel has risen over the past decade because we better 
recognize the service of our soldiers, and we are taking better care of 
them. Nonetheless, I don't see how we can explain to our soldiers and 
their families that we in Congress decided that we could not afford 
reinforcements at a time when the force is so stressed under the strain 
of war and still performing so brilliantly.

The Army is not broken, I wish to stress. It is out of balance, and 
it needs our support to come into balance. This amendment would provide 
the funds to give the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of 
Defense the option--not mandatory--to raise the number of Active-Duty 
military personnel, from now until the end of this fiscal year, to a 
level above--slightly above--the 547,400 now statutorily authorized.

I hope our colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join us in 
giving this amendment unanimous support. I honestly think it is just 
about the best thing we can do for the heroes of the U.S. Army who 
serve us every day to protect our security and our freedom.

I thank the Chair. I suggest the absence of a quorum.