---
---

# RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `dd4109aaf3e0a6439cd3bf7e49ca46b2`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 27 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I strongly oppose this 
amendment striking the bus security grant provided in this bill.

The underlying jurisdiction of this particular subcommittee and 
Homeland Security includes responsibility of over-the-road buses. We 
plan to look even more extensively at the necessary security 
requirements of making sure that people who travel in bus 
transportation likewise deserve the coverage and security that we can 
provide. More people ride over-the-road buses and more communities and 
destinations are served by those buses than any other form of intercity 
passenger transportation.

Jitney-type buses are not the only forms of buses, but they are part 
of the bus transportation of this country. Buses and bus terminals have 
been the targets of suicide bombers in countries like Iraq, Israel, 
Pakistan, and elsewhere in the world. The question for the Homeland 
Security Department and the Homeland Security Committee is to be 
preventative in front of the tragedy, not behind it. This legislation 
is to get us in front, to look at areas that we have not looked at 
before.

Worldwide over the last 80 years, 47 percent of surface 
transportation terrorist attacks have involved buses. We have seen the 
horrific tragedy. We have seen the loss of lives, the loss of lives of 
children. We must invest the money needed to protect bus passengers; 
and I believe the gentleman's amendment may be well-intended but, 
frankly, underestimates the need of security measures for buses and 
undermines the bill.

I would ask my colleagues to oppose this amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.