# NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ASSISTANCE AND SELF-DETERMINATION  REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `dd43a461b4bc6330e49b4b793621335b`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. I thank the gentleman.

The gentleman from Georgia misunderstands my view.

What I want is fiscal discipline. What I object to is the very 
selective application of that to people who are in need. The gentleman 
from Iowa says we are going to restore freedom.

I don't think the freedom of Navajo children that live in inadequate 
housing is something worth defending. I am especially struck by the 
fact that we are about to ask the President to spend tens of billions 
more where we spent hundreds of billions in the war in Iraq.

I offered an amendment a year ago to restrict spending on a manned 
space shot to Mars. I lost on the floor of this House.

I don't know how every Member voted. I do know a majority of the 
Republican Party voted against me because the President wanted to send 
a man to Mars.

I voted against the Agriculture bill. I voted for an amendment that 
would have cut the spending there. But to be accused of being careless 
with the taxpayers' money by people who have supported this enormous 
corruption-ridden expenditure of hundreds of billions in Iraq is like 
being called silly by the Three Stooges.

Now, back to the gentleman from Georgia. He says well, don't blame 
me. The gentleman says he just borrowed the amendment from other 
people. It's germane to its rules. The gentleman could be more creative 
than that.


Here's the point. This is why you don't do the PAYGO in this 
restrictive fashion program by program, selectively by program by 
program.

When you like a program that spends a lot of money, in some areas you 
don't do it. If you don't like the program, you do it, and you claim 
it's just the neutral principle of fiscal responsibility. But PAYGO is 
sensibly applied over the whole budget, over the whole appropriations 
process. You can say, you know, we need more in the environmental area, 
we need more in the housing area, we need more in the transportation 
area. Let's reduce it in the manned space shot to Mars.

The way this is written, the only way you could have this pass and be 
valid would be if you cut within this program. The gentleman says, 
well, those are the rules of germaneness. Yes, that's why you do PAYGO 
on a broader scale.

To say you can only do Indian housing if you cut other things that 
are germane to this bill is precisely to shield the manned space shot 
to Mars, it's to shield expensive military spending, it's to shield 
cotton subsidies beyond what ought to be, and then say, you know what, 
if you're going to interfere with the freedom of these Navajo children 
to live in squalor, then we're going to have to make you cut back on 
money elsewhere.

I thank the gentleman for yielding.