---
---

# KENDELL FREDERICK CITIZENSHIP ASSISTANCE ACT
## `dd4a40bd36ac6c4ba01f77ed9d05d4f5`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 9 June 2008`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, Specialist Kendall Frederick was a 21-year-old U.S. Army 
soldier serving in Iraq who dreamed of becoming an American citizen. He 
was born in Trinidad and came to this country when he was 15 years old. 
Specialist Frederick joined ROTC while in high school--and I would 
point out there are increasing numbers of high schools that have denied 
ROTC presence on their campus. Not the case for Specialist Frederick 
and we are thankful.

He joined the Army after he graduated. On October 19, 2005, he was 
tragically killed by a roadside bomb while traveling in a convoy to a 
base. He was granted U.S. citizenship posthumously, but he never knew 
he was an American citizen. Tragically, the very reason that he was in 
that convoy that day was to get fingerprinted in order to achieve his 
dream.

We know that Kendell Frederick wanted to be an American citizen but 
bureaucracy stood in his way. He had been trying to become an American 
citizen for over a year, Mr. Speaker, having started the process while 
he was in training.

His mother and his sergeant in Iraq tried to help him, but they 
didn't know the rules. His efforts to become a citizen were thwarted by 
bureaucratic misinformation and other obstacles.

While he was fighting for our country in Iraq, he was told that he 
had to have his fingerprints retaken in Maryland. When his mother 
called 1-800-IMMIGRATION, it's a USCIS unit, United States Citizenship 
and Immigration Services hotline for immigration assistance, and tried 
to explain that he was fighting in a war and was, I should say, tied up 
at the time, as John McCain might say, he could not come home to 
Baltimore to be fingerprinted so she was told that there was nothing 
they could do.

This is wrong and this is intolerable that our soldiers are unable to 
get correct information, Mr. Speaker. They should be given every 
possible assistance in applying for citizenship.

Last year, the House passed H.R. 2884 which provides that a soldier 
who submits a naturalization application within 24 months of enlistment 
can have that application processed using the fingerprints that were 
taken at the time of his enlistment. I supported that bill then which 
was designed to and does honor Specialist Frederick and all of our 
lawful permanent resident servicemembers.

Today we're considering S. 2516 which is a bill the Senate passed 
that makes a few technical changes to H.R. 2884. I urge my colleagues 
to support this bill. It has taken us some time to get this resolved. I 
trust it will be resolved today in this House, Mr. Speaker, and done so 
with great gratitude from this Congress and the United States people to 
Specialist Kendell Frederick and to all of those who have given their 
lives and parts of their lives and some their limbs for the freedom of 
this great country.

Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield back the balance 
of my time.