# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `dd5c5661b4c74af356bb7c1fb8c2a665`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 27 February 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. On that point, just to focus on the National 
Guard and how correct you are about how they are being treated versus 
what they signed up for, there are now 14,000 National Guard troops 
being deployed earlier than they were originally scheduled to meet the 
demands of the President's proposed plans to escalate the war.

National Guard and Army units are being called up sooner than 
previously scheduled, and that is even though some of these units do 
not have the equipment that they need. They do not have the training, 
and some of them are having to go over there foregoing the training.

Mr. Meek and I are going to be meeting with our general, who is in 
charge of our National Guard in Florida very soon. I just saw the 
request today, and I am looking forward to meeting with him. I met with 
him in my district in Florida as well last year, and the conversations 
that I have had with him and with others about the condition of the 
equipment, not just the condition of the equipment that is going over


there, but what happens to the equipment once it comes back because we 
are not replacing the equipment and sending them new equipment after it 
has been through 5, 6 years of an Iraq War.

So the equipment that they are working on and that they are utilizing 
has been through war literally. I mean, we are not making sure that 
they have the equipment that they need. We are sending them over there 
two, three and four times now.

When I went to Walter Reed a couple of weeks ago, every single guy I 
met had been through three tours, three. One of the guys I met, his 
little boy was there, and literally his dad had been on three tours. 
His little boy was six, which means that this dad missed half of his 
child's life already, half. I mean, that is just inexcusable. That is 
not what our volunteers sign up for. I mean, even if you signed up for 
the regular standing Army, it is unreasonable to expect that they would 
have to have that kind of pressure, physical, mental, emotional 
pressure put on them as well as their families, especially in the 
middle of the situation in a war that we are involved in under dubious 
circumstances to begin with.

I do not know if Mr. Meek wants to jump in here now, but he is still 
sitting so I imagine not. So I will go back to Mr. Murphy.