---
---

# ARMENIAN GENOCIDE
## `dd9882504d40b5315c2e28738ed45dff`
`Mr. REED — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, today, on behalf of the Armenian population 
of Rhode Island, and Armenians around the world, I wish to recognize 
the 92nd anniversary of the Armenian genocide.

On April 24, 1915, nationalists in the Ottoman Empire rounded up, 
deported, and executed 200 Armenian community leaders, writers, 
thinkers, and professionals in Constantinople, present day Istanbul. 
Also on that day in Constantinople, 5,000 of the poorest Armenians were 
massacred in the streets and in their homes. These events sparked an 8-
year campaign of tyranny that impacted the lives of every Armenian in 
Asia Minor. By 1923, an estimated 1.5 million Armenians were murdered, 
and another 500,000 were exiled.

The U.S. Ambassador to the Ottoman Empire, Henry Morganthau, Sr., 
unsuccessfully pleaded President Wilson for intervention. 
Unfortunately, the United States and the world tragically failed to 
intervene on behalf of the Armenian people. Ambassador Morganthau would 
later write in his memoir, ''The great massacres and persecutions of 
the past seem almost insignificant when compared to the sufferings of 
the Armenian race in 1915.''

Today, as a proud supporter of S. Res 106, legislation officially 
recognizing the Armenian genocide, I urge the President to ensure that 
the foreign policy of the United States reflects appropriate 
understanding and sensitivity concerning issues related to human 
rights, ethnic cleansing, and genocide documented in the U.S. record 
relating to the Armenian genocide. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., stated 
over 50 years after the Armenian genocide that: ''Injustice anywhere is 
a threat to justice everywhere . . . Whatever affects one directly, 
affects all indirectly.'' The time has come to officially recognize the 
Armenian genocide.

The United States is proud to have Armenia as an ally in the 
rebuilding and reconstruction of Iraq. For the past 4 years, Armenian 
soldiers have supported American and multinational force efforts in 
Iraq. As part of the Polish-led multinational division in south-central 
Iraq, Armenians have worked as truckdrivers, bomb detonators, and 
doctors. Armenia has proclaimed their fight by not allowing others to 
be left helpless as they were nearly a century ago.

We must study and remember the events of our past in order to be 
better citizens of tomorrow. In instances such as the Armenian 
genocide, I call on all nations, not just the United States, to educate 
their youth to stand against hatred and prejudice of others in order to 
deter future atrocities against humanity. We should be prepared to take 
a vigilant stand against similar atrocities, such as the current 
situation in Darfur, to not let history repeat itself.

We must honor the victims of the Armenian genocide by vowing to never 
allow the world to stand idle to atrocities against humanity again.

Menk panav chenk mornar. We will never forget.