---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3996, TEMPORARY TAX RELIEF ACT OF
## `dda268fcdbd136785df82c68a1e5c91c`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 9 November 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ''yes'' on 
the previous question, I urge them to vote ''yes'' on the rule, and I 
urge them to vote ''yes'' on the underlying bill.

Thousands of middle-class families in this country deserve relief 
from the AMT tax, and that's what this underlying bill is all about. In 
addition, as we provide relief to these middle-class families, we owe 
it to our kids not to saddle them with the bill, and that's also the 
purpose of the underlying bill.

Mr. Speaker, I have two kids, a 9-year-old son and a 6-year-old 
daughter. I don't want to leave them with a future in which they have 
to pay for all of the mistakes and all of the mismanagement of my 
generation.

The Republicans want to have it in a way that they can do things and 
not pay for anything. We have a war in Iraq. It's not paid for. Doesn't 
bother them in the least. Their prescription for health care is take 
two tax breaks and call me in the morning. It doesn't bother them in 
the least that the bill is going to be paid for by our kids and our 
grandkids. Tax cuts for the rich. Again, put it on the backs of our 
kids and our grandkids. Mr. Speaker, that is irresponsible.

Our Nation is currently burdened with over $9 trillion of national 
debt. The average daily interest accruing on this debt exceeds $1 
billion. Each American share of this debt is more than $30,000. We 
cannot afford to keep taking on this additional debt.

When the Democrats regained control of the Congress, we instituted 
PAYGO rules, pay as you go. Families in America have to live within 
their budgets. The United States Congress ought to be able to live 
within a budget. We need to be fiscally responsible.

So, if you want to give your rich friends a tax cut, then pay for it. 
If you want to have a war, then pay for it. We need to pay as you go.

Mr. Speaker, this is a good bill. Vote ''yes'' on the previous 
question and ''yes'' on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. Hastings of Washington is 
as follows:




 Amendment to H. Res. 809 Offered By Mr. Hastings of Washington




 At the end of the resolution, add the following:



 Sec. 3. The House disagrees to the Senate amendment to the 


 bill, H.R. 2642, making appropriations for military 


 construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and related 


 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, and 


 for other purposes, and agrees to the conference requested by 


 the Senate thereon. The Speaker shall appoint conferees 


 immediately, but may declare a recess under clause 12(a) of 


 rule I for the purpose of consulting the Minority Leader 


 prior to such appointment. The motion to instruct conferees 


 otherwise in order pending the appointment of conferees 


 instead shall be in order only at a time designated by the 


 Speaker in the legislative schedule within two additional 


 legislative days after adoption of this resolution.



 (The information contained herein was provided by 


 Democratic Minority on multiple occasions throughout the 


 109th Congress.)





The Vote on the Previous Question: What It Really Means




 This vote, the vote on whether to order the previous 


 question on a special rule, is not merely a procedural vote. 


 A vote against ordering the previous question is a vote 


 against the Democratic majority agenda and a vote to allow 


 the opposition, at least for the moment, to offer an 


 alternative plan. It is a vote about what the House should be 


 debating.



 Mr. Clarence Cannon's Precedents of the House of 


 Representatives, (VI, 308-311) describes the vote on the 


 previous question on the rule as ''a motion to direct or 


 control the consideration of the subject before the House 


 being made by the Member in charge.'' To defeat the previous 


 question is to give the opposition a chance to decide the 


 subject before the House. Cannon cites the Speaker's ruling 


 of January 13, 1920, to the effect that ''the refusal of the 


 House to sustain the demand for the previous question passes 


 the control of the resolution to the opposition'' in order to 


 offer an amendment. On March 15, 1909, a member of the 


 majority party offered a rule resolution. The House defeated 


 the previous question and a member of the opposition rose to 


 a parliamentary inquiry, asking who was entitled to 


 recognition. Speaker Joseph G. Cannon (R-Illinois) said: 


 ''The previous question having been refused, the gentleman 


 from New York, Mr. Fitzgerald, who had asked the gentleman to 


 yield to him for an amendment, is entitled to the first 


 recognition.''



 Because the vote today may look bad for the Democratic 


 majority they will say ''the vote on the previous question is 


 simply a vote on whether to proceed to an immediate vote on 


 adopting the resolution . . . [and] has no substantive 


 legislative or policy implications whatsoever.'' But that is 


 not what they have always said. Listen to the definition of 


 the previous question used in the Floor Procedures Manual 


 published by the Rules Committee in the 109th Congress, (page 


 56). Here's how the Rules Committee described the rule using 


 information from Congressional Quarterly's ''American 


 Congressional Dictionary'': ''If the previous question is 


 defeated, control of debate shifts to the leading opposition 


 member (usually the minority Floor Manager) who then manages 


 an hour of debate and may offer a germane amendment to the 


 pending business.''



 Deschler's Procedure in the U.S. House of Representatives, 


 the subchapter titled ''Amending Special Rules'' states: ''a 


 refusal to order the previous question on such a rule [a 


 special rule reported from the Committee on Rules] opens the 


 resolution to amendment and further debate.'' (Chapter 21, 


 section 21.2) Section 21.3 continues: ''Upon rejection of the 


 motion for the previous question on a resolution reported 


 from the Committee on Rules, control shifts to the Member 


 leading the opposition to the previous question, who may 


 offer a proper amendment or motion and who controls the time 


 for debate thereon.''



 Clearly, the vote on the previous question on a rule does 


 have substantive policy implications. It is one of the only 


 available tools for those who oppose the Democratic 


 majority's agenda and allows those with alternative views the 


 opportunity to offer an alternative plan.
