---
---

# None
## `dda439299b72d85244565af30a2c859f`
`Mr. KERRY — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I join with the senior Senator from Wyoming 
in congratulating the new Senator, the junior Senator, for his 
comments. All of us miss Senator Thomas. I had the occasion to work 
with him on committee. He was a very fair, decent person and really 
looked for the center ground here and tried to make things happen. I 
certainly hope his successor will follow in that good tradition. We 
thank him for his comments.

Mr. President, I listened, as we all have, to portions of the debate 
up until now, and it struck me--particularly, I listened to the Senator 
from Minnesota who was speaking prior to the vote we just had. He made 
a lot of points that I think most of us would agree with, which is one 
of the problems with this debate--that Senators on the other side are 
setting up a lot of straw men and then knocking them down, talking 
about the strategic interests we have in the region, but then drawing a 
quick, and in my judgment, inappropriate conclusion that the change in 
strategy being proposed in the amendment we are debating is somehow 
going to play into the negative side of those particular strategic 
interests.


For instance, we have heard again and again how al-Qaida is the 
central focus, and how if we were to start withdrawing our troops, Iraq 
is going to be taken over by al-Qaida and America's interests will be 
hurt. Well, that conclusion is, first, speculative and, secondly, 
erroneous even in speculation. Why do I say that? Because al-Qaida was 
not in Iraq until we invaded it. Al-Qaida was not the threat it is 
today in Iraq until we made a series of errors, which are compounding 
now with the strategy we are pursuing.

The fact is our presence has been used by al-Qaida as an organizing 
tool, a recruitment tool, and it has been easier for al-Qaida to play 
Sunni and Shia off against each other because of our presence than it 
would be absent it. The experience in al-Anbar Province recently 
underscores the point we are making on our side of the aisle, which is 
that once the sheiks, the chiefs, in al-Anbar made the political 
decision that they were going to take on al-Qaida and actually stand up 
for their independence, they began to drive al-Qaida out of al-Anbar. 
Most of the Iraqis I have talked to in the course of the visits I have 
made there have indicated to me--I haven't met one Iraqi, Sunni, Shia, 
or Kurd, or various factions within Shia or Sunni, who believes that 
al-Qaida is a long-term threat in Iraq. Why? Because they don't want 
al-Qaida in Iraq and because, ultimately, if we are not there acting as 
the magnet and cohesive glue of al-Qaida's organizational efforts, and 
if we don't make al-Qaida in fact important to the ability of the 
militias or insurgents, Sunni and Shia, to use al-Qaida as a convenient 
tool to target American forces, or even to target civilians of the 
other sect, the minute that dynamic changes, then their need for al-
Qaida changes. That is a fundamental sort of reality that has escaped a 
large part of this debate.

Al-Qaida is not able to survive, in my judgment, in the long run 
because of this nationalism, as well as fundamental commitment by each 
of those people to their own regions and interests that are indigenous 
to Iraq itself. I think foreign jihadists are going to have a hard time 
in the long run under those circumstances. Moreover, to talk about the 
strength of al-Qaida right now as the threat to the United States in 
Iraq is to ignore the National Intelligence Estimate that has recently 
been read--some of the public accounts--in the news media. Those of us 
who have had briefings, and some of us who have spent time pursuing 
this issue, understand that al-Qaida is reconstituting. They are as 
strong today as they were on 9/11. That is the latest estimate.

That fact totally contradicts the main message of the President and 
his administration--that we have to be over there to fight them over 
there so we don't have to fight them here. The ''here'' is broadening 
all around the world. If that were true, then what is going on with the 
Secretary of Homeland Security when he tells us that his gut is telling 
him that we are likely to have another attack now. It seems to me the 
chatter we are hearing reflected in the reports from the intelligence 
briefings we are getting is the same kind of chatter I heard from 
George Tenet in July of 2001, when he told us in room 407 that he was 
absolutely confident there was going to be an attack, they just could 
not tell us where. I might add that in the face of that confidence 
about the attack and the lack of ability to tell us where, the 
President took the longest vacation in history, and there were no 
briefings and nothing happened until September, when the attack of 9/11 
took place. It is a matter of record, when we measure what the 
administration is saying today, what will happen and the challenge to 
us; you have to measure it against the record. This is not an 
administration that has been correct, conceivably, about anything, but 
certainly about almost everything with respect to Iraq.

So with each step that has been made, whether it was the early steps 
made by Paul Bremer, or subsequent steps made with respect to the 
disbursement of funds, or the promises of a transition to democracy, 
and so forth, not one expectation has been met. Not one basic political 
transformation that is essential to resolving this has taken place. We 
are in the fifth year, 5 years into it, and the administration says 
wait another 6 weeks until September before you do this because then we 
will know what we don't know after 5 years; we will know what we don't 
know after Senator after Senator has made trips to Iraq and spoken 
privately with generals, colonels, majors, all the way down the ranks 
into the noncommissioned officers and those going out on patrols; we 
have heard from them.

Let me say one thing quickly about what is not happening there. This 
is also profoundly about those troops. There is no question on either 
side of the aisle about the respect we have for the quality of the 
service that American troops are providing our country--no question at 
all. These are the best trained, most capable and dedicated people I 
have ever seen. One of my interns is serving over there now. He was an 
intern a couple years ago. We get regular e-mails from him. He writes 
us about the losses in his unit. He writes us about the patrols he is 
going out on. He sends us photographs. We sort of feel in our office 
like family with his unit. He is First Cavalry, and we are proud of his 
service and of the service of all of those men and women. They are--
most of them--dedicated to the mission. There is not a lot of griping 
that we hear, and there is a tremendous pride of service. It is 
wonderful to see.

The bottom line is they deserve missions that make sense. They 
deserve an overall policy that is equal to the sacrifice and the 
commitment they show on a daily basis.

I am not a Vietnam veteran who believes everything that happened or 
comes out of that particular period is governing for what happens now, 
obviously. But there are certain lessons. If you don't learn lessons of 
history, as we have read and know, you are doomed to repeat the 
mistakes you make. Secretary Colin Powell, who was very influential in 
my own decision to give the President authority to have this big stick 
of the potential use of force, told me at length in a conversation that 
I had prior to voting how he thought it was important to apply the 
lessons of Vietnam to what we may or may not do in Iraq. That was part 
of the Powell doctrine about the use of overwhelming force and the 
commitment to know that you are going to do for the troops what the 
troops have been willing to do for you and their country, and that you 
are going to go through the diplomatic process and build up the kind of 
support we never had in the course of the war he served in and I and 
others served in.


I particularly remember the difficulties we faced on the ground in 
Vietnam, trying to distinguish between friend and foe, going into a 
village in the night and seeing people with ID cards that looked the 
same as everybody else's, and names that were misspelled, and our lists 
didn't work and they were misspelled. You tried to figure out who was 
who. It was chaotic. So it is in Iraq, where they go out and they have 
an interpreter, and you try to interpret, which is difficult anyway, 
and there is a huge cultural gulf, an enormous difficulty within the 
tribal


context and cultural context to try to penetrate and figure things out. 
Our troops are doing an amazing job with the mission itself, but we are 
struggling with that.

This mission is as flawed as the mission was years ago. You send 
troops out to find IEDs--the hard way. You are driving down a road and 
you go through a community and, kaboom, there is an explosion. You get 
your wounded out and you turn around and you look at each other and say 
what did we accomplish? What did we get out of that? Did we secure any 
territory? Did we in fact make the community more secure? The greater 
likelihood is that the people who were hiding in some house, or the 
people who blew up that IED are sitting there congratulating 
themselves, saying we took out another 6 or 10 soldiers, and the 
headlines are there and that is what they want. Every time we go out 
and do that, we add to the fragility of the community and the chaos, in 
the sense of the entire stake. We all know that military mission is not 
going to reduce the long-term violence, which is being driven by the 
political stakes that both sides--or all sides, as there are a bunch of 
entities vying for power here--but all of them are playing us off 
against those interests. That is what is going on here.

So how many times do we have to listen to generals, particularly, but 
also to even the President, or the Vice President, or the Secretary of 
State, or our colleagues say to us there is no military solution? If 
there is no military solution, then what are the troops accomplishing 
in these proactive forays out into the community where they ''show the 
flag'' and show a presence? For a moment, the insurgents may melt into 
the background but, believe me, the minute those guys have 
disappeared--and there are not enough of them in Iraq, and there won't 
be, because we understand the dynamics, to secure all of the 
communities--the minute they disappear, the currency of daily life in 
the indigenous community takes over. That is the nature of the beast. 
That is what an insurgent guerilla-type effort is about, which is why 
the initial flaw of never committing enough troops to guarantee you can 
do the job remains so critical to where we are today.

Now, the fact is that the young men and women who are being sent out 
on those missions have no more hope today than they did yesterday, or 
the week before, or a year ago. They won't have any more hope in 
September than they do right now when we are here on the floor with the 
potential of this vote. They have no more potential of resolving the 
fundamentals of what is causing those IEDs to be exploded. The fact is 
that IEDs are being exploded for one most significant reason, which we 
need to focus on in the context of this debate: because there are 
factions within the Sunni and Shia who are vying for power. As long as 
you have this open-ended presence of Americans, we remain the target 
and they remain committed to use us to foster the insecurity and fear 
that allows them to continue to maneuver among each other. Unless you 
change that dynamic, what happens here by continuing this policy, which 
is what our colleagues on the other side are prepared to do--at least 
through September, which raises a significant issue that in a moment I 
will come back to--but if you continue it, you are guaranteeing that 
those young men and women will continue to go out in the same posture 
they are going out today, without any resolution whatsoever of the 
fundamental political issues.

Now, I don't think that is very smart. It is plain not smart. Most 
Americans today get that. I heard the Senator from Minnesota and others 
come to the floor and say: What is driving this? Why now? Why are we 
doing this now, having this debate when we know that in September 
someone is going to make a report?

Well, I think the reverse is the question: Why are you waiting until 
September when you know what is happening today and you know the 
dynamic hasn't changed? Why do you send those troops out day after day 
on a mission you know cannot accomplish the goal and put them at risk 
without a mission that is achievable? Why do you sit here and say that 
somehow in September there is going to be a report that will change the 
dynamic, when we know not one benchmark has yet been met and you are 
talking about 6 weeks from now and we are losing 100 troops a month? 
What do you say to those families of the 100 who may be lost over the 
course of the next month: Gee, we were waiting for a report, even 
though we knew basically what the report would say. I don't think there 
is a colleague on the other side who doesn't hope the White House is 
going to start trying to pull back some troops in September. We have 
talked to generals and we have had Senators over there in the last 
weeks, and they have been told in certain regions they believe some 
troops can come home. So we are going to sit here and wait for a policy 
that will continue to put young soldiers at risk for a mission that is 
not going to change the fundamental dynamics.

Let me speak to that for a moment, the question of changing the 
fundamental dynamics in this mission. The escalation of troops in Iraq 
was supposed to be the precursor to the willingness of the Iraqi 
politicians to have the ''cover of security'' to be able to make 
certain kinds of decisions. I have to tell you that I think that 
thinking is fundamentally flawed. I think it is the other way around. I 
think if you want the people in your country to believe there is going 
to be some security, the political leadership has to stand up and make 
decisions that indicate there is a willingness to put the fundamental 
stakes in place that help create that security.

When we know we don't have enough troops there to secure every 
community, and you know there is this power struggle going on between 
these factions, you are not going to change those fundamentals by 
putting in a few troops here and a few there, melting down certain 
pockets of resistance that move, as they have, from Baghdad to Diyala, 
or Kirkuk, or to some other community, and you simply move the violence 
and the terror continues.

The politics has to change. There has been no indication whatsoever 
of the ability or willingness of Prime Minister Maliki, or the others 
who make up this Government, to make those fundamental decisions. What 
are we talking about? We are talking about an oil law. Is it that hard 
to sit down and decide how the revenues of the oil will be divided--by 
population, by community, by presence, by need? It hasn't happened. We 
have been promised month after month, oh, it is just around the corner, 
just about to happen. And it doesn't happen.

I have sat with some folks over there who have indicated to me that 
it is, in fact, the open-endedness of the presence of the United States 
that relieves the pressure. I have even heard that from some of our top 
U.S. diplomats who have been charged with the effort to negotiate, and 
they happily and gladly use the pressure of the Congress as a stick to 
try to leverage some of the transition we want.

But frankly, I have also heard them say that when the President and 
the administration stand up and say: We are there, don't worry about 
us, we are going to keep on doing this, they just back off because they 
don't think they have to listen to the Congress and they know they have 
this open-ended ability to play their game. It is that simple. That is 
what we are trying to change.

When I hear my colleagues on the other side of the aisle run through 
this list of red herrings, of straw men, it disappoints me, frankly, 
because we ought to have the real debate.

I have heard colleagues over there come with a map and say: You have 
Saudi Arabia here and Lebanon here, Israel here, and you have all of 
these interests and Iran. Iran is growing in its influence. Well, Iran 
has loved our presence in Iraq. Iran has grown in its influence because 
of what we have been doing in Iraq. We have empowered Iran. In fact, 
Iran doesn't want an Iraq that is completely disintegrated for a lot of 
different reasons. There are fundamental and profound differences 
between Iran and Iraq in the end, not the least of which is that Iran 
is Persian and Iraq is Arab. That Arab/Persian line existed long before 
the United States went there. Believe me, when we are not there, it 
will continue to exist and play out in influence with respect to the 
region.

You hear people say: This precipitous withdrawal. ''Precipitous'' is 
the favorite word of the other side. First, it is not a withdrawal; it 
is a redeployment.


Yes, some troops come home, absolutely, as they ought to, because there 
are limits to what American troops are able to do in the middle of a 
civil war. I ask my colleagues, go read the authorization we sent those 
troops to Iraq with. There isn't one mention of what is going on there 
today. There isn't even one mention that is active today. The authority 
we gave the President to use to send the troops there was related to 
Saddam Hussein, to weapons of mass destruction, to a whole series of 
things, none of which are applicable--not al-Qaida, incidentally. This 
is a war which has completely morphed into what it is today, without 
congressional authorization. But for the fact that the troops are 
there, the Congress wouldn't send them there for what they are doing 
today. Just because you are there is the last reason to be sending 
young Americans out to continue to put their lives in harm's way.

We hear this issue of precipitous. I guarantee you, in September, the 
President is going to start redeploying some troops. And well into next 
year, we all know we can't sustain the current level of deployment. 
Everybody knows that. Talk to the military; talk to the Pentagon. We 
can't sustain it. There is a looming, huge reality standing over the 
Senate which is the reality of the deployment schedule itself, that at 
the current levels of our Armed Forces, at the current rate of 
deployment, we are not able to sustain the numbers we have there well 
into next year without busting the Armed Forces completely. That 
doesn't seem to enter the debate, according to the other side.

This isn't sustainable beyond next year. We don't even move most of 
the troops out until beyond that period of time. So there is a complete 
logic to the date that has been chosen. It is not arbitrary. It was not 
picked out of the air, and no poll has set what is happening here. In 
fact, if you followed the polls, you wouldn't be in Iraq at all. That 
is not what we are suggesting.

We acknowledge that there are interests. Yes, there are interests in 
the region. Yes, there are interests we have with respect to our ally 
Israel. Yes, there are interests with respect to Lebanon. Yes, if we 
just up and walked away, al-Qaida would use that. But that is not what 
this debate is about or ought to be about. What we are talking about 
is, how do you best take the sacrifice and commitment of our troops and 
honor it with a policy that in fact can achieve what we want to achieve 
in the region?

It is the judgment of many of us, including some Republicans, that we 
have reached a point where you best achieve what we need to try to 
achieve in Iraq by this fundamental change in what our troops are there 
to do. What we are doing is changing the mission from a mission where 
we are proactively going out into the community, into homes, 
proactively engaged in doing what the Iraqis ought to, after 5 years, 
be doing for themselves.

The Prime Minister of Iraq himself has said that they are prepared to 
take over the security. The Prime Minister has said they don't need us 
there in the same way we are. The people of Iraq don't want us there in 
the numbers that we are there today. In fact, I think one of the things 
we ought to vote on in this authorization is whether there should be a 
plebiscite in Iraq. Let's ask the Iraqis in an open vote whether they 
want the United States to be there in the way we are there today. Let's 
do that. I am confident of what the outcome would be.

The fact is, we are talking about how you get from here to there, 
which is where we all want to be, with a sufficient level of stability 
so that Iran cannot have increasing influence the way it does, that 
Iraqis will be able to stop going down this spiraling downward course 
of violence which is consuming their society.

Most of the middle class of Iraq has now already moved out of Iraq. 
Much of the middle class is in Syria, Jordan, other communities. What 
has happened is, the very core that we relied on to achieve what we 
wanted to, because of the violence and because of the misjudgments, 
isn't there anymore. That even complicates matters more.

I heard the Senator from Minnesota say the other day that this is not 
an open-ended commitment that we have today. I don't know how it is not 
open-ended unless, of course, he knows that General Petraeus is going 
to recommend that we bring some troops back in September because in the 
absence of that, it is open-ended. There is nothing that says to the 
Iraqis: Something is going to happen if you don't do X, Y, or Z.

Last year, we heard Ambassador Khalilzad and then General Casey and 
General Abizaid say the Iraqis have about 6 months, and if they don't 
do the following things in the next 6 months, it is going to be really 
difficult. Guess what, Mr. President. We are a year beyond that now. We 
are 6 months beyond the 6 months. What happened? Nothing.