---
---

# SILVER STAR RECIPIENTS
## `ddb1c9e2062d6d033449123047f19f8c`
`Mr. DORGAN — 11 May 2009`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, on Thursday I was privileged to host a 
bipartisan lunch of the Senate Democratic and Republican policy 
committees, in honor of a team of Green Berets who earned the Silver 
Star for extraordinary bravery in combat operations in Afghanistan. 
These are true American heroes, and their actions were in the proudest 
traditions of our Armed Forces in general, and of our Special 
Operations forces in particular.

On April 6, 2008, this team's mission was to capture or kill several 
very high-ranking members of the Hezb-e-Islami Gulbuddin, HIG, militant 
group. The insurgents were in their stronghold, a village perched in 
Nuristan's Shok Valley that is normally accessible only by pack mule.

During a harrowing, nearly 7-hour battle on a mountainside, this team 
and a few dozen Afghan commandos they had trained took fire from all 
directions. Outnumbered, the Green Berets fought on even after half of 
them were wounded--and managed to kill an estimated 150 to 200 enemy 
fighters.

For their heroism in battle, 10 members of Operational Detachment 
Alpha 3336 from the 3rd Special Forces Group received the Silver Star, 
one of the highest awards for valor in the U.S. Military. This was the 
highest number of such awards for a single engagement since the Vietnam 
war.

The men who earned these Silver Stars were CPT Kyle Walton, SFC Scott 
Ford, SSG Luis Morales, SSG Seth Howard, SSG Ronald Shurer, SSG John 
Walding, SSG Dillon Behr, SGT David Sanders, SGT Matthew Williams, and 
SPC Michael Carter.

I will ask to have printed in the Record a copy of their Silver Star 
citations. I will also ask to have printed in the Record a copy of a 
Washington Post report describing the battle on that Afghan 
mountainside.

Mr. President, as I mentioned earlier, it was our privilege to honor 
these heroic Green Berets, who were joined at the lunch by SSG Robert 
Gutierrez, Jr., an Air Force special tactics combat controller who 
targeted airstrikes during the mission. For his actions, he was awarded 
the Bronze Star Medal with ''V'' device for valor.

No words can truly express the depth of our gratitude to these men 
and all the other members of our Armed Forces who have answered their 
country's call.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to have the materials to 
which I referred printed in the Record.