---
---

# COMMENDING SENATOR ROLAND BURRIS
## `ddb5a2649341dfeccc48c26bf25938c3`
`Mr. LEVIN — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, Senator Roland Burris of Illinois was sworn 
into office less than 2 years ago. In that short time, he has debated 
and voted on some of the most important legislation the Senate has 
considered in 40 years. During his tenure, Senator Burris has helped 
pass major reforms to end abuses by the credit card industry, to put a 
cop back on the beat on Wall Street, and to expand health care coverage 
to 32 million Americans while reducing the Federal deficit by $143 
billion. Senator Burris also voted to confirm the nomination of two 
U.S. Supreme Court Justices: Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.

Senator Burris serves on the Senate Armed Services Committee, which I 
chair. During his service on the committee, Senator Burris helped 
provide oversight of the military as we draw down U.S. forces in Iraq 
and standup Afghan forces in Afghanistan. He has helped pass weapons 
acquisition reform legislation and two National Defense Authorization 
Acts out of committee. He has helped confirm the nominations of 
Nation's top civilian and military leaders.

Before coming to the Senate, Roland Burris had a distinguished career 
in Illinois politics, as Illinois comptroller and then as the Illinois 
attorney general.

As Senator Burris ends his time here in the Senate, I thank him for 
his service to our Nation and wish him and his family the very best.
