# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `ddc23eca744e5d71e430c28a5232e2fc`
`Mr. KERRY — 19 December 2010`

---


Mr. KERRY. Let me use a portion of it, and I will reserve a little 
bit at the end.

First of all, both Bill Perry, former Defense Secretary Bill Perry, 
and Jim Schlesinger have been mentioned, as well as the Commission on 
which they served. Let me make certain that the record is clear about 
their position with respect to this treaty.

Secretary Perry said the following:




 The focus of this treaty is on deployed warheads and it 


 does not attempt to counter or control nondeployed warheads. 


 This continues in the tradition of prior arms control 


 treaties. I would hope to see nondeployed and tactical 


 systems included in future negotiations, but the absence of 


 these systems should not detract from the merits of this 


 treaty and the further advance in arms control which it 


 represents.


Jim Schlesinger, from the same Commission, said:




 The ratification of this treaty is obligatory. I wish more 


 of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle were here to 


 hear Jim Schlesinger's comments, but he said ratification is 


 obligatory and the reason it is obligatory is that you really 


 can't get to the discussion you want to have with the 


 Russians about tactical unless you show the good faith to 


 have the strategic and verification reduction structure in 


 place.


Let me just say, supposing the language of the Senator from Idaho was 
adopted here, would it mean we are reducing tactical nuclear weapons? 
No. Would it get you any further down the road to be able to reduce 
them? The answer is, not only would it not do that, it would set back 
the effort to try to get those reductions because the Russians will not 
engage in that discussion if you can't ratify the treaty, and if they 
pass this amendment, this treaty, as Senator Levin said, is dead.

It goes back to the Russian Government with a provision that is now 
linking those weapons in a way that they have not been willing to talk 
about, even engage in the discussion at this point in time.

In fact, we would be setting ourselves backwards if that amendment 
were to be put into effect. What is ironic about it is, he is amending 
a component of the treaty that has no legal, binding impact whatsoever. 
So not only would they refuse to negotiate, but there is nothing 
legally binding in the language he would pass that would force them to 
negotiate. So it is a double setback, if you will. I would simply say 
to my friend on the other side--I talked to him privately about this, 
and I think he is openminded on it--we have language in the resolution 
right now with respect to nuclear weapons. We are not ignoring the 
issue. The language says: The Senate calls on the President following 
consultation with allies to get an agreement with the Russian 
Federation on tactical nuclear weapons.

I am prepared in the resolution of ratification to entertain language 
as a declaration that would also make the Senate's statement clear 
about how we see those nuclear weapons in terms of their threat. I hope 
that would address the concerns of many of our colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle.

But the bottom line here is that Senator Risch's language not only 
does not make any progress on the topic he is concerned about, it 
actually sets back the capacity to be able to make the progress he 
wants to make.

If you want to limit Russia's tactical nuclear weapons, and I do, and 
he does, and I think all 100 Senators do, then you have to pass the New 
START. You have got to approve the New START. If you reject it, you are 
forcing a renegotiation, which never gets you not only to the tactical 
nuclear weapons but which leaves you completely questionable as to 
where you are going to go on the strategic nuclear weapons, which means 
the world is less safe; we have lost our leverage significantly with 
respect to Iran, North Korea; we have certainly muddied the 
relationship significantly with respect to Russia; we have ''unpushed'' 
the restart button; and we have opened who knows what kind of can of 
worms with respect to a whole lot of cooperative efforts that are 
important to us now, not the least of which, I might add, is the war in 
Afghanistan, where Russia is currently cooperating with us in providing 
a secondary supply route and assisting us in other ways with respect to 
Iran.

So I say, let's not do something that we know unravels all of these 
particular components. Anytime you change that resolution of 
ratification, it is like pulling, you know, a piece of string on a 
sweater or on a yarn roll and everything starts to unravel as a 
consequence. One piece undoes another piece undoes another piece. That 
is not where we want to go.

I hope, obviously, we will say no to this amendment and proceed. I 
reserve the remainder of my time.