# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2638, CONSOLIDATED SECURITY,  DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `ddc5240c10542cf7e332d8ffe974a1de`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 24 September 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. But let me say this to my colleagues, we 
have got to address the crumbling infrastructure in America.

The PUC of Texas ordered our utility company to precut limbs, to 
rebuild their power lines, to make them metal. They did not do it, and 
now we have close to 800,000 people without power still, not because we 
are trying to get more than we expect after a disaster, but it is 
because we have poor performance. Our trees are down. They are 
confused. They don't have an organized special needs list. My nursing 
homes are without power. My hospitals are without power.

I'll be writing legislation to correct this immediately and provide 
penalties for those who cannot provide service.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2638, the Consolidated 
Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act. 
Although this legislation does not include the important legislative 
and policy language I sought to help my fellow Houstonians and Texans 
on the road to recovery from the devastation of Hurricane Ike, it does 
appropriate $22.9 billion in disaster assistance, which will help 
communities in Texas and across the nation rebuild, rejuvenate their 
local economies, and take steps to fortify ourselves from future 
disasters.

I have been working diligently and tirelessly to prepare for the 
devastation wreaked by Hurricane Ike since September 11, and I have 
been in Houston nearly every day since Hurricane Ike hit landfall to 
assist my constituents and my fellow Texans respond to and recover from 
the widespread impact. The government should not abrogate its 
responsibility over the general welfare of its citizens, and all levels 
of government (federal, state, and local) must do a better job of 
coordinating and ensuring that relief is delivered in a timely and 
efficient manner. I am optimistic that this bipartisan legislation does 
that by assisting the victims and states affected by Hurricane Ike, 
especially in Texas, get on the road to recovery.

I worked with Chairman Obey and my fellow Texan colleagues to 
appropriate $7.9 billion in disaster relief funds for FEMA so that this 
Agency can continue helping communities recover from Hurricane Ike by 
using these funds for emergency housing, school repairs, debris 
removal, infrastructure improvements, emergency protective measures, 
utility repairs, and water facilities. I also worked to provide $6.5 
billion in Community Development Block Grants (CDBGs), which are 
flexible grants that help communities recover from disasters by 
providing temporary housing, repairing and replacing damaged homes and 
public infrastructure, and stimulating economic development activities. 
I also worked to include $600 million in social services block grants 
to provide


states with flexible sources of funding to address emerging needs 
ranging from food assistance to urgent healthcare needs. We also have 
appropriated $1.3 billion to the Army Corps of Engineers to repair 
damage to infrastructure, especially bayous, drainage channels, and 
levees to bolster flood control efforts. Furthermore, we have 
appropriated $799 million for loans and technical assistance by the 
Small Business Administration (SBA) to businesses and homeowners who 
have been hit hard and need increased assistance. This legislation also 
includes assistance for emergency highway relief, levees in New 
Orleans, wildfires, economic development assistance, international 
disasters, and international food aid.

While Hurricane Ike has left an enormous amount of devastation, it 
has brought out the amazing unity, strength and resilience that Texans 
and Americans possess. Whether rich or poor, black or white, young or 
old, Democrat or Republican, everyone has been working together to 
rebuild and move forward. This is a great testament to the 
insurmountable American spirit.

More than 60 Americans and over 28 Texans have died as a result of 
Hurricane Ike. In addition, the hurricane has caused millions of 
dollars of damage in Houston and Galveston and billions of dollars 
damage throughout the Nation. After touring the devastation throughout 
the Houston and Galveston area, it is clear that the funds I helped 
secure for FEMA and CDBG grants are needed to help residents with 
recovery efforts in Houston and throughout Texas.

As a senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, which 
has oversight over FEMA and DHS, I saw firsthand the waste, fraud, and 
abuse that occurred in the response and recovery effort to Hurricane 
Katrina. Furthermore, the almost exclusive use of major, national 
contractors marginalized and excluded small, minority, and local 
contractors from participating in the cleanup and rebuilding of New 
Orleans in particular. This exclusion of small, minority, and local 
contractors cannot be allowed to occur again in the response and 
recovery effort in Houston and throughout Texas. I am committed to 
exercising my oversight over funds appropriated to DHS and FEMA to 
ensure that they utilize, small, minority, and local businesses that 
must play an integral role in the recovery and rebuilding of their 
communities.


Furthermore, the response efforts to Hurricane Ike in Texas, 
unfortunately similar to Hurricane Katrina in Louisiana but to a 
smaller extent, revealed breakdowns in communication between the state 
and local government on the one hand and FEMA and the Federal 
Government on the other hand. These communication failures resulted in 
unnecessary and avoidable delays in deploying vital resources to 
individuals and families in need. I look forward to hearing from the 
panelists on how we can increase the role that FEMA can play in the 
response and recovery efforts to natural disasters in order to ensure 
the most expeditious and efficient decision-making process possible. 
Whether it be through legislation or simply improved preparation and 
communication, we must take concrete steps to ensure that in the 
ongoing recovery effort, bureaucratic barriers are eliminated and 
minimized and that resources are deployed to individuals and families 
in need efficaciously.

Nearly 6 million people nationwide and over 2.5 million Texas 
residents lost electricity and approximately /1/3/ Houstonians still 
have not regained power. This is unacceptable. CenterPoint, and to a 
smaller extent Entergy, have demonstrated that their utility 
infrastructure is lacking and insufficient to deal with a disaster of 
this magnitude. Clearly, we need to invest substantial funds to improve 
our electric grids to ensure that the disparate impact on vulnerable 
populations such as the elderly, disabled, and impoverished, are 
corrected and are never allowed to reoccur. Furthermore, I am drafting 
legislation to ensure that utility companies who ignore recommendations 
to upgrade their power infrastructure and fail to prepare for natural 
disasters face both civil and criminal liability for their negligent 
actions.

Also, nearly 1 million people evacuated before Hurricane Ike and tens 
of thousands of Houstonians and Texans are facing a major housing 
crisis that must be addressed. The City of Houston will need over $2 
billion for emergency shelters, temporary housing, removal of debris, 
emergency protective measures, and repairs for infrastructure, schools, 
and water facilities. The City of Houston also estimates that it will 
require over $300 million in CDBG grants for permanent housing to 
address this housing crisis. I am confident that I will have the strong 
support of my congressional colleagues in my efforts to ensure that 
Houston and Texas receives the funds it so desperately needs on the 
road to recovery.

Also, the procedure for reimbursement of uninsured home damage is 
extremely cumbersome and slow and must be streamlined to assist 
families on the path to recovery. The current steps which allow for 
applicants to be rejected by the Small Business Administration (SBA) 
after they have registered with FEMA and have had their homes inspected 
and their losses assessed is broken and must be fixed.

Although I support the additional support of our troops included in 
the Defense Appropriations portion of this legislation, I still must 
reluctantly oppose allowing President Bush to continue a war which the 
American people also oppose by failing to impose timelines for 
withdrawal. However this legislation also restores the crucial American 
priorities shortchanged by the President's proposed budget, this 
legislation restores vital homeland security programs, life-saving 
medical research, education for our children, financial aid for 
secondary studies, energy independence, and services for seniors.

Throughout this year, the Democratic-led Congress has worked to 
restore these critical programs, and this omnibus appropriations bill 
represents the final rejection of the President's misguided budget 
cuts. Instead, this legislation provides funding for medical research, 
health care access, and rural hospitals. It increases funding for K-12 
education, student aid, and vocational education. This legislation 
invests in our Nation's first responders, invests in highway 
infrastructure, and in a safe future for our children through renewable 
energy.


Mr. Speaker, it is essential that the Congress, as the direct 
representatives of the American people, approve appropriations 
legislation that reflects the priorities of the American people. That 
is what this bill does. It restores funding, supported by a strong, 
bipartisan majority, for a wide variety of American needs. Even as the 
President asks for billions more to fund a war that the majority of 
Americans do not support, he proposes to essentially freeze most 
domestic funding.

In addition, I am pleased to have been able to secure funding for a 
number of projects benefiting the citizens of the 18th congressional 
district of Texas such as $1 million for Harris County Flood Control 
District, $200,000 for City of Houston, and $200,000 for FEMA Pre-
Disaster Mitigation. These funds will be crucial to ensure the havoc 
wreaked by Hurricane Ike is not repeated.

Mr. Speaker, while I am pleased with many of the provisions of this 
legislation, this legislation contains some language which is 
unacceptable to me, and is unacceptable to the American people. My 
colleagues and I in the House of Representatives have tried, numerous 
times, to provide funds for the troops in Iraq specifically linked to a 
requirement for the immediate commencement of the redeployment of U.S. 
forces.

As lawmakers continue to debate U.S. policy in Iraq, our heroic young 
men and women continue to willingly sacrifice life and limb on the 
battlefield. Our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. We 
sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the midst 
of an insurgent civil war and continuing political upheaval. The United 
States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi government 
and military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, 
and, when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their 
nation will fall to Iraqis themselves. However, whether or not my 
colleagues agree that the time has come to withdraw our American forces 
from Iraq, I believe that all of us in Congress should be of one accord 
that our troops deserve our sincere thanks and congratulations.

Mr. Speaker, we have already lost over 4,100 American lives and $500 
billion in taxpayer dollars in Iraq. We have occupied the country for 
over four years. And our President continues to push a strategy devoid 
of clear direction and visible targets, while rejecting congressional 
calls to solidify an exit strategy.

In November 2006, the American people clearly stated that they did 
not want to see an endless conflict in Iraq; they went to the polls and 
elected a new, Democratic Congress to lead our nation out of Iraq. I am 
proud to be a member of the Congressional class that listens and 
adheres to the will of the American people, as we did when both houses 
of Congress approved Iraq Supplemental bills that instituted a 
timetable for U.S. withdrawal. We need a new direction, because we owe 
our brave, fighting men and women so much more. Washington made a 
mistake in going to war. It is time for politicians to admit that 
mistake and fix it before any more lives are lost.

This Congress will not, as the previous Republican Congress did, 
continue to rubber stamp what we believe to be an ill-conceived war. As 
we continue to receive reports on the situation in Iraq, it is 
important that we continue to look forward, to the future of Iraq 
beyond a U.S. military occupation.

Despite the multitude of mistakes perpetrated by President Bush and 
former Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, our troops have achieved a military 
success in ousting Saddam Hussein and assisting the Iraqis in 
administering a democratic election and electing a democratic 
government. However, only the Iraqi government can secure a lasting 
peace. Time and time again, the Iraqi government


has demonstrated an inability to deliver on the political benchmarks 
that they themselves agreed were essential to achieving national 
reconciliation. Continuing to put the lives of our soldiers and our 
national treasury in the hands of what by most informed accounts, even 
by members of the Bush Administration, is an ineffective central Iraqi 
government is irresponsible and contrary to the wishes of the 
overwhelming majority of the American people.

Our nation has already paid a heavy price in Iraq. Over 4,100 
American soldiers have died. In addition, more than 30,600 have been 
wounded in the Iraq war since it began in March 2003. This misguided, 
mismanaged, and misrepresented war has claimed too many lives of our 
brave servicemen; its depth, breadth, and scope are without precedent 
in American history. In addition, the U.S. is spending an estimated $10 
billion per month in Iraq. This $10 billion a month translates into 
$329,670,330 per day, $13,736,264 per hour, $228,938 per minute, and 
$3,816 per second. Ultimately, many estimate that Bush's misadventure 
in Iraq will cost over $1 trillion.

Mr. Speaker, this House previously passed legislation providing our 
brave soldiers in Iraq with the resources they need, while requiring 
that the President begin to redeploy our troops. We have worked 
tirelessly to keep our soldiers and our nation safe. The open-ended war 
funding provided by this legislation is not the will of the American 
people, and I am proud to stand here, on their behalf, and oppose this 
legislation.