---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ddc805297bd5dd47d9b3f6be28c27057`
`Mr. PRICE of North Carolina — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this 
bill as chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, 
advocating for the bill's acceleration of programs critical to the 
integrity of our borders and the safety of the American people. These 
are carefully crafted, legitimate emergency security measures, and 
there is no good reason to wait further to make this country more 
secure.

Today, however, I want to address the broader bill, speaking 
colleague to colleague, mindful and respectful of the struggles with 
conscience so evident among us in recent days.

I did not support originally giving the authority to the President to 
wage war in Iraq. I have introduced legislation calling for an end to 
that authorization. But I understand there is a wide range of opinion 
on where we should go from here, and there are many who believe that 
this bill, which takes a major step towards changing our course in 
Iraq, either goes too far or not far enough.

Our discussions on this issue have brought to mind lessons from my 
days in divinity school and as a teacher of ethics, lessons I believe 
are helpful in sorting out what it means and should mean to follow 
one's conscience on a matter such as this.

On the first day of Ethics 101, we learn that we often face two kinds 
of moral choice in life. One has to do with the morality of an act 
itself, which is what many colleagues are referring to when they say 
they are ''voting their conscience'' on what we know is an imperfect 
bill.

The second kind of moral choice requires us to consider the 
consequences of our acts. That is also an exercise of conscience, 
perhaps an even more demanding one.

Think about the consequences. What if the consequence of voting 
''no'' is to let slip away the best chance we may have for a long time 
to compel a change of course in Iraq? What if a consequence is the 
further crippling of this House's influence in this country's foreign 
and defense policy? What if the consequence of a ''no'' vote is to 
allow the President to continue on the same failed policy course? Are 
those not matters of conscience?

Some talk as though we should simply square the contents of this bill 
against an ideal and vote accordingly. No, I am afraid moral choice and 
our obligations as public servants run deeper than that.

Please, don't sell short a vote in favor of this bill as though it 
were a mere practical or political accommodation. By all means, treat 
this vote as an act of conscience, but an act based on a searching 
consideration of the full range of consequences that may result.