---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `ddd04e5b548a0a2effb5feb9f3ef89d7`
`Mr. CONRAD â€” 30 March 2009`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, I speak to the matter now before us on the 
floor of the Senate, the budget.

I would like to start by pointing out what this President has 
inherited because this President, who has only been in office a few 
months, has inherited a series of crises almost unparalleled in our 
country's history. You think about it. Not only does he have a fiscal 
crisis, he has a housing crisis, he has a financial crisis, he has two 
wars, and he has a legacy of debt that is truly stunning.

The debt more than doubled in the previous 8 years, the foreign 
holdings of U.S. debt tripled in the previous 8 years, and the 
President inherited an economy in recession for more than a year, an 
economy which contracted by more than 6 percent in the last quarter of 
last year. Of course, when that happens, deficit and debt soar. That is 
precisely what has happened. In the last years, the deficit and debt 
have skyrocketed. So this President walks into a very challenging 
situation.

This shows what happened to just the Federal debt in the past years. 
It went from $5.8 trillion to over $12 trillion. The way we do it, we 
don't hold Presidents responsible for their first year because they are 
inheriting a situation. We don't hold George Bush responsible for the 
first year he was in office. He was working off the previous 
President's budget. And we do not hold this President responsible for 
the first year because he inherits the previous President's budget. But 
this is what happened in the previous 8 years: more than doubling of 
the debt. Perhaps even more alarming, there was a tripling of foreign-
held debt.

President Bush, as we can see by this chart--it took 42 Presidents 
224 years to build up $1 trillion of foreign-held debt. President Bush, 
during his period, ran up more than $2 trillion of foreign holdings of 
U.S. debt. Last year alone when we went to finance our debt, 68 percent 
of the funding came from foreign entities.

Some say that is a sign of strength. I don't share that view. To have 
the Chinese be our biggest financier, to have Japan be No. 2, to have 
them financing 68 percent of our newly issued debt--I don't think that 
is a sign of strength. I think it is a sign of vulnerability.

Not only did President Obama inherit those very tough fiscal 
situations, he also inherited a country facing very dire economic 
conditions, with over 3.3 million private sector jobs lost in the last 
6 months alone.

You can see, going back to September, 300,000 jobs were lost. That 
jumped up to almost 400,000 in October of 2008; in November of 2008, 
over 600,000 jobs lost. Then it approached almost 700,000 in December 
of 2008. In January of 2009 there were nearly 700,000 jobs lost; in 
February of 2009, another almost 700,000 jobs lost.

We see the unemployment rate rose very dramatically, starting back in 
March of 2007, when it was just at about 4.4 percent. Then it started 
skyrocketing back in March of 2008. You can see it took off at a very 
rapid rate to a level of 8.1 percent in February of 2009.

This is much more than numbers on a poster. These are real people 
losing their jobs--meaning their ability to hold on to their homes was 
threatened, meaning their ability to provide for their families was 
diminished. These people are wondering what comes next for them; what 
are we going to do that is going to make a difference in their lives.

We also see economic growth contracted very dramatically from the 
third quarter of 2008, when there was a negative one-half of 1 percent 
of growth, to the fourth quarter of 2008 where the economy contracted 
at a rate of over 6 percent. That is the worst economic performance in 
decades.

That is the situation this President inherited. But it is more than 
that. He is inheriting record deficits; a doubling of the national 
debt; the worst recession since the Great Depression; financial market 
and housing crises, as I indicated; 3.3 million jobs lost in the last 6 
months; and on top of that, ongoing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I have often thought of the crushing responsibility on the shoulders 
of this President, but he is equal to it. I can say, in meeting after 
meeting I have had with him, one of the things that has always appealed 
to me about Barack Obama, now President Obama--not only is he a very 
smart person, but he is remarkably calm.

Even in the face of great crisis, this President maintains a coolness 
under fire. I find it very appealing and very reassuring that with all 
of these crises he is absolutely calm and he is very clear thinking. 
That is what we need at this time.

So when the President came with major priorities in his budget, I 
think many across America thought, those are exactly the right 
priorities. He is talking about reducing our dependence on foreign 
energy, one of his three key priorities; excellence in education. If we 
do not have the best education in the world, we are not going to be the 
strongest country in the world; for very large major health care 
reform, because I think everyone understands that is the 800-pound 
gorilla. That is the thing that could swamp the boat, because we are 
spending $1 of every $6 in this economy on health care, and we are 
headed for more than $1 of every $3 in this economy going to health 
care if we stay on the current trend line. Clearly that is 
unsustainable and the President has called for major health care 
reform.

A continuation of middle-class tax cuts, the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts. 
The President added additional middle-class tax cuts in his budget. All 
the while the President called for these major initiatives, but to do 
it and cut the deficit in half over the 5 years. We have tried our 
level best to meet the President's major priorities, understanding that 
we were going to have to make some changes, because the Congressional 
Budget Office, who did their forecast of revenue available, had done 
their forecast several months after the President's forecast was done. 
In the meantime, the situation, as I have already shown, had 
deteriorated. So we were left with a circumstance in which we had $2.3 
trillion less to write a budget than did the President when he wrote 
his.

When I say $2.3 trillion, I want to emphasize that. I am not talking 
about ''million,'' I am not talking about ''billion,'' I am talking 
about ''trillions'' of dollars. Trillions of dollars. A trillion 
dollars is 1,000 billion dollars; 1,000 billion dollars.

So when we say $2.3 trillion was lost in the forecast of revenue 
available, that is a big deal. I was given the responsibility of 
telling the President that we were faced with that very changed 
circumstance, because the Congressional Budget Office does not report 
to the President, it reports to the Congress. So when we learned of 
this very significant change, I and Chairman Spratt, the chairman of 
the Budget Committee in the House, were given the responsibility to 
meet with the President and to inform him of these very significant 
changes.

As you can imagine, the President was not very happy. But I can tell 
you he is a realist, and he understood immediately the implications. He 
understood immediately that we would have to make some changes in his 
budget. But he asked us to preserve his key priorities, and that is 
what we have attempted to do.

Again, we need to reduce our dependence on foreign energy. I think 
everyone knows, or nearly everyone, that this is one of the major 
fundamental threats to the United States. Our dependence on foreign 
energy, back in 1985, we imported 27 percent of the oil we use. By 
2008, that had increased to 57 percent of the oil we are using being 
imported from abroad, much of it from unstable parts of the world, some 
of them not very friendly to the United States.

So this poses a fundamental long-term economic and security threat to 
our country. The President has rightly identified, even though the 
pressure is off right now because oil prices are way down, that this is 
something we have got to face up to if we are going to have a strong 
America in the future.

So in this budget we have responded with a reserve fund that reduces 
dependence on foreign energy, creates green jobs, helps preserve the 
environment, and helps with high home energy costs. We do it through a 
reserve fund to accommodate legislation, to invest in clean energy, and 
address global climate change.

We also provide the President's level of discretionary funding for 
the Department of Energy for the year. We


build on the economic recovery package investments in renewable energy, 
efficiency, and conservation, low-carbon coal technology, and 
modernizing the electric grid. That process had been started in the 
economic recovery package. It is in the budget; critically important to 
the economic future of the country.

In terms of a focus on excellence in education, there are lots of 
warning signs out there that we are starting to lose the battle to be 
the best educated people in the world. But what are the indications? 
Here is just one. We are now dramatically lagging China in producing 
engineers. You can see, in 1985, each of our countries produced about 
the same number of engineers. We produced, each of us, about 75,000 
engineers.

But look at what has happened since in the United States. The number 
of engineers we are producing has declined to about 65,000. Look at 
what has happened in China. They have increased from about 75,000 to 
more than 440,000 engineers. Now, why is that important? I think we 
know it is important because you have got to have engineers if you are 
going to be building a strong infrastructure. If you do not have a 
strong infrastructure, you do not have a strong base for competition in 
this globalized world economy.

We have done everything we can to capture the President's priority of 
emphasizing excellence in education. We generate economic growth and 
jobs, prepare the workforce to meet the global economy, make college 
more affordable, and improve student achievement. We do it with a 
higher education reserve fund.

To facilitate the President's student aid increases, we extend the 
simplified college tax credit providing up to $2,500 a year, and we 
also focus on the President's requested level of $5,550 for Pell grants 
and fully fund his education priorities, such as early education.

Now, I was raised by my grandparents. My grandmother was a 
schoolteacher. She was five feet tall. We called her Little Chief. We 
called her Little Chief because she commanded respect. And in our 
family, she would tell us there are three priorities: Education is No. 
1. Education is No. 2. And education is No. 3.

I tell you, we got the message, my generation. I have 13 cousins. 
Every one got advanced degrees. We were not a family of any special 
means, a middle-class family. But we understood that education was the 
way to secure a better future. She made it very clear to us that was 
the expectation. We need to reemphasize excellence in education in this 
country.

But we also face an enormous challenge in health care. As I indicated 
in my opening remarks, $1 in every $6 in this economy is going for 
health care. This chart shows 16 percent of our GDP, and we have just 
gotten updated numbers that show now we are over 17 percent of our 
gross domestic product going to health care. If we stay on the current 
trend line, by 2050, 37 percent of our gross domestic product will be 
going for health care. That is utterly unsustainable. It is the biggest 
threat to our long-term deficits and debt. It is the biggest threat to 
our economic competitive position. It is the biggest threat to the 
economic viabilities of families and companies and communities. So this 
is something that must be addressed.

President Obama has called for major health care reform, and we have 
sought to preserve that priority in the budget resolution. We invest in 
health care in an attempt to bend the health care cost curve to save 
money, reduce long-term costs, reduce the buildup of deficits and debt, 
also to improve health, to expand coverage, to increase research, and 
promote food and drug safety.

We do it in three fundamental ways. First, a reserve fund to 
accommodate the President's initiative to reform the health care 
system. What does a reserve fund mean? It means simply this: The 
committees of jurisdiction are given full flexibility to write 
legislation to accomplish the President's goals. But they have certain 
requirements, and the requirement is that they pay for what they 
produce, that it be deficit neutral.

The administration has said all along, that is their intention, and 
we try to match that intention in this budget. The reserve fund also 
addresses Medicare physician payments. It is already scheduled in law 
that doctors will take very significant reductions. We do not want to 
see that happen. So, again, we are saying to the committees of 
jurisdiction: Fix it and pay for it. Fix it and pay for it, because we 
cannot add to the deficit and debt to do it.

Finally, we continue to invest in key health care programs such as 
the National Institutes of Health and the Food and Drug Administration.

On defense, which is always of great interest in terms of a budget 
resolution, we actually provided $45 billion more in funding for 
defense than President Bush's final defense plan. You can see the final 
defense plan of President Bush is this red block. The hatch lines here 
are the additional funding we have provided over the years 2010 to 
2013, because that is as far as the Bush defense plan goes. We provided 
$45 billion more. Frankly, President Obama came forward and said: Look, 
let us more honestly account for war costs than has previously been 
done. In the previous administration, all too often they did not put in 
the budget funding for war. This President did, and we do in the budget 
resolution.

Now, the President also gave us a charge to cut the deficit by more 
than half over the 5 years of the budget resolution. You can see that 
we have done, that this year we project the deficit at $1.7 trillion 
under this budget resolution, and we step it down every year. We will 
reduce it by $500 billion the first year, by $300 billion the second 
year, by another $300 billion the third year, by a little bit the 
fourth year, and by another about $60 billion the final year, to get 
down to $508 billion. That is a reduction of more than two-thirds over 
the 5 years, as a share of gross domestic product, which is what the 
economists like to look at, because that takes out the effect of 
inflation.

You can see we are reducing the deficits from 12.2 percent of gross 
domestic product in 2009, down to less than 3 percent in 2014. That is 
the magic goal, less than 3 percent of gross domestic product. Because 
at that level the economists tell us you stabilize the growth of the 
debt. That is the goal the President set, getting down to 3 percent of 
GDP or less in a deficit in the fifth year, and we beat that goal by a 
little bit.

There has been a lot of talk about the spending in this budget 
resolution. I want to make clear here is what happens. The spending 
again is a share of gross domestic product. Again the economists say 
that is the most fair comparison over time because it takes out the 
effect of inflation. You can see in 2009, we are spending 27.6 percent 
of GDP in this budget. That is a very high level historically. And, of 
course, the reason for it is the tremendous economic downturn, the need 
to provide stimulus to the economy, to provide lift. So spending is at 
a high level as a share of the gross domestic product in 2009.

You can see each and every year we step it down until 2012, and then 
basically it stays at that level for 2013, 2014, at about 22 percent of 
GDP. So we are going from 27.6 percent of GDP this year to 24.5 percent 
in 2010, down to 23.3 in 2011, and then basically stabilize at 22 
percent of GDP through 2014, again getting down to our target of a 
deficit of less than 3 percent of GDP in the fifth year.

Again, on spending, to go into some additional detail, breaking down 
discretionary spending, as you know, in the budget we have mandatory 
spending, things such as Social Security and Medicare. Those are 
mandatory programs, mandatory in the sense that if you qualify, the 
Federal Government pays for what you have coming. Discretionary 
programs are programs that are open for the Appropriations Committee to 
adjust every year. If we look at the discretionary side of our budget, 
we can see, on defense, we are providing the full request by the 
President, a 3.8-percent increase. Internationally, we are not 
providing the President's full request because of the diminished 
resources available to us. So we cut the President's request by $4 
billion. We are still providing an increase of almost 18 percent. Why 
are we giving such a large increase to international accounts? The 
reason is quite simple. We are engaged in two wars.


The Secretary of State called me the weekend before this weekend at 
home. The Secretary of Defense called me at


home. Both delivered the same message. They were a little unhappy, 
disappointed that I was cutting international accounts by $4 billion 
from the President's request. They emphasized the importance of these 
increases because what has been done before is to make supplemental 
requests outside the budget. This President said no more of that. We 
are going to be direct. We are going to be open in the money we are 
requesting. These funds are needed to deal with Iraq and Afghanistan 
and Pakistan and other threats we are facing around the world.

Interestingly, I have never before, in my 22 years in the Budget 
Committee, had the Secretary of Defense call me to support the budget 
for the State Department. Why would the Secretary of Defense call me 
and ask me to increase what I have provided for in the international 
accounts? He told me: There is a lot that is being spent out of the 
Defense Department budget that should be spent out of the State 
Department budget for activities in Afghanistan and Iraq. President 
Obama has put those categories of spending where they belong, and it 
ought to be supported. Of course, I have great respect for them both. I 
had to tell them: When you lose $2.3 trillion, you have to make a lot 
of changes to make it add up. So I felt compelled to reduce these 
accounts from the President's request.

Domestic spending, we increase by 6 percent. The President asked for 
more in that category. Again, we simply could not make the numbers work 
without making reductions.

So the total in this area, $1.03 trillion, is from last year. This 
year it is $1.08 trillion, for a combined increase in discretionary 
spending of 5.3 percent. We can see on nondefense discretionary, that 
combines international and domestic, we are giving a 7-percent 
increase. The President asked for over 10 percent. Again, I know there 
are people who are disappointed. I am sorry, but my responsibility is 
to deal with the reality with which I am presented. The reality I was 
presented with was $2.3 trillion less in revenue. I have had to make 
reductions in the discretionary accounts. I have had to make reductions 
in mandatory accounts. I have had to make changes on the tax side of 
the ledger in order to get the deficit down to a sustainable level.

Revenue changes in the budget resolution: I have heard some say we 
have all these tax increases. That is not what the Congressional Budget 
Office says, when they look at my budget and look at all the proposals 
and compare it to current law. They conclude that I am providing $825 
billion of tax reduction. That is a different story than we hear coming 
from some quarters. That is not my claim. This is what the 
Congressional Budget Office finds when they look at my budget and 
compare it to current law. Why the difference? First, we have extended 
all the middle-class tax relief provided in 2001 and 2003; 
specifically, the 10-percent bracket, the child tax credit, the 
marriage penalty relief. All that is continued in this budget, as well 
as education incentives. On top of that, alternative minimum tax reform 
costs $216 billion to prevent 24 million Americans from being subjected 
to the alternative minimum tax. We also have estate tax reform; estate 
tax reform at $3.5 million an individual, $7 million a couple. Those 
people who have estates of less than that amount will pay zero in 
estate tax. Over 99 percent of the estates in America will pay zero, 
nothing, not a penny. That is a reform that needed to be made. It is 
included in this budget. The President called for it, and we have 
adopted it.

We also have a series of business provisions and the so-called tax 
extenders, things that need to be adjusted every year. We do it in this 
budget for a subtotal of tax relief of $958 billion. We have an offset 
to that, certain loophole closures, shutting down abusive tax havens, 
abusive tax shelters, offshore tax dodges that will raise $133 billion 
for total tax cuts of $825 billion.

In the President's budget, he has recommended that we not continue 
all the tax relief contained in the 2001 and 2003 acts for people 
earning over $250,000 a year. We have adopted that recommendation in 
this budget. All of the middle-class tax relief from 2001 and 2003 is 
here. It is funded. It is provided for.

In addition, the President called for additional tax reductions for 
middle-class people, the so-called make work pay provisions. Two years 
of that is already funded in the economic recovery package. So that 
will continue for the next 2 years. The President wanted to make that 
program permanent. Again, we could not do that in light of the new 
forecast. So we have provided that those make work pay provisions can 
be extended, if they are paid for. They will continue for the next 2 
years, but after that, if they were to be extended, they would have to 
be paid for.

We also provide for important budget enforcement in the budget 
resolution. We have discretionary caps for 2009 and 2010. We maintain a 
strong pay-go rule. We have a point of order against long-term deficit 
increases, a point of order against short-term deficit increases. We 
allow reconciliation for deficit reduction only, which was the original 
purpose of reconciliation. We provide a point of order against 
mandatory spending on an appropriations bill; no backdoor stuff that 
used to go on, people raiding the Federal Treasury by coming in here 
and changing mandatory spending on an appropriations bill.

The budget resolution also addresses our long-term fiscal challenges 
in these ways. No. 1, we have the health reform reserve fund. That is 
absolutely the key element to dealing with our long-term buildup of 
deficits and debt. That is the part of our spending that is absolutely 
out of control. The only way to get it back under control is 
fundamental health care reform which is provided for in this budget on 
a deficit-neutral basis. We also have program integrity initiatives to 
crack down on waste, fraud and abuse and a long-term deficit increase 
point of order to require 60 votes to increase the deficit long term.

President Obama has said this about the need for further work on our 
long-term fiscal situation. Let me be clear: The first 5 years--this 
budget is a 5-year budget--we do quite a good job, a credible job of 
getting the deficit down. We reduce it by more than two-thirds. We get 
it down to less than 3 percent of GDP. But the second 5 years of the 
President's plan, even if we extended our budget for 5 years, is going 
to require much more effort. We are on an unsustainable course for the 
long term. In the next 5 years, I think we have done a credible job of 
moving in the right direction, reducing the deficit by two-thirds. But 
beyond the 5 years, we have big problems on the horizon.

The start in this budget to deal with it is health care reform 
because it is the 800-pound gorilla. But it is going to take more than 
that. It is also going to take tax reform because we have a tax system 
that is hemorrhaging to these offshore tax havens, abusive tax shelters 
and, frankly, a system that is very inefficient at collecting the 
revenue that is due. If we collected the money that is due under the 
current Tax Code, we would have no structural deficit. We wouldn't need 
any tax increase. If we just collected the money that is due under the 
current tax levels, we would have no structural deficit. The problem 
is, we aren't collecting the money that is due under the current code. 
We are only collecting about 75 percent of what is due. A big reason 
for that is the explosion of offshore tax havens, abusive tax shelters, 
the tax gap. All those things are rendering the tax system very 
ineffective.

The President recognizes the need for further action to address the 
long-term fiscal imbalance as well. He said:




 Now, I want to be very clear. While we are making important 


 progress towards fiscal responsibility this year, in this 


 budget, this is just the beginning. In the coming years, 


 we'll be forced to make more tough choices, and do much more 


 to address our long-term challenges.


That is the truth. We are going to have to do much more in those 
years beyond the 5 years of this budget.

Finally, I would like to address the question of a 5-year budget 
versus a 10-year budget. The President sent us a 10-year budget. We 
have written a 5-year budget. Some have said that is an attempt to 
conceal the effect of the second 5 years. The President sent us a 10-
year budget. It has been fully scored by the Congressional Budget 
Office. There is no hiding of anything. The President provided us a 10-
year budget. I was critical of the previous administration for not 
providing a 10-year budget because I was concerned they


were hiding the effect of their tax cuts in the second 5 years. This 
President has made no attempt to conceal his 10-year plan. He sent it 
to us. It has been scored by the Congressional Budget Office. We know 
what it is.


But Congress, when it writes budgets, has almost always written a 5-
year budget. In fact, of the 34 budgets Congress has written under the 
Budget Act, 30 have been 5-year budgets. Why? Because the projections 
for year 6 through year 10, the projections for revenues and 
expenditures for years 6 through 10, have been woefully inaccurate. 
They have been notoriously unreliable. But never have I seen them more 
unreliable than right now. That's because of the extraordinary 
uncertainty we're facing in the near term. Inaccuracies in the 
forecasts for the next several years will compound into huge 
differences in years 6 through 10.

So we wrote a 5-year budget that fully discloses the spending and 
revenue for the 5 years. We did not write a 10-year budget. Congress 
almost never has. But the President did. And the President's 10-year 
plan is fully disclosed.

We have done our level best to make changes that were necessary in 
what the President sent us in order to address his key priorities and 
at the same time to reduce the deficit in the way that he called for 
and to reach a deficit that was less than 3 percent of GDP in the fifth 
year.

I am proud of what we have done. Is it a perfect document? The work 
of men and women is never perfect. We are flawed. I will confess to 
that. To me, the greatest flaw is we still have not fully coped with 
the long-term deficit and debt challenge to this country. Much more 
will have to be done.

Senator Gregg and I have one proposal. We have a proposal for a task 
force that would require Members of Congress and the administration--16 
of them--to be given a responsibility to come up with a plan to get our 
long-term deficit and debt condition in order. If 12 of the 16 could 
agree, that plan would come to Congress for a vote.

I believe it is going to take some special effort, some special 
structure to deal with these long-term deficits and debt threats. I 
want to say for myself, I do believe the long-term debt accumulation 
does fundamentally threaten the economic security of America. While we 
have a good start in this first 5 years, much more must be done.

Mr. President, I thank you for this time.

I will yield the floor.

Before I do it, I thank Senator Gregg, the ranking member of the 
Budget Committee. There are many policy issues that divide us. There 
are some where we are joined at the hip. But Senator Gregg has been a 
thorough professional in all of the work of the Budget Committee this 
year. His staff is outstanding as well. I recognize Senator Gregg as 
somebody who has credibility. He may say some things that are somewhat 
uncharitable about the budget I am presenting today. I understand that. 
That is his job. He has strong feelings, and I applaud him for them 
because that is what we need. If everybody in the room thinks the same 
thing, nobody is thinking very much. I will tell you one thing, Senator 
Gregg is thinking. He cares deeply about the economic future of this 
country, and he is doing his level best to get us on a path that makes 
more sense. I applaud him for it. But I would be remiss if I did not 
recognize the professionalism and leadership he has exhibited in the 
work of the Budget Committee this year. In no way does that mean he 
endorses this plan. He will make very clear he does not. He strongly 
disagrees, as is his right. But I do want to recognize the very good 
working relationship we enjoy.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.