---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONCURRENCE BY HOUSE WITH AMENDMENT IN SENATE AMENDMENT  TO H.R. 4253, MILITARY RESERVIST AND VETERAN SMALL BUSINESS  REAUTHORIZATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT OF 2008
## `ddd291f49bf82ca6e684e6db5935fa87`
`Ms. VELAZQUEZ — 16 January 2008`

---


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, this body has heard time and again of 
the courage, discipline and selflessness with which our veterans serve 
this Nation. What is less well known, however, are the contributions 
that veterans make to our Nation's economy.

Last month, 407 Members of this House voted to pass H.R. 4253. This 
bill represented an important step toward a comprehensive update of the 
Small Business Administration's veterans assistance programs, programs 
which remove barriers to veterans' self-employment and provide veteran 
entrepreneurs with support for growth and expansion. Again, I wish to 
commend Congressman Jason Altmire and Congressman Vern Buchanan for 
their leadership on this legislation.

Not long after this body passed H.R. 4253, the Senate took up the 
legislation and offered a number of changes. The resolution we are 
considering today provides for the concurrence in the Senate amendment 
and makes additional changes of our own.

The amendment in this resolution does two things. First, the 
amendment makes technical revisions to clarify language in the bill. 
Second, the amendment removes a nongermane provision that was inserted 
by the Senate amendment to H.R. 4253.

As the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan continue, the number of returning 
veterans will only increase. Our support for veterans, however, does 
not end with their deployment. We must continue to work to support 
these budding entrepreneurs as they reach for the American dream of 
business ownership. I believe the underlying bill is a major step 
towards realizing this goal, and I strongly support this legislation. I 
urge my colleagues to support this resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.