# TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `ddd668ccdd7023b1ddefbe345827c8d9`
`Mr. SPECTER — 16 September 2009`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, this has also been supported by Senator 
Casey, Congressman Mike Doyle, in whose district it is, and by 
Allegheny County Executive Dan Onorato, the county council, the Mount 
Washington community, and by two representatives of the Pennsylvania 
General Assembly, Senator Wayne Fontana and Representative Chelsa 
Wagner.

It is hard to envisage a more appropriate use of $200,000 than is 
present here. It is a clear-cut matter of looking to the Federal 
Government to fulfill its responsibility to an area that has become 
blighted, a waste site that should have been cleaned up a long time ago 
under Federal law.















 Amendment No. 2410


Mr. President, in addition to the considerations on the Mount 
Washington Community Development Corporation, I am opposed to the 
amendment No. 2410, which would prohibit the use of funds for the John 
Murtha Johnstown-Cambria County Airport.

A similar amendment was defeated in the House of Representatives by a 
decisive vote of 263 to 154. This airport supports 45,000 takeoffs and 
landings per year.

The Cambria County Airport receives Federal funding from the 
Essential Air Service, a program run by the Department of 
Transportation on a formula basis to rural regions. The recently passed 
stimulus also provides funding but on a purely competitive basis.

The Johnstown Airport is one of many airports across the United 
States that receive Essential Air Service annual funding. The current 
subsidy is $1.4 million or just over $100 per passenger. There are 152 
similar regional airports around the country, including a number in my 
State, in Altoona, Bradford, Dubois, Lancaster, and Oil City. Johnstown 
Airport ranks only 40th in the per-passenger subsidies.

The majority of the $150 million that critics cite was funded for 
military purposes.

There are over 1,000 Guard and Reserve troops stationed at the 
airport, and they use these facilities daily. These troops have been 
involved in over 19 overseas deployments in the last 5 years alone to 
Iraq, Afghanistan, and other areas around the world. The upgrades 
funded in previous years were essential to keep these troops in a 
proper state of readiness to sustain such a high rate of deployment.

National Guard LTC Christopher Cleaver had this to say:




 The airport is a vital part of the Guard's strategic 


 deployment plans. In today's climate of warfare, it's 


 extremely prudent to be able to move fast.



 We have a commitment to mobilize in 96 hours. It's a great 


 advantage to have a runway at your doorstep to quickly move 


 to anywhere in the world.


On this basis, I think the appropriation is entirely warranted.















 amendment no. 2366


Mr. President, I have sought recognition to discuss my vote against 
an amendment offered to the fiscal year 2010 Transportation and Housing 
and Urban Development Appropriations bill. the amendment, offered by 
Senator Roger Wicker, would cut off funding for Amtrak unless it amends 
its current policy and allows passengers to transport firearms by March 
31, 2010. It is my understanding that Amtrak implemented the firearm 
ban in 2004 after it conducted a review and evaluation of security 
measures following the attacks on passenger trains in Madrid on April 
11, 2004.

Though Amtrak ought to have authority to set policy that is in its 
best interest, I am reluctant to support a policy that prohibits law 
abiding citizens from carrying permitted firearms. This policy was the 
subject of a similar amendment that Senator Wicker introduced on April 
2, 2009, to the fiscal year 2010 budget resolution. The budget 
resolution established a reserve fund for multimodal transportation 
projects and Senator Wicker's amendment to the budget disqualified 
Amtrak from accessing this proposed reserve fund if it did not allow 
passengers to transport firearms. I supported that amendment and it 
passed 63-35. However, the passage of that amendment did not jeopardize 
Amtrak's regular annual appropriation.

On the other hand, Senator Wicker's amendment on September 16, 2009, 
to the Appropriations bill may ultimately result in a complete cutoff 
of Federal funding for Amtrak. The legislation we are considering 
includes $1.574 billion for Amtrak and this funding is critical to 
maintaining our national passenger rail system. Amtrak provides a vital 
service for the entire Nation and I have consistently advocated for 
robust Federal funding to support its operations. Cutting off Federal 
funding would cause passenger rail operations to cease and deprive 
millions of Americans from an important mode of transportation. I am 
not willing to risk stranding Amtrak users in order to compel Amtrak to 
amend its firearm policy.

We ought to consider Amtrak's firearm policy independently from the 
appropriations process. Should Congress decide to mandate a revision to 
this policy, Amtrak ought to be given sufficient time to ensure it has 
proper personnel and infrastructure in place without the threat of 
funding cuts for not meeting an unrealistic implementation deadline.

Mr. President, I also wish to describe an amendment I have introduced 
to the fiscal year 2010 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. This amendment preserves 
funding which has already been secured for a critical project in 
Pennsylvania.

The corridor along U.S. route 422 in southeastern Pennsylvania has 
experienced rapid population growth over the past decade including many 
daily commuters to Philadelphia. This population expansion has led to 
significant congestion along route 422 in Montgomery and Berks 
Counties. Transportation officials and community leaders in the area 
have for years worked diligently developing proposals to mitigate the 
congestion and expand mobility options for residents living along the 
corridor.

The community has made considerable progress in this effort over the 
past 2 years, including completion in 2008 of a study to consider the 
feasibility of extending an existing rail line and commencement in 2009 
of a study to explore long-term financing options for a commuter rail 
system and maintenance of route 422. Additionally, on August 24, 2009, 
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood joined me for a roundtable meeting 
with local public officials and transportation leaders to discuss the 
problem and these recent developments.

The amendment I have introduced would simply preserve funding that 
was included in appropriation bills from previous years to support the 
local effort in this important undertaking.

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.