# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `ddda0b92a9292589b16e35d4954ea5cd`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Madam President, in his letter, General Conway writes:




 Procurement of less than the optimum ramp up of 28 H-1s in 


 fiscal year 2010 will lead to continued reliance on aging 


 helicopters that should have been retired from the inventory 


 years ago. As we focus on operations in Afghanistan, 


 sustaining the introduction of the H-1 is vital for our 


 future success.


He continues:




 Because of the severe operational limitations of the Corps' 


 legacy helicopters, the Marines are transitioning toward the 


 significantly improved capabilities of the UH-1Y.


General Conway points out that the Corps has already sent three UH-1Y 
to Afghanistan and will deploy its full squadron of them this November. 
This is a plane the Marines desperately need in combat today.

I also want to read from a letter I received from Major General 
Bockel, retired, Army Reserve, now acting director of the Reserve 
Officers Association. General Bockel says in his letter to me:




 The Reserve Officers Association, representing 65,000 


 Reserve Component members, supports the Lieberman-McCain 


 Alternate Engine Amendment. This amendment restores critical 


 funding to procure helicopters that the United States Marine 


 Corps urgently needs in Afghanistan.


I suspect the Reserve Officers Association will no more support an 
effort to ask our special operations forces, as the second-degree or 
side-by-side amendment Senator Bayh will offer, to pay the bill for an 
unnecessary second engine than he was to see our Marines foot the bill.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record Major General 
Bockel's letter.