# PRODUCT SAFETY
## `dddce1f32088172618f6d37c13434744`
`Mr. DORGAN — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I am going to offer an amendment to the 
underlying bill. My understanding is there is an amendment pending. I 
can withhold the amendment. I have not yet filed it. Let me at least 
describe for this moment the amendment, and then I will file it and 
offer it with the consent of the chairman and the ranking member.

In this morning's newspaper there is a story of a great tragedy in 
Mexico. It says: 37 die in Mexico truck blast accident. Monterrey, 
Mexico. Thirty-seven people killed when a truck loaded with explosives 
crashed into another truck in northern Mexico, Mexican media reported 
on Monday. About 150 people were injured by the blast, which left a 
crater of up to 65 feet in diameter in the road. Most of the dead were 
bystanders, including three newspaper journalists who had rushed to the 
scene of the crash and the truck exploded, the paper said. That area is 
a mining State where explosives are used in the coal industry.

Why is that something I raise today? Well, we also had something that 
happened last week that was pretty unbelievable. The inspector general 
issued a report, and the report is titled: ''Issues Pertaining to the 
Proposed NAFTA Cross-Border Trucking Demonstration Project.'' What this 
means is they have issued a report on whether we ought to allow long-
haul Mexican trucks to come into this country and begin trucking in our 
country.

Well, we then have an accident in Mexico of two trucks. Tragically, 
37 people are killed, 150 are injured, with a crater in the highway of 
65 feet.

And then we have the Bush administration that last week rushed--yes, 
I say rushed--to approve the pilot project of some 100 trucking firms 
to do long-haul trucking in our country.

The inspector general's report, which I have, is 40-some pages long. 
I had previously cosponsored an amendment with some of my colleagues 
saying that they had to wait to allow long-haul truckers from Mexico to 
do long-haul trucking in our country until they could have an inspector 
general's report which analyzed the advisability of this pilot program.

So they could not proceed with the pilot program despite the fact 
that they were itching to do it. But they were impeded from proceeding 
until they got the inspector general's report. The inspector general's 
report came in at 7:30 last Thursday evening.

At 8:30 the same evening--presumably having read 40-some pages--the 
attorneys and the administrator at the Department of Transportation 
announced that the pilot program would begin. So in 1 hour, the 
Department of Transportation evaluated this inspector general's 
report--or maybe not.

Let me describe some of what this report is about. First, the 
inspector general's finding--the inspector general's finding, 
Department of Transportation only looking at records that the Mexican 
trucking companies make ''available.'' Here is what it says:




 While the Department of Transportation officials inspecting 


 Mexican trucking companies took steps to certify onsite data, 


 we noted that certain information was not available to them. 


 Specifically, information pertaining to vehicle inspections, 


 accident reports, and driver violations maintained by Mexican 


 authorities was not available to the Department of 


 Transportation.


I will say that again. This is very stunning, almost unbelievable. 
The Department of Transportation says it has now evaluated all of 
this--the pertinent information--and has decided now to trigger the 
pilot project by which Mexican long-haul trucks will be moved into this 
country, but they weren't able to verify the onsite data. What weren't 
they able to verify? Well, vehicle inspections, accident reports, and 
driver violations.

Why am I concerned about this whole issue? Because I know--and I 
think most people know--that you don't have the same circumstance in 
Mexico with respect to truck safety, with respect to requirements, 
regulations, and inspections; you don't have the same enforcement with 
respect to driver standards, hours of service, and all of those related 
issues. The practices are not equivalent. So if we move a trucking 
fleet into this country from Mexico that doesn't have equivalent safety 
requirements and standards, and drivers who have not been required to 
meet the same standards and have enforcement to the same standards, 
then there is no question but that we put at risk drivers on America's 
streets, roads, and highways. That is a fact.

Yet this administration is so anxious to move that they took only 1 
hour to evaluate the IG report. They tell us: We have all this under 
control. Don't worry, be happy; it doesn't matter what truck you are 
driving next to ours or what truck you are going to meet at a four-way 
stop sign; it is all under control--except they weren't able to get 
information about vehicle inspections. That means they weren't able to 
get that information on Mexican trucks. They weren't able to get 
information about accident reports. They weren't able to get 
information about driver violations. What were they able to get?

Is this one of those ''trust us'' things? I think we have had enough 
of these ''trust us'' claims. How about verifying just a bit some of 
the basic


information we need to know and understand before we decide to allow 
Mexican long-haul trucks beyond that 25-mile perimeter they have been 
allowed to drive since NAFTA. Well, as I indicated, it took this 
administration all of 1 hour to approve this pilot project.

Let me provide the next chart that shows the key issue. The inspector 
general's report doesn't resolve these issues. You would think the 
Department of Transportation, having some sort of epiphany at 8:30 in 
the evening, must have felt everything was resolved. If they read the 
IG report, here is what it says:




 Inconsistent data used to monitor Mexican commercial 


 driving convictions in the U.S. Lack of coordination with the 


 Department of Transportation offices to ensure that drug and 


 alcohol testing issues are addressed. Lack of Federal motor 


 vehicle policy to check and record vehicle identification 


 numbers during an inspection. Inadequate Mexican bus 


 inspection coverage during busy periods.


I went to page 2 of the IG report. Page 2 on the report is a response 
to what the administration said. They said, if we can allow these long-
haul Mexican trucks in, we are going to inspect every one of them under 
the pilot project. If we get one coming North, we are inspecting it. We 
are going to put an inspector on the vehicle. We are going to inspect 
the vehicle. Here is what the IG report says: They agreed to develop a 
plan to check every truck every time. But as of July 2007--that is a 
little less than a month ago--no coordinated site-specific plans to 
carry out such checks were in place. Federal Motor Vehicle Carrier said 
it would have plans outlined by August 22, but the IG says we have not 
received any outlines or completed plans.




 In our opinion, not having site-specific plans developed 


 and in place prior to initiating the demonstration project 


 will increase the risk that project participants will be able 


 to avoid the required checks.


I will not read that all again. It means this: Despite the promises 
that they are going to inspect every truck every time, they don't have 
plans in place to do that. Those are pie-in-the-sky promises. We have 
had a bellyful of them. Time after time, they say here is what we are 
going to do and we commit, trust us. On this subject, the fact is we 
should not trust anybody. We should say show us the plan that is going 
to guarantee the next time you show up at a four-way stop, or you are 
driving down a highway in this country, and you are confronted by a 
truck that came across our border from Mexico, that that truck has met 
an equivalent safety standard as an American truck, and that that 
driver and his or her record of service and the conditions of service 
and the hours of service are equivalent to what you would expect with 
an American driver. If that is not the case, then there ought not to be 
a pilot project at this point.


I only referred to page 2 of the report. As I indicated, they took a 
little less than 1 hour last Thursday evening to decide to approve the 
pilot project after they were prevented from doing so until this report 
came out. It is clear to me that they either didn't read the report or 
didn't understand the report, because this report doesn't suggest at 
all that what has been put into place represents any kind of safety or 
security for American drivers when confronting a Mexican long-haul 
truck coming across the border.

Do I allege that every truck that will come across is unsafe, that 
every American should shudder at the risk of pulling up to an 
intersection with them? That is not my point. We have two different 
standards with respect to the enforcement of safety requirements, with 
respect to trucks and drivers in Mexico versus the trucks and drivers 
in the United States. To decide at this moment that we are going to 
merge these systems without providing the assurance to the American 
people they are going to do what they say they are going to do--inspect 
every truck every time--that is a decision by the Department of 
Transportation to provide extraordinary risks they should not provide 
for American drivers.

Let me again put up a chart that shows three issues on which you 
would have to know, it seems to me, at least the body of information if 
you were serious about saying we are going to implement the NAFTA, 
which itself--by the way, in my conversation a few moments ago with the 
Senator from Ohio, we could have described our trade failures, and the 
hood ornament of that failure is certainly NAFTA, an agreement we 
reached with Mexico and Canada. At the time, we had a very small trade 
surplus with Mexico. We have turned that into a very large trade 
deficit with Mexico now. We had a modest trade deficit with Canada, and 
we have now turned that into a very large one. By all accounts and 
standards, NAFTA has been a huge failure for this country. It ought to 
be, in my judgment, renegotiated, but those who chant ''free trade'' 
and believe that any trade agreement is better than no trade agreement 
continue to say NAFTA was a success, despite all of the evidence. It is 
very hard to describe success as very large and growing trade deficits. 
NAFTA, apparently, indicated that we should integrate our trucking and, 
therefore, Mexican trucks should be allowed into this country for long-
haul capability. But in order to do that, we would harmonize the safety 
standards in Mexico and the United States with respect to equipment and 
drivers.

So the Department of Transportation, anxious as it is to allow long-
haul Mexican trucking into this country right now and, again, with a 
pilot program right now, they have tried to assure us there is no risk, 
no problem, be happy. The problem is the very IG report they rely on to 
trigger the pilot project, in my judgment, tells them they should not 
do it at all; there is substantial risk. You would need to have a body 
of information about what is happening with respect to Mexican trucking 
in order to make this judgment. What kind of information did they get? 
They didn't get accident reports because there wasn't any central 
repository of information for the reports. They didn't get vehicle 
inspections. They didn't have that information. They didn't get driver 
violations--with one exception; that exception was the Mexican 
companies that decided voluntarily to provide the information. They 
have that--whatever that is. It is not very much, but they have that. 
That doesn't represent any information that is validated by anybody.

It is unbelievable to me that they would rush off and--I know this 
about transportation, but it seems to me if anybody should be arrested 
for speeding here, it is those who have decided they are going to rush 
and speed to approve this pilot project less than 1 hour after the IG 
report comes out, at a time when the IG says clearly they have not been 
able to get the information you would need.

Again, on page 2 of the IG report, I will say it again because it is 
central to what I am saying on the floor of the Senate, the Department 
of Transportation says they will inspect every truck every time with 
respect to this pilot project. Let me say, again, here are the facts. 
They agreed to develop a plan to check every truck every time. But as 
of July 2007, a month ago, no coordinated site-specific plan to carry 
out such checks was in place. They stated they would have plans 
outlined by August 22 at that point. That is about 2 weeks ago.

But the IG says that ''we have not received any outlines or completed 
plans.'' ''In our opinion,'' they say, ''not having site-specific plans 
developed and in place prior to initiating the demonstration project 
will increase the risk that project participants will be able to avoid 
the required checks.'' What the IG is saying is if you don't have a 
plan in place to inspect every truck every time, you increase the risk 
that these participants will be able to avoid the required checks.

I think this sets us up for failure, but, more importantly, it 
imposes substantial additional risks, I believe, for American drivers.

First and foremost, with respect to our trade agreements, they ought 
to be able to protect this country's economic interests and our 
interests with respect to safety. I don't believe the actions by the 
Department of Transportation have done that.

I don't believe the inspector general's report suggests that standard 
has been met. For that reason, I will offer an amendment that is 
identical to the amendment previously passed by the House that will 
prohibit the use of funds to continue this pilot project.

Thursday, at 8:30 in the evening, 1 hour after the inspector 
general's report was published, the administration


announced they were embarking on the pilot project. I don't know 
exactly where they are at this moment on it, but wherever that happens 
to be, the House of Representatives has already said no, and I believe 
the Senate, in support of my amendment, will do exactly the same thing.

There is an amendment pending on the floor of the Senate. I will 
shortly file my amendment, and I will call it up at an appropriate 
time. But I wish to make a comment on another matter very briefly, if I 
may.



















Iraq


General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker are now testifying before the 
House of Representatives. Most of us know from this morning's news 
reports and from the expectations last week what the report will be 
today. The report will be as existed now for a good many years, longer 
than the Second World War has lasted. That is how long we have been 
engaged in the war in Iraq. The report will be: Things are getting 
better; there is marginal improvement; things are uneven; we can't 
leave; we have to stay. That is going to be the report. We understand.

I wish to raise the question again, however, that I think is being 
missed with the Petraeus report and the Crocker report, and missed by 
Congress as well.

Last week, we were told that we received a message from Osama bin 
Laden. Osama bin Laden, in a ''safe and secure'' hideaway--and I use 
the words ''safe and secure'' in quotes because that is what our 
intelligence officials have indicated to us--in a safe and secure 
hideaway, we are receiving messages from the leadership of al-Qaida. 
The last National Intelligence Estimate, just months ago, indicated 
that the greatest threat to our country and our homeland is the 
leadership of al-Qaida and that they are ensconced in a safe or secure 
hideaway.

My question is this: Despite all of the reports we will now hear on 
the subject of Iraq, does it meet any kind of test of faith or good 
strategy that we should be going door to door in Baghdad in the middle 
of a civil war at a time when those planning additional attacks against 
our country are in safe and secure havens in northern Pakistan, at a 
time when the National Intelligence Estimate says that the greatest 
threat to our homeland--this is not me making this up--the greatest 
terrorist threat to this country and our homeland is from the 
leadership of al-Qaida, and they are planning new attacks, does it make 
sense there is a spot on Earth that ought to be safe and secure for 
them? Isn't it the case there ought not be 1 square inch on this planet 
6 years after 9/11 that the leadership of al-Qaida can plan and plot 
attacks against our country?

I guess that is the case because we are in the middle, once again, of 
civil war in Iraq and have been for a long while, and we will, if we 
agree there shall not be a change in course, remain in Iraq for some 
long while.

My own view is we are going to leave Iraq. The question is not 
whether; the question is how and when. It makes little sense to me not 
to have as a priority, not to have as the priority in our country to 
eliminate the greatest terrorist threat to our country, and that, 
according to the National Intelligence Estimate, is the leadership of 
al-Qaida.

Some will make the point that there is al-Qaida in Iraq, and that is 
true. That is not the central war on terror, however, and Iraq is not 
the central war on terror. Iraq is more sectarian violence. The 
National Intelligence Estimate tells us that as well.

All of us hope for the same thing. We want this country to find its 
way; we would wish that the leadership of Iraq will be able to provide 
strong leadership, resolve the questions, and then at some point find a 
way to provide for its own security. Saddam Hussein has been executed; 
he is dead. The people of Iraq have a new constitution; they voted for 
it. The people of Iraq have a new government; they voted for that 
government. The next question for the people of Iraq is whether they 
have the capability and the will to provide for their own security 
because this country cannot do that for many more years, and we do that 
at the expense of not eliminating the most significant threat to our 
country, according to the National Intelligence Estimate, and that 
threat is the leadership of al-Qaida that sits now in a safe haven, a 
safe and secure place.

I say again, as I conclude, that even as we have testimony today 
before the House and tomorrow before the Senate, our goal ought to be 
to fight the terrorists first, and those terrorists, according to the 
National Intelligence Estimate, plan additional attacks against our 
homeland even now from safe and secure places. There ought not be 1 
square inch on this planet that should be safe and secure for the 
leadership of the terrorist organizations plotting attacks against our 
country. That ought to be our priority.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.