---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `dde17058994a44146381133906e674c0`
`Mr. BISHOP of Georgia — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise in favor of H.R. 4899, the 
Supplemental Appropriations for FY 2010.



As a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, I, 
along with many of my colleagues, have been integrally involved in the 
oversight of our nation's funding and support of our efforts in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, as well as other initiatives aimed at supporting our war 
fighters.

The Senate's bill, which we are considering tonight, provides $58.8 
billion in supplemental funds for FY 2010, including $37.1 billion for 
the war and $5.1 billion for FEMA, as well as $13 billion in mandatory 
funds to Vietnam Veterans exposed to Agent Orange.

While I do support the President's request for additional funding to 
support our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq, it is important that we 
continue to monitor and assess our mission and role in both of these 
countries, particularly given the array of investments we need to make 
right here at home.

Since 2001, Congress has provided close to $1 trillion in direct 
funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan as part of 18 emergency 
supplemental bills, not including the support we provided for the 
efforts in our regular annual Appropriations bills. Combined, it's 
estimated that we've spent between $1.5 trillion to almost to $3 
trillion so far on these wars.

So I am very pleased that the amendments made in order by the rule 
will also provide us an opportunity to provide additional funding to 
the Senate passed bill for critical domestic programs, including $10 
billion for education jobs, $5 billion for Pell grants and $701 million 
for border security.

Of particular note, I am very pleased that the bill will include 
funds to settle both the Cobell v. Salazar and Pigford v. Vilsack class 
action lawsuits and it provides $1 billion for youth jobs.

Finally, the supplemental will also include funding which is vital to 
an important segment of my constituency, our farmers and agricultural 
producers. The bill provides the Farm Service Agency (FSA), which is 
housed within the Department of Agriculture, with an additional $31.5 
million to cover the costs associated with direct loans, guaranteed 
loans, operating loans and administrative expenses, which are so vital 
to our farmers, particularly in South Georgia.

The bill will require that the loans be made available to family 
farmers who may not qualify for agricultural credit through other 
commercial institutions in the tight credit market. While the FY2010 
Agriculture Appropriations bill provided enough funding to meet demand 
at the time it was passed last year, demand for the farm ownership and 
operating loan programs has been dramatically higher than historical 
levels due to the lack of availability of conventional credit.

Mr. Speaker, this Supplemental bill strikes, what I believe to be a 
fair and balanced approach for the emergency needs of our war fighters 
abroad and the critical domestic issues we face right here at home, and 
I support the bill.