# None
## `dde63c9773bd0f5dc73c7c2a5d6867e9`
`Mr. ROSS — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Kentucky, former State auditor, 
former State attorney general for his leadership within the fiscally 
conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, and someone who played an 
important role in helping us draft this resolution, House Resolution 
97. And I certainly thank him for helping sponsor this resolution that, 
hopefully, we will get through the House to demand accountability, 
fiscal responsibility and accountability for how this administration 
spends billions of tax money, Mr. Speaker, in a place a long way from 
Arkansas and a long way from America, and that is in Iraq.

And I couldn't help but think when the gentleman from Kentucky was 
talking about accountability, I think it is important to note that 
Congress has appropriated over $25 billion to various departments and 
agencies for reconstruction projects that are intended to improve the 
lives and living standards of the Iraqi people, and, yes, to endear 
them to our way of life; and yet we find that only half the projects 
have been completed.

For example, the Special Inspector General for Iraq reconstruction 
reported that funds allocated for health care projects, health care 
projects, are more than 65 percent expended--that is, the funds--but 
fewer than 36 percent of the projects have been completed. Funds were 
allocated for construction of 142 primary health care clinics and only 
20 were completed.

Likewise, the Inspector General reported that a contract was made to 
construct 20 rehabilitation hospitals, and only 12 were completed.

A New York Times report found that thousands of weapons intended for 
Iraqi forces, the good guys in Iraq, our allies in Iraq, are missing. 
This study investigated 19, count them, 19 contracts that totaled $133 
million for more than 370,000 weapons. No one knows where these weapons 
are. Three hundred seventy thousand weapons in Iraq, bought with U.S. 
tax money, are missing, and no one can account for them.

We need accountability in Iraq.