---
---

# INTRODUCING THE IRAQI REFUGEE AND INTERNALLY DISPLACED PERSONS  HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE, RESETTLEMENT AND SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `ddeb474ceb435d1f3b44764a2bc75d05`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce a 
vital piece of legislation to raise awareness of the impending 
humanitarian crisis and security breakdown as a result of the mass 
influx of Iraqi refugees into neighboring countries, and the growing 
internally displaced population in Iraq.

Our legislation addresses this issue by increasing directed 
accountable assistance to these populations and their host countries, 
increasing border security, facilitating the resettlement of Iraqis at 
risk and broadening domestic relocation assistance.

Madam Speaker, whether you agree or disagree with U.S. policy in 
Iraq, one thing is crystal clear, we have a humanitarian crisis 
manifesting in the region that cannot be ignored.

Let's examine the facts. Iraqis are now the third-largest displaced 
population in the world and the fastest-growing refugee population 
globally. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Refugees, UNHCR, estimates that there are some 2.2 million Iraqis 
displaced internally and at least another 2 million Iraqis have sought 
refuge in neighboring countries.

Many of these Iraqi refugees and internally displaced persons lack 
adequate food, shelter and other basic services. Further, the massive 
flow of refugees into neighboring countries is straining the social, 
economic, and security fabric of the host nations and threatens to 
destabilize the entire Middle East region.

My own efforts to address this looming calamity began in August when 
I wrote to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice highlighting the need 
for the United States to address this devastating situation with strong 
financial support, either through bilateral assistance or funding for 
international organizations that are working directly with the refugee 
and internally displaced populations.

In response to my letter, on September 7, 2007, I, along with 
Helsinki Commission Cochairman Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) and 
Helsinki Commissioner Congressman Joseph R. Pitts (R-PA), received a 
briefing by Assistant Secretary of State for Population, Refugees, and 
Migration, PRM, Ellen Sauerbrey, who had recently returned from the 
region.

It was clear from our discussion that while the United States has 
been working to address this grave situation, not nearly enough is 
being done. The United States has a moral obligation to make a serious 
commitment to help Iraqi refugees and internally displaced populations 
while meeting our commitment to resettle Iraqi refugees referred by the 
UNHCR.

It is precisely for these reasons that I decided to take swift action 
and address this worsening crisis with comprehensive legislation.

Among the legislation's highlights are an authorization of $700 
million for each fiscal year


beginning in 2008 through 2010 for the relief of Iraqi refugees and 
internally displaced persons, an increase of direct accountable 
bilateral assistance and/or funding for international aid organizations 
and nongovernmental organizations working in the host countries and an 
authorization of $500 million to increase border security in Jordan.

Additionally, this legislation facilitates the resettlement of Iraqis 
employed by our government, American companies, and nongovernmental 
organizations into the United States, broadens domestic relocation 
assistance to include housing credits, cultural counseling, meetings 
with social workers, advice on how to work with the schools and 
employment systems, and requires the Department of State to create a 
program in the U.S. for English as a second language, vocational, 
computer training, employment services and some counseling for all 
Iraqi nationals immigrating to the United States under a Special 
Immigrant Visa.

Finally this legislation urges increased cooperation between the 
United States Government and the international community to address 
this crisis.

In passing this legislation, Congress can reaffirm its commitment to 
Iraqi refugees and internally displaced persons. Our attention to this 
crisis could not be more important at this time for the sake of the new 
Iraq and Middle East regional stability. I urge my colleagues to 
support this resolution and ask for its expeditious consideration.
