---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `ddf03a15bf299b2644f1631ca4b58f26`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. I thank you so very much for yielding. I think 
it is important for us to also realize that the next action that we 
will probably, no probably, we will have on Iraq, Mr. Speaker and 
Members, will be the $99.6 billion emergency supplemental to the war. 
And I think it is important that we pay very close attention to this 
vote that is coming up and what leads up to that vote.

I spoke earlier about making sure that troop readiness, that troops 
have what they need when they go. I spoke of going to get a procedure 
done. You have a medical procedure that needs to be done, the first 
thing you want to check and make sure is the doctor has what he or she 
needs to be able to complete the procedure, because you do want to get 
up from that table one day.

This is very, very important. And I think that as we continue to talk 
about this issue of Iraq, it is our responsibility; we cannot critique 
the present administration or the past majority in this House if we do 
the same thing they did and expect different results. That is just not 
going to happen. We know that those that have come before us, whatever 
authority they might have been from the executive branch, and said they 
have what they need, we have the up-armored Humvees, we have all the 
things that they need when they get there. We were told that. And, 
better yet, we still have men and women at Walter Reed and other 
veterans hospitals, military hospitals throughout this country and even 
in Germany, and I visited twice, that are without legs because they 
didn't have the up-armored Humvees that they needed.

So saying all of that, the debate is going to be: Are we going to do 
the same thing that the Republican majority did, saying that we talk a 
good game about standing up on behalf of the troops and we disagree 
with the President on certain issues as it relates to Iraq? But if we 
do what they did, which was very little, then what happened in November 
will not reach its full potential in making sure that we head in a new 
direction.

So I think it is important that we take this in a very strong way, 
and I am glad that we had 17 Republicans join us on a nonbinding 
resolution before we left here, the last big action that we took before 
we left on Presidents' break. And I encourage more of my Republican 
colleagues to be a part of this movement in the new direction. I think 
it is very, very important. I think there have been a lot of things 
that have been highlighted. I know that the whole coalition of the 
willing will soon be the coalition of one, because we are going to be 
the only country that is left. There is a lot of rhetoric going on, we 
have to be there because we have to fight them over there so we don't 
have to fight them here. I don't hear Great Britain saying that. I 
don't hear some of the other countries that have announced their 
departure and those that have left Iraq.


I am one to believe, just as a single Member, that there will be a 
U.S. presence for some time in the region. But at the levels that we 
are now, over 143,000 troops and counting, it is going to be very 
difficult for us to continue to sell to the American people that there 
is a great need to keep those kinds of levels there. And as you spoke 
earlier about the readiness issue, this is very, very important. This 
is very, very important. I mean, we wouldn't want to get the word out 
to the undesirables here in the United States of America to say that 
law enforcement here is not ready to deal with major crimes here in the 
United States of America. We definitely don't want to get the word out 
to the rest of the world that we are not prepared to defend ourselves 
in a way that we should and need to be prepared to be able to defend 
ourselves or help our allies in the future.

So I think that is important. It is something not to take lightly. A 
lot of work has to be done here. A lot of tough votes have to be taken. 
And we have to communicate with the Members and the American people to 
not let them fall behind as we go through reforming this House and 
reforming the legislative presence in this whole debate on Iraq.