# None
## `ddf5d24091c80166bb3d10582ccd1fe3`
`Mr. DODD — 29 September 2009`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, I rise in strong opposition to the amendment 
offered by my friend and colleague from Arizona that could wipe out a 
highly skilled American workforce. It would irreparably damage our 
combat readiness, deprive our troops in the field of critical resources 
and threaten our national security. Those are strong words, but that is 
what is involved if the amendment being offered by the Senator from 
Arizona is adopted.

I wish to introduce my colleagues to three workers at Pratt & Whitney 
in Middletown, CT. We see three individuals working on this engine. 
They are removing test equipment after completing testing on a 
powerful, cutting-edge engine, preparing it for delivery to the U.S. 
Air Force. The man on the left is Doug. He has been working for Pratt & 
Whitney for 24 years. He is married with three children, 8-year-old 
twins and a 4-year-old.

The man in the middle is Steve. He spent 4 years in the Air Force 
before coming to Pratt & Whitney and boasts a quarter of a century in 
aviation experience. On the right is his coworker Michael, with 15 
years of experience on the floor and 8 as a supervisor at this 
facility. If we effectively lay off these workers and the 30,000 
Americans like them in 43 States who build the C-17, we will be causing 
tremendous pain and financial hardship at a time when our communities 
can least afford it.

In my home State of Connecticut--29th in total population, but 6th in 
total aerospace employment--we just received word that Pratt & Whitney 
is going to close maintenance facilities in Cheshire, CT, and East 
Hartford, CT, costing 1,000 jobs. If this amendment prevails, my 
State's largest private employer tells me that they will stand to lose 
another 3,000 jobs. That means the loss of decades of experience and 
expertise that has allowed us to maintain not parity with the world, 
but superiority, in the aerospace industry.

Perhaps my colleagues aren't persuaded by the imminent loss of 
thousands of jobs in my state or even their own. Perhaps some might be 
tempted to threaten the livelihoods of 30,000 people at a time when we 
can ill afford it. To them I say, think about these three individuals 
are doing for our troops.

According to the Air Force, over the last 3 years in the military's 
Central Command alone, the C-17 has flown more than 100,000 airlift 
sorties, moved more than 2 million personnel, delivered nearly 300,000 
tons of cargo, and executed nearly 2,000 air drops. According to the 
Government Accountability Office, C-17s have delivered more than 2.4 
million tons of cargo to Iraq and Afghanistan alone. That is 2.4 
million tons of supplies--everything from critical gear to large 
vehicles--sustaining our troops on the battlefield.

The Government Accountability Office also notes that this aircraft 
has ''drawn praise during combat operations''--listen to this--with an 
86-percent readiness rate, compared to the 53-percent readiness rate of 
the 40-year-old C-5 fleet that shares the cargo lift mission with the 
C-17s. The C-17 is the most reliable airlift plane in our arsenal, and 
it is also the most versatile. Unlike any other aircraft we have, the 
C-17 can complete combat, humanitarian, and other transport missions 
all over the world, thanks to its unique ability to take off and land 
in difficult environments, in remote airfields, or in situations where 
runways are shortened or degraded.

The Air Force reports that the C-17 is able to take off and land on 
65 percent of the world's soils, whereas older airlift planes can only 
land on 6 percent.


This incredible versatility makes the C-17 vital to the success of 
counterinsurgency, humanitarian, and research missions the world over. 
It can operate not only in Iraq and Afghanistan, but in places such as 
Bosnia, Rwanda, Sudan, and even Antarctica.

But today I feel this versatility is taken for granted. Our 
commitments overseas, especially since 2001, have imposed far greater 
burdens on these aircraft than we had originally planned for.

The Congressional Research Service reports that the C-17 was designed 
to fly 1,000 hours per year, with an expected lifespan of 30 years. But 
as our overseas commitments have grown since 2001, the fleet has 
averaged 1,250 hours per aircraft and some have even reached 2,400 
flying hours in a single year.

GEN Arthur Lichte, the Air Force's air mobility commander, has said 
that at this rate, the C-17s may have a lifespan as short as 22 years. 
When a mission-critical aircraft is due to retire 8 years earlier than 
intended, as this one may be, we who are charged with equipping our 
troops in the field must address our procurement plans and we must do 
it now. Some of our newest C-17s are already 15 years old.

I wish to remind my colleagues that last July the Senate voted 93 to 
1 to authorize the expansion of the Army by 30,000 soldiers. I, along 
with nearly all of my colleagues, supported that increase to meet our 
growing security demands and relieve the combat burden on our already 
overstretched forces. When we took that vote, we incurred an obligation 
as well to provide those troops with the support they will need in 
order to do their jobs.

Chairman Inouye and the members of the Senate Appropriations 
Committee have demonstrated incredible foresight by acting quickly to 
prevent these future shortfalls in this very important fleet. If this 
amendment to undo their good work prevails, we are doing a disservice 
to our troops. We are also doing a great disservice to our taxpayers.

The author of this amendment has said we should kill the C-17 now and 
wait for a government study down the road to see whether we need more 
of these aircraft. Well, if we kill the C-17, we will lose our only 
wide-body assembly line in the United States. According to the 
Government Accountability Office, it will cost up to $1 billion to 
restart the line when it inevitably dawns on us that we need additional 
military cargo planes to support our troops in the field. If we hand 
these three individuals and the 30,000 of their fellow workers around 
the country pink slips in the next few days, who do we think is going 
to build those planes down the road?

By the way, if we choose to try to make up the capability by 
extending the lives of the C-5As, we would need to overhaul and repair 
seven of them at a cost of nearly $1 billion to equal the capability we 
would get from buying just one additional C-17 at a cost of $276 
million.

This amendment would hurt our workers, our troops, and our national 
security. It is a massive expenditure disguised as a short-term 
savings. It is the very definition of cutting off our nose to spite our 
face when it comes to the critical needs of our troops in the field. 
Whatever views one may have on Afghanistan or Iraq, we want to make 
sure that our troops, wherever they are, receive the support they need.

Today, when the vote occurs, I urge my colleagues to support the 
committee and reject the amendment to cut out these critical aircraft.

With that, I ask unanimous consent to be allowed to move to a matter 
other than the one I just discussed as in morning business.