---
---

# RECOGNIZING AND COMMENDING EFFORTS TO RAISE AWARENESS ABOUT AND HELP  END THE WORSENING HUMANITARIAN CRISIS AND GENOCIDE IN DARFUR, SUDAN
## `ddfda7614482a9344ad98631630c48be`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 29 October 2007`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. I thank my friend and colleague from Tennessee 
(Mr. Tanner).

Mr. Speaker, the intent of this resolution is to recognize the 
outstanding work of the school, community and faith-based advocacy 
groups who, through their moral commitment and tireless efforts and 
countless hours of volunteer service, have helped bring needed 
attention to the genocide occurring in Darfur. Their efforts reflect 
the true spirit of Americans and bring hope to those who are facing 
historic atrocities halfway around the world.

I want to particularly commend the students who are fueling this 
nationwide movement, urging action to stop genocide by educating their 
peers and holding us, their elected officials, accountable.



And hold us accountable they have. I recently met with students from 
an organization whose primary goal is to form a nationwide anti-
genocide coalition. This organization has more than 700 chapters, 
provides students with creative and effective organizing materials and 
policy and advocacy training. Recently, in my home State of Virginia, 
several outstanding students from the New School of Virginia held a 3-
day conference where they educated fellow students about the genocide 
in Darfur.

I was so moved by their sincere and energetic commitment to ending 
that genocide, I invited the students to Congress, where they were led 
by Semhar Araia and Lia Parada of my staff. These high school students 
briefed Members of Congress on their efforts to put pressure on the 
Government of Sudan to stop the genocide. Having given their peers 
numerous briefings on the situation in Darfur, these students took it 
upon themselves to ask poignant, pressing questions of our colleagues. 
Their message was clear: help us save Darfur.

Having learned that villages have been razed, women systematically 
raped and branded, men murdered, and food and water supplies destroyed, 
they are determined to make a difference, and to continue speaking up 
until their government does the right thing.

Now, we hear slogans from our President like, ''not on our watch,'' 
and we believe that he is sincere when he says that. But our society 
continues to be witness to a crisis as devastating as Rwanda. Our youth 
can't understand why it continues today, after years of knowing what 
has been going on, tens of thousands have died, hundreds of thousands 
are displaced and living in refugee camps. More than 2 million people 
have been driven from their homes.

And over the last few years, we've seen major changes in U.S. foreign 
policy with respect to the ongoing crisis in Darfur, but a far more 
aggressive response is still needed.

On July 22 of 2004, Congress declared that the atrocities unfolding 
in Darfur constituted genocide. On September 9 of that year, former 
Secretary of State Colin Powell stated that ''genocide has been 
committed in Darfur and that the Government of Sudan and the janjaweed 
bear responsibility.''

On April 18 of this year, President George Bush asserted that the 
United States has a moral obligation to help end the genocide in 
Darfur. But it still goes on.

Had it not been for the grass-roots effort to pressure the 
administration and other national governments on this humanitarian 
crisis, I doubt we would see the United Nations African Union 
peacekeepers in Darfur.

But we have got to do so much more. The mission is not complete. Just 
last month, on September 29, an estimated 1,000 members of a heavily 
armed Darfur rebel group overran a base in Haskanita, which is occupied 
by the African Union Mission. This ambush resulted in intense fighting 
that killed 10 peacekeepers and wounded many others; 50 soldiers are 
still missing. According to U.N. estimates, in the aftermath of the 
brutal attack, 15,000 civilians had to flee the area to neighboring 
towns or the wilderness.

The effort and resources put into resolving this conflict pale 
compared to what the President has requested for Iraq. Clearly, there's 
so much more that we as a Nation could be doing to end this crisis. The 
humanitarian situation is not improving. African Union peacekeeping 
forces are limited to only 7,000 troops. As evidenced by the attack on 
Haskanita, it is unlikely that their efforts alone will ensure any real 
meaningful progress. We've got to keep


pressuring the Sudanese Government and build support for a larger 
peacekeeping force. More Americans need to speak out day in, day out, 
like these students are. We cannot continue to allow the raping, the 
massacreing, the displacement of people to continue. These students are 
asking us to hear them, to act, and to bring to bear the strength of 
the nations of the world to address this conflict.

That's why I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this resolution 
that recognizes those who have selflessly devoted themselves to raising 
awareness of the crisis in Darfur.