---
---

# COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH CARE REFORM
## `de04eb1610675f076bf369aa8acc3353`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 12 February 2009`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Thank you, Mr. Murphy. As you said, we both sat on the 
Public Health Committee in Hartford, Connecticut, in the State 
legislature. You did an absolutely outstanding job for the people of 
the State. You were the guy that was there to implement SCHIP. We call 
it HUSKY in Connecticut, for obvious reasons--because we have the best 
men's and women's basketball teams in the country right now in the 
NCAA.

You also did, again, a lot of other path breaking legislation during 
your time there. It's very exciting to see you now on the Energy and 
Commerce Committee to continue that work at the national level.

I wanted to follow up actually on a couple of comments that our 
colleague from Pennsylvania brought up regarding the fact that, A, in 
the short time that President Obama has been in office, he followed 
through on a campaign promise to extend health insurance to 4 million 
more children in this country. As the three of us know, this was an 
issue that people clawed at each for 2 solid years. And then, within 2 
weeks of coming into office, we were able to accomplish that historic 
expansion and strengthen coverage for things like dental care and 
mental health care, which anybody out there talking to the pediatric 
community knows, was a real weakness in the SCHIP program that has now 
been in effect for the last 10 years.

His stimulus plan, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, 
recognizes the fact that we have lost 3 million jobs in this country 
and, unfortunately, in America, when people lose their jobs, they also 
lose their health care in many instances because we have an employment-
based system. And his proposal which creates a COBRA subsidy, providing 
65 percent of the premium costs for unemployed individuals, is really 
just a major change in the health care landscape in this country.

Like a lot of Members, I have been at unemployment offices over the 
last 3 weeks or so. Connecticut has been hard hit, like other parts of 
the country. And talking to the folks who are in the offices describing 
the individuals coming in, who in many instances have never experienced 
a layoff in their lifetime, and in many instances had very solid, upper 
middle-income salaries,


now have all these problems thrust at them.

But the number one issue that constantly comes up for people who are 
at that desk trying to contend with a blizzard of new programs that 
they have never dealt with before is, How do I keep my health insurance 
for my families? And the cost of COBRA extension is brutal. It averages 
around $700 or $800 a month. If you just do the simple math in terms of 
what an unemployment check will cover, this COBRA extension, which 
President Obama has included in the Recovery and Reinvestment Act, is 
just going to be a tremendous help for working families who are trying 
to get through this very difficult patch.

There's another issue, though, which Mr. Altmire mentioned, which is 
also in the plan, which is an investment, really an infrastructure 
investment, in health IT. About $19 billion is included in the plan. 
And Jason mentioned earlier that the VA and the military health care 
system is actually kind of ahead of the curve in terms of the civilian 
sector.

I had a chance actually to personally see that in December when I was 
over in Iraq and Afghanistan. I was at Walter Reed Hospital in 
December, visiting a young soldier from East Lyme, Connecticut, who was 
shot by a sniper in mid November. He was being treated at Walter Reed. 
Talked about the great care that he received at Landstuhl Hospital in 
Germany.

And on our way back from Iraq and Afghanistan, we stopped at 
Landstuhl Hospital and I was up talking to the nurses on the ward and 
the doctor who actually performed surgery on him. I mentioned his name. 
This was about 6 weeks after the fact. They all knew him right away.

One of the reasons why, other than the fact they're just great people 
who really care about their patients, is that they have a totally 
interoperable system of health IT within the military hospital system. 
So the doctor can pull up on a computer the treatment files of this 
soldier who's in Washington, D.C., at Walter Reed Hospital, and 
interact with his doctors, answer any questions that may come up in 
terms of his recuperation. It was remarkable.

And the question Jason asked is, Why can't we have this in the 
regular health care system in this country? Obviously, it's because we 
have a very fragmented system, and we need to overcome these issues of 
interoperability.

One of the ways it does it is to build on a system that George Bush 
started. He created the Office of National Coordinator of Health Care 
Information Technology. That was a Bush Executive Order. And what the 
recovery plan does is it basically takes that office, which is dealing 
with these issues of interoperability, and pump new funds into the 
program and just moving this country forward much quicker than it 
otherwise might have done under the prior administration's budget.


Well, there's an urban legend already out there claiming--and it's in 
the blogs and it's on some of the cable TV shows--that somehow this 
National Coordinator of Health Care Information is creating a 
nationalized socialized system of health care and it's going to mandate 
treatments that doctors and hospitals are going to have to administer. 
Nothing could be further from the truth.

This office, which was created by George W. Bush, is strictly an IT 
office that is dealing, again, with implementation of computer 
technology in this system which, again, as Congressman Altmire said, 
needs a lot of work because it's a very fragmented system, particularly 
when you're trying to bring in doctors and health care providers who 
are outside of the hospital network into the system of health care 
information technologies.

So, for anybody out there listening who has heard these ridiculous 
claims that somehow this bill is going to create a one-size-fits-all 
system of health care, nothing could be further from the truth. This 
bill is about trying to, again, implement what George Bush started, and 
which makes common sense for anybody. All the stakeholders and health 
care systems agree that health care IT, making the system more 
efficient, coordinating care by just sharing information in a safe and 
secure manner, is a way to really move the ball forward in this country 
towards a system of universal access and high-quality care.

So, if people are hearing those rumors--and I have had some seniors 
call the office saying they don't like the idea of this--the fact of 
the matter is that this is a program which the military uses, which the 
VA uses, which is going to be good for care in terms of eliminating 
errors in the system because of just the fact that bad information is 
being shared by different providers.

It does nothing in terms of changing the doctor-patient relationship, 
the patient-hospital relationship. The government is not getting 
involved in the decision-making of how your health care is going to be 
decided or administered.

Holding this forum on the night before the vote, Mr. Murphy, I think 
is a great opportunity to clarify, again, some of the really good steps 
forward that President Obama is asking the Congress to vote for.

Like yourself, I know we believe that, as folks who have worked on 
this issue for an awful long time, that this is a real opportunity in a 
very difficult time of our country to move forward for all Americans.

So, with that, I will be happy to yield back to you.