---
---

# FRESHMEN REPUBLICAN HOUR
## `de108fcd471134431062c3f72d69f12f`
`Mr. LANCE — 15 December 2009`

---


Mr. LANCE. Thank you, Congresswoman Lummis.

Madam Speaker, Congresswoman Lummis has pointed out what we are going 
to face over the course of this decade. And we have to pay our interest 
payments first before we feed any hungry children, before we engage in 
housing for those who need housing and jobs for those who need jobs. 
Before we even fund the military we have


to fund our debt. It crowds out other needed spending. It also makes it 
much more difficult for there to be borrowing in the private sector, 
raising interest rates in the private sector to get this economy moving 
again.

It is also ultimately a matter of national security, because who is 
purchasing our debt? It is being purchased by foreign nations, by 
China, by Saudi Arabia and by other nations across the globe. And 
ultimately, he who pays the piper calls the tune. And this is a matter 
of national security. And undoubtedly the American people will 
recognize now what Congress has not yet recognized, and that is we have 
to get our Federal spending under control.

No one in Congress thinks that we can balance the budget this year. 
However, we need a glide path toward a balanced budget. And instead, we 
have a rocket in the other direction with ever-rising levels of annual 
deficits.

The Congressional Budget Office predicts that by the end of this next 
decade, our total debt may approach $20 trillion. That is simply 
unacceptable. It places an undue burden on the next generation. For the 
first time in the history of this country, there is an open question 
whether the next generation will have a higher quality of life than 
this generation. The promise of America has always been that each 
generation works as hard as possible to make sure that our children 
will have a higher quality of life. Whether or not we will have a 
second American Century here in the 21st century the way the 20th 
century was an American Century is now in question based upon this 
fundamental issue that confronts all of us in Congress, and that is the 
issue of out-of-control Federal spending and a massive debt that is 
increasing enormously.

Let me state, Madam Speaker, that in the 1990s, with a Democratic 
President, President Clinton, and a Republican Congress, we did a 
better job. In 1997, the annual deficit that year was $21 billion. The 
next year, there was a surplus of $69 billion, the next year a surplus 
of $125 billion, the next year a surplus of $236 billion, that's in 
year 2000, the last year of the Clinton Presidency, and in the first 
year of the Presidency of George W. Bush, a surplus of $128 billion.

I want to give credit to President Clinton. I also want to give 
credit to the Republican Congress then in power. And I think that it is 
a responsibility of the Presidency and the Congress working together. 
In the 8 years of the Bush Presidency, 6 years with Republican control 
of the House and Senate, there was a combined debt in those 8 years, 
let me repeat, of $2 trillion, and in this last year, the fiscal year 
that ended on September 30, we had in that 1 year a deficit of over 
$1.5 trillion. And this year, we're going to have that amount yet 
again. I implore the White House to get serious on this issue of annual 
Federal deficits and the overall Federal debt.

We, the Republican freshmen, want to do our part. We came here to 
reform the system. We want to reform the system in a bipartisan way. 
And Congresswoman Lummis is taking the lead for the freshman class on 
this, in my judgment, the most important issue confronting the American 
Nation, as important as reforming the health care system, as important 
as the burden that we share with others around the world, including the 
brave young men and women who fight in Afghanistan and Iraq. Because 
this, the debt issue, is a matter of national security as well as a 
matter of economic prosperity.

I yield back to the congresswoman.