# None
## `de1b21894b7f323b90d0de236d2af027`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ — 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this specific 
legislation.

Let me just indicate that the language that is on there regarding 
Project 112 efforts, those are studies that were supposedly conducted 
during the 1960s and 1970s on our own soldiers. There was a variety of 
studies that were conducted where, basically, we used nerve gas and 
other things with our own soldiers to see how they would react, and we 
have prioritized in terms of trying to provide the services and health 
care needs of these soldiers and to ID them. This allows extension of 
that language that is needed for us to continue to do the right thing 
when it comes to our veterans now that suffered under those studies.

Let me also say that this is a comprehensive piece of legislation 
that begins to fund a variety of different programs throughout the 
country, and including, Mr. Speaker, in your beloved area of Puerto 
Rico, which you know a large number of soldiers that served our country 
reside in and will have an opportunity to get extended health care 
needs there through the clinics.

In addition, I am proud to announce that we have four major 
polytrauma centers in this country, and the fifth one is located in San 
Antonio. This allows the opportunity for funding of that particular 
polytrauma center that will allow services to be extended to those 
soldiers coming both from Afghanistan and Iraq that are seriously 
injured.

So, once again, I want to take this opportunity to thank the 
leadership for their efforts, and I thank Mr. Filner for the dedicated 
work he has providing these resources to our veterans throughout the 
country.