# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `de1e743fa5243be12b66d769c5de7232`
`Mr. POE — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. POE. Madam Chairman, I am proud to introduce this Amendment with 
Congresswoman Louise McIntosh Slaughter.

Nearly 3 years ago, a distraught father contacted my office asking 
for help for his daughter, Jamie Leigh Jones. Jamie was a 20 year old, 
KBR contractor in Iraq. After only 4 days in the Green Zone, Jamie was 
drugged and gang-raped by her coworkers. When she woke up in the 
morning, she was naked, bruised, and bleeding. She saw 1 of her 
coworkers beside her and he confirmed that they had unprotected sex. 
She immediately contacted her supervisors and was taken to an Army 
hospital, where an Army doctor performed a rape kit. Rape kits are 
essential in future prosecutions because they preserve forensic 
evidence. The Army doctor took photographs of Jamie and informed Jamie 
that she was raped by multiple men. She has had reconstructive surgery.



What happened next is appalling. Jamie was locked in a guarded 
shipping container for 24 hours. Her supervisors told her this was for 
her safety, but she was not provided food or water and she was not 
allowed to contact anyone. Jamie finally convinced a sympathetic guard 
to let her use his cell phone and Jamie called her dad for help.

After speaking with Jamie's father, my staff and I contacted the 
State Department and within 2 days, 2 agents from the State Department 
had rescued Jamie.

Since Jamie's return in America, she has not had justice. Although a 
grand jury was finally convened, 2/1/2/ years later, there is still no 
indictment. We learned that Jamie's important rape kit was turned over 
to her employer, KBR, instead of to the proper law enforcement 
personnel. KBR then lost and recovered the rape kit, but it is 
incomplete. KBR has stonewalled cooperation with authorities on the 
investigation regarding what occurred to this and other victims in 
Iraq.

This Amendment is very straight forward. It requires defense 
contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan to report violent crimes committed 
against or by their contracted employees to the Department of Defense 
and that the information must be made public. It also requires defense 
contractors to provide for victims with medical and psychological 
assistance.

This Amendment is one step in the right direction for bringing 
justice to victims. And that's just the way it is.