---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IRAQ
## `de2bdd53bd863ab34b477947f0fce954`
`Mr. WARNER — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. That resolution has been distorted and misunderstood in 
the debate thus far. That is one of the reasons I am so anxious to 
proceed with this debate. I want to make clear, because it was 
mentioned that perhaps these resolutions were brought along for 
political cover, that on that issue each Senator has to speak for 
themselves, but I assure my colleagues that this Senator from Virginia 
has moved forward with my thoughts and my ideas in the best interest of 
the country and the best interest of the men and women of the United 
States military, and not for any political cover. Nor will I, in any 
way, impugn the motives of Senators whose opinions differ from mine.

This being my 29th year in the Senate, I have never, to my knowledge, 
ever intentionally, and I don't think indirectly, impugned the motive 
of any Senator for the position he or she has taken on a matter. We are 
all patriots. We are equal patriots. We all support the men and women 
of the Armed Forces. Let that be understood.


I firmly believe, as we are approaching this debate, that it is 
imperative that the Senate work its will, and work its will in the 
open, on this issue which is so critical at this point in time in our 
many years of involvement in the Iraq situation.

I solidly support the President in his view that we cannot accept 
failure in getting a government, whether it is this one or an ensuing 
government, in Iraq up and running and functioning such that it can 
seize the full range of sovereignty in this nation, and not let this 
nation implode, causing absolute disaster throughout the region. 
Indeed, certainly as it relates to energy and other issues, it could 
impact severely on the rest of the world, not only in energy but in a 
signal that the terrorists have won. We cannot let that happen. So 
let's let the Senate work its will, and I think our colleagues here, 
the distinguished leaders, will work out a procedure by which we will 
do that. The comment was made, and understandably, that this is a 
nonbinding resolution. Nonbinding. Well, we have them in the history of 
the Senate. At this time, this Senator is not voting for any cutoff of 
funds. That is our one constitutional lever we can pull. As a matter of 
fact, in our resolution--I refer to our resolution as the one that I, 
together with Senator Ben Nelson and Senator Susan Collins of Maine 
have put together--we specifically have included an iteration of the 
concept advanced by our distinguished colleague Senator Gregg, which 
may come before the Senate. We solidly support that concept of no 
cutoff of funds.

What do we do short of that? Well, we have a debate. Somehow you have 
to have some focal point, something written down, some document in 
writing as to the ability of this institution, the Senate, to reach a 
consensus, and a bipartisan consensus, on how best we go


forward with a new strategy in Iraq. That has been my motivation from 
the very beginning, to put this institution on record on a bipartisan 
basis. I am not talking about one or two Senators on that side joining 
all the Senators on this side or vice versa, no, a truly on its face 
bipartisan consensus, albeit a resolution without any legal force and 
effect.

It is important that the people of this country give their support to 
the men and women in uniform and to a strategy which they hope will 
succeed in our goal of not letting Iraq implode and fall into greater 
disaster than it is experiencing today. So how do they go about it? The 
President, in his speech on January 10, explicitly said those who have 
other ideas, generally speaking, or concepts, bring them forward. That 
is what we have done. We have exercised what the President has given 
us, the option to come forward.

To quote the President: ''If Members,'' referring to Congress, ''have 
improvements that can be made, we will make them,'' he said. ''If 
circumstances change, we will adjust, showing flexibility,'' said the 
President.

Using that as our chart, we then proceeded as a group to figure out 
how best to comment on the President's strategy. We did say, and I 
repeat it, that the Senate disagrees with the plan to augment our 
forces by 21,500 and urge the President, instead, to consider all 
options and alternatives for achieving the strategic goals set forth 
below. Each Senator has to interpret that phrase, that sentence, as he 
or she so desires. I repeat that. Each Senator has the right to look at 
that and decide, one, do you disagree in any way with what the 
President is doing and the force of 21,500.

I believe we can accomplish the goals this country has set out to 
accomplish in Iraq, goals that were enumerated by the Baker-Hamilton 
commission, in a manner that we do not need a full force of 21,500. 
Indeed, that force, we now learn, could be somewhat higher than that 
number if you are going to have the essential support troops joined. 
Unfortunately, there was no reference to that made in the President's 
speech, and right now it is a matter of debate and contention.

I don't know what the additional figure is, but in my judgment, I say 
most respectfully that we do not in this resolution in any way 
challenge or contravene the constitutional provision that you are 
Commander in Chief and that you can deploy troops which, in your best 
judgment, are for the security of this Nation and the welfare of the 
troops. We don't challenge that. We simply accept your offer, we have 
expressed it, so we support it.

I support, for example, additional troops if they are necessary over 
and above the current level for operations in Al Anbar. On my last trip 
to that region, it was clear that the marines had enough troops to do 
certain portions of their mission, but it was also clear that 
additional forces were needed. Perhaps they could come from within the 
current force structure currently in Iraq. But perhaps you need--to use 
the word ''surge''--some modest surge to meet the requirements for Al-
Anbar to be brought under a higher level of security.


Nothing in this resolution prohibits the President from having some 
portion of that surge force of 21,500 utilized to do those things which 
are essential--further training of the Iraqi forces, further embedding, 
enlarging the number of troops to be embedded with the Iraqi forces. 
Those are the sorts of things this Senator supports. Within the 
framework of this resolution, I can take those stands.

But I turn now to the principal thing we have in this resolution, and 
that is one of the main things that I believe has to have greater 
emphasis. It is as follows. We state it very clearly in a provision in 
our resolution:




 The United States military operations should, as much as 


 possible, be confined to these goals, which were enumerated 


 by the Baker-Hamilton Commission.


I go back and I read the goals here, all set forth on page 6 of the 
resolution. The military part of this strategy should: focus on 
maintaining the territorial integrity of Iraq, denying international 
terrorists a safe haven, conducting counterterrorism operations, 
promoting regional stability, supporting Iraqi efforts to bring greater 
security to Baghdad, and training and equipping Iraqi forces to take 
full responsibility for their own security.

Therein is the principal motivation.