---
---

# H1N1 INFLUENZA
## `de2c6c227212f07a86b8eefb69347dc3`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia — 5 May 2009`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Madam Speaker, thank you for the opportunity 
to address my colleagues for the best part of the next hour.

What we are going to do, Madam Speaker, is talk about this current 
virus that is going around that we are now referring to as type A H1N1 
influenza. I think most people would understand better if we said swine 
flu. Now I understand why we are trying to get away from calling it 
swine flu, and obviously in States across the country where the pork 
industry is hugely important to the economy, they don't want this 
fear--unwarranted fear, really--of consuming pork products that are 
completely safe. Obviously, you have known from almost childhood that 
pork should be well cooked to a temperature of 160 degrees and it's 
perfectly safe.



But that is the reason why I am going to stand here tonight and 
probably not use the term ''swine flu'' very much, because I don't want 
to create an unnecessary fear of a very, very safe product that could 
be harmful to States across this country and to other countries as 
well. We are in a tough time economically on a global scale, and we 
don't want to make those matters worse by creating a false sense of 
concern.

I will be joined, Madam Speaker, this evening by a colleague or two--
or three or four maybe--who are part of the GOP Doctors Caucus. We 
formed this caucus at the beginning of this Congress, the 111th, as we 
grew our numbers of health care providers in their previous life who 
now have morphed into Members of this great body of the House of 
Representatives. We have that really on both sides of the aisle, but 
this is a Republican hour, Madam Speaker, and I will be joined by other 
Republicans. I would welcome, if any of my Democratic friends, health 
care providers, are sitting in their offices watching us on television 
on C-SPAN, if they want to come over and join us and weigh in on this, 
I would be glad to yield them time.

There is no partisanship involved here. The purpose is to try to 
inform our colleagues, all 435 in the House, so that they can inform 
their constituents. And each one, as you know, Madam Speaker, 
represents almost 700,000 people in their respective districts. And we 
are all getting calls. I mean, people are scared.

I would say that some fear is warranted, but a pandemic of panic is 
not warranted. And so the more information that we, as Members of 
Congress, can give to our constituents and that our staff can give when 
they call the office, either here in Washington or in our district 
offices, then we get to keep this thing in its proper perspective. And 
that is my purpose tonight, and that is the purpose of my colleagues 
that will be joining me later in the hour to talk about this issue and 
to make sure that people have enough information that they can take 
care of themselves and their children, or maybe their elderly parents, 
or possibly someone in the family whose immune system is compromised so 
that they know what to do, they know what the risks are, they know what 
their government is doing.

And, Madam Speaker, I want to commend and compliment the Federal 
Government and our respective State health departments, the Centers for 
Disease Control in my great State of Georgia, which, as you know, is an 
integral part of the Department of Health and Human Services and is 
really the lead agency, if you will, in regard to infectious disease, 
communicable disease, epidemiology. And Interim Director Dr. Besser and 
previously the Director of CDC, Dr. Julie Gerberding, these are the 
kinds of people, both with experience in infectious disease--in fact, 
Dr. Gerberding, internal medicine specialist, subspecialty being 
infectious disease. It is comforting to know that these kinds of 
professionals are standing guard, they are watching our back.

We had a hearing last week when, both Republicans and Democrats, the 
new Secretary, the day after she was confirmed, Kathleen Sebelius, 
former Governor of Kansas and now Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, former Governor of Arizona, Janet Napolitano, now Secretary 
of Department of Homeland Security, and Admiral Schuchat from the CDC, 
all spoke to us and told Members of Congress exactly what the plan was 
and what was being done and what is currently being done in regard to 
this impending pandemic. We are pleased, a week later, to find out that 
things are much better today on, what is it, the 5th of May, than they 
were a week ago or 2 weeks ago. And it looks like we are not, Madam 
Speaker, going to have a pandemic of this potentially very virulent 
virus that has occurred in our past history.

We will talk a little bit maybe about what happened in 1918, when 50 
million people across the world died from influenza. Of course that was 
a different time. It probably started in the United States in very 
confined quarters as men were training to be rushed into the battle of 
the great war, World War I, and in very close contact. But of course 
back then there were no vaccinations against any kind of flu, seasonal 
flu, avian flu, this current type, H1N1 influenza virus, no vaccine, 
and more importantly, Madam Speaker, no antibiotics. It was not until 
1941, I think, or thereabouts, that penicillin was discovered.

So you really had no effective way of treating complications, and of 
course the complications that would lead to death. And let's say even 
the 35,000 deaths that occur today following just regular seasonal flu, 
complications from seasonal flu, they are respiratory; it's pneumonia, 
it's sepsis. And back in 1918 I don't think there were any respirators 
that I'm aware of. I don't think that's true. My colleague from 
Georgia, Dr. Paul Broun, a family practitioner, has joined me. And when 
I yield time to him, we can talk about that in a colloquy about what 
was available.

But I think we could compare the current situation, this 2009 concern 
over this influenza, to 1976, when a very similar virus struck--again, 
originated in a military facility; I think it was Fort Dix. There was, 
I think, at least one death, and five soldiers came down with this type 
A influenza, H1N1, very similar--I said I wasn't going to say swine 
flu, but very similar to what we are looking at today.

Back then, a vaccine was developed very specifically, and we started 
a big vaccine program. I think 50 million people in 1976 during the 
Ford administration were vaccinated against this virus. In retrospect, 
it may have not been necessary. And finally that program of vaccinating 
everybody was canceled because of complications. We had more 
complications really from the vaccine than we did from the flu. And I 
say that not to suggest today that we shouldn't prepare ourselves--and 
again, I compliment the respective Secretaries in the CDC and the 
States that are ready. And they are ready, and people should be very 
comforted by that. But we need to question how much money we spend. Is 
it appropriate to, let's say, spend $2 billion in the upcoming 
emergency supplemental that is primarily for the ongoing cost of trying 
to win in Iraq and Afghanistan, a very important spending that is 
probably going to end up being $90-plus billion in this emergency 
supplemental? But whether or not we need to spend $2 billion 
specifically in this emergency supplemental on developing a vaccine and 
vaccinating 50 million people like we did back in 1976, there is some 
question in my mind, as a physician who practiced for 30 years, 
although not infectious disease, but I do have some concerns that we 
don't overreact and that we make sure that we have a measured response.

The President has an obligation to do that. And I can understand that 
he doesn't want to take this too lightly.


I'm sure he remembers Katrina just as we all do. I will use the 
expression, he doesn't want to get ''Katrina'ed'' over this issue by 
not responding appropriately. And I do understand, and I think we all 
understand what I'm talking about when I say that. But we will spend 
the best part of an hour talking about this issue.

I have got just a very few posters that I want to share with my 
colleagues, Madam Speaker, before yielding to Dr. Broun, the great 
physician Member from Athens, Georgia.

This first slide is referencing that outbreak that occurred back in 
1976. And again, it was very similar. The serotype, the specificity of 
the virus then was very similar to this 2009 outbreak. Five soldiers at 
Fort Dix, New Jersey, I believe--contracted H1N1 influenza and one 
soldier died. Tests on many more--of course I'm sure everybody at the 
base was tested for this virus, and it confirmed that 500 actually were 
infected, but most of them really showed no noticeable symptoms. I 
mean, they may have had a sore throat, they may have had what we call 
rhinorrhea--technical name for runny nose, sneezing and body aches and 
things like that--but they really showed no severe symptoms. And over 
the following months, no other Americans died from that virus. The loss 
of one life, of course, is one life too many, especially for the family 
of that individual, but clearly things kind of resolved themselves in 
pretty quick fashion. And as I say, no other Americans died from the 
virus.

But the inoculation that we did develop--and I think I may have this 
included on the slide, Madam Speaker--but we spent $135 million 
developing a vaccine. That was back in 1976, 1977, what, almost 40 
years ago. And we have just appropriated or are on the verge of 
appropriating $2 billion to our response to this flu. And it may be 
that a lot of that expense will be developing a vaccine. And it is 
possible, if we do that, develop a vaccine in mass quantities, that we 
will never use it. Because remember in this experience, where the 
complications from the vaccine--and I want to talk about that just 
briefly--might end up being worse than the disease itself.

So as I say, in 1976, this $135 million--and that was a lot of money 
back then--developing this vaccine and inoculating 50 million people, 
the vaccinations began on October 1, 1976, and by December 16--so we're 
talking, what, 2/1/2/ months later--the Federal Government decided we 
needed to suspend this program because there were increasing reports, 
Madam Speaker, of side effects. And I am not talking about just a 
little swelling or rash or itch at the injection, the vaccination site. 
I'm talking about some serious things. In fact, I want to talk about 
one thing in particular.

But there were some deaths attributed to the vaccine; 50 million 
people received the vaccine. And one of the side effects was a very 
serious condition, Madam Speaker, called Guillain-Barre syndrome. I 
don't know who Guillain was and I don't know who Barre was, but maybe 
Dr. Broun will tell us about that. But it was named after some very--
not American physicians. But this Guillain-Barre syndrome is a 
paralysis that occurs, and it literally causes paralysis from the neck 
down. And these people couldn't survive back in 1918, certainly, but 
even today without the aid of a respirator.

The good news is this condition usually goes away and they recover 
full function, but it can take as long as a year. And some of these 
patients spend most of that year in a hospital, away from their 
families, away from their jobs, and many months on a respirator so they 
can even breathe.

So this was a very, very serious complication, Madam Speaker, from 
these vaccinations that were developed back in 1976 to treat this very 
similar virus that we are facing today.



So what happened is pretty quickly the vaccination program was 
suspended. And then you have to say, well, was that $135 million well 
spent? I think maybe in retrospect, but you have to be careful about 
saying, well, you know, don't do this or don't do that, that it looks 
like this is not going to be a very serious flu, that it's not going to 
be even, Madam Speaker, as serious as seasonal flu, and there's just 
going to be a few people sick in a few States and maybe other countries 
as well, but it's not going to be a pandemic. And maybe if we have the 
money available to produce a vaccine in mass quantities, the decision 
very well could be not to do that, and then we will be able to return 
some of that money, maybe most of that money, to the taxpayer. Maybe 
we'll be able to spend it on something that's equally as important or 
maybe even more important. But that's a subject for debate, and I 
realize that you have to be very careful about saying that we don't 
need to do anything because clearly we do, and I think we are doing a 
lot.

At this point I want to yield to my colleague from Georgia, who 
represents Athens and my home of Augusta, Georgia, and he does it very 
well, and that's my colleague and fellow physician, Dr. Paul Broun.