---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `de3346dd2aa9ea052fad42c7dd6d822e`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, the proponents of this bill are fond of citing 
historical examples as they declare the futility of combat operations 
in Iraq. The Congressional Record is full of stories describing the 
failed British invasion of Gallipoli or the far more popular 
comparisons to the American experience in Vietnam.

Another more prescient historical comparison, however, was made by 
the British author George Orwell. Contemplating the defeatist rhetoric 
of the English intelligentsia during the German offensive against 
Britain in World War II, he remarked, ''The quickest way of ending a 
war is to lose it. And if one finds the prospect of a long war 
intolerable, it is natural to disbelieve in the possibility of 
victory.'' Those in favor of the bill presented on the floor today, Mr. 
Speaker, do not believe in the possibility of victory, despite the 
protests of the soldiers and Marines returning from the battlefield 
saying otherwise.

By advocating a rapid withdrawal, they endorse the quickest way of 
ending the war, by losing it. It has been less than a month since the 
full force of troops requested by military commanders arrived in Iraq, 
but already some have declared the operation to be a failure. General 
Petraeus arrived in Baghdad in February with a new strategy designed to 
reinforce the Iraqi security forces confronting al Qaeda, terrorists 
and Iranian-supplied insurgents. Rather than giving him the opportunity 
to fully implement his surge strategy, opponents in Congress 
immediately sought to undermine his credibility and his ability to 
command.

Mr. Speaker, our troops serving in Iraq don't need 435 armchair 
generals dictating the tactical movements of troops, as this 
legislation would surely do. They have true commanders whose 
professional military skills have been honed by decades of military 
service. They need us to renew our commitment to them and their 
commanders. And more importantly, they need us to trust their 
commanders' decisions.

General Petraeus said in a letter to his troops, ''Success will 
require discipline, fortitude and initiative, qualities that you have 
in abundance.'' The question before us today, Mr. Speaker, is, do we 
have those qualities?