# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `de3458d24add0342ce4991820e710e82`
`Mr. KERRY — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleague Senator 
Hagel, the Senator from Nebraska, to introduce the Military Reservist 
and Veteran Small Business Reauthorization Act of 2007. There are 
currently 25 million veterans in America, including over one million 
who have left military service since September 11, 2001. As the 
conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan continue, the number of veterans, 
including service disabled veterans, will increase and reservists will 
continue to carry more of the burden than ever before. As veterans and 
reservists reenter civilian life, the economic benefits and 
opportunities provided by the Federal Government will become even more 
critical, particularly in the field of entrepreneurship and business 
ownership. As the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business 
and Entrepreneurship, I am serious about addressing the problems 
affecting veterans and reservists who wish or are already engaged in 
small business and this bill is another step forward in doing so.

As veterans, Senator Hagel and I believe that the government has an 
obligation to help deployed reservists avoid economic hardship because 
of their service and to help veterans, particularly the service-
disabled, return to civilian life when they retire. There are more 
veterans returning each day because of the war on terror--800,000 
veterans were discharged between 2002 and 2005--and ensuring that these 
individuals have a secure financial future is not just a matter of 
fairness but of national security. The treatment of our troops affects 
the Nation's ability to recruit and retain the best and brightest. 
Veterans have told me that they feel that they are being forgotten and 
that the government is simply not living up to its past promises of 
helping veteran entrepreneurs succeed. This bill is one step in 
ensuring that the government is doing all it can to help those who have 
served and sacrificed on our behalf.

The Military Reservist and Veteran Small Business Reauthorization Act 
of 2007 reauthorizes the veteran programs in the Small Business 
Administration. Specifically, this legislation increases the funding 
authorization for the Office of Veteran Business Development from $2 
million today to $2.5 million in three years. In light of the large 
numbers of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan and increased 
responsibilities placed on this office by Executive Order 13360, it is 
high time that the Office of Veteran Business Development receive the 
funding levels that it needs.

In addition, this bill permanently extends the SBA Advisory Committee 
on Veterans Business Affairs. The committee was created to serve as an 
independent source of advice and policy recommendations to the SBA, the 
Congress, and the President. The veteran small business owners who 
serve on this committee provide a unique perspective which is sorely 
needed at this challenging time. Unfortunately, continuing uncertainty 
about the Committee's future has, at times, distracted the committee 
from focusing on its core function. Therefore, I have called for its 
permanent extension. It is clear to me that more needs to be done to 
address the issues facing veterans and reservists, and the role this 
committee plays will continue to be important.

Additionally, I have taken a number of steps to better serve the 
reservists who are serving their country abroad while their businesses 
are suffering at home. Over the past decade, the Department of Defense 
has increased its reliance on the National Guard and reserves. This has 
intensified since September 11 and increased deployments are expected 
to continue. The effect of this increase on reservists and small 
businesses continues to remain of concern. A 2003 GAO report indicated 
that 41 percent of reservists lost income when mobilized. This had a 
higher effect on self-employed reservists, 55 percent of whom lost 
income.

In 1999, I created the Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster 
Loan (MREIDL) program to provide loans to small businesses that incur 
economic injury as a result of an essential employee being called to 
active duty. However, since 2002, fewer than 300 of these loans have 
been approved by the SBA, despite record numbers of reservists being 
called to active duty. It is clear that changes need to be made, so 
that reservists are informed about the availability of the MREIDL 
program and that the program better meets their needs.

At a hearing of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship 
on January 31st, the first hearing we held in this Congress, we heard 
suggestions for a number of changes which would improve the Military 
Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan program, and I have included 
those changes in this bill. They include increasing the application 
deadline for such a loan from 90 days to one year following the date of 
discharge; creating a pre-deployment loan approval process; and 
improved outreach and technical assistance.

This bill also creates a non-collaterized loan program. Reservist 
families have already sacrificed enough when a family member goes away 
to serve their country and when their business is harmed as a result. 
This loan program would allow reservist dependent businesses to access 
the capital they need to stay afloat without having to sacrifice beyond 
the service of the key employees. In order to give reservists time to 
repay the loans, the non-collaterized loan created in this bill would 
not accumulate interest or require payments for one year or until after 
the deployment ends, whichever is longer.

In addition, because loans aren't the answer for every business--
additional debt could permanently cripple some businesses--I have also 
included a grant program for reservists. This program would allow up to 
$25,000 in grants for small businesses that can show economic injury 
because of deployment and prove that they have a viable business plan 
for the next three years. A grant program would help small businesses 
that cannot afford to take on a military reservist economic injury 
disaster loan or that were denied such a loan, but still are viable 
businesses and need assistance.

While addressing the funding needs of reservists is essential, I also 
want to make sure that reservists receive the technical and management 
assistance they need to succeed. For that reason, this bill also 
includes the establishment of the Reservists Enterprise Transition and 
Sustainability Task Force. This grant program would allow Small 
Business Development Centers, Women's Business Centers and veteran 
centers to compete for grants to create programs that help small 
businesses prepare for and cope with the mobilization of reservist-
employees and owners.

Veterans possess great technical skills and valuable leadership 
experience, but they require financial resources to turn that potential 
into a viable enterprise. A recent report by the Small Business 
Administration stated that 22 percent of veterans plan to start or are 
starting a business when they leave the military. For service-disabled 
veterans, this number rises to 28 percent. So the legislation I 
introduce today will create a new program, administered by the Small 
Business


Administration, to provide very-low-interest loans, up to $100,000, to 
help veterans start new small businesses.

Lastly, this bill calls for two reports from the Government 
Accountability Office. One report will look at the needs of service-
disabled veterans who are interested in becoming entrepreneurs. As a 
result of the war on terror and improved medicine, we are seeing more 
service-disabled veterans than we have seen in decades. For some 
service-disabled veterans, entrepreneurship is the best or only way of 
achieving economic independence. Therefore, it is essential that we 
understand and take steps to address the needs of the service-disabled 
veteran entrepreneur or small business owner.

I am also calling for a study to investigate allegations that the 
changes the Department of Defense has made in regard to the use of 
reservists is harming the ability of reservists to find jobs and the 
ability of small business owners to continue hiring reservists. At the 
Committee's hearing on veteran small business issues, witnesses 
testified about reservists being turned down or not considered for jobs 
because they are reservists. I have heard reservists talk about being 
pressured to leave the reserves if they would like to continue to 
advance at work. I have also heard the concerns of small business 
owners who want to support servicemembers; however, they cannot do so 
if it means the survival of their business. Understanding more about 
this issue is important and essential to making sure that policymakers 
can continue to support citizen soldiers and the small businesses that 
employ them across the Nation.

One of the issues I am not addressing in my legislation today is 
Federal procurement. I heard clearly the concerns from veterans that 
they are not being treated fairly when it comes to selling goods and 
services to the Federal Government, and I am committed to making 
changes. However, to make real changes, changes that can pass the 
Senate and the House and become law, these changes must be part of a 
bigger package. Legislation that addresses not just the concerns of 
service-disabled veteran small business owners, but the concerns of all 
small business owners who want their fair share of Federal contracts. I 
am committed to taking the difficult steps necessary to address these 
issues and will do so.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.