---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `de392f05346e5e67520ec4b553dc8b87`
`Mr. WEBB — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, there is a lot of emotion in the Congress 
today, as there is in the country, on this issue. There is a lot of 
rhetoric flying back and forth. Some of it is inaccurate. The first 
thing we need to say is that this is not an issue of the Congress 
denying anything to the people of the Armed Forces. We are exercising 
our constitutional power to appropriate. We are sending the President a 
$100 billion check. If he chooses not to cash that check, it is up to 
him to come up with the reasons why, not us.

There is also a lot of rhetoric going around over the past couple of 
days about defeatism and surrender and accusations of betraying the 
troops. We need to calm down a bit. There is no one in this Congress 
who wants anything more than to support those people who have been put 
into harm's way. I believe people should be very careful on this floor 
to discuss political motivations of our military which reflect very 
closely the political views of the country at large. Poll after poll 
shows that.

In respect to accusations about defeatism and surrender, the question 
becomes: Defeat by whom and surrender to whom? We won this war 4 years 
ago. The question is, When do we end the occupation? Iraq has been in 
turmoil for thousands of years. It will be in turmoil of one kind or 
another long after we leave. The U.S. military is not going to change 
the societal makeup of Iraq. The Maliki government is not going to 
bring peace among Iraq's competing factions without the strong, over 
diplomatic cooperation of other countries in the region. Despite the 
rhetoric to the contrary, these other countries, all of them, do have 
an incentive in seeing a stable Iraq.

This administration claims that our deciding to withdraw from the 
internal problems of Iraq will embolden the enemy. Then the question 
becomes: Just which enemy? Do they mean the enemy that attacked us on 
9/11? We all know that was Osama bin Laden. He not only was not in 
Iraq, but he was opposed to the continuation of Saddam Hussein's regime 
because it was a secular government.

Do they mean Saddam Hussein, whose ouster was their justification for 
beginning this war? Do they mean the remnants of the old regime, which 
was their catch phrase when the occupation began? Do they mean al-
Qaida? Let's remember, there were no al-Qaida operations in Iraq before 
we invaded, and there will be very little motivation for al-Qaida to 
continue in Iraq once we have left. Not only that, but the Iraqis 
themselves are quite capable of standing up to al-Qaida without our 
help. They do not want al-Qaida in Iraq. That is why they are 
cooperating with our forces in Anbar Province right now. And they kept 
al-Qaida out of Iraq before we got there. Or do they mean what this 
administration continually calls the insurgency, as if there were a 
monolithic group of defeatable guerrilla forces? We keep hearing about 
this insurgency. Well, which one? The Sunnis? The Shia? Ask yourselves 
again, against whom are the insurgents operating? Some are operating 
against us. Why? Because we are there and they want us to leave, as a 
vast majority of the Iraqis say in poll after poll. Some are operating 
against other ethnic factions in Iraq. But to what extent is that the 
responsibility of the United States military, to try to end ethnic 
rivalries that go back hundreds of years? Or perhaps, as defined by 
this administration, we are talking about the factions within the 
factions that are busily trying to kill each other, just as the 
factions in Lebanon were trying to kill each other more than 20 years 
ago, when we put the marines in the middle of that violence.

Some say our withdrawal from Iraq would create chaos in the region. I 
have long advocated a withdrawal that should be accomplished under the 
umbrella of a strong diplomatic effort that involves regional 
cooperation. But I must regrettably say, for those of us who warned 
against invading Iraq and decapitating that existing Government, the 
chaos the administration is now predicting is exactly the chaos their 
invasion has brought us in the first place--instability in the region, 
a loss of American prestige, a rise in the influence of Iran, an 
increase in terrorist activity.