# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `de40dd4e83b24968db7c1e60d2d28ad6`
`Mr. HALL of Texas — 29 July 2009`

---


Mr. HALL of Texas. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican 
Leadership standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following 
information regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 3326, the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act of FY 2010:

Requesting Member: Congressman Ralph M. Hall



Bill Number: H.R. 3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act 
of FY 2010:

Account: RDTE, AF

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: L-3 Communications Integrated 
Systems

Address of Requesting Entity: 10001 Jack Finney Boulevard, 
Greenville, Texas 75403

Description of Request: I have secured $2,500,000 for the Rivet Joint 
Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) with L-3 Communications Integrated 
Systems. Funding for this project will fully implement the RC-l35 SOA, 
which will ensure full RIVET JOINT integration in the ISR Enterprise, 
thus meeting USAF/DoD/DNI requirements for making ISR data and 
information discoverable, accessible, and to enable information 
sharing. RIVET JOINT requires continuous, current access to other ISR 
nodes, databases, and special processing to accomplish current and 
projected missions. At the same time, the ISR Enterprise will benefit 
greatly from RC-135 provision of ISR services, both intra- and post-
mission. This will be achieved by building on current ongoing RC-135 
ground systems, extending the number and performance of ISR services 
available through these systems, and fully meeting USAF/DoD/ DNI SOA 
tenets. I certify that I do not have any financial interest in this 
project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Ralph M. Hall

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act 
of FY 2010:

Account: RDTE, A

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Denison Industries

Address of Requesting Entity: 22 Fielder Street, Denison, Texas 75020

Description of Request: I have secured $2,000,000 for the Predictive 
Casting Process Modeling for Rapid Production of Critical Defense 
Components with Denison Industries. Funding for this project will 
develop and implement new casting technologies and materials that will 
give the Department of Defense lightweight alternatives and the lowest 
cost options for producing vehicles that can survive against many of 
today's threats. It will help reverse the trend of U.S. foundries 
closing or moving overseas by leading the transition of new 
technologies that will solidify manufacturing in America and secure 
high skilled jobs and growth markets. It will establish a working 
research facility to further educate the next generation of engineers. 
For an often fragmented industry, it will coordinate resources and 
funding and help assure a continued source of American casting 
producers for both the military and commercial applications. I certify 
that I do not have any financial interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Ralph M. Hall

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act 
of FY 2010:

Account: RDTE, A

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Raytheon Company

Address of Requesting Entity: 2501 West University Drive, McKinney, 
Texas 75071

Description of Request: I have secured $2,000,000 for the Current 
Force common Active Protection System Radar with the Raytheon Company. 
Funding for this project will be used to integrate a critical FCS 
technology, the Active Protection System (APS), into the Army's Current 
Force combat vehicles. Vehicle survivability and protection of our 
Soldiers are paramount concerns for the Army, especially in ongoing 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Army's Abrams, Bradley, and 
Stryker vehicle programs all have requirements for APS. Additional 
federal funding is warranted to meet these requirements and enhance 
force protection. I certify that I do not have any financial interest 
in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Ralph M. Hall

Bill Number: H.R. 3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act 
of FY 2010:

Account: RDTE, N

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Mustang Technology Group

Address of Requesting Entity: 400 West Bethany Drive, Suite 110, 
Allen, Texas 75013.

Description of Request: I have secured $1,000,000 for the Moving 
Target Indicator (MTI) Scout Radar with the Mustang Technology Group. 
The Navy lacks an all-weather airborne unmanned air vehicle (UAV) 
surveillance capability to detect and track high value targets that 
move, stop for a while, and then move again (Move Stop Move: MSM). Not 
having this capability allows suspected fast boat attackers to become 
untraceable when stopped within littoral regions and terrorists that 
stop and plant mines and IEDs along the shoreline to evade 
surveillance. Existing UAV radars possess a multi target track all-
weather capability but do not have the ability to detect and track 
targets that move, stop, then move again. However, a new affordable 
Active Electronic Scanned Array (AESA) based radar is being developed 
for the Navy. The MTI Scout AESA radar hardware has been designed to 
support MSM and funding for this project will help develop, integrate, 
and test the MSM mode software. This radar capability offers the low 
lifecycle costs afforded by solid state reliability, has over twice the 
performance of similar systems, and is upgradeable with simple software 
updates. The light weight and low power of the MTI Scout radar make it 
ideal for many other airborne manned and unmanned surveillance 
platforms including the Predator, Fire Scout and MC-12W Adding the MSM 
function within the size, weight, and power of a UAV airborne platform 
will give field commanders a new lifesaving surveillance tool to win 
the global war on terror. I certify that I do not have any financial 
interest in this project.
