---
---

# CONGRATULATING LITHUANIA ON ITS 1000TH ANNIVERSARY
## `de436fe02f542e74ed635b95e57cc4b4`
`Mr. DURBIN — 11 March 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize an important 
moment for the people of Lithuania. Last month, Lithuania celebrated 
its 1000 year anniversary.

Along with my distinguished colleagues, Senator Voinovich from Ohio 
and Senator Feinstein from California, I have submitted a commemorative 
resolution for this occasion.

As the birthplace of my mother, who came to the United States from 
Lithuania with her parents when she was just 2 years old, Lithuania 
holds a special place in my heart.

One thousand years sounds like a long time, especially in our 
relatively young United States. But historians have noted that the name 
of the area now known as Lithuania first appeared in European records, 
in the German Annals of Quedlinburg.

Traditions of Lithuanian statehood date back to the early Middle 
Ages, when Duke Mindaugas united an assortment of Baltic Tribes to 
defend themselves from attacks by the Teutonic Knights. From these 
early roots, Lithuania grew to encompass territory stretching from the 
Baltic Sea to the Black Sea by the end of the 14th century.

This nation, which once was the largest in Europe, has seen 
extraordinary struggles during the last century. It suffered 50 years 
of occupation, by both Nazi and Soviet forces.

Throughout that time, the U.S. Congress stood in support of Lithuania 
and its Baltic neighbors, Estonia and Latvia, and refused to recognize 
the Soviet occupation. In 2007, the United States and Lithuania 
celebrated 85 years of continuous diplomatic relations.

Today, Lithuania is a thriving free-market democracy and a strong 
ally of the United States. As a member of the European Union and NATO, 
Lithuania contributes to peace and security in Europe. Lithuania also 
contributes to global stability and peace building through its 
contributions to missions in Afghanistan, Iraq, Bosnia, Kosovo and 
Georgia.

When I traveled to Lithuania a few years ago and visited the village 
of my mother and grandparents, I was welcomed warmly by President 
Adamkus, who I have known for many years, and the people of Lithuania. 
I was so proud, not only to see my family's roots, but to see how far 
Lithuania has come, despite the many difficulties it endured in the 
last century.



I congratulate President Adamkus, Foreign Minister Usackas, and the 
people of Lithuania on this historic occasion.