# PROTECT AMERICA ACT OF 2007 EXTENSION
## `de4678e81b8c2ee5eb3bcf30e01c1c92`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 13 February 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman of the 
Judiciary Committee, and I want to personally thank him for the 
extensive work we have done to secure America and as well to protect 
the civil liberties of all Americans.

I hold in my hand the Constitution of the United States embedded in 
this book. When you think of the term ''embedded,'' you think of the 
concerns regarding the Iraq war. You think of the concerns of 
terrorism. You might even think of the concerns of embedded press who 
have been able to travel with our soldiers. But in this instance, I am 
saying that deeply embedded in the hearts of Americans is a concept of 
the Constitution that protects their civil liberties.



I think it is important to note that in fact a bill has been passed 
so many months ago. And I will not argue about the integrity of this 
place, for many have raised that question, that we should have the 
privilege of reviewing the legislation of the Senate, and that 
privilege is necessary.

But I think there is a larger argument, more expanded argument, and 
it must be clarified that we have not dillydallied. We have not 
delayed. We have, in fact, been meticulous in making sure that we have 
balanced a new FISA law, updating it, and also providing that 
protection, that firewall for Americans.

How many of you would have known that initially the administration 
came to us and suggested that while they are surveilling someone on 
foreign soil, if it kicks back to an American, your grandmother, your 
aunt, your uncle, yourself, because it kicks back in a sense that we 
are talking to someone on foreign soil but you happen to be on the 
other side of the phone, that that was okay?

But I offered an amendment, and that amendment is in the bill that 
the House passed, that we cannot tolerate reverse targeting; you must 
get a warrant. There must be an intervention, and I am glad to say it 
is in the Senate bill.

Yet there is a major question that the Senate bill has not addressed, 
and it is the fact that many, many people's rights were violated in the 
course of the old law when the government went straight to the private 
sector and told them you have to do this and so many persons who were 
innocent were violated by surveillance. Now these companies, of which I 
have great respect, I believe they are part of the economic engine of 
this Nation, want us to interfere in the legal system, for many of 
these companies are now being sued retroactively, if you will, or being 
addressed for the grievance they did against an American citizen.

Who are we to stop the normal legal process? If one of these 
corporations has a defensible defense, the judges will rule for them. 
If they were following the law or they have a defense or were relying 
upon representations made by officials of the Federal Government, I can 
assure you that a court of law will give them their relief. Why are we 
interfering where citizens of the American society believe that this 
Constitution and their rights have been violated?

So to my friends who want to provide a scare tactic, let me say to 
you all this legislation does today is to ensure you will be safe by 
extending the existing law. Hopefully we put notice on corporations 
that they should not be violating the civil liberties of Americans, and 
clearly I will tell you, as a member of the Homeland Security 
Committee, that none of us stand in this well to jeopardize the safety 
and security of the American people. Let us dispense with that myth 
altogether.

What is important is that when we finally design a bill that is going 
to be entrenched in law, it must be in compliance with the Constitution 
that is embedded in this bill. It is not today. I ask my colleagues to 
enthusiastically vote for the extension because I believe in security 
and the rights of all Americans.