# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `de49720595c1106372f9c4a7c129defb`
`Mr. THOMPSON of California — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for 
recognizing me for time.

Mr. Speaker and Members, as a combat veteran, from the bottom of my 
heart, I say thank you to the brave men and women who have served in 
Iraq, each with great distinction.

Our troops have done an outstanding job. They have done all that has 
been asked of them and more. They have performed with the utmost 
professionalism, making all of us very proud.

Now, I believe it is past time that we start bringing these brave men 
and


women home. They should be home with their families, not in the middle 
of Iraq's civil war. Moreover, we shouldn't be sending more troops into 
Iraq's civil war. Some of our servicemembers have been on two, three, 
and even four tours of duty in Iraq already.

This escalation would put too much strain on our military and not 
just our troops. Much of our military's equipment is damaged. It will 
take years and billions of dollars to repair it and replace it. Nearly 
every Reserve and National Guard member has been mobilized. The 
escalation is in no one's best interest.

Two weeks ago I joined with my colleague Patrick Murphy from 
Pennsylvania, a decorated Army captain who served in Iraq, to introduce 
binding legislation to begin a phased redeployment of our troops out of 
Iraq. Our bill, which has already attracted 20 co-authors from both 
sides of the aisle and has a companion bill in the Senate, provides a 
practical and comprehensive strategy for ending our military 
involvement in Iraq. It sets a firm deadline for phased redeployment of 
our troops beginning May 1 with all combat brigades out by March 31 of 
2008. It provides a concrete plan for shifting security 
responsibilities to where they belong: with the Iraqis.

I have visited with our troops in Iraq, and I have talked to those 
who have been training the Iraqi security forces. They have told me 
that the U.S. troops have finished their job and that Iraq needs to 
step up and start securing their country. Americans cannot continue to 
do it for them.

Our bill recognizes that the President's escalation plan is a 
continuation of his failed ''stay the course'' slogan and it would not 
allow the increase of troop levels without congressional approval.

Mr. Speaker, the United States cannot win the peace in Iraq. The 
Iraqis must be the ones to do that. Our bill recognizes this reality 
and creates a surge in diplomacy, not troops, by creating a special 
U.S. envoy that will help build relationships between Iraq and their 
neighbors. Our bill is a strategy for success in Iraq and is the best 
way to bring our brave men and women home as quickly and safely as 
possible.

While I strongly believe that today we should be debating and passing 
our binding solution, H.R. 787, I know that this week's debate is the 
first real debate we have had on Iraq in more than 4 years. In this 
week alone, we will more than quadruple the amount of time given to 
debate this war since it began.

Thank you, Speaker Pelosi, for bringing this important matter to the 
floor. This resolution is a critical step in getting our men and women 
out of this ugly mess, a full blown civil war in Iraq. I support 
today's resolution, which joins with the American people in sending the 
President a loud and clear message that escalation is not the answer. 
We need to focus on getting our troops out of Iraq as safely and 
quickly as possible and making sure that the Iraqis step up and assume 
the security responsibilities for their country.

I also rise to tell those who have served, those who are serving in 
Iraq today, and their proud families thank you. Your Nation thanks you 
for your great service to our country.