---
---

# None
## `de5019e580fe0ed336cb4db9cc2d483a`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 8 March 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, let me agree with the majority leader 
that the Iraq debate will be coming. Nobody on my side objects to 
having that debate. It is about supporting the troops.

Shortly we will have before the Senate supplemental appropriations, 
which is about funding for the troops. That debate, I am certain, will 
occur, as the majority leader indicated, before the Easter recess. We 
will take a look at the proposal he offered a few moments ago to see 
whether it is possible to have another Iraq debate next week before we 
have another one 2 weeks from now. But I cannot agree to this today, 
having just been handed the plan the majority has a few moments ago, 
and not having had an opportunity to consult with my own side about 
what proposals we might think would be appropriate to offer--some 3 
weeks after the last discussion of the possibility of entering into a 
unanimous consent agreement to handle this measure.

With regard to the status of the war, I am certain nobody in this 
Chamber objects to the fact we have not been attacked here at home 
since 9/11. I doubt if anybody in the Chamber thinks that is a complete 
accident, some quirk of fate. It is a direct result of having been on 
offense in both Afghanistan and Iraq. Nobody is satisfied with the 
progress made in Iraq. That is why we have a new Secretary of Defense 
and why we have a new general, from whom I and others heard this 
morning, indicating there are early signs that this mission may well 
succeed.

I don't think we ought to say to our troops in the middle of this new 
mission we are not going to support them. That is what this is all 
about. We will get back to the Iraq debate in due time. Members on my 
side of the aisle will be happy to engage. We think this is the most 
important issue in the country, and we look forward to having that 
debate, at the latest in the context of the supplemental appropriation.

I yield the floor.