---
---

# THE 30 SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `de52f54ec5aec3e384d74bb6846bd5e6`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 14 November 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you so much, Mr. Altmire. It is a 
pleasure again to join my colleagues in the 30-Something Working Group. 
And I'm so glad that our newest members of the Working Group, Mr. 
Murphy and Mr. Altmire, have been holding down the fort for the last 
little while talking about spending priorities, because that is 
actually the most glaring difference between the Republicans and the 
way they handled this institution and the Democrats and the way we are 
handling it.

Let's take the problem that we're facing here now that you've been 
talking about, and that is that the President vetoed the Labor Health 
and Human Services and Education appropriations bill. And I am proud to 
sit as a member of the Appropriations Committee with Mr. Ryan. And I 
can tell you that the difference in the overall spending plan that the 
President put forward versus our 12 bills combined amounts to $22 
billion. Now, $22 billion might sound like a big number, but let's put 
it in context.



Twenty-two billion dollars is approximately what we are spending in 
Iraq in 2 months. That's the difference between what Democrats in 
Congress are proposing to spend for all 12 bills combined, the 
difference between the President's proposal and the Democrats' 
proposal. That problem underscores the fact that the President only has 
one spending priority, and that is the war in Iraq. The problem is that 
the only spending priority that matters to President Bush is the war in 
Iraq. It's not even the war in Iraq and Afghanistan because he has so 
clearly shortchanged what was going on in Afghanistan when we started, 
which is where the war on terror, or the pursuit of bin Laden was 
ongoing that we abandoned when he shifted the focus of America to the 
war in Iraq, that it has blocked out the sun. His spending priority, 
his only one, the war in Iraq, has blocked out the sun and made it 
impossible for us to move forward on things like education, like 
expanding access to health care for children, like making sure that we 
can pass a stem cell research bill that the vast majority of this 
country supports.

I will just give you an example of one of the things that resulted 
from the veto of the Labor-HHS bill and that is the increase in Ryan 
White title IV funding for AIDS programs for families. We have an 
explosion of AIDS in this country. We absolutely need to make sure that 
we get a handle on it. There hasn't been an increase in title IV 
funding in years. Now that we are in charge and are making sure that we 
move this country in a new direction, we are focusing on the domestic 
priorities of Americans. Americans want us to withdraw our troops from 
Iraq in a responsible way and focus on things that they care about when 
it comes to their everyday lives. That is literally what the Labor-HHS 
appropriations bill does. It is an expression of our values. And our 
values reflect the needs of Americans when it comes to their health 
care, when it comes to their education, when it comes to their 
environment at work. And the priorities and values reflected in the 
Republicans' agenda is the war in Iraq.

Now, I think the American people clearly stated what their intentions 
were and what they wanted Congress to do last November 7, and we have 
repeatedly, and we did again tonight just before we came on the floor 
this evening for the 30-Something hour, they have repeatedly urged us 
in Congress to begin a responsible withdrawal of our troops, to stop 
sending the troops over for tour after tour, the same men and women, 
the same strain on their families, sending them over there without the 
equipment that they need, sending them over there without the proper 
training, with tours of duty that are beyond the appropriate length of 
time, stretching families, causing divorces, causing strain, 
psychological impact on children, but they don't care. It just doesn't 
matter. The President's priority is Iraq, and everyone else's opinion 
be damned.

I will be happy to yield to the gentleman.