# None
## `de5b2aeb66298d883675f8848de91e83`
`Mr. BROWN — 29 February 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, housing is on the minds of so many Ohioans 
these days, as it is on people's minds across the country. My State has 
the unfortunate distinction of leading the Nation in the percentage of 
property in foreclosure.

Every day, 200 Ohio families lose their homes--200 families every 
single day. The strides we have made as a Nation in increasing home 
ownership in the last few years will be reversed if we don't act.

The foreclosure crisis is having a tremendous impact on all of Ohio. 
No city, no region has been spared. The past few years have seen an 
explosion of predatory lending. The State of Ohio was slow to respond, 
while the Federal Government--regulators and Congress and the 
President--have been even slower to respond. Today, we pay the price.

As late as this summer, President Bush and Secretary Paulson--the 
Bush administration--indicated the problem was largely contained and it 
would


play itself out. So long as the problem was largely contained to Ohio, 
Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, and the Presiding Officer's State of West 
Virginia, the situation was nothing to worry about. But once the 
problem spread from Main Street, Cleveland, or Main Street, Dayton, to 
Wall Street, the administration suddenly became a bit concerned. Not 
overly concerned, mind you. For while it changed its tone a bit, its 
words have not been accompanied by much action. The budget submitted by 
President Bush shows, for example, no signs of a housing crisis. 
Congress appropriated $180 million for housing counseling last 
September at the urging of Senator Schumer, Senator Casey of 
Pennsylvania, and me, from the Banking Committee, but the President 
proposes only about one-third of that for the year ahead and criticizes 
the Reid proposal for continuing that funding.


As cities see their crime rates go up and their property tax bases 
shrink and more and more homes and families vandalized, with copper and 
aluminum being stripped from these homes, the President proposes to cut 
the community development block grant by more than 20 percent.

I appreciate Secretary Paulson's efforts to get voluntary action by 
lenders and servicers. That is a good thing, but it is not nearly 
enough. We have seen a rate of mortgage modifications rise from a 
measly 1 percent to a meager 3 percent. And I have to say, I am not 
confident how much progress even those numbers represent.

My office just heard from a struggling homeowner in Ohio whose lender 
offered to reduce her interest rate from 11 percent to 10 percent. But 
after penalties and late fees were added to the principal, her monthly 
payment barely budged.

Earlier this week, a couple from Lyndhurst, OH, joined Senators 
Klobuchar, Schumer, Durbin, and me in Washington to tell their story. 
John and Vicki Glicken went through a rough patch when John lost his 
job, but he found a new one, and they are doing their best to make 
their payments and stay in their home. They have done everything as 
citizens and as homeowners that we would ask, but doing so is going to 
be impossible for them so long as they are stuck with a loan that costs 
more and more every 6 months.

These families, and millions like them across America, need our help. 
Instead, they are facing foreclosure on one side and a filibuster on 
the other. That is unconscionable.

The legislation we are being prevented from considering, with the 
vote yesterday, when our efforts were blocked, would help hundreds of 
thousands of families like the Glickens. It would help the tens of 
thousands of communities from Ironton, across the river from West 
Virginia, to Steubenville, to Cleveland, to Dayton.

I applaud Majority Leader Reid for trying to act on the legislation 
that would provide vital help to communities and families across the 
country. Under this bill, which I am proud to cosponsor, housing 
agencies would have access to lower cost financing; businesses that are 
struggling would get a boost; cities would be helped by an infusion of 
community development funds, big cities and smaller cities alike; and 
families would be able to restructure their debts and get back on their 
feet.

The administration has made a lot of voluntary efforts to date, and 
to be sure, every bit helps. But the rate freeze will help only a very 
small sliver of people, of borrowers, and banks just aren't being 
responsive enough. They say they have no interest in foreclosing on 
homes, and that is perhaps true, but they do not seem to have the 
capacity to work out loans with people who could afford to make 
payments on a reasonable loan long term. I know lenders want to avoid 
becoming real estate owners, but they do not have the ability to deal 
with problems their lax underwriting standards have created, and they 
are obviously not in the business of rebuilding the communities this 
crisis has threatened.

That is why I think Senator Harry Reid's legislation is so important. 
If we can spend $3 billion a week on the war in Iraq, we can find room 
in our budget to spend $4 billion a year to help communities across 
America get back on their feet. There are billions, tens of billions of 
dollars to rebuild Iraq. Yet President Bush says no to $4 billion to 
rebuild our cities.

The administration has argued this constitutes a bailout for lenders 
and speculators. In Ohio, we are going to meet these people in the 
courthouse, all right, but I assure my colleagues it won't be to record 
the title on some sweetheart deal. Anybody who tries to make the 
argument that cities, both large and small alike, will use community 
development funds to bail out lenders and speculators has no clue what 
is going on in communities such as Springfield and Zanesville and 
Chillicothe.

As we try to rebuild our communities, we must do everything we can to 
keep families in their homes. If lenders and their servicers can't keep 
up with the flood of foreclosures they are facing, it is essential we 
permit the bankruptcy courts to serve as a backdrop; otherwise, the 
problem only gets worse.

Consider this, Mr. President: One of the ratings agencies is now 
predicting a 50-percent default rate for subprime loans made in the 
fourth quarter of 2006--a 50-percent default rate for securitized 
subprime loans. That is not lending, that is putting a bet on black at 
the roulette table with somebody else's home. What happens when that 
bet goes bad? A family is put out on the street, a neighborhood is 
hurt, and a town has one more magnet for trouble.

The banks have trouble too. Nationwide, banks are recovering only 
about 60 cents on the dollar for what they are owed when a home goes 
into foreclosure. In Ohio, that number is only 35 cents, by one 
estimate. When lenders recover only 35 cents on the dollar on a 
foreclosure in my State, I don't think they have anything to fear from 
an alternative process that may result in avoiding foreclosure. Judges 
would only step in when voluntary efforts have failed and when a family 
is on the ropes.

That is why the Reid bill's proposal to permit the modification of 
the mortgages on primary residences makes so much sense. We know 
servicers can't keep up with the flood of bad loans, so we need a 
backstop for the 600,000 or so families that may well end up in 
bankruptcy. Allowing bankruptcy judges to modify a loan on a primary 
residence, just as they can do today on a loan for a vacation home or a 
boat or a family farm or a small business, will not just keep a family 
in a home, it will keep the bank from a 65-percent loss on that 
property.

Two years ago, there were a lot of slick promises made about how 
these loans could be refinanced. Today, we know that is just not the 
case. So we need to act, and we need to act soon so that 2 years from 
now we can focus again on expanding home ownership under reasonable 
terms rather than trying to stop the bleeding.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.