# IN HONOR OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF BRIGADIER GENERAL MICHAEL S.  LINNINGTON
## `de80cafcfc976335e5d31615e1760bc8`
`Mr. BISHOP of Georgia — 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Brigadier 
General Michael S. Linnington originally of Cape May, New Jersey. BG 
Linnington, who has served as the Assistant Commandant and Deputy 
Commanding General for the U.S. Infantry School at Fort Benning, 
Georgia, will soon leave for a new post.

BG Linnington is a graduate of the United States Military Academy. 
After graduation in 1980, he was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the 
Infantry. His early assignments included duties as a Platoon Leader, 
Staff Officer, Aide-de-Camp, and Company Commander at Fort Ord, Fort 
Riley, and the Berlin Brigade in the divided city of West Berlin. 
Following successive Company Commands, he attended graduate school at 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York, and served three 
years as an Instructor in the Department of Math Sciences at the U.S. 
Military Academy, West Point, New York.

After Command and General Staff College in 1994, BG Linnington served 
in the 101st Airborne Division (AASLT) at Fort Campbell, and was 
selected to command 1st Battalion, 503rd Infantry (AASLT) in the 
Republic of Korea, where he served from 1997-1999. Following command, 
he served as the 2nd ID G3, from 1999-2000.

In June 2000, BG Linnington returned to the U.S., attending the 
National War College with a follow-on assignment as Special Assistant 
to the Army Chief of Staff. In May 2002, he assumed command of the 3rd 
Brigade, 101st Airborne Division (AASLT) in Kandahar, Afghanistan 
during Operation Enduring Freedom.

From June 2002 through June 2004, BG Linnington commanded the 3d 
Brigade, 101st Airborne Division, both in Operation Enduring Freedom 
and Operation Iraqi Freedom. He departed command for assignment to the 
Joint Staff, where he was assigned from June 2004 until July 2006. In 
July 2006, COL Linnington was assigned as the Assistant Commandant/
Deputy Commanding General of the U.S. Army Infantry School/Center at 
Fort Benning, where he serves today.

In addition to his numerous military accomplishments, BG Linnington 
is a devoted husband and proud father of two children, Tracy, a senior 
in college, and Michael, a First Lieutenant assigned to Fort Bragg, 
North Carolina.

I am truly honored to be able to call BG Linnington a constituent. 
Though I wish Fort Benning and the Second District could continue to 
benefit from his talents for a while longer, I know he is needed and 
indeed will be of greater service in his new role. I wish him well in 
his new position. May his commitment to this country continue to bless 
our Nation.
