# PAST AND PRESENT CHALLENGES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
## `de857c973e97c40588da45e9652ce09a`
`Mr. REID — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, above all, every day we must continue to 
fight for a sensible, responsible path out of Iraq in order to restore 
America's national security. Later this month, President Bush will 
issue a report on the state of the war that Congress required of him. 
We hope he will use this report as an opportunity to finally do the 
right thing and begin to change the core U.S. mission and begin 
reducing U.S. forces in Iraq. We will receive this report with an open 
mind. We will consider the White House findings carefully and 
thoughtfully, but we must remember the President's report comes after 
more than 4 years of war, with almost 3,800 dead American soldiers, 
sailors, marines, and airmen, tens of thousands more injured, and 
American taxpayers having to foot a bill of more than half a trillion 
dollars.

President Bush will send General Petraeus to Capitol Hill to 
testify. There is not one Member of this body who does not respect 
General Petraeus. He is a good man and a good soldier. But Senator 
Biden said over the weekend that there are not 12 Senators out of 100 
who support the war as it is now being conducted--not 12. He said that 
over and over again. I agree with Senator Biden.


But the President cannot hide behind the generals. This is George 
Bush's war. He is responsible for the mistakes and missteps that leave 
our troops mired in a civil war with no end in sight.

The mission has not been accomplished. When he said ''Bring 'em on,'' 
that was the wrong thing to say. According to the President when he set 
forth his escalation policy, the purpose of the troop increase was to 
give the Iraqis space and safety to forge political progress--to build 
a sustainable government and provide for their own security.

None of this has happened. Take, for example, the LA Times today, the 
headline: ''Troop Buildup Fails to Reconcile Iraq,'' or today's GAO 
report, which tells us the President's strategy has failed to achieve 
15 of 18 key benchmarks. Sectarian strife is deepening and violence 
shifting. Last month was the deadliest for the Iraqi people in the 
history of the war. Contrary to the assertions of the President, Iraq's 
leaders have not honored the sacrifices of our troops by taking 
meaningful steps toward building a country that can stand on its own. 
That is not our troops' fault, nor is it a problem our troops can 
solve. It is an Iraqi political problem, not a U.S. military problem. 
We cannot continue to sacrifice American lives, deplete our Treasury, 
and weaken our national security in pursuit of a goal that the Iraqi 
people themselves show no interest in achieving.

Meanwhile, al-Qaida is resurgent, and we all know Osama bin Laden 
remains at large. There are countless stories that highlight the human 
toll this war has taken. Let's look to Nevada for one.

As I was flying back, I was stunned by reading in the Las Vegas Sun 
newspaper a heartbreaking story of Army PFC Travis Virgadamo, 19 years 
old, in his second tour of duty in Iraq. He loved his country. He loved 
serving in the military. That is what he always wanted to do. Yet after 
months of serving in Iraq, as he described it, ''being ordered into 
houses without knowing what was behind strangers' doors, walking along 
on roadsides fearing the next step could trigger lethal explosives''--
those were his words--he left. He tried to get help. He came back, told 
his parents he did not want to go back. He told his military superiors 
he didn't want to go back. He was given medicine. The newspaper 
reported it was Prozac. As I said, he sought therapy, mental health 
care while overseas, but last week the military informed his family he 
committed suicide. He was 19 years old.

Last year, the Veterans Affairs Department reported that more than 
56,000 veterans of Iraq have been diagnosed with mental illness. We 
have heard countless examples of our troops receiving inadequate mental 
health care, and in many cases being sent back into battle, like this 
young man, PFC Travis Virgadamo.

My heart goes out to his family. They are quoted in the paper, as to 
what he said when he was trying to stay here and not go back. They have 
suffered so much. We owe them a change of course.

Many of my Republican friends have long held September is the month 
for a policy change in Iraq. Those who opposed our early efforts asked 
for time and patience to let the war continue. The calendar has not 
changed. It is September. We have reached this goal. It is time to make 
a decision. We can't continue the way we are. We cannot afford it 
militarily and financially.

We will soon hear, as I have indicated, from the President and his 
generals what we know already, political progress has failed. Now it is 
time for our Republican colleagues--I so admire and appreciate those 
who have joined us in the past. For example, on the Webb amendment we 
got 57 votes. With Senator Johnson coming back we need two more 
Republican votes to do the right thing: When you go to Iraq for 15 
months, you stay home for 15 months. That is what Webb did. That is why 
we picked up Republican votes. We need two more Republican votes.

It is time for our Republican colleagues to join with us, to stand 
for our troops and the American people to responsibly end this war; to 
do things that will change it.

I began with words of tribute for two of our most distinguished 
colleagues, Senators Warner and Kennedy, one Democrat, one Republican, 
both firmly committed to progress, progress for our country. They 
recognize and they have shown it can only be accomplished by 
bipartisanship. All of us appreciate the Herculean efforts of Senator 
Kennedy, working with Democrats and Republicans alike on immigration, 
Leave No Child Behind, and Medicare. The work that Senator Warner has 
done for years, especially on the Defense authorization bill, on a 
bipartizan basis--I appreciate it; many of us do. The country 
appreciates it. The people of Virginia appreciate Senator Warner's 
courage to stand up to the President of his own party and reach across 
the aisle to reach a responsible end to this war. As we tackle the 
challenges ahead, the outstanding work of these two great Senators 
ought to be our compass.

I am confident and hopeful all 100 of us will follow their lead and 
keep America moving forward.
