---
---

# AFGHANISTAN BUILD-UP
## `de9cbbc8e5d9d86bb2270fd885a6be15`
`Mr. JONES — 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, this past Sunday, I read a column in the 
Raleigh News and Observer, entitled ''From Vietnam 1959 to Afghanistan 
2009.'' The column was written by Joseph Galloway, a military 
journalist and co-author of a book on Vietnam called, ''We Were 
Soldiers Once and Young.''








 [From the News & Observer, July 19, 2009]









 From Vietnam 1959 to Afghanistan 2009



 (By Joseph L. Galloway, McClatchy-Tribune Information Services




 Bayside, Texas.--It was just about half a century ago, on 


 the night of July 8, 1959, that the first two American 


 soldiers to die in the Vietnam War were slain when guerrillas 


 surrounded and shot up a small mess hall where half a dozen 


 advisers were watching a movie after dinner.



 Master Sgt. Chester Ovnand of Copperas Cove, Texas, and 


 Maj. Dale Buis of Imperial Beach, Calif., would become the 


 first two names chiseled on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial--


 the first of 58,220 Americans who died in Vietnam during the 


 next 16 years.



 The deaths of Ovnand and Buis went largely unnoticed at the 


 time, simply a small beginning of what would become a huge 


 national tragedy.



 Presidents from Harry Truman to Dwight Eisenhower to John 


 F. Kennedy to Lyndon B. Johnson to Richard M. Nixon to Gerald 


 R. Ford made decisions--some small and incremental, some 


 large and disastrous--in building us so costly and tragic a 


 war.





 The national security handmaidens of those presidents, 


 especially those who served Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon and Ford, 


 were supposedly the best and brightest that Harvard and Yale 


 and Princeton could contribute.



 Presidents right up to today's like to surround themselves 


 with such self-assured and certain men, men whose eagerness 


 to find war the answer to most problems often grows in direct 


 proportion to their lack of experience in uniform or combat.



 This small history lesson can be read as a cautionary tale 


 to President Barack Obama's team as it oversees an 


 excruciating slow-motion end of one war, Iraq, and a pell-


 mell rush to wade ever deeper into another one in the 


 mountains and deserts of remote and tribal Afghanistan.



 The story grows out of a battle in the very beginning of 


 the American takeover of the war in South Vietnam in the fall 


 of 1965 when a defense secretary, Robert S. McNamara, counted 


 the bodies and the beans and offered his president two 


 directly opposing options.



 In the wake of the Ia Drang Valley battles of November 


 1965--the first major collision between an experimental 


 airmobile division of the U.S. Army and regular soldiers in 


 division strength from the People's Army of North Vietnam--


 President Johnson ordered McNamara to rush to Vietnam and 


 assess what had happened and what was going to happen.



 Up till then, just more than 1,000 Americans, mostly 


 advisers and pilots, had been killed in Vietnam since Ovnand 


 and Buis. Then, in just five days 234 more Americans had been 


 killed and hundreds wounded in the Ia Drang. McNamara took 


 briefings from Gen. William Westmoreland, the top U.S. 


 commander in Vietnam, and from Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge 


 and assorted spy chiefs and diplomats. Then he flew to An Khe 


 in the Central Highlands and was briefed on the Ia Drang 


 battles by then Lt. Col. Hal Moore, who had commanded on the 


 ground in Landing Zone XRAY in the Ia Drang.



 On the plane home to Washington, McNamara dictated a Top 


 Secret/Eyes Only memo to Johnson dated Nov. 30, 1965. In that 


 report he stated that the enemy had not only met but had 


 exceeded our escalation of the war and we had reached a 


 decision point. In his view there were two options:



 Option One: We could arrange whatever diplomatic cover we 


 could arrange and pull out of South Vietnam.



 Option Two: We could give Gen. Westmoreland the 200,000 


 more U.S. troops he was asking for, in which case by early 


 1967 we would have more than 500,000 Americans on the ground, 


 and they would be dying at the rate of 1,000 a month. (He was 


 wrong; the death toll would reach over 3,000 a month at the 


 height of the war). ''All we can possibly achieve (by this) 


 is a military stalemate at a much higher level of violence,'' 


 McNamara wrote.



 On Dec. 15, 1965, the president assembled what he called 


 the ''wise men'' for a brainstorming session on Vietnam. He 


 entered the Cabinet room holding McNamara's memo. He shook it 


 at McNamara and asked: ''Bob, you mean to tell me no matter 


 what I do, I can't win in Vietnam?'' McNamara nodded yes; 


 that was precisely what he meant.



 The wise men sat in session for two days. Participants say 


 there was no real discussion of McNamara's Option One--it 


 would have sent the wrong message to our Cold War allies--and 


 at the end there was a unanimous vote in favor of Option 


 Two--escalating and continuing a war that our leaders knew we 


 could not win.



 Remember. This was 1965, 10 years before the last 


 helicopter lifted off that roof in Saigon. It's a hell of a 


 lot easier to get sucked into a war or jump feet first into a 


 war than it is to get out of a war.



 There's no question that Obama inherited these two wars, 


 Iraq and Afghanistan, from the Bush/Cheney administration. 


 But the buildup in Afghanistan and the change in strategy 


 belong to Obama and his version of the best and brightest.



 The new administration has dictated an escalation from 


 30,000 U.S. troops to more than 60,000, and even before most 


 of them have actually arrived commanders on the ground are 


 already back asking for more, and why not? When you are a 


 hammer everything around you looks like a nail.



 Some smart veterans of both Iraq and Afghanistan, on the 


 ground now or just back, say that at this rate we will 


 inevitably lose the war in Afghanistan; that the situation on 


 the ground now is far worse than Iraq was at its lowest point 


 in 2006 and early 2007. They talk of a costly effort both in 


 lives and national treasure that will stretch out past the 


 Obama administration and maybe the two administrations after 


 that.



 Obama needs to call in the ''wise men and women'' for a 


 fish-or-cut bait meeting on his two ongoing wars. Let's hope 


 that this time around, there's an absence of the arrogance 


 and certainty of previous generations of advisers. Let's hope 


 that they choose to speed up the withdrawal of combat troops 


 from Iraq and get out before the Iraqi people and leaders 


 order us to leave. Let's hope, too, that they weigh very 


 carefully all the costs of another decade or two of war in 


 Afghanistan.



 Failing that, they should at the very least begin an 


 immediate drive to increase the number of available beds in 


 military and Veterans Administration hospitals and to expand 


 Arlington National Cemetery and the national military 


 cemeteries nationwide.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps the column's most salient point is its 
description of a time in 1965 when Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara 
presented President Lyndon Baines Johnson with a top secret memo. It 
indicated that the United States had reached a decision point with two 
available options. The first option was to arrange diplomatic cover and 
to pull out of South Vietnam. The second option was to increase the 
number of American troops by 200,000, bringing the total to more than 
500,000 Americans on the ground.

Regarding this second option, Mr. McNamara stated, ''All we can 
possibly achieve is a military stalemate at a much higher level of 
violence.'' I want to repeat that.

Regarding the second option, Mr. McNamara stated, ''All we can 
possibly achieve is a military stalemate at a much higher level of 
violence.''

From that time when President Johnson chose to escalate and to 
continue the war until its conclusion, America suffered 56,000 more 
casualties.

Mr. Speaker, President Obama's administration has reached a similar 
decision point with regard to Afghanistan. Last month, on June 25 of 
2009, I joined Congressman Jim McGovern in offering an amendment to the 
National Defense Authorization Act that would have required the 
Secretary of Defense to submit a report to Congress which outlines an 
exit strategy for our Armed Forces in Afghanistan.

While I regret that this amendment was not approved, I still believe 
it's critical for the current administration to clearly articulate 
benchmarks for success and an end point to its war strategy in 
Afghanistan. The men and women of our military who have served in Iraq 
and Afghanistan have done a magnificent job. Many have been deployed 
four or five times.

Let's not forget, as General Petraeus has said, ''Afghanistan has 
been known over the years as the graveyard of empires. We cannot take 
that history lightly.''

That is why it is so important for this current administration to 
have an end point to its strategy in Afghanistan. This strategy must be 
articulated sooner rather than later so we can avoid going down the 
path of other failed empires, and so we can avoid the tragedy and the 
mistake of Vietnam, when elected officials in Washington never 
articulated an end point or an understanding of what was to be 
achieved.

Mr. Speaker, I have Camp Lejeune and Cherry Point Marine Air Station, 
Camp Lejeune being a Marine base, and I have Seymour Johnson Air Force 
Base. I've talked to many of all ranks in the Marine Corps. They're 
willing to go back and to go back again and again and again, but we're 
getting to the point where we're about to break our military. It is 
time that the new administration has an end point to whatever we're 
trying to achieve in Afghanistan.

With that, Mr. Speaker, before I close, as I do frequently on the 
floor, I tell you without pride that I've signed over 8,000 letters in 
the last 6 years because of my mistake in giving President Bush the 
authority to go into Iraq. So I close tonight by asking God to please 
bless our men and women in uniform. I ask God to please bless the 
families of our men and women in uniform, and I ask God, in his loving 
arms, to hold the families who have given a child dying for freedom in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. Mr. Speaker, I close by asking three times: God, 
please, God, please, God, please continue to bless America.
