---
---

# MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO PROVISION GRANTING SPECIAL IMMIGRANT  STATUS FOR CERTAIN IRAQIS
## `dea4a938777e37e5e149b44456bfbcbb`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 19 May 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Again, let me thank the members of the 
Judiciary Committee, the chairman and ranking member and the manager of 
this bill, Mr. Scott.

Mr. Speaker, this is a question of life or death. Many of us have 
traveled to Iraq. I just recently came back in the last couple of 
weeks. In fact, I was utilizing our delegation's Iraqi translators. We 
were out in the field, we were talking to Iraqi soldiers, and these 
translators were enormously important. They're utilized in Afghanistan 
as well.

But it is not just the translators and others in this realm, in this 
era, that we speak of. We remember those who ventured out in the early 
stages of this war that was initiated by this administration, 
individuals who jeopardized the lives of their families and themselves 
to really align themselves with U.S. soldiers, necessary vital 
components of serving the soldiers in order to save the U.S. soldiers' 
lives.



Some of these individuals still remain under threat in Iraq.

This is a balanced approach. This is an approach order offered by 
Senator Kennedy along with a number of bipartisan Senators. And let me 
pay tribute to Senator Kennedy. He has always looked to balance our 
security along with benefit. I pay tribute to him, and I particularly 
pay tribute to him for this initiative because what it says is for 
those who have been caught in an abyss, who have been caught in between 
and in betwixt now have 5,000 visas to be able to utilize to provide a 
safety net for them and their families.

There are millions of internally displaced persons in Iraq. It is a 
disruptive and an unstable situation. Those individuals who have lent 
their talents to the U.S. Government and the U.S. military face 
jeopardy. Many of their neighbors know what they have done.

So I rise to support this legislation because I believe it is a 
partnership between the Homeland Security Department and the State 
Department, working together to ensure, as they vet these individuals, 
that they have access to the visas.

The problem that this is fixing is that the loophole or the provision 
was closed, legitimately closed for legitimate requests, and 
individuals who were applying under an old process, that would not make 
them eligible. This simply clears up that problem. It vets the 
individuals to utilize the visas, and it helps to save lives.

I ask, Mr. Speaker, that our colleagues support this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 2829, an act to make 
technical corrections to section 1244 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2008, which provides special 
immigrant status for certain Iraqis, and for other purposes.

This bill addresses two problems with our ability to protect those 
who deserve our protection. In January, we enacted a new Special 
Immigrant Visa, SIV, program for Iraqis whose lives are at risk because 
of their valuable service to our government. The SIVs were supposed to 
be available beginning this fiscal year. But a drafting error rendered 
the SIVs unavailable until the next fiscal year. The bill fixes these 
errors.

The bill also helps out a few hundred Iraqi and Afghan translators 
who, because of the error, continued to apply for visas under an older 
program. Although many of their applications have been processed and 
approved, they cannot come to the U.S. because of the 500 visa cap in 
that program has already been reached.

This bill would create a 4-month transition period under which the 
Administration can allow persons with approved petitions in the older 
program to use one of the 5,000 visas in the new program.

We owe a duty to protect foreign nationals who provide valuable 
services to our soldiers, diplomats, and other government officials 
overseas. These individuals risk their lives and that of their 
families, to assist and to protect our endeavors and our people. It is 
only right that we return the favor.