---
---

# UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2009--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `deab12dde1d0d324399e269e0b295108`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 28 October 2009`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I have just returned from Afghanistan. 
I was there over the weekend. I wanted to take a moment and share a few 
impressions. I traveled with Senator Burr, who is a colleague of mine 
on the Intelligence Committee, and with Senator LeMieux of Florida. We 
visited Kabul, Jalalabad, and a military location further out in the 
field.

It was my third trip to Afghanistan. That makes me no expert. But I 
do hope my observations might be of some interest or use to my 
colleagues. Before I begin, our colleagues should know the perception 
in Kabul of how extremely valuable the efforts of our colleague Senator 
Kerry have been. It was clear the resolution that we saw to the 
election dilemma could not have happened without Senator Kerry.

The more our officials in Afghanistan knew about that situation, the 
stronger their views were about Senator Kerry's irreplaceable role. 
Even President Karzai commented on it in our meeting with him. So a 
well earned ''well done'' to our colleague and friend.

While the situation in Afghanistan is obviously complex and 
difficult, the best news for us is that the Taliban remains very 
unpopular. The Taliban's strength comes from the fact, not 
unreasonably, that many Afghans are terrified of them.

If the Taliban are willing to ride into town and cut off the ears of 
the village elder's son in front of the whole village, it requires 
considerable courage and confidence on their part in us and the Afghan 
Government for that village to stand up to those Taliban.

The Afghan people do not lack courage. Indeed, their courage and 
resistance in standing up to the Soviet invasion are among the reasons 
the Cold War is over, and why America is largely out of the shadow of 
that nuclear threat. When we think of our role in Afghanistan, it is 
worth considering our obligations in the light of what their struggle 
against the Soviet Union has meant for our country, our safety and our 
liberty. So courage is not something that Afghans lack.

But there is a compelling need for the Afghan people to feel 
confidence in their government and confidence in us. The best avenue to 
increasing Afghani confidence in their government will be reducing 
government corruption. It is a pernicious cancer throughout much of the 
Afghan Government.


Once this election is settled--and I will assume that President 
Karzai will emerge victorious--President Karzai can then turn his 
attention to his new administration. And then I think it is vital--and 
it is unanimously seen to be vital by the officials I spoke to--that 
vigorous efforts against corruption be a leading part of President 
Karzai's commitment to the Afghan people.

Confidence in us is equally important, but confidence in us must be 
measured against its counterweight, which is dependence on us. 
President Karzai, his ministers, and his challenger, Dr. Abdullah, are 
extremely grateful for the sacrifice that America has made for the 
benefit of their people, and they do not hesitate to say so. But at the 
same time, it is a realistic human impulse to be pleased if someone 
else will do something for you that you would otherwise have had to do 
yourself.

So, on the one hand, assuring the Afghan people of our reliable and 
enduring commitment to their struggle, while, on the other hand, 
ensuring that the Afghan Government meets its responsibilities, rather 
than just relying on us to fight their war, is the difficult balance we 
must achieve.

The more President Karzai--after this election is settled--can assume 
the mantle of a wartime President and accept responsibility that he is 
the military leader of this struggle, as well as the newly elected 
leader of Afghanistan, the better it will be. But it also seems to me 
that a strategic agreement with the Afghan Government, a strategic 
agreement that more clearly lays out the responsibilities and the 
commitments on either side, would be a good vehicle to set that 
balance.

The confidence of the Afghan people in our steadfastness is necessary 
to their willingness to fight this enemy, and the Afghan Government 
stepping up clearly to its responsibilities is necessary to our 
willingness to fight this enemy. Together, where those goals intersect, 
we can win. Divided, we cannot.

Sorting this out will not be easy. For too many years, we have been 
''muddling through'' in Afghanistan. President Obama's appointee, 
General McChrystal, has now called for a new strategy. I think the 
President is wise and patient to think this through carefully as he 
leads us out of the muddle and develops a winning strategy.

No one I spoke to in Afghanistan thought the need for new troops was 
immediate. The 21,000 additional troops President Obama sent are still 
being absorbed. Winter is coming with its seasonal lull in the 
violence. Questions about Pakistan's role supporting the Taliban in 
Afghanistan are unresolved, questions whose answers will make our 
challenge in Afghanistan either far more easy or far more difficult. 
This is not simple and should not suddenly be rushed now, after years 
of muddling.

In evaluating the decision that President Obama faces, it is worth 
considering the actual report that General McChrystal provided. We have 
heard a lot about it, and most of it has had to do with the immediate 
deployment of troops.



The report, if you look at it, has a slightly different cast. In his 
report, General McChrystal identified ''two fundamental changes''--that 
is his quote--''two fundamental changes'' that are required.

One is this--and I quote--




 ISAF must focus on getting the basics right.


ISAF is International Security Assistance Force. It is the 
international force that America leads in Afghanistan. Here is one: 
''ISAF must focus on getting the basics right.''

Two:




 ISAF must also adopt a new strategy.


Those are his one and two points--''getting the basics right'' and 
''adopt a new strategy.''

To continue quoting General McChrystal's report:




 The key take away from this assessment is the major need 


 for a systematic change to our strategy and the way we think 


 and operate.


Let me quote that again:




 The key--


This is the McChrystal report quoted verbatim--




 The key take away from this assessment is the major need 


 for a systematic change to our strategy and the way we think 


 and operate.


That is the task on which the President has embarked, and after years 
of muddling, I think he is entitled to a reasonable time to get it 
right.

I would like to highlight three of the areas that General McChrystal 
emphasized in his report.

I will quote again. One:




 Tour lengths should be long enough to build continuity and 


 ownership of success.


Afghan society is deeply complex, personal, and it is governed by 
codes of conduct and honor. Our decisionmakers on the ground need to 
know the social terrain to be effective. That message has been loud and 
clear from my trips to that country. But the conclusion from the 
general is that ''Tour lengths should be long enough to build 
continuity and ownership of success.'' This will be hard on our troops 
and their families, and it will also be hard on the back-office 
bureaucracies that have to accommodate this. But that is what he said. 
There it is.

This is another quote. Two:




 ISAF must operate differently. Preoccupied with force 


 protection, ISAF has operated in a manner that distances 


 itself, both physically and psychologically, from the people 


 they seek to protect.


An example of this is that the reconstruction of a bridge or a school 
is good and important and valuable, but if the convoy of MRAPs ran 
everybody off the road in all the villages that they went through on 
the way to that school or bridge, the signal that we are there to help 
is lost.

This is a hard point that General McChrystal has made: reducing the 
cocoon of force protection around our civilian and military personnel 
creates greater exposure to casualties. General McChrystal has faced 
this point squarely.

Third, and somewhat amazingly--I will quote again--




 Major insurgent groups outperform GIROA and ISAF at 


 information operations.


Again, ISAF is the International Security Assistance Force. GIROA is 
the acronym for the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. 
So I plug that into the quote and it says: Major insurgent groups 
outperform the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and 
the International Security Assistance Force at information operations.

I will tell you, for a country that invented Madison Avenue 
advertising and public relations, this is a bitter pill. And this was 
confirmed during our trip. Although we saw a few areas that gave us 
hope, overall, officials acknowledged that information operations 
appear to be operating with far less sophistication and energy than 
tactical military operations.

I have the impression that for too long this function has been seen 
really as information supply rather than information combat. Everybody 
in this Chamber has gotten here--or at least almost everybody has 
gotten here--after having won an election in which they had to engage 
in prolonged information combat against the other side to get their 
message across. Our information operations do need to be improved in 
Afghanistan, and it is commendable that General McChrystal has 
recognized it.

Let me be clear. This is not propaganda. This is not making up a lot 
of spin. This is getting the facts out faster and better. As General 
McChrystal noted in his report--and I quote again--''this is 'a deeds-
based' information environment,'' but we do have the deeds. We have 
villages peaceful. We have markets opened. We have Taliban fighters 
turning in their guns to seek reconciliation.

We have, on the negative side, horrific Taliban atrocities that 
offend Afghan culture as well as our own--so that we can tell a winning 
and truthful story to the Afghan people, but, as General McChrystal has 
acknowledged, we have to get better at this.

I will conclude with an expression of gratitude and a final 
observation. We should be extraordinarily grateful to our Americans 
serving in Afghanistan, not just for their courage and sacrifice, which 
are remarkable in themselves, but also for their skill to fight an 
enemy of lunatics, criminals, and fanatics for whom no brutality is too 
offensive, while, at the same time, protecting the civilian population 
within which the enemy operates--all while protecting the values we 
Americans hold dear. That is no small trick.

The men and women who have developed this to an unprecedented level 
of competence--even mastery--deserve our commendation: the Rangers, on 
long and arduous patrols through harsh terrain; the special operations 
teams, working by night to disable enemy leaders; the interrogators, 
working far from home to develop intelligence about this enemy, well 
within the bounds of decency and the norms of military conduct, and 
very successfully; the analysts, at work 24/7, processing that 
intelligence to maintain nearly immediate situational awareness for our 
forces; the pilots, delivering goods and personnel wherever and 
whenever required; and the vast support structure that keeps those 
aircraft operational in one of the harshest environments on Earth; the 
marines, clearing and rebuilding villages in Helmand Province, not just 
rebuilding villages but rebuilding trust and security for those 
families; our silent services, whose only reward is their success and 
the respect of their peers; the reconstruction teams, working to bridge 
barriers of culture and language, and our own bureaucratic barriers, to 
rebuild the infrastructure of civilized life: schools for girls, roads 
to market--that is all just a slice of the courage, devotion, and skill 
that Americans are bringing to this challenge.

My final observation is this: Wherever I have been on three visits 
now, American soldiers of all ranks have a tangible respect and 
affection for their Afghan counterparts. The Afghan soldier could be 
centuries behind us technologically, but he comes from a martial 
tradition lasting thousands of years, producing men who are brave, 
resourceful, hardy, principled, and willing to fight.

I remember a bearded special forces officer telling me about the 
commandoes he was training, that when he went out on patrol with them, 
he had no hesitation. They called each other brothers. And he said 
there was not a man in his group who would not lay down his life to 
protect him. For all the difficulties we will face--and this is not 
easy--I think this aspect provides a platform for some optimism about 
growing an effective Afghan national military and police to assume its 
necessary role protecting Afghanistan's security and sovereignty and 
speeding our return home.


I thank the Presiding Officer. I yield the floor, and I note the 
absence of a quorum.