---
---

# HONORING THE OUTSTANDING COMMUNITY SERVICE OF WENDY MILLER
## `deb16d99b46bfd684371ba264cc36c9c`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Wendy Miller of Jamison, Pennsylvania for her dedication to our 
soldiers overseas. Her efforts have brought hope to many soldiers 
serving in Afghanistan and Iraq, as well as here at home.

For the past three years, Ms. Miller, working through the program 
Anysoldier, has collected various supplies, clothes, and treats from 
family, friends, and neighbors. Each year she collects a thousand 
homemade valentines and hundreds of homemade cards and letters from 
area children. She then ships the packages to the units requesting 
supplies on anysoldier.com.

Ms. Miller has shipped 130 boxes already, and plans to ship another 
100 in the next month. She has taken the initiative to organize 
volunteers in four other neighborhoods to help collect the donations. 
The project has been so successful that she plans to send at least 500 
boxes by the end of the year.

Her hard work has not gone unappreciated. In fact, Madam Speaker, Ms. 
Miller has received letters from soldiers, thanking her for the 
supplies, for the hope each shipment gives them, and for the reminder 
that they are not forgotten. The generosity of the hundreds of 
residents who participate in this project is overwhelming, and the 
devotion of Ms. Miller is incredible.

One letter of thanks from a soldier serving in Afghanistan reads 
''Your care package got our soldiers smiling after a long day.'' Madam 
Speaker, as a veteran of the Iraq war, I rise today on behalf of 
American soldiers to thank Wendy Miller and her neighbors for their 
unending dedication and generosity.
