---
---

# REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE
## `deb1c19540f49c3d08a53183d1897133`
`Mr. NEUGEBAUER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. NEUGEBAUER. Mr. Speaker, I was listening with interest this 
evening about all of the things that are going, supposedly, not well in 
Iraq. So I hope to spend the next hour with some of my colleagues 
talking about the things that are going well. I thought it was 
interesting as the other side was talking about how they support our 
troops, and are thankful for the wonderful job they are doing, yet they 
have made them wait 107 days for much-needed resources to do the job 
that we have asked them to do.

We are going to talk about that later on this evening, of all of the 
things that our young men and women have


had to wait for as we have been playing a political game, or the other 
side, I would say, has been playing the political game, and our young 
men and women have been doing and continue to do the professional job 
that they have been doing for so many times.

I have been to Iraq three times myself, and tonight I am joined by 
some of my colleagues that have also been over there. We are going to 
talk about this war, because it's a real war. I think some people try 
to minimize what is going on in this global war on terrorism, but, in 
fact, it is a real war. We will talk about where this war is being 
fought. It's not just being fought in Iraq and Afghanistan. We are also 
going to talk about the fact that Iraq is a central front for the war 
on terrorism.

Finally, we are also going to talk a lot about the progress that's 
being made over there. General Pace was in Congress today briefing 
Members on what's going on in Iraq and brought forth a very positive 
report in many ways.

I look forward to this time. I am certainly glad that some of my 
friends on the other side weren't around when we fought the 
Revolutionary War, because it might have been too expensive, or we 
might have lost too many lives. What we do know is freedom and 
democracy has never come cheap. It comes with a price.

We enjoy the freedoms. In fact, we enjoy the freedom to be on the 
floor tonight with our colleagues because of price that many have paid 
that have gone before us. I am very proud of them. Every time that I 
have had the opportunity to travel and be with our soldiers, it makes 
me proud to be an American.

I would like to recognize my good friend from New Mexico, my neighbor 
Mr. Pearce. Mr. Pearce has also been to Iraq on three different 
occasions. He has seen many of the things that I have been alluding to. 
I would ask him to talk about his perspective of what is going on in 
the global war on terrorism.