# WELCOMING THE ROMANIAN DELEGATION
## `debcdf729411a4b6366c09e8ce79e4e2`
`Mr. ORTIZ — 12 June 2007`

---


Mr. ORTIZ. Madam Speaker, I rise as co-chair of the Romanian Caucus 
to welcome Foreign Minister Adrian Cioroianu of Romania to the United 
States. Foreign Minister Cioroianu represents an increasingly pivotal 
ally in our country's efforts to preserve global security, prosperity, 
and democracy.

Foreign Minister Cioroianu picked up the reins of Romania's 
diplomatic corps just 2 months ago and he is already proving his 
commitment to a strong transatlantic unity in his visit. Foreign 
Minister Cioroianu's delegation hopes to plan an April 2008 NATO summit 
to be hosted in his country, discuss global antiterrorism initiatives 
with his counterparts here, and collaborate with them on regional 
security issues. The delegation's agenda is a symbol of a Romania that 
is steadfast in its responsible pursuit of global welfare.

Romania has played a leading geopolitical role as a regional power in 
Eastern Europe with its position at the crossroads of Europe and 
Russia. The country recently hosted an Organization for Security and 
Co-operation in Europe meeting regarding anti-Semitism, an issue still 
fresh in the minds of leaders in the region.

Romania is taking a leading diplomatic role in the western Balkans, 
particularly in mediating talks on the status of Kosovo. Through these 
diplomatic efforts and others, Romania is ensuring an Eastern Europe 
that is peaceful and stable for freedom and prosperity to take root.

The country is also playing a growing economic role in the region. On 
January 1, 2007, Romania entered the European Union, after achieving a 
decade of substantial economic development even in the face of a global 
economic recession. Romania is embracing a free market while fostering 
the growth of a new middle class that will serve as a key to a 
successful economic society. Romania is becoming an economic engine for 
its neighbors to the East and West.

Inducted to NATO only 3 years ago, Romania is already an active 
participant in NATO operations and has contributed troops to both U.S. 
wars, with NATO troops in Afghanistan and with around 500 military 
personnel in Iraq. The Romanian military is playing an honorable and 
cooperative role in providing security in numerous spots throughout the 
globe.

I ask my colleagues to join me in welcoming Foreign Minister 
Cioroianu and the Romanian delegation to the United States. Congress 
will continue to promote a strong cooperative relationship between our 
two countries and I thank the Foreign Minister for his service.
