---
---

# HONORING ARMY SPECIALIST ROBERT J. DIXON OF MINNEAPOLIS
## `dec2531e741c074037d29532f61db44c`
`Mr. ELLISON — 21 May 2007`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Army Specialist 
Robert J. Dixon of Minneapolis who died on May 6th in Baghdad. His 
funeral service occurred on Thursday May 18th in Minneapolis and I 
would like to read the following May 11th, 2007 Associated Press 
Article about Army Specialist Dixon into the record:

A Minneapolis soldier who graduated from high school in Gladwin and 
was just three months into his tour in Iraq was killed when an 
improvised explosive device detonated near his vehicle, the military 
said.

Army Spc. Robert J. Dixon, 27, died May 6 in Baghdad, the Defense 
Department said Wednesday. He was assigned to the 1st Squadron, 4th 
Cavalry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division at 
Fort Riley, Kan.

Dixon was born in Portland, Ore., but moved to Gladwin in 1992, said 
Irene Dixon, who said she and her husband Daniel were Robert Dixon's 
legal guardians. In high school, Robert was a running back for the 
football team, set the school record in the 100-meter dash and also 
wrestled, his mother said.

''He especially enjoyed family activities,'' Irene Dixon told The 
Associated Press on Thursday. ''We did a lot of family activities. He 
hunted, he paint-balled, he snowboarded. We went camping, snowmobiling.

''If you ever knew Bobby, you'd love him. Every time we got a report 
from a teacher it couldn't have been any better. We got a call from a 
commander who said everybody there (in Iraq) loved him.''

After graduating from high school, Dixon attended Olivet College for 
a year and later was briefly enrolled at Northwood University in 
Midland.

Dixon joined the Army in the summer of 2005, shortly after he moved 
to Minneapolis in search of work, his mother said.

''He wanted to further his education, and he always had a desire to 
be in the Army,'' she said. ''He had planned to make it his career.''

Dixon said she last heard from her son last Friday, when he called 
during a funeral for her uncle to express his condolences.

Robert Dixon is survived by his wife of 1/1/2/ years, Rusty Rose-
Dixon, and two children. Funeral arrangements were incomplete but were 
likely to take place at the Gladwin High School gymnasium.

''I can't even convey to you how we're going to miss not having him 
here,'' his mother said. ''But I also know that he is a Christian and 
he is with the Lord now.''

Madam Speaker, Specialist Dixon served our country, Minnesota and the 
5th District with incredible distinction and made the ultimate 
sacrifice. I know I speak for you, the entire House of Representatives, 
and our country in sending my deepest condolences to Specialist Dixon's 
family and loved ones in their time of grief.
