---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `dec3f0176e9e310400541297dc53f4e9`
`Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Madam Speaker, what a dubious situation I 
find myself in, having to go behind the Honorable John Lewis, my 
colleague from Georgia, and to be in opposition to his view. But that 
is the position that I am in, and I will take on the responsibility.

Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to the Afghan War Powers 
Resolution which is before us today and give the reason why, although I 
do want to commend Representative Kucinich for enabling the House to 
have a debate on such an important issue, and I thank you for that.



But I cannot foresee any good coming out of a situation where we 
enable the Taliban to regain control over Afghanistan and to thus 
become a safe haven for terrorist recruitment, development, and 
deployment. I'm concerned that passage of this resolution would be an 
extraordinary usurpation of the power of the Commander in Chief in 
favor of a Congress where petty, partisan politics have lately been 
trumping policy.

Our strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan is achieving some promising 
successes. Pakistan is increasingly cooperating against militants 
within its


border and our military campaigns in Afghanistan are routing the 
Taliban from their strongholds while decimating Taliban and al Qaeda 
leadership. The President clearly stated that he would bring focus to 
our efforts in Afghanistan and he would seek to improve conditions 
prior to drawing down U.S. forces. Passage of this resolution would 
prevent him from implementing that strategy and force a premature 
withdrawal.

Madam Speaker, let me be clear. My intent is always to oppose war. I 
believe that the President shares that instinct. However, I oppose this 
resolution, not because I support war, but because this resolution is 
ill-timed and ill-conceived. Now is not the time for Congress to start 
a constitutional turf war. I find the premise of this resolution to be 
flawed at the outset. Remember, we have authorized ongoing operations 
in Afghanistan, and we are having enough trouble managing our ordinary 
legislative duties as it is. Let the President execute the strategy he 
said he would implement and which is yielding positive results. Passage 
of this resolution would send a message to the world that our 
President's authority to conduct foreign policy has weakened in favor 
of a Congress that bickers over arcane Senate rules when major policy 
decisions are left hanging in the balance.

After too many years wasted in Iraq, an unfocused deployment of our 
troops in Afghanistan, this President has finally chosen to use the 
authority of Congress to provide a focus on the real threat. I'm happy 
to hear Republicans saying that the President is doing a good job, and 
I urge my colleagues to oppose this resolution.