---
---

# IRAQ
## `ded63131631e28d378f85bd0bbd9165c`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Madam President, tonight I believe we have 
seen the introduction of a resolution which not only has had bipartisan 
support in its prior form but will receive very strong bipartisan 
support in its current form, as amended.

I rise to support this resolution for a number of reasons. I think it 
is important that we continue to support our troops in the field and 
those who support the troops across the world. I think it is important 
that we thank them for their service and that we make it very clear 
that this resolution does not impair their ability to move forward in 
their command.

It is also important to point out that while some of the cosponsors 
haven't had the opportunity to review this, it is being circulated to 
them so that they do have the opportunity to review it. And I am sure 
they will become cosponsors with the new resolution.

It is important to point out that in this resolution, benchmarks are 
included that I believe will help break the cycle of dependence in Iraq 
by empowering and requiring the authority of the Iraqi Government and 
the responsibility of the Iraqi Government to take a greater role in 
the battle in Iraq, particularly as it relates to Baghdad. We generally 
believe that it is inappropriate for our troops to intercede in the 
battle between the Sunnis and the Shias on a sectarian basis in battles 
that are of a similar nature that


certainly do involve sectarian violence. There is a greater role for 
the Iraqi Government and the Iraqi military. This resolution in its 
present form will assure the assuming of that greater role, that 
greater responsibility by the Iraqi Government and certainly by the 
Iraqi Army.

It is a pleasure for me to introduce and thank our cosponsor, the 
Senator from Maine, Ms. Collins.