# WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `dede32d6b3ca23781b7c64aa6b5d7015`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I also want to thank my colleagues for the bipartisan spirit of 
support for this bill.

I want to just add a few more names to the record, in the remaining 
time that I have available, of courageous whistleblowers. These are not 
hypothetical situations we are talking about.

One of them, Richard Levernier, was employed at the Department of 
Energy for 22 years and was in charge of testing security at U.S. 
nuclear weapons facilities. Working through normal DOE channels, he 
tried for years to get his superiors to address security weaknesses 
that might allow terrorists to successfully assemble and detonate a 
nuclear device at one of the facilities. But his superiors declined to 
acknowledge that vulnerabilities existed.

When he faxed two unclassified Inspector General reports to the 
press, DOE suspended his security clearance. At the time he was 2 years 
away from retirement and eligible for a full pension. After he filed a 
lawsuit against DOE for unjust termination, the Office of Special 
Counsel conducted an investigation and concluded that the harassment 
against Levernier constituted a systematically illegal reprisal. The 
OSC also found a substantial likelihood that his underlying charges 
were correct.

Another brave individual, Russell Tice, a former intelligence agent 
at the National Security Agency, worked for 20 years in special access 
programs known as ''black world programs and operations.'' He had his 
security clearance revoked in May, 2005, after alerting his superiors 
of suspicious activity by a coworker. NSA later dismissed him after he 
raised questions about the legality of some NSA ''black world'' 
programs, including the eavesdropping by the Defense Department and the 
NSA on American citizens. Mr. Tice wanted to talk to Congress about 
what he feels are further abuses by the NSA, but has not been allowed 
to do so.

Specialist Samuel J. Provance's unit in Iraq was instructed to 
interrogate detainees in a way that he thought was immoral and 
inappropriate, and he told his superiors. Instead of investigating his 
claims, his superiors demoted him.

And, finally, Lieutenant Colonel Anthony Shaffer was demoted and his 
security clearance stripped after he made protected disclosures to the 
9/11 Commission about Able Danger, a pre-9/11 operation for combating 
al Qaeda, and explained that there were DOD and DIA failures regarding 
9/11.

This is not a hypothetical problem. Federal whistleblowers are being 
silenced, and instances of waste, fraud, and abuse are not being 
exposed. That is why I call on all my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.