# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `defd2ccb9f95639a41c258c0be0bfe77`
`Mr. LeMIEUX — 16 November 2009`

---


Mr. LeMIEUX. Mr. President, I am here to speak about the recent 
decision of the Obama administration to bring five terrorists allegedly 
responsible and who admitted being responsible for planning and 
executing the 9/11 attacks and having them tried in a criminal court in 
New York. This is the group of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed and four other 
alleged 9/11 plotters.

The reason I stand before you today is to ask you the question: Why? 
Why are we bringing enemy combatants, terrorists, to trial in a civil 
venue in New York? The decision of the Attorney General does not make 
sense to me. It is not sound in terms of our historical precedent for 
these types of hearings, and it puts our national security at risk for 
the future.

Criminal trials for terrorists are different and should be different 
than criminal trials of those who commit crimes in this country. After 
all, we afford our citizens who commit crimes the presumption of 
innocence. It is part of the bargain we have with our citizens, that we 
will not presume them guilty. We afford them rights--rights that are 
set forth in our Bill of Rights, rights that are guaranteed 
constitutionally. We do not guarantee these rights for people who are 
not U.S. citizens. More importantly, we do not guarantee these rights 
for terrorists who attack our country in an act of war.

Right now, we are fighting this war in two theaters--in Afghanistan 
and Iraq. These are enemy combatants. They are not U.S. citizens. They 
were not resident in the United States when they committed this crime.

I wish to go through the rights we afford the criminally accused in a 
normal prosecution in this country and show why they are not suited for 
a terrorist.

We extend the right to remain silent; the right to have that silence 
not used against you; the right to choose between a public trial before 
a judge or jury; the right to summon and compel the attendance of 
witnesses to testify on the accused's behalf; the right to a speedy 
trial; the right to see all the evidence collected against the accused; 
the right to learn how the evidence was collected; and the right to 
appeal not only the verdict but almost every ruling a judge performs in 
the case.

Why are we extending these rights to enemy combatants who killed 
nearly 3,000 innocents on 9/11 through an act of war? They did not wear 
a military uniform, and the planes they flew were not the planes of 
foreign countries with foreign flags. But there is no difference 
between the war we are in with them and wars we have had against other 
countries.

The precedent of what may happen when we afford these rights to these 
terrorists is not good. Former Attorney General Michael Mukasey talked 
about what happened when we tried terrorists in U.S. criminal courts. 
During the trial of Ramzi Yousef, the mastermind of the 1993 World 
Trade Center bombing, a part of testimony which we thought was 
innocuous at the time that came out in the public courtroom talked 
about the delivery of a cell phone battery. It tipped off the 
terrorists still at large that one of their communication links had 
been compromised. Mukasey said that link, which had been monitored by 
the government and provided enormous, valuable intelligence, was 
immediately shut down and lost in our war on terror.

Mukasey also noted that ''In the multidefendant terrorism prosecution 
of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, [also known as ''the Blind Sheik'' for his 
role in the 1993 World Trade Center bombings] . . . the government was 
required to disclose, as it is routinely in conspiracy cases,'' the 
names of the unindicted coconspirators, one of whom was Osama bin 
Laden.

We are giving information in these public trials, which were never 
meant for terrorism, which was never meant for people we are at war 
with, that may be used against us in a future terrorist attack.

Why are we doing this? What is the purpose? We have military 
tribunals to perform this function. This is not something new to this 
country. We have been using military tribunals since the time of George 
Washington. He used it during the American Revolution to deal with 
British spies. None other than Franklin Delano Roosevelt used them in 
World War II. We had eight German agents who sneaked ashore with the 
intent to plant explosives at railroad facilities and bridges. 
Roosevelt used military tribunals to try and convict those Germans who 
came across in World War II, and the Supreme Court upheld it. These 
military tribunals are not something new. They have to be done right. 
They have to give due process.

We used them against the driver of Osama bin Laden, and one of the 
charges was dismissed against him. So they are a fair process.

Why are we bringing the 9/11 terrorists to a criminal court in New 
York? These are not bank robbers. These are people with whom we are at 
war. Why are we affording them extra rights? Why are we affording them 
extra rights when the information that is revealed during the discovery 
process in Federal court may compromise our national security and lead 
to additional terrorist attacks? Why are we doing this? It doesn't make 
any sense to me. It defies history, and it is going to present and 
possibly provide future challenges to our national security.

Finally, let's think about what these trials are going to be like. We 
are giving these terrorists an international reality show where they 
are going to be able to have a platform each and every day to talk 
about their war against our country and our values. I wish to quote 
from David Brooks in his column in the Washington Post. He said:




 Terrorism is an act of propaganda. So now [Khalid Sheik 


 Mohammed] gets to commit the original act of propaganda, 


 which was the attack, and now he's going to have a long 


 trial, an international reality show, which will be followed 


 here, but more importantly, followed around the world. So 


 he's getting a second bite of the apple at spreading his 


 propaganda message.


What happens if because of all of the rights that are afforded to a 
person who is tried in a criminal court in the United States, what 
happens if because one of those rights and all of the presumptions 
there are against being found guilty, presumptions that we afford to 
our citizens because they are part of our constitutional democracy, 
what happens if Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the mastermind of 9/11, is 
acquitted on a technicality? Then what? What are we going to do with 
him? Are we going to release him? Are we going to let him off on the 
streets in New York? I don't think so. Then we are going to hold him 
again. What does that say to the international community? He had a 
trial, he was acquitted, but we are still going to hold him because we 
think he is a threat. That is going to backfire on this administration.

In conclusion, I cannot understand why we are doing this. I cannot 
understand, when we have a historical precedent of a military tribunal 
that we have used since the time of George Washington, that we used 
during World War II, why we are going to bring these terrorists who 
killed or were responsible for killing nearly 3,000 innocents on 
September 11, why we are going to try them in Federal court as 
criminals and not understand what they truly are, which are terrorists 
with whom we are at war.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.