---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `df074823e1eb34c1892fc743526e4276`
`Mr. HENSARLING — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I 
thank him for his outstanding leadership on this floor and within the 
Republican Study Committee.

Mr. Speaker, I'm very happy to come to the floor today and debate 
this resolution with my fellow members of the Republican Study 
Committee. But if press reports are to be believed, I am disturbed by 
the reason that we are here, and that is, is this a poll driven 
resolution?

We all know that our Democratic colleagues now have one of the lowest 
congressional approval ratings in almost 50 years. We know they don't 
want to spend time on this floor debating how little has been achieved 
in their tenure, and perhaps they want to spend even less time talking 
about what they have achieved; the single largest tax increase in 
American history, a secret earmarking plan gone awry, and a spendorama, 
spending millions and millions on peanut storage, NASA and dairy 
products, put into a


bill to support our troops in harm's way.



Putting polls aside, why are we here? Make no mistake about it. What 
we are debating today is whether or not to declare defeat in Iraq, the 
battlefront in our war against radical Islam.

Everyone knows that fighting this battle in Iraq is costly, but 
losing this battle in Iraq is even costlier.

Mr. Speaker, sometimes life presents us with lousy options, but that 
is a reality with which we must deal. Iraq must be seen in the larger 
context of our war with radical Islam. The battle lines are drawn; and 
whether or not we like it, they are drawn in Iraq.

Don't take my word for it. Take the word of Osama bin Laden: ''The 
epicenter of these wars is Baghdad. Success in Baghdad will be success 
for the United States. Failure in Iraq is the failure of the United 
States. Their defeat in Iraq will mean defeat in all of their wars.'' 
And we have to soberly reflect upon the enemy that we are facing. 
Listen to the number two in al Qaeda, al Zawahiri: ''Al Qaeda has the 
right to kill 4 million Americans, 2 million of them children.''

Mr. Speaker, two of those children are my children. And I take this 
very, very seriously.

Al Qaeda has further vowed to expel the Americans from Iraq. They 
have vowed that they will ''launch a jihad wave to the secular 
countries neighboring Iraq.''

Again, this is the enemy we face and we face him foremost in Iraq. If 
we leave Iraq before subduing him, he will follow us here to our 
shores. And make no mistake about it. The consequences are immense. 
Read the National Intelligence Estimate. Read the report of the Iraq 
Study Group. Precipitous withdrawal declaring defeat will not end this 
war. Instead, it will make it worse. It will send it to neighboring 
countries. It may lead to genocide.

Now, I have listened to the debate of my colleagues carefully. Some 
still complain about the decision to go in. It's a moot point. Many 
want to complain about mistakes or incompetence of 3 years, 2 years, or 
perhaps 1 year ago that may or may not be accurate. Today they are 
irrelevant.

The question is what do we do now? We have a new commander. We have a 
new strategy. We have a report due in September. We have signs of hope. 
Let's give it a chance. There is too much at stake to declare defeat 
today.