---
---

# TRIBUTE TO COMMAND SERGEANT MAJOR STEPHEN D. BLAKE
## `df07ee9cadf2bb3499f1e332e64eaf28`
`Mrs. CAPITO — 24 September 2008`

---


Mrs. CAPITO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to extend congratulations to 
Command Sergeant Major Stephen D. Blake who became the second command 
sergeant major of the U.S. Army Sustainment Command on June 19th, 2008 
at ASC headquarters at Rock Island IL. CSM Blake serves as primary 
advisor to the ASC Commanding General on all matters pertaining to 
enlisted personnel assigned to the Command, particularly in areas 
related to their training and development and to the quality of life 
and well-being of soldiers and their families. He also responds to the 
concerns of civilian and contractor employees of the Command.

During his career of 26 years of distinguished service in the United 
States Army Command Sergeant Major Blake has served in a number of key 
enlisted leadership positions. He has had tours of duty in Germany and 
Korea as well as combat tours in Southwest Asia during both Operations 
Desert Shield/Desert Storm and Operation Iraqi Freedom, and a tour in 
Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom.

In 2003, Blake graduated from class 53 of the U.S. Army Sergeants 
Major Academy at Fort Bliss, Texas. His military training included the 
Air Assault School, Primary Leadership Development Course, and First 
Sergeants Course. He was named the distinguished graduate from his 
class in both the Basic and Advanced Non-Commissioned Officers Courses. 
He also holds an Associates Degree in Business Management from 
Excelsior College.

Command Sergeant Major Stephen D. Blake developed SOP, using the 
Center for Army Lessons Learned Web site to gather the most recent 
tactics, techniques, and procedures used by units operating in Iraq. 
The SOP difficulty and intensity of the training was a confidence 
builder for Operation Iraqi Freedom for veterans and new soldiers 
alike.

Command Sergeant Major Stephen D. Blake's awards and decorations 
include the Bronze Star (three awards); the Legion of Merit; the 
Defense Meritorious Service Medal; the Meritorious Service Medal (five 
awards); the Army Commendation Medal (nine awards); the Army 
Achievement Medal (nine awards); the Good Conduct Medal (eight awards); 
the National Defense Service Medal with Star; the Southwest Asia 
Service Medal with three stars; the Iraq, Afghanistan, Global War on 
Terrorism and Korean Defense service Medals; the NCO Professional 
Development Ribbon with Numeral Four; the Army Service Ribbon; the 
Overseas Service Ribbon with Numeral Three; the NATO Medal; Kuwait 
Liberation Medals from the governments of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait; the 
Air Assault Badge; and three Meritorious Unit Commendations. He is also 
a recipient of the Ordnance Order of Samuel Sharpe.

Command Sergeant Major Stephen D. Blake is a native of Tyler 
Mountain, WV. Blake and his wife, Karen Marie Riley of Ohio, are the 
parents of two children, Amber and Joshua.



Madam Speaker, it is because of soldiers like Command Sergeant Major 
Stephen D. Blake that we will achieve victory in Iraq. With dedication 
and determination of our armed forces is what will protect our great 
nation. Madame Speaker and colleagues, please join me in honoring 
Command Sergeant Major Stephen D. Blake as a true American. I am proud 
to call Stephen a fellow mountaineer.
