# SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF A NATIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR DAY
## `df22a5a0521a9d91ba7c2954e816fdfe`
`Mr. SKELTON — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

Today I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 47, which I 
introduced to recognize the extraordinary heroism and sacrifice of the 
Nation's


Medal of Honor recipients and to increase America's awareness of the 
significance and meaning of the Medal of Honor among our American 
citizens.

I want to thank my colleague on the House Armed Services Committee, 
the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Jones) for being here in support 
of this issue this afternoon.

The Congressional Medal of Honor is our Nation's highest military 
award for valor in action against an enemy that can be bestowed on any 
member of the Armed Forces.

Since the medal was created in 1861, more than 3,400 individuals who 
have served our Nation in uniform have been awarded the Medal of Honor.

The first medal was established by the United States Navy to 
recognize sailors and marines who distinguish themselves in war. 
President Abraham Lincoln signed Public Resolution 82 into law, and 
thus the first medal of valor was created. The Army shortly followed in 
1862 by establishing a Medal of Honor to recognize commissioned 
officers and privates who distinguished themselves by their gallantry 
in action. The Medal of Honor became a permanent decoration in 1863. 
The first award was given to Army Assistant Surgeon Bernard J.D. Irwin 
for his bravery in rescuing 60 soldiers at Apache Pass, Arizona, in 
1861.

It is very interesting, Mr. Speaker, that a Medal of Honor was 
awarded a Union soldier years after the 1861 Battle of Lexington, 
Missouri, my hometown, for his gallantry in helping to retake the 
Anderson House, which was the hospital at the time of that battle, 
September 18, 19 and 20, 1861. His name was Palmer.

The current conflict in Iraq sadly has posthumously added two heroic 
and courageous individuals to the rolls, Sergeant First Class Paul 
Smith of the United States Army, and Corporal Jason Dunham of the 
United States Marines. These two individuals continue to epitomize the 
recipients of the Medal of Honor, whose uncommon valor and 
extraordinary bravery are standard characteristics.



It is interesting to note also, Mr. Speaker, that in the history of 
the medal, 19 men received a second award. 14 of them received two 
separate medals for separate actions, and one was awarded to a woman. 
Of the more than 3,400 medals awarded, 266 of those were awarded for 
action during World War II, and 154 were awarded for action during the 
Vietnam conflict. Today there are only 111 living recipients of the 
Medal of Honor. America is rapidly losing its greatest and true heroes.

It is also important to note that when Missouri's President, Harry 
Truman, awarded the Medal of Honor to a soldier at the end of the 
Second World War, he said he would rather have this medal than being 
president.

The resolution before the House seeks to recognize the heroism and 
sacrifice of the Nation's Medal of Honor recipients, and to urge the 
establishment of a National Medal of Honor Day to ensure that all 
Americans continue to celebrate and to honor the contributions and 
ideals that the Medal of Honor recipients exemplify.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the support of this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.