---
---

# None
## `df258aaa21aca48f78beb9d17e2c924f`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 15 July 2008`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. 
Con. Res. 295, which takes the initiative in extending the appreciation 
of Congress to both the members of the United States Armed Forces and 
their families.

First, I want to commend the chief sponsor, Mr. Bilirakis of Florida, 
for his great efforts in introducing this important bill.

As a former member of our United States Armed Forces, I want to 
personally convey my gratitude to Congressman Bilirakis and all of the 
co-sponsors for bringing this vital resolution forth. It is an example 
of the Congress' dedication to those serving our country around the 
world and our efforts to assist their families in various ways.

Mr. Speaker, with increased conflicts around the world needing our 
armed forces' attention, the amount of our active troops has increased 
exponentially. According to the Department of Defense (DOD), we 
currently have over 2 million personnel serving. Of that number, there 
are more than 700,000 households with at least one parent deployed on 
active military duty. While deployed, the remaining family provides 
much needed support to their military members through correspondence 
and packages. Yet, many times, these families do not have the resources 
to provide the full support they desire. Fortunately, the Department of 
Defense offers assistance through numerous programs. For example, the 
Military Homefront aids service members, whether active or retired, and 
their families with DOD Quality of Life programs. Even with the 
available programs, more programs are needed in order to provide for 
both the immediate and extended families of our current and past 
military personnel.

In response to this growing need, Congressman Bilirakis introduced H. 
Con. Res. 295 on February 13, 2008. This includes not only the support 
of the United States Armed Forces, but also support of their families 
through any physical and emotional ordeals that may arise as their 
loved ones devote their lives to their country. As the Representative 
for American Samoa, I realize the great importance of supporting our 
military families. The Samoan people take great pride in serving our 
nation and have shown it through our high recruitment numbers. Yet 
regrettably, we also have the highest casualty rate per capita. Just a 
few weeks ago, a son of American Samoa, Lt. Col. Max Galea'i was killed 
while supporting combat operations in Iraq's Al Anbar Province. Last 
week, I was honored to accompany Max's family, his wife Evelyn and four 
beautiful children, to American Samoa where Max was laid to rest. The 
42-year old commander of the 2nd Battalion, 3rd Marines from the Marine 
Corps Base Hawaii represented the epitome of a proud military member, 
and for his dedication and for the dedication of all our service men 
and women and their families, we must support this bill.

For the sake of their commitment and sacrifice, we must honor our 
United States Armed Forces by supporting those most important to them, 
their families. I urge my colleagues to pass H. Con. Res. 295, and I 
thank you for your support of this very important resolution.
