# TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT GENERAL FRANKLIN L. ``BUSTER'' HAGENBECK
## `df25fcb89895948f3c486e14659eeceb`
`Mr. MARSHALL — 11 May 2010`

---


Mr. MARSHALL. Madam Speaker, it is with great pleasure that I rise 
today not only as the Representative of the 8th District of Georgia but 
also as the Chairman of the Board of Visitors to the United States 
Military Academy at West Point, to honor the service and 
accomplishments of Lieutenant General Franklin L. ''Buster'' Hagenbeck, 
the 57th Superintendent.

LTG Hagenbeck distinguished himself through exceptionally meritorious 
service to the Nation during more than thirty-nine years of active 
military service in peace and war, culminating as the Commanding 
General and 57th Superintendent of the United States Military Academy, 
West Point.

Madam Speaker, during LTG Hagenbeck's tenure as Superintendent, West 
Point was recognized as the number one college in the Nation by Forbes 
Magazine (2009) and the number one liberal arts college by US News and 
World Report (2010). West Point also won twenty-four national 
championships in athletics and earned twenty-eight competitive 
scholarships (Rhodes, Truman, Fulbright, East-West, Gates, and Rotary).

LTG Hagenbeck instituted the first significant change to the cadet 
program since 1987 by establishing a measured leadership development 
experience during the summer of senior year. In only one year, he 
achieved a substantial improvement in the battlefield tested leadership 
qualities of West Point graduates based on feedback from battalion 
commanders. Through the establishment of Centers of Excellence at West 
Point, LTG


Hagenbeck also developed an integration between Army applied problem 
sets and West Point research and intellectual capital, drawing from 
across West Point to stand up the National Military Academy of 
Afghanistan and graduate the first class into the Afghan Army in 2009.

Madam Speaker, LTG Hagenbeck commanded West Point while our Nation 
was at war. And it is well known within military circles that field 
commanders competed to bring his graduating cadets into their units. 
This is testimony both to the quality of the graduates and to LTG 
Hagenbeck's exemplary leadership as the 57th Superintendent of West 
Point.

On behalf of the Board of Visitors to West Point, I thank General 
Hagenbeck for his service. And on a personal note, let me take this 
opportunity to formally congratulate Buster and West Point's 1970 speed 
football team for thoroughly stomping me and my fellow Princeton 
teammates. That memorable whipping cost me a dollar a point on a bet 
with my father, MG Robert C. Marshall, a 1942 West Point grad.
