---
---

# MAKE IT IN AMERICA
## `df26e28af7c8e3c6262755a69dc8c62b`
`Mr. KAGEN — 28 July 2010`

---


Mr. KAGEN. That was the stimulus bill. More and more people would be 
out of work. We stabilized State governments. We stabilized private 
corporations like road builders, like asphalt people, like bridge 
builders. We stabilized State and local governments to make sure that 
the police would be there when you dial 911. We stabilized fire 
departments to make sure if you're on fire at home, help will be on the 
way. But no, somebody over there has got people confused and angry that 
somehow it just didn't work.

Look, many economists have said that the economic stimulus bill that 
we passed last year simply wasn't big enough to get us all the way out 
of the economic ditch that we're in, but make no mistake about it. The 
Democratic Party and all of us here in Congress who are voting ''yes'' 
for progress, we are cleaning up after the biggest elephant parade in 
American history. There is so much mess to clean up.

Now, I always told my patients that it would take you about as long 
to get better as it took you to get sick and to come into my office, 
and it's going to take us a while to work our way back into prosperity. 
We will succeed but people in America have an election coming up, and 
not to be electioneering, but you have to ask yourself the question: 
What would your life be like without the stimulus bill and having the 
police and firemen there when you need them? What would your children's 
life be like at school not to have a qualified educator and teacher in 
the room to help your children get that world-class education they're 
going to need to compete against unfair trade deals, as we have with 
Asia?

So the bill clearly worked and the testimony yesterday in the 
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee was a resounding ''yes.'' I 
asked each of the gentlemen there to testify, a hypothetical question: 
If you had been in Congress, knowing what you know now about how it 
benefited your company, would you have voted for the stimulus bill. 
Yes, yes, yes, yes, universally it has helped.

Now, where do we need to invest? Here in America. And when I ask my 
constituents I say, look, I'm your hired hand. I've got your tax 
dollars right here. Where should we build the next bridge, the next 
school, in the sands of Iraq, maybe in northern or southeastern 
Afghanistan? No, Doc, we need that invested here at home.

Our Nation's infrastructure is about $2.1 trillion behind. We need to 
build our bridges once again, our schools, our water treatment plants. 
Our hard-earned tax dollars are better invested here at home to grow 
the economy, to grow the jobs that we need, not on Wall Street but on 
Main Street, and the real contest here is who are we listening to.

Now, if the C-SPAN camera pans around, they will see a whole lot of 
empty chairs, but there are three Members standing up having a 
conversation about in which direction we're going to be moving. But you 
have to ask the question: who are these other gentlemen and ladies 
listening to? I'm listening to Elaine from Peshtigo. You're listening 
to people back home from California, from Ohio, and this is a painful 
job. This is a painful job because progress is so slow.

But be confident, America. We're beginning to make progress. We're 
moving our economy forward and up. We need to move up, not down.