# JOB CREATION THROUGH ENTREPRENEURSHIP ACT OF 2009
## `df394ee64d7c4c48167431f7ee86376f`
`Mrs. DAHLKEMPER — 20 May 2009`

---


Mrs. DAHLKEMPER. Mr. Chairman, I rise today as a cosponsor and strong 
supporter of the Job Creation Through Entrepreneurship Act of 2009. And 
I want to thank the chairwoman, the ranking member and the subcommittee 
chair and Republican ranking member on the subcommittee for this 
bipartisan effort.

A strong small business community is critical to rebuilding our 
economy, to create the good-paying jobs that stay here in the United 
States. However, as a small business owner myself, I know firsthand 
that America's entrepreneurs often need assistance, whether it be 
accessing capital, procuring contracts or marketing their firms.

Entrepreneurial development programs have a proven track record of 
successfully providing businesses with this type of assistance. 
However, they have not been modernized in over a decade to meet today's 
small business needs. This is especially important for groups that are 
underrepresented in the business world, such as women, minorities, and 
veterans.

For example, the Veterans Business Outreach Program is designed to 
provide entrepreneurial development services, such as business 
training, counseling, mentoring, and referrals for eligible veterans 
owning or considering starting a small business.

It was my amendment in the Small Business Committee that will allow 
members of the National Guard and Reserve to also access this important 
program. As we have seen from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, these 
brave men and women can be deployed for months and then struggle when 
they return home to their business or job.

The Job Creation Through Entrepreneurship Act improves current 
programs. In this case, it gives all those who have bravely served our 
country in uniform the tools to start and grow their own business.

Mr. Chairman, we are here today because we understand that small 
business is critical, not only to creating jobs, but to driving our 
Nation's economic recovery. Small business development and growth is 
crucial to aiding our economic recovery in this Nation.

For this reason, in the middle of National Small Business Week, I 
urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the Job Creation Through 
Entrepreneurship Act.