---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `df44dc525670360854cfb1e8d368d9f7`
`Mr. DORGAN — 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Let me finish my comments. If I have time, I will be 
happy to engage. This represents a legal fiction, 12,748 corporations 
say that this is their home. No, it is not. This is a playhouse for tax 
avoidance. That is what this is about. They get to run their income 
through here so they don't to have pay taxes to the U.S. Government. 
They want all the opportunities that come with being an American except 
the responsibility to pay taxes.

Thousands of companies take up residence in tax haven countries for 
the purpose of avoiding taxes. Many other companies use entirely 
different, yet legal, tax avoidance schemes. One example is the sale of 
a German sewage system in Bochum, Germany, that nets Wachovia Bank $175 
million in tax savings. I don't even understand how the transaction 
works. Does someone walk into an investment banking firm and say: Do 
you have a sewer section here, or do you have a sewer specialist I 
could talk to? Because I would like to avoid taxes by investing in a 
German sewer system. Maybe the receptionist says: We have a section 
over here in our investment banking firm that actually specializes in 
foreign sewers. Wachovia apparently found one. They saved $175 million. 
Does that mean they used the sewage system? No. Does it mean they 
actually have a need for it? Does it actually change hands? No, it is 
still underground in Germany. What it does is, it allows this company 
to avoid paying U.S. taxes.

How about an American company leasing a city hall in Germany? This is 
a town hall in Germany, leased by an American company. For what 
purpose? To avoid paying U.S. taxes. Wouldn't it be great if folks down 
the block or up the street or out on the farm who have to pay taxes in 
this country could say: You know what, I have a new idea. You and I are 
going to buy a sewage system in England. People would say: Are you 
nuts? That is what is happening in corporate boardrooms.

Another example is leasing transaction involving streetcars in 
Germany. An American corporation wants to operate German streetcars. 
Why? Because they enjoy riding in streetcars? No. They will never get 
in them. It is because they particularly want to avoid paying U.S. 
taxes.

In Chicago, they put together something called a 911 emergency call 
system. They put that together. Guess what: When Chicago shoppers 
hunted for bargains a few days after Christmas last year, two big 
financial firms landed their own sweet deal. FleetBoston Financial and 
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking bought Chicago's 911 emergency call system. No, 
Chicago was not in the throes of privatization, the story says from the 
Wall Street Journal. This was companies again deciding: We would like 
to buy assets we have no need for that belong to the public, and what 
we would like to do is use them to avoid paying U.S. taxes.

That is unbelievable to me. I would think every single Member of the 
Senate would look at this and say: That makes me sick, and it has to 
stop--not tomorrow; no, we are not going to begin to wean off this 
system--but, right now, we are going to say that nobody is going to be 
able to buy a foreign sewer system in order to decide they are not 
going to pay U.S. taxes.

Go to any restaurant in this country, any small town cafe in this 
country, and sit around and order a cup of coffee and ask the folks you 
are sitting with: Do you think this should be allowed? They would look 
at you and say: Are you out of your mind?

Well, the reason I talk about this is because this is in this budget 
to be shut down. Senator Conrad has said--and I have offered amendments 
on the floor of the Senate--we are going to shut this kind of thing 
down. The other side kind of laughs and scoffs at this and says: Well, 
you can't shut that down.

I know, in fact, no one will stand up, if I ask: Will someone today 
come over to the floor of the Senate and stand up and say: Do you know 
what? Count me in. I am a big fan of having U.S. companies buy foreign 
sewer systems. Sign my name to it. Give me credit for it. Nobody will 
do that. It is kind of in the dark of the night that all this tax 
policy gets made.

That is what my colleague says in this budget: Let's begin to shut 
that down. Let's begin to collect the revenues, reduce the Federal 
deficits.

These deficits--at some point somebody is going to have to pay them. 
This administration inherited a very large budget surplus. I stood on 
the floor of the Senate and said maybe we ought to be a little 
conservative here, and the President and his minions said: No, no, no. 
Let's decide that we want to give it all back, despite the fact we did 
not have it yet. It was 10 years of projected surplus.

Guess what. In a matter of months, we found out we were in a 
recession. Then we had 9/11. Then we had a war in Afghanistan. Then we 
had a war in Iraq. Huge surpluses were turned into huge deficits and 
much more spending for a war, for which the President said: Oh, by the 
way, we are not going to pay for that. We are going to ask that all of 
it be funded with zero requests in the budget because we are going to 
send you emergency requests, and you can add it to the deficit. So we 
send soldiers to war, and when they come back, they can help pay the 
cost of the war because we are not going to do it.

That is what is wrong with this fiscal policy. We were on a road to 
nowhere and a road to real trouble, and finally we have a budget that 
begins to force change. Is it going to happen overnight? No. It is 
going to take some time. But this budget is a budget that moves us 
finally in the right direction.

I commend Senator Conrad and all those who worked on it. I am proud 
to be part of it and will be proud to vote for it.

Madam President, how much time remains?