# None
## `df4c5fb7c237062c669e7e59aa5594a3`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Congressman Hastings, I am so glad that you did 
come down and that you did share your sentiments. And you are right, 
the point that we are trying to make here is that we are going to have 
to bring an end to this war as we see it now.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is also important for all of the Members on 
both sides of the aisle to realize that, especially under the pay-as-
you-go philosophy that we have adopted as the House in the majority and 
the Senate has adopted, that things are going to be hard back home as 
it relates to getting Federal appropriations back to our districts.

There is really no need for us to be here if we can't bring resources 
back, if we can't represent the people that woke up early one Tuesday 
morning for representation to provide not only voice here in Congress 
but also action. And without money, it is hard to bring about that kind 
of action.

I think it is also, Mr. Speaker, very important that Members do note 
that many of the U.S. Governors, and I am not just talking about 
Democratic Governors, mainly Republican Governors, that have raised the 
issue with the Federal commitment to the States, the devolution of 
taxation that has been taking place over the last 6 years, especially 
under the Bush administration.

I just want to break that down a little further where taxes, quote/
unquote, have been cut here for the very wealthy here in Washington 
prior to the Democratic Congress getting here, and that responsibility 
with the lack of


funding, Leave No Child Left Behind. I am not cutting the student loan 
rates in half, which we have already passed in our Six in '06 budget. 
But in the Republican Congress, those States had the balance. Here, 
under the 109th, under the Republican Congress, they could continue to 
raise that foreign-held debt that I talked about. They could just say, 
well, let's just put it on a credit card and leave it for the next 
generation and this generation to pay for it. But we decided here, in 
the Democratic leadership and society, that we are going to move in a 
responsible way and not leaning on the backs of our children and our 
families that exist now as we compete against other countries, not only 
in the area of technology, but also in the area of financial strength.

And I think that the posture that we are in now, Mr. Speaker, of what 
I showed on that chart on foreign-held debt, this chart illustrates the 
posture that we are in right now: $1.19 trillion. And these are not my 
numbers; these are the numbers from the U.S. Treasury. So this is not 
something that I sat down my staff and said, Let's see what looks good 
or sounds good, because we know as the 30-something Working Group that 
I would like to add my colleague here Mr. Hastings that I am a part of 
the ''something'' of the 30-something. But I think it is important for 
us to point at that and take note to it.

Now, if you are a conservative Democrat, Republican, Independent, you 
have to have issue with fiscal irresponsibility. If you are someone 
that feels very strongly as it relates to the supporting of the troops, 
I think it is important that you pay very close attention to the amount 
of money that is being spent in Iraq with the lack of accountability, 
only now that the Congress started holding hearings under the 
Democratic-controlled House, holding hearings to check the issues and 
the questions of the no-bid contracts, the lack of oversight over the 
years. There are a number of things that are coming to light now, Mr. 
Speaker, because the committees are having committee hearings, 
subcommittees are having hearings asking the tough questions, let's 
just say questions in general about the war in Iraq.

I don't want to be in a position, Mr. Speaker, to say, I told you so. 
I want to be in the position to say that we were able to prevent the 
taxpayer dollar from being spent in an irresponsible way. There are a 
number of things that have taken place. I am looking forward, Mr. 
Speaker and Members, going to Iraq in the next 6 weeks prior to the 
September 15 report to bring about my own assessment of what is going 
on there on the ground.

Mr. Speaker, I went in my district to the Federal Reserve Unit of the 
Combat Engineer Unit 841 that is actually being deployed into Iraq and 
will be there at the time that I visit Iraq. My talk with them, Mr. 
Speaker, was that I hope that this would be their last deployment to 
Iraq, and something that we need to hold close to us.



And now, Mr. Speaker, I want to point this out because when I talk 
about a bipartisan approach, I want to make sure that we talk fact not 
fiction here on the floor, and I don't want in any way to paint some 
sort of butterscotch cloud world.

But I think it's important that we take issue with the fact that this 
House and the Senate passed legislation that had benchmarks in it, 
legislation that had redeployment dates in it, legislation that had an 
end date for combat troops to patrol the streets of Iraq and other 
areas, and leaving that responsibility up to the Iraqi Government.

I'm mentioning combat troops because I think it's important that we 
pay very close attention to it. Right now, as we speak, Mr. Speaker, 
there are troops right now, marines, soldiers, other branches of the 
armed services that are going through door-to-door checks, not only in 
Baghdad but throughout Iraq on behalf of the safety of the people of 
those towns or province or what have you.

And every door we kick in, Mr. Speaker, because, as you hear, the 
President doesn't speak of coalition anymore because the coalition is 
gone. The coalition, in their own way, as small as the coalition was, 
found a way to start redeploying their troops out of combat into the 
periphery that we speak of so much to provide support where their 
troops will not be in harm's way, where their money commitment will not 
be at the level of our money commitment of the numbers that I called 
off a little earlier. And I think that is very, very important for us 
to pay very close attention to that.

Mr. Speaker, I think it's important to note that when this House 
acted, and we passed legislation, and the Senate acted and they passed 
legislation in a bipartisan way, before that bill could even get bound 
to take to the White House, the President called some of our Republican 
colleagues down to the White House. They had a lunch and they came out 
of the White House. And it's not one Democrat in this picture here, and 
said that we're going to make sure that the President is able to 
withstand an override of his veto by the Congress.

Now, I'm not judging Members for going down to the White House and 
saying that. But I just want to make sure, because I believe that a 
number of Members have gone back to their districts and, you know, I'm 
not trying to call any names or party affiliation, but I'm just telling 
you, not one Democrat went down to the White House to stand with the 
President on his troop escalation plan.

But I think the November election was all about a new direction. And 
there's a difference between making sure that the men and women have 
what they need while they're in harm's way. There's a difference when 
it comes down to the fact that we here in the Congress have to put 
forth policy and parameters on the taxpayer dollars to make sure that 
it's being spent appropriately.

You heard Mr. Hastings, who's a member of the Intelligence Committee, 
also is involved in many of the European talks and is a leader in one 
of the largest parliamentary councils in Europe that were a part of the 
coalition that made his statements about what we know and why we're not 
bringing about the accountability that's needed.

I hold this picture up because I want to discourage Members from 
going to the White House on behalf of party. And I think it's important 
that we look at it from that standpoint. As I come in for a closing, 
Mr. Speaker, as we proceed over the next week and a half, we're going 
to spend many hours here on this floor. We're going to have a number of 
amendments. Tomorrow, as we mark up and start to put together the 
Children's Health Insurance Plan in the Ways and Means Committee, there 
will be a number of amendments, as we start looking at the Medicaid and 
Medicare benefits, who's going to get what when and how it's going to 
happen, there are going to be a number of amendments. And it's nothing 
wrong with amendments and dialogue and discourse.

But I believe that the issues that we have to tackle as a Congress, 
we're going to need that Republican bipartisan support, along with this 
Democratic leadership.

Minimum wage never would have been increased if it wasn't for the 
leadership of the Speaker and a number of the Democratic Members that 
held to their guns to make sure that everyday people that punch in and 
out, Mr. Speaker, while we're here on the floor, those individuals that 
are bussing tables, those individuals that are cleaning offices, those 
individuals that are working shift work, as a security officer or as an 
individual that's trying to provide for their families.

And even for salaried workers, Mr. Speaker, I think it's important 
when you look at the increase in minimum wage, it helps salaried 
workers because they'll make more money and they will be able to pay 
more for health insurance, additional insurance if they're insurance at 
their job doesn't provide what they need; and it also takes a number of 
families over the poverty line.

But as we look at this, I think it's important, there's only so many 
times that Republican Members can go down to the White House and say, 
Mr. President, I stand with you, versus standing with those individuals 
that have said that they want something overwhelmingly, like the 
minimum wage and other areas. We still had Members that voted against 
the increase in minimum wage, which I can't understand, still today.



So with that, Mr. Speaker, I look forward to continuing to share with 
the Members, not only the costs in Iraq, but also our responsibility 
here in Congress. I'm glad that, from the Speaker on down to the newest 
Member of Congress, that we have a philosophy that we have to push 
forward, that we have to make sure the American people not only have 
voice but action in this House.

I encourage my Republican colleagues to be along with us in that 
spirit and have the kind of paradigm shift that we need to put this 
country on the right track and to make sure that our men and women have 
what they need.

And I can tell you, from the families that I saw at the 841 who were 
moving on into Iraq, from what I picked up, if you want to help the 
troops, let's bring them home. And that's what it's all about.
