---
---

# IN RECOGNITION OF JAMES F. RODES, JR.
## `df50cf24dc9e94def704976ff9fad92c`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 12 February 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor CDR James F. 
Rodes, Jr., for his exceptional service in the Cleveland police force 
and the United States Navy Reserve.

James attended Cuyahoga Community College while serving as a patrol 
officer and detective in the fourth district, graduating in 1986 with a 
degree in law enforcement and criminal justice. He worked his way 
through the ranks, starting as a patrol officer and team leader of the 
Dive Search and Recovery Team, and continuing his career as a detective 
in the Fugitive Unit, Accident Investigation Unit, Bureau of Special 
Investigations, and Homicide Unit. He retired on November 1, 2007, 
after 26 years of service.

James's distinguished career is also defined by his success in the 
Navy Reserve. He entered active duty on October 12, 1971, and was 
initiated Gunner's Mate Chief Petty Officer in 1985. He was a salvage 
diving officer in Cleveland, a company commander in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, a commander in Japan and Akron, Ohio, and also served in 
Iraq from September 2006 to February 2007.

Commander Rodes spent his childhood in the Cleveland area and now 
resides in Brooklyn, Ohio, with his wife Diane. He is the proud father 
of two daughters, Lieutenant Stacy R. Meyers and Melissa A. Hazek.

Madam Speaker and colleagues, please join me in honoring Commander 
James F. Rodes, Jr., a man whose exemplary service in both the United 
States Navy and the Cleveland Police Department will serve as an 
inspiration for generations to come.
