---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `df53aedf379f7e75cdb0a7884dafe258`
`Mr. McCAIN — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I begin by echoing the remarks of the 
chairman of the committee that we appreciate the partnership with the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs, a partnership led by Senator Akaka and 
Senator Craig. We have worked closely together in trying to come up 
with one of the most aptly titled pieces of legislation that I have 
ever been involved in, the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act.

It is important to point out that we are making this part of the 
Defense authorization bill, which we believe has a very good chance of 
being signed by the President, as the quickest way to get this 
legislation enacted. There was a great deal of discussion back and 
forth as to whether it should stand by itself or should be part of the 
Defense Authorization Act.

I know I speak for all of us, and that is if something happens to 
this legislation, we would come back with a separate piece of 
legislation so that we can make sure we act as quickly as possible.

We were all deeply disappointed by the conditions at Walter Reed that 
were reported in February of this year and the problems that our 
wounded warriors faced after their inpatient care was complete--living 
in substandard conditions at building 18, being treated poorly, 
battling a Cold-War disability evaluation process and, for some, 
falling through the cracks.

Since February of 2007, there have been many encouraging changes. 
First and foremost, Secretary Gates insisted on accountability for the 
leadership failures that led to the tragedy at Walter Reed.

In April of this year, the Army stood up a new warrior transition 
brigade at Walter Reed to attend to the needs of wounded and ill 
soldiers in both Active and Reserve components. This model of soldiers 
caring for soldiers is now spreading throughout the Army.

I think we are on the right track to address the problems at Walter 
Reed, but there is much more to be done. And I emphasize, we all 
recognize there is much more to be done. But I do believe this 
legislation is a very important and valuable contribution to the effort 
that must be ongoing. We must match the heroism of the wonderful young 
men and women who have given so much for our country.

Let me tell you who some of my heroes are: SGT Ted Wade was 
grievously wounded in Iraq in 2004, who together with his young wife 
Sara has bravely battled for 4 years the maze of health care and 
benefit evaluations of the Department of Defense, Veterans Affairs, and 
Social Security; lost medical records, confusing and conflicting 
medical and physical evaluations, and Sara even lost her job. These 
brave young people have also lost time. Four years is too much to ask 
of someone who has given so much for his country.

SFC Jeff Mittman is a brave Army soldier who was wounded 2 years ago 
by an RPG that tore away a significant portion of his face. Today, Jeff 
is still on active duty, though he returns to Walter Reed frequently 
for special surgery. Together with his wife Christy, they have 
continued to raise their children. Jeff is back at school. As a 
testament to his heroism, Jeff says of his extraordinary injuries: ''I 
got hit hard, but I'll walk it off.'' This weekend, he and his family 
will celebrate the second anniversary of his being alive.

SGT Eric Edmondson, a soldier who suffered severe traumatic brain 
injury in October 2005 and was thought to be without hope of recovery, 
today is standing on his own, thanks to the work of his remarkable 
therapist and his own strong determination to survive.

Petty Officer Mark Robbins is a Navy Seal who lost his eye from a 
sniper's bullet after saving the lives of his buddies in an RPG attack 
in Iraq in April of this year. Mark, who walked to the medical 
evacuation helicopter on his own after being wounded, is recovering 
today at his home in San Diego. His determination to carry on in the 
fight in spite of his injury is not the exception among our young men 
and women, it is a tribute.

I also think it is appropriate from time to time, even though what 
happened at Walter Reed was a disgrace and a scandal and a source of 
national shame, and it is important that we continue to emphasize that 
there are thousands and thousands of people who work in our armed 
services hospitals and clinics and also in veterans affairs who are 
present at our hospitals, who take care of our aging veterans from the 
''greatest generation,'' Korea, and the Vietnam war. These people labor 
most of the time without credit, most


of the time without publicity, and do a magnificent job.

The system is broken, not the people--not the people--who serve with 
dedication and patience and care, and love our veterans in a way which 
should be an example to all of us, and we should never forget that as 
we try to fix a broken system.

As I mentioned, these are some of America's heroes, my heroes, who 
have sustained terrible wounds, whose lives have been saved by the 
finest medical professionals in the world, and who, with their 
families, face the challenge of a long recovery and rebuilding their 
lives.

This legislation, the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act, 
will make a difference in the lives of our wounded warriors and their 
families. It bridges the gap in health care coverage for the severely 
wounded and ensures their access to the broadest possible range of 
health care options.

It authorizes additional care and support for families who are caring 
for the wounded. It requires the Secretary of Defense and Veterans 
Affairs to develop and implement new policies to better manage the care 
and transition of our wounded soldiers. It empowers a special board to 
review disability ratings of 20 percent or less and to restore to a 
wounded soldier, if appropriate, a higher disability rating or retired 
status.

Mr. President, that issue alone, of disability ratings, is one that, 
frankly, the Senator from Michigan and I cannot understand why it 
continued; that from one medical evaluation board, a certain level of 
disability and compensation would be adjudged while on active duty, go 
directly to the VA, and then another assessment is made with a 
different level of disability. It is just nonsensical. And I would like 
to say to all my colleagues, and I know we share a responsibility as 
well, we blamed the military, we blamed the VA, and we blamed a lot of 
people, but part of the responsibility lies right here with those of us 
who are supposed to have been paying better attention than we did. So I 
wish to make that perfectly clear, that I personally--and the 
Congress--share in the responsibility for having not fixed this system 
and some of the problems that have existed for a long time.

This legislation empowers a special board, as I mentioned, to review 
disability ratings. It authorizes additional funding for traumatic 
brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder, encouraging public and 
private partnerships to address these signature injuries of the war, 
and supports efforts to erase the stigma associated with seeking care.

We found out, much to our sorrow, that in this kind of conflict, 
brain injuries are probably far more prevalent than almost any other 
conflict in which our Nation has engaged. We also have found out, thank 
God, that we are able to save a higher percentage of those wounded than 
we have in any other conflict--again, a testimony to the incredible 
professionalism of those who labor and work with dedication in our 
military medical health care system.

The legislation improves benefits related to the administrative 
separation from the military due to injury, increasing severance pay 
for servicemembers with disabilities incurred in a combat zone, and 
eliminating the requirement that severance pay be deducted from VA 
disability compensation for disabilities incurred in a combat zone--
another remarkable situation which should have been fixed long ago. It 
requires the Secretary of Defense to immediately implement pilot 
projects to test improvements to the disability evaluation systems, to 
fundamentally change and improve those antiquated systems. It requires 
the Secretary of Defense to inspect and improve medical treatment in 
residential facilities and to study the accelerated construction of new 
facilities at the National Medical Center at Bethesda. The current 
facilities of Walter Reed have served the Nation well, but we can, and 
must, do better.

This legislation is an important step toward restoring trust for 
America's wounded and our veterans, but it is not our final 
destination. Our work also must be informed by the Presidential 
Commission on Care for America's Wounded, cochaired by one of my 
personal heroes, Senator Dole, an enduring American hero. This report 
will be filed in another few weeks, and I am confident we will work to 
implement the recommendations of that report as quickly as possible.

I am pleased that the Senate Committees on Armed Services and 
Veterans' Affairs held a joint hearing on the care of the wounded 
earlier this year. On June 27, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
reported a bill, portions of which will be offered as an amendment to 
the underlying bill. These add new resources for traumatic brain injury 
and mental health evaluations provided by the VA and extend the 
eligibility for care for combat veterans from 2 to 5 years.

I believe additional conversation and legislation are needed to 
ensure that veterans with service-connected illnesses and disabilities 
have timely access to quality health care service through the Veterans' 
Administration. Given the strain on the veterans health system and the 
limits of our resources, I believe this can best be achieved through 
partnerships with civilian health care specialists, based on the health 
care needs of our wounded veterans. I don't think there is anybody in 
the world who is better qualified and better trained to address direct 
combat injuries. I do believe there are many areas of health care in 
America that are better at certain types of illnesses, certain types of 
mental therapy that is required, and other areas where health care 
specialists exist. Those health care specialists should be made 
available to our veterans. I am a fiscal conservative, as everybody 
knows, but in this area, the care and treatment of wounded warriors and 
veterans, we cannot retreat, no matter what the cost.

I wish to again thank the distinguished chairman of this committee 
for his leadership. I again thank Senator Akaka, Senator Craig, and 
every member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee as well as the Armed 
Services Committee for our coming together and coming forward with this 
legislation. I only regret that it was needed.

I repeat the words of President George Washington in 1789, as I have 
so often during these times:




 The willingness with which our young people are likely to 


 serve in any war, no matter how justified, shall be directly 


 proportional as to how they perceive the veterans of earlier 


 wars were treated and appreciated by their country.


Again, I thank all the members of the committee, and I thank Ted and 
Sara Wade, Jeff and Christy Mittman, Eric Edmondson, Mark Robbins and 
his parents, and all of our wounded and their families. The solution to 
your trials requires cooperation among us all--in Congress, within the 
executive branch, and among veterans in military service organizations. 
With this amendment, I believe we are on the right path.

Again, I want to add my appreciation for the veterans service 
organizations--the VFW, the DAV, the AMVETS, the American Legion, and 
so many veterans organizations that labored day after day, in obscurity 
but with courage and with dedication on behalf of our veterans. Without 
them, we would not have received the valuable guidance and information 
and knowledge they have provided us as they address these challenges 
every single day.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.