---
---

# ADVANCING AMERICA'S PRIORITIES ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `df54fac75cb118bfe5dd63496a0f5d6d`
`Mr. COBURN — 28 July 2008`

---


Mr. COBURN. Mr. President, I will finish and end. First of all, the 
actual facts are that we are spending in Iraq $8 billion a month. It is 
not $10 billion to $15 billion; it is $8 billion.

No. 2, I am not holding four of the eight Judiciary bills in this 
bill. As a matter of fact, I already agreed to three of them by 
unanimous consent, and they have gone through this body already. We can 
play with the facts all we want. The fact is, what is the priority for 
the American people? I wish to help people who are paralyzed. I have 
been a supporter of the Emmett Till bill. I think we ought to pay for 
it. We spent $396 million for conferences in the Justice Department for 
the last 5 years. Why would we not take some of that money and pay for 
it? No, that is hard work. We would not do the oversight. We would not 
get rid of the wasteful spending. What we will do is pass new spending. 
That is what has to change.

What my colleagues want to do I am not necessarily objecting to. What 
I am objecting to is how they want to do it. I am objecting to doing 
something in the name of good today that undermines the name of good 
tomorrow, which is the future availability and potential for the 
children who come our way.

We can have disputes about the war. I have not voted to fund the war, 
not once. What I have voted for is transparency and elimination of 
waste, and I brought up amendments. The sponsors of this bill, every 
one of them voted for the bridge to nowhere; every one of them voted 
for the Hippy Museum in New York instead of the Child Health Program. 
Every one of them voted to, in fact, vote for sidewalk and bike trails 
instead of fixing the falling down bridges in this country.

The question is, When will we have people who will vote for the 
future? It is easy to spend money up here. It is very easy to do. And 
because we are on different sides of the debate doesn't mean those who 
want to do this are wrong. What is wrong is, in fact, creating a 
situation where we are going to charge it to our children.


There are options. Senator Reid was offered a list of amendments to 
offset at the Justice Department for the Emmett Till bill, and so was 
Senator Dodd. They refused to even consider offsetting any wasteful 
spending.