---
---

# None
## `df5aa15c607f4aaa60c7d267af55efca`
`Mr. DOMENICI â€” 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President, might I say to the Senator from 
Oklahoma, I greatly appreciate what you have done. I thank you very 
much.

I have always been in complete support of our troops who risk their 
lives every day to defend the United States of America. I voted for 
every dollar requested to fully fund our troops and against every 
effort to dictate the tactics of war from the Halls of Congress.

However, last year I began to express my concerns about the 
deteriorating conditions in Iraq and called on the Iraqi Government to 
do more and to do more quickly. I pointed to benchmarks laid out by the 
President and Congress that had a great deal of resonancy to them and 
that were rather unanimous in terms of support.

These were benchmarks on the ways that the Iraqi Government could and 
should move its country forward. I am glad to say that since General 
Petraeus took charge in Iraq, conditions have improved and the 
benchmarks have been met. I am glad to say that since General Petraeus 
took charge in Iraq, conditions have improved.

Iraq's different sects are working together. There has been a renewed 
spirit of reconciliation among Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds. A 
debaathification law has been passed. Iraqis are taking an interest in 
their own safety and security, forming neighborhood watch groups and 
looking out for each other.

There is no question, I know there are some who would not like to 
admit the facts, but the facts are the facts. Things have changed since 
last year in Iraq and they have changed for the better. I have briefly 
outlined how it happened and who made it happen.

There can be no doubt that the military hero of this war is General 
Petraeus. There can be no doubt he carries a heavy burden on his 
shoulders now to see if things can be wrapped up in a way that is good 
for the Iraqis, good for the entire Middle East and obviously in many 
ways would vindicate America's activities and what we have done there.

Iraqis are taking an interest in their own safety and security. They 
are forming neighborhood watch groups and are looking out for each 
other. One thing, and this kind of disturbs me, is that much of the 
information which I have to get, because I am not able to go to Iraq, 
is to talk to our own Senators who have been there. Because even though 
things have changed, Baghdad is safe, we just are not getting the 
coverage from the press of the United States or the press of the world 
that the change deserves. Because everybody in America should know what 
I am saying in this speech.

The very simple fundamental things that have happened have happened 
since General Petraeus set about with his approach that he told the 
country about. He named it. He told the President about it, and he did 
not ask for too much in order to exhibit and exercise his leadership.

Moreover, an Iraqi Army brigade recently deployed itself for 
operations against al-Qaida. Partially because of these efforts, there 
is less violence in Iraq now than when the insurgency began.

The Iraqi Government has passed an amnesty law for the country's 
Sunnis. Many said it would never be done. It was. The Government has 
further passed a budget--maybe we will not even pass ours this year, 
but they passed theirs for $50 billion for 2008. That is a compromise 
between the Sunnis, the Shiites, and the Kurds. They were able to sit 
down and solve their problems, their budget problems, and to pass a 
budget.

That is truly significant and truly different and obviously indicates 
that things have changed for the better. Oil revenues are going to 
Iraq's provinces to fund reconstruction efforts. That is another one 
everybody said would never happen, they will never be able to reach 
agreement on that. They have.

Even the New York Times has noted progress in Iraq, reporting that 
the newly passed legislation in Iraq:




 Has the potential to spur reconciliation between Sunnis and 


 Shiites and set the country on a road to a more 


 representative government, starting with new provincial 


 elections.


That is something when the New York Times would choose to say that. 
They have not covered it very well, but at least the words I read are 
words found in the New York Times, which would clearly indicate that 
even they, they of little faith and they of quick judgment on the war 
in Iraq, had to say what I have quoted.

Now, I am proud to be here today to note this progress, the progress 
of the Iraqi Government, because it is the progress of the Iraqi 
people, the people whom we went there to help.

It is their progress, their victory, their win. Yet we are proud it 
was led by an American who has apparently an exceptional capacity in 
these areas, the areas that festered and caused these people to remain 
far apart until the last 18 months.



They have made significant, notable progress in the past 6 months and 
are on the right path to a stable and secure Iraq. General Petraeus and 
our soldiers deserve our thanks, our thanks and support for their 
efforts in Iraq and in the larger global war on terror.

I yield the floor and thank my friend once again for yielding to me.