---
---

# VETERANS' BENEFITS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2008
## `df72fccea291ce79f68c53c8cd87a1a4`
`Mr. FILNER — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, obviously we rise in strong support of S. 3023, as 
amended, the Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2008. Just by the 
listing of the title of the bill, you see how wide ranging this 
legislation is.

We have, Madam Speaker, 24 million veterans in this country, over 2.5 
million of which receive disability compensation benefits from the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. Upon filing a claim for disability 
compensation at the VA, our veterans and their dependents face 
increased waiting times, along with an increasingly adversarial claims 
processing system.

From 2002 up until 2007, the backlog of disability claims rose from 
250,000 to nearly 650,000 claims pending. That is an insult to the 
veterans who have served this Nation. During the same period, the VA 
consistently missed its performance targets on nearly all compensation 
and pension claims processing fronts.

These problems are not new. General Omar Bradley, who was a Director 
of the Veterans Administration after World War II, in the mid-50s said 
in a comprehensive report that ''the dominant problems are the 
carryover from past decades of a backward-looking pension philosophy 
and our failure to adjust the existing veterans programs to fundamental 
changes in our society.''

This quote is pretty striking, because the same thing could be said 
of the claims processing system 50 years later.

After nearly 2 years of oversight hearings, informed by numerous 
reports examining these issues, the committee, led by our colleague 
John Hall of New York, who chairs the Disability Assistance and 
Memorial Affairs Subcommittee, set out to transform this broken and 
outdated system. He introduced and our House subsequently passed the 
Veterans Disability Benefits Claims Modernization Act of 2008, H.R. 
5892, which would comprehensively modernize VA's claim processing 
system. This legislation is the cornerstone of this Senate bill, S. 
3023.

Mr. Hall's efforts included contributions from our colleagues from 
the committee. Joe Donnelly of Indiana introduced the Immediate 
Benefits for Wounded Warriors Act of 2007, H.R. 4219; Congressman Space 
of Ohio introduced the Veterans Disability Fairness Act, H.R. 5709; and 
Congressman Hare of Illinois ensured that mental health was an issue 
that was captured in language throughout the bill. All of these 
Members, Madam Speaker, are new Members of our Congress, and they have 
taken a vigorous and active role in their work, as illustrated in this 
bill.

Congressman Gutierrez from Illinois and Congresswoman Corrine Brown 
from Florida introduced H.R. 674, which alerted us not to let the 
Advisory Committee on Minority Veterans sunset. And Congresswoman Carol 
Shea-Porter, another new Member from New Hampshire, has led the charge 
to spare families from VA debt collection.

So this bill will arm the VA with a lasting blueprint to transform 
its


claims processing system using integrated and modern information 
technology platforms and an updated rating schedule, with tools to 
improve the accountability, timeliness and quality of adjudicated 
claims. It will establish an Office of Survivors Assistance, and at 
last allow survivors to step into the shoes of deceased veterans to 
pursue pending claims and appeals.

Madam Speaker, we will finally tackle the central issues that have 
led to an unmanageable claims backlog, delays in processing, avoidable 
errors, inconsistencies in ratings and lack of accountability in a 
system that amounts to a ''system of injustice'' for our veterans.

This bill will help modernize the VA claims processing system and 
assist it in becoming a 21st century, world-class entity that reflects 
the selfless and priceless sacrifices of those it serves, our veterans, 
their families and survivors.



I would point out a pilot program that we will start on disability 
claims that takes as a model--and it may be surprising to say this, 
Madam Speaker--the IRS, our Internal Revenue Service, which for many 
years was very dysfunctional, but now, if you file your claim for a tax 
refund, you will get a check in 3 weeks because they send out the check 
on receipt of your tax return, but it's subject to audit.

So why not take that same process if your claim is documented fully 
and if you have help from a Certified Veteran Service Officer? There 
are thousands around the country. We will send out the check upon 
receipt, subject to audit. I think that's the way to clean up the 
backlog and to say to our veterans, yes, we understand your needs, and 
we are going to meet them.

In addition, Madam Speaker, I was contacted by veterans who are 
concerned that the VA does not have enough slots for veterans to 
participate in its so-called Independent Living Program. That program 
allows injured veterans to obtain meaningful employment, and it allows 
them to live independently while they heal from their wounds. So we 
have introduced a bill to allow 100 Independent Living Program slots to 
be available. I'm proud that this language was included in legislation 
that will ensure that the services needed by our veterans are available 
when they're required.

Madam Speaker, when we passed the so-called 21st century GI Bill some 
months ago, that was a great improvement in the educational benefits 
for our younger veterans, especially for those returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Starting the next school year, they'll be able to draw on 
those new benefits, but we are trying to model that GI Bill on the GI 
Bill of 1944, which had so much influence on making America's middle 
class.

Part of that bill of 1944 had a home loan guaranty program. I'm here 
because of that program. My dad was able, after he came back from the 
war, to buy a house in New York for $2,000. We were finally members of 
the middle class.

We didn't include that part in that GI Bill, but we include it here. 
We are going to raise the values for veterans' loans. We are going to 
raise the value at which a refinance can take place. We are going to 
reduce the fees and the equity requirements, and will make the VA home 
loan program, again, relevant to veterans today, especially to those 
who are experiencing a crisis right now. They will be able to go to the 
VA and get a good deal on refinancing their home loans, a deal they 
couldn't have gotten before this passed. So I think this will be, 
again, a great benefit for thousands of our veterans around the 
country.

We also have a provision in this bill by Representative Ciro 
Rodriguez, who is a distinguished member of our committee, to update 
housing construction and design guidelines furnished to contractors. He 
will talk about that in a few minutes.

Again, I want to make special mention of the cooperation of my 
ranking member, Mr. Buyer of Indiana. What we did in working together 
was to provide legislation, that I'm sure he will talk about, to give 
VA assistance to the Paralympics program, which has been so successful 
in assisting veterans and servicemembers in their rehabilitation 
efforts. That language is in here. Through this program, we give a 
sense of self-worth and a sense of confidence to veterans who are 
severely injured.

Mr. Buyer has a special interest in that. In fact, if we're not in 
session next week, I think he's going to visit part of that program 
that's being carried out in California. He's going to my district. He 
doesn't realize what kind of welcome we have ready for him, but we'll 
leave that to his imagination. It's going to strengthen our commitment 
to caring for the servicemembers by helping them heal from the wounds 
of war so they can be active members and have the confidence to do 
that.

We also have language similar to that introduced by Congressman 
Patrick Murphy of Pennsylvania that will extend Servicemembers Civil 
Relief Act protections to enable servicemembers with deployment orders 
to more easily terminate or to suspend cell phone contracts without fee 
or penalty. It sounds like a little thing, but it's big in the lives of 
young people who have to face deployment. We're trying to tackle not 
only the big things but also these little irritants that affect our 
active duty and our veterans.

Congressman Boozman from Arkansas worked on legislation that closes 
the loophole in the Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business 
Program. We clarify our intent by extending disabled veterans' small 
business contracting provisions to the maximum extent possible to cover 
agents purchasing goods and services on behalf of the VA.

On the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, Chairwoman Stephanie 
Herseth Sandlin and her ranking member, Mr. Boozman, introduced a bill, 
which is also included in this legislation, to authorize the VA's 
Secretary to advertise in national media outlets to make sure that 
veterans are informed of their benefits.

So you see, Madam Speaker, we have some very big things and some 
smaller things, but again, in working together, our committee was able 
to significantly affect the quality of life for our 25 million veterans 
in this country.

I would reserve the balance of my time.