---
---

# A NEW CONGRESS
## `df74956de0031c3db517c36d12451293`
`Mr. REID — 4 January 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, S. 2 is our plan to increase the wages of 
working families by raising the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour. It has 
been 10 years since the minimum wage was last increased. In that time, 
the cost of gas, to say the least, has increased. The cost of food has 
increased. The cost of health care has increased. Even the salaries of 
Members of Congress have increased. In fact, the salaries of Members of 
Congress in the last 10 years have increased 9 times, by more than 
$30,000. But through all of this, the minimum wage has stayed the same. 
It is long past time America's workers received a raise as well.

Today, a mother or father can work full time for the minimum wage but 
still live $5,000 below the poverty level. Adjusted for inflation, the 
minimum wage is at its lowest level since 1955. S. 2 will directly 
raise the pay of nearly 7 million Americans by more than $4,000 and by 
setting a new salary floor that will indirectly boost the wages of 8 
million more workers. That increase is enough to provide nearly 2 years 
of childcare, full tuition for a community college degree, over a 
year's worth of heat and electricity or more than 9 months of rent.

During the minimum wage debate we will also likely consider giving 
small businesses some tax relief. In fact, as we speak, Senator 
McConnell's staff and my staff are working, along with Senator Enzi, 
Senator Grassley, Senator Kennedy, and Senator Baucus, to see if we can 
have a minimum wage bill that he and I will cosponsor and bring before 
the Senate. We are working on that.

S. 2 is at the desk, and it will be reported at the appropriate time.

S. 3 is our plan to reduce drug costs for seniors. The flaws in the 
Medicare drug program are well documented, but many can be traced back 
to one simple fact: The law as written puts drug companies ahead of 
America's aging. No matter whether we supported or opposed that law--
that is, the one that created Medicare drug benefits--we all want to 
improve the program for older Americans and people with disabilities. 
It is our obligation to do so. Now the Federal Government, with the 
millions of seniors it represents through Medicare, is unable to 
negotiate for lower drug prices. As a result, Medicare beneficiaries 
are hostages to insurance companies, drug companies, and managed care 
entities like HMOs. S. 3 is at the desk.

S. 4 is our plan to make America safer by fully implementing the 
recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. Following September 11, 2001, 
the country turned to a respected, bipartisan group--the 9/11 
Commission--to review the lessons of that terrible day and to recommend 
better ways to fight the war on terror. Two American patriots chaired 
that independent bipartisan commission: Congressman Lee Hamilton of 
Indiana and former Governor Tom Kean of New Jersey. They did a 
remarkably good job in a period of 1 year. We realized we didn't need 
Democratic solutions or Republican solutions to keep people safe; we 
needed bipartisan American solutions to keep us safe. The Commission 
did a wonderful job and made a number of recommendations. Some were 
implemented, others weren't. I was the manager, along with my 
distinguished colleague, the minority leader, of the bill that was 
brought before the Senate.


One year ago, the Commission delivered a report card grading the 
Government's progress in implementing its solutions. Among the grades 
given by that commission were 12 Ds, 5 Fs, and two incompletes. I say, 
try taking those grades home to your parents. These grades made clear 
we still have not done enough to make America safe. We have work to do, 
and this legislation will step toward in fulfilling the recommendations 
of the 9/11 Commission. Specifically, it will reinvigorate the fight 
against Osama bin Laden, al-Qaida, and the ideologies of violent 
extremists. It will enhance the security of our transportation system 
and our ports. It will provide America's first responders with the 
technology they need to communicate with each other during a crisis, 
and it will make it a priority to secure loose nukes around the world.

Finishing the job of implementing 
9/11 Commission recommendations will not by itself win the war on 
terror or guarantee 100-percent complete security for the people of our 
country, but we hope with our legislation to improve on the worst of 
those grades, those Ds and Fs and incompletes, so the American people 
can have every confidence that Congress and the White House are taking 
every step--every step possible--to keep America safe. S. 4 is at the 
desk.

S. 5 is the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of this year, 2007. It 
is legislation we seek to pass so that American scientists will find 
cures--allow them to find cures for dread diseases that affect millions 
of our fellow countrymen. Today, there are people all across America 
suffering from debilitating diseases that stem cell research would 
cure. For these Americans, stem cell research is an area of science 
that offers hope, if only we in Washington would allow this hope to 
flourish. Last year, Congress passed legislation promoting stem cell 
research, only to see it vetoed by our President. This year, we will 
consider the legislation again, and on behalf of millions of Americans 
looking for cures, looking for relief, we urge our President to 
reconsider his veto. S. 5 is at the desk.

S. 6 is our plan to promote energy independence so we can enhance 
America's security and begin to deal with the threat--the threat--of 
global warming. I, with five of my Senate colleagues, traveled last 
week to the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, Bolivia. We were 
in Ecuador and Peru. They told us, the most diverse Nation in the 
world, the most ecologically diverse Nation in the world--Ecuador--that 
the glaciers are melting Ecuador, rapidly. For too long our country's 
energy policy has had only one concern: oil company profits--$34 
billion for Exxon and the other companies, international cartels, not 
far behind. We have allowed Exxon's bottom line to take priority over 
families struggling at the gas pump and the harmful effects of global 
warming. So in an effort to begin to solve this energy crisis, our 
sixth bill takes an aggressive approach to reducing America's 
dependence on oil, especially foreign oil, and putting more advanced 
technologies in the hands of consumers. It will boost production of 
electricity from solar, geothermal, and other renewable resources that 
are abundant in States such as Nevada, and it will grow our Nation's 
renewable energy jobs and manufacturing base. Freeing ourselves from 
oil is a tremendous challenge, but it is one we cannot afford to 
ignore. Remember: Unstable regimes around the world use our petro 
dollars to pay for international terror, to fund it, and pursue their 
despotic goals. So energy independence is not only energy independence, 
it is security. S. 6 is at the desk.

S. 7 is the College Opportunity Act, our plan to make college more 
affordable for middle-class families. In America today, a college 
education is more important than ever. Unfortunately, it is also far 
more expensive than ever. Today, too many families are being squeezed 
trying to put their children through school. In the last 6 years, the 
cost of college has increased by 52 percent. Federal assistance has 
declined, especially in the form of Pell grants. Our legislation will 
reverse this trend by raising the maximum Pell grant award. It will 
also assist families by lowering interest rates for student loans and 
expanding tax breaks for college costs. S. 7 is at the desk.

S. 8 is Rebuilding America's Military Act. As we speak, there is not 
a single nondeployed Army unit that is battle ready. The wars in 
Afghanistan and in Iraq, the war on terror, have been terribly 
devastating to our military. These brave men and women have done the 
very best any fighting force could do. But because of Iraq and 
Afghanistan, the U.S. militarily is strained to levels not seen since 
Vietnam. While our troops remain the finest in the world, 
infrastructure is crumbling around them. Nearly all of our combat 
divisions have been deployed and two-thirds of our Army combat brigades 
are not ready for combat. GEN Peter Schoomaker, the Chief of Staff of 
the Army, testified last month, ''At this pace . . . we will break the 
active component'' of the U.S. Army.



We, also, have National Guard, Reserve and Active-Duty veterans 
coming back in droves to America without sufficient help for their 
health care and certainly not their education.

If we want real security, we must rebuild the U.S. military and 
ensure it remains the best fighting force in the world. S. 8 is at the 
desk.

S. 9 will secure America by undertaking comprehensive immigration 
reform. I had friends and colleagues, staff, ask: Why are you bringing 
up this controversial subject on the first day of Congress? It has to 
be brought up. Immigration is a problem that affects this Nation. Last 
year, we passed a solid immigration bill in the Senate. There are parts 
of that bill I didn't like, but we passed a bill. Unfortunately, it 
fell victim to politics, again in the other body. Immigration reform is 
too vital to our security and our economy to fall by the wayside, so we 
must deal with it again this year. Our immigration system is broken. 
Does anyone dispute this? Our borders remain unsecured. Does anyone 
dispute that? Our laws remain underenforced. Does anyone dispute that? 
Does anyone dispute the fact that we have 11 million people with bad 
papers who are here illegally? Does anyone dispute that? No. So our 
bill will take a comprehensive approach to repairing this broken 
system. With tough and smart reforms, it will secure our borders, crack 
down on enforcement, and lay down a path to earned legalization for 
undocumented immigrants already living here. There is no amnesty. If 
there were ever an example of the need for bipartisanship, it is on 
immigration because it is going to be hard, but it is something that we 
have to do. S. 9 is at the desk.

Finally, S. 10 will reinstate pay-as-you-go rules to the budget 
process. This does not sound very politically sexy, to talk about pay 
as you go. But as most know, the Senate used to operate under a rule 
called pay as you go. This simple proposition demanded that when we 
increased spending or cut taxes we had to pay for it. It is a 
commonsense principle families all across America practice when they 
balance their checkbooks. Pay-go was in place in the Senate in the 
1990s, when our country experienced unprecedented levels of economic 
growth and vitality. Remember, it can be done. In the last years of the 
Clinton administration, we paid down the national debt by almost a half 
trillion dollars. Unfortunately, the rule disappeared in recent years 
and the results have been disastrous: $9 trillion in debt; the largest 
deficits, of course, in our history; foreign debt that has more than 
doubled, giving unprecedented control to countries such as Saudi Arabia 
and China. We are even borrowing money from Mexico. These countries 
should not have the unprecedented control of our economic destiny. We 
are facing a fiscal nightmare that will not go away this Congress, and 
it will handicap our ability in all we need to do in so many different 
areas. With pay-go in place, we will begin to set America on the right 
track.

I have been in Congress going on 25 years. In my 25 years, I 
witnessed many fine moments in our Senate's history. But I believe in 
my State, in the Senate, and in the House, the days following 9/11 are 
what America is all about. It was a national tragedy, but it brought 
out the best in us, the best in Members of Congress, the best in the 
American people. Democrats and Republicans from all over America put 
aside our differences and worked with the administration to protect our 
country. That day showed the Government working as the Founders 
intended. This year we must work on the same bipartisan basis, the same 
fashion.

It should not take a national tragedy for us to work together. We 
should be equally united by our ability to make a positive difference 
in the lives of the people who sent us here. Today is that beginning. 
This year let us work side by side and succeed together.




 The future lies with those wise political leaders who 


 realize the great public is interested more in government 


 than politics.


--Franklin Delano Roosevelt, 1940.
