# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `df807c94392e4c18827d1db62939e499`
`Mr. AKAKA — 27 September 2008`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, as a senior member of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee, I was pleased the Senate passed the House Amendment 
to S. 3001, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2009, today by unanimous consent. This bill follows through on the 
commitment that this Congress has made to our troops and their families 
to provide them with the support that they need and deserve. This 
includes a 3.9-percent across-the-board pay raise for all uniformed 
personnel--a half a percent more than the President's request--and a 
prohibition on increasing TRICARE beneficiary cost shares and pharmacy 
copays. It also includes a number of provisions designed to improve the 
readiness of our troops. For example, the bill fully funds Army and 
Marine Corps readiness and depot maintenance programs which will help 
ensure that the men and women in our armed services have the equipment 
necessary for them to fulfill their mission requirements. It also adds 
$15 million for the readiness and environmental protection initiative 
to fund priority projects that benefit critical mission training sites 
and directs the Secretary of Defense to conduct a comprehensive 
technical and operational risk assessment for DOD installations, 
facilities, and activities.

As the chairman of the Armed Services Committee's Subcommittee on 
Readiness and Management Support, I was pleased to work toward the 
inclusion of a number of critically important management and 
acquisition policy provisions which were included in this bill. These 
include a provision to establish steering boards to review new 
requirements that could increase the costs of major weapons systems, 
language requiring business transformation offices for each military 
department and a provision requiring the DOD to establish ethics 
standards to prevent personal conflicts of interest by contractor 
employees who perform acquisition functions on behalf of the DOD. I 
applaud the inclusion of language that expresses the view of Congress 
that private security contractors should not perform inherently 
governmental functions in an area of combat operations and that 
contractor employees should not conduct interrogations of detainees 
during the aftermath of hostilities. However, I am disappointed that 
due to a large extent to the Administration's objections and the 
absolute need to pass this bill in an expeditious manner, we were not 
able to incorporate this sense of the Congress into provisions that 
have the force of law.

As chairman of the Veteran's Affairs Committee, I was very pleased to 
have worked toward the inclusion of a number of provisions related to 
the treatment of wounded warriors. This includes a clarification of the 
requirement that DOD utilize the VA criteria in establishing 
eligibility of retirement and disability. It also requires the 
Secretaries of Defense and the VA to jointly establish a center of 
excellence in the mitigation, treatment and rehabilitation of traumatic 
extremity injuries and amputations as well as a center of excellence in 
the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of 
hearing loss. In addition, this bill includes a provision derived from 
legislation that I introduced to extend senior-level oversight of 
cooperative efforts between the Departments of Defense and Veterans 
Affairs. The Senior Oversight Committee, SOC, was formed in the wake of 
last year's Walter Reed scandal, to improve the efforts of DOD and VA 
in managing the transition from military service to veteran status for 
wounded servicemembers. The Senior Oversight Committee's 
responsibilities are not complete as long as wounded warriors are still 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, therefore, I was pleased to be 
able to include this language for the SOC to be able to continue its 
important function.

Once again, I would like to thank Chairman Levin for his strong 
leadership and dedication to ensuring that this bill was passed. I also 
want to take this last opportunity to extend my warmest aloha to my 
friend and colleague Senator Warner who managed this bill on the 
minority side. In my many years of serving with Senator Warner on the 
Armed Services Committee, I have never failed to be impressed by his 
character, graciousness, and collegiality. Mahalo Nui Loa for your 
friendship and for all that you have done for our nation and the 
members of our armed services in particular.