---
---

# IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `df807f27b3e6d29e24107e2ecc97362e`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 28 February 2007`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, the remarks the Senator from 
California and the Senator from New York


have made today are very well taken, and I rise to express my shared 
concern with them and my support for their initiative to get to the 
bottom of what took place. In May of 1994 I had the honor to be sworn 
in as Rhode Island's U.S. attorney. It was one of the great honors of 
my life, equivalent to the great honor of being sworn in with you, Mr. 
President, into this extraordinary body. I knew when I took that oath 
that I would be forced to make very hard decisions and that my 
independence and my integrity would be my strongest allies as I 
discharged the extraordinarily difficult and powerful responsibilities 
of a U.S. attorney.

Last December, seven U.S. attorneys were fired by the Department of 
Justice, all on the very same day. That is unprecedented. Never, to my 
knowledge, in the history of the Department have so many heads of U.S. 
attorneys rolled all on the same day. These men and women had been 
confirmed in this great Chamber. By all indications, they were well 
qualified and performing well in their jobs. Several of them were 
involved in ongoing public corruption investigations. Yet in this 
unprecedented step, this administration showed them all the door. It 
suggests to us all the question: why might such an extraordinary act 
have taken place; why were they told their services were no longer 
required?

The Attorney General, Alberto Gonzales, told us this:




 What we do is make an evaluation about the performance of 


 individuals, and I have a responsibility to the people in 


 your district that we have the best possible people in these 


 positions.


Deputy Attorney General Paul McNulty testified that ''turnover in the 
position of U.S. attorney is not uncommon.''


So the two suggestions that were made were that this was performance 
related, that a performance evaluation had been done of these 
individuals and they had not measured up, and that it was just 
turnover. It is hard to accommodate both of those stories, but when one 
looks into each of them, it makes even less sense.

The committee, through Senator Schumer and Senator Feinstein, asked 
to see the Evaluation and Review Staff reports, what is called an EARS 
evaluation. When I was a U.S. attorney in Rhode Island, I lived through 
an EARS evaluation. All the local agencies were interviewed by career 
U.S. attorney services staff, detailed to Rhode Island just for the 
purpose of doing these evaluations. They happen in every office every 3 
years. They are a significant part of the oversight and management 
practice of the Department of Justice, and they are extremely thorough.

We asked to see the reports. When it was clear that we were going to 
ask to see these performance evaluations, the Department began to back 
down. Mr. McNulty told the committee:




 We are ready to stipulate that the removal of the U.S. 


 attorneys may or may not be something supported by an EARS 


 report because it may be something performance related that 


 isn't the subject of what the evaluators saw or when they saw 


 it or how it came up, and so forth.


There isn't much that an EARS evaluation doesn't look at, and 
contrary views began to emerge from the Department very shortly.

In an article published February 4, the Washington Post reported 
that:




 [O]ne administration official, who spoke on the condition 


 of anonymity in discussing personnel issues, said the spate 


 of firings was the result of ''pressure from people who make 


 personnel decisions outside of Justice who wanted to make 


 some things happen in those places.''


Let's look at some of those places. In Arkansas, H.E. Bud Cummins III 
was a 5-year veteran U.S. attorney serving in Arkansas's Eastern 
District. Last June, he was asked to resign. The man chosen to replace 
the well-respected Mr. Cummins was Tim Griffin. Mr. Griffin is 37 years 
old. He served as Special Assistant to Assistant Attorney General 
Michael Chertoff in the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice, 
where he was sent as a detailee to the Arkansas U.S. Attorney's Office.

What Mr. Griffin lacked in prosecutorial experience, he more than 
made up for in political experience. Mr. Griffin is a former aide to 
Presidential adviser Karl Rove. He is also a former Republican National 
Committee research director. As those of us who have been through this 
sort of thing know, ''research director'' is not about looking up old 
statutes; it is about prying into personal lives of other candidates in 
order to try to dig up dirt on them.

A more partisan choice could not have been made to replace Mr. 
Cummins. Remember, Mr. McNulty said:




 The Department is committed to having the best person 


 possible for discharging the responsibilities of that office 


 at all times in every district.


It is just hard to believe that Mr. Tim Griffin was the best person 
possible, at least not as we ordinarily define those terms. At the end 
of our Judiciary hearing, Mr. McNulty admitted that Mr. Cummins, the 
Government's chief prosecutor in Little Rock, Arkansas, was fired to 
give Mr. Griffin the opportunity to have the appointment.

In San Diego, U.S. attorney Carol Lam successfully prosecuted Duke 
Cunningham, who pled guilty and resigned in 2005. She subpoenaed the 
House Armed Services, Appropriations, and Intelligence Committees in 
connection with a probe into Defense Department contracts. Her office 
indicted Kyle ''Dusty'' Foggo, the CIA's former Executive Director, and 
Brent Wilkes, a defense contractor and top Republican fundraiser.

In her district, former Reagan U.S. attorney Peter Nunez--another 
Republican political appointee familiar with the world of U.S. 
attorneys because he served there himself; he served from 1982 to 
1988--said this:




 It's just like nothing I have ever seen before in 35-plus 


 years. To be asked to resign and to be publicly humiliated by 


 leaking this to the press is beyond any bounds of decency and 


 behavior. It shocks me. It is really outrageous.


San Diego's top-ranking FBI official, Dan Dzwilewski, also commented 
on Lam's firing. Bear in mind, this is the Director of the FBI office 
that is operating as lead agency in these public corruption 
investigations. His quote:




 I guarantee politics is involved . . . It will be a huge 


 loss from my perspective.


Other U.S. attorneys, such as David Iglesias of New Mexico and John 
McKay of Seattle, said they had no idea why they were being asked to 
step down.

That changed recently. Today was posted a story from which I will 
quote:




 The U.S. attorney from New Mexico who was recently fired by 


 the Bush administration said Wednesday that he believes he 


 was forced out because he refused to rush an indictment in an 


 ongoing probe of local Democrats a month before November's 


 Congressional elections.



 David Iglesias said two members of Congress separately 


 called in mid October to inquire about the timing of an 


 ongoing probe of a kickback scheme and appeared eager for an 


 indictment to be issued on the eve of the elections in order 


 to benefit the Republicans. He refused to name the members of 


 Congress because he said he feared retaliation. . . .



 "U.S. Attorney Daniel Bogden, who also stepped down 


 Wednesday after being asked to leave in December'' had it 


 recently reported in the Wall Street Journal that the FBI was 


 investigating in his district allegations ''whether Nevada 


 Governor Jim Gibbons performed any official acts on behalf of 


 a contract in exchange for gifts or payments. Gibbons, a 


 Republican, has denied any wrongdoing.''



 Bogden said he hoped that the ongoing case did not have 


 anything to do with his ouster.


This is his quote:




 You would like to think that the reason you're put in the 


 position as U.S. attorney is because you are willing to step 


 up to the plate and take on big cases, Bogden said.



 It's not a good thing if you begin to wonder whether you'll 


 lose your job if you pursue them.


Last month, a Las Vegas newspaper reported:




 a GOP source said . . . the decision to remove U.S. 


 attorneys, primarily in the West, was part of a plan to 


 ''give somebody else that experience'' to build up the back 


 bench of Republicans by giving them high-profile jobs.


These are extremely troubling facts. The New York Times has recently 
editorialized on this subject and hypothesized three reasons for why 
these well-qualified attorneys were fired. As the New York Times said, 
''all political and all disturbing.'' The first reason: helping 
friends; the second, candidate recruitment; the third, Presidential 
politics.

The newspaper concluded that the politicization of Government over 
the last 6 years has had tragic consequences in New Orleans, in Iraq, 
and elsewhere, but allowing politics to infect U.S. Attorney's Offices 
takes it to


a whole new level. Congress should continue to pursue the case of the 
fired U.S. attorneys vigorously, both to find out what really happened 
and to make sure that it does not happen again.

I would like to highlight two further concerns that come from my 
experience as a U.S. attorney. One concern is how this alters the 
balance between U.S. Attorney's Offices and what we used to call main 
Justice, and the second concern is the chilling effect on prosecutions 
of public corruption.

There is constant tension between the U.S. attorneys in the field and 
main Justice. The U.S. attorneys know their districts, they have 
practiced before those judges, they know their office's capabilities 
very well, and they have their own local priorities. Of course, the 
Department of Justice also has its own priorities, its national 
priorities set by the President, and the tension between those two is 
healthy and is constant. In getting its message out to the U.S. 
attorneys, the Department has a wide array of ways to send its signals 
and make its wishes known, but to take six or seven well-performing 
U.S. attorneys and sack them all at once ends that dialogue. It brings 
the blunt instrument of, not even persuasion any longer, but brute 
force, to bear.

Now, there can very well be policy differences between the Department 
of Justice and local offices, but this would be a first for the 
Department of Justice, to say: You haven't emphasized this enough so we 
are going to have your head. It will squash the healthy tension between 
U.S. attorneys and between the Department, and at least in my 
experience, the greater wisdom of the Department of Justice versus that 
of all the U.S. attorneys in the field was not such that it justifies 
this level of force in emphasis and enforcement and in the demand for 
conformity with its policy positions.

I submit there is long-term damage to the capabilities of the 
Department of Justice as this tension is disrupted. We live in a 
country of checks and balances, and tensions like these are very often 
the best things for the public we serve when they are allowed to be 
maintained in a healthy fashion.

The second point I would make is the chilling effect on prosecutions 
of public corruption. This applies particularly with respect to Ms. Lam 
in California. In many respects, she had become the leading edge of the 
Federal Government's sword point on public corruption investigation 
because of the investigations that I mentioned earlier in my remarks. 
Her office was leading the biggest public corruption cases in the 
Nation, with more to come it appears. U.S. Attorney Lam was personally 
at the helm of these investigations, and she was well qualified for 
that role. Her unceremonious expulsion from office will send a 
shockwave through the offices of her fellow U.S. attorneys, and that 
shockwave will carry a very unfortunate message because these cases are 
not easy ones.

Public corruption cases are resource intensive for the office 
involved. They are extraordinarily challenging. Witnesses are scarce 
and difficult, significant agent expertise is required, internal 
procedures governing the investigation itself are complex and onerous, 
and launching one's office at established political figures is a 
decision with potentially serious consequences not only for the U.S. 
attorney but for the career people in that office. Someone who has come 
through all of that and moved out onto the leading edge of public 
corruption investigation for this country, I believe, merits the active 
support of the Department of Justice not just for the good work done 
but as a message and a signal to U.S. attorneys around the country that 
when they step out into that public corruption arena, we will back them 
up.

The signal to the contrary is a dangerous one. When a U.S. attorney 
gets fired, and one who was deep into a public corruption investigation 
and is leading it so well that their termination draws a public rebuke 
from the FBI chief, antennae will go up across the country.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the 
Record at the conclusion of my remarks a letter that the Attorney 
General has received from the National Association of Former United 
States Attorneys.