---
---

# SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009
## `df89c7d749e9e2fa6e8569bf42ee68c1`
`Mr. CAMP — 7 October 2009`

---


Mr. CAMP. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
Since September 11, American military, diplomatic and intelligence 
personnel have seen extended and recurring deployments in support of 
contingency operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. These brave Americans 
have answered the call and, at the drop of a hat, gone off to defend 
this great Nation in a most consequential time. This House and the 
American people are extremely grateful for their courage and sacrifice.

Today, as we rotate personnel home from Iraq and contemplate 
increasing force levels in Afghanistan, Congress can ease the 
transition for those in uniform by ensuring existing homeownership tax 
incentives are flexible for their circumstances. This bill does that. 
It modifies the existing first-time homebuyer tax credit to make it 
fairer for military and diplomatic families deploying overseas or 
returning home who, under the way the current credit is written, may be 
unable to take advantage. These provisions are based heavily on 
language included in bills that many, including my colleague from 
Louisiana, Charles Boustany, and from North Carolina, Walter Jones, 
have championed for some time.

The bill also helps military families relocating as part of the Base 
Realignment and Closure, or BRAC, process. As DOD has transformed its 
base infrastructure, many service families have had difficulty selling 
homes adjacent to military installations because of declining values 
and an unprecedented slowdown in the housing market. In the stimulus 
bill, Congress provided relief in the form of a one-time funding 
increase for DOD's homeowners assistance program, which provides 
housing payments to these military families to help with relocation. 
H.R. 3590 clarifies that military families will not be taxed on these 
additional benefits.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, this is a good bill, and I'm proud to lend 
my support to it today. I'm hopeful the Senate will quickly approve the 
legislation so the President can sign it into law. We owe our men and 
women in uniform, as well as the families that support them, nothing 
less.

I reserve the balance of my time.