# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES REGARDING THE  TERRORIST ATTACKS LAUNCHED AGAINST THE UNITED STATES ON SEPTEMBER 11,
## `df9a78d3b12bfd821fb29cb18786a419`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 11 September 2008`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

It has been 7 years since the unimaginable happened, unimaginable, 
but nevertheless all too real.

It is difficult to believe that the months and the years have passed 
so quickly for some, so slowly for others. But although the passage of 
time cannot erase the scars, it often shows mercy by soothing the raw 
wounds of experience and transforming them into memory. And that is our 
purpose here today, Madam Speaker, to remember, to remember the victims 
and to remind ourselves of the hatred that fuels the enemies of freedom 
and their desire to destroy us, to destroy our homeland, to destroy 
everything that we represent.

Every American and millions around the globe remember that day, 
remember where they were and what they were doing when they heard the 
news and turned on their televisions. They remember the numbing shock 
and the horror of that day. All wanted to do something to help, and yet 
there seemed at that time to be so little that could be done to relieve 
the suffering and the fear.



Thank God that there were men and women in a position to help and who 
did so at great risk and at great cost to themselves. We honor those 
individuals for their bravery, none of whom sought fame, many of whom 
lost their lives so that others might live.

But while it is appropriate that we remember the events of that day, 
that we mourn those whom we lost and celebrate the many heroes, our 
attention should not be fixed entirely on the past for the attack on us 
was not a single blow but the declaration of a war.

We suddenly learned that this war had already been fought against us 
for many years and in many places, but we had not recognized it for 
what it was. We had the taking of our embassy and Americans hostages in 
Iran in 1979, the bombing of our embassy compound and the Marine 
attacks in Beirut in the early 1980s, the first World Trade Center 
bombing by Islamic terrorists in 1993, and the attack on the Khobar 
Towers in Saudi Arabia, the USS Cole, and our embassies in Kenya and 
Tanzania, also in the 1990s.

The goal of our self-proclaimed enemies is not to defeat us but to 
destroy us. For they must destroy us if they are to destroy the 
civilization we represent which they have defined as their ultimate 
aim. Their fantasies cannot be made true as long as we exist to stop 
them.

This is a new type of war, Madam Speaker, which presents unfamiliar 
challenges, and it will test us in ways for which the methods of the 
past have only a limited use.

Securing victory will task our mental and material resources and will 
require innovative approaches and unconventional solutions. But our 
courage, our steadfastness, our determination will be as greatly 
challenged.

In the 7 years since we were attacked, we have come to know our 
enemies, we have come to know their plans and their methods of 
operation.



As we see them more clearly, we are increasingly able to uncover 
their networks and locate their hiding places. But we should not expect 
an easy success. Our enemies have many allies and have sunk deep roots 
that will not easily be torn out.

Even as I speak, our warriors are fighting for us and for our country 
far away from their homes. I am proud that my stepson and my daughter-
in-law are two of those warriors who served in Iraq and Lindsey in 
Afghanistan as well.

We pray for the success of all of our personnel in harm's way, 
knowing that victory will not be achieved in one decisive battle but in 
many small ones and fought in many ways and in many places around the 
globe.

Let us remember this as we prepare our defenses and make our plans to 
seek out and destroy those who would destroy us.

We must not deceive ourselves with the hope that this threat will 
just go away, that our enemies will tire of the battle, that they will 
experience a change of heart, and that they will renounce the evil that 
they have committed, and instead, we know that they will eagerly plan 
to do so again.

We must remember that we cannot hide, that we must not fall prey to 
the easy belief that there are easy solutions because, in fact, there 
are none.

But there is no room for despair, Madam Speaker. For more than two 
centuries, our country has risen to meet the challenges that at the 
time seemed impossible, when the odds against us seemed to be too 
great, and the path to victory seemed difficult to see. But we have 
always prevailed.

So on this day of remembrance, Madam Speaker, let us reflect upon all 
those whom we have lost, on all those who guard us still today, and on 
the task remaining for all of us, and pledge to do our duty as have all 
the generations that have preceded us.

God bless the United States of America, now and always.

With that, Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of our time.