# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `dfa436ea646be5081baf5ba7ae0acfd2`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 5 February 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the amendment I have is a product of a lot 
of work from a number of Senators on this side of the aisle. I 
especially thank Senator Martinez of Florida, a great leader on this 
issue, along with Senator Thune, Senator Graham, and many other 
Senators who have been involved in this discussion. This is an 
alternative we believe would truly create jobs and stimulate our 
economy. The total cost is around $421 billion.

I wish, before I describe the amendment--and I know others of my 
colleagues want to discuss this amendment--I wish to point out it is 
very clear that public opinion in this country is swinging against the 
proposal that is now before the Senate and was passed by the other 
body. They are opposed because they see now in the Senate a $995 
billion package which could reach more than $1.2 trillion. Many 
Americans, certainly now a majority, do not see it as a way to create 
jobs and to stimulate our economy. They see it loaded down with 
unnecessary spending programs. They see it, very correctly, with policy 
changes which deserve extended debate and voting on their own, such as 
''Buy American'' provisions, Davis-Bacon, giving Federal workers new 
whistleblower protections. Some of these policy changes may be 
laudable, others are not, at least in my view, but all of them deserve 
debate and discussion rather than being placed in a piece of 
legislation that is intended to stimulate our economy and create jobs.

I think it is time that we also understand how we got where we are. I 
have been around this body long enough to recognize that we are now 
entering the final phase of consideration of this package. Whether it 
be today or over the weekend or early next week, this bill will be 
disposed of one way or another by the Senate. So how did we get to 
where we are today, with a $995 billion package, at least, or $1.2 
trillion, or perhaps more than that, with a bill that probably would 
create, in the view of the administration--and I do not agree with it--
3 million jobs, which would mean that each job that is created by it 
costs the taxpayers $275,000. I do not think many Americans believe 
that each job created should cost $275,000 of their hard-earned tax 
dollars.

In fact, the response my office is getting borders on significant 
anger when we talk about many of the funding programs that are in the 
stimulus bill. I will go through several of them later on, but $400 
million for STD prevention; $40 million to make park services more 
energy efficient; $75 million for smoking cessation. It is hard to 
argue that, even though these provisions, many of them, may be 
worthwhile, they actually create jobs. So we have strayed badly from 
our original intent of creating a situation in America to reverse the 
terrible decline and economic ditch in which we find the American 
economy, to the point we have had spending programs and policy 
provisions which have nothing to do with stimulating the economy and 
creating jobs. It may be Government--let me put it this way. It may be 
legislative activity, possibly, at its worst.

We are offering today an alternative at less than half the cost that 
we think creates jobs and stimulates the economy. I remind my 
colleagues, despite the rhetoric about bipartisanship, this bill 
originated in the House of Representatives, as is constitutionally 
appropriate. There was no Republican input whatsoever. It passed the 
other body on a strict party-line basis with the loss of 11 Democrats 
and came over to this body, where in both the Appropriations and the 
Finance Committees, almost every Republican amendment was rejected on 
party lines.

I appreciate very much that the President of the United States came 
over to address Republican Members of the Senate and Republican Members 
of the House. The tenor of his remarks I think was excellent. But the 
fact is, we did not sit down and seriously negotiate between Republican 
and Democrat. I have been involved in many bipartisan efforts in this 
body, for many years, that have achieved legislative result. The way 
you achieve it is not to come over and talk to a body. The answer is to 
sit down and seriously negotiate and come up with compromises which 
result in legislation which is good for the country.

That has not happened in this process. Again, the American people are 
figuring it out. I am confident, because of the way this process has 
taken place, that gap, which is now 43-37, the majority of the American 
people opposing this package, will grow.

A majority of the American people still believe we have to stimulate 
the economy and create jobs. I agree with them. But to spend $1.2 
trillion on it, and have no provision for when the economy recovers to 
put us back on the path of fiscal sanity and stability--as the 
amendment that I had last night was rejected; we got 44 vote--does not 
provide the American people with confidence that spending will stop at 
some time.

One thing they have learned is that spending programs that are 
initially supposed to be temporary become permanent. They become 
permanent. That is a historical fact.

So we have initiated nearly $1 trillion--many in new spending, some 
hundreds of billions of dollars in new spending--with no provision, 
once the economy has recovered--and the economy will recover in 
America--this is no path to balancing the budget. Instead, we laid a 
$700 billion debt on future generations of America in the form of TARP, 
we are laying $1.2 trillion additional in the form of this bill, and 
another half a trillion dollars in the omnibus appropriations bill, and 
then we are told there will be a necessity for another TARP, which 
could be as much as $1 trillion, because of our declining economy. Yet 
there has been no provision whatsoever, once the economy recovers, to 
put us back on a path to balancing the budget and reducing and perhaps 
eliminating--hopefully eliminating--this debt we have laid on future 
generations of Americans.

I used to come down to the floor here, and have over the years, and 
argue against provisions in appropriations bills--which, by the way, 
has led to corruption. I notice there is another individual staffer who 
is being charged today, or yesterday, for inappropriate behavior with 
Mr. Abramoff.

There used to be hundreds of thousands and sometimes thousands. Now, 
they are in the millions and billions, tens of millions and billions. 
My how we have grown.

Do we need $1 billion for national security at the Nuclear Security 
Administration Weapons Activities to create jobs? We may need $1 
billion for National Nuclear Security Administration Weapons Activity, 
but to say it will create jobs and will stimulate the economy is a 
slender reed.

There is nobody who appreciates more than this person the 
contribution that Filipino war veterans made to winning the Second 
World War. We are going to give millions of dollars to those who live 
in the Philippines. Do not label that as job stimulation.

Smoking cessation is something that we all support. How does $75 
million for smoking cessation create jobs within the next years that 
would justify expenditures of $75 million?

This body, in the name of increasing health care for children, raised 
taxes by some $61 billion, I guess it is, on tobacco use. So we now 
hope people will use tobacco in order to pay for insurance for 
children. But the fact is, $75 million for smoking cessation should be 
an issue that is brought up separately and on its own. And the list 
goes on and on and on.

Our proposal--I am grateful for the participation of so many 
Senators--would allocate approximately $275 billion in tax cuts. It 
would eliminate the 3.1 percent payroll tax for all employees for 1 
year and use general revenues to pay for the Social Security 
obligation.

It would allocate $60 billion to lower the 10-percent tax bracket to 
5 percent for 1 year. It would lower the 15-percent tax bracket to 10 
percent for 1 year. It would lower corporate tax brackets from 35 
percent to 25 percent for 1 year.



We alarmed the world with the ''Buy American'' provisions which are 
included in this bill. The reaction has been incredible, and the fact 
is, jobs flee America for a number of reasons. But one of them is we 
have the highest business taxes of any nation in the world. We used to 
have among the lowest.

So if we really want to create jobs in America and attract capital 
and investment for the United States of America, we need to lower the 
corporate tax bracket. We need to have accelerated depreciation for 
capital investments for small businesses. We need to assist Americans 
in need, there is no doubt about that. There are Americans who are 
wounded and are hurting today. It is not their fault.

We need to extend the unemployment insurance benefits. That is a $38 
billion pricetag. We need to extend food stamps. We need to extend 
unemployment insurance benefits, make them tax free. That is a $10 
billion pricetag. And, of course, we need to provide workers with 
training and employment. That is a $50 billion cost.

We need to keep families in their homes. We needed, and we did adopt 
last night, the $15,000 tax credit. But we also need to fund the 
increase in the fee that servicers receive from continuing a mortgage 
and avoiding foreclosure. We need to have GSE and FHA conforming loan 
limits. That is $32 billion. We also, by the way, need to do more in 
the housing area.

You know, it is interesting in all of these spending proposals we 
have, there is not one penny for defense, not one penny. Obviously, we 
are going to have to reset our military. We need to replace the aging 
equipment that has been used so heavily in Iraq and will be needed in 
Afghanistan.

We need to improve and repair and modernize the barracks, the 
facilities and infrastructure that directly support the readiness and 
training of the Armed Forces. We do not have that in the now $995 
billion package that is before us. Obviously, we need to spend money on 
military construction projects which will create jobs immediately. 
Those people who say that is not the case, I can provide for the record 
adequate information that many of our military construction projects 
could begin more quickly than those that are not on our military bases 
because of environmental and other concerns.

We need to spend $45 billion on transportation infrastructure. There 
are grants to States to build and repair roads and bridges, including 
$10 billion for discretionary transportation grants, and $1 billion for 
roads on Federal lands. Public transit, obviously, we need to fund, and 
airport infrastructure improvements are necessary, along with small 
business loans. That is about $63 billion in our proposal.

Finally, the American people believe, and I think correctly, spending 
is out of control in our Nation's Capital. We continue to spend and 
spend and spend. We not only have accumulated over a $10 trillion 
deficit, this will add another $1 trillion or more. I mentioned the 
TARP of $700 billion, all of which is being paid for--we are printing 
money in order to fund it.

At some point we are going to have to get our budget balanced or our 
children and our grandchildren are going to pay the bill. I recommend 
that this body hear as much as possible from David Walker, former head 
of the Government Accountability Office, in the Congress of the United 
States. He paints a stark picture. In my view, it is also time that we 
establish entitlement commissions: one for Social Security and one for 
Medicare-Medicaid and make recommendations so we can act on what is a 
multi-trillion-dollar deficit in Social Security and over a $40 
trillion debt on Medicare and Medicaid.

Unless we address these long-term entitlement issues, there is no way 
we are going to be able to prevent the majority of Americans' taxes 
from being devoted to those two programs. So we need to establish those 
commissions and we need to put them to work and we need to put them to 
work right away.

Now, I am told there is general agreement. Why not do it now? Why not 
do it now? We also need better accountability, better transparency, 
better oversight, and better results. Among many disappointments we 
have over TARP, one was that we were told the Congress and the American 
people would have oversight and transparency, and they would know 
exactly how that initial $350 billion was being spent.

The American people and Members of Congress have been bitterly 
disappointed as TARP shifted from one priority to another. Funds went 
to the automotive industry, which none of us had anticipated when we 
voted for and approved it. We need more transparency and accountability 
and oversight of how this, probably the biggest single emergency 
spending package in the history of this country, is being spent.

I notice I have other Members here who wish to speak on this issue. I 
hope we can pass this alternative, some $421 billion, to what has now 
surged to over $1 trillion. It probably may not pass for the reasons of 
numbers, but if we do not sit down and negotiate and come up with a 
package that is more than a $50- or $60- or $80 billion reduction, when 
we are talking about $1.2 trillion, the American people will not be 
well served.

They will not be well served by requiring Davis-Bacon, they will not 
be well served by requiring ''Buy American,'' they will not be well 
served by spending their hard-earned dollars on unnecessary programs 
that even though in the eyes of some may have virtue, have no or very 
little association with job creation and relief for Americans who are 
struggling to stay in their homes and either keep their jobs or go out 
and find a new one.

I believe the United States of America will recover from the economic 
crisis. I have a fundamental faith, belief, that American workers are 
the most productive, the most innovative, and the best in the world. 
But they need some help right now. What they need is the right kind of 
help.

I urge my colleagues, when you see the money that is being spent in 
the name of job creation and stimulus that is laying a debt burden on 
our children and our grandchildren, we need to have serious 
consideration of this kind of spending because it is not fair, not only 
to this generation of Americans but to future generations as well.

I yield the floor.