---
---

# None
## `dfa519ac1c514feb861af0a1dbe2bc74`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER â€” 16 October 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, H. Res. 742 provides for consideration of H.R. 2102, 
the Free Flow of Information Act, under a structured rule. The rule 
provides 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the 
chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary.

I rise to speak today on one of the most critical issues that faces 
our democracy, the freedom of the press and the sacred historic 
protection afforded to journalists allowing them not to reveal their 
sources.

Understanding this, in 1799, one of our Founding Fathers, Thomas 
Jefferson, said, ''Our citizens may be deceived for a while, and have 
been deceived; but as long as the presses can be protected, we may 
trust to them for light.''

Madam Speaker, with the birth of this new Nation came a government 
that was designed to be open and transparent to its people and held 
accountable for its actions. America's Founding Fathers established and 
implemented a system of checks and balances to ensure that one branch 
of government could not unilaterally impose its will on the others, 
aggressively overstep its authority, or greedily infringe upon the 
rights of its citizens.

Beyond the checks and balances of government is an often overlooked, 
but equally important, element of our system: the freedom of the press. 
Embodied in the first amendment, this right grants active citizens and 
vocal journalists the power to expose corruption and misbehavior 
committed by those elected and appointed to office. They serve as 
protectors of our democracy and work to make up for our system's 
failings where they exist.

Ensuring the free flow of information and providing protection for 
whistleblowers is vital to a free society. The Watergate scandal 
epitomized the value of the free press and, with it, the need to 
protect the relationship between journalists and their confidential 
sources.

For a moment, I would like my colleagues to consider a reality in 
which journalists could routinely be forced to reveal the names of 
their informants, and where sources could undoubtedly become reluctant 
to share important information that is unknown to the public.

Think of the scandals that journalists have revealed just in the last 
few years: The Central Intelligence Agency's clandestine prisons across 
Eastern Europe; Jack Abramoff's trading expensive troops for political 
favor from lawmakers; our veterans returning home from Iraq and 
Afghanistan to dilapidated, unsafe, unsanitary facilities at Walter 
Reed Medical Center. Make no mistake, confidential sources made these 
reports possible.

And I would be remiss if I did not ask my colleagues, would we rather 
be unaware of these incidents because shield laws don't exist and our 
reporters are too afraid of prosecution when doing their jobs?

The past 6 years have produced one disturbing reminder after another 
that the legitimacy of our government and the integrity of our 
democracy are dependent on the ability of journalists to protect their 
sources. From uncovering the horrifying incidents of detainee abuse at 
Abu Ghraib to revealing the administration's covert domestic spying 
program, the press managed to expose illegal actions by the executive 
branch when Congress refused to do so.

The public has long valued this relationship as critical to the 
functioning of an open and free media. Unfortunately, the court record 
has been more mixed.

In December of 1972, the Supreme Court ruled that the journalist-
source relationship is not protected under the Constitution. That 
ruling has allowed journalists to be forced to testify before grand 
juries about their sources. In response, individual States across the 
country enacted their own journalist shield laws to guarantee that a 
member of the press can continue to maintain their anonymous sources 
without fear of prosecution.

In fact, 49 States and the District of Columbia all provide some form 
of shield law. But there is still no Federal statute providing 
uniformity. Now, recent Federal court cases are, again,


challenging the critically important relationship between journalists 
and their sources, arguing that State interests supersede those of a 
free press.

And according to The Washington Post, in recent years, more than 40 
reporters have been questioned about their sources, notes and stories 
in civil and criminal cases.

The Free Flow of Information Act before us today would, for the first 
time on the Federal level, explicitly protect journalists and their 
sources from the kind of vengeful legal actions that threaten to keep 
all those necessary whistles unblown.

Unless Congress passes a comprehensive shield law that will guarantee 
the rights of journalists to speak with anonymous sources and ensure 
their confidentiality, the freedom of the press will be undermined 
along with the public good it has the power to defend. Any such bill 
must, of course, take into account the legitimate needs of our 
government, and this bill does that.

Madam Speaker, should we in any way compromise the freedom of the 
press, we will deny our citizens their right to be informed about their 
government and retreat from the true nature of the political system 
that made our government unique. Our forefathers saw fit to enshrine 
this belief in the very first sentences of our Bill of Rights, and this 
Congress must continue to guarantee those rights.

And today, Madam Speaker, as we debate extending these protections to 
the press, we must pause to remind the press of their obligation to the 
public.

I regret to say that, for much of the recent past, some of the press, 
which was intended to be the watchdog of our government, quickly 
transformed into nothing more than a mouthpiece, exemplified in its 
coverage and lack of questions on the Iraq war.

Madam Speaker, we saw time and time again the tough questions 
expected by the American people before and after the invasion in Iraq 
replaced with nothing more than patriotic propaganda and White House 
talking points.

Embedded journalists were fed information and painted rosy scenarios 
of our invasion and occupation. Those who were skeptical and challenged 
this spoon-fed information were discredited and sometimes even fired 
for so much as questioning the actions of the war and this government.

Thomas Jefferson said, again, and I quote, ''The press is impotent 
when it abandons itself to falsehood.''

With all the wonderful protections of the first amendment of the 
Constitution of the United States, the press must not only be vigilant, 
but it must be courageous.

And we all remember that it is the prime directive of the press to 
inform the people. It is their duty to ask the tough questions when the 
American people are unable to do so. It is their responsibility to 
shine light on government actions, secret or mundane, and to hold it 
accountable.

And let me finish by asking this simple question. Will the press pay 
as much attention to Blackwater as they did to Whitewater? I certainly 
hope so.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.