---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `dfa89bb24f8f34f794cd7cb59cc7cd04`
`Mr. WARNER — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. I thank the Presiding Officer. I thank the two managers 
of this very important nomination.

Mr. President, I have the deepest respect for my colleague, Senator 
McCain. We have an association that goes back some 30 years. It is not 
often we are on different sides of an issue. I wish to respect Senator 
McCain's evaluation of a military officer. I think probably he is as 
well qualified as anyone in this Chamber to speak to those critical 
issues.

I bring a different perspective to this nomination. There is going to 
be, clearly, a division of thought as to General Casey and his role as 
the senior officer in charge of our combat missions in Iraq. But I wish 
to clearly say that throughout the history of the United States, the 
doctrine is civilian control over the military.

True, we hold accountable, as best we can, those who we feel have not 
carried out their responsibilities in the best interests of the 
country. I believe the accountability of General Casey has been spoken 
to by the general himself. He recognizes mistakes were made, and I 
think he accepted that level of accountability he, as a military 
officer, had. But, indeed, it is the civilians above him, if there is 
greater wrong, who should be held accountable.

Second, I think of the institution of the U.S. Army. The Chief of 
Staff is the very pinnacle of the military service, and those 
nominations are exceedingly carefully thought out from the President on 
down through the Department of Defense before a nomination goes 
forward.

I was privileged for some many years to serve as the Navy Secretary 
and witness the careful process that went through selecting a chief of 
service. I was personally involved in two of those processes for the 
U.S. Navy. So I say to my colleagues, do take into consideration the 
differing views of Senator McCain and others eminently qualified to 
assess this nomination, but I believe this nomination was carefully 
thought through at all levels. It represents the institution of the 
U.S. Army, and they have to take pride in their senior Chief of Staff.

I believe that General Casey, when one looks at the entirety of the 
record, is deserving of the support of colleagues in the Senate.

I yield the floor.