---
---

# JOB CREATION IN AMERICA
## `dfa94e44da7a39949b76adece69e7774`
`Mr. AKIN — 2 December 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Just reclaiming my time, what you're talking about is the 
old proverb of killing the goose that lays a golden egg. Here is the 
thing that's a little bit tricky, because if you think about it, the 
government goes to hire somebody to build a highway. You say, Well, 
that's a good job. Somebody is building a highway. Well, it's true that 
for some period of time--and you put the emphasis on temporary--that 
job is there as long as we are taxing somebody to get the money in 
order to hire that guy. The way that economics works is that for every 
job, by taking taxpayers' money and creating a job with the government, 
what we do is we kill 2.2 jobs in the private sector.

So effectively, what you're doing is a very inefficient means of 
bleeding part of the sector that creates the real jobs and creating 
temporarily a government job. My son is in Afghanistan. We have places 
where the Federal Government hires people. They're legitimate jobs that 
need to be done, but all of those things are balanced on the back of 
the private sector. If you get too greedy and you start to squeeze the 
private sector enough, not only do you make it sick, you can kill it. 
And that's what was done during the Great Depression. They started 
taxing those small businesses so much and put so many regulations on 
them that they killed them, and they went out of business.

And that's what's starting to happen, and that's what frightens me 
terribly about the approach that we've got here. As I started this 
evening, I talked about what are the things that destroy jobs, and you 
just intuitively--you are talking about the people of Pennsylvania and 
about the businesspeople, you know, those courageous, quiet souls that 
go out and take the risks, not knowing whether they're going to end up 
sleeping under a park bench if their business goes out. They've put 
their whole life into it. They've invested in a new piece of equipment. 
And in the process, they create wealth and create jobs and stuff, those 
people.

Well, what do we do if you really want to hurt them? Well, what we do 
is everything we've been doing for the last year. First of all, it's 
this out-of-control Federal spending on all kinds of wasteful things. 
For instance, that stimulus bill had billions of dollars for community 
organizers like ACORN. We had money in that bill to produce that Web 
site that created congressional districts that don't even exist, 
claiming the jobs were created. That's a waste of money. The next 
thing, as you properly pointed out, is that you start taxing people, 
not only for the stimulus bill, but you tax them on energy.

So now this guy that's got a business, perhaps he uses a fair amount 
of energy, thinks, uh-oh, I'm going to have taxes on energy now. Then 
the issue that you properly pointed out is that you start creating this 
sense of fear and uncertainty. So now you've got red tape and more 
taxes and more taxes. The guy thinks, How in the world am I going to 
make a living with that? That's what's being done not just in Missouri 
and Pennsylvania, but it's being done to our economy because we're 
doing the wrong things. And it's not so complicated because other 
Presidents have shown the right way to go.

Let's just take a look at what we're doing, just hammering them 
fiscally. You started to list them off. First of all, there's the death 
tax, and there's dividends and capital gains. Those are taxes that were 
cut by Bush back in 2001 and '03 in order to get those small 
businessmen up and going. So those have been cut temporarily, and now 
that's going to expire, and what have the Democrats told us? I yield.