---
---

# None
## `dfb9283b0b6223cd147c147ddb4e910c`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ — 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, today I rise in strong support of the American Braille 
Flag Memorial Act, H.R. 4169. I would like to thank my colleague, Mr. 
Tiahrt, for drafting this important piece of legislation and for his 
leadership in this area.

Today, there are nearly 1.3 million blinded and visually impaired 
Americans, and approximately 187,000 of those are veterans. It is 
estimated that 16 percent of these veterans have sustained injuries in 
Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom,


leaving them with some form of severe visual loss and impairment. These 
veterans, due to their disability, are often not afforded the 
opportunity to cherish and witness the American flag as those without 
visual impairment are. That is why passing the American Braille Flag 
Memorial Act is so important. It would authorize the Secretary of the 
Army to place an American Braille tactile flag on the grounds of the 
Arlington National Cemetery to honor the sacrifice of our Nation's 
blind veterans and members of the Armed Forces.

This legislation would also allow the Secretary of the Army to 
approve the appropriate design of the flag, as well as the site in the 
Arlington National Cemetery that would be most appropriate for the 
memorial, which I understand is likely to be at the visitors center. 
The bronze Braille American flag, generously donated by the Kansas 
Braille Transcription Institute, would include the Pledge of 
Allegiance, and allow the blind and visually impaired to feel the Stars 
and Stripes and colors of the American flag placed near Arlington 
National Cemetery Visitors Center.

I am pleased that the Blind Veterans Association, the American 
Council and American Foundation of the Blind wholeheartedly support 
this piece of legislation. Our efforts today will show the over 4 
million visitors who come to the Arlington National Cemetery each year 
that we remember and honor the blind veterans who died in service to 
our Nation, as well as all veterans and servicemembers who live today 
with blindness and vision loss.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation provides a way to include all Americans 
in this wonderful patriotic experience when visiting Arlington National 
Cemetery and seeing the American flag where heroes are laid to rest. I 
am told that when feeling miniature mock-up versions of the Braille 
flag, blinded veterans and servicemembers often break down and cry.

It would only be appropriate to allow our blind and visually impaired 
veterans and servicemembers to share this experience by paying tribute 
and honoring them with the recognition they deserve at the hallmark of 
American memorials, the Arlington National Cemetery.

I urge my colleagues to support the passage of H.R. 4169 without 
delay.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.