---
---

# INCREASING THE STATUTORY LIMIT ON THE PUBLIC DEBT
## `dfbb93c56ec66e3e6cdd774b308dfbe7`
`Mr. BEGICH â€” 26 January 2010`

---


Mr. BEGICH. Madam President, I rise today to support the Conrad-Gregg 
amendment. Our economic recovery and our Nation's long-term economic 
health are at risk. Americans are watching and waiting for Congress and 
the administration to do the right thing and not accept the status quo.

Deficit and debt will rise to an unprecedented level in the coming 
decades without major changes in our fiscal policies. As of today, our 
national debt has reached a staggering $12.3 trillion. It has continued 
to climb at an average of $3.89 billion per day since the fall of 2007.

I am not complaining. Like you, we are freshmen here. But we were 
dealt the cards and we have the responsibility to take care of it and 
handle it. If we do not address this, the Federal debt will go 
skyrocketing from 53 percent of our gross domestic product at the end 
of fiscal 2009 to more than 300 percent of GDP in 2050. If we take no 
action, that will be almost three times the existing record which was 
set back when the debt had reached 122 percent of GDP at the end of 
World War II. That would leave the economy vulnerable to significant 
harm.

Since 2001 we have acted as though debts and deficits did not matter. 
The national debt has nearly doubled since then because of the way we 
have paid for things such as wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the Bush 
tax schemes. Congresses of the past dealt with these by not paying for 
them and that has made the recession worse. We are on track to double 
it yet again. Our economic future is on the line and we must work 
together to fight for stability and a solution.

The fiscal situation is wreaking havoc in my own State of Alaska. 
Alaska's unemployment rate is at a record level of 8.4 percent. Our 
economic security clearly is at risk. China is our No. 1 creditor and 
has put us on notice regarding their concerns about American economic 
decisions. What would happen if China and other foreign nations decided 
they would no longer engage in financial relationships with the United 
States? The answer is frightening: higher taxes and interest rates.

To my friends across the aisle, let's put aside partisan politics and 
do what is right for the American people. Many of you are preparing to 
vote against raising the debt limit as well as the Conrad-Gregg 
amendment and others. In fact, six of my Republican friends withdrew 
their support for this amendment this past Friday, just 24 hours before 
the Obama administration endorsed it. What does that say to the 
American people? What does it say to the American families trying to 
balance their family budgets? It says politics as usual.

I know my own constituents expect me to play by the same rules they 
do, to be responsible and pay the bills. I remind all of you that 
increasing the debt limit does not authorize a single cent of new 
spending. It simply enables


the Government to pay the bills and prevents the truly dire consequence 
that would cripple us if the nation were ever in a position of being in 
a default.

You have a unique opportunity to show Americans that you are willing 
to put aside your political differences for economic security and the 
future of this country. I call upon my six colleagues to reconsider and 
join me in doing the right thing.

Americans are frustrated by the political games that are played here 
in Washington. I stand here before you wondering if some of my friends 
across the aisle are suffering from amnesia. How is it that so many of 
my Republican colleagues voted seven times to raise the debt limit when 
they were in the majority and voted at least that many times for 
policies and spending that were not paid for, but today they stand 
prepared to vote against America simply paying the bills? I call upon 
my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support the Conrad-Gregg 
amendment or, if that fails, other options that I know will be prepared 
by Senator Baucus and others. It is critical that we deal with this 
deficit.

Again, I am not complaining. I got elected. I ran for this office. We 
were dealt the cards and it is the responsibility of this Congress to 
step up, pay the bills, and look at the long-term future. As Senator 
Bennet laid out, speaking about his family, his child doesn't want to 
pay the bill in the future. We have a responsibility and it is a 
painful responsibility because the bills have mounted and there has 
been a lack of that responsibility over the last decade plus. But it is 
incumbent upon us to reach across the aisle and figure out the right 
solution for the long term.

I yield the remainder of my time.