---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `dfc904c6e73d24fe3e75a58fcbeb3696`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 6599, Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs Act, 2009. This legislation builds 
upon last year's needed increases in military construction and veterans 
affairs funding, and continues to make our veterans a top priority.

As a veteran, I am pleased that H.R. 6599 provides more support for 
our veterans. H.R. 6599 includes a total of $47.7 billion for the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. $40.8 billion supports the Veterans 
Health Administration, VHA, and Veterans Medical Services, which 
expects to serve over 5.8 million patients next year. To improve access 
to care for our veterans, H.R. 6599 provides $200 million for fee-based 
providers where VHA services are not available. The bill also raises 
the travel reimbursement rate from 28.5 cents per mile to 41.5 cents 
per mile to help thousands of rural veterans get care. A continuing 
backlog at the VA forces our veterans to wait far too long to receive 
the benefits that they have earned. This bill will enable the VA to 
hire 1,400 new casework processors. Our veterans are men and women who 
have answered the call of duty to serve our country, and we have a duty 
to provide them with the best possible care when they return.

This bill addresses the specific issues that we see affecting our 
soldiers returning today from Iraq and Afghanistan. H.R. 6599 provides 
a $250 million increase to support prosthetics and new prosthetic 
technology, as well as $3.8 billion for specialty mental health 
services and $584 million for substance abuse programs. This is funding 
that can help address the growing incidence of post traumatic stress 
disorder and traumatic brain injury cases among our returning soldiers.

As the Representative of Fort Bragg, one of the largest United States 
Army bases in the country, I am pleased that this bill addresses the 
needs of our military installations. This bill includes $24 billion for 
military construction, including an increase of $300 million for 
replacing inadequate military housing. Fort Bragg is expanding rapidly, 
and there are crucial funds in this bill to meet new demands. H.R. 6559 
includes over $21 million for road construction and $78 million for on-
base school constructions, to meet the needs of the influx of people at 
Fort Bragg. In addition, this bill includes $1,300,000 that I requested 
to construct a new mass casualty facility at Womack Army Medical Center 
for triage and decontamination purposes for the surrounding area. H.R. 
6599 provides $5.6 billion for new military construction and family 
housing, in line with the ''Growing the Force'' initiative to increase 
the size of the Army, Marine Corps and National Guard and Reserve. 
Finally, I am pleased that there is an increase of $1.8 billion for the 
Base Realignment and Closure Act, BRAC, to continue these efforts.

I support H.R. 6599, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Act, 
2009, and I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for its passage.