# PROVIDING FOR FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5658, DUNCAN HUNTER  NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `dfdd539f148dfb8e329de73eb086a513`
`Mr. ARCURI — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. ARCURI. I thank my friend and colleague from California for 
yielding time to me.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support today of this rule, the fiscal 
year 2009 Defense Authorization Act, which this year is appropriately 
named after the distinguished Republican ranking member, Mr. Hunter.

I commend Chairman Skelton and the entire House Armed Services 
Committee for their ability to work in a strong bipartisan fashion to 
produce a defense authorization bill that will enhance our Nation's 
security by providing our troops with superior equipment, and improve 
the quality of life for our servicemembers and their families by 
providing a 3.9 percent pay raise for all servicemembers, and require 
the administration to provide the American people with more 
transparency and accountability regarding the funding of the war in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

When it comes down to it, maintaining a strong national defense and 
providing for our troops should never be a partisan issue. We can 
disagree regarding specific provisions and proposals on occasion, but 
the fact remains that the American people want bipartisan solutions 
from Republicans and Democrats. That moves our Nation forward, and that 
is exactly what this rule and the underlying defense authorization will 
do.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, I would just like to urge my colleagues to 
resist the temptation to point fingers and be partisan on this issue 
with the farm bill. We need to work in a bipartisan way, because this 
is what is important to America's farmers, and very, very important to 
America. By passing this rule and the defense authorization bill today, 
we can prove to the American people that bipartisanship still exists 
inside the walls of Congress.