---
---

# None
## `dfe362260d488f2782cc832e1fdf3149`
`Mr. DORGAN — 8 March 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, I have an amendment pending, as my 
colleagues know, that I cannot get a vote on. I don't know whether the 
other side will relent and give us a vote on the amendment. I offered 
it a week ago today. The amendment deals with the issue of al-Qaida. 
This bill is about


the recommendations by the 9/11 Commission. It has been, I am told, 
2,002 days since 9/1/2001. I was sitting in the Capitol that morning at 
a Democratic leadership meeting on that side of the Capitol with 
windows that looked out to the east.

We saw first on the television set the airplanes that attacked the 
World Trade Center. We saw the second plane fly into the second 
building of the World Trade Center. We then saw black smoke rising from 
the Pentagon that morning. Then this building was evacuated.

That has been a long while ago. Yet it seems like only yesterday. We 
looked up into the real bright blue sky that morning and saw F-16 
fighter jets flying air cover over this Nation's capital.

We discovered later, because they boasted about it, that it was al-
Qaida--Osama bin Laden, al-Zawahiri--who attacked this country and 
murdered several thousand of America's citizens. They boasted about it. 
They sent us videotapes, audiotapes telling us they were the ones who 
attacked our country.

Well, it is not 9/1/2001 today. It is a couple of thousand days 
later. Those who boasted they attacked this country are now living in 
Pakistan. That does not come from me, that comes from the top terrorist 
official in our country. In fact, both of the top intelligence chiefs 
in our country in the last 2 months have said the following, and I will 
quote them:




 Al Qaeda is the terrorist organization that poses the 


 greatest threat to U.S. interests, including to the Homeland.


Think of that. Nearly 6 years after we were attacked by al-Qaida, we 
are told: The greatest threat to our country--and this is from open 
testimony before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence by Mr. 
Negroponte, the top intelligence head in this country--is al-Qaida.

Here is what he said--this was repeated a couple of weeks ago by his 
successor:

Al-Qaida leaders ''continue to plot attacks against our homeland and 
other targets with the objective of inflicting mass casualties. And 
they continue to maintain active connections and relationships that 
radiate outward from their leaders' secure hideout in Pakistan . . . ''

It has been 2,002 days. Those who killed thousands of Americans, 
those who are now the greatest terrorist threat to our country are 
living in a secure hideout in Pakistan. I would like to understand what 
is a higher priority for this country than to eliminate the leadership 
of al-Qaida, if, in fact, they represent the gravest terrorist danger 
to America. What is a higher priority?

I offer this amendment with my colleague, Senator Conrad. Incidently, 
we offered and passed an amendment on this subject last fall that got 
dropped in conference.

This amendment that is fairly simple. It asks the administration, the 
Director of National Intelligence, and the Secretary of Defense to give 
Congress, every 6 months, a classified report telling us three things. 
First, whether the al-Qaida leadership is still in a secure hideout in 
Pakistan and, if not, where are they?

Second, tell us where they are, based on your knowledge. 
Incidentally, as I said, we have had testimony twice now from the top 
intelligence official in the Government that they are in a secure 
hideout in Pakistan. Second, whether the countries in which they reside 
are cooperating with us in our attempt to eliminate the al-Qaida 
leadership.

Third, our report will require the head of our intelligence and the 
head of the Department of Defense to tell us what additional resources 
they need, if they need additional resources, to capture Mr. bin Laden, 
Mr. Zawahiri, and al-Qaida's leadership.

We are having an aggressive debate in this country about Iraq. We 
should. It is an unbelievably difficult situation. In the shadow of 9/
11, in the shadow of the terrorist threat that emerged immediately from 
9/11, we were told by our intelligence community, by the 
administration, in top secret briefings, that Iraq posed imminent 
danger to this country and possessed weapons of mass destruction.

It turns out the intelligence was not accurate.

There are many reasons for that, some very troubling. But it turns 
out the intelligence was wrong. Nonetheless, the President committed 
troops to battle, and we are in Iraq and have been in that war in Iraq 
longer than for the Second World War. It is a lengthy period. It has 
lasted longer than the Second World War.

In fact, the National Intelligence Estimate was just released a 
couple months ago. A portion has been declassified. It says that most 
of what is happening in Iraq is sectarian violence. Yes, there are some 
al-Qaida in Anbar Province, but the bulk of what is happening in Iraq 
is sectarian violence. Translated, it means there is a civil war going 
on in Iraq.

That does not surprise anybody. Watch the evening news. Read the 
newspapers. We understand and see the evidence of this civil war. The 
question now for our country is, what do we make of a circumstance 
where we now find ourselves having substantial numbers of American 
soldiers in the middle of a civil war in Iraq? How do we respond to 
that? And how do we deal with that?

President Bush, some months ago, presented false choices to our 
country. He said the issue is just stay the course or cut and run. He 
said: I am for staying the course and they are for cutting and 
running--a completely false choice, and he knew it. Later, he said he 
never said ''stay the course,'' but, in fact, he did many times.

But it was never the proper choice, stay the course or cut and run. 
The question is, What is a smart choice for our country? What 
represents our best interests, the best interests of our troops, the 
best interests of our own national interest with respect to the country 
of Iraq?

We are going to leave Iraq. That is not in question. The question is, 
when and how. The American people are not going to have American 
soldiers in the middle of civil strife in Iraq for 6 months, 6 years, 
16 years. We are leaving Iraq. The question is, how and when, and that 
is a worthy debate to have. We have soldiers risking their lives.

Our country has asked soldiers to risk their lives for deployments--
many of them multiple deployments. Yet the country has not gone to war 
with those soldiers. We send soldiers to Iraq to fight, and we are 
told: Go shopping. Soldiers go to war; we go to the mall. This country 
has not asked to be--excuse me, I should say it differently. No one has 
asked this country to be engaged in this war. We are told: Do you know 
what? In this war we should have tax cuts.

In fact, we have already spent somewhere close to $500 billion on the 
war--none of it paid for. We send soldiers to war and then are not 
willing to pay the costs. The cost in lives and treasure for this 
country is substantial. The question that we are coming to grips with 
in this Chamber, finally, at long last, is, what do we make of all of 
this? What kind of strategy do we develop? How do we approach this in a 
way that begins to decide what makes the best sense for this country's 
national interest?

We have had many discussions about that. I think we have arrived at 
some points in that discussion that will make a great deal of sense for 
this country. But even as we discuss Iraq, which is not the central 
front in the war on terrorism, we have people coming to the Congress 
and testifying before our committees and telling us the greatest threat 
to our country--the greatest threat to our country--is al-Qaida. Then 
we go home, as we talk about Iraq in the Senate, and we turn on the 
television set and see that al-Qaida is reconstituting training camps 
in Pakistan, and we see that al-Qaida is ramping up an opportunity with 
the Taliban to begin operations in Afghanistan to threaten the 
Government of Afghanistan.

So what do we make of all of that? Well, there is a giant yawn, it 
seems to me--just a giant yawn. Nobody cares. Nobody says much about 
al-Qaida. If this is the greatest terrorist threat to our country, why 
is it not No. 1 on this country's agenda--eliminating the leadership of 
al-Qaida?

The President says:




 I don't know where bin Laden is. I have no idea and really 


 don't care. It's not that important. It's not our priority.


''I am truly not that concerned about him,'' the President says.

His intelligence chief comes to us and says, ''Al-Qaeda is the 
terrorist organization that poses the greatest


threat to U.S. interests. . . .,'' and we are not concerned about Osama 
bin Laden, the man who boasted about murdering thousands of American 
citizens?

Then we read this in the morning papers:




 Senior leaders of Al Qaeda operating from Pakistan have re-


 established significant control over their once-battered 


 worldwide terror network and over the past year have set up a 


 band of training camps in the tribal regions near the Afghan 


 border, according to American intelligence and 


 counterterrorism officials.



 American officials said there was mounting evidence that 


 Osama bin Laden and his deputy, Ayman al-Zawahri, had been 


 steadily building an operations hub in the mountainous 


 Pakistani tribal area of North Waziristan.


How many warnings do we need? How often do we have to be told? Who 
has to tell us before we understand what are priorities are?

I have offered, with my colleague, Senator Conrad, a simple amendment 
saying: Let's keep our eye on the ball. Every 6 months we should 
receive a classified report to say what is being done about this, where 
is the leadership of al-Qaida. Are they still in a secure hideout or 
hideaway in Pakistan? If so, are the leaders of this country helping us 
to try to eliminate that leadership? What kind of resources are 
necessary?

The President said some long while ago the issue with respect to 
terrorism is not just the terrorists but also those who harbor them. If 
the leadership of al-Qaida is in northern Pakistan, are they being 
harbored by the Government of Pakistan? Oh, I know, I am worried about 
President Musharraf. Sure. We all are. But is the Government of 
Pakistan--reportedly a government that has just made some sort of 
commitment with the Taliban, sort of a nonaggression pact with the 
Taliban, a Taliban that is likely protecting and hiding the leadership 
of al-Qaida--is that in our national interest? I don't think so.

So I offer an amendment, a simple, tiny, little amendment that says: 
Let's keep our eye on the ball. If this is the greatest threat to our 
country, why is it not ranked No. 1? Why is it relegated to an ''I 
don't care; I don't know where he is or they are; it does not matter''?


How about deciding this is a priority.

Why are we not able to get a vote on this amendment? Why, after a 
week, are we not able to get a vote? Why would someone vote against 
this amendment? Why would someone oppose an attempt by our country to 
decide this is a priority? Why don't we have a vote and see if there 
are those who are opposed? I don't know. It is very frustrating. We 
bring a bill to the floor of the Senate dealing with 9/11.

Madam President, 9/11 was very simple and tragic; 9/11 was the day 
that a terrorist organization named al-Qaida hijacked airplanes, used 
those airplanes, full of fuel, as guided missiles, low-tech weaponry, 
to murder thousands of Americans.

We know who did it. They claimed they did it. They boasted about it. 
Now we are told by the top intelligence chief in our country we know 
where they are. And 2,002 days later, they are still there. By the way, 
we still receive messages from them from time to time. They send an 
audio tape or a video tape to Al Jazeera, and they speak to us. So they 
exist. Our intelligence chief says we know they exist and where they 
are.

The question is, why is this country not doing what it is required to 
do to deal with the highest and most significant terrorist threat that 
exists to the United States? I do not understand it.

So the question will be, I guess, in the coming hours, who is 
blocking this amendment? Why are they blocking this amendment? Why on 
Earth would anyone oppose such an amendment? Is the U.S. Congress 
willing to debate these issues, make decisions on these issues? I 
thought it was the great deliberative body in our country. You come to 
the floor of the U.S. Senate and exchange views, and you have a debate, 
a competition of ideas, and you select the best from each rather than 
the worst of both. That is what I thought this was about. I am 
enormously proud to be here. This is a great place. But it is 
enormously frustrating to spend a week on an amendment such as this and 
then discover that there are people who will decide you cannot have a 
vote on an amendment. Why? Because they are worried it might make 
somebody look bad.

This amendment is not about making anybody look bad. It is about 
turning this country to aim at the greatest terrorist threat that is 
described by our top intelligence chief and deciding to do something 
about it.

I come to the floor a third time now talking about this in the 
context of the other issues of Iraq and other matters we will discuss, 
including trying to pass the 9/11 bill. I do so recognizing a lot of 
people have a lot of ideas around here--some good, some bad. We vote on 
many of them. This is an idea we ought to vote on, and we ought to do 
it soon.

Madam President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a 
quorum.