---
---

# SECTION 8 VOUCHER REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `dfee5856bd9ebc54b988e33d47bc468b`
`Mr. AL GREEN of Texas — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Madam Chairman, allow me to first thank the 
chairperson of the Financial Services Committee, Chairperson Frank. He 
has done an outstanding job with his leadership. I also thank the 
Honorable Maxine Waters, the subcommittee chairperson, for her sound 
stewardship; and, of course, Ranking Member Bachus for his 
bipartisanship because it helped to synthesize this piece of 
legislation. And I also thank the cosponsorship of Congresswoman 
Biggert. She has been cogent with her cosponsorship.

Madam Chairman, let me simply say that this is bipartisan legislation 
that we are talking about and the striking of the 100,000 vouchers over 
5 years will put an end to what started as bipartisan legislation in 
the committee. This was passed overwhelmingly in the committee, and it 
was supported by the ranking member of the committee.

This is not, as was indicated, a handout. It is really a hand up for 
the disabled. It is a hand up for the elderly. And it also benefits 
low-income to extremely low-income persons, many of whom are working 
and still not in a position to afford affordable housing. Many of them 
need the kind of help that this bill is providing.

The truth is, and you shall know the truth, and it will set you free. 
So at this moment, I am going to take the ax of truth, slam it into the 
tree of circumstance, and let the chips fall wherever they may. The 
truth is one in seven households in this country spends more than 50 
percent of their income on housing. Three-quarters of a million people 
are homeless on any given night in this country. Congress has not 
provided new section 8 vouchers since 2002. The truth is we can pay for 
one of these vouchers with 2 seconds of what we spend on the war in 
Iraq. We can pay for all of these vouchers with what we spend on 2/1/2/ 
days in Iraq. The truth is the need exists for these vouchers. The 
truth is it is time for Congress to act and to authorize these new 
section 8 vouchers.

Madam Chairman, at this time I would like to yield 1 minute to my 
outstanding colleague Congressman Chris Murphy.