---
---

# None
## `dff021813ebfc2538f5582495fcfacf0`
`Mr. DORGAN — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I wanted to speak about the subject I 
referenced briefly, and that is fiscal policy and this President. It 
gives me no joy to come and be critical of the President's fiscal 
policy. But it should give the American people no joy either to 
understand the consequences of a fiscal policy that turned very large 
budget surpluses, which took us a long time to begin to see, into very 
long-term Federal budget deficits and three trillion dollars of 
additional debt. That is a reckless fiscal policy and one that has to 
be fixed.

When he recently asked the Congress for an additional $196 billion--
none of it paid for, all emergency--the President said: Now we will see 
whether the Congress supports the troops. Well, the fact is, not all 
that money goes to the troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. A substantial 
portion of that money goes to contractors.

I wanted to go through with my colleagues some examples of what we 
are finding with respect to the spending of taxpayers' money for 
contractors. I believe I have held 17 hearings over the recent 4 years 
as chairman of the Policy Committee on these issues.

Let me put up a couple of charts to describe where we are headed.

This is a Congressional Budget Office estimate of October of this 
year. The U.S. wars in Iraq and Afghanistan could cost taxpayers a 
total of $2.4 trillion by 2017 when you count the very large interest 
costs because this is being financed with borrowed money. Again, a 
President who says he is a conservative borrowing all of this money, 
insisting it be borrowed and not paid for, and we end up in this 
country paying a fortune for the war costs.

So the question is, is this money for the troops? Well, let me 
describe what we have. Last month, military officials said contracts 
worth $6 billion to provide essential supplies to American troops in 
Kuwait, Iraq, and Afghanistan--including food, water, and shelter--were 
under review by criminal investigators. In addition, $88 billion in 
contracts and programs, including those for body armor for soldiers and 
material for Iraqi and Afghan security forces, are being audited for 
financial irregularities.

Think of that: $88 billion; $6 billion under criminal investigation; 
$88 billion, financial irregularities by these contractors.

Once again, under this President, last month the Army reported that 
it had 78 cases of fraud and corruption under investigation, had 
obtained 20 criminal indictments, and had uncovered over $15 million in 
bribes.

Another $196 billion, while those who prance around this money have a 
field day. It doesn't seem like conservatism to me.

Again, in August, 2 months ago, the New York Times reported:




 The enormous expenditures of American and Iraqi money on 


 the Iraq reconstruction program, at least $40 billion over 


 all, have been criticized for reasons that go well beyond the 


 corruption cases that have been uncovered so far. Weak 


 oversight, poor planning, and endless security problems have 


 contributed to many of the program failures.


So we ante up money from the United States Congress--billions and 
billions of dollars. We are going to provide health care clinics for 
the Iraqis. We are going to build 142 health care clinics. We hire the 
contractor. The money is gone, but the clinics aren't there. An Iraqi 
doctor--a very courageous Iraqi doctor--testified at one of my 
hearings. He said: I went to the Health Minister in Iraq and said: You 
know, we had these contracts with an American contracting company that 
was going to do these 142 health care clinics in Iraq. I would like to 
visit them. The Iraqi Health Minister said to this physician: You don't 
understand. Most of those are imaginary clinics.


Well, the American taxpayer got fleeced. The money is gone. The 
contractor got the money. The clinics don't exist.

We can't even keep track of the guns that are being sent to Iraq. We 
sent Iraq 185,000 AK-47s, and at this point we know where 75,000 of 
them are; 110,000 are gone and unaccounted for. We sent them 170,000 
pistols, 90,000 of them we can't account for. Are some of these AK-47s 
and pistols being aimed at American troops? Of course they are. How is 
it that we fund with American taxpayers' money the shipment of massive 
quantities of weapons to Iraq and don't keep track of where they are? 
Again, there are 110,000 AK-47s, we don't know where they are, and 
80,000 pistols, we don't know where they are. This is almost staggering 
incompetence, in my judgment.

Saddam Hussein is dead. He was hanged by the neck. The Iraqi people 
no longer have Saddam Hussein in their lives. The Iraqi people voted 
for their own new constitution, and they voted for a new government. 
All that is left for the Iraqi people is to provide for their own 
security. The question is, when will the Iraqi people demonstrate the 
will to provide for their own security?

We have trained 360,000 Iraqis in the interior forces and defense 
forces, soldiers and police men and women--360,000 have been trained, 
and they can't provide for their own defense, for their own security. 
Is there not a will in this country in which Saddam Hussein is gone, a 
new constitution, a new government exists, and they have 360,000 people 
trained, and that training was paid for by this country--is there not a 
will, then, to provide for security? If they can't, we can't. We are 
not going to provide security in Iraq for the next 5 or 10 years. We 
should not be going door to door in Baghdad in the middle of a civil 
war with U.S. soldiers.

But it seems to me we should reasonably ask the question: If we have 
trained 360,000 for security in Iraq, and they can't provide for their 
own security, where are they? We are now told that up to 50 percent of 
those we have trained are probably not on the job anymore. We don't 
know where they are.

I also just saw information a couple of days ago that the number of 
people


we are training has dropped by two-thirds. I mean, everyone talks 
about--including the President--the way out of Iraq is to train the 
Iraqis for their own security. We have trained a third of a million of 
them and now we have reduced the amount of training by two-thirds and 
now we have a surge of American soldiers going door to door in Baghdad 
in the middle of a civil war. I am just saying I don't think that adds 
up in the context of what this administration is asking of this 
Congress.

Between April 2003 and June of 2004, $12 billion in U.S. currency, 
much of it in one-hundred-dollar bills, was dispersed by the Coalition 
Provisional Authority. That is us. We airlifted billions of dollars in 
C-130s. Some of it was shoveled out the back of pickup trucks in 
Baghdad. You think that doesn't attract flies and people who want to 
cheat and steal? It does. What happened? About $9 billion has gone 
missing, unaccounted for, in a frenzy of mismanagement and greed, it is 
said.

ADM David Oliver, who was a senior official of the Coalition 
Provisional Authority was asked by a reporter about what happened to 
the cash that was airlifted to Baghdad. Our official said:




 I have no idea. I can't tell you whether the money went to 


 the right things or didn't. Nor do I actually think it's 


 important.


Oh, really? You don't think it is important whether billions of 
dollars was used for the proper purpose?

An independent oversight agency reported this month that it could not 
complete an audit of a $1.2 billion contract to train Iraqi police 
because records kept by the State Department and by DynCorps 
International, the contractor, were inaccurate and in disarray, 
documents not sufficient to do any kind of an audit.

The State Department paid $43.8 million for manufacturing and 
temporary storage of a residential camp that has never been used. They 
paid $36.4 million for weapons and equipment, including body armor, 
armored vehicles, and communications equipment that couldn't be 
accounted for.

Among the problems identified before an audit--this is a New York 
Times story of this month--were duplicate payments, the purchase of a 
never-used $1.8 million x-ray scanner, and payments of $387,000 to 
house DynCorps officials in hotels rather than other available 
accommodations.

My colleagues get my point. I could show 100 charts which would all 
show in my judgment massive, staggering incompetence and lack of 
oversight of these contracts.

The President says: I want $196 billion in emergency funding, none of 
it paid for, and by the way, if you don't support that, you are not 
supporting the troops. Well, a substantial amount of this money is 
supporting contractors, not troops, and there is substantial evidence 
that there is dramatic waste, fraud, and abuse of these contracts, and 
no one seems to care. No one seems to be watching the store. That goes 
for the Defense Department, the Secretary of State, and many others, 
including the White House.

Finally, when we vote on the issue of whether we should provide 
additional emergency funding for the President, and yes, for the 
troops, and also for these contractors, I am going to suggest something 
very different. Some things are habit forming, and one of them, it 
seems to me, is to ask the Congress to increase spending substantially 
and not pay for it. This President has done this now to the tune of 
two-thirds of $1 trillion for the war in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Aside from the fact that I think it is wrong because it doesn't have 
the country going to war with the soldiers--it seems to me if you send 
soldiers to war, you also ought to ask the country to be with those 
soldiers, not just with their thoughts and prayers but also to pay for 
the cost, rather than charge it to some future generation and have the 
soldiers fight the battle, and then come back to our country and pay 
the bills for those battles.

So I have said to my colleagues, and I would say to the President, 
when we consider this issue of additional funding, I am going to offer 
this time some ways to pay for a portion of it, and I am going to give 
some examples. I have used many of these before, but this time, we will 
have a chance to vote on them. Maybe I will win, maybe I will lose, I 
don't know. But it seems to me we ought to do some things that are 
thoughtful and patriotic, even as we decide that we are going to 
provide support to our troops.

Let me give an example.

Let me give you an example. I have used this many times. This is a 
five-story white building in the Cayman Islands. A very enterprising 
reporter from Bloomberg named David Evans went to that building. It is 
on Church Street. That five-story white building is home to 12,748 
corporations. They are not actually there, of course; it is legal 
fiction that was created by smart lawyers to give corporations an 
address in the Cayman Islands so they can avoid paying U.S. taxes. I 
have legislation that says it doesn't matter if you are living in this 
building, you are not going to be able to avoid taxes by doing that; if 
your operations are not there, you cannot attempt to ''move'' your 
operations there to avoid paying U.S. taxes. I will attempt to close 
that.

This is one of the most egregious. Wachovia Bank in the United States 
is one of the most prominent companies to do this. They purchased a 
sewage system in Bochum, Germany. It is not because they have a special 
interest in sewage systems. They don't want a sewage system. They 
bought it and immediately leased it back to the German city, which 
never lost it, and the Wachovia Bank never got it. They just had a 
financial transaction that gave an American bank a $175 million tax 
writeoff for the sham of buying a sewer system in Germany.

Mr. President, only a portion of this practice has been shut down. I 
will give my colleagues a chance to shut that down and also raise 
revenue to begin to pay for some of the costs of the war as well.

This one is a streetcar in Dortmund, Germany. We had First Union Bank 
lease streetcars there--not for the purpose of running a streetcar 
system; they wanted to avoid paying U.S. taxes. That is a scandal.

I will also offer a piece of legislation that will shut down the tax 
scam that says if you fire your workers, close your plant, and move 
your jobs overseas, as Huffy Bicycles did, we will give you a tax cut. 
It is unbelievable that we provide that tax cut in this country. If you 
get rid of your American workers, shut down your plant, move overseas, 
and then ship the product back here, you get a tax deferral. Huffy is 
now a Chinese bike company. All the workers in Ohio got fired, and the 
American tax system gave a reward to this company for moving to China.

We have had a chance--four times--to vote on this, and a majority in 
the Senate supported that tax break. One of these days, it will get 
closed. We will vote on that in the context of paying for some of the 
costs the President is asking us to pay for.

Finally, just two more.

This is, as you know, a picture of the dancing grapes from Fruit of 
the Loom. We have seen the television commercials. I don't know why 
someone would dress up as a grape and dance, but they made an imprint 
for Fruit of the Loom underwear before they left America. I assume they 
are still dancing, but I assume those who lost their jobs when Fruit of 
the Loom went to Mexico and other countries are not dancing. It is not 
that people stopped wearing underwear, but they are not making them in 
the United States.

Finally, the little red wagon--Radio Flyer, a Chicago company for 
over a century--is now made in China. It was for the same purpose: tax 
cuts and low wages in China. I am going to close that loophole with 
respect to the description I have just given of moving your company to 
China and getting a tax cut.

The point is, the President wants $196 billion in emergency funding. 
I don't know whether the Congress will do that. When the President asks 
for funding in the future, saying he wants to charge this, leave 
office, and then somebody else can pay the bill, we in Congress ought 
to say that there are easy baby steps to at least begin raising some 
funding. I have named three of them. We can stop American companies 
from benefitting from buying sewage systems or streetcars in other 
countries, stop paying an incentive for people to move American jobs 
overseas, and stop allowing companies to set up sham offices on Church 
Street in the Cayman Islands to avoid paying U.S. taxes.



It doesn't take a giant step or a lot of courage to decide to shut 
down those tax scams and those wrongheaded, perverse economic 
incentives. Doing that will raise money and allow us to offset some of 
these war costs. And I hope that perhaps--I know better than to say 
this. I was going to say that perhaps the President will support this. 
But this administration opposes most of the proposals I have described 
that would raise funding by shutting down some of these terrible 
loopholes.

This issue of if the President asks the Congress for $196 billion--
which he has now done in emergency money, with none of it paid for, and 
says: Now we will see whether the Congress supports the troops, I want 
my colleagues to understand that a substantial portion of this money is 
not going to troops, but it is going to contractors. I think this is 
the most substantial waste, fraud, and abuse that has existed in the 
history of this country, with respect to what is going on with the 
contractors. That is something we should be considering or a portion of 
what we should consider as well as we react to the President's 
proposal. Who is minding the store? Who is providing real oversight? 
Why have we allowed this to happen? Those represent the hard questions 
I believe Congress has a responsibility to ask.

We all want the right thing for this country. I think we all want to 
be able to extract ourselves from a war in the Middle East, to be 
successful in the fight against terrorism, to expand opportunities with 
an economy that provides jobs and expand the middle class in this 
country. We all want to fix the health care system and provide 
solutions to our energy needs so that we are not so unbelievably 
dependent on foreign sources of energy. We all want that. I hope in the 
coming weeks, particularly as we end this year, we can find ways to 
decide to work together. There ought to be common purpose and a common 
set of goals for us to advance the interests of this country.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum 
and ask unanimous consent that the time be equally charged to both 
sides.