---
---

# None
## `dff27d1693ffd2f1cdb51592ed0a1450`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 18 April 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, last Wednesday, April 11, terrorists 
exploded two bombs in Algiers, Algeria, killing 33 people and wounding 
over 200. The terrorist organization al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb 
took credit for the attacks, which targeted the Algerian Prime 
Minister's office and a police station.

The attack occurred 1 day--1 day--after three would-be suicide 
bombers blew themselves up in Casablanca, Morocco, killing a police 
officer in the process. A fourth individual was shot before he could 
detonate his bomb. It also preceded, by only 3 days, attacks by two 
more would-be suicide bombers in Casablanca, Morocco, this time outside 
the American consulate and the American Language Center. The consulate 
subsequently closed.

While a link between the Algeria bombings and the terrorists in 
Morocco has not yet been established, the confluence of these events 
demonstrates an increasingly deadly and dangerous situation in North 
Africa, for the region, for the United States, and for our friends and 
our allies.

The bombings should also remind us of the need to be more globally 
focused in the fight against al-Qaida and its affiliates, which must be 
our national security priority. Yet the administration, fixated on 
Iraq, remains narrowminded in its focus and seemingly almost 
indifferent to last week's attacks in North Africa.

Until last fall, al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb was known as the 
Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat, or GSPC. It has been described 
by the State Department as a regional terrorist organization which 
recruits and operates in Algeria, Morocco, Nigeria, Mauritania, and 
Tunisia, as well as in Europe.

In 2005, GSPC killed 15 people at a military outpost in Mauritania. 
Police in France, Italy, and Spain have arrested individuals suspected 
of providing support to the organization. GSPC has also called France 
''public enemy number one.'' A French counterterrorism magistrate has 
described GSPC as the biggest terrorist threat facing his country 
today.

Last year, al-Qaida leadership announced its formal ties to the GSPC, 
raising concerns about the extension of al-Qaida's deadly reach. In 
testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee this February, FBI 
Director Mueller warned of the possible consequences of


this alliance, including to the United States. According to Mueller's 
testimony:




 Al-qaida has made efforts to align itself with established 


 regional terrorist groups such as the GSPC that may expand 


 the scope of the threat to the Homeland.


Despite this clear threat, our Nation barely took notice of the 
attacks last week. The State Department issued a brief statement. The 
White House said virtually nothing--or nothing. Vice President Cheney 
mentioned them during a radio interview on Friday and again on Sunday, 
but only in passing, as a part of his repeated efforts to try to link 
9/11 to the war in Iraq and to support an endless and disastrous war 
that is emboldening the members of al-Qaida and other terrorist 
organizations.

Let me read exactly what the Vice President said:




 We had--just this week there were attacks in Algeria and 


 Morocco by al-Qaida, bombings that were aimed at killing 


 innocent civilians. It is a global conflict, by anybody's 


 measure. And it is clearly against some of the world's worst 


 offenders, and Iraq is very much a part of that. It is, right 


 now, the central front on that global conflict.


Amazingly, the only comments by the White House on these horrific 
attacks in north Africa were to insist that a terrorist attack in 
Algeria somehow proved that Iraq, more than 2,000 miles away, is the 
central front in the war on terrorism. The Vice President's assertions 
are not just factually wrong, they are offensive to the people murdered 
in Algeria last week, as well as their families and all those working 
hard to capture these terrorists. It is also indicative of everything 
that is wrong with this administration's national security policies.

We should be directing our attention and resources to combating the 
threat posed by al-Qaida and its affiliates, wherever they may be. As 
we all know, this is not a conventional war. It requires better 
intelligence, better cooperation with friends and allies, stronger 
regional institutions, and diplomatic and economic policies designed to 
deny terrorists safe havens. It is not easy, and I have enormous 
respect for the men and women in our intelligence community, diplomatic 
corps, military, and other elements of our Government who are working 
hard to protect us from this threat. We should provide them our full 
support, not only in terms of resources but also with an effective 
global counterterrorism strategy rather than the current myopic and 
misguided focus on Iraq.

First, we must improve our intelligence with regard to threats in 
Africa. The Intelligence authorization bill we were considering in the 
Senate earlier this week includes an amendment I offered with Senator 
Rockefeller calling for more intelligence resources to be directed to 
Africa. If we are to protect our national interests on the continent, 
we must commit ourselves to understanding not only the terrorist 
organizations that operate there but regional conflicts, corruption, 
poor governance, endemic poverty, and the historic marginalization that 
has allowed terrorists and other threats to fester.

Second, we must expand and strengthen our diplomatic and foreign 
assistance activities in the continent. Our presence in far-flung parts 
of Africa, whether it be a new consulate or outpost or an expanded 
USAID development or public health program, exposes local populations 
to our Nation, linking us to parts of the world which, as we know, we 
can no longer afford to ignore. We need to help build strong 
governmental institutions that respect human rights and an equally 
vibrant civil society, while also strengthening the relationship 
between the two.

Third, we need military policies that place counterterrorism in the 
context of a larger, more comprehensive strategy. Policies such as the 
Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Initiative are important, particularly in 
improving the capacities of local governments. But unless they are part 
of bilateral and multilateral policies that emphasize human rights and 
democratization and anticorruption, our military resources may be 
squandered or, worse, may be even directed in counterproductive ways. 
For this same reason, I have supported the establishment of an Africa 
Command within the Defense Department, while insisting that its mission 
be squarely within the broader strategic goals of the United States on 
the continent.

Fourth, we must develop effective policies for dealing with terrorist 
safe havens such as the one in the Sahel where al-Qaida in the Islamic 
Maghreb operates. According to the most recent State Department 
terrorism report, the organization not only trains, recruits, and 
operates in the region, it also raises money, including through 
smuggling. Clearly, confronting this organization requires addressing 
the root causes that have allowed it to develop and operate, whether 
they be poverty or corruption or the lack of government support to and 
presence in the region. We must develop comprehensive policies to 
confront these safe havens, including the settlement of regional 
conflicts and an adequate provision of economic and development 
assistance, so local populations can reject terrorist organizations.

Fifth, we must help governments in the region in their efforts to 
confront terrorist organizations. The most recent State Department 
terrorism report stated that, in Mali, the sheer size of the country 
and the limited resources of the Malian Government ''hamper the 
effectiveness of military patrols and Border Patrol measures.'' The 
report also indicated Mauritania, another country where al-Qaida in the 
Islamic Maghreb operates, lacks funding and resources to combat 
terrorism.

In order to combat international terrorist organizations such as the 
al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb, we need regional strategies that 
address the capabilities and policies of all affected countries on a 
bilateral and multilateral basis. We must expand our assistance to 
these and other countries while ensuring that their counterterrorism 
policies are consistent with ours and that corruption and human rights 
abuses do not undermine efforts to combat terrorist organizations.

Sixth, we must work closely with our European allies. Al-Qaida in the 
Islamic Maghreb is a direct threat to Europe; our allies have every 
incentive to work with us. By working to establish mutually agreed upon 
approaches to counterterrorism, we can develop a strong, coordinated 
strategy that helps keep all of us safer.

Seventh, we must encourage regional institutions to confront 
terrorism. For example, the African Union has established a Center for 
Study and Research on Terrorism to combat terrorism throughout the 
continent. This center and other regional initiatives are worthy of far 
more attention and support than we have thus far provided.

Finally, we must at last recognize that the fight against al-Qaida is 
being undermined by the endless war in Iraq. As the NIE of last April 
concluded, the war has become a ''cause celebre'' for international 
terrorists. Moreover, tactics from Iraq are now being used around the 
world, including by terrorists in Algeria. As the State Department 
terrorism report noted:




 Using lessons from Iraq and wanting to reduce the level of 


 casualties sustained in direct confrontation with Algerian 


 security services, the GSPC carried out attacks using 


 roadside improvised explosive devices. In one act on 


 September 14, GSPC terrorists killed three Algerian soldiers 


 and wounded two others in a military vehicle near Boumerdes 


 by remotely detonating a roadside IED.


The horrific bombings last week in Algiers and the manifest threat in 
Morocco should remind us that our national security does not begin and 
end in Iraq. Indeed, Iraq remains a drain on our national attention to 
resources and an endless distraction from our real national security 
priorities, which is fighting al-Qaida and its affiliates. We cannot 
ignore the rest of the world to focus solely on Iraq. Al-Qaida is 
continuing and will continue to be a global terrorist organization. 
Contrary to what the administration has implied, al-Qaida is not 
abandoning its efforts to fight us globally so it can fight us in Iraq. 
No. Instead, it is forming alliances with groups like the GSPC, and it 
is seeking to attack us and our friends and allies around the world. By 
downplaying this threat, the administration is ignoring the lessons of 
September 11 and endangering our Nation.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.