---
---

# OPPOSITION TO H. RES. 356
## `e0136e46db29742332a384870019d14e`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I rise today with grave concern over H. 
Res. 356. This resolution is based on unfounded allegations and 
misinformation about the Republic of Macedonia, and I urge my 
colleagues to consider the whole story as they review this bill.

For example, the name ''the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 
(FYROM)'' is used throughout this resolution. It is a controversial 
name that Macedonia rejects in favor of its constitutional name, ''The 
Republic of Macedonia.'' This is a position shared by 118 other 
nations, including the United States, which officially recognized 
Macedonia by its constitutional name in 2004.

It is important to note that Macedonia has always emphasized that the 
Republic of Macedonia does not hold exclusive rights over the name 
''Macedonia'' in geographic, cultural, historic, or commercial terms. 
Although Greece objects to Macedonia's constitutional name, the 
Macedonian government rightly believes that one country does not have 
the right to dictate to another country what it can call itself. The 
Republic of Macedonia earned the right to self-determination when it 
declared its independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, and it intends to 
continue to exercise that right.

H. Res. 356 also states that Macedonia produces and distributes 
propaganda asserting a right to territory in Greece, which is also 
untrue. This is based on the fact that Greece and Macedonia both 
include areas of the historic region of Macedonia, and Greece is 
concerned that Macedonia has irredentist ambitions against their 
Macedonian region.

However, in 1995 Macedonia reinforced the ''no-change'' of borders 
provision of their Constitution, adding that they ''have no territorial 
claim against neighboring states.'' Of course, a small, developing 
democracy with only 2 million people could not and will not take over 
land that belongs to Greece, a large, established country of over 10 
million people. Macedonia wants only peace with its neighbor, and has 
repeatedly stated this fact.

In addition, the resolution claims that a Macedonian Military Academy 
textbook contains maps showing that a Greater Macedonia extends many 
miles south into Greece to Mount Olympus and miles east to Mount Pirin 
in Bulgaria.

Not only is the book in question no longer in use in the academy, the 
maps the resolution refers to were originally drawn in the 1800s by 
non-Macedonians. They are presented in a historical light. Furthermore, 
the textbooks used in the general educational system in the Republic of 
Macedonia do not contain any maps of this kind.

H. Res. 356 also mentions that Macedonia's Skopje airport was 
recently renamed ''Alexander the Great'' airport, and implies that 
Macedonia is asserting ''patrimony'' over the historical figure. 
Alexander the Great is a significant figure in human history and part 
of the universal consciousness, over which no country has ownership. 
Another Macedonian airport, in Ohrid, was recently named after 
''Apostle Paul,'' a universally known historic figure, and Macedonia 
has heard little protest.

Contrary to the allegations made in this bill, the Republic of 
Macedonia has actively sought to positively engage in international 
affairs and to negotiate in good faith with its Greek neighbors.

Macedonia has consistently sought to improve relations with Greece, 
even changing its national flag due to Greek concerns in 1995. Although 
political relations between Greece and Macedonia are frozen, Greece is 
the top investor in Macedonia, and bilateral trade is strong.

The Republic of Macedonia is also a committed ally of the United 
States. Macedonia has provided troops to serve alongside our brave men 
and women in Iraq and Afghanistan, and continues to seek full 
membership in NATO and the European Union.

As a Member of Congress with both Macedonian and Greek constituents, 
I follow both Greek and Macedonian issues closely. Given this, it is my 
opinion that H. Res. 356 is confrontational and unnecessary. As 
negotiations between Greece and Macedonia continue on issues including 
the latter country's name, I believe it is important for Members of 
Congress to support the process so that the two countries can resolve 
their differences bilaterally. Inflammatory rhetoric by uninvolved 
parties has the potential to be detrimental to this complex process.

Madam Speaker, thank you for this opportunity to air my concerns 
about this bill. I urge my colleagues to carefully consider all the 
facts about H. Res. 356.



