# None
## `e01ca7dae51d50a911878ce31a54506b`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 July 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I would like open by saying 
inclusion of all members of society regardless of race, creed or color, 
is the strength of our all volunteer Armed Forces. Saturday, July 26, 
2008 will mark the 60th anniversary when President Harry S. Truman 
signed Executive Order 9981 demonstrating the moral courage to ''do 
what was right and honorable''--to integrate the armed forces of our 
country. Since the Revolutionary War, African Americans have 
participated in cod every war or conflict. There were, at the time, 
countless examples of bravery and noteworthy service that spanned from 
Crispus Attucks to the


54th Massachusetts Regiment the Buffalo Soldiers, to the Tuskegee 
Airmen. Service in the greatest war or World War II was the culmination 
of much collective sacrifice and many individual acts of patriotism. 
The decision to issue Executive Order 9981 which integrated the armed 
forces confirmed that diversity is our strength and not our weakness. 
Since the signing of Executive Order 9981, I can forthrightly say that 
our country has been stronger and a better society overall.

President Truman and his advisors recognized that complete racial 
integration at all ranks is an essential prerequisite to a cohesive and 
highly effective fighting force. We see success with the challenges of 
diversity as being critical to national security. One poignant example 
is the way our armed forces were hampered with racial conflict in the 
ranks during the Vietnam conflict in the 1960s and 1970s. This serves 
as an effective lesson on the importance of inclusion and equal 
opportunity at all levels of leadership.

However, there has been progress, and I believe that the U.S. 
Military is a pioneer in providing equal opportunity for its uniformed 
members above and beyond what is usually seen in the civilian 
workforce. In truth, a senior military boardroom is a much closer 
semblance of our society than the average corporate boardroom. But, we 
can and should do better because it is simply the right and necessary 
thing to do. Senior military leadership diversity is a matter of 
strategic importance to the future well-being of our fighting forces. I 
have initiated dialogue with the senior leadership of each service 
branch to lay this issue on the table for a healthy discussion.

Of particular note and at their request, I have met with the 
Commandant of the Marine Corps (General Conway), the Chief of Naval 
Operations (Admiral Roughead) twice, the Secretary of the Army (General 
Casey) and plan to meet with the new Secretary of the Air Force 
(nominee General Schwartz) in the very near future. Their willingness 
to discuss difficult topics and issues is a testament to their 
dedication to finding a suitable and longstanding resolution to 
establishing diversity within DoD. We collectively believe that 
diversity within DoD and more specifically at the most senior or Flag 
officer level is critical to recruiting and retention as well as the 
national security of this nation.

Over the past few years there has been some progress in terms of 
promotion of Flag level officers and assignment to high profile 
positions critical to national security. Two examples are Lieutenant 
General Lloyd Austin currently serving as Commander Multi-National 
Forces (MNF) in Iraq and Major General Walt E. Gaskin who served as the 
Commander Multi-National Forces (MNF) West in Iraq.


It is prudent that we accept the fact that diversity is a necessary 
component within the officer corps of the services and more 
specifically the Flag officer pool. Of greatest importance is the most 
senior flag level rank, which represents the major decision-making and 
influential officer level population within the Department of Defense.

Rather than substituting my interpretation of the myriad ideas 
discussed in my recent meetings, I think it is best to provide a forum 
for all of the principal stakeholders and subject matter experts to 
delve deeper into the issue and provide the Committee on Armed Services 
with their recommendations. I have respectfully laid before the House 
Armed Services Committee language creating a Commission on senior 
military leadership diversity in the House FY09 NDAA.

The Commission will review current policy and programs to provide 
recommendations to the Pentagon to insure that qualified minority and 
female officers are given the same career advancement opportunities as 
their counterparts.

As you know, of the 39 active four-star Generals, there is currently 
only one minority, General Kip Ward of Africa Command (AFRICOM). Of the 
141 three-star level or 0-9 rank Flag level officers, there are only 
six minority Generals and five female Generals. Minorities of African-, 
Hispanic-, Asian-, Pacific Islanders, American Indians, and Native 
Alaskan decent represent slightly over 19 percent of the over 207,000 
officers in the four service branches, but make up over 38 percent of 
the enlisted ranks.

I believe that just as President Truman had the courage to sign 
Executive Order 9981 that integrated the armed services in 1948 that it 
is now time to take a holistic look at the makeup of our officer corps 
from the most junior to the most senior leadership position to insure 
that it is diverse and balanced.

We now have the opportunity in our nation's history to begin to put 
in place a long term solution to the long term challenge of 
establishing diversity at all levels within our military.

I believe that the onus falls our shoulders to provide a continuation 
of the courageous initiative that President Truman undertook in order 
to fully realize integration at all levels within the armed forces and 
in particular at the senior leadership level.

I respectfully request that the Congress continue to support the 
establishment of a Commission to discuss diversity in the officer corps 
and insure equal access to opportunities for the most senior leadership 
ranks of our Armed Forces.
