# SERGEANT DENNIS J. FLANAGAN LECANTO POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `e02d0edc3b23b745b2bc20b4bebc364f`
`Mr. ISSA — 23 April 2007`

---


Mr. ISSA. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I join with my colleague in supporting this naming of the Sergeant 
Dennis J. Flanagan Post Office.

Sergeant Flanagan grew up in Florida and attended high school there. 
He was active and enjoyed sports. He ran cross-country, played soccer, 
and was a cadet commander at the school's Civil Air Patrol squadron. He 
loved learning about American history and hoped that one day he would 
be a history professor.

His commitment to military service began at an early age. He was an 
active member of the Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps, or Junior 
ROTC, where he achieved the rank of first lieutenant during his junior 
year of high school. He began classes in Central Florida Community 
College, but enlisted in the Army a week after September 11.

Sergeant Flanagan was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 327th Infantry 
Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team of the 101st Airborne Division out of 
Fort Campbell, Kentucky. He fought with the air assault infantry that 
led the initial attack in 2003.

Wise beyond his years, he understood that victory could not be 
attained without action. He knew the dangers of war and believed in 
serving his country. After completing his first tour of duty, he re-
enlisted in September of 2005 for a second tour. As an experienced 
soldier, he hoped he could act as a mentor for new soldiers, and he 
wanted to train the Iraqi Army recruits.

On January 20, 2006, Sergeant Flanagan was on patrol in Iraq in his 
Humvee with three other U.S. soldiers and a driver when a roadside 
bomb, or an IED, was exploded near their vehicle. All soldiers were 
wearing protective body armor. However, only the driver survived the 
blast. Sergeant Flanagan was only 22 when he died.

Today we honor the life of Sergeant Flanagan, a soldier who strongly 
believed in the fight for freedom. He was an American hero.

Madam Speaker, I ask all Members to join with me in supporting this 
naming and this bill.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.