# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e02e0d5c30b6e24898bfc4dbc3e01891`
`Mr. WEXLER — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. WEXLER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support for the Fiscal 
Year 2008 Budget Resolution, H. Con. Res. 99. For far too long, the 
former Republican leadership in Congress and the Bush Administration 
were complacent in allowing poor public policy and misguided spending 
priorities to become a driving force behind mounting Federal deficits 
and an ever increasing national debt. Additionally, trillions of 
dollars in tax cuts for the wealthy and billions of dollars for a 
deteriorating war in Iraq have resulted in the President proposing 
repeated cuts to vital domestic priorities such as healthcare, 
education, and the environment.

Today, the House of Representatives is finally considering a budget 
that meets the social and economic needs of the American people, while 
taking the necessary steps toward addressing the mounting fiscal 
hurdles facing the Federal Government.

Our Nation has been in a budgetary crisis for too long. According to 
the Congressional Budget Office, CBO, estimates, President Bush 
inherited an estimated 10-year budget surplus of $5.6 trillion when he 
arrived in office. Today, that same 10-year period (2002-2011) is 
projected to show a budget deficit of $3 trillion under the President's 
policies. The Democratic Budget Resolution will set the country's 
finances back on track by balancing the budget by 2012, and it does 
this without sacrificing programs vital to our national security, our 
economy, and most importantly to the social welfare of the American 
people.

This budget will provide the largest veterans' healthcare spending 
increase in our Nation's history, ensuring that the 1,788,496 veterans 
in Florida receive care worthy of their sacrifice. It will facilitate 
significant increases in healthcare funding to expand access to 
Florida's 733,000 uninsured children, and makes a firm commitment to 
support education and affordable housing programs. It


also promotes environmental protection and conservation, and 
accommodates important energy legislation aimed at investment in 
renewable resources that will move our country toward energy 
independence.

This budget resolution restores the fiscal responsibility and 
accountability that the American people deserve and reflects the values 
and priorities that the American people expect. It is time to put this 
country's finances back on track and truly invest in America's 
prosperity. I urge my colleague to support passage of this important 
resolution.