# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e03252eb5d71775d44c2645642fed876`
`Mr. SHADEGG — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SHADEGG. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I rise to 
discuss a part of this debate that relates to the Intelligence 
Committee, and I think it is important that I thank them for yielding 
me time.

Mr. Speaker, I have argued on this floor that this discussion and 
debate ought to be about more than just Iraq, indeed, that it is about 
the worldwide jihadist movement to attack us. I have argued and quoted 
many jihadist leaders who have said their goal isn't just to win in 
Iraq, but to take that fight to Westerners and, in turn, 
''unbelievers'' throughout the world.

But I am not alone in that view. This is the language of the National 
Intelligence Estimate written last April, and it warns America in very 
simple terms. It sets the case forward in two clear sentences, which I 
hope all of my colleagues have read and thought through.

The first sentence is, ''We assess that . . . perceived jihadist 
success [in Iraq] there would inspire more fighters to continue the 
struggle elsewhere.'' What does that tell you? If they are successful, 
if the jihadists who hate us in Iraq are successful there, they will 
carry that struggle on elsewhere. Ask yourself, where is elsewhere? I 
would suggest to you elsewhere is Great Britain. I would suggest to you 
elsewhere is Japan. I would suggest to you elsewhere is the United 
States of America and the streets of your hometown.

I have challenged my colleagues on the other side of this debate to 
name for me a single jihadi or Islamist leader, name one, name me just 
one who has said if we withdraw from Iraq, if we pull our troops back, 
they will stop. Name me one who has said that if we leave Iraq they 
will walk away and not carry their fight to the rest of the world.

But I am not alone in saying this issue is bigger. Let me tell you 
what the National Intelligence Estimate, written by our Nation's best 
and brightest intelligence experts in every intelligence agency we 
have, said next. They said, ''Should jihadists leaving Iraq perceive 
themselves, and be perceived, to have failed, we judge fewer fighters 
will be inspired to carry on the fight.'' That is the national 
intelligence community giving us a simple message. If we prevail in 
Iraq, the world will be safer. If we are defeated in Iraq, the world 
will be more dangerous.

Now, I would argue that there ought to be some attention given to the 
words of the troops in the field, and I want to devote the rest of my 
remarks to a column written by First Lieutenant Pete Hegseth last 
October.

Mr. Speaker, I would ask to insert this column by First Lieutenant 
Hegseth in the Record.



 More Troops, Please--''Not Losing'' Isn't the Same as Winning










 (By First Lieutenant Pete Hegseth)




 I've heard President Bush repeatedly state he will send 


 more troops to Iraq if the commanders on the ground ask for 


 them. I think, having returned home from Iraq two months ago, 


 that there must be a breakdown in communication somewhere 


 along the line. Maybe units on the ground are painting too 


 rosy a picture for the generals. Perhaps the generals aren't 


 asking because it goes against the ''can do'' ethos of the 


 Army. Possibly the military is being squeezed by the Pentagon 


 to do more with less. Or maybe the White House doesn't want 


 to admit more troops are needed. In any case, while I do not 


 have the answers nor do I seek to place blame, it is 


 painfully obvious there's a disconnect.



 I volunteered to serve in Iraq because I believe in our 


 mission there. I share the president's conviction about the 


 Iraq war--we can and must win, for the Iraqi people, for the 


 future of our country and for peace-loving people everywhere. 


 But I'm frustrated. America is fighting with a hand tied 


 behind its back. Soldiers have all the equipment we need--


 armored humvees, body armor for every body part, superior 


 technology, etc.--but we simply do not have enough troops in 


 Iraq, and we need them now.



 After witnessing two national elections during three months 


 in Baghdad, my Army unit moved north to Samarra, where we 


 spent eight months sowing the seeds of progress. While we had 


 success in uprooting the insurgency and building the local 


 government, it wasn't enough. We had just enough troops to 


 control Samarra and secure ourselves, but not enough to bring 


 lasting stability or security. ''Not enough'' became the 


 story of my year in Iraq.



 The future of Samarra, and Iraq as a whole, ultimately lies 


 in the hands of her people--their sympathies are the ultimate 


 prize in this war. No matter how many insurgents we kill, 


 city leaders we meet or policemen we enlist, it is all for 


 naught if we cannot provide security and stability. Tribal 


 sheikhs told us that even within Samarra--deep in the Sunni 


 triangle--a vast majority of people just want peace and order 


 and will side with whoever can provide it. Right now 


 Samarrans rightfully question who that will be.



 The end goal is for Iraqis to do everything for themselves. 


 But their government and security forces are not ready. 


 Insurgents use death threats and murder to assert power over 


 anyone working with the City Council or joining the police 


 force. This atmosphere forces moderate Samarrans to keep 


 their mouths shut, and their silence abets the insurgents who 


 live and fight in Samarra. Despite killing scores of 


 insurgents, we are unable to provide lasting security, and so 


 the Samarran street slips away.



 Two things are to blame for our predicament, one a 


 corollary of the other. The first reason is that we did not 


 have enough troops in Samarra. The skill and courage of 150 


 American soldiers prevented chaos, but was never enough to 


 fully secure a city of 120,000 people or maintain the rule of 


 law. The soldiers in the city were preoccupied with defending 


 themselves and conducting night raids, and were therefore 


 largely unable to regularly patrol during the day--thus 


 giving insurgents reign to move freely and intimidate the 


 local population. A visitor in Samarra on an average day 


 would be hard-pressed to point out a single American humvee 


 traversing local neighborhoods. The same is true for Baghdad.



 Our four-vehicle civil-affairs patrol was often the only 


 American presence deep inside the city and we were frequently 


 greeted by locals with the question, ''Where have you been?'' 


 Americans can't of course be omnipresent; but we should at 


 least be there when it matters. When Americans are there, 


 either the insurgents are not or they are on the losing side 


 of a firefight.



 Second, because of a lack of troops, American military 


 leaders are forced to make a choice between mission 


 objectives and self-preservation. Many of our leaders are 


 opting to guard supply routes and coagulate on sprawling 


 military bases, rather than consistently moving into 


 dangerous areas and fighting the insurgency. In our case, we 


 had 500 soldiers stationed outside Samarra who made 


 infrequent trips into the city center. There is little reason 


 why most of these troops were not stationed inside Samarra, 


 canvassing every neighborhood with platoon-sized patrol bases 


 and suffocating insurgent operations. Rather than take the 


 risks necessary--like small patrol bases and frequent foot 


 patrols--our unit opted to secure itself and its supply 


 routes rather than commit resources inside the city. And 


 while this approach is safer in the short run, it only 


 prolongs mission accomplishment, ultimately endangering more 


 troops. We often speculated our unit would be back next year, 


 driving the same streets with even fewer guys.



 I believe that ''the safety of America depends on the 


 outcome of the battle in the streets of Baghdad.'' Why then 


 do we have just enough troops in Iraq not to lose? Americans 


 understand a defeat in Iraq would have horrible consequences 


 for America and its allies for decades to come. America has 


 the capacity to win.



 Why then are we pursuing a bare minimum approach?
