---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SERGEANT FIRST CLASS DAVID A. HARTMAN
## `e047d380464b589ef95cafe3d224eb87`
`Mr. KILDEE — 16 November 2007`

---


Mr. KILDEE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to one of 
America's fallen heroes, Sergeant First Class David A. Hartman. 
Sergeant Hartman will be honored on December 1 by the Bay City United 
States Army Reserves. They will dedicate the Drill Hall at the Bay City 
Michigan Reserve Center in his memory.

David Hartman is remembered by his family and friends as loving, 
fair-minded, honest, fun-loving, family-oriented, and job-oriented. He 
worked hard, and was not afraid to step in and help out. He followed 
his father's example and signed up for the military when he graduated 
from high school. He was a 21-year veteran of the military. David 
served in the first Gulf War and came home with Gulf War Syndrome. He 
was eligible for a medical discharge but he decided to stay in the 
military to continue serving his country. Sergeant Hartman stated that 
he wanted to join the people going to fight and lead by example. On 
July 17, 2004, at the age of 41, David Hartman was asked to make the 
ultimate sacrifice for his country when the vehicle he was driving was 
struck by an improvised explosive device in Bayji Iraq. Sergeant 
Hartman was serving in Iraq with the Army Reserves 401st Transportation 
Company from Battle Creek, MI. He is survived by his wife, Robbin, son, 
Benjamin, and daughter, Heather.



Madam Speaker, when Sergeant Hartman volunteered to put his life on 
the line for his country, it was with the hope that he would never be 
required to make that ultimate sacrifice. But it was God's will that 
his life be cut short on that road in Iraq. We as a Nation need to 
remember SFC David Hartman and all the brave individuals who have died 
for our freedom. I ask the House of Representatives to join me and keep 
their memory in our hearts and prayers.
