---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `e05340cc47f6d42dd5e7df3bf7d05440`
`Mr. HARKIN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, let me state the obvious. The 
administration's position, and what I hear from the other side of the 
aisle, is a blank check for Iraq but not a dime for urgent domestic 
priorities. I can tell you that is a nonstarter with the American 
people. We have more to do here internally for America than just 
borrowing money from China and sending it to Iraq.

I have worked to add to this bill urgently needed funding for an 
array of domestic needs, including health care, extended unemployment 
insurance, and grants to fight crime in neighborhoods across America.

We have added emergency funding for the Byrne Grant Program to 
provide critical funding to local law enforcement, and this funding is 
crucial. Unless we restore the Byrne funding for fiscal year 2008, 
local law enforcement operations will be severely cut back--set back, 
even--if we provide the funds in 2009.

In my State of Iowa, over half of all the drug task forces will be 
forced to shut down unless these cuts are restored. Mr. President, 15 
out of 21 regional drug task forces will be eliminated. That is just my 
State. Think about your State. It is going to devastate our law 
enforcement activities to fight drugs and crime. Law enforcement has 
made it clear that once these programs are stopped, they are very hard 
to start again. It is hard to hire back trained and experienced law 
enforcement, hard to restart a wiretap, for example, to reconnect with 
lost witnesses. So the Byrne Grant Program is absolutely essential. But 
there are other things we need to do.

There is $400 million for NIH in this bill. Much of that is for 
cancer research. We are making great strides, but in the last few 
years, we have not kept up with medical inflation, and therefore the 
amount of dollars we have for cancer research is being eroded.

We have $1 billion in this bill for LIHEAP, the Low-Income Home 
Energy Assistance Program. Mr. President, 15.5 million households are 
at least 30 days overdue in meeting their heating costs. We know how 
high costs are going, and now we have the summer months coming on, and 
in the South particularly, where they are going to need air-
conditioning, we need this money for our low-income and our elderly 
people.

We extend unemployment compensation by 13 weeks. We know the best 
stimulus of all is to help those who are unemployed, to get them the 
money, to get them through a rough patch so they can get back to work.

We also defer the implementation of seven Medicaid and Medicare 
amendments. These are supported by the National Governors Association. 
If we do not defer the implementation of these amendments, it is going 
to have a profoundly bad effect on health care in all of our States, 
and many of these regulations go into effect in June and July of this 
year unless we put a stop to them.

These are all the provisions that are in the domestic package.

Again, we have $100 billion in this bill for Iraq and Afghanistan. 
What about America? What about using this bill to stimulate our 
economy, extend assistance to the unemployed, fight crime, create jobs, 
and invest in medical research? It is not just Iraq and Afghanistan, it 
is also America. That is what this first domestic package is about, and 
I urge all Senators to vote to adopt this amendment to the bill.

I yield the floor.