---
---

# SERGEANT HENRY YBARRA III POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `e05b8fe398fcf77a6a42d0a18fec53a3`
`Mr. SHAYS — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Sergeant Henry Ybarra was, I am told, a regular guy. On a typical 
weekend, he could be found relaxing at home with his family, grilling 
outside with friends or watching his favorite NFL team, the Dallas 
Cowboys. At other times of the year he would tune into auto racing to 
watch his favorite NASCAR driver, Dale Earnhardt, Jr.

Born and raised in Austin, Texas, Sergeant Ybarra was a proud family 
man with everyday American values. At the age of 19, he enlisted in the 
U.S. Army. His military career took him to Virginia, Kansas, Texas, and 
on to Germany. It was in Germany, while assigned to Troop D, 6th 
Squadron, 6th Cavalry that he fought in Operation Enduring Freedom and 
Operation Iraqi Freedom.

His plans for the future were focused on his family and raising his 
three children; but as was pointed out, it all ended abruptly on 
September 11, 2003 in Balad, Iraq, when he was changing a tire on a 
heavy expanded mobility tactical truck when a tire suddenly exploded 
and killed him.

As his father back home in the U.S. was attending a memorial honoring 
those who died on September 11, 2001, he regretfully received word that 
his own son, who had given so much of himself to his country, had been 
killed.

Sergeant Ybarra was known by his friends, comrades and family for 
having a joyful spirit and a constant smile. He liked to kid to make 
others laugh. A proud father, son, husband and soldier maintained a 
positive attitude and never said, I am told, a harmful word towards 
others.



He served his country with distinction. Among his awards and 
decorations were: the Army Commendation Medal, the Army Achievement 
Medal, three Good Conduct Medals, two National Defense Service Medals, 
the Armed Forces Service Medal, the NCO Professional Development 
Ribbon, three Overseas Service Ribbons and the Basic Marks 
qualification badge.

Mr. Speaker, this was a man who was happy to serve his country, and 
we are grateful he did. Let us honor his ultimate sacrifice by renaming 
this post office for him.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.