# None
## `e060eba02f324d2d274d4463e91e4734`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, some folks think that President Bush's term ends on 
January 20, 2009. Many Americans have a big red circle or a happy face 
on their calendar already on that date, or perhaps on their key chains, 
and their watches that tick down ever so slowly, backwards toward that 
happy time.

But while President Bush may be gone from the White House in 314 
days, this administration and its congressional enablers have done so 
much damage that generations of American families will be footing the 
bill for their fiscal recklessness, with compounded interest, long, 
long after President Bush retires to Texas. This administration has 
consistently chosen to sacrifice long-term fiscal stability on the 
altar of political expediency. They have offered the ''free lunch'' 
plan, the ''pain-free'' solution to almost every challenge that our 
country has encountered. And the greatest sacrifice that they have 
demanded at a time of national peril for most Americans is to tell them 
to ''go shopping''.

Well, this administration has now created a record $3 trillion of 
additional national debt on its own during the Bush years. What would 
even just one of those trillions of dollars of debt have accomplished 
had it been expended in a more appropriate manner?

One trillion, that's millions of public school teachers; that's 
health care for hundreds of million children; that's university 
scholarships for millions of students. And in Iraq, this administration 
this week, every week, week after week, month after month, year after 
year, $3 billion. With the cost of the war in Iraq in 2 weeks, we could 
pay for the entire cancer budget of the National Institutes of Health 
for a year. Showering tax breaks on the richest, the most privileged 
few, while hemorrhaging $12 billion every month in Iraq, this 
administration has created more than a Federal deficit; it has created 
deficits, opportunity deficits, for millions of American families.

The administration's failure to address our educational needs means 
that there's an opportunity deficit, that millions of young people are 
not able to achieve their full God-given potential because of the lack 
of support at both the public education level and for student financial 
assistance.

The failure of the Bush administration to address our health care 
problems means a health care deficit for millions of American families, 
the largest single cause of personal bankruptcy in America today, the 
health care crisis.

And the failure of the Bush administration to address our energy 
deficit, that is a deficit that every American feels at the pump when 
they get all their money taken out of their pocket and shifted over to 
some tyrant in an oil-producing area. The cost of the Bush 
administration's budget approach, their fiscal failure, is felt the 
most by those, who are least able to bear it: our students, our 
uninsured, our minimum wage workers, the elderly, and small business 
owners.

This Democratic budget attempts to bail out, to bail us all out. But 
it's mighty hard to keep this country afloat and keep our families 
afloat when the administration is still so busy drilling holes in the 
bottom of the boat.

I urge support for the rule and support for the Democratic budget as 
the best hope we have to do that in this difficult time.