# None
## `e06218f20d120aceec63c2a1f1d4425f`
`Mr. MITCHELL — 10 December 2008`

---


Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I rise today in recognition of a member 
of the Armed Forces from my home state of Arizona. Every month 
Scottsdale Healthcare honors service members that perform diligent 
service to this country. For the month of December, they have 
recognized Lieutenant Junior Grade Daniel Lee Martinez, Jr.

I commend Scottsdale Healthcare for paying tribute to such 
outstanding service members for their bravery and service to our 
country.

Lieutenant Junior Grade Martinez entered the Naval Academy in 2001 
and majored in Quantitative Economics. After graduation, he earned his 
wings as a Naval Flight Officer from Naval Air Stations in Pensacola 
and Jacksonville, Florida. After being permanently stationed in Whidbey 
Island, Washington, Lieutenant Martinez was deployed to Iraq, where he 
served seven months. He then went on to serve three months in South 
America in support of counter narcotic operations. Currently, he is 
expecting another deployment to Iraq in 2009.

Throughout his brave military service, LTJG Martinez has received 
many awards, including a Battle ''E'' Ribbon, the National Defense 
Service Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, the Sea 
Service Deployment Ribbon, Rifle Marksmanship (Expert), and Pistol 
Marksmanship (Expert).

Madam Speaker, please join me in recognizing the inspiring efforts of 
Lieutenant Junior Grade Daniel Lee Martinez, Jr. who is serving our 
country and protecting the lives of his fellow servicemen in combat.
