---
---

# PRIVATE JOHNATHON MILLICAN LULA POST OFFICE
## `e069d0f96d0caf99435852c1e52c18f1`
`Mr. BACHUS — 12 February 2008`

---


Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to express my full support 
for H.R. 3532, naming the Federal post office in Lula, Georgia, in 
honor of PFC Johnathon Millican. It is a fitting tribute to a brave 
solider.

This recognition from the community where Johnathon spent his boyhood 
comes in addition to the inspiring ceremony held last July 28 at Locust 
Fork High School in Alabama, where Johnathon received his diploma. It 
was my great privilege to participate in the ceremony, in which 
Johnathon's wife and father were presented with his posthumous Silver 
Star award.

Johnathon's actions during the raid on Karbala on January 20, 2007 
are the embodiment of the scriptural passage that says there is no 
greater love for a man than to lay down his life for his friends. His 
valor saved the lives of his fellow soldiers, and he died defending 
freedom.

At this time, allow me to introduce the remarks I made during the 
ceremony into the Record.




 The actions of Johnathon Millican embody the same 


 scriptural passage that we've heard at funerals of many of 


 our veterans. It is: Greater love has no man than this, that 


 one lay down his life for his friends.



 Johnathon's life was short, but his legacy will stand.



 His father shared with me a conversation he had with 


 Johnathon just before he graduated here. Many of Johnathon's 


 classmates were planning for college. Others had lined up a 


 job. Still others were talking about how they were going to 


 spend their summers, the things they were going to do.



 Johnathon had already made another decision. He was going 


 to enlist in the Army. The call to duty to serve his country 


 was strong in the aftermath of 9/11.



 Johnathon knew there would be personal sacrifices involved. 


 He knew the fight would not be easy. In fact, his father 


 reminded him that it could be dangerous. Johnathon accepted 


 that. But Johnathon believed in the mission. From Iraq, he 


 posted an observation on the Internet which I wish everyone 


 in this country would observe.



 The quote is, ''You don't have to love the war but you have 


 to love the warrior.''



 One definition of warrior is ''someone notable strength of 


 spirit.''



 Johnathon resoundingly demonstrated those qualities this 


 past January 20th, when insurgents broke into the government 


 compound in Karbala.



 I think it is Johnathon's valor and our concern for all our 


 young men and women in the field that brings us together. The 


 Silver Star Award has given each and every one of us an 


 opportunity to thank Johnathon and his family in a tangible 


 way for his service and his courage. I very much appreciate 


 each and every one of you who have come out this morning to 


 show your love, your compassion, and your gratitude to 


 Johnathon and his family.



 It's a struggle to find the right words at a time like 


 this. I think it's best to go to the soldiers in the field. 


 Let me read from the email sent to me this week from Iraq by 


 Captain Tom Morris, who was Johnathon's commanding officer.



 ''As a commander of troops in combat, losing your soldiers 


 is harder than losing family members. Speaking at Johnathon's 


 memorial service was the hardest thing I ever had to do.



 ''It brings me great pleasure to know that he is being 


 awarded the Silver Star and that there will be a memorial at 


 his high school in his honor. I believe the most important 


 thing to do is to tell his story to those who do not know it, 


 especially those who attend his school.



 ''I will always remember him, especially his deep southern 


 accent and that he was a country boy who was the toughest 


 there was and that nothing really bothered him. I can only 


 hope that I can be as strong, both mentally and physically, 


 as he was.



 ''He will be missed, but never forgotten. He was my 


 soldier, friend, and fellow paratrooper.''



 ''Hero'' is an overused word these days. It's used to 


 describe a TV actor or football player. There is a difference 


 between fame and worthy accomplishment.



 The reason we need to tell Johnathon's story is so people, 


 especially our young men and women and boys and girls, do 


 understand the difference between celebrity and heroism. The 


 students who go past the memorial here at Locust Fork High 


 School will know that a real hero walked their halls.



 To conclude, a passage from Corinthians (16:13) is 


 appropriate for Johnathon and all of the soldiers who protect 


 us. It reads:



 ''Be on your guard, stand firm in the faith, be men of 


 courage, be strong.''



 These words apply perfectly to Johnathon, and why he is 


 deserving of the Silver Star being presented to his family 


 today.
