---
---

# TRIBUTE TO TECHNICAL SERGEANT MICHAEL CMELIK
## `e07d794a7588b9b0ce45d32d70ad0c8e`
`Mr. LATHAM — 25 June 2008`

---


Mr. LATHAM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize a Nashua, Iowa 
native and TSgt Michael P. Cmelik as a recipient of a Bronze Star Medal 
for his heroic achievements during combat operations in support of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. The Bronze Star, the Department of Defense's 
fourth highest award given, is awarded to individuals for bravery, 
heroism, and meritorious service.

Technical Sergeant Cmelik earned the Bronze Star as an elite member 
of the 15th Expeditionary Air Support Operations Squadron while 
operating in Kalsu, Iraq during his third tour of duty in Iraq. As 
stated by the military in a press release related to his award, ''Sgt. 
Cmelik's leadership and professionalism ensured his Brigade Commander's 
intent for airpower was always met, and more often than not, exceeded. 
His actions are in keeping with the finest traditions of military 
service and reflect distinct credit upon himself, this command, the 
United States Army and the United States Air Force.''

Technical Sergeant Cmelik's bravery goes above and beyond what we are 
asked of as citizens of this country, and his heroism and hard work 
illustrates the compassion and professionalism of America's troops. I 
commend TSgt Michael P. Cmelik's courageousness and service to our 
great Nation and consider it an honor to represent Sergeant Cmelik and 
his family in the United States Congress. I know my colleagues join me 
in wishing him the best in his future service to our country.
