# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `e07d0b8bbd21d74b7b52abf9b13bb877`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, sir. I think it's important as we 
look at this, Madam Speaker, and we say small businesses are the 
backbone of our economy. I mean, we are just hearing about the big 
players here; the airlines, those that are publicly trade. What about 
the small business of 25 to 100 people? Do you think they are laying 
off people? They are laying off people because they can't afford it.

I am not a Member of Congress with a conspiracy theory, but I can't 
help but pay attention to this board here. So many Americans appreciate 
the fact when Saddam Hussein's statue was taken down and we are going 
to liberate the Iraqi people and all, but there are some other people 
who had some other interests and some other things in mind. A few 
companies are making record profit, just breaking records as it relates 
to profits.

Meanwhile, back at the ranch or back at the dining room table, folks 
are having to park their vehicles because they can no longer afford to 
be able to pay for the necessity of being able to use their own 
vehicle. I mean the cost of living in the United States has gone up in 
some households some $200 to $300.

What we do here, Mr. Murphy, we are here to represent the American 
people. So we have to make sure that we do exactly just that.

Here's another chart. I had some of my friends come to the floor on 
the other side of the aisle saying, You know what we need to do? Great 
idea. Let's drill more. Let's make sure that we have more opportunities 
for oil companies to find the kind of energy that we need. That is that 
old school kind of Beta thinking, VHS thinking. Just the other day I 
was with my wife, looking around. We had to find something to turn it 
to DVD or whatever the case may be.

If you want to think in the old sense of things, you can. But here 
are the facts. Acres leased, and this is in the millions, 9.5 million 
acres that have been leased. When you look at the acres that are 
producing, 23.7. So what we have here is a full plate that the oil 
industry has to look for oil or whatever the case may be. They are not 
even taking advantage of the leases that have already been given. But, 
better yet, they want more.

Now, what the Speaker is talking about and the Democrats are talking 
about, let's go in, let's bring this price down. Let's let the oil 
cartels know that we mean business. And we also responded as it relates 
to legislation looking at alternative fuel.

The last point that I want to make and then I'm going to turn it over 
to my good friend here. Let's talk about what is happening out there.

If you're lucky enough to have a 2008 Pontiac Grand Prix, the cost to 
fill that up is $62.73. That is every time it ends up on E. The annual 
cost is $2,927. If you're lucky enough to have a Honda Accord, the cost 
to fill that up is $58.26. Annual cost, $2,565. Not even talking about 
what you have to do as relates to preventive maintenance.

If you have an opportunity to have a 2008--all these numbers I am 
talking about here, like I said, Madam Speaker, we don't talk fiction, 
we don't embellish numbers, we don't leave any like gray area out there 
for folks to say, Well, maybe he might have meant that, or maybe the 
30-Something, maybe they were making another point. We want to make 
sure that you're able to go on fueleconomy.gov and you can get these 
numbers that I am stating right here on the floor right now, right 
here.

If you're lucky enough to have a 2008 Chevy Impala, $62.73; $2,798. 
Chevy Suburban. Many small businesses use these vehicles. A 2008, $124, 
and $4,391 to fill it up per year. We are not even talking about 
preventive maintenance.

Ford Escape, $60.88; $2,927. You also have your Ford Escape Hybrid, 
which is $55.35; $2,096 that is being spent, plus you get your $3,000 
tax credit when you get this hybrid.

Let's just talk about what is happening in rural America, in many 
places in rural America, and small businesses. Ford F-10 pickup truck, 
$113.83. That is to fill it up; $4,391. It goes on and on with this Web 
site. This is based on the national average, which is $4.10.

This is what is happening right now. They don't want to hear what the 
Republican side is talking about, Madam Speaker, as it relates to if we 
were to give more leases and we were to start drilling off the coast of 
Florida that we have never considered--well, we never really considered 
before. We wanted to do it, but we couldn't do it. But now folks are in 
a crisis now. Here's our solution.

Well, that is not a good solution because you have all of these 
leases that are out there. It's almost like the oil companies, back in 
2001 when they had this great meeting in Dick Cheney's office and 
started talking about how we are going to deal with energy policy, came 
up with this situation.

We have seen oil and the price of gas go from $1-something to now 
$4.10. It seems to work. The Bush administration is there. I think it's 
kind of like the last call for you know what to say that, Hey, let's 
get these leases while we can because we have Democrats here in the 
Congress that is talking about alternative fuel, that is talking about 
bringing the gas prices down now, not later, and have a real strategy 
as it relates to dealing with these oil cartels with penalties and 
allowing our regulation agencies here to regulate these folks from 
price gouging the American people.

Who's standing in the middle of the door? When they say stand in the 
schoolhouse door, who's standing there? The administration is standing 
there, saying that it's not just and it's not fair.

I have got a problem with that. I don't think my constituents sent me 
here to Congress to sit idly by and watch this happen. I am so glad, my 
colleagues here, that we have acted on this. I am not so happy that the 
President has not acted on it. I am not so happy that there's not 
outrage as it relates to his inaction for not dealing with these 
issues.

So Members can come to the floor and start talking about fiction and 
carrying on and embellishing. I'm not saying that. I am just saying 
some folks can come and start painting big pictures with broad brush or 
whatever the case may be. But I think it's important that we bring 
these issues to the forefront.

I don't have a problem with the oil companies that are on this chart 
here. I am not upset with them. They are just taking advantage of the 
situation that they have. Use it or lose it. They are taking advantage 
of it. We are going to ride this thing as long as we can ride it. I 
tell you, the American people have a say, and come this November, 
there's going to be a different day.

Last point. I am just going to make a last point and have a seat. I 
am going to let my colleagues share a little bit with us.

I remember in the day when Mr. Ryan and I, some two Congresses ago, 
used to say, If we have the opportunity to lead, that we will lead in a 
way that the American people would like for us to lead, not as 
Democrats would like for us to lead, not as independents, or not as 
Republicans, but as the American people would like for us to lead; how 
future generations would like for us to lead as relates to dealing with 
global warming, as it relates to investing in the Midwest versus the 
Middle East so that we can create green jobs. To put the American 
people to work, not other folks to work. And we have responded to that 
call.

In politics, you don't see that. You don't see people. The Speaker 
said what we are going to do. We are doing it. The President is not 
doing it. The Vice President is not doing it. I can tell you right now, 
we need this paradigm shift to happen now.

We said that there will be Members of this House that will be 
watching us here on this floor at home, not because they are retired, 
not because they thought someone else needed a chance to lead, but 
because the American people no longer tolerate it. That actually 
happened.

So I think come this November, the American people are going to rise 
up and they are going to say, Listen, I did not send you to Washington, 
D.C. to represent the special interests and to represent big oil to 
make record profits. I sent to you Washington, D.C. to make life better 
for me and my children.



So I want to thank my colleagues here for allowing me to make that 
point. I know that we have some other things to share as relates to 
this subject, so I will yield to my good friend from Connecticut.