# None
## `e088808885532e216e0c05a1f7dc355b`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. If the gentleman will yield, there is no better way 
to support the troops than this supplemental bill that just passed out 
of our committee, and it will be on this floor next week. If you want 
to talk about sling-shotting the troops in, what we have done, and the 
Democratic leadership, and Mr. Murtha, Mr. Obey has been absolutely 
phenomenal as to what we have been able to do; $1.7 billion more than 
the President's request for defense health care. I don't know how you 
could vote against us; $450 million for post-traumatic stress disorder; 
$450 million for traumatic brain injury care and research; $730 million 
to prevent health care fee increase for our troops; $20 million to 
address problems at Walter Reed, and almost $15 million for


burn care; another $1.7 billion in addition to the President's request 
for veterans health care, $550 million to address the backlog in 
maintaining VA health care facilities, which has been a huge problem; 
$250 million for medical administration to ensure sufficient personnel 
to support the growing number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who are 
coming back so that they can have the level of service that they need.

Now it's one thing to say you support the troops and then you turn 
around and you vote against a bill that has $4- or $5 billion in it to 
support the veterans and the troops coming back. It seems quite 
apparent to me that this is something that we need to do.

Believe me, nobody wants to get out of war faster than me. I want to 
be out this afternoon, tomorrow morning. Let's come back. This has been 
foolish to begin with, but there is a certain reality on logistical 
needs and diversity in the country of how we should do this.

So what we have done today was create a real framework for our kids 
to come back home, to let the Iraqis stand up, and put these 
benchmarks. I just want to talk for a minute about what these 
benchmarks are. Some people say, well, you are tying the President's 
hands, you are trying to micromanage more. We are not. That is not 
true.

The facts of the matter are these, the President and the Pentagon 
have benchmarks. So how many Iraqi troops need to be trained, what does 
the political situation need to look like? Have they achieved their 
political and military benchmarks that have been set by the President? 
All we are saying is that you have to show some progress towards those 
benchmarks by July.

Now, granted, we have already been in this war longer than we were in 
World War II. So by July you better show some progress as to meeting 
the benchmarks. If you are not showing progress, we will begin to 
redeploy out.

But if by July you are showing some progress, you will then have 
until October to actually meet the benchmarks. If you don't meet them 
by October, we redeploy. If you do meet them by October, we redeploy, 
because you have met the benchmarks.

This is just bringing this war to a reasonable end. What we have done 
today, I think the end is in sight.