---
---

# FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007
## `e08a0860269c89831d6a5d20c2859a16`
`Mr. REID — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. REID. I would be happy to respond to that. Mr. President, I think 
there is tremendous incentive. First of all, they could have their 
amendment heard--their relevant amendment. And there is nothing to stop 
us from having the managers of the bill sit down and work out a 
procedure where they can come up with 10 relevant amendments--
amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10--to this bill. Do one, do the 
other, and we can try to work out time agreements on these matters.

So there is tremendous incentive, because I am convinced there are 
people on both sides of the aisle who have problems with this bill. 
Some do not like the bill and they want to change it; others want to 
improve the bill. They want to do that in good faith. So the incentive 
would be, as I have said to my dear friend, the Senator from Kentucky, 
to have their amendment and others heard.

There is nothing to prevent the manager of the bill from coming up 
with a series--I would even go as far as to say my distinguished 
friend, the Republican leader, if he wants to have the final say with 
me, if the managers do a good job, I would be happy to include him in 
the mix. But there is a lot of incentive. We could, in the next couple 
of days, work out a procedure to get rid of a lot of amendments that 
are relevant to this bill and would either improve the bill in the mind 
of some people or make it a little worse, which is the goal some people 
have.

There is tremendous incentive here, because we could agree to--we 
might arrive at a point where people say we have had a pretty good 
opportunity to change this bill; we do not need to do an Iraq 
amendment; we do not need to do an amendment dealing with firefighters 
that has no bearing on this bill. In fact, what we need to do is work 
on making this bill one where people have the opportunity to offer 
amendments on the farm bill that are relevant.