# RECESSION
## `e091dbaa94a2c7971a10223a848dd0fd`
`Mr. CASEY — 25 January 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I commend our colleague from North Dakota 
for highlighting some of the challenges we face economically. He did it 
in a very compelling way, as he always does. We are grateful for his 
leadership on these issues.

I stood before the Senate a couple of days ago and talked about the 
fact that we have a war in Iraq that we cannot forget about. In fact, 
if you listen to some of the news, you would think there are only one 
or two issues we have to worry about, but the war continues to be a 
central issue for the American people. We also have to be very 
concerned, as Senator Dorgan and others have reminded us, about the 
economy.

I was asked recently by a reporter--a couple of different reporters, 
actually--who said to me very simply--or asked me, I should say, very 
simply the question: Are we in recession? I answered them without 
blinking, without even stopping to think, because I know it is the 
truth, and the answer is yes, we are in a recession. I don't care 
about, nor do I need to wait, for some academic dissertation or some 
economist to tell us what is the textbook definition of a recession. We 
are in a recession. We have to do something about it. I think it is as 
plain as could be.

So what do we do about this recession? How do we respond to it? Thank 
goodness, there is a lot of bipartisanship on this issue, both parties 
coming together to try to do something about it. But I think we have to 
describe for people in Washington what this means for real people. I 
will talk about it in the context of Pennsylvania and Pennsylvania 
families, by way of highlighting this issue. I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record two pages I am going to be referring to from 
the Joint Economic Committee, Pennsylvania Economic Snapshot, dated 
January 23, 2008.