---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `e0a40d59812831e26574bfea0b6c69e2`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, my purpose today is to say I believe it 
is time for President Bush to take the Iraq Study Group report down off 
the shelf and use it for something other than a bookend. But first let 
me say something about the resolution that we are about to consider.

There is a reason why we don't have 535 commanders in chief or 100 
commanding generals each saying: Charge down this street or over that 
hill. The Founders of our country made the President the Commander in 
Chief and gave to Congress the power to declare war and pay for it. 
That is why I will vote against this resolution and any of the 
resolutions that seek to micromanage the war. Once a war is authorized, 
as this one was by a bipartisan vote of 77 to 23 in 2002, it is the 
President's job to manage the war.

As an example of why we don't need 535 Members of Congress 
micromanaging the war, consider this: Since last January, the new 
Democratic majority has offered 17 different bills and resolutions 
outlining what we ought to do in Iraq, and there will be more coming in 
the next few weeks, I am sure.

I am not about to cut off funds for General Petraeus's troops in the 
middle of the current military exercise, which clearly Congress has the 
power to do but should not do.

I have--and each of us has--the responsibility as a Senator to say 
what I believe is the right way forward for our country in Iraq, and my 
belief is this: The President would be wise to take down off the shelf 
the recommendations of the bipartisan Baker-Hamilton Iraq Study Group 
to develop a strategy based on those recommendations and to ask 
Americans to accept that strategy as the right way forward in Iraq.

I believe the President would have been wise to do that in January 
during his State of the Union Address. The country was then looking for 
a new way forward in Iraq. The Iraq Study Group, after 9 months of 
careful bipartisan work, offered such a plan. Instead, the day after 
the report was announced in December, some who wanted another 100,000 
or 200,000 troops to win the war said the report was a recipe for 
defeat. On the other side, those who wanted the United States out of 
Iraq immediately dismissed the report as more of the same. So the 
report was put on the shelf. That is, until lately.

Lately, the President's National Security Adviser has cited the 
Baker-Hamilton report as authority for the surge of troops in Baghdad, 
which, in fact, on page 73, the report did say might be necessary. Over 
the weekend, the United States participated in meetings with Syria and 
Iran, perhaps the most controversial recommendation in the report. The 
timetable and strategy for reducing our combat strength in Iraq 
contained in the new Democratic Senate resolution sounds very much like 
the Iraq Study Group, calling for combat troops to be largely withdrawn 
from Iraq by next March. But the Iraq


Study Group specifically opposed setting timetables or deadlines for 
withdrawal, noting that its recommendation should be ''subject to 
unexpected developments on the ground.''

At the same time, like one of the Republican-sponsored resolutions, 
the Iraq Study Group recommended the United States work closely with 
Iraq's leaders to support the achievement of certain ''milestones.'' In 
short, if there is any bipartisan consensus emerging about how the 
United States should go forward in Iraq, the best blueprint of that 
consensus can be found in the report of the Iraq Study Group.

The membership and process of the Iraq Study Group is as important as 
the substance of what it said. It included some of America's most 
distinguished citizens from the Reagan and Carter and the first Bush 
administrations, from the Congress, and the Supreme Court. One of its 
former members is today's Secretary of Defense. It was ideologically 
and politically diverse. The group spent 9 months, met 9 times, 
including a trip to Baghdad, interviewed 171 individuals, and made 79 
specific recommendations.

Its assessment of the ''dire'' current conditions in Iraq was honest 
and sober. It didn't shy away from bad news--that 79 percent of Iraqis 
have a mostly negative view of United States influence in their 
country; that 2,900 Americans at that time had been killed, with 
another 21,000 wounded; that we had spent roughly $400 billion, and 
that estimates run as high as $2 trillion on this war. The group 
acknowledged its recommendations weren't perfect, but were the best 
options.

As much as America needs a new strategy in Iraq, we also need a 
consensus in support of that strategy. To put it bluntly, a majority of 
the American people do not now have confidence in the President's 
course in Iraq. The Iraq Study Group offered the President an 
opportunity to say, okay, here is a different approach suggested by a 
bipartisan group of distinguished Americans. It is not my strategy, it 
is theirs. The President could say, I accept it, and for the good of 
our country and the Armed Forces fighting for it, I ask you to accept 
it.

Such a statement would not exhibit Presidential weakness. That would 
be Presidential leadership, recognizing that the President's job is not 
only to choose the right strategy but to successfully persuade at least 
half the people he is right. The President still has this option before 
him. I respectfully suggest he would be wise to exercise it today, this 
week. Come back to Congress, report on the progress of the last few 
weeks in Iraq, invite the Iraq Study Group members to sit in the 
gallery, compliment their work, accept their recommendations, and ask 
the Congress and the country to also accept their recommendations.

Now, this course won't satisfy those who want another 100,000 or 
200,000 more troops to win the war in Iraq. Neither will it satisfy 
those who want all troops out on a specific timetable. But it will get 
United States troops quickly out of the combat business in Iraq and 
into the support business. It will reduce the number of American forces 
in Iraq over the next year. It will leave American special forces in 
Iraq to go after al-Qaida and the troops to help guard the borders, 
because there would still be a limited United States military presence. 
It will send a signal to the rest of the Middle East to stay out of 
Iraq. It will give support to General Petraeus and his troops, who are 
in the midst of a surge to make Baghdad safer. It will expand 
diplomatic efforts to build support for Iraqi national reconciliation 
and sovereignty, including with Iraq's neighbors. And it will 
recognize, or at least begin to recognize, that America has done most 
of what it can do to help Iraq. As Prime Minister Tony Blair has said, 
it is time for the next chapters in Iraq's history to largely be 
written by the Iraqis themselves.

Finally, this course will recognize that while the United States can 
and should be a shining example of democracy, and while the United 
States does have the mightiest military force in the world, a 
conservative view of human nature and our own national interest places 
limits on what we can do to make it possible for others to adopt our 
democracy and to adopt our way of life.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.