---
---

# ARMY SPC DANIEL AGAMI POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `e0a5e6f0a51cb59267d04122134f6fdc`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman.

I rise in support of H.R. 6338, a bill to honor the life and legacy 
of Specialist Daniel J. Agami, who was killed in action on June 21, 
2007, while serving his country in Iraq.

Daniel Agami was a devoted friend, a loving son and brother and 
courageous soldier. Growing up in South Florida, Daniel's parents 
raised him with strong Jewish values, and he was very proud of his 
Jewish heritage. To his friends, and he got quite a kick out of it, he 
was known as ''GI Jew.'' A little different.

Daniel knew he was meant to serve a greater purpose in life, and in 
2005 his love for country and an unyielding drive to serve others led 
him to enlist in the United States Army. For his heroism in combat, 
Daniel was posthumously presented with multiple medals of honor, 
including the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, the Good Conduct Medal, 
the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, the Iraqi Campaign Medal, 
and the Combat Infantryman's Badge.

During his service in the U.S. Army, Daniel worked with local 
schools, devastated from war and destruction, to refurbish their 
structures and mentor their students.

The communities he served in Iraq and here at home have suffered a 
tremendous loss. Daniel made the ultimate sacrifice for his country, 
and it is with great pride that I rise in support of this legislation 
to recognize his strong moral character and his work to make this world 
a better place.

It is my sincere hope that when the South Florida community utilizes 
the services of the post office in Coconut Creek, Florida, they will 
remember and honor Army Specialist Daniel Agami and his exceptional 
patriotism and courage.

I would like to also thank the members of the Florida congressional 
delegation for their strong support of this legislation. I would also 
like to recognize the Agami family: Parents, Beth and Itzhak; brother, 
Ilan and his wife, Elisha; sister, Shaina; and grandmother, Sandy 
Becker. The Agami family will be in Washington D.C. later this week 
where they will celebrate and honor Daniel's life and memory.

I urge passage of this piece of legislation.