# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2638, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND  SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `e0c8bacb60da91a6eeff5b95826b1648`
`Ms. FOXX — 12 June 2007`

---


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my distinguished colleague 
yielding me this time.

Sitting here listening, I am puzzled by some of the things being 
said. First of all, we are having folks thank the majority party for 
having them give us an open rule. I find it very unusual that we would 
have to thank somebody for doing what is right. You ought to thank 
somebody when they do something that is above and beyond what is the 
right thing to do.

I also find it very difficult to understand how the appropriations 
chairman can say that they have had to deal with the Iraq problem for 3 
months; and therefore, they have not had time to do their work.

Who is in charge here? You all are in charge. You should have been 
able to do your work. You let yourself get bogged down for 3 months on 
something that was totally useless, and here you are blaming the 
minority party. I find it unbelievable that you don't accept the fact 
that you are in charge of things. What is the ''existing Republican 
process''? You all are in charge. You can't blame us.

I want to quote from the Rules Committee chairman on 1-4-07, ''Our 
rules package requires full disclosure of earmarks in all bills and 
conference reports before Members are asked to vote on them,'' not 30 
days afterwards, but before.

Where are those earmarks, Madam Chairman? I don't see them in here.

The American people were promised transparency, truthfulness, 
openness in this process. They were sold a bill of goods. They don't 
want more secrecy, they want less secrecy. The Democrats said, We will 
have a new day. This is much worse than anything we have ever seen 
before. We need to restore the earmark rule like the Republicans had it 
last year.