---
---

# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `e0c8b59c262ce2716f27f545806ad1c8`
`Mr. WARNER — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, Senator Levin, along with Senator McCain, 
have forged a comprehensive, bipartisan legislative package to ensure 
that wounded and injured members of the Armed Forces receive the finest 
care and benefits, which they richly deserve.

I thank Senators on both sides who participated in this legislation, 
on the basis of their own legislative initiatives and their 
amendments--10 of which were agreed to when the bill was considered by 
the full Senate on July 12, 2007.

I want to underscore that this bill is--in no way--a reflection of 
concern about the quality of acute medical care that our soldiers, 
sailors, airmen, and marines receive when they sustain wounds or 
illness in the field of battle.

Our men and women in uniform receive the best treatment anywhere in 
the world, and that fact has been sustained by every outside panel 
studying the problems arising from the disclosures at Walter Reed last 
February.

In fact, just today, the President's Commission on Care for America's 
Wounded Warriors, the Dole-Shalala Commission, found that the survival 
rate of those seriously injured has markedly increased compared to the 
rate in Vietnam and previous wars.

The report of a commission appointed by Secretary Gates, and led by 
two distinguished former Secretaries of the Army, Togo West and John 
Marsh confirms this by stating: Through advances in battlefield 
medicine, evacuation care, the Department has achieved the lowest 
mortality rates of wounded in history.

Let us never doubt the bravery and skill of our medical personnel.

This bill, approved by the Senate this morning, addresses the failure 
of systems--again, quoting from the Department of Defense Commission 
report--failures which included the: product of bureaucratic behavior, 
inability to reconcile institutional disparities, and leaving the 
wounded warrior and family to untangle that which government agencies 
cannot.

It is with great humility that I recall that I was the first Member 
of the Senate to visit Walter Reed--on February 23, 2007. It happened 
to be the same day that Secretary Gates visited Walter Reed to conduct 
his own inspection.


In the intervening months, many encouraging developments have taken 
place. I applaud the leadership of Secretary Gates in promptly taking 
action to correct deficiencies at Walter Reed, and insisting on 
accountability for failures in leadership that contributed to 
unacceptable conditions for our soldiers.

Our committee has also have received assurances from the Secretary of 
the Army Pete Geren, Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England and the 
Deputy Secretary of Veterans' Affairs Gordon Mansfield, that each will 
work tirelessly to improve the consistency and effectiveness of their 
management of all soldiers and veterans.

The bill which has now been passed by unanimous consent is 
comprehensive and deserving of our support. It incorporates many of the 
findings of completed studies and reviews, as well as the constructive 
ideas of Members of the Senate.

This legislation will ensure that wounded and injured members of the 
Armed Forces receive the care and benefits that they deserve.

It will improve physical and mental health benefits for the severely 
wounded, to ensure that they have the broadest possible options for 
care from military, veterans and private sector health care resources.

It includes significant initiatives in the areas of traumatic brain 
injury, TBI, and post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, for soldiers and 
veterans. This addresses the Dole-Shalala findings that over 52,000 
Iraq and Afghanistan returning veterans have been treated for PTSD 
symptoms by the VA.

This legislation also creates a special review board to reexamine 
disability determinations which fall below the 20 percent threshold if 
a former member


of the armed services feels that he or she received an unfair rating.

Additionally, the bill requires the Departments of Defense and 
Veterans Affairs to rapidly move to fundamentally change and improve 
the disability evaluation systems within the two departments.

I am pleased that the legislation will ensure that as policies and 
programs are developed to improve care and management of wounded 
soldiers and veterans, that such policies and improvements will apply 
equally to members of the Active and Reserve components.


The bill also requires that military personnel continue to receive 
the best possible care at Walter Reed Army Medical Center until 
equivalent medical facilities are constructed at the National Naval 
Medical Center, Bethesda, MD, and the Fort Belvoir, VA, Army Community 
Hospital--and requires the Department of Defense to study the 
feasibility of accelerating the relocation of medical capabilities in 
the National Capital Region required by the Base Realignment and 
Closure Act of 2005.

The Senate can be proud that it has put the needs of our wounded 
warriors first and set forth bipartisan jurisdictional boundaries.

I want to thank my colleagues--especially Senator Akaka, chairman of 
the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs, and Senator Craig, the 
ranking member, for their cooperation, and for the work of both our 
committee staffs--working together--in the preparation of this 
legislation.

It is my hope that we will proceed expeditiously to conference with 
the other body on wounded warrior legislation and promptly resume 
consideration of the National Defense Authorization Act for 2008 when 
Congress reconvenes in September.

We owe this to our men and women in uniform and their families 
stationed throughout the world. They deserve nothing less than our full 
support.
