# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `e0dc6a004809d898a41681b843e7ae36`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I have sent a second-degree amendment to 
the desk to the Landrieu amendment. My second degree will not strike 
her amendment. As a matter of fact, it will add at the end of her 
amendment the provisions of an amendment I had offered on Defense 
authorization. I am to chair the Democratic Policy Committee luncheon 
in a few minutes so I am not able to speak at length about this 
amendment. I intend to do that at some later point.

I wish to mention what Senator Landrieu has described in her first-
degree amendment, the interest in having as our major policy goal here 
with respect to the fight against terrorism, the destruction of and 
elimination of the leadership of al-Qaida, Osama bin Laden. My 
amendment is one I had offered, as I said, to the Defense authorization 
bill, previously. It is an amendment that requires a quarterly 
classified report to be offered to the Congress that would tell us what 
is being done to bring to justice the leadership of al-Qaida.

The reason for offering that is quite simple. A week ago, we had a 
new National Intelligence Estimate, an NIE, given to the Congress in 
classified and unclassified form; an NIE that was reported to the 
American people. The reports were not particularly surprising but in 
some ways stunning. The report says the greatest terrorist threat to 
our homeland, in this country--the greatest terrorist threat to our 
homeland is al-Qaida and its leadership. It also says al-Qaida and its 
leadership is in a secure hideaway or safe harbor.

I ask the question for which there is no answer: Why, nearly 6 years 
after 
9/11/2001, in which Osama bin Laden boasted about engineering the 
murder of thousands of innocent Americans--why, after 6 years, is there 
a safe harbor or secure hideaway anywhere on this planet for the 
leadership of al-Qaida and for Osama bin Laden? That, in my judgment, 
is a failure.

We have a lot of briefings in this Congress; some of them classified, 
top secret briefings. There are no briefings


that I am aware of on what is being done or what has not been done to 
bring to justice, to apprehend, and eliminate the leadership of al-
Qaida. Those briefings do not exist. One of the reasons that perhaps we 
have not seen progress in bringing to justice and eliminating the 
leadership of al-Qaida is the President himself said: I don't think 
much about that. I don't think much, don't care much about Osama bin 
Laden.

If you believe the intelligence estimates, they are today planning 
additional attacks against this country. Yesterday, we woke up to the 
news that there are apparently dry runs, they think--our intelligence 
people think there are dry runs being made in our airports with various 
things packed in luggage by terrorists who want to do potential attacks 
later. We hear all these reports and the question remains: Why is it 
the leadership of the organization that poses the greatest terrorist 
threat to this country has a secure hideaway somewhere or a safe haven 
somewhere? There ought not be a square inch of ground on this planet 
that is safe for those who murdered Americans on 9/11, for those who 
pose the greatest threat to this country. That is intolerable.

The Defense authorization bill will come back to the floor of the 
Senate, I guess. This amendment I have offered is in that piece of 
legislation. But to make certain this amendment becomes law and gets to 
the desk of the President for signature, I have offered it to this 
appropriations bill. I understand it fits better on Defense 
authorization. My hope is that is where it will wind up on the 
President's desk.

It seems to me we went through agonizing debates and passionate 
debates on the floor of the Senate about the war in Iraq. I respect 
everybody's opinion on those issues. But while we have soldiers who got 
up this morning and strapped on body armor and got in humvees and then 
went and knocked door to door in Baghdad in the middle of a civil war, 
where Shias are killing Sunnis and Sunnis are killing Shias and Shias 
and Sunnis are both killing Americans--while that happened this morning 
in the middle of a civil war, we have the greatest terrorist threat to 
this country apparently in a safe harbor or secure hideaway. That ought 
not exist. First things first. Let's fight the terrorists first and 
defeat the terrorists first. That ought to be the first and most 
important priority and responsibility. If they are the greatest threat 
to this country, let's eliminate that threat. That ought to be the goal 
of this country. That is why I offer this amendment.