---
---

# DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007
## `e0e2d575172523d1a6954186c2114236`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
bill, the D.C. Voting Rights Act.

For too long, the residents of our Nation's Capital have been without 
out a full voice in Congress.

The District of Columbia is home to over 570,000 residents. It has a 
larger population than Wyoming, which is represented by an at-large 
member in the House and two Senators.

The men and women of the District of Columbia pay their taxes, both 
to the Federal Government and the District. They salute the American 
flag at Nationals, Wizards, Caps and Redskins games. And they serve or 
have served in the Armed Forces. D.C. is home to over 44,000 veterans. 
In Iraq and Afghanistan, four brave men have made the ultimate 
sacrifice for their country.

Yet despite being an integral part of the fabric of our Nation, D.C. 
continues to be denied a vote in Congress.

Today we are considering compromise, bipartisan legislation 
coauthored by my friends and colleagues Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton 
and Representative Tom Davis. From his position on the Government 
Oversight Committee Congressman Davis has spent considerable time and 
attention on issues affecting the District. And there is no stronger 
advocate for her constituents than the gentlewoman from D.C.

I compliment the bill's sponsors for crafting a thoughtful approach 
and a clever compromise that grants Utah an at-large representative to 
balance any potential partisan division. It keeps this proposal 
bipartisan and improves its prospects for favorable Senate action. I 
hope the White House will rethink its current concerns and join our 
bipartisan coalition to affirm the District's right to a vote.

Some who oppose this legislation have stated that it raises 
constitutional concerns. But, as was stated in a recent op-ed by the 
Republican D.C. Councilwoman Carol Schwartz, no less conservative 
scholars than former solicitor general Kenneth Starr, former chief 
judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit Patricia Wald 
and Georgetown Law Professor and author of the USA Patriot Act Viet 
Dihn have stated that giving the District a vote is in fact, 
constitutional.

Mr. Speaker, the citizens of Washington, DC are as much red-blooded 
Americans as anybody living in the 50 States.

They deserve to have their voices heard in the halls of Congress, 
they deserve a representative who can vote on their behalf as this body 
debates matters directly affecting their country and therefore, they 
deserve to have this legislation passed today.