# CELEBRATE SAFE COMMUNITIES
## `e0e3402029fd2eaedfcce6779a674e72`
`Mr. DODD — 30 September 2008`

---


Mr. DODD. That is right. We hope it works. At the time that happened, 
I kept thinking of the person who once described a camel as being a 
horse that was designed by Congress in the sense of building two parts 
of this boat and welding them together. It was a perfect congressional 
result of a matter. Nonetheless, I cherish those comments.

I wish you the very best. Thank you for your service to our country.

















Chuck Hagel


I wanted to mention as well a couple of other colleagues who are also 
retiring. If I could, one is my great friend from Nebraska, Chuck 
Hagel, with whom I have served on both the Banking and the Foreign 
Relations Committees for the past 12 years, truly a wonderful person. 
We have worked together on a number of issues.

He got his first job at 9 years of age when he began to help his 
family economically. He was 16 when his dad died and took over raising 
his family along with his mother. I believe most of my colleagues are 
aware that he was a true hero of the Vietnam war. He saved his brother 
who, in fact, was serving with him in that conflict.

He has done a remarkable job in his public service years as well. We 
serve on the Foreign Relations Committee together and the Banking 
Committee. Whether the issue has been Iraq, Serbia, or Croatia, Cuba, 
regardless of who comes before our committee, no one asks tougher 
questions or gets straighter answers than Chuck Hagel.

On Cuba, for instance--again, an explosive issue politically--Chuck 
and I offered a resolution to end the embargo in Cuba because we agreed 
that the current policy toward the island has failed the Cuban people 
and the American people alike and because we refused to let America 
wait on the sidelines while the future of one of our closest neighbors 
is determined by others.

It is that kind of courage that he brings to the debate, kind of 
blows through it all and says: What is the right thing for our country 
and, in this case, the people of Cuba?

On the Banking Committee, Chuck and I worked for months to reinvent 
the infrastructure of our Nation with the creation of a national 
infrastructure bank, 2/1/2/ years developing that bill. In fact, it was 
Chuck who convinced me we ought to announce the outcome of our work one 
day in August last year. I argued with him a bit. I said: No one will 
pay any attention to announcing an infrastructure bill in August. Who 
wants to hear about infrastructure in August.



Chuck said: No, let's have that press conference and let people know 
what we are doing.

We met in the gallery at 10 a.m. I think we had two reporters who 
showed up. I said: I think I was right, Chuck. No one cares about 
infrastructure.

By 5 o'clock that afternoon, Chuck Hagel and I were on every TV 
screen in America because, regrettably, of the great tragedy in 
Minneapolis that occurred that afternoon. The bridge collapsed. Of 
course, infrastructure was the subject matter for the next weeks to 
come. So, once again, Chuck Hagel understood the timing of an issue in 
bringing it up and how important it was for our Nation. Little did we 
know that tragedy would fall on interstate 35-W over the Mississippi 
River.

There again was Chuck Hagel, standing with a colleague of a different 
background, putting aside ideology and politics to work together to 
find new and innovative ways to address the Nation's most urgent 
priorities. That is Chuck Hagel, a remarkable person and a very good 
Senator over the years. Patriotic, never partisan, tough but fair, 
always engaged, sometimes even confrontational, but never, ever 
belligerent, a strong Member. This institution will miss Chuck's 
ability to transcend politics and serve the American people. As such, 
the people of Nebraska deserve our thanks for sending Chuck Hagel to 
serve with us over these past 12 years. I will miss him. We all wish 
him the very best. He served our Nation very well during his service.
















 Pete Domenici


The last Member I want to talk about is Pete Domenici with whom I 
have had the privilege of working on so many issues over the years. In 
fact, only a few weeks ago I was honored to be asked to come and speak 
on behalf of Pete Domenici in Las Cruces at New Mexico State University 
where the Center for Public Policy is named for Pete Domenici. It was 
quite a gathering at which I was the keynote speaker, where Pete was 
being recognized for his contribution to the State and our country.

Jim Baker, former Secretary of State, spoke at the conference as well 
over that weekend. It was quite a gathering of people from that State 
to express their appreciation for Pete's 36 years of serving the people 
of his home State. Again, a legislative record that is clear and almost 
without peer in many ways.

Because of Pete Domenici our country will soon recognize that mental 
illness is as serious as any physical illness. He, Ted Kennedy and Paul 
Wellstone were so pivotal in making us all aware of how important this 
issue is. Without Pete's leadership, I don't think this would have 
happened. Without Pete going to his colleagues and saying: Let me tell 
you about my family--he had the courage to talk about his own family 
and what they have been through--it has made a difference. Today 
millions of people will benefit as a result of Pete's leadership on an 
issue that is going to make a difference in their lives. Because of 
Pete's leadership, candidates for President in both parties now 
acknowledge that we have to be serious about doing something about 
global warming; again, serious about reducing our emissions, ending our 
dependence on oil.

Again, John Warner and Pete Domenici are classic examples of people 
who step out of what you might normally associate them with on an issue 
and get involved and make a difference, almost overnight, because they 
said this is worthy of our attention and certainly serious, so serious 
that it demands action.

Thanks to Pete's relentless vigilance, I am confident that safe and 
secure nuclear energy, which I happen to be a supporter of as well, 
will play a large role in helping us address one of our largest 
problems in the years ahead. Because of Pete, last year over 5 million 
children in 51 counties studied what character means in the classroom. 
Pete and I are the authors of that idea. It started out as a small idea 
in his State and my State, to insist that part of the day, on the 
athletic fields, in classes--not just for some 15 minutes--students 
embrace one of the six pillars of great character and make it a part of 
the seamless garment of a classroom.

Today, as I say, in 51 counties, as well as in virtually almost every 
State, Character Counts is there, to help children learn early on the 
importance of what honesty and integrity mean, among the other pillars 
of good character.

Yet when we talk about Pete and what he has accomplished for our 
communities and our country, we would be doing a great disservice if we 
were to sum up his legacy as some series of issues. My affection for 
these Members I am talking about transcends the substantive issues 
which they have championed over the years. It goes deeper than that.

Pete's contribution to the Senate will be measured in a volume of 
bills he introduced with a number of votes he took; some 13,000, by the 
way, for which I think there are only 8 or 10 Senators who have a 
similar record.

But who Pete Domenici is, is much more than that. Long before he was 
a Senator, Pete was a wonderful father and husband. He grew up in a 
remarkable family, an immigrant family to our country--the classic 
American story. Many of our fellow colleagues can tell similar tales of 
how they arrived in this great Nation of ours and the contributions 
they have made.

Long before he dreamt of becoming chairman of the Senate Budget 
Committee, Pete was a boy counting pennies at his father's grocery 
business in New Mexico. So often all we hear about politicians is 
negativity--and it breeds cynicism, too much, frankly. But in my 
experience, the most effective legislators have remarkable strength and 
an inner confidence. That is Pete Domenici in so many ways.

You only need to know his wife Nancy, whom Jackie and I have gotten 
to know--they are neighbors of ours on Capitol Hill. We have had 
wonderful dinners together on Sunday nights, with Pete doing some of 
the cooking, and Nancy, I suspect, doing most of it, but Pete taking 
credit for most of it, as we would gather and have wonderful family 
gatherings, as they would embrace and cherish the new arrivals of my 
family, my two daughters. So we are losing not just a colleague but a 
neighbor and a friend and a person I care deeply about.

Together, these two people, Nancy and Pete, have raised eight 
wonderful children. As one of six myself, their house reminds me so 
much of growing up in my own house--kids, very independent thinkers, 
all challenging their parents on every imaginable subject matter, and 
then going out the door and parroting their parents' positions on every 
issue--the parents never to appreciate the fact that their words were 
actually carrying the day. It can be messy in those households, but it 
is never boring, and certainly never so in the Domenici household as 
well.

That is why there is one legislative accomplishment that best 
captures Pete Domenici, and that is the Character Counts bill that we 
started together in 1994. Character Counts was founded on a simple 
notion: that core ethical values are not just important to us as 
individuals, they form the foundation of a democratic society as well.

Values like trustworthiness and respect, responsibility and fairness, 
caring and citizenship are at the core of who Pete is as a human being. 
Despite the fact that it was Pete's own family, heritage, and faith 
that taught him character's importance--his mother and father, the nuns 
in his Catholic school--he recognized something that too often gets 
lost today: that in a society that celebrates our differences--our 
heritage, our personal interests as individuals--character is the one 
thing that transcends them, whether they be cultural, religious, 
economic, or social.

Somewhere along the way we lost that as a country. We forgot how 
important character is to the strength of our families, our 
communities, our institutions, and who we are as individuals.

Quite frankly, when Pete retires at the end of this year, in a matter 
of days now, I am worried we will be losing a piece of that from the 
institution in which he and I serve--the value that he has brought on 
this subject matter and so many others.

So let me say thanks to Pete for his warmth and friendship, and I 
wish him and Nancy the very best in the years to come. He is a 
remarkable individual and one who will make a difference in whatever he 
decides to do with the remainder of his life. I thank him for all of 
his contributions, and I look forward


to seeing him and Nancy as often as we can in the years to come.

















Wayne Allard


Mr. President, I, again, want to say a kind word or two about Wayne 
Allard as well, who is retiring. We serve on the Banking Committee 
together. He has a wonderful family history dating back decades in 
Colorado. Some of the earliest arrivals from the East were the Allard 
family in northern Colorado. That family has made wonderful 
contributions.

Wayne has been a wonderful member of the Banking Committee. We have 
not spent a lot of time on many issues together, but I can tell you, on 
issues such as regulatory reform and working together to see we had a 
good housing bill last summer, Wayne Allard was a very constructive and 
positive member, and he can be very proud of his contribution to this 
body.

Certainly, as to the landmark Transportation bill we sent to the 
President just a few years ago, Wayne Allard was as much responsible 
for that as any Member of this body, coming from a State where you 
normally would not think of transportation issues, certainly not mass 
transit issues as being pivotal. But Wayne Allard played a very 
important role in all of that.

So to Wayne Allard, his wife Joan, and their family, I wish them the 
very best as well in their retirement years.

Again, Mr. President, to my friend, John Warner, a special thanks, my 
dear friend. Now, when they say there is a white-haired Senator roaming 
around the floor, they will not have to guess whether it is the guy 
from Virginia or the guy from Connecticut, unless someone else arrives 
here with a full head of white hair. So to the white-haired caucus, 
again to John Warner, I thank you, dear friend.