# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e0e48c877081545d9df4f0bd6774e0b9`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. I thank the gentleman for yielding me the time.

Mr. Speaker, this is a serious matter. We have been discussing this 
now for days here in the House, but I want to tell you that I am 
opposed to this resolution, because it doesn't do anything.

I want to see our troops home, and I want to see our troops safe. I 
would venture to say that, with the exception of, maybe, Mr. Murtha, I 
have seen and visited more wounded troops, soldiers and Marines at our 
military hospitals than anybody in this Chamber; and I don't want them 
to be in harm's way any longer.

The problem is, I have strong recollections of September 11; and even 
before September 11, I remember the bombing of the USS Cole where our 
military, our sailors were killed and wounded. I remember the bombings 
of the American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. I remember the 
bombings of the Khobar Towers, where American airmen were housed in 
Saudi Arabia. I remember the bombing of the Marine barracks in Lebanon. 
I remember the hostages taken by terrorists and held for 444 days in 
Iran.

I remember all of that, but what I remember, that I will never, ever 
get out of my mind, is September 11, being on the highway immediately 
next to the Pentagon when the airplane hit the Pentagon and killed many 
of our friends and colleagues.

I remember going to Ground Zero just a few days after September 11 to 
deliver satellite telephones to the police and the firefighters because 
their existing communications didn't work due to all of the confusion, 
because of the disruption to the communications lines.

I remember the smoke was still rising, the dust was still flying.

I remember the American people demanded that something be done. They 
were tired of us being subjected to terrorist attacks, Americans being 
killed, and nothing being done about it.

The American people demanded that something be done, and they 
demanded through our Congress that something be done. The President was 
under this pressure and demanded that something be done. Congress 
debated then and two-thirds of the Members who were here at the time 
voted to give the President legal, lawful authority to do whatever had 
to be done.

This Congress should be prepared to do whatever has to be done to 
eliminate the terrorist threat. I don't care whether it is in Iraq, 
whether it is in Afghanistan, whether it is in Somalia, whether it is 
in Mogadishu, wherever it is, we have got to protect Americans from the 
threat of terrorism and from terrorist attacks; and we need to support 
our troops who are out there on the front line making sure that we at 
home are being protected.

Now these soldiers have been promised by the Commander in Chief that 
they are going to have some reinforcements, that they are going to have 
some help to fight this fight, the aggressive fight that is now finally 
taking place. The Maliki government was finally pressured to allow us 
to attack the targets that were real targets, to allow us to attack 
whether they were politically harmful to the Maliki government or not.

What about the soldiers in the field who were expecting that they 
would get some reinforcements and that maybe, with those 
reinforcements, they might get an extra night's sleep?

What about the soldier who had hoped that reinforcements would allow 
him or her to sit down to a hot lunch, rather than having to grab an 
MRE and eat that MRE on the run?

What about the soldiers in the field who hoped that reinforcements 
would allow them to find time to read their mail or send a letter to 
their loved ones back home?

Mr. Speaker, this is a serious issue. If this House is serious about 
Congress bringing home our troops, then do it right. This resolution 
doesn't bring any troops home. It doesn't provide any safety or 
security for our troops. It doesn't provide anything to help with the 
mission in the global war on terror.

If you want to do it right, bring a resolution out here to the floor 
that does it right, that brings them home, that stops whatever it is 
that we are doing there in Iraq.

But, if you know anything about what our military troops are doing, 
you know that once you get into a battle, once you get into a fight, it 
is easy to get into a war. You can almost slip into it without 
recognizing you are getting into it. But once you are in the fight, 
getting out is not easy.

Once you are in the battle, you have several options. You win or you 
lose or you surrender or you retreat or you negotiate. Who do we 
negotiate with? Negotiating would be nice if we could end this by 
negotiations. Who do you negotiate with? You can't even find Bin Laden, 
if, in fact, he is alive.

The problem here is, once you get into the fight, which we did with 
the support of the American people and with the support of this 
Congress, once you get into the fight, it is just not that easy to get 
out of it unless you win or you lose. Winning is better than losing.