# HONORING TURKEY'S SHARED COMMITMENT TO SPREADING DEMOCRACY AND  DEFEATING EXTREMISM
## `e11e3cc6df11e29cb10a1082193a5acb`
`Mr. WHITFIELD — 24 April 2008`

---


Mr. WHITFIELD. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize a strong 
friendship that has proven enormously important since the beginning of 
the Cold War. Time and time again, the Republic of Turkey has stood 
firmly with the United States as we have pursued our shared goals in a 
region where we have few steady allies. Turkey, a fellow NATO country, 
is a vital partner in our fight against extremism and an example of a 
vibrant democracy in a region burdened with inequality.

Turkey's assistance in supporting combat operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan has been instrumental in our efforts to bring opportunity 
and prosperity to millions of people. Its proximity to both countries 
has made it an ideal place to coordinate logistics and center supply 
routes. Over 74 percent of the air cargo that reaches American forces 
in Iraq passes through Incirlik Air Base in Southern Turkey, and around 
4,000 trucks carrying fuel, food, and water cross into Iraq from Turkey 
every day.

The Turkish government also has provided over $50 million for 
reconstruction efforts in Iraq, and another $100 million for 
Afghanistan. Turkey has committed over 800 troops and assumed command 
of the North American Treaty Organization (NATO) Regional Command 
Center in Kabul. Their Provincial Reconstruction Team has trained over 
1,900 members of the Afghan army, treated 650,000 patients at two fully 
equipped hospitals and four clinics, and educated 37,000 young minds at


the more than 30 schools it has constructed. In Iraq, Turkey's training 
programs for both Shiite and Sunni officials alike has been able to 
fill an important void in encouraging cooperation and reconciliation 
between the two rival factions.

Of course, our common bond goes deeper than mere military and 
political cooperation in Iraq and Afghanistan. We have in Turkey an 
ally that has proven it shares our commitment to spreading democracy, 
both within its own borders and amongst its neighbors. Their 70 million 
citizens have rejected an extremist version of Islam in favor of a 
secular, democratic government. Turkey also has been a valuable 
contributor to United Nations peacekeeping missions intent on halting 
the bloodshed in Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Sudan.

Madam Speaker, Turkey has earned our respect, friendship, and 
gratitude, and deserves recognition for its crucial assistance over the 
last 60 years. I look forward to strengthening this important 
relationship as we continue working toward our mutual interests.
