---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `e125978e172c06a63c3d178cf104f2f5`
`Mr. PRICE of North Carolina — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, today we are asked to vote 
for a fourth time in 2 months on legislation to provide funding for the 
ongoing military mission in Iraq.

The tally of this vote will reflect the dilemma facing this Congress 
as well as the American people. We are torn by two deeply held 
sentiments: on the one hand, we support our troops and want to make 
sure they are protected and supported in the field of battle; on the 
other hand, we are frustrated by a failed war policy and a President 
too stubborn to change course.

I voted against giving the President the authority to wage war in 
Iraq. I have introduced legislation to place a termination date on that 
authorization and to require the President to formulate and execute an 
exit strategy. But I have consistently voted for bills to fund the war 
effort because that funding is essential to our troops in the field. 
Over the last 2 months alone, I have voted three times for funding for 
the troops in different versions of a supplemental appropriations bill. 
But I will not vote yes today.

In addition to funding troop needs, the previous versions of the 
bill--despite differences among them and the compromises they 
contained--would have made substantial progress toward bringing this 
war to an end. The legislation before us today takes some modest steps 
forward by including benchmarks for progress for the first time and 
requiring the administration to report on whether its strategy is 
achieving them. Unfortunately, however, it does not advance us nearly 
far enough toward ending this war and putting Iraqis in charge of their 
own governance and defense.

The progress the bill does make has been the result of the pressure 
brought to bear by


the prior supplemental votes. I will be voting against this bill as a 
way of helping maintain and increase that pressure.

Let no one mistake the significance of the vote we take today. This 
fourth vote is not primarily about material support for the troops--
every Member of this body supports our troops. This vote is 
fundamentally about the future of our policy in Iraq.

Even if this bill were to fail today, the result would not be a cut-
off of funding for the troops. The result would be to force the 
administration to give ground it should have given long ago, and that, 
sooner or later, I believe it will be forced to give by this Congress.

There is nothing about our military strategy that can solve what are 
fundamentally political and sectarian conflicts among Iraqis. Military 
and intelligence leaders have consistently declared that the solution 
in Iraq will be political and diplomatic in nature, not military. We 
have increasingly asked the military to work toward goals that military 
force cannot achieve: political agreements between intransigent Iraqi 
leaders, equitable sharing of power and resources, and an end to 
sectarian-based civil war. In the meantime, our presence has become a 
provocation for insurgency and a magnet for international terrorism.

We have, in short, left our troops in an impossible situation. I am 
not willing to vote to fund their operations without at the same time 
compelling a change in policy that will bring them home.

The struggle to change the U.S. course in Iraq is not over. The 
American people are speaking loudly and clearly. Our efforts over the 
last 2 months have moved the debate in the right direction, and we will 
continue exerting pressure on the administration to alter its course in 
the days and weeks to come as we consider other legislation related to 
the war. In fact, it should not escape notice that we also passed today 
a resolution requiring consideration of legislation in September that 
would require an end to the occupation of Iraq.

Our goal in considering the President's supplemental appropriations 
request was to confront the President over his failed policy and to 
force a change in course. Even as this supplemental legislation likely 
passes into law, we can be confident that we have taken important steps 
toward this goal. We have demonstrated to the administration that it 
can no longer proceed with its failed policy unaccountably. While many 
in the House and the other body, where the power of filibuster can be 
used to obstruct progress, have resisted efforts to craft a more 
effective Iraq policy, the President and his allies in Congress have 
been put on notice that the tide is turning.

I regret that this bill will not immediately bring the change to our 
Iraq policy that we so desperately need. But it does represent one more 
turn of the screw. The President should recognize that a growing number 
of Members of this Congress, and a clear majority of the American 
people, will continue boring deeper toward the heart of his failed 
policy. And we will not stop pressing until our troops begin to come 
home.