# VETERANS' COMPENSATION COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 2008
## `e127893ea90c4eb03f86014353d851be`
`Mr. FILNER — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

This bill is called the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living 
Adjustment Act, which was introduced by myself and Mr. Rodriguez of 
Texas. And I want to thank our ranking member, Mr. Buyer, who, of 
course, supported this legislation and helped us to get here with 
unanimous support from our committee.

The fact that we were able to get this bill to the floor only a month 
after its introduction shows the House leadership's commitment to our 
Nation's veterans and their survivors.

Since 1976 Congress has passed a measure to direct the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to increase the rates of basic compensation for 
disabled veterans and the rates of dependency and indemnity 
compensation, so-called DIC, to their survivors and dependents, along 
with other benefits, in order to keep pace with the rising cost of 
living. The disability COLA here would be effective on December 1 of 
this year and will be equal to that provided on an annual basis to 
Social Security recipients.

Madam Speaker, this bill will provide over 3 million disabled 
veterans from the World War I era through the current conflicts in Iraq 
and Afghanistan that VA estimates will be receiving disability 
compensation for the coming fiscal year. It will help over 300,000 of 
their survivors during the same period.

Many of the nearly 3.5 million recipients of these benefits depend on 
these tax-free payments not only to provide for their own basic needs 
but those of their spouses, children, and parents as well. Without an 
annual COLA increase, these veterans and their families would see the 
value of their hard-earned benefits slowly erode.



We would be derelict in our duty if we failed to guarantee that those 
who sacrifice so much for this country receive benefits and services 
that don't keep pace with their necessities. I know we have had some 
disagreement over the past weeks over what, and how, our priorities for 
veterans should be funded. But on this bill, there is no disagreement. 
The veterans compensation COLA is included in the CBO baseline. In 
layman's terms, that means we have already paid for this.

Regardless of whether or not you agree or disagree with the funding 
of the war in Iraq, our young men and women who have served in our 
Armed


Forces deserve to be adequately compensated for injuries due to their 
military service. We fund the war, we must fund the warrior, and their 
families and their survivors, by ensuring their benefits will keep pace 
with their living expenses. Let's ensure that these benefits make ends 
meet at the end of the month.

Madam Speaker, as we approach our country's 140th Memorial Day 
commemoration, I ask all my colleagues to support this bill and send a 
clear message of support to our troops: You will be taken care of when 
you return, and we will not forget your sacrifice.

No action by a Member of Congress is more irritating to many 
Americans than those who say they support the troops but then turn a 
cold shoulder when those same troops come home, become veterans, and 
need our help to become whole again. That costs money; money we should 
not hesitate to spend, just like our military men and women did not 
hesitate to offer to lay down their lives to defend our freedom and the 
way of life that we cherish.

I ask my colleagues to consider these facts when voting on the full 
portfolio of veterans' legislation that is under consideration on the 
floor today, and of course to support passage of this bill, the 
Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2008.

I would reserve the balance of my time.