# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `e139e43db1a8838afec95ab82c0de442`
`Mr. ROSS â€” 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening, as I do most Tuesday 
evenings, on behalf of the 43-member strong, fiscally conservative 
Democratic Blue Dog Coalition. Some people may say, what's the Blue Dog 
Coalition and what's it all about?

Well, Mr. Speaker, we're a group of fiscally conservative Democrats 
that are trying to restore fiscal discipline and common sense to our 
Nation's government. We're a group of conservative Democrats that were 
founded back in 1994 after the Republicans took control of the 
Congress. And at the time, it was a group that felt like they were 
being choked blue by the extremes of both parties. And today, we 
believe that we are in the middle, which is where we believe the 
majority of the people in America are.

We talk a lot about fiscal discipline. We talk a lot about 
accountability, because it is important, Mr. Speaker, that this 
Congress and this administration is responsible and accountable for how 
your tax money is being spent.

As you walk the halls of Congress, it is not difficult to know when 
you're walking by the office of a fellow Blue Dog Member, a fellow 
fiscally conservative, common-sense Democrat, because you will see this 
poster that says


the Blue Dog Coalition, and it reminds Members of Congress and the 
constituents, the citizens of America who walk the halls of Congress 
that today the U.S. national debt is $8,831,299,779,793. Again, 
8,831,299,779,793. That's a big number. But if you were to divide that 
by every man, woman and child living in America today, including those 
born today, every one of us, our share of the national debt is $29,242. 
It's what those of us in the Blue Dog Coalition refer to as the debt 
tax, D-E-B-T tax. And that is one tax that cannot be cut and that 
cannot go away until we get our Nation's fiscal house in order.

So for the past 6 years we've seen record deficit after record 
deficit, which has resulted in this record debt. Now that the Democrats 
have a majority in this Congress, we, as members of the Blue Dog 
Coalition, are trying to put our Nation's fiscal house back in order. 
We are trying to restore fiscal sanity to our Nation's government. We 
are trying to restore common sense to our Nation's government.

As a small child growing up, I always heard it was the Democrats that 
spent the money, and it was the Republicans that balanced the budget. 
And after 6 years of the Republicans controlling the White House, House 
and Senate, what did they leave us? They left us the largest debt ever, 
ever in our Nation's history and they gave us record deficit after 
record deficit.

When I first came here in 2001, the first bill I filed as a Member of 
Congress was a bill to tell the politicians in Washington to keep their 
hands off the Social Security Trust Fund. Republican leadership refused 
to give me a hearing or a vote on that bill and now we know why, 
because they have continued to raid the Social Security Trust Fund to 
fund tax cuts for folks earning over $400,000 a year, and they have 
continued to pass record deficit after record deficit and leaving our 
children and grandchildren with the bill.

The total national debt from 1789 to 2000 was $5.67 trillion. But by 
2010, the total national debt will have increased to $10.88 trillion. 
Mr. Speaker, this is a doubling, a doubling of the 211-year debt in 
just 10 years. Interest payments on this debt are one of the fastest 
growing parts of the Federal budget, and the debt tax, D-E-B-T is one 
that cannot be repealed until we get our Nation's fiscal house in order 
and return to the days of a balanced budget.

At the Ross household in Prescott, Arkansas, my wife makes sure that 
we live within our budget. And I can assure you that most of the people 
in America live within their budget. Small businesses, big businesses, 
the majority of businesses in America live within their budget. Farm 
families live within their budget, and I don't believe it's asking too 
much to ask our Nation to do what 49 States are doing, and that's 
living within their means, requiring a balanced budget.

Why do deficits matter? Deficits reduce economic growth. They burden 
our children and grandchildren with liabilities.

They increase our reliance on foreign lenders who now own 40 percent 
of our debt. Let me repeat that. They increase our reliance on foreign 
lenders who now own 40 percent of our debt. The U.S. is becoming 
increasingly dependent on foreign lenders. Foreign lenders currently 
hold a total of about $2.199 trillion of our public debt. Compare this 
to only $623.3 billion in foreign holdings in 1993.

Who are they? Our Nation continues to borrow money not only from the 
Social Security Trust Fund, but under the past 6 years of Republican 
rule, not only have they borrowed money from the Social Security Trust 
Fund, with absolutely no provision made on how it's going to be paid 
back or when it's going to be paid back, but they've also borrowed 
money from foreign central banks and foreign investors.

And much like David Letterman, we have a top 10 list. The top 10 
current lenders, countries loaning money to the United States of 
America that, for the past 6 years, under these failed policies of the 
Republican leadership, have given tax cuts to people earning over 
$400,000 a year leaving the rest of us to foot the bill.



So who are they? Rounding out the list, number one, Japan, our Nation 
has borrowed $637.4 billion from Japan; China, $346.5 billion; the 
United Kingdom, $223.5 billion; OPEC, imagine that, $97.1 billion; 
Korea, $67.7 billion; Taiwan, $63.2 billion; the Caribbean Banking 
Centers, $63.6 billion; Hong Kong, $51 billion; Germany, $52.1 billion.

And rounding out the top 10 countries that lend money to the United 
States of America to help us pay off these massive debts: Mexico. That 
is right. The United States of America has borrowed $38.2 billion from 
foreign central banks and foreign lenders in Mexico to fund tax cuts in 
this country for folks earning over $400,000 a year.

Record deficit after record deficit equals what? The largest debt 
ever in our Nation's history: $8,831,299,779,793. That is right. Today, 
the U.S. national debt, $8,831,299,779,793 and some change, but we ran 
out of room on our poster.

Well, as I mentioned earlier, another reason deficits should matter 
is because interest payments on the debt are one of the fastest-growing 
parts of the Federal budget. In fact, our Nation is spending about a 
half billion dollars a day, that is with a ''b.'' Our Nation is 
spending about a half billion dollars a day paying interest on the 
national debt. And that, Mr. Speaker, is before we borrow an additional 
billion dollars every day. And that is money that cannot go to 
education, to homeland security, to veterans' benefits, to build 
highways and roads, that can create jobs and economic opportunities, 
because it is going to pay interest on the national debt. It is going 
to pay interest to Japan, China, United Kingdom, OPEC, Korea, Taiwan, 
Caribbean Banking Centers, Hong Kong, Germany, and Mexico.

In my district, I represent about half of Arkansas, 29 counties. 
About 13 of them are in the delta region, one of the poorest regions in 
our country. A lot of hope in that region that I-69 will some day bring 
jobs and economic opportunities. I-69 was announced 5 years before I 
was born in Indianapolis; and with the exception of 40 miles in 
Kentucky and the section they are now building from Memphis to the 
casinos, there has not been any of it completed in 50 years south of 
Indianapolis.

We need about $1.6 billion to complete Interstate 69 across my 
district in Arkansas. That is a lot of money. At least for a country 
boy from Prescott, Arkansas, that is a lot of money. But, Mr. Speaker, 
we will spend more money paying interest on the national debt in the 
next 4 days than it would take to build I-69 across the delta region of 
my district, the delta region of this country, creating jobs and 
economic opportunities for generations to come. That is on the eastern 
side of my district bordering Mississippi.

On the western side of my district, bordering Texas and Louisiana to 
the south and also Oklahoma to the west, there is a lot of hope for the 
completion of Interstate 49. It will be the first north-south corridor 
through the middle of our country. We need about $2 billion to complete 
Interstate 49. They have been talking about it since I was a small 
child. About $2 billion is needed to complete Interstate 49. A lot of 
money. But, again, we will spend more money paying interest on the 
national debt in the next 4 days than it would take to complete I-49 
across Arkansas.

There are a lot of people that would like to see U.S. Highway 82 
four-laned across Arkansas from Texas to Mississippi. It is the only 
section of U.S. Highway 82 that is not four-laned. I don't know. It 
would take $3 or $4 million to do it. We will spend more money paying 
interest on the national debt today than it would take to four-lane 
U.S. Highway 82.

Interstate 530 is under construction in my district. We need $300 
million to complete it. It will connect I-30 and I-40 in Little Rock 
and Pine Bluff with someday I-69 between Monticello and Warren, 
Arkansas, and eventually, hopefully, find its way to connect with I-20 
in Louisiana at Bastrop, Louisiana. We need, depending on what section 
of it you want to complete, between $300 million and $800 million to 
complete that highway. A lot of money. But, again, we will spend more 
money paying interest on the national debt in the next 2 days than it 
would take to complete this interstate, creating jobs and economic 
opportunities.

If you think back with me, the last two Presidents to make any 
significant


investment in our Nation's infrastructure was Roosevelt with the WPA 
program and Eisenhower with the interstate program. It is time that we 
invest in this Nation's infrastructure. We can create jobs and put 
people to work to build this Nation's infrastructure; and, once it is 
completed, it will create economic opportunities and jobs for many 
generations to come. But as long as we are spending half a billion 
dollars a day paying interest on the national debt and borrowing 
another billion dollars each day from places like Japan and China and 
Mexico, we will continue to neglect our Nation's infrastructure. And 
that is one reason why it is important that we get our Nation's fiscal 
house in order.

Let me tell you another reason that interest payments on our national 
debt do matter, and this chart makes it crystal clear. In the red, Mr. 
Speaker, you will see the amount of money that we spend each year 
paying interest on the national debt. That is the red bar. Contrast 
that to what we spend on education.

We say we love our children. We talk about how we want to ensure that 
they receive a world-class education. We talk about making college 
education more affordable for our young people. We talk about giving 3- 
and 4-year-olds a fighting chance, and we should.

We live among the freest of all people in the world. One of the few 
things in life we do not get to choose is who our parents are. Some 
children get really lucky; some don't. I did, and I can tell you that 
as an American citizen and as a Member of this House I believe that we 
have a duty and an obligation to be there for all of God's children. We 
can invest a little bit in them at an early age and have a good chance 
at turning a lot of children that have been neglected at home into 
productive, tax-paying adults. Or we can continue to neglect them and 
do what? Spend tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of dollars 
warehousing them for a lifetime behind bars. I believe that we should 
commit ourselves to education.

But look at the light blue bar. Look at how much we are spending on 
our children's education compared to the red bar, how much we are 
spending simply paying interest on the national debt.

Homeland security, a lot of talk these days about homeland security. 
But look how much we are really putting into homeland security. Again, 
the red bar demonstrates the amount of money that we are spending of 
your tax money, Mr. Speaker, paying interest on the national debt. 
Contrast that to the light green bar, which demonstrates how much money 
we are spending protecting our homeland.

And, finally, and very sad, the dark blue bar, look at the amount of 
money we are spending on our veterans, on our veterans. And we all know 
that we have got a new generation of veterans coming home from places 
like Iraq and Afghanistan. Contrast the dark blue box, the amount of 
money we are spending taking care of our veterans, keeping our promises 
to our veterans, ensuring that they receive health care, compare how 
much we are spending on our veterans to how much we spend paying 
interest on the national debt. And I believe that chart very clearly 
demonstrates why deficits matter, why debts matter, and why the 43 
members of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition are 
committed to commonsense principles that will help get this Nation's 
fiscal house back in order.


One of the new Members of Congress and new member of the Blue Dog 
Coalition is my good friend from Indiana, Mr. Joe Donnelly. At this 
time, I yield to him and thank him for joining me this evening.