# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `e145c8cedfeb28ab18aa2e5ee5bd6448`
`Mr. FEINGOLD â€” 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I am pleased the Senate has voted 
overwhelmingly to allow some debate of the Feingold-Reid al-Qaida bill, 
but it is pretty clear to everyone that this body still doesn't fully 
understand and is not ready to address head on the threat posed by al-
Qaida. As was made clear during debate on the Iraq redeployment 
legislation, too many Members confuse the war in Iraq with the fight 
against al-Qaida. That is true of the administration too. While it is 
focused on Iraq, al-Qaida has reconstituted itself along the 
Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Don't take my word for it. Listen to our 
intelligence community.

Early this month, the Director of National Intelligence testified 
before Congress that the central leadership based in the border area of 
Pakistan is al-Qaida's most dangerous component. A few months ago, the 
DNI again repeated the intelligence community's assessment that over 
the last few years ''Al Qaeda's central leadership has been able to 
regenerate the core operational capabilities needed to conduct attacks 
in the Homeland''--our homeland, Mr. President, the United States of 
America.

The DNI also testified that al-Qaida ''is improving the last key 
aspect of its ability to attack the U.S.: the identification, training, 
and positioning of operatives for an attack in the Homeland.''

Meanwhile, the Federally Administered Tribal Areas in Pakistan is 
serving as a staging ground for al-Qaida in support of the Taliban and 
providing it with a base similar to the one it used to have across the 
border in Afghanistan. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, ADM 
Mike Mullen, testified


recently that ''the most likely near term attack on the United States 
will come from Al Qaeda via'' its safe havens in Pakistan--not in Iraq, 
in Pakistan. Over the past year, we have seen an unprecedented rise in 
suicide bombings in Pakistan. The Taliban is gaining ground in 
Afghanistan. While we may be sending an additional 3,200 marines to 
Afghanistan in the near future, we have been fighting for far too long 
there with too few soldiers and too few reconstruction funds.

With the Joint Chiefs of Staff saying in ''Iraq we do what we must 
and in Afghanistan we do what we can,'' it is no wonder that 
Afghanistan is teetering on the edge. Let me remind my colleagues that 
it was from Afghanistan--Afghanistan, not Iraq--that the 9/11 attacks 
were planned. And it was under the Taliban regime, which is once again 
gaining ground, that al-Qaida was able to flourish so freely.

Al-Qaida affiliates from Africa to Southeast Asia pose a significant 
terrorist threat. While we have been so myopically fixated on Iraq, the 
threat from an al-Qaida affiliate in north Africa has grown and now, 
according to the DNI's testimony, ''represents a significant threat to 
the United States and European interests in the region.'' Since its 
merger with al-Qaida in September 2006, it has expanded its targets to 
include the United States, the United Nations, and other interests. And 
it likely got a further boost when al-Qaida leadership announced last 
November that the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group united with al-Qaida 
under AQIM's leadership. Its possible reach covers Tunisia, Morocco, 
Nigeria, Mauritania, Libya, and other countries. Meanwhile, it is using 
deadly tactics that suggest it is acquiring knowledge from the war in 
Iraq. That is right. The war in Iraq may be being used as a training 
ground by forces that wish to do us harm. Another way of saying it is, 
our troops are being used as a way to train people to give them the 
skills to launch attacks in other places.

Al-Qaida has affiliates around the world--in Saudi Arabia, the United 
Arab Emirates, Yemen, Lebanon, where al-Qaida poses a growing threat, 
the Horn of Africa, and Southeast Asia. We cannot ignore the rest of 
the world to focus solely on Iraq. Al-Qaida is and will continue to be 
a global terrorist organization with dangerous affiliates around the 
world. We are watching al-Qaida strengthen and develop its affiliates 
around the world while we remain bogged down in Iraq.


We need a robust military presence and an effective reconstruction 
program in Afghanistan. We need to build strong partnerships where al-
Qaida and its affiliates are operating--across north Africa, in 
Southeast Asia, and along the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan, 
and we need to address the root causes of the terrorist threat, not 
just rely on military power to get the job done.

We can start doing that by passing S. 2634. This bill requires the 
administration to provide Congress with a report outlining a 
comprehensive global strategy to defeat al-Qaida and its affiliates. 
The strategy must ensure U.S. resources and assets are targeted 
appropriately to meet the regional and country-specific threats we 
face, and that troop deployments do not overstretch our military.

Who could oppose a commonsense bill such as this? Well, as I noted 
earlier, the administration actually issued a veto threat for this 
bill. That threat makes the baffling argument that preparing a report 
on the threat of al-Qaida may somehow ''inhibit the President's 
constitutional authority as Commander in Chief.'' That is not all. The 
administration also argues that preparing a plan that prioritizes 
operations against al-Qaida would tie the hands of commanders.

This is just plain double-talk. We are trying to help our commanders 
and the rest of our Government to properly dedicate their resources to 
our most pressing national security concern. This bill does not tell 
our commanders how to carry out any operations; it merely requires a 
report. The Congress has a constitutional responsibility, in 
collaboration with the President, to determine what are our national 
security priorities. That is what we should be doing. That is what this 
bill would do. Unless the President has completely abandoned the idea 
of civilian control of the military, and of the shared responsibilities 
between the legislative and executive branches, then he should have no 
objection to my bill.

The administration does say that it ''supports the bill's goals and 
intent, with regard to updating and informing Congress and the American 
people on the strategy to combat terrorism.'' I guess that is good 
news. But then it cites two documents it has already prepared on this 
topic. One is the September 2006 National Strategy for Combating 
Terrorism, which sets broad goals but does not include the detail 
called for in our bill about how limited resources will be allocated to 
achieve this strategic vision. That 2006 document also does not 
prioritize the geographic--country and region-specific--threats we face 
from AQ and its affiliates, which is essential because how else--how 
else, Mr. President--will we know where to focus our resources?

The other document cited by the administration is the National 
Implementation Plan. I am a member of both the Senate Intelligence and 
Foreign Relations Committees, and I am not even allowed to see that 
document. The administration will not even share it with the full 
Intelligence Committee. So the idea this document is an acceptable 
substitute for what is called for in the Feingold-Reid bill is absurd.

The administration suggests our bill limits the President's authority 
to withhold information. Now, I agree we need to protect classified 
information, and there is nothing in my bill--nothing--that would 
prevent the addition of a classified annex. Much of our strategic 
planning, however, is not classified, consistent with our country's 
belief in open government and accountability.

The American people deserve to be told, to the extent possible 
without divulging classified information, what their government is 
doing to protect them. The President's veto threat is further evidence 
of his unwillingness to be straight with the American people about the 
fact that the war in Iraq is actually undermining our national 
security. The President's current strategy is to prioritize operations 
in Iraq, even to the detriment of operations in Afghanistan against 
those who attacked us on 9/11.

Now, that does not make sense. It has to change, and we have to 
change it today by passing this Feingold-Reid bill, refocusing our 
attention and resources on al-Qaida.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.