# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `e14727851ad8576e652f7f53337970d3`
`Mr. MELANCON — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. MELANCON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Katrina-
Rita supplemental. The President was quoted yesterday as saying we 
needed a clean bill to fund the rebuild of Iraq. I disagree with that 
statement and suggest that we need the comprehensive bill put forth by 
the majority, so that the people of the Gulf Coast States can rebuild. 
For too long we are funding the rebuilding of foreign communities. 
While this is admirable, the American people deserve first call on the 
rebuilding money, and help when it is their very tax dollars that are 
being spent.

My Caucus leadership took me seriously when I challenged them to put 
forth action rather than words. The supplemental appropriation bill we 
are debating tonight is the first and only vehicle available to 
Katrina-Rita affected citizens! Because of budgetary rules, there is no 
other opportunity to address the unfinished levees, the rebuilding 
needs of local governments, affordable housing so people can return, 
and help for the coastal fisheries and farmers who have, to date, been 
virtually ignored.

My colleagues in the affected Gulf Coast States need to decide where 
they stand. If we let this one chance for $1.3 billion in levee 
assistance pass us by, every Member of Congress who votes against this 
should be held accountable for putting South Louisiana's citizens in 
harms way.

Are you in support of your Party, or are you for helping 
Louisianians, Mississipians and taxpaying Americans?

I support the Americans!

I would also like to submit the following clarification for the 
record:

This supplemental will provide funding for agriculture and fisheries 
disaster assistance along the Gulf Coast. For livestock producers, our 
intent is to increase the payment limit for those who lost hundreds of 
cattle as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. These cattlemen have 
been inadequately compensated as a result of previously underfunded 
USDA programs. Our citrus growers--whose groves were destroyed from up 
to a month of saltwater several feet deep--should receive an increase 
in the payment rate for USDA's hurricane assistance program.

Additionally, this bill contains desperately needed assistance for 
our shrimp, menhaden,


as well as other fisheries that were devastated by the storms and, 
unfortunately have been forgotten for the past 18 months by the 
Administration and Congress.