# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `e147fca200e2503431a44c625982664c`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 16 November 2009`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Madam President, I know my colleague, the chairman of 
the Veterans Affairs and Military Construction Subcommittee, has 
already spoken on the bill. I rise to make a couple of points.

First, I thank the Senate for not meeting on this bill last Tuesday, 
when it was scheduled to be taken up and passed and, instead, allowing 
so many of our colleagues to go to the memorial service at Fort Hood in 
Killeen. It was a wonderful service. So many of our colleagues were in 
attendance from all over the country to show their support for the 
troops, to show sympathy for the families. There were approximately 200 
family members there. Of course, the President and Mrs. Obama were 
there. There were many House Members. It showed to the base and to the 
thousands of troops who attended how much we care about them. I am 
grateful to my colleagues for that gesture.

We have a good bill. My colleague Senator Johnson and I have worked 
together on this bill. We have stayed within our budget. We have tried 
to make sure we are covering the needs of our veterans.

The emphasis in the veterans section is in health care. We know we 
must do more for the mental health and getting people who have been in 
Afghanistan or Iraq back into the mainstream so they can lead normal 
lives. We have done that. We have put over $4 billion into mental 
health funding. We are setting up centers now for mental health 
excellence. I am pleased we are making that a priority.

In addition, spinal cord and traumatic brain injuries. We know so 
many of our wounded soldiers suffer traumatic injuries. We need to make 
sure we have the ability to give them all of the rehabilitation 
necessary for them to reenter a life of quality. We are adding one more 
tier 1 polytrauma center. We have four. We are adding one more in San 
Antonio, TX, in the VA center, which we are very pleased to be able to 
do.


The homeless veterans program is also being augmented in this bill, 
and I applaud Senator Johnson's efforts for creating the initiative 
last year to increase the VA footprint in our rural areas for our 
health care facilities. I think this is very helpful and warranted.

On the military construction side, this morning I was at Dyess Air 
Force Base, where we broke ground on two incredible facilities. One 
will be a maintenance facility for both the B-1 bombers and also the C-
130s and new C-130Js that are going to be coming into our system next 
year. It is going to be a great facility, and we are very excited about 
that. We have a Reserve training headquarters there at Dyess, as well, 
and we broke ground on that building today.

In addition, our BRAC has been fully funded. That was a priority of 
mine because I thought it was very important we fully fund our BRAC.