---
---

# IRAQ RESOLUTION
## `e15301bb94fd4c51af016679e40edc52`
`Mr. WARNER — 12 February 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I shall be joined by a number of 
colleagues and the purpose of our taking this time is as follows: We 
have decided to put in an amendment to H.J. Res. 20, amendment number 
259 which will be printed in today's record. This amendment mirrors S. 
Con. Res. 7, a resolution prepared by myself and others sometime last 
week, which expresses certain concerns we have with regard to the 
President's plan as announced on January 10 of this year.

This amendment, to H.J. Res. 20 is cosponsored by Mr. Levin, Ms. 
Collins, Ben Nelson of Nebraska, Mr. Hagel, Ms. Snowe, Mr. Smith, Mr. 
Biden, and as other Senators return to town, we may have further 
cosponsors.

We are concerned that the fighting rages on throughout Iraq, and 
particularly in Baghdad. It is very important that the Senate should, 
as the greatest deliberative body--certainly in matters of war and 
peace--in a prompt way address the issues regarding Iraq.

Our men and women in the Armed Forces are fighting bravely in that 
conflict, as they are in conflicts elsewhere worldwide. Our concerns 
are heartfelt, not driven by political motivation. As we gathered as a 
group in the past 2 weeks to work on this, we took note of the fact 
that the President, on January 10, in his message to the Nation 
explicitly said that others could come forward with their ideas. I will 
paraphrase it--the exact quote is in the amendment we are putting in 
today--that he would take into consideration the views of others. So in 
a very constructive and a respectful way, our group said we disagreed 
with the President and we gave a series of points urging him to 
consider those points as he begins to implement such plan as finally 
devised throughout Iraq but most specifically in Baghdad.

We are very respectful of the fact that the plan put in by the 
President was in three parts: a diplomatic part, an economic part, and 
a military part. We explicitly stated in the resolution our support for 
the diplomatic and economic parts, and we are hopeful it can be put 
together in a timely fashion. There is some concern as to whether the 
three main parts can progress together, unified, in this operation, 
given the short timetable to implement it. So two parts of the program 
we wholeheartedly support and so state in this amendment.

The concern is about the military section. We state the explicit 
nature of our concerns. Some Senators have suggested the resolution 
expresses matters which I can find no source whatsoever in the 
resolution for those complaints. Nevertheless, I will address in the 
course of this time each and every one of those concerns.

Indeed, on the weekend talk shows, one Senator said: My problem with 
the Warner proposal and others that criticize the surge is, what is 
your plan? All right. That is a legitimate question. I say that our 
amendment states a clear strategy. It says as follows:




 The Senate believes the United States should continue 


 vigorous operations in Anbar Province specifically for the 


 purpose of combating an insurgency including elements 


 associated with the al-Qaida movement and denying terrorists 


 a safe haven.


Secondly, the primary objective of the overall strategy in Iraq 
should be to encourage Iraqi leaders to make political compromises that 
will foster reconciliation and strengthen the unity government, 
ultimately leading to improvements in the security situation.

Next, the military part of the strategy should focus on maintaining 
the territorial integrity of Iraq, denying international terrorists a 
safe haven, conducting counterterrorism operations, promoting regional 
stability, supporting the Iraqi efforts to bring


greater security to Baghdad, and training and equipping Iraqi forces to 
take full responsibility for their own security.

Likewise, another part of our amendment states:




 The United States military operations should, as much as 


 possible, be confined to these goals and should charge the 


 Iraqi military with the primary mission of combating 


 sectarian violence.



 The United States Government should engage selected nations 


 in the Middle East to develop a regional, internationally 


 sponsored peace and reconciliation process. Overall, 


 military, diplomatic, and economic strategies should not be 


 regarded as an open-ended or unconditional commitment, but 


 rather, as a new strategy, hereafter should be conditioned 


 upon the Iraqi government meeting benchmarks that must be 


 delivered in writing and agreed to by the Prime Minister.


Then we spell out a series of benchmarks. Such benchmarks should 
include, but not be limited to, the deployment of that number of 
additional Iraqi security forces as specified in the plan in Baghdad, 
ensuring equitable distribution of resources of the Government of Iraq 
without regard to the sect or ethnicity of recipients, enacting and 
implementing legislation to ensure that the oil resources of Iraq 
benefit Sunni Arabs, Shia Arabs, Kurds and other Iraqi citizens in an 
equitable manner, and the authority of the Iraqi commanders to make 
tactical and operational decisions without political intervention.

Further, some Senators have indicated, again incorrectly, that our 
resolution either fails to recognize, or disagrees with all aspects of 
the President's plan, namely the political and economic aspects, in 
addition to the military part of his plan.

In fact, our resolution acknowledges directly that the President's 
plan is multi-faceted. Our resolution states, whereas, on January 10, 
2007, following consultations with the Iraqi Prime Minister, the 
President announced a new strategy, which consists of three basic 
elements: diplomatic, economic, and military.

As such, our resolution disagrees only with the military aspect of 
the President's plan, and actually supports the diplomatic and economic 
aspects of his plan.

Finally, some Senators have suggested that our resolution either 
fails to support the troops, or threatens a cut-off in funding. 
Actually, our resolution does neither. It states forcefully our support 
for the troops: whereas, over 137,000 American military personnel are 
currently serving in Iraq, like thousands of others since March 2003, 
with the bravery and professionalism consistent with the finest 
traditions of the United States Armed Forces, and are deserving of our 
support of all Americans, which they have strongly; whereas, many 
American service personnel have lost their lives, and many more have 
been wounded, in Iraq, and the American people will always honor their 
sacrifices and honor their families.

And our resolution, specifically protects funding for our troops in 
the field and states: the Congress should not take any action that will 
endanger United States military forces in the field, including the 
elimination or reduction of funds for troops in the field, as such an 
action with respect to funding would undermine their safety or harm 
their effectiveness in pursuing their assigned missions.

In sum, our resolution aims not to contravene the Constitutional 
authorities as Commander-in-Chief, but, rather, to accept the offer to 
Congress made by the President on January 10, 2007 that, ''if members 
have improvements that can be made, we will make them. If circumstances 
change, we will adjust.''

It is clear that the United States' strategy and operations in Iraq 
can only be sustained and achieved with support from the American 
people and with a level of bipartisanship in Congress.

The purpose of this resolution is not to cut our forces or to set a 
timetable for withdrawal, but, rather, to express the genuine concerns 
of a number of Senators from both parties about the President's plan.

It is not meant to be confrontational, but instead to provide a sense 
of bipartisanship resolve on our new strategy in Iraq. It follows many 
of the conclusions of the Baker-Hamilton report by focusing on what is 
truly in our national interest in Iraq, and spells those goals out in 
detail.

I want to divide our time between colleagues. I will ask at this time 
that the distinguished Senator from Nebraska, Mr. Hagel, be recognized 
and that, following his comments, I shall be recognized again to give 
the remainder of my remarks. I say on a personal note to the Senator 
how much I valued our conversation over the weekend, together with our 
distinguished colleague from Maine, after which we decided today to put 
the language of S. Con. Res. 7 in as an amendment to the pending matter 
before the Senate.

I yield the floor.