# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `e153d1e602b2077964db2663330756cd`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. I yield myself the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, at this moment we have close to 100,000 U.S. servicemen 
and -women deployed in Afghanistan. The war has raged for nearly 9 
years, and our mission has changed at least that many times. We have 
lost over 1,000 of our brave soldiers. Thousands more have been 
wounded. We are spending hundreds of billions of dollars in borrowed 
money. In 9 years, neither George W. Bush nor Barack Obama nor this 
Congress has seen fit to pay for the war. That's a burden we are 
placing on our children and our grandchildren.

All of us, every single one of us, Republicans and Democrats alike, 
are dedicated to defeating al Qaeda and holding to account those who 
committed the horrible atrocities on September 11.

What we are proposing today in no way lessens our commitment to that 
fight, but our current policy in Afghanistan is deeply flawed. We are 
getting sucked deeper and deeper and deeper into a war with no clear 
end. It is a war that will continue to claim the lives of our soldiers; 
it is a war that will continue to bankrupt us, and it is a war that 
will not enhance our national security.

My friends, we can no longer go along to get along. All of us have a 
responsibility to make sure that we are doing the right thing. It's not 
just the President's war. It's our war, too. We are the ones who voted 
to put our soldiers in harm's way, and we are the ones who keep funding 
it. My friends on the other side of the aisle who question, Why are we 
asking questions? Why don't we just rubber-stamp what the Senate did or 
rubber-stamp what the President sent us? Well, the reason why we 
shouldn't do that is because that's not our job. We're supposed to 
deliberate, and we are supposed to ask questions, and we're supposed to 
figure out whether we're doing the right thing. They are our 
constituents, our family members who are in harm's way.

We need to let this administration know that we want a way out. We 
want a plan. That's not a radical idea. We want a plan. We want an exit 
strategy. For the last 30 years, we said, Never again will we commit 
our Armed Forces without a clearly defined mission, and that means a 
mission with a beginning, a middle, a transition period, and an end. 
Well, that's all we're asking for today, a clearly defined mission. 
What's the plan?

We are dealing with the worst economy since the Great Depression. Our 
citizens, our constituents are hurting, yet we're told that we cannot 
afford to extend unemployment benefits to out-of-work Americans because 
we cannot afford it. We are told we can't help more families afford a 
college education or rebuild our roads and our bridges. But when it 
comes to supporting a corrupt, incompetent Karzai government, we're 
supposed to be a bottomless pit. Don't ask any questions. Just give 
them all the money they want. Look the other way. That's not right. 
That's not our job. I don't have all the answers, but I do know that it 
makes absolutely no sense to quietly endure the status quo.

Ending a war is not easy. It requires courage and it demands action. 
What this amendment requests is action, a strong signal to the 
administration that we want a plan. It also signals the Congress will 
no longer just sit back and hope for the best.

To those who say that asking the Afghan Government to stand up and 
take responsibility is somehow a bad idea, I would remind them that 
when we signaled to Iraq that we had a withdrawal plan, officials there 
actually began to act like a real government.

Ensuring that the President gives us a plan by next April so we can 
figure out by July what to do with the money slated for the war is not 
too much to ask. We require, we deserve, and we should demand the 
information we need to do our jobs.

Let me just close with this: There is a small sliver of America that 
is directly impacted by this war in Iraq, and those are the people who 
are fighting the war and who have family members who are fighting the 
war. The rest of us are asked to do nothing, absolutely nothing. We are 
not even asked to pay for it, hundreds of billions of dollars in 
borrowed money. Well, the least we could do for these brave men and 
women whom we have put in harm's way is debate this issue to make sure 
we're getting it right, to make sure we're not sending these people on 
a mission that commits itself to a war with no end. That is what we're 
asking for here today, a clearly defined mission. I ask all of you, 
every one of us here, to reengage in this policy.

This issue has been on the back burner for too long. We're at war. 
Our constituents are dying. Each and every day we read about more 
people who are killed in Afghanistan. We have an obligation to do 
better. This policy is deeply flawed. We need a way out, and I ask all 
of you today to vote for the McGovern-Obey-Jones amendment.

I yield back the balance of my time.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
