---
---

# GREAT AMERICANS
## `e157e67578b04b3af20a1fcce3dbfb47`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Thanks for your comments. I thank, again, the 
gentleman from California as I reclaim the balance of my time.

I think that my transition, as I watch the former chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee walk from the floor, I take this over to the 
subject matter of Iraq and Afghanistan, Mr. Speaker. It's been a little 
while since we've had intense discussions on that here on the floor.

I would point out, as a matter of refreshment to those who haven't 
been so focused on our situation, we are a country at war. And we were 
attacked on September 11, 2001 and we lost 3,000 Americans in those 
three locations where we were attacked.

The President then launched an offensive in Afghanistan, drove the 
Taliban out of Afghanistan, and people on that land voted for the first 
time in the history of man. Ever since Adam and Eve there hadn't been 
people go to the polls in Afghanistan. That happened fairly quickly; I 
believe it was about a little more than 1 year from the time that we 
went in.

And in Iraq, where Saddam Hussein was violating, let me say, the 
United Nations Resolution 1441--and many others--the decision was made, 
based upon global intelligence, to go in and remove that tyrant who was 
killing his own people on a regular basis. He had started a war against 
Iran, where there were more than 1 million killed. And he had used 
weapons of mass destruction to destroy thousands of his own country 
men, women and children.

I have made a number of trips into Iraq. I sat with the chief justice 
who was on the panel that was lined up to try Saddam. And I asked the 
chief justice and the other justices, what is the penalty that Saddam 
is looking at? Now, he was in jail, and no one knew whether he was 
going to face the death penalty. And one of the other junior judges 
tried to explain to me, and he said that the penalty that Saddam is 
facing, well, we have a series of penalties; we have prison terms, we 
have life without parole--well, actually, he said we have the death 
penalty, then we have life in prison, and then we have other shorter 
terms, and it goes on down just like it does in the United States.

And as I watched the chief justice listen to the more junior justice 
explain that to me--which didn't explain a lot, actually--the chief 
justice, sitting there with a big white mustache, was tapping his 
pencil on the table and he wanted to be recognized. And I turned


to him for clarification and he said, Saddam is charged with crimes 
against humanity. Under Iraqi law, there is only one penalty, and 
that's death. And that's, ladies and gentlemen, when the world found 
out that Saddam was actually facing a death penalty. And about a year 
later then he did meet the end of his rope.

And that was a dramatic time in the history of Iraq. It took the fear 
away from the Iraqis. They were never sure whether he was going to 
emerge, whether he would be found not guilty and released onto the 
streets. They were never sure if he would light up again or reconfigure 
his Baathist political machine, reestablish his force of tyranny across 
the country, take over the control of the people and terrorize the 
Shias, and control the oil again and use that country for his own evil 
purposes. They knew that Uday and Qusay were dead, but they didn't know 
that Saddam would not come back until they knew he was dead as well. 
That changed the dynamics in Iraq. And thousands, in fact, millions of 
Iraqis are grateful for the sacrifice that's been made by coalition 
troops, American troops and American taxpayers, who have given up a 
fair amount of treasure to match a significantly large loss of blood 
and humanity in that country.

But what do we have today and where are we today and how did we get 
here? Well, in this Congress, this 110th Congress, Mr. Speaker, when 
Nancy Pelosi took the gavel--I will not forget that moment in time--and 
they began, on that side of the aisle, to bring resolutions to the 
floor in an attempt to unfund the war in Iraq. A whole series of pieces 
of legislation came raining down in this 110th Congress, directed to 
the floor, approved to coming to the floor by Speaker Pelosi, forty 
resolutions to undermine our military effort in Iraq. Forty different 
resolutions on the floor of this Congress calling for votes, trying to 
divide us, trying to see where they could find a way where they could 
squeeze off the resources to our military and ensure defeat, which is 
what it surely would have done. But we stood up, and we put the 
pressure back on the other side. And enough Democrats voted with 
Republicans to save this agenda that so many have sacrificed their 
lives and their blood for.

When I talk to the soldiers that serve there, and the airmen and the 
Marines and the Navy personnel, and when I talk to the parents who have 
lost a son or a daughter, they say, You can't pull us out of this 
fight. Don't do this to us, please. We're all volunteers. We're all 
volunteers here to carry out this mission. We want to take this fight 
away from our children and our grandchildren. We want it done in our 
time.


They put their lives on the line and they set aside years of their 
lives, many of them multiple deployments to go over there, 100 percent 
of them volunteers. Not just for the military. They didn't just sign 
up, they knew when they signed up or when they re-upped that the odds 
were good that they would be deployed into the theater of either Iraq 
or Afghanistan.

And so they're all volunteers, Mr. Speaker. And they volunteer 
because they love this country, they understand our history, and they 
understand that we need to direct its destiny, not people that live in 
foreign countries, not the people that hate America, but the people 
that love America are the ones that protect our destiny. They're in 
uniform, they're in places like Iraq and Afghanistan, they're standing 
up and defending our freedom, and we need to stand with them.

And so I'm troubled, Mr. Speaker, when I pick up an op-ed, and it was 
written by the junior Senator from Illinois, the junior Senator who 
served 147 days in the United States Senate, his only Federal office 
exposure, until he decided that he wanted to be the President of the 
United States. That junior Senator has been to Iraq one time, one time 
almost 900 days ago, but for more than 900 days he said, We've got to 
get out of Iraq, we've got to get out now, we've got to pull our troops 
immediately out of Iraq. And the only conditions are leave a rear guard 
there to guard their backs so they don't get shot in the back on their 
way out of Iraq. That's what I heard. I heard it not exactly in those 
words, but I heard that theme over and over again. And it was exactly 
the words ''immediately pull our troops out of Iraq.'' That's what the 
junior Senator from Illinois said. That's the position he holds today.

He does understand that to pull 142,000 troops out of Iraq takes a 
little bit of time. He has said in his op-ed that's printed July 14 in 
the New York Times that he would consult with commanders on the ground 
and the Iraqi Government to ensure that our troops were redeployed 
safely and our interests protected. Well, that's the only consultation 
he's willing to accept is if somebody else will plan the logistics of 
the retreat.

And I would remind the body that victory in a war is defined by who's 
standing on the ground that was fought over when the war is over. It's 
like a street fight; whoever is standing there on the corner won the 
fight, and the one whose buddies drug him off or walked or ran away is 
the one that lost. We all know that. You can't run away from a fight 
and declare victory. It doesn't work in a street fight, it doesn't work 
in a battle, and it doesn't work in a war. And you can say what you 
want to about history, but they're going to write history according to 
the facts; and the facts will be who was standing in Iraq at the end of 
the war, not who declared defeat and pulled troops out.

But it is not just tantamount to a declaration of defeat to pull 
troops out and run away from an enemy, it is a declaration of defeat 
itself by any measure, by any judgment of history. I would just remind, 
again, Mr. Speaker, that we pulled out of Vietnam, ''peace with 
honor,'' I remember, ''peace with honor.'' And I remember this Congress 
voting to shut off all dollars to go to the South Vietnamese where they 
were, by then, trained to defend themselves. And we had made a sacred 
oath to the South Vietnamese people that we would provide for them all 
of the military equipment, all the munitions, and all of the air cover 
that they would need and use to defend themselves. And they were 
trained and equipped and they had their military squared away to do 
that. And this Congress passed legislation on an appropriations bill 
that said, ''These monies in this appropriations bill and any monies 
heretofore appropriated shall be prohibited from being spent to defend 
any military mission in Vietnam, on the ground of Vietnam, in the skies 
over Vietnam, in the seas around Vietnam''--North or South Vietnam it 
actually said--''or in the skies or land around Laos and Cambodia, 
neighboring counties.'' They covered it pretty good.

Any money that was in the pipeline was prohibited from being spent to 
allow the South Vietnamese people to defend themselves. And any money 
in the Department of Defense appropriations bill would be prohibited 
from being used to let the South Vietnamese people defend themselves 
with those resources.

We failed the South Vietnamese people. We gave them a solemn promise 
and a solemn oath, and we pulled out on them. And this country 
remembers people hanging on to the struts of helicopters as they lifted 
off of the U.S. Embassy in Saigon, a disgraceful image in the minds not 
just of patriotic Americans who saw that, sadly, but an image in the 
minds of people like al Qaeda who are inspired now because we didn't 
stick it out then.

And I read General Giap's book, the general who is credited with 
being the mastermind that set up the strategy that historians will 
describe as the defeat of the United States in South Vietnam. I would 
argue that we were not defeated there, but we were defeated here on the 
floor of this Congress. That's the fact of it, Mr. Speaker.

And on page eight of General Giap's book, he writes that he got his 
first inspiration that they could defeat the United States because we 
were willing to settle for a negotiated settlement in Korea. Because we 
didn't press forward for a complete 100 percent total victory over 
North Korea, he got the sense that we didn't have the stomach to finish 
a war that we were in. And so he set about with a strategy of the war 
of attrition, and they lost over 100,000 of their troops, killed in the 
Tet Offensive in 1968. And Walter Cronkite turned that into a defeat 
for the United States rather than a victory for our troops that so 
gloriously defended their positions and their compounds and the


South Vietnamese people. Over 100,000 North Vietnamese troops killed in 
the Tet Offensive, and Walter Cronkite interpreted that as a defeat for 
the United States because he didn't know why there were sappers inside 
the wall but not inside the U.S. Embassy in Saigon.

That's how history turned. History turned because it was redefined by 
liberal media people, and has since then been redefined by historians. 
And it's defined this way in the minds of Osama bin Ladin, General 
Giap, and also people like Muqtada al Sadr. And as I was actually in 
Kuwait, June 11, 2004, watching al Jazeera TV, Muqtada al Sadr came on 
and he said--and I was watching the closed caption going underneath the 
screen, he was speaking, I presume, in Arabic, the closed caption 
said--and I heard the voice of Muqtada al Sadr, he said, ''If we keep 
attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq, the same way they left 
Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left 
Mogadishu.''

The inspiration for our enemies doesn't come from some ideology that 
causes them to rise up and move in a fashion that--they're not seeking 
a better world or a better life, it's hatred for us. And they think 
they can defeat us because they believe we're soft and we lack resolve. 
And they go back and keep score of our history and they say, well, they 
pulled out of Vietnam, they pulled out of Lebanon, they pulled out of 
Mogadishu, surely they'll pull out of Iraq. Well, they're dealing with 
a different Commander in Chief today than who was in charge in any of 
those circumstances. This time it's George W. Bush who is sticking this 
out. And I'm sticking it out with him, Mr. Speaker, because he's right. 
The central battle in this global war on terror is now and has been for 
a long time Iraq, Iraq, Iraq.



That's changing. It's transitioning over to Afghanistan, perhaps 
Pakistan, but today it's Iraq, Iraq, Iraq. And we have everything but a 
sewed-up victory there.

When I look at the statistics that come out of Iraq, it tells me 
this: that civilian violence is off. It's down by about 80 percent from 
its peaks. Our military casualties are down dramatically as well. There 
has been 1 week where the accidental deaths in Iraq, 1 by my record so 
far, where the accidental deaths in Iraq were greater than the combat 
deaths in Iraq. That means you're getting down to one or two or three 
for the week. The casualties in Afghanistan have been for the last 4 to 
6 weeks roughly equal to or greater than they are in Iraq.

Now, I would ask, Mr. Speaker, that you consider this: that we have 
about 140,000 to 142,000 troops in Iraq; we have about 26,000 troops in 
Afghanistan. So the numbers work out to be that there are about 5.38 
times more troops in Iraq than there are in Afghanistan. And if the 
casualties are roughly equivalent in each of the two countries, the 
casualty rate in Afghanistan is 5.38 times greater than the casualty 
rate in Iraq. That is a dramatic sea change, Mr. Speaker, in the 
numbers of casualties within the two countries. And it isn't just 
because the casualties have gone up in Afghanistan, which they have, 
but it's because they have gone down dramatically in Iraq.

And the Department of Defense issued a couple of weeks ago sectarian 
attack statistics. Now, if you remember, we had people like the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania, who professes to be an expert on these 
issues, the one who said pull the troops out now, let's cut and run out 
of there and move them back to their horizon, who said that we had a 
civil war in Iraq and we had sectarian violence in Iraq and the place 
was melting down in shambles and chaos and the war could not be won. It 
was already lost. That from a retired Marine, that we already lost. 
Well, the sectarian violence, the violence that was described as 
uncontrollable, unmanageable, and going to get worse, the last report 
that came from the Department of Defense was sectarian violence, Shias 
killing Sunnis, Sunnis killing Shias for the sake that they are 
opposite sects, sectarian violence: zero. No recorded cases of attacks 
for sectarian reasons. Civilian violence off at least 80 percent, our 
casualties down to a level below where they are in Afghanistan for the 
last couple of weeks at least and spanning over the last 6 weeks 
equivalent roughly to Afghanistan. But the casualty rates in 
Afghanistan are 5.38 times higher than they are in Iraq.

Now, why is anybody unsatisfied with this? When I kept asking the 
question: Describe for me, define for me a victory in Iraq. How do you 
define that victory in Iraq? These folks over here are pretty cagy, Mr. 
Speaker, because they're not going to define a victory in Iraq. They 
know that we can achieve that. So they set up these benchmarks, 18 
benchmarks for the Iraqis to reach, and if they didn't meet the 
benchmarks, then they were going to pull the plug on the funding and 
shut off the support for the troops and bring them all home. That was 
the strategy. And that was the strategy when General Petraeus came here 
to Congress--I think it was the 12th or 15th of September last year--
and he gave a report on the situation in Iraq. And the junior Senator 
from New York said, ''It would require the willful suspension of 
disbelief to believe you, General Petraeus.'' ''The willful suspension 
of disbelief.''

Well, look where we are today, Mr. Speaker? Who was telling the truth 
then? Was it the skeptic that came forward and denied the facts that 
were in front of her? Was it the general that laid out objectively the 
circumstances, with proper cautions, with proper caveats, but still 
with the proper strategy? And he sat down at Leavenworth and spent 
months writing the manual, the counterinsurgency manual. And I have 
that manual, and I have pored through it. I haven't read every word of 
it, but I have read a lot of the pieces in it. And that strategy was 
put together, as I sense it, as I read it, from the experience that 
General Petraeus had in Iraq and other experiences around other 
locations where he had been deployed, plus a lot of reading, a lot of 
experience, a lot of activity with other officers.

I remember going to Iraq for the first time in 2003, and I talked to 
the officers. They didn't know very much about the culture in the 
Middle East, and they didn't have a lot of books that they'd read about 
it. And I came home and started to read. I went back to Iraq, and I saw 
the bookshelves in their offices in places like Baghdad and Fallujah 
with more books on the Arabic culture, on the Muslim religion, on ways 
to understand the culture and the religion and the military tactics. We 
saw our officers start to get up to speed and learn, and they got up to 
speed and learned. And no one has learned that I can tell any more or 
any faster than General Petraeus.

And when I read this op-ed in the New York Times, written by the 
junior Senator from Illinois, who spent 147 days in the Senate and 
decided he should be the leader of the free world, he writes a few 
things in here that are quite disturbing. I will just take this kind of 
from the top. This is his op-ed that says what he is going to learn 
when he goes to Iraq. Now, this is a classic case of really getting the 
sequence of things wrong.

Now, I'm a cynical person sometimes. That's what it takes to maintain 
sanity in this Congress, Mr. Speaker, and I would say that I could name 
more than one individual in this Congress that decided that they were 
getting enough pressure from their constituents that they wanted to 
flip and change their position on the war on terror and particularly 
the central battlefield of that, which is Iraq. And I can name more 
than one individual that I believe decided they wanted to change their 
position, turn against the war, and so they set up a trip to go to Iraq 
so that they could learn what was going on over there, having already 
made up their mind that they were going to flip and turn against it. I 
could name more than one person. I choose not to do that, but I can do 
that. And they aren't all Democrats either, Mr. Speaker. That is a 
cynical thing to do. It's a cynical thing to do to come to a conclusion 
without the facts and then set up a trip so that you can validate the 
conclusion that you've already come to and come back and say, ''Well, 
here's what I've learned. I've learned that we've got to pull out and 
pull out now, and since I have been there, I really am convinced of 
that.'' That has happened in this Congress multiple times actually from 
both sides of the aisle.



Well, Senator Obama takes it way another level. He goes to way 
another level, and he decides, I'm going to go to Iraq for the first 
time in 900 days. For more than 900 days, he has said we're going to 
pull the troops immediately out of there. And he's already decided what 
he's going to find out when he gets there. That's not exclusive new. I 
said I can name some people who have done that, and I think it's 
cynical and it's wrong. And remember when he said ''the audacity of 
hope''? Now, that's kind of an oxymoron. Hope is not in an active 
sense. Wishful thinking is what hope is. ''The audacity of hope.'' 
Well, what about the audacity of declaring to the world what he's going 
to learn when he gets there in a couple of weeks and putting it in an 
op-ed in the New York Times and telling us, well, I will go there and I 
am going to learn what's there, and then here's what I am going to do 
when I come back after I learn what it is I don't know. He's going to 
pull the troops out immediately. And he writes in his op-ed, dated the 
14th of July: ''But the same factors that led me to oppose the surge 
still hold true.''

How does he know that, Mr. Speaker? How can he know that the same 
factors that led him to oppose the surge, the same factors presumably 
that led him to oppose our operations in Iraq, still hold true? What 
factors? What factors has he verified today that he thinks are going to 
be confirmed when he gets there? And if he already has his mind made 
up, why waste the jet fuel? Why put those global warming greenhouse 
gasses up in the atmosphere and fly over to Iraq if you already know 
what you think? What is going to be validated by his presence there 
when he already invalidates his own objective judgment by writing the 
op-ed that tells the world what it is that he wants us to know that he 
has concluded after he actually goes there but tells us before?

And he says of the Iraqis that the ''leaders have failed to invest 
tens of billions of dollars in oil revenues in rebuilding their own 
country.''

Not so. They are investing now tens of billions of dollars. I know 
that they were in a situation where they had about $60 billion in 
revenue and they were working furiously to get it so that they could 
get it down and out to the people. And we are getting that revenue out 
to the people. I met with the mayor of Ramadi some months ago. He 
sounded like, let's say, the mayor of Altoona: ''I need more resources. 
I can't quite get the bureaucrats out of the way. I've got to build a 
sewer. We need a water plant. We have got to fix some streets.'' That's 
what it sounded like to me. And those are the streets that al Qaeda 
owned them less than a year before, and we went shopping in downtown 
Ramadi. It was the center of death for a long time there.

So the Iraqis are investing tens of billions of dollars. But if they 
weren't, is the punishment for not taking your tens of billions of 
dollars and investing it, is the punishment turning your back over to 
al Qaeda? What kind of a foreign policy is that?

And then we go on and he says: ''They have not reached the political 
accommodation that was the stated purpose of the surge.'' Well, what is 
that political accommodation? He does not say. And he doesn't say 
because he can move that ball of string in front of the kitten again. 
He can play Lucy with Charlie Brown and the football in the fall, set 
the ball, and when Charlie comes along, the Iraqis, to make their 
political accommodations and they get ready like Charlie Brown to kick 
the football, then Lucy, the junior Senator from Illinois, can say, 
''Whoops. Nope, that wasn't the target. That was a different political 
accommodation. I'll tell you what it is if you hit it.'' Well, you're 
not going to hit it with this man. He already has his mind made up. No 
amount of accomplishments, no amount of statistics, no amount of real 
data on the ground, no amount of sacrifice is going to change his mind 
because politically he has concluded that it strengthens his hand to, 
let me say, invalidate the sacrifice of thousands and thousands of 
Americans who have either given their lives; their limbs; parts of 
their bodies; their health, mental and physical; their treasure; and 
years out of their lives. To take that fight from us, to take that 
fight from our children and grandchildren would all be invalidated 
because it would strengthen his hand politically. That's the calculus.

So it says here, and again I am reading from this New York Times op-
ed dated July 14 by the junior Senator from Illinois, 147 days in the 
Senate and decided he wanted to be President--it says here in his op-
ed: ''The good news is that Iraq's leaders want to take responsibility 
for their country by negotiating a timetable for the removal of 
American troops.''

Well, that's an opinion on an opinion. And my opinion on that opinion 
is, Mr. Speaker, that the Iraqis are starting to feel their oats a 
little bit. Yes, we have made a lot of progress, and a very good sign 
of the progress is that at least politically Prime Minister Maliki 
needs to say, ''I want to negotiate a timetable.'' That tells me that 
the Iraqis are building in their confidence, and that's good news.

Two other things that have happened in the last 1/1/2/ years that 
didn't exist before is the Iraqi people understand we are not there for 
their oil and they understand we are not there to occupy, and that has 
helped dramatically in helping the Iraqis to make progress moving 
forward. But ''the good news is that Iraq's leaders want to take 
responsibility for their country by negotiating a timetable for the 
removal of American troops,'' he could have chosen his words a little 
better. That sets a little wrong with me, that word ''removal.'' But 
what that says is we are succeeding in Iraq. And a year ago, 2 years 
ago, 3 years ago, 4 years ago, the answer was did all the Iraqis want 
us to leave? Yes. All of the Iraqis wanted us to leave, just not 
anytime soon. They wanted to make sure that their country was stable. 
We have been training troops there for a long time, Mr. Speaker, and I 
don't know that the junior Senator knows that.

But in any case, the timetable for American troops coming home needs 
to be set upon the security levels in Iraq, not some arbitrary date. 
But the dates that are being proposed by the Iraqi leadership are well 
beyond the date that is in this op-ed that's written by the junior 
Senator from Illinois. So they are not on the same page. Maybe he 
doesn't know that because he hasn't gone there for 900 days. And when 
he sits down and talks to them, and I hope he does, is he going to come 
back and correct this? I don't think so because he already has his mind 
up. He has given us a report from Iraq, sent to us a couple weeks 
before he goes to Iraq. That's kind of being a little bit trigger happy 
with your op-ed, I would say.



Now here is another piece that I underlined. Obama says, ''Only by 
redeploying our troops can we press the Iraqis to reach comprehensive 
political accommodation and achieve a successful transition to Iraqis' 
taking responsibility for the security and stability of their country. 
Instead of seizing the moment and encouraging Iraqis to step up, the 
Bush administration and Senator McCain are refusing to embrace this 
transition.''

Really? If he had gone to Iraq like I have and dozens and dozens of 
Members of Congress have and thousands upon thousands of Americans in 
uniform have, he might have been exposed to some of the things I have 
seen. For example, October 2003, Mosul, Iraq, General Petraeus 
commanding the 101st Airborne showed us, and this would be about 11:30 
at night, he brought Iraqi troops into formation that had been 
training. And those Iraqi troops stood at attention. And we reviewed 
the Iraqi trainee troops October 2003. May, 2003, they had elections in 
Mosul. Liberation took place about the 22nd and 23rd in that area of 
March 2003. Just a little over a month later, there were elections in 
Mosul, Iraq, where they elected a governor, a vice governor and other 
officers there. That was all under the direction of General Petraeus.

And so if you go there, Mr. Speaker, and you witness those things, 
you understand the reality on the ground is significantly different 
than the reality imagined by the gentleman who penned this op-ed. And I 
would continue, by the way, I repeat the statement where he says, the 
Bush administration and Senator McCain are refusing to embrace this 
transition to Iraqi security forces providing the security in Iraq. 
They are the people that invented it, Mr. Speaker. It has been the 
President and his appointed officers who have


made sure that we had the resources to train Iraqi troops and to get 
Iraqi troops stood up so our troops could stand down. Do you remember 
that phrase? When the Iraqi troops stand up, we can stand down. That 
statement came out over and over again.

And I have met with Iraqi troops across that country over and over 
again. And sometimes they train pretty good. And sometimes they didn't 
perform so well. But today, we know they fight well for Prime Minister 
Maliki. And because of that, the day is coming where we can transition. 
And we've drawn the surge volume of the troops down now, and we're back 
to the more stable number of 100,000 to 142,000 troops. We think those 
numbers will be diminished some more throughout the summer.

But let it be a strategic decision, not a political decision. 
Politicians don't do a good job of fighting wars. I've described what 
we did on the floor of this Congress to pull the rug out from 
underneath the South Vietnamese. I just didn't tell you about the 2 or 
3 million who died in the aftermath. That blood is on the hands of the 
people who didn't keep their promise to the South Vietnamese. And I 
don't want the blood on our hands for not following through on our 
mission that we committed ourselves to. Once you engage, you're with 
the troops 100 percent. You're with the mission 100 percent. You cannot 
separate the troops from their mission. And it doesn't work to say, I'm 
for the troops but I oppose their mission. It doesn't work to say, I 
celebrate our brave troops, but I brought a resolution to the floor, an 
amendment to try to cut the funding for them. I tried to cut their 
food, their fuel, their bullet-proof vests, M-4s and their Humvees. 
That is not support. And they need moral support as well as financial 
support, Mr. Speaker.

And under the next paragraph in his op-ed in the New York Times it 
says, ''It is a strategy for staying that runs contrary to the will of 
the Iraqi people.'' Really? How would he know what the will of the 
Iraqi people is? It helps to go there and find out. You can get 
somebody in this country to tell you anything you want to hear. And you 
can repeat it over and over again. When you go there and you see the 
faces of the Iraqi people and you move among their troops and among 
their civilians, you get an entirely different idea. You get an idea of 
gratitude. I have gotten written letters from them where they have 
profoundly thanked us for the sacrifice of our American soldiers, 
sailors, airmen and marines. We've given them a lot. We've given them 
our treasure. And we've given them our sons and daughters. And they're 
willing to step up to this freedom. We cannot squander it.


This is another comment made by Obama in this op-ed to the New York 
Times. It says, ''It is a strategy for staying that runs contrary to 
the will of the Iraqi people.'' And moving forward it says, ''That is 
why, on my first day in office, on my first day in office, I would give 
the military a new mission: Ending this war.'' That is the definitive 
statement made by the junior Senator from Illinois: ''On my first day 
in office, I would give the military a new mission: Ending this war.''

Regardless of the circumstances on the ground, Mr. Speaker, 
regardless of how badly we might need to have troops there to stabilize 
the Iraqi defense forces, regardless of the threat, regardless of the 
threat across the Straits of Hormuz, Iran and their nuclear efforts and 
Ahmadinejad's lunatic approach to the world, denying the holocaust, 
declaring that he wants to annihilate Israel and annihilate the United 
States, and have him sitting there on one side of the Straits of Hormuz 
where 42.6 percent of the world's oil supply comes through and take our 
troops and skedaddle out of Iraq, and hand southern Iraq over to the 
influence of the Iranians perhaps? Where 70 to 80 percent of the Iraqi 
oil is? And again, right on the other side of the Straits of Hormuz, on 
both sides of the Straits is where most of the oil is in Iran, on the 
east side of the Straits of Hormuz and Iraq on the west side of the 
Straits of Hormuz, in there is a mother lode of oil. Those oil fields 
are developed, that oil is coming out of there, and it's coming down 
the Straits now. And if Iran follows through on their threat to close 
the Straits of Hormuz, they have a stranglehold on the oil supply for 
the world. Not only do they have that, but they have a stranglehold on 
the valve that turns the economy off or on if they choose to do so. And 
they have threatened to close the Straits. And we have in the past put 
our Navy in there to keep the Straits open.

That, Mr. Speaker, is the time for the Speaker, Nancy Pelosi from San 
Francisco, to declare that we should open up our Strategic Petroleum 
Reserves, dump that oil on the market where we have, I understand, 
about 2 months of supply in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and use 
that to drive the price down? What do we do when those reserves are 
empty and the oil production in the world hasn't gone up, and we 
haven't developed our energy supplies in the United States? What do we 
do then? What do we do if Ahmadinejad then closes the Straits of Hormuz 
after our Strategic Petroleum Reserve is empty and we have taken a dime 
or so off the gas price in the United States, taken some pressure off 
the world demand for oil because we wouldn't be quite so much in the 
market which would give the Chinese a better deal on oil, that would be 
the strategy that we're working with?

Our national security is at risk. The destiny of this Nation is at 
risk. And if we pull out of Iraq, if we elect an Obama for President, 
and he follows through on this thing that he is about to learn in a 
couple of weeks when he goes to Iraq and he has already concluded and 
he writes in the op-ed, I'm going to editorialize this part, and I will 
be straight about that, he writes in the op-ed, I'm going to Iraq, and 
I'm going to learn all this, and I'm going to come back, and these are 
the decisions I have already made, and I'm going to remake them when I 
come back. ''That is why on my first day in office, I would give the 
military a new mission: Ending this war.'' That means get out of Iraq. 
Pull out immediately. He said it over and over again, leave that blood 
and treasure there and leave the disgrace of pulling out there, and let 
the world declare it to be a defeat for the United States. Let al Qaeda 
use it as a recruiting tool, a recruiting tool for them to pick up 
terrorists around the world. That is what would happen, Mr. Speaker, if 
we pull out.

And I do think we're close to where the Iraqis can stand on their own 
and it is far more stable. But to just simply betray the judgment of 
General Petraeus before setting foot on the ground that has been 
liberated by the surge and the people who have given their lives, their 
blood and their treasure is a disgrace to do. And so I urge this body 
to urge some of their Presidential candidate to shift his position.

In the meantime, I intend to stand with a man who is an authentic 
American hero, a man who has served America for every day of his adult 
life, a man who sat in the Hanoi Hilton for at least 5/1/2/ years, that 
served there with our own great Sam Johnson in this Congress, served 
with the most decorated living American hero who happens to be from 
Sioux City, Iowa, and a man whom I call a friend, Colonel Bud Day, a 
Medal of Honor and 69 other medals on down. Those men stand up with 
John McCain for his service. And they know that that he has character. 
It can't be challenged. The background of John McCain is a solid 
background all the way through. And the background that we have, that 
we follow for the junior Senator for Illinois, we're having trouble 
finding the place that would give us encouragement that he would have 
the tools necessary to lead the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I want somebody that stands up for our freedom. I want 
somebody who has got an attitude of an east Texan serving us in the 
United States, in the White House. I want somebody with an attitude 
like President Bush has. Sometimes you have to be a lit bit ornery, a 
little cussed, a little belligerent and a little bit of an enigma. And 
that will keep our enemies off of our back and keep them guessing a 
little bit. But they need to know. Our enemies need to know we're 
committed to victory. And we're going to stick with victory. And we're 
not going to let up, that Iraq cannot be our Alamo. And it will not if 
we send a Commander in Chief that will stand for victory. I would 
conclude, Mr. Speaker, that America has never elected a President who 
was for retreat at a time of war. We will not do it again in 2008.



I yield back the balance of my time.
