# MONTANA'S 819TH RED HORSE SQUADRON
## `e1679faab883b9b5be5b92a5adc78db2`
`Mr. TESTER — 11 September 2007`

---


Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I know that over the last 6 years every 
Senator has had to send some of their sons and daughters in their State 
off to war, but today is the first time as a Member of this body I have 
had to see so many members of a squadron in my State deployed. So it is 
with great pride that I rise to honor the 400 air men and women of the 
Air Force's 819th RED HORSE Squadron. About one-half of this squadron 
is deploying today for training in Wisconsin before going to Iraq later 
this year.

Over the last decade, Malmstrom Air Force Base in Great Falls, MT, 
has been the home of the 819th RED HORSE Squadron. For the uninitiated, 
RED HORSE stands for rapid engineer deployable heavy operation repair 
squadron engineer. Basically, these are the men and women who rebuild 
Air Force facilities overseas, such as runways. They also have spent 
considerable time in Iraq rebuilding schools and homes. These are men 
and women who do some truly wonderful work.

In a previous deployment to Iraq in 2005, the squadron was involved 
in 130 construction projects on 12 different bases in Iraq. The 819th 
has served in Afghanistan and Qatar. In every place they have taken on 
complicated engineering projects for the U.S. Government but have also 
done outstanding work with locals to rehabilitate housing and provide 
residents with everything from coloring books for kids to new washing 
machines.

It is a combination of accomplishment, strength, and generosity that 
represents the best of our Nation.

This afternoon, as the men and women of the 819th begin to train for


the mission that will send them to Iraq, they leave behind spouses, 
children, and other family members. We know that piano recitals and 
football games will be missed this fall. There will be an empty chair 
at too many holiday meals.

The 819th is an Active Associate unit, meaning that it is compromised 
of both Active-Duty airmen and Air National Guardsmen. For the citizen 
soldiers of our Air Guard, these deployments can be especially 
difficult, and I hope all Montanans will keep these airmen and their 
families in their thoughts and prayers.

And when they return home, we have a moral responsibility to care for 
the folks who have worn the uniform of our country. Whether they return 
to Active Duty or reenter civilian life, the Federal Government must 
support them. Congress has taken numerous steps this year to provide 
more resources for the VA and to improve the quality of life for our 
troops. I hope we will continue to make progress in these areas so that 
when the 819th comes home we are able to welcome these airmen back home 
with our deeds and not just our words.
