---
---

# DWELL TIME
## `e1705a58b2e1ca98825286df5e87a005`
`Mr. DORGAN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, I have watched and listened to the 
debate today on the floor of the Senate. It is a debate in many ways 
that is similar to debates we have had on previous occasions, and I 
know there are people on all sides who feel passionately about these 
issues. I respect differences of opinion. I respect those who come to 
the floor and say: Here is how I see it, here is what I believe, and 
here is what I think we should do.

This is a very important issue. There is so much at stake for our 
country with respect to this issue of the war in Iraq. It casts a 
shadow on virtually everything else we consider and do in public policy 
and our relationships around the world. It is a situation I think that 
requires us to do the best we can to develop public policy that finds a 
way to extract ourselves from what has largely become a civil war with 
sectarian violence in the country of Iraq, and take the fight to the 
terrorists.

I wish to raise a few points about fighting terrorism, even as I come 
to the floor to support the amendment offered by Senator Webb. I think 
it is an amendment that has great merit and an amendment that will be 
supportive of the best interests of this country in pursuing the war 
against terror.

Let me say there have been a series of reports--an almost dizzying 
number of reports and speeches and testimony over the last several 
weeks--about the status of the war in Iraq and the performance of the 
Iraqi Government. There are claims and counterclaims; I expect there is 
spinning on all sides of these issues. Much of it has been about 
whether the U.S. military surge of 30,000 troops since January 2007 has 
worked and about the benchmarks--about whether the Iraqi Government has 
been willing to or has made progress in meeting benchmarks it has 
promised to meet to do its job, to justify U.S. troops fighting and 
dying in their country. Through all of that, it seems to me there are 
three facts that are clear. First, only political reconciliation among 
the Shiites, the Sunnis, and the Kurds will stop the civil war that 
rages in Iraq. Only political reconciliation will ultimately solve this 
problem.


Second, the Iraqi Government has made very little progress--perhaps 
some in several areas but in the main very little progress toward the 
needed reconciliation.

Third, terrorism remains the No. 1 threat to the United States. The 
July National Intelligence Estimate makes the case. This is not coming 
from me; this comes from a July 2007 National Intelligence Estimate. 
The unclassified portion says:




 Al-Qaida is and will remain the most serious terrorist 


 threat to the homeland. We assess that the group has 


 protected or regenerated key elements of its homeland attack 


 capability, including: A safe haven in the




 Pakistan federally administered tribal areas, operational 


 lieutenants, and its top leadership.


Let me say again that it says that ''al-Qaida is and will remain the 
most serious terrorist threat to the homeland.'' We know that as of 
last week, Osama bin Laden, the leader of al-Qaida, al-Zawahiri, and 
others who lead al-Qaida are still speaking to us through videos and 
through voice tapes, giving us their version of the world. These are 
people who have boasted about murdering innocent Americans on 9/11, and 
six years later, they remain in what the National Intelligence Estimate 
says is somewhere on this planet that is secure or safe. It is almost 
unbelievable to me that there is a ''safe haven'' anyplace on this 
planet for the people who have boasted of initiating the 9/11 attacks 
against this country, but that is what our National Intelligence 
Estimate says--they are in a safe haven.

There ought not be 1 square inch on planet Earth that is safe for the 
leadership of al-Qaida. How did we come to this point of having a safe 
haven for those very terrorists who initiated the attacks against this 
country and who, as our most recent National Intelligence Estimate 
says, remain the most serious terrorist threat to our country? How have 
we reached that point? What has been happening while we have surged 
troops in Iraq? Well, as I indicated, Osama bin Laden released two 
videos, one on September 7 and one on September 11. He boasted about 
the 19 hijackers who did the killings on September 11 and rambled on 
about the coming downfall of America, as is his custom.

Regardless of what Osama bin Laden has said, our National 
Intelligence Estimate says that al-Qaida is back stronger than ever and 
terrorism remains the No. 1 threat to the U.S. homeland. I think we 
need a set of policies that focuses on fighting terrorists first. 
Frankly, what is happening in Iraq is not the central fight on 
terrorism. It seems to me the central fight on terrorism is to 
eliminate the leadership that represents the greatest threat to our 
country, and they are not in Iraq. That leadership, we are told by the 
National Intelligence Estimate, is in a safe haven in the Pakistan 
federally administered tribal areas.

I don't mean to say that dealing with that would be easy or without 
difficulty. I do mean to say that if this represents the judgment of 
our National Intelligence Estimate, and if we know--and we all do--that 
those who boasted about initiating the 9/11 attacks are there and are 
pledging additional attacks against our homeland, it seems to me that 
should be where we focus our country's priority of action.

We are told, by the way, that the leadership of that terrorist 
organization that is, again, the most serious threat to this country--
we are told they have regenerated.

Here is a September 11 story quoting our intelligence officials. The 
headline is ''Al-Qaida's Return: The Terrorists Have a Sanctuary Once 
Again.'' In the last week or so, we have seen terrorist arrests in 
Denmark and in Germany, and we see that these arrests, particularly in 
Germany, are for terrorists plotting attacks against large U.S. 
military bases. Those attacks against our military base in Europe are 
being plotted by terrorists who have trained in Pakistan, which is the 
very area where the Intelligence Community says Osama bin Laden has 
regenerated his terrorist training camps in the tribal area.

Madam President, this issue of a sanctuary for terrorists to begin 
planning additional attacks against our country, as they are apparently 
now doing, it seems to me ought to claim our attention and ought to 
claim the policy debate about what is the approach this country might 
best use.

My colleague from Virginia comes to the floor with respect to this 
issue of the war in Iraq. What are we doing in the war in Iraq? What 
about the surge and the road ahead? What about the Petraeus report? My 
colleague has made an important argument on the Senate floor about the 
strength of the U.S. military if you don't provide ample opportunity 
for the U.S. military to have sufficient time home from the battlefield 
to rest and regenerate and also sufficient time for additional 
training.

Madam President, the point of the amendment offered by Senator Webb 
is to provide a sufficient opportunity for troops who are on station, 
on duty in a war zone 24 hours a day, to give them time to retrain, 
rest, and refresh. You cannot have a fighting force that doesn't have 
that opportunity. That is what my colleague from Virginia is suggesting 
in his amendment.

My point about this is that as we discuss how to deal with these 
issues in Iraq, we are, on a course at the moment that says our mission 
in Iraq is to go door to door in Baghdad in the middle of sectarian 
violence or a civil war. My point is, while that is going on, while we 
are in the middle of a civil war in Baghdad with our soldiers--and, 
yes, there is some al-Qaida presence there, but that is not the 
majority of what is happening there; it is largely a civil war. While 
we are doing that, here is what we are understanding and knowing. This 
is not a claim, this is what we know: ''Europeans Get Terror Training 
Inside Pakistan.'' We picked them up in Denmark and Germany. We find 
out that the terrorists are being trained in Pakistan. We are told that 
is where the al-Qaida leadership is, reconstituting its base, its 
strength, building new training camps. We picked up the people who are 
threatening to attack the largest military installation owned by the 
United States in Europe.

Should that surprise us? Not if we have been reading the newspaper. 
We don't have to read the intelligence; we can just read the newspaper.

This is a New York Times newspaper story from February 19 of this 
year. This is from our intelligence officials talking about what they 
know:




 Senior leaders of al-Qaida, operating from Pakistan over 


 the past year, have set up a band of training camps in the 


 tribal regions near the Afghan border, according to American 


 intelligence and counterterrorism officials. American 


 officials said there was mounting evidence that Osama bin 


 Laden and his deputy, al-Zawahiri, have been steadily 


 building an operations hub in the mountainous Pakistan tribal 


 area of north Waziristan.


Now we have picked up terrorists who were trained there. We are told 
by the National Intelligence Estimate that the greatest threat to our 
country is from the al-Qaida organization and the leadership of al-
Qaida, who are now planning terrorist attacks against our homeland. 
That is the greatest threat to our country. So what are we doing? We 
are going door to door in Baghdad in the middle of a civil war while 
there is a ''safe haven'' on this Earth, apparently, for the leadership 
of al-Qaida. Is there common sense missing here? Would one not think 
those who boasted of murdering 3,000-plus Americans on 9/11, 2001, that 
they would have long ago been apprehended? President Bush was asked 
about this, and he said, ''I don't think about Osama bin Laden and the 
leadership of al-Qaida.'' I really think we ought to take the fight to 
what the National Intelligence Estimate insists is the greatest threat 
to our country, and I don't believe that is happening.

I support the effort of my colleague from Virginia. I think that 
amendment is one which will give our military the opportunity to 
retrain, rest, and be refreshed and represent the kind of fighting 
force we want and need. All of us are proud of our American soldiers 
who walk in harm's way.

There is a verse about those soldiers and patriots:




 When the night is full of knives and the drums are heard 


 and the lightning is seen, it's the patriots that are always 


 there ready to step forward and fight and die, if necessary, 


 for their country.


We have a lot of patriots who got up this morning and put on body 
armor and are walking in harm's way on behalf of this country. What we 
owe them, it seems to me, as policymakers is our unyielding support for 
whatever they need to finish their job. In addition, we owe them good 
policy that focuses on attacking and destroying and eliminating the 
greatest terrorist threat to this country. And nobody should take it 
from me; take it from the National Intelligence Estimate of July of 
this year. The greatest terrorist threat to our country is Al-Qaida.--I 
will put the chart back up:




 Al-Qaida is and will remain the most serious terrorist 


 threat to the homeland.


The NIE says that they have a safe haven in Pakistan. So that is the 
fight--to eliminate the greatest terrorist threat to our homeland. 
There ought not to be a square inch of safe haven anywhere on this 
planet for that group.

I yield the floor.

