---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `e1714c7122469eb26927e3c3f3b72b66`
`Mr. PENCE — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the amendment and 
also to the underlying bill.

I have great respect for the gentlelady who brings this amendment. 
She said earlier that there is, in her way of thinking, no military 
solution in Afghanistan. But let me say that surrender is a military 
tactic. I just oppose it.

This is a very serious time in the life of our country here at home; 
and it's easy, I suspect, for some Americans to forget that we're a 
Nation at war. But we are.

As I was reminded when I traveled to Afghanistan the day after 
Christmas this last year, at this very hour, we have men and women in 
uniform in harm's way in Afghanistan and Iraq. And we owe them, in this 
moment, the resources they need to complete their mission, get the job 
done, and come home safe. We also owe them the respect of doing that 
without using our soldiers as a vehicle for other domestic spending 
priorities.

Military spending bills should be about military spending, and 
nothing else. And this legislation fails that test.

Before us today is a $75 billion spending bill, but less than half of 
this legislation will be used to support the Defense Department's war 
operations. Less than half. The military funding measure will spend 
almost $5 billion, supposedly, on a temporary bailout for a Federal 
Pell Grant program. This so-called military funding measure will spend 
$50 million on the Port of Guam, and $18 million for emergency 
reforestation, and $15 million for a highway safety study.

This military funding measure will also even spend, as we've heard in 
earlier debate, $10 billion on teacher jobs.

Now, I've been married, as of a month ago, for 25 years to a teacher. 
I support teachers. I believe education is a State and local function.

Anybody else remember that we just spent $53 billion in supposedly 
one-time spending for education in the President's failed stimulus 
bill? And now, on the backs of our soldiers, comes another $10 billion 
that has to be appropriated to save teachers jobs?

We can do better, men and women.

To top it all off, $63 billion of this bill isn't even paid for, just 
more deficits and more debt.

One of the ways the Democrats are saving a little bit of money here 
is by $3 billion in cuts to the Defense Department.

We can do better. Our soldiers deserve better. Let's reject this 
legislation. Let's do right by our soldiers.


Military spending bills should be about military spending, and nothing 
else.