---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `e1849960795320f399a9931a45d8eff9`
`Mr. McCAIN — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Today, the Senate begins consideration of the conference report to 
accompany this year's national defense authorization bill providing our 
soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and their families with the support 
they need and deserve. This is a responsibility I do not take lightly, 
especially during a time of war. It is a responsibility my good friend 
and colleague Senator Levin understands very well. I thank and commend 
Senator Levin for his skill in shepherding this bill through the 
conference process in a bipartisan fashion. I thank Senator Levin for 
his leadership. I thank him for his commitment to the men and women who 
are serving in the military and the long relationship we have enjoyed 
working together as colleagues in that effort.

The conference report largely supports the defense priorities laid 
out by Secretary Gates and authorizes over $550 billion in base program 
funding for the Department of Defense and the national security 
programs of the Department of Energy.

Additionally, the legislation authorizes over $129 billion in 
overseas contingency operations funding for ongoing activities in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, Pakistan, and other regional operations and support of the 
war on terrorism.

The conference report demonstrates our bipartisan support for the men 
and women of the Armed Forces and their families and provides them with 
the pay, benefits, equipment, and training they need and deserve.

The report increases benefits for our wounded warriors and provides 
an across-the-board pay raise for our military.

The report terminates production of the F-22 aircraft, contains no 
funding for additional C-17 cargo aircraft, provides full funding for 
procurement of 30 Joint Strike Fighters, and fully authorizes funding 
to train and equip the Afghan National Army and police forces.

I am disappointed that we are unable to eliminate funding for the 
continued development of the alternative engine for the Joint Strike 
Fighter. As Secretary Gates said, ''This program is unnecessary and 
could disrupt the overall


JSF Program by diverting resources away from efforts needed for the 
continuation of that program.''

During the more than 20 years Senator Levin and I have worked 
together, we have had our share of respectful disagreements, and this 
year is no exception. I strongly disagree with the majority's decision 
to include hate crimes legislation in the national defense 
authorization bill. I have consistently opposed attaching hate crimes 
legislation to the national defense authorization bill in years past. 
This year, I again objected to the inclusion of this nongermane, 
nonrelevant language as an amendment to the defense authorization bill 
when the bill was being considered on the floor of the Senate. Today, I 
remain strongly opposed to its inclusion in the conference report. The 
defense authorization bill is not the appropriate vehicle for 
consideration of hate crimes legislation. It is not germane to the work 
of the Armed Services Committee. The stand-alone legislation, S. 909, 
has not even been considered by the Senate Judiciary Committee, where 
it could have been debated, modified, improved, and brought to the 
floor of the Senate. What we are doing here is an abuse of the Senate 
process.

I also object to the language itself because it would create a new 
Federal crime for willfully causing bodily injury to any person due to 
the actual or perceived race, national origin, religion, or gender 
identity, sexual orientation, or disability of any person.

I do not believe an expansion of the Federal criminal code is 
necessary to cover a certain class of citizens from ''perceived 
injustices.''

Let me tell you one of the biggest problems I have here. We have now 
seen a virtual disappearance of authorization bills for various 
functions of government from Senate consideration. We have done that 
because extraneous and nongermane issues have been raised on those 
authorization bills. I don't remember the last time we had 
authorization bills for foreign operations out of the Foreign Relations 
Committee. I don't know when we have had authorization for other 
branches of government. The reason is because they always get bogged 
down in extraneous amendments on both sides. I am not placing the blame 
on the other side. I am placing the blame on both sides. This then bogs 
down the legislation which then, because of the exigencies of time, 
means we are not able to address the proper authorizing process for 
many functions of government. That, then, throws it all into the 
appropriations process. Of course, that is now an enormous shift of 
power and authority and responsibility from the authorizing committees, 
in whom the responsibility should lie, to the appropriating committees 
which are simply only supposed to appropriate money for previously 
authorized functions of government. I worry a great deal about that.

The only bill that has been consistently passed for many years 
through the Senate and into law is the Defense authorization bill. The 
Defense authorization bill is vital. We are now starting a very 
dangerous precedent by adding a very large and controversial provision, 
which is nongermane and nonrelated to defense, to a Defense 
authorization bill.

As my friend Senator Levin will point out, there have been other 
times where provisions have been added to this bill which were 
nongermane. Nothing of this magnitude, nothing of the controversy that 
is associated with the hate crimes legislation which was tacked on to 
this bill without any consideration in the committee itself. There was 
no committee consideration. When the bill came to the floor, bang, the 
first amendment out of the box was the hate crimes legislation which, 
of course, tied up the legislation for some days.

I understand the realities around here. I know what majority votes 
are. I know what majority membership in this body means. It was jammed 
through. I want to tell my colleagues, if we allow hate crimes to be 
added to this Defense authorization bill, what is next? What pet 
project or legislation on the part of the majority leader or the 
majority will be included in the next authorization bill?

If this legislation is signed into law, it will force police and 
prosecutors to treat identical crimes differently depending on a police 
officer or prosecutor's determination of the political, gender, 
philosophical, or even religious beliefs of the offender. Our legal 
system is based on identifying, capturing, and punishing criminals, not 
on using the power of government to divine biases. Crimes motivated by 
hate deserve vigorous prosecution, and I strongly support punishing 
those who commit such heinous acts under existing laws. Moreover, I am 
committed to a full and transparent debate on the issue. But I strongly 
oppose using the men and women of the military as the vehicle to pass 
this controversial and partisan legislation.

The Detroit News editorialized:




 Certainly, threats of violence or violence against 


 individuals for any reason should be prosecuted to the full 


 extent of the law. Not, however, because the victims are 


 members of a particular race or sex, adherents of a 


 particular religion or are gay. These crimes should be 


 punished because the victims are uniquely valuable 


 individuals who deserve the protection of the law solely on 


 that basis. The idea of special prosecutions for ''hate 


 crimes'' is inherently divisive.


I am pleased the conference report does retain some legislative 
language offered by Senator Brownback during Senate debate on the bill. 
The Brownback language clarifies that nothing in the hate crimes 
legislation language shall be construed as an infringement on 
Americans' first amendment rights. Additionally, his amendment ensures 
that nothing in the hate crimes language should be construed to 
overturn ''the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993'' that ensures 
our laws do not substantially burden Americans' free exercise of their 
religion.

The majority had the votes in July to add hate crimes to the Senate 
bill, and I am sure the majority will again have the votes today to 
invoke cloture on the conference report containing hate crimes 
language. It is indeed, unfortunate, that we are using the brave men 
and women in uniform as leverage to pass hate crimes legislation.

This legislation should have gone through the Judiciary Committee. 
That is the oversight committee. That is the committee of jurisdiction. 
I know my colleagues who are here on the floor will be justifying this 
legislation on the grounds of how badly it is needed. I say to the 
majority, who controls the legislative schedule here, they could have 
had this bill through the Judiciary Committee and on the floor of the 
Senate and passed in the Senate in the proper fashion and not put hate 
crimes on a bill that cares for the men and women serving in the 
military today. I worry a great deal about the precedent we will be 
setting by including an incredibly controversial piece of legislation 
in the Defense authorization bill which provides for our first and 
foremost obligation, and that is to secure the safety and welfare of 
our fellow citizens.

Finally, I believe it is important to note that the Defense 
authorization bill has been the only authorization bill that the U.S. 
Congress has consistently passed every year. Other authorization bills 
have often fallen under the weight of provisions inserted into must-
pass bills that are not relevant to the legislation and highly 
controversial. The lives of our men and men serving abroad literally 
depend on our ability to consistently and reliably pass this 
authorization bill every year. I am not willing to take a gamble with 
our troops. For these reasons I cannot in good conscience vote to 
support the motion to invoke cloture on this bill, and I encourage my 
colleagues to do the same.

Prior to the final vote on passage of the conference report, I plan 
to speak in more detail about the overall bill and the commitment we 
have made in this conference report to do everything possible to ensure 
our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines receive the support they 
deserve and need, as well as a message we need to send those brave men 
and women and their families whom we support and stand behind.

I will vote against cloture. I will vote for final passage of the 
legislation in deference to our need to care for the men and women who 
are serving. I also would point out that if cloture is not invoked, we 
could immediately pass a resolution reconvening the conference and get 
this bill done today. But that is not going to happen, unfortunately.

I yield the floor.