---
---

# THE PROMISE OF EMERGING DEMOCRACIES
## `e19728f688d2e982fa92742ba8bd2bec`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 16 September 2009`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I rise today to bring to my 
colleagues' attention a September 8, 2009, Washington Times op-ed 
written by Nursultan Nazarbayev, President of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan. Since 1991, Nursultan Nazarbayev has served as the 
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Oftentimes, emerging 
democracies like Kazakhstan are not the focus of media attention, but 
in the Washington Times op-ed entitled, ''The Promise of Emerging 
Democracies,'' President Nazarbayev reminds the world that emerging 
democracies do have an important and pivotal role to play on the global 
stage.








 [From the Washington Times, Sept. 8, 2009]










The Promise of Emerging Democracies












 (By Nursultan Nazarbayev)




 The world is remaking itself. Amid pressing economic 


 challenges and multinational security concerns, new alliances 


 are forming. Global commerce along with governments are 


 bringing down borders, opening relationships and creating 


 opportunity. Kazakhstan, like most emerging democracies, is 


 cautiously optimistic, with a pragmatism steeped in the hard 


 lessons of history. Policies have consequences; alliances can 


 liberate as well as captivate. With the stroke of a pen, 


 superpower leaders like Presidents Obama and Dmitry Medvedev 


 of Russia can reverse a decade of tepid relations to put 


 forces and agendas into motion that affect all of us.



 Nowhere in the world is the influence more keenly felt than 


 in Kazakhstan and Central Asia, positioned as we are between 


 Russia, China, Iran and Afghanistan. Here, a breeze in global 


 diplomacy among nations like Russia, the United States and 


 China can have the impact of a blinding windstorm, leaving us 


 to wonder about our role and influence within these 


 relationships.



 Bellicose nations rattle sabers to garner attention and 


 receive a concession here and there; certainly, their tactics 


 make the nightly news. Others push America and Western 


 democracies to the brink before backing off and waiting for 


 another strategic push in their quest for a place among 


 nuclear nations. Emerging democracies like Kazakhstan, on the 


 other hand, while not the focus of media attention, have a 


 responsibility and role to play on the global stage that is 


 far more consequential to the welfare of freedom-loving 


 nations.



 The objective of Mr. Obama and Mr. Medvedev to cut their 


 nuclear arsenals by a third is indicative of that role. The 


 current size of those arsenals was influenced greatly by a 


 decision our nascent democracy made 18 years ago to 


 permanently shut down the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, 


 which set the stage for a decision to safely dispose of 104 


 SS-18 intercontinental ballistic missiles we had inherited 


 from the Soviet Union, each tipped with 10 nuclear warheads. 


 To put this in perspective, North Korea, which the world 


 cautiously watches, is believed to have enough plutonium 


 for only a half-dozen atomic bombs.



 Keeping the weapons could have made Kazakhstan a larger 


 player in our potentially volatile region, and surely the 


 world would be more aware of us today. There were some who 


 encouraged us to keep the arsenal. But larger considerations, 


 including the role and responsibility of emerging democracies 


 like ours, weighed heavily in the decision. Our focus was on 


 building a new economic and political model in Kazakhstan, 


 and we had a firm belief that our future and welfare rested 


 on commercial and security relationships in the West.



 Our desire was to engage in what I like to call cooperative 


 leadership, pragmatic and constructive engagement with the 


 myriad and often complex forces in our region. This was the 


 philosophy that prompted us to dismantle our arsenal and 


 pursue relations not only with the United States, but with 


 Russia, China, Iran and, in fact, all nations that see 


 opportunity in Kazakhstan.



 On Aug. 29, we celebrated the anniversary of our decision, 


 and the philosophy of cooperative leadership that inspired it 


 continues to benefit Kazakhstan and our relationships 


 throughout the world. A dedication to democratic values, the 


 rule of law, transparency, tolerance and open trade has led 


 to stability and a strong, well-educated middle class. This 


 increasingly firm foundation at home enables us to play an 


 important role among nations abroad, providing strategic 


 engagement and opportunities for cooperation among countries 


 that often may be overlooked, as well as among those who may 


 not be inclined to work together otherwise.



 Sharing common values of freedom and peaceful development, 


 democracies firmly support each other. That is why since the 


 Sept. 11 terrorist attacks that shocked the entirety of 


 mankind, Kazakhstan has stood shoulder to shoulder with the 


 United States in the fight against international terrorism 


 and today provides much-needed assistance for the 


 stabilization of Afghanistan.



 As an emerging democracy practicing cooperative leadership, 


 Kazakhstan is able to encourage dialogue even among 


 adversaries. Our recently concluded third annual Congress of 


 Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is only one 


 example, with spiritual leaders attending from almost every 


 faith and nation to promote tolerance and understanding. 


 Likewise, our quest to establish an international nuclear 


 fuel bank to be governed by the International Atomic Energy 


 Agency, which would allow nations like Iran and others to 


 openly and honestly pursue their energy agendas, finds 


 support among leaders in the United States, Russia and China. 


 Recently, Israeli President Shimon Peres proposed Kazakhstan 


 as the site for a historic meeting with key leaders from his 


 country, Saudi Arabia and the Islamic world.



 This is how emerging democracies can make a difference. In 


 the absence of the entrenched and sometimes dogmatic 


 divisions of the past, young entrants on the global stage of 


 freedom can offer an environment for pragmatic solutions. Mr. 


 Obama understands this. Two weeks after his election, he 


 called to discuss regional cooperation, nonproliferation 


 measures and energy cooperation. At that time, and many times 


 since in public statements, he has favored pragmatism as the 


 basis for civilized statecraft.



 Some have suggested this is an inadequate approach for 


 charting the new direction in foreign policy that Mr. Obama 


 has promised. However, I believe those criticisms are 


 misconceived. Pragmatism is necessary in nation-building and 


 more likely to evoke a positive response from allies than an 


 ideological crusade. Emerging democracies understand this 


 challenge, undertaking in decades an experiment that has 


 engaged America for much more than 200 years. Cooperative 


 leadership is the important role we can play and the example 


 we can set for others.
