---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `e1afc2d9ceb8d821592f46776dc6481c`
`Mrs. MALONEY — 9 July 2009`

---


Mrs. MALONEY. I thank the gentlelady for her leadership on this bill, 
and I rise in support of this bill, and particularly commend the 
chairwoman for her leadership on the United Nations Population Fund, 
which was denied funding for 7 years under the prior administration, 
and will save women's lives; and her focus on helping the women under 
the oppressive Taliban regime in Afghanistan with over $100 million 
focused on female NGOs and the security of our country and the help for 
our allies. A great bill. I appreciate your allowing me to include my 
statement.

Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of the Foreign 
Operations Appropriations bill and commend Chairwoman Lowey and Ranking 
Member Granger for their hard work in crafting this important bill.

I am particularly pleased that it includes $60 million for the 
critical work done by UNPFA (the United Nations Population Fund).

Every minute of every day, a woman dies needlessly in pregnancy or 
childbirth, most in the developing world--this translates into 10 
million women lost per generation.

4 million newborns also die every year of similarly preventable 
causes. UNFPA has worked to end these deaths since it became 
operational in 1969.

It has provided significant assistance to improve the health and 
quality of life and to promote the health and rights of women 
worldwide.

UNFPA is the largest source of international assistance for women's 
reproductive health in the world and despite the past 7 years during 
which the previous Administration withheld funding for UNFPA, the 
United States Congress has demonstrated its strong support of the 
organization by approving U.S. financial support for UNFPA each year.

Fully 42 percent of all pregnancies worldwide suffer complications 
and in 15 percent of all pregnancies, the complications are life-
threatening.

In too many places, maternal health still receives inadequate 
attention and funding.

Fortunately for women around the world, UNFPA operates in 154 
countries specifically to combat maternal mortality and to promote safe 
motherhood.

The impact of losing U.S. funding over the past 7 years has been 
devastating.

For each of these years, UNFPA could have helped to prevent 2 million 
unintended pregnancies, 800,000 abortions, 4,700 mothers' deaths, and 
more than 77,000 infant and child deaths.

In 2001, the U.S. Agency for International Development estimated the 
global economic impact of maternal and newborn mortality at $15 billion 
per year in lost potential production, half associated with women and 
half with newborns.

Investing in UNFPA actually reduces healthcare costs, and teaching 
and promoting safe motherhood enables adequate time between births for 
women's bodies to better carry another pregnancy.

Mr. Chairman, this funding will help to restore the United States' 
standing in the global community while demonstrating its commitment to 
the lifesaving work of UNFPA.