---
---

# None
## `e1c324b1aa00146fc1e472ba0eab814c`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 4 December 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, as an original cosponsor, I rise in favor of the bill 
before us, H.R. 3887, the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims 
Protection Reauthorization Act. This was introduced by the chairman of 
our committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr. Lantos; and it 
remains one of the premier issues facing us today, Mr. Speaker.

Human trafficking is modern-day slavery. It is a major source of 
revenue for international criminal syndicates, and it is a grave abuse 
against human dignity. Hundreds of thousands of people are trafficked 
across international borders every year. It is estimated that 80 
percent of those are women, and half are children. Millions more are 
trafficked into sexual servitude and forced labor within their own 
countries.

In Iran, children are trafficked into sexual slavery and forced into 
involuntary servitude as beggars and day laborers. In Syria, women 
trafficked from South and Southeast Asia are forced to work as domestic 
servants, and women from Eastern Europe and Iraq are forced into 
prostitution. In China, up to 90 percent of North Korean refugee women 
fall prey to traffickers who sell them into sexual slavery. In our own 
hemisphere, Mr. Speaker, Cuba has been shamefully promoted as a 
destination for sex tourism that exploits large numbers of Cuban 
children.

The dehumanization and the brutality suffered by trafficking victims 
are nearly incomprehensible. I am proud that the Congress has helped 
turn this former non-issue into a priority for our United States 
Government and an issue, indeed, of international concern.

The enactment of the original Trafficking Victims Protection Act 7 
years ago was a watershed event. I want to commend the author of that 
act and the gentleman from New Jersey, Mr. Chris Smith, whose 
leadership on these issues has been central to the progress that we 
have made so far.

While there have been some signs of improvement, such as a larger 
number of countries that have enacted anti-trafficking legislation, 
other problems remain widespread. The number of countries, for example, 
listed in tier three, that is the most problematic category in the 
State Department's annual Trafficking in Persons Report, has actually 
increased from 12 countries to 16 since last year. Some of the 
governments with the worst records, such as Burma, Cuba, Iran, North 
Korea, Sudan and Venezuela, continue to resist making even basic 
efforts to protect vulnerable children and women.

A number of problem countries like Russia and China sit on the tier 
two ''Watch List'' year after year after year without further 
consequences, even though that category was originally created as a 
warning that countries are about to slip into the tier three category.

The bill before us today, Mr. Speaker, will not only reauthorize key 
aspects of prior trafficking legislation but it will also enhance our 
international anti-trafficking efforts, our domestic law enforcement 
and victim assistance activities, and efforts to fight the use of child 
soldiers worldwide. It will improve our Nation's victim-centered 
approach to fight human trafficking by strengthening each of the so-
called ''Three P's,'' prevention, protection, prosecution.

I want to commend the author of this bill again, Mr. Speaker, 
Chairman Lantos, and my fellow cosponsors for the perseverance and the 
compromise that they have invested in ensuring that this bill receive 
wide bipartisan support throughout consideration by the three 
committees of jurisdiction: Foreign Affairs, Judiciary, and Energy and 
Commerce. The revised text before us today also has been endorsed by an 
impressively broad array of organizations and experts from across the 
political spectrum.

The William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2007 is a vital weapon in our fight against the 
heartbreaking scourge of human trafficking, and it deserves our full 
support.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.