---
---

# RECOGNIZING SERGEANTS STEPHEN AND JEFFERY BROWN, SCOTTSDALE  HEALTHCARE'S ``SALUTE TO MILITARY'' HONOREE
## `e1ce5a67afb40ce302cd8d65a85b3027`
`Mr. MITCHELL — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Sergeants 
Stephen and Jeffery Brown, Scottsdale Healthcare's ''Salute to 
Military'' Honorees for July 2008. Scottsdale Healthcare has recognized 
Sergeants Stephen and Jeffery Brown and other physicians with a 
connection to the Armed Services for their diligent service to this 
country.

 I commend Scottsdale Healthcare for paying tribute to such deserving 
servicemembers. Sergeants Stephen and Jeffery Brown are brothers and 
the third generation of men in their family to proudly serve in the 
military.

 Sergeant Stephen Brown is currently on active duty and assigned to 
the 3rd Infantry Division from Fort Steward, Georgia. He returned home 
in mid-July from a second tour of duty in Iraq, to which he deployed in 
April 2007. Sergeant Stephen Brown is a Satellite Communications 
Technician and Computer Network Operator. Some of his awards include 
two Army Commendation Medals.

 Sergeant Jeffery Brown is also currently on active duty. He supports 
the 82nd Airborne Division from Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Sergeant 
Jeffery Brown is currently deployed to Iraq on his first tour of duty. 
He is expected to return in January 2009. He is a Licensed Practical 
Nurse and Medic now serving in a Combat Support Hospital in Iraq. Some 
of his awards include the Army Achievement and Army Service medals.

 The brothers' continued sacrifice extended well into their personal 
lives--despite working in the same Area of Operations, they saw each 
other only sporadically. One reunion took place over Thanksgiving, when 
the men were able to enjoy dinner together until their base fell under 
a rocket and mortar attack. Thankfully, no one was injured.

 Madam Speaker, please join me in recognizing Sergeants Stephen and 
Jeffery Brown's tireless dedication to serving our country and 
protecting the lives of other servicemen facing combat.
