---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `e1d2c568d0f213679b446028c6d506ce`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Madam Speaker, I am pleased once again to rise in 
support of H.R. 3326 the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Act. 
In addition to making important investments to keep the American people 
safe, strengthen our military, and support our troops, this amended 
bill makes sure that the American economy is safe, strengthens our 
recovery, and supports those in need.

As a veteran of the U.S. Army, and the representative of Fort Bragg 
and Pope Air Force Base, I am proud of our troops who serve our 
country, and pleased that we are completing our work on funding their 
efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, meeting their equipment needs at home, 
and fulfilling our commitment to our troops and their families. I spoke 
about many of those provisions when this bill first passed in July.

This amended bill also keeps our commitment to the working men and 
women of America who deserve support in this economic downturn. As the 
representative of a state with one of the highest unemployment rates in 
the nation, I am proud that this bill will provide a degree of economic 
security for workers who are struggling during this holiday season. 
Extending benefits for folks who are having trouble finding a job is 
the right thing to do for families and our recovering economy. The 
temporary support in this bill will help North Carolinians maintain 
health care coverage and pay their bills while they get back on their 
feet and find their next job opportunity.

This bill continues our efforts to get the economy back on track and 
create jobs. The families who receive extended benefits will be putting 
money right back into our local economy--buying groceries, filling 
their cars with gas, and making their mortgage payments on time. The 
bill also extends improvements to Small Business Administration 
guaranteed loans so that small businesses can secure the financing they 
need in these tight economic times. Small business are a major engine 
of our economy, and are responsible for almost all year-over-year job 
growth. We must make sure they can get the funding they need to create 
jobs so we can reduce unemployment and restore our economy.

Madam Speaker, this bill already made sure our Armed forces have the 
support they need to protect the American people. The amendments we are 
voting on today also make sure we preserve our economic safety net and 
promote American prosperity.

I urge my colleagues to join me in support of H.R. 3326.