---
---

# None
## `e1f97f822e9aabd12292ee5d238b5892`
`Mr. DORGAN — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, I know we are on a 30-hour postcloture 
period dealing with a piece of legislation related to Iraq. I want to 
speak about something else today, but let me at least begin by 
describing a somewhat different view.

The fact is, Saddam Hussein was hung until he was dead, hung by his 
neck, and this brutal tyrant is dead. I suppose most of us wish that 
Osama bin Laden had been brought to justice, but it is Saddam Hussein 
who has been brought to justice in the country of Iraq. He is dead. The 
Iraqis have their own Constitution because they voted for it. The 
Iraqis have their own Government because they voted for it. The 
American taxpayer has spent $16 billion training 350,000 police and 
soldiers in Iraq for security purposes. Now the question is: Do the 
Iraqis who have been trained for police protection and security--both 
in the police force and as soldiers--do they have the will to provide 
for their own security? If they do not, this country cannot do it for 
any great length of time.

We have been in Iraq for almost 5 years. Some day we are going to 
leave Iraq. The question is not whether; the question is when and how. 
The American people are not going to have us in Iraq for 10 and 15 and 
20 years. That is not the case. We are spending massive amounts of 
money, about $16 billion a month. Last year the President asked for 
more than $190 billion in emergency funding for the war. That is $16 
billion a month, $4 billion a week.

It is time we begin to understand we have needs here at home, to 
begin taking care of things here at home. We are spending money on 
hundreds of water projects in Iraq. We are spending money on road-
building in Iraq. We are spending money on health clinics in Iraq. Yet 
we get a President's budget sent to us saying we don't have enough 
money for those things in our country. We will dramatically cut water 
projects in the United States. We will cut back on all of these 
investments in the United States, even as we are making those 
substantial investments in the country of Iraq.


My point is that at some point we are going to have to bring American 
troops home. We can't keep doing as the President suggests, and that is 
spending emergency money by sending soldiers to Iraq and putting this 
on top of the debt so that when those soldiers come back from Iraq, 
they can help pay the debt. That is not the right way to approach what 
is happening in the country of Iraq.

All of us want the same thing for our country. We want our country to 
succeed. We want our country to confront and defeat terrorists. Yes, we 
want Osama bin Laden. Osama bin Laden is the person who heads al-Qaida. 
We are told by the Director of National Intelligence that he is safe 
and secure in northern Pakistan. There ought not be one square inch on 
the face of this Earth that is safe or secure for those who murdered 
Americans on 9/11. Yet more than 6 years later, this administration has 
not brought the leader and the leadership of the terrorist organization 
that attacked our country to justice. That is a failure, in my 
judgment, and it is a failure that results from taking our eye off the 
ball and having too few troops in Afghanistan and allowing Osama bin 
Laden to escape through Tora Bora, and then invading Iraq and 
committing ourselves to that over a lengthy period of time. The result 
is the greatest terrorist threat--according to the National 
Intelligence Estimate, the greatest terrorist threat against our 
country at this point is the leadership of al-Qaida. They are in a safe 
and secure haven in northern Pakistan. It seems to me that 7 years 
after 9/11, that has to be considered a failure. My hope would be all 
of us would engage in ways that begin to devote our attention to the 
greatest terrorist threat facing our country, and that is, as the 
National Intelligence Estimate says, the leadership of al-Qaida. They 
are recruiting and building new training camps and strengthening 
themselves even as we are tied down in the country of Iraq spending $16 
billion a month.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to speak in morning business 
for 15 minutes on another subject.