---
---

# MOTION TO INSTRUCT CONFEREES ON H.R. 2647, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `e1fa3dc1ea297012f93605743c87c654`
`Mr. AKIN — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, I have sat here and listened to this debate, 
and I've heard all kinds of reasons why the hate crimes bill is so 
wonderful. But the more they make the argument, the more confusing the 
question becomes. If this bill is so wonderful, why don't we bring it 
to the floor and just vote on it and pass it? Why, instead, are we 
going to stick this bill together with a bill for funding our national 
defense? The two don't belong together. They're not in the same 
committee. They have nothing to do with each other. What they have in 
common though is the fact that, instead of taking a straight-up vote, 
what we're going to do is we're going to hold everybody who depends on 
national defense, the people such as myself, who has a son going to 
Afghanistan in 3 weeks, they're going to hold us hostage.

We're going say, look, if you want to fund the national defense of 
the United States of America, you're also going to have to vote for 
this hate crimes bill. And one thing that my good friend from Virginia 
has made clear, and that is the public is starting to see through the 
shenanigans that go on in this place. And this is an extremely 
frustrating situation. It wasn't so many weeks ago that at 3 o'clock in 
the morning we passed a 300-page amendment to a bill that we were 
discussing the next day, and there wasn't even a copy of that bill in 
this Chamber, the cap-and-tax bill.

And here we are, again, with a bill which is on national defense. 
It's actually a fairly decent bill on national defense, and we're going 
to stick on this something that has nothing to do with it. I could 
speak on hate crimes, but the point of the matter is if everybody's 
who's saying hate crimes is such an important piece of legislation, 
let's bring it up on its own bases. Let's see if it will stand on its 
own base.

No, instead what we're going to do is we're going to sneak it 
through, and we're going to put it in so that anybody who wants to vote 
for national defense now is stuck having to support hate crimes. This 
is not the way this House should be run. The American public doesn't 
like to care about procedure, but they're getting fed up with this.