# MILITARY FAMILY MONTH
## `e202f3fadecc16e3457e4687b025f86a`
`Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia — 2 December 2009`

---


Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to applaud the 
actions of the House of Representatives in recognizing the burden which 
military families bear, and honoring the importance of the sacrifices 
they


make. I strongly support H. Res. 861, designating the month of 
November, which includes the Veterans Day holiday, as an appropriate 
time to observe National Military Family Month. As a Member of the 
House Committee on Armed Services, I find this resolution to be of 
great significance, and I urge my colleagues to support it.

Military families in my home State of Georgia have suffered the loss 
of 158 soldiers, 6 of whom were constituents in my district, as a 
result of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Nationwide, 
military families have endured the loss of thousands of soldiers. We 
owe them our gratitude and recognition for their service. The men and 
women who serve in the Armed Forces are responsible for carrying out 
the invaluable task of keeping our country safe, and as they fulfill 
their duties at home and abroad, they rely, not only on the political 
support of fellow citizens, but also on the emotional support of their 
families. As we move forward with important military objectives in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, we should not forget this unseen, but crucial, 
support. Indeed, the dedication of military families represents what is 
finest about our country. And, with increasing military challenges, 
this resolution, honoring their commitment, will reaffirm the 
solidarity and unity that provides our country with strength and 
resolve as we pass through this time of trial.

I yield back the balance of my time.