---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `e2155ca472aa79d4e6e1ef2265f6615e`
`Mr. JOHNSON — 16 November 2009`

---


Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, as we come back from the Veterans Day 
recess, the Senate resumes consideration of the MILCON-VA 
appropriations bill. As I have stated several times on the floor during 
this debate, this is a vital piece of legislation that needs to be 
passed as quickly as possible.

As I speak, the VA is operating under a stopgap funding measure. 
Funding the VA in that manner is far from ideal and interrupts planning 
and hiring at VA hospitals. The bill before the Senate today protects 
against this sort of problem in the future by providing $48.2 billion 
in advance appropriations for VA medical care. This is something that 
is supported by both sides of the aisle. In fact, this bill is one of 
the most bipartisan measures that we take up every year. That is why it 
mystifies me that we seem to be in a holding pattern.

One of the most critical parts of this bill is medical care for our 
Nation's vets. The VA is expecting to treat almost 6.1 million patients 
in fiscal year 2010, an increase of 2.1 percent over last year. 
Moreover, the Department estimates it will see the number of Iraq and 
Afghanistan war vets rise to 419,000 this year, a 61-percent increase 
in patient load since 2008. With these facts in mind, the bill targets 
the vast majority of discretionary funding for vets' medical care. The 
bill provides a total of $44.7 billion for medical care. Additionally, 
it provides $580 million for vital medical and prosthetic research. 
This is one of the many reasons why we need to get this bill passed and 
sent to conference as soon as possible.

In addition, hundreds of urgent military construction projects are on 
hold awaiting passage of this bill.

Under a unanimous consent agreement entered into last Monday, there 
are 27 amendments in order to this bill and one motion. As I understand 
it, we will soon be voting on one of the amendments and the motion to 
commit. Between now and the time of the vote, I wish to try to clear 
some of the other amendments that are in order to the bill. I have read 
all these amendments, and the vast majority are not controversial. It 
seems to me we should be able to clear them. If there are objections to 
any of these amendments, I urge my colleagues to come to the floor and 
express what objections they may have.

Taking care of our vets and our military troops and their families is 
one of the most important tasks of this body. Surely, we can all work 
together and pass this bill quickly.










Amendment No. 2781 to Amendment No. 2779
