# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES
## `e219ac038ca4c1aecf191e558a5316ef`
`Mr. DURBIN — 9 November 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I will speak briefly to the Senator from 
Oklahoma. This is not my bill. This was a bill introduced by Senator 
Hillary Clinton. It has been around for a long time. It is an effort to 
provide some help to the 6,800 families who have in their homes today a 
disabled veteran who needs a caregiver, someone who helps that veteran 
change the dressings on their wounds, provides an IV change if 
necessary, injections if necessary, move them from bed to chair and 
back again. For many of our veterans, that is their lifeline. It is a 
wife who is giving her life to her husband who has returned injured 
from a war. It is a mother, a father, a son, a daughter, a loved one in 
the family. These people are as much a part of our veterans medical 
system as the great people who serve us at the veterans hospitals and 
veterans centers across America.

What Senator Clinton wanted to do and what I want to help her do is 
provide some help for these caregivers. Many of them are giving their 
lives to this veteran. It is not too much to ask that we help them with 
a small stipend each month, with training so they know how to do the 
things that are necessary so they can provide the medical help these 
veterans need, with 2 weeks of respite so they can have a little time 
off by themselves and have someone else, such as a visiting nurse, step 
in for the veteran during that period of time.

We reported the bill out of the Veterans' Committee and brought it to 
the floor. By custom in the Senate, regardless of what you just heard, 
we first pass a bill authorizing a program and, if it is passed, we 
appropriate money to the program. I am trying to follow that regular 
order.

The Senator from Oklahoma has objected. He is the only person 
objecting. Because of his objection 6,800 veterans, those who served 
Iraq and Afghanistan,


are unable to get this additional care. I know we cannot give it to 
every caregiver. I know it will be limited, and we will have to make 
that decision as part of our deliberation as to what we can do. But to 
say we should do nothing for these people is to make a mockery of this 
Veterans Day. If we truly care for these veterans, let us care for 
these families who are giving their lives to help them.

I hope the Senator from Oklahoma will lift the hold on this bill, 
give us a chance to debate it, offer his amendments. That is what we 
are here for. But to merely stand and say: No, stop, I will not allow 
it, I don't think is what the Senate should be about. Let us debate his 
point of view, my point of view, other points of view, and try to reach 
some conclusion.










Amendment No. 2759 to Amendment No. 2730


I ask that the clerk call up my pending amendment No. 2759.