# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `e2392c71f5c0892a81e80c78af4a76a8`
`Mrs. MALONEY of New York — 12 July 2007`

---


Mrs. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H.R. 2956, the ''Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act.''

This legislation would accomplish what the majority of the American 
people have said over and over that they support--the redeployment of 
American troops from Iraq. H.R. 2956 would require this redeployment to 
begin within 120 days, with completion to a limited presence by April 
1, 2008.

The evidence continues to mount that the surge is not working. More 
than 3,500 troops have lost their lives and more than 26,000 have been 
wounded since this war began. The costs are too great to continue this 
failed policy.

The progress report that was presented to Congress today states that 
the Iraqi government has made limited progress in meeting political, 
economic, or security benchmarks and in some instances has made 
virtually no progress at all. The President said that when the Iraqis 
stand up, our troops will stand down. More than four years later, we 
are still waiting.

Increasingly, Republican senators are coming forward to announce that 
they support a change in policy in Iraq. I am glad that they are 
finally accepting what many of us have been saying for months. Yet the 
President continues to dig in by promoting his failed policy against 
the will of the American people and despite dwindling support within 
his own party.

This bill establishes a new direction for our forces in Iraq. I urge 
my colleagues to listen to their constituents and support this 
legislation.