---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2082, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e23b3231f48dce63d107be1340912541`
`Mr. WELDON of Florida — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. WELDON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.

I rise to commend the majority for including, under the rule, the 
amendment that will be offered later by Mr. Hoekstra, the ranking 
minority member, former chairman of the committee, to strike section 
407 of the bill. This is the section of the bill that so many people 
have commented on so far today that will now task our national 
intelligence resources to start looking at the issue of climate change.

To me there is a great irony in this happening here today because for 
many years we have heard criticism from Democrats over and over again 
on the so-called inefficiencies, inadequacies of our national 
intelligence capabilities, specially as it related to WMD in Iraq and 
their failure to get an accurate picture of that. And now we see today 
an expansion of their duties and responsibilities.

I believe most Americans look for our intelligence agencies not to be 
engaged on the issue of climate change but more directly to be involved 
in the business of protecting American safety and security, protecting 
our national assets, protecting the American people.

Furthermore, one of the other things that strikes me as greatly 
ironic about this is, we have an extensive array of Federal agencies 
currently studying this issue. We have NOAA, the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, which has a wide array of satellites and 
scientists that are constantly studying both short-term and


long-term implications of climate change.

We have, additionally, NASA engaged on this issue, with three major 
Earth-observing satellites on orbit studying the issue of the Earth's 
climate.

And as well, there are multiple programs run by the National Science 
Foundation; they have the Geosciences Directorate (GEO), the Office of 
Polar Programs (OPP), the Atmospheric Science Subactivity, the ATM. 
And, ladies and gentlemen, I haven't even touched on the EPA and all 
the work that they are doing on this issue.

To me, this issue is controversial. There is a sizeable number of 
Americans who feel that the severity of the problem of climate change 
does not justify some of the extreme actions that many people in the 
radical environmental community are trying to propose today, and I just 
can't help but feel this is a political issue to try to hijack our 
intelligence assets to get them on the global warming bandwagon so we 
could have draconian changes in American policy that could adversely 
affect our economy and our Nation.

So I thank the majority for putting the Hoekstra amendment in order. 
Mr. Hoekstra, the former chairman, now ranking member, is very 
knowledgeable on intelligence policy.

I intend on supporting the Hoekstra amendment. I encourage all my 
colleagues to listen carefully to that debate.