---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3222, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `e245dfcc314e170ccd712d0b0ce9cf58`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I would submit for the Record an article 
from Congressional Quarterly Today, dated October 23, 2007, and a copy 
of page 289 from this bill.











 [From CQ Today, Oct. 23, 2007]







Item in War Request Stokes Fears of Iran Strike













 (By John M. Donnelly)




 Some Democrats are worried that President Bush's funding 


 request to enable B-2 ''stealth'' bombers to carry a new 


 30,000-pound ''bunker buster'' bomb is a sign of plans for an 


 attack on Iran.



 Buried in the $196.4 billion supplemental war spending 


 proposal that Bush submitted to Congress on Oct. 22 is a 


 request for $88 million to modify B-2 bombers so they can 


 drop a Massive Ordnance Penetrator, or MOP, a conventional 


 bomb still in development that is the most powerful weapon 


 designed to destroy targets deep underground.



 A White House summary, accompanying the supplemental 


 spending proposal said the request for money to modify B-2s 


 to carry the bombs came in response to ''an urgent 


 operational need from theater commanders.'' The summary 


 provided no further details. The White House and the Air 


 Force, in response to queries, did not provide additional 


 clarification.



 Previous statements by the Defense Department and the 


 program's contractors,




 along with interviews with military experts, suggest the 


 weapon is meant for the kind of hardened targets found 


 chiefly in Iran, which Bush suspects developing nuclear 


 weapons capability, and North Korea, which already has tested 


 a nuclear device.



 Bush has said repeatedly that he prefers to use diplomacy 


 to resolve tensions with Iran over its nuclear program. But 


 his request for funding to deliver the new bunker buster 


 comes amid a sharp escalation of tough White House rhetoric 


 about Iran's nuclear program in recent days.



 On Oct. 18, Bush said a nuclear armed Iran could lead to 


 ''World War III.'' Three days later, Vice President Dick 


 Cheney warned of ''serious consequences'' if Tehran continued 


 to enrich uranium.



 Against that backdrop, the proposed funding for bunker 


 busters has some in Congress worried.



 James P. Moran, D-Va., a senior member of the House 


 Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, said he did not believe 


 the MOP could be used in Iraq or Afghanistan and cited Iran 


 as the potential target for the bomb. He said he would oppose 


 the funding.



 ''That's a clear red flag,'' Moran said.



 Jim McDermott, D-Wash., an outspoken critic of Bush's war 


 policies, said the funding request was the latest of many 


 signs that indicated Bush was contemplating an attack on 


 Iran. McDermott said such a scenario was his ''biggest fear 


 between now and the election.''



 ''We are not authorizing Bush to use a 30,000-pound bunker 


 buster,'' he said. ''They've been banging the drums the same 


 way as they did in 2002 with Iraq.''
















Stealth Delivery




 The Boeing Co., in conjunction with Elgin Air Force Base in 


 Florida, has been developing the Massive Ordnance Penetrator 


 for several years and first tested the bomb in March. The 15-


 ton bomb would be dropped by B-52 or B-2 bombers.



 In June, the Northrop Grumman Corp., maker of the B-2, won 


 a $2.5 million contract from the Air Force to retrofit the 


 bat-winged, stealth bombers so they could drop the new 


 weapon. The new funding, if approved, would significantly 


 expand that initiative.



 The B-2 made its battlefield debut during the Kosovo War in 


 1999. It is optimal for use against sophisticated enemy air 


 defenses because its radar-evading surface is difficult to 


 detect.



 In interviews Tuesday, military experts said the new weapon 


 was not designed for the kind of counterinsurgency campaign 


 being conducted by U.S. forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. They 


 said the MOP could prove useful against other targets, 


 notably underground Iranian facilities that are said to be 


 producing nuclear weapons materials.



 ''A weapon like this is designed to deal with extremely 


 hard and buried targets such as you would find in Iran or 


 North Korea,'' said Loren Thompson, a defense analyst with 


 the conservative military think tank, the Lexington 


 Institute, who is also a consultant for some defense 


 contractors.



 ''Clearly, in the case of North Korea, the likelihood of 


 military action is receding as the Pyongyang government 


 becomes more tractable,'' said Thompson, referring to recent 


 progress in diplomatic efforts to persuade North Korea to 


 dismantle its nuclear programs.



 John Pike, an expert on defense and intelligence policy 


 with Globalsecurity.org, said the MOP could be used against 


 Iran's main uranium enrichment facility at Natanz.



 ''It'll go through it like a hot knife through butter,'' 


 Pike said. He noted that the B-2 would be the best aircraft 


 to deliver the bomb ''if you want it to be a surprise 


 party.''



 It is not clear how quickly the new weapon could be ready 


 for delivery by a B-2 if the $88 million were enacted. A 


 spokesman for Northrop Grumman declined to provide a time 


 frame.



 Not all Democratic lawmakers oppose the weapon. Non-nuclear 


 bunker busters have emerged in recent years as favorites of 


 Democrats concerned about Bush administration's earlier plans 


 to conduct research on nuclear models.



 ''We need to have this as a conventional weapon,'' said 


 Norm Dicks, D-Wash., a member of the House Defense 


 Appropriations Subcommittee. ''It adds to our deterrent.''

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
































 Budget














 R-1















Request


 House



Senate

 Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
68
SPECIALIZED UNDERGRADUATE FLIGHT TRAINING...............


 12,622


 12,622


 15,622


 15,022


AT-68 for the Air National Guard........................
...........
...........



3,000



2,400
70
B-2 ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY BOMBER..........................


244,019


289,219


292,019


297,819


AF Requested transfer for Radar Modernization Program...
...........


 38,000


 38,000


 38,000


Small Diameter Bomb.....................................
...........



7,200
...........



5,800


Massive Ordnance Penetrator for B-2.....................
...........
...........


 10,000


 10,000
71
PERSONNEL RECOVERY SYSTEMS..............................


290,059


190,059


 98,059


105,000


Contract award delay....................................
...........

 -100,000

 -192,000


-86,059


Transfer to Line 57, Aircraft Procurement, Air Force,

 ...........
...........
...........


-99,000


 only for H-60 upgrades.................................
72
ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT..........................


101,649


103,149


103,649


103,249


Rapid Replacement of Mission Critical Logistics




 ...........



1,500



2,000



1,600


 Electronic Components..................................
76
COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS....................................


 53,412


 53,412


 65,412


 64,412


Space Control Test Capabilities.........................
...........
...........



5,000



4,000


RAIDRS Block 20 (Air Force unfunded requirement)........
...........
...........



7,000



7,000
77
SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS SYSTEMS.......................


187,804


197,604


187,804


197,604


Space Fence.............................................
...........



9,800
...........



9,800
79
SPACE BASED INFRARED SYSTEM (SBIRS) HIGH EMD............


587,004


614,604


587,004


587,004


MCSB Upgrade............................................
...........


 27,600
...........





0
80
ALTERNATIVE INFRARED SPACE SYSTEM (AIRSS)...............


230,887


 75,887


 75,000


 75,887


Program Growth..........................................
...........

 -155,000

 -155,887

 -155,000
82
ARMAMENT/ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT...........................



1,985



3,485



1,985



3,185


1-1000 Warhead Technology Demonstration.................
...........



1,500
...........



1,200
84
AGILE COMBAT SUPPORT....................................


 10,623


 12,623


 10,623


 12,223


Improvised Ordnance Detonator-Advanced Development......
...........



2,000
...........



1,600
86
LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEMS....................................


 12,649


 13,649


 12,649


 13,649


ACES II Ejection Seat Improvement.......................
...........



1,000
...........



1,000
88
INTEGRATED COMMAND & CONTROL APPLICATIONS (IC2A)........




189


 13,189



8,189


 17,589


Program Engineering Interoperability Framework..........
...........



2,000
...........



1,600


Enterprise Services for Reach Back Capabilities (ESRBC).
...........



3,000
...........



3,000


MEDSTARS Integration with Global Combat Support System..
...........



2,000
...........



1,600


Airborne Web Services (AWS) Spiral 5....................
...........



1,000
...........




800


Distributed Mission Interoperability Toolkit (DMIT).....
...........



5,000
...........



4,000


ASSET eWing and Data Fusion Technology Integration Base.
...........
...........



5,000



4,000


Global Awareness Presentation Services (GAPS)...........
...........
...........



3,000



2,400
89
INTELLIGENCE EQUIPMENT..................................



1,469



1,469



5,969



5,069


Electronic Warfare Modeling, Simulation and Wireless


...........
...........



4,500



3,600


 Testing Center.........................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


I have made known in the course of hundreds of speeches the last few 
years my opposition to the war in Iraq, so I don't need to elaborate on 
that. I have a bill in H.R. 1234 that would bring our troops home and 
set in motion an international peacekeeping and security plan that 
would enable that to move in as our troops leave. I believe the best 
way to support the troops is to bring them home.

But I rise today to inject a note of caution into these proceedings 
about an item in this appropriation which could have enormous 
consequences for United States policy with respect to Iran.

It has been well reported that there is a provision in this bill that 
will enable the modification of B-2 Stealth bombers so that they can 
drop what is called a bunker buster or massive ordnance penetrators, as 
they are called, that would go to destroy deep underground targets. 
Every defense analyst who has been interviewed about this item has 
suggested that there is one reason and one reason only why this request 
was expedited by the administration, and that is to retrofit these B-2 
bombers so they will be able to drop 30,000-pound bombs on Iran.

Now, I know there are Members of this House who would, perhaps, 
support a strike against Iran. I don't. I think diplomacy is the 
preferred path here.

But I think that if we are looking at this item that is number 70 on 
page 289, we cannot approve of this without thinking of the 
consequences of the administration's approach. Because if you drop 
30,000-pound bombs, bunker busters, on nuclear research labs, this is, 
in effect, creating a humanitarian and ecological disaster. There is 
just no way to avoid it, because you are


talking about the release of radiation that's inevitable from dropping 
such a bomb.

Now, some could say, well, that's the idea. It cannot be the idea. We 
are talking about a war crime in motion here. This would have the 
effect of, perhaps, Chernobyl, which released radiation and ruined, 
poisoned land in Russia. It would have human health effects that would 
be catastrophic.

We have got to think about the implications of this particular item. 
I think it's really important that Congress reflect on it. That's why I 
oppose the bill.