# None
## `e248298d5e14733dc4dcaa5b274b5075`
`Mr. REED — 25 March 2010`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, on April 5, the extension that was recently 
voted for extended unemployment compensation benefits will expire. We 
need to at least provide for a temporary extension while we await the 
resolution of a much broader piece of legislation that is in the House 
today which would provide for an extension of unemployment benefits 
from today until the end of the calendar year, as well as FMAP payments 
to the States and other provisions.

This is absolutely critical. In my home State of Rhode Island, we 
have basically a 13-percent unemployment rate--12.7 percent. We have a 
record number of long-term unemployed people. This is not a situation, 
as in the past, where there was a temporary labor crisis. This has been 
going on in Rhode Island for almost 2 years or more, and people have 
reached the end of their resources and the end of their patience. For 
many, the only thing that is sustaining them--and not particularly 
well--is the fact they are still getting some unemployment benefits.

So we have to move very aggressively to provide a solution. We have 
never, in the last several decades--reaching back at least as far as 
the 1980s--denied extended unemployment benefits as long as the 
unemployment rate nationally was at least 7.4 percent. It is 10 
percent, and in many States it is higher than that--Rhode Island being 
one of those States. So this would break tradition in terms of 
disrupting, interrupting, preventing extended benefits at a time when 
we have 10 percent unemployment.

We have persistently seen this, accurately and realistically, as an 
emergency--an emergency that allows us to provide funding without 
offsets. That is something that I think still is compelling. This is an 
emergency. Perhaps one of the ironies that will take place on this 
floor in the next several weeks is that we will call up a supplemental 
budget from the Department of Defense which, as I understand, will not 
be offset totally. One of the ironies is that we will be providing 
benefits--because part of our strategy in Afghanistan and Iraq is civic 
engagement--we will be providing employment opportunities and 
investment in infrastructure for Afghans and Iraqis without offset, 
which is my understanding at the moment. The irony, of course, is that 
for our own citizens we are claiming: No, we can't do that.

The other side has accumulated, under the Bush administration, a huge 
debt. In fact, in the term of the Bush administration, the national 
debt grew astronomically. Part of it was because repeatedly the 
Republican side refused to provide offsets to the funding for the war 
in Iraq, the war in Afghanistan, and Medicare Part D, which was an 
entitlement payment for seniors in terms of their drug prescriptions. 
They thought that paying for things was an undue constraint on their 
plans. But now that we are in a crisis that affects Americans, there is 
the insistence during this emergency of paying for it, which 
contradicts practice and contradicts the real needs out there.

One final point. We are now beginning to see some very limited 
progress on the employment front. This week's report about jobs caused 
a very positive reaction in the marketplace because the number of 
first-time claimants for unemployment compensation dropped much further 
than they thought. That suggests we are beginning to bottom out. There 
are other reports that suggest we will see some job growth beginning. 
That is because of the stimulus efforts we have undertaken today and in 
the past.

Part of that stimulus effort has been unemployment compensation 
insurance. For every dollar we invest in unemployment compensation, 
there is $1.90 growth in economic activity. That is the result of 
studies over many years. So when we don't invest in these types of 
programs, we are not only denying sustenance to many families, we are 
also not providing the kind of economic stimulus that the country needs 
to move forward.

So for all those reasons and more, I hope we can move, in the course 
of this evening or tomorrow, to adopt a measure that will allow us to 
continue the funding for unemployment compensation.

With that, I thank the Senator from Illinois, and I yield the floor.