---
---

# None
## `e253d71402eb7aee970fc786de7ad398`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, I want to thank you so very much. When you 
say ''originators,'' it makes me feel a little old.

But, Mr. Speaker, I'm glad to be joining my great colleague here. He 
had a wonderful bill on today on the floor. I'm so glad that the 
Members voted in a unanimous way in making sure we bring about the kind 
of accountability that the American people have been calling for for a 
very long time now.

I think Mr. Murphy has stepped on something, like they say in the 
country, of being able to bring to light, exactly what are you making? 
Why are you motivated to be a part of this ongoing war, this kind of 
the quiet storm that's going on, special interests supporting with 
commercials and all, the war in Iraq and Afghanistan?

So we do know that the war in Afghanistan is all about 9/11, but the 
war in Iraq, after 5 years, is about something else.

Former President Bill Clinton puts it this way: If a family next door 
had a fire, any good neighbor would allow their neighbor to come over 
and stay at their home and let them sleep on the couch or the extra 
room for a couple of weeks; and maybe that neighbor may ask, well, can 
I stay for 2 or 3 months? And nine times out of ten, a good neighbor 
would allow that person to stay 3 or 4 months. But when it's 5 years 
later, it's no longer about the fire.

I think that it's important that we look at it from that standpoint, 
especially as we look at some of these companies that are tenfold going 
along with, let's keep this war going, let's keep the American people 
scared about what may happen to them if we were to withdraw the 
majority of our troops from Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I think it's important, and I want to share this with 
the Members because there was a great debate on this floor today when 
we talked about this issue of gas prices.

Now it's very ironic that our Republican colleagues on the other side 
tried to do what we call here on this floor a procedural maneuver, a 
motion to recommit saying that what are you doing about gas prices in 
America. Now, this


is very interesting, and I wish I had my chart down here as it relates 
to profits that Big Oil has made on the Republican watch.

When President Bush became President, Dick Cheney had a special 
meeting in 2001 with oil companies, and all of a sudden, these oil 
companies started making these profits that were really unconscionable, 
unprecedented, never happened before in the history of the Republic. 
But then again we have Republicans on the floor saying, what is up with 
these oil prices?

Well, you know, it's very interesting. I want to point the Members, 
too, because it's nothing about fact versus fiction. Republican 
leadership wrote the Speaker a letter saying, well, what are you doing 
about the fuel issue and the price of gas in the United States of 
America? And me knowing the Speaker and all of us knowing the Speaker, 
that she sleeps with her fists balled up, especially fighting on behalf 
of the American people.

And I think it's very, very important, and we realize that this is 
very serious business, when folks have to pay $4 out of their pocket to 
pay for a gallon of gas, I think it's something that we should be 
paying close attention to.

The Speaker wrote the Republican leadership back in this House and 
said, It's interesting. We have H.R. 2264 that we put forth on the 
floor in asking the Department of Justice to take legal action against 
OPEC-controlled entities for participating in oil cartels that are 
driving up the price of oil. That's H.R. 2264. How about the Energy 
Price Gouging Act, which is H.R. 1252, legislation that will reduce the 
burden of rising gas prices on American families, providing immediate 
relief to consumers by giving the Federal Trade Commission authority to 
investigate and punish those that are artificially inflating fuel 
prices? How about H.R. 5351 with ExxonMobil ranked as the most 
profitable company in 2007? It's unnecessary for taxpayers to subsidize 
Big Oil. It goes on and on.

I will pull one more bill out. How about the marketing manipulation 
provision that was in the Energy Independence Security Act of 2007? It 
talks about some of the very things that I mentioned.

But this is not the kicker, Mr. Speaker and Members. It's interesting 
that the Republican leadership would write the Speaker trying to do a 
Potomac two-step when we're here about the business.

See, the reason why we're in the majority is because Republicans, 
Independents, Democrats, people that voted for the first time wanted to 
vote for change, so they voted for the Democrats to take control of 
this House of Representatives; Republicans who are frustrated, 
Republican voters who are frustrated with the fact that Republicans 
were saying one thing and doing another in the back halls of Congress. 
We have opened this process up when we took the majority here, and 
that's what they were looking for, and we will continue.

But the irony of the whole issue is that the Republicans will write a 
letter to the Speaker as though ''we got you on black-and-white 
paper,'' and she's not paying enough attention to say, Wait a minute. 
Let me call you out since you wanted to call me out.

As a matter of fact, the top of the Republican leadership here voted 
against the issue as it relates to OPEC price gouging, voted against 
the Price Gouging Act that we passed, the House bill that I called out 
just a few minutes ago; voted against renewable energy so that we can 
drive the cost down and compete with petroleum and OPEC companies and 
other folks that want to raise the price of gas in the United States, 
and voted against the Energy Security Act.

So I think it's very important for us to look at the hypocrisy of the 
democracy on the other side of the Republican aisle. Now I won't 
generalize all of the Republicans in this House because some of them 
voted with the Democrats on it because they see the light.

Many of their colleagues that were lockstep with the philosophy of 
the letter that the Republican leadership wrote to the Speaker are now 
watching me at home on C-SPAN because they made a career decision not 
to follow the will of the American people and bring about the kind of 
change that they woke up early one Tuesday morning looking for. This 
great democracy of ours calls for representation. Not representation of 
special interests.

And so I'm very pleased with my Democratic colleagues that have voted 
for our Democratic leadership to be in the leadership to lead us in 
this new direction that we share with the American people. We didn't 
just share it with Democrats; we shared it with Republicans, we shared 
it with the Independents, and we shared it with the American people. We 
shared it with those that are yet unborn, those that cannot vote right 
now to give them hope in this government that we're here fighting on 
behalf of them.

There are veterans right now that are in the sound of my voice, that 
can hear my voice right now, that have fought for this country and 
allowed us to salute one flag. And I think it's very, very important, 
Mr. Speaker, very, very important, Members, very, very important, those 
congressional staffers, that we do the things that we have to do to 
make this country better.

These kind of letters, writing back and forth for the sake that I 
wrote a letter, motions to recommit to say that we're going to call the 
Democrats out on not doing anything about gas prices; we don't have oil 
on our hands. They need to go down to 1600 Pennsylvania and check that 
out. They had the first meeting. They sat down with oil executives. 
They're the individuals that have the oil background.

And we have a better reason of why we need to change what is going on 
right now through using alternative fuel versus telling American people 
that they're addicted to oil.

So we've got a lot of work to do, and I'm hoping that this bipartisan 
vote that we took on Mr. Murphy's bill today is something that's 
blowing through the air ducts here in Washington, D.C. that Republicans 
and Democrats can vote together when it makes sense. It makes sense for 
us to look for alternative fuels.

It makes sense for us to be greener. It makes sense for us to do what 
we're doing here, Mr. Murphy and Mr. Speaker, of greening the Capitol. 
Greening the Capitol, we just started that when the Democrats took 
control. Mr. Murphy talked about the fact that this made sense, but it 
never would have seen the light of day, Mr. Speaker, if it wasn't for 
Democratic leadership here in this House allowing Mr. Murphy's bill to 
make it to the floor so Members can vote in a unanimous way.

Some of my friends on the other side of the aisle, Republicans, 
they're people, too. And it's very important that we give them the 
opportunity to vote on good pieces of legislation. And I think it's 
important that we don't allow anyone to stand in the school house door 
or the policy door of this Congress and not allow legislation to come 
to the floor.

Case in point, Mr. Murphy, if I may. All of the 9/11 recommendations 
were held back by the Republicans when they were in control. We passed 
them here in the House of Representatives. To be able to cut student 
loan interest rates in half on behalf of all of the American people; 
those that drive Ford, Chevy trucks that are paying somewhere in the 
neighborhood of $95 to fill their tank up, to those individuals that 
are catching the bus that have been green all their lives because they 
have no alternatives; those individuals that wake up early in the 
morning that snap, pop these sheets over here in Washington, D.C. and 
throughout America in these hotels that know what it means to punch in 
and punch out every day with a 15-minute break in the morning, if they 
get it, and a 30-minute lunch break, if they get it, those kind of 
individuals. Those kind of individuals that come home and take off 
steel-toed boots and sit down and try to recover from the day that they 
had of working a solid 8 or 12 hours. Those individuals.

Those are the kind of people that we talk to here in this Democratic 
Congress. Those are the kind of individuals that we allow Republicans 
to vote on good legislation like Mr. Murphy brought to the floor today 
because he just got here and he wants to show his constituents and the 
American people since they federalized him to come to this floor to 
represent them, that they will have the opportunity to vote for good 
legislation. Not only for him to go home but for him to sleep right at 
night.

So I think it's important, Mr. Speaker. I have no problem with 
Members


bringing amendments to the floor. I have no problems with Republicans 
raising the point of how we can make legislation better. But it's one 
thing, Mr. Speaker, and Members, when you come to the floor and you're 
the pot calling the kettle black, it's one thing for that to happen.

And one thing that I do like, Mr. Murphy, about our 30-Something 
Working Group is that we're in the business of fact and not fiction, 
that we're in the business of carrying out the will of the American 
people, because we stood on this floor some 4, 6 hard years saying that 
if you give us the opportunity to lead, this is what we will do. 
Democrats, Republicans, Independents, American people, and those yet 
unborn will appreciate our efforts.



So I think it is important. I'm not upset. If someone says, well, 
Congressman sounds kind of upset, that guy from Miami. I thought he was 
kind of easy going, you know, folks from Florida get all excited about 
things, Sunshine State and all. I'm just glad that God provided me an 
opportunity to stand upright to be on this floor. And folks in the 17th 
Congressional District in Florida on one Tuesday morning voted for me 
to be here to be able to state what I'm saying right now. And so this 
is not propaganda, it's fact.

I want to thank the Speaker for responding to the Republican 
leadership on this issue. And I want to thank those Republicans that 
voted on your very good piece of legislation. I'm glad, because I look 
forward--I actually sent something out to a couple of friends talking 
about this today, and I think it's important that we do that.

Mr. Murphy, I want to thank you for your leadership. I'm glad that we 
have the opportunity to do the things that we have to do. I know the 
American people are paying attention to what the presidential 
candidates are saying. I'm hoping that in the President's closing days, 
that he has an opportunity to sign and be a part of the good 
legislation that we're trying to pass here. And I want folks to stay 
engaged.

Before I close on this segment, I just want to say, because I never 
hit the floor unless I share with the Members what's happening in Iraq 
right now, that as of today, April 23, 4,046 Americans have died in 
Iraq; total number of wounded in action and returned to duty is 6,520; 
and total number of wounded in action not returning to duty is 3,309. 
Mr. Speaker, I think every day that should be read into the 
Congressional Record so that Members understand their responsibilities 
and what they have to do.