---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `e2565cb090b22a43cc0e08eb46b8ee0b`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, in the last several days we 
have said all that we perhaps need to say about the omnibus. We have 
discussed every inch of it. We all know about the amendment on the 
Senate side. And, because of that, I am going to give up my 20-minute 
speech.

I would like to take just a moment nonetheless to ask the Members to 
join me in paying a very special tribute to one of the most beloved and 
respected staffers on Capitol Hill.

After 3 years as my staff director, Frank Cushing is leaving the 
committee at the end of the year to pursue other opportunities. With 
more than 25 years of Capitol Hill experience, Frank leaves behind a 
record of integrity and service that few can match.

I got to know Frank in 1995 when he served as my clerk on the House 
VA-HUD subcommittee of appropriations, a position he held until 2003. 
In very little time, I saw that Frank was one of those rare staffers 
who not only loves and respects this institution, but he in turn is 
respected and trusted by Members on both sides of the aisle.

Prior to his service in the House, Frank held numerous positions in 
the Senate, including staff director, both majority and minority, of 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, and clerk of the 
Interior Appropriations Subcommittee. More than one professional on 
both sides of the aisle have said to me, and I would quote them, ''You 
are fortunate if you have been trained in this business by Frank 
Cushing.''

Frank, we are going to miss you. We want you to know that, as we 
express our love for you and for Amy, the entire body wishes you well 
and wishes your family Godspeed. Thanks, Frank.

Mr. Speaker, we are now just 6 days away from the Christmas holidays. 
I know the Members and staff are eager to get home to their families so 
I intend to be very brief in my remarks today.

The House is considering a yearend omnibus spending package that, I 
must confess, is a much better product than what we considered Monday 
evening. I reluctantly opposed


both amendments passed by the House 2 days ago because they failed to 
provide for our troops in harm's way in Iraq. Fortunately, the Senate 
has now addressed this oversight. The Omnibus returns to the House a 
much better and complete bill.

Because this spending package adheres to the President's top line on 
spending, and it contains funding for our men and women in uniform in 
both Iraq and Afghanistan, I intend to support this legislation. And, 
I'm pleased to say that all indications are that the President will 
sign it.

Before concluding my remarks, I want to thank Chairman Obey and the 
fine committee staff for their tireless efforts this year. Few people 
realize the tremendous amount of work that goes into the appropriations 
process each year.

The Appropriations Committee is the workhorse committee. Chairman 
Obey and our staff have worked very long hours to produce this 
legislation, and they deserve our gratitude. David, it is time for you 
to go home to Wisconsin and for me to go to California for a few weeks. 
It's time to let the staff catch up on some long overdue family time 
for the holidays.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to take almost no more time except to 
recognize a couple of my colleagues for unanimous-consent requests.

I first recognize the gentleman from Florida, my chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee, Bill Young.

(Mr. YOUNG of Florida asked and was given permission to revise and 
extend his remarks.)