---
---

# GLOBAL WARMING
## `e265693894ab7cae2af1e6cc1aeeda9a`
`Mr. INHOFE â€” 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. INHOFE. The article continues to note the lack of global warming 
recently and mentions the fact that many scientists are predicting a 
coming global cooling.

Following the BBC, other British news outlets have run similar 
headlines. The UK Sunday Times wrote ''Why everything you think you 
know about global warming is wrong.'' This is coming from Great 
Britain. The Daily Mail, another major publication in Great Britain, 
had a headline: ''Whatever happened to global warming? How freezing 
temperatures are starting to shatter climate change theory.'' 
Australia's Herald Sun has picked up on the trend as well. Columnist 
Andrew Bolt, noting the turning tide of media around the world, wrote:




 This is like the moment in the Emperor's New Clothes, in 


 which the boy calls out ''but he's naked!"


Let's be clear. Some of the media were already beginning to question 
the consensus even before that announcement.

Television personalities were coming around as well. In April, 
Charles Osgood, host of ''CBS News Sunday Morning'' and a noted 
environmentalist, questioned global warming projections. He asked:




 Right now, global warming is a given to so many, it raises 


 the question: Could another minimum activity period on the 


 Sun counteract, in any way, the effects of global warming?


Osgood later scolded himself for even questioning global warming 
before stating:




 I'm sure you'll be hearing more about this solar dimming 


 business, now that the story is out. Remember, you heard it 


 here first . . .


Lou Dobbs, formerly with CNN, has also joined the chorus questioning 
the alarmists, consensus. In January, Dobbs compared the belief in 
manmade global warming to a religion.

He stated:




 They bring this thing to a personal belief system. It's 


 almost a religion, without any question . . .


Dobbs also criticized what he called ''crowding out of facts and 
objective assessment of those facts . . . there's such selective 
choices of data as one


discusses and tries to understand the reality of the issues that make 
up global warming.''

In September, another dramatic announcement came from Houston 
Chronicle science reporter Eric Berger. He stated:




 Earth seems to have at least temporarily stopped warming. 


 If we can't have confidence in short-term prognosis for 


 climate change, how can we have confidence in long-term?


The bright light is also fading on the U.N. IPCC. In August, the New 
York Times ran the headline ''Nobel Halo Fades Fast for Climate Change 
Panel.'' The article notes:




 As the panel gears up for its next climate review, many 


 specialists in climate science and policy, both inside and 


 out of the network, are warning that it could quickly lose 


 relevance unless it adjusts its methods and focus.


Weeks later, on September 23, the New York Times again acknowledged a 
shift in public moods and scientific evidence when it stated that the 
U.N. faced an ''intricate challenge: building momentum for an 
international climate treaty at a time when global temperatures have 
been relatively stable for a decade and may even drop in the next few 
years.''

Given the media's track record, this is hardly surprising. As I noted 
in my 2006 speech, the media runs hot and cold in their coverage of 
climate change. Quoting here, I said at the time:




 Since 1895, the media has alternated between global cooling 


 and warming scares during four separate and sometimes 


 overlapping time periods. From 1895 until the 1930s, the 


 media peddled the coming ice age.


Everyone is going to die. We are going to freeze to death.




 From the late 1920's until the 1960's they warned of global 


 warming. From the 1950's until the 1970's they warned again 


 of a coming ice age. This makes modern global warming the 


 fourth estate's fourth attempt to promote opposing climate 


 change fears during the last 100 years. Recently, advocates 


 of alarmism have grown increasingly desperate to try to 


 convince the public that global warming is the greatest moral 


 issue of a generation. Last year, the vice president of 


 London's Royal Society sent a chilling letter to the media 


 encouraging them to stifle the voices of scientists skeptical 


 of climate alarmism. During the past year, the American 


 people have been served up an unprecedented parade of 


 environmental alarmism by the media and entertainment 


 industry, which link every possible weather event to global 


 warming. The year 2006 saw many major organs of the media 


 dismiss any pretense of balance and objectivity on climate 


 change coverage and instead crossed squarely into global 


 warming advocacy.


Maybe one reason the media is starting to come around is that the 
public is shifting as well. It is easy to sell magazines, books, and 
movie tickets when you have everyone eating out of your hand believing 
that a climate catastrophe is right around the corner. Once the 
audience isn't buying that story anymore, it might be time to start 
acknowledging the other side.

If we look at Time magazine, I remember back in 1975, Time magazine--
and Newsweek of the same year--said another ice age is coming. There it 
is. This is 1974. This was in Time magazine. Another ice age is coming. 
Then you fast forward to about 3 years ago. That same Time magazine had 
a picture of the last polar bear in the world standing on the last ice 
cube and saying: Now it is global warming.

This is why the media is coming around. Polls are showing an 
unprecedented shift in public opinion on the science of climate change 
as well as cap-and-trade proposals in Congress. Only a few weeks ago, 
in October, Politico reported:




 As the nation struggles to climb out of a recession, 45 


 percent rated the economy as the most important issue in 


 deciding their vote if the congressional election were held 


 today, followed by 21 percent who said government spending, 


 20 percent who chose health care reform and 9 percent who 


 said the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Just 4 percent of the 


 people said climate change was the top issue.


I can remember when that was 60 percent.

The people have caught on. You are going to see the media, if they 
want to sell their stuff, come back and change their position. We are 
seeing that now.

Economic worries also led a majority of Americans to place jump-
starting the economy ahead of concerns about the environment. Even as 
the Obama administration is pushing for climate protection legislation, 
62 percent of those polled agreed that ''economic growth should be 
given priority, even if the environment suffers to some extent.'' The 
remaining 38 percent believe that ''protection of the environment 
should be given priority, even at the risk of curbing economic 
growth.''

Further, earlier this year Gallup released a poll that found that 41 
percent of the people believe global warming claims are exaggerated. 
What about the effect of Al Gore's climate scare campaign? The Gallup 
poll editor Frank Newport says he sees no evidence that Gore is 
winning. Newport said:




 It's just not caught on, they have failed. Any measure that 


 we look at shows Al Gore's losing at the moment. The public 


 is just not that concerned. [ . . . ] Ask people to name the 


 biggest concerns, and just 1 percent to 2 percent cite the 


 environment. The environment doesn't show up at all, it's Al 


 Gore's greatest frustration. We seem less concerned than more 


 about global warming over the years . . . Despite the movies 


 and publicity and all that, we're just not seeing it take off 


 with the American public. And that was occurring even before 


 the latest economic recession.


Again, further quoting Frank Newport:




 As Al Gore I think would say, the greatest challenge facing 


 humanity . . . has failed to show up in our data.


Polls have also shown that when looking at environmental issues only, 
climate change continually ranks dead last among concerns. This wasn't 
true a few years ago. This is what is taking place now. This is after 
all the media hype, all the hysteria.

The Gallup poll in March found global warming ranked last in the 
United States among environmental issues. This is just environmental 
issues. Air and water pollution, toxic waste, animal and plant 
extinctions, the loss of tropical rain forests all ranked as a greater 
concern than global warming.

As Gallup stated:




 Since more Americans express little to no worry about 


 global warming than say this about extinction, global warming 


 is clearly the environmental issue of least concern to them.


These are the environmentalists.




 In fact, global warming is the only issue for which more 


 Americans say they have little to no concern than say they 


 have a great deal of concern.


The public is also unwilling to accept legislation on climate change 
that would cost them money. Rasmussen found that 56 percent of 
Americans said they are not willing to pay any additional taxes or 
utility costs to fight global warming.

The clear rejection of fear and hysteria is leading many on Capitol 
Hill to change their tune on climate legislation. Turning away from 
using scare tactics, the left is now trying to sell cap and trade as 
clean energy legislation. Don't say climate change, don't say global 
warming, don't say cap and trade anymore. Say clean energy economy--
that is something that sells. So if you keep renaming the same thing, 
maybe it will sell.

As the New York and the L.A. Times have recently reported, the White 
House, concerned by the lack of support for their cap-and-trade 
initiatives, is using poll-tested talking points to help push one of 
the President's biggest priorities. The New York Times caught on to 
these new talking points earlier this year, reporting:




 The problem with global warming, some environmentalists 


 believe, is ''global warming.'' The term turns people off, 


 fostering images of shaggy-haired liberals, economic 


 sacrifice and complex scientific disputes, according to 


 extensive polling and focus group sessions conducted by 


 ecoAmerica, a nonprofit environmental marketing and messaging 


 firms in Washington.


The L.A. Times also reported:




 Scratch ''cap and trade'' and ''global warming,'' 


 Democratic pollsters tell Obama. They're ineffective . . . 


 Control the language, politicians know, and you stand a 


 better chance of controlling the debate. So the Obama 


 administration, in its push to enact sweeping energy and 


 healthcare policies, has begun refining the phrases it uses 


 in an effort to shape public opinion. Words that have been 


 vetted in focus groups and polls are seeping into the White 


 House lexicon, while others considered too scary or 


 confounding are falling away.


Despite his longtime work on cap and trade, Senator John Kerry 
actually went so far as to say he didn't even know what cap and trade 
is, saying in September:




 I don't know what ''cap and trade'' means. I don't think 


 the average American does. This is not a cap-and-trade bill, 


 it's a pollution reduction bill.





While Senator Kerry says he doesn't know what cap and trade is, the 
American public knows what it is: a massive new energy tax, plain and 
simple.

It has been kind of interesting to watch this change, watch the 
phraseology change as time has gone by. But we know this: Nothing has 
really changed since Kyoto. It is the same thing, cap and trade, the 
largest tax increase in the history of America.

Let me conclude by saying just how encouraged I am to say that the 
tide has turned--not is turning, it has turned. The skeptics' challenge 
has been heard, and I am glad to see that more and more journalists are 
no longer reporting the hyped fears that many want the American public 
to believe. Media outlets around the world are more skeptical today of 
manmade climate fears, and they are also more aware of the enormous 
cost of climate legislation. More importantly, polls are showing that 
the people are no longer buying the hype either.

The bottom line is that efforts to pass the largest tax increase in 
America's history have clearly failed, handing the American people a 
tremendous victory.

It has been a long time, some 8 years.

I see the Senator from Vermont is very anxious to counter these 
things I have been saying. That is perfectly all right. That is one 
thing about this body--you have the opportunity to do that. There is no 
one I consider a better friend than the person presiding right now, 
from Maryland. He and I were elected together many years ago to the 
House of Representatives. We disagree on this issue.

What I am reporting here is science, and the people have come to an 
agreement. After 8 years, the truth finally does come out.

Winston Churchill said: Truth is incontrovertible. Ignorance may 
prevent it. Panic may resent it. Malice may destroy it. But there it 
is.

I yield the floor.