---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e26619c47b6675183142feffeb7ac19a`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I rise this afternoon in opposition to 
the Leahy-Specter amendment on the Defense authorization bill. The 
Leahy-Specter amendment will strike an important change made by the 
Military Commissions Act of 2006 that strips courts of jurisdiction to 
hear habeas corpus petitions from alien unlawful enemy combatants 
detained by the United States.

This amendment would restore jurisdiction to the Federal courts to 
hear habeas petitions from detainees who are currently pending trial 
before a military commission. Essentially, this amendment would grant 
habeas corpus rights to all non-U.S. citizens, regardless of location, 
who are detained by the United States.

The amendment would have the effect during the current global war on 
terrorism or during a large-scale protracted war on the scale of World 
War II of giving any noncitizen detained by U.S. forces, regardless of 
where they are detained and regardless of the reason for their 
detention, the right to challenge that detention in the U.S. court 
system.

I can think of few better ways to ensure that the United States is 
defeated in any conflict in which we engage and few better ways to 
undermine the national security of the United States than to adopt this 
amendment.

In 2004, the Supreme Court's decision in Hamdi v. Rumsfeld held that 
the President is authorized to detain enemy combatants for the duration 
of hostilities based on longstanding law-of-war principles. It also 
held that Congress could authorize the President to detain persons, 
including U.S. citizens, designated as enemy combatants without trial 
for a criminal offense so long as the enemy combatant has a process to 
challenge that designation.

As a result of the Hamdi decision, the Department of Defense created 
the


Combatant Status Review Tribunal, a process where detainees may 
challenge their status designations.

Congress passed and the President signed the Detainee Treatment Act 
on December 30, 2005, which included the Graham-Levin amendment to 
eliminate the Federal court statutory jurisdiction over habeas corpus 
claims by aliens detained at Guantanamo Bay.

After a full and open debate, a bipartisan majority of Congress 
passed the Military Commissions Act just last fall. The MCA amended the 
Detainee Treatment Act provisions regarding appellate review and habeas 
corpus jurisdictions by making the provisions of the DTA the exclusive 
remedy for all aliens detained as enemy combatants anywhere in the 
world, including those detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The MCA's 
restrictions on habeas corpus codified important and constitutional 
limits on captured enemies' access to our courts.


The District of Columbia Circuit upheld the MCA's habeas restrictions 
in Boumediene v. Bush earlier this year. The Supreme Court, in a rare 
move, reconsidered their denial of certiorari and will make a decision 
on this case in the near future. In the meantime, Congress should not 
act hastily.

Before the Supreme Court decision in Rasul v. Bush in June 2004, the 
controlling case law for over 50 years was set out in the Supreme Court 
case of Johnson v. Eisentrager, a 1950 case which held that aliens in 
military detention outside the United States were not entitled to 
judicial review through habeas corpus petitions in Federal courts. The 
Court recognized that extension of habeas corpus to alien combatants 
captured abroad ''would hamper the war effort and bring aid and comfort 
to the enemy,'' and the Constitution requires no such thing.

The Rasul case changed the state of the law for detainees held at 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, due to the unique nature of the long-term U.S. 
lease of that property. The Supreme Court reasoned that the habeas 
corpus statute and the exercise of complete jurisdiction and control 
over the Navy base in Cuba were sufficient to establish the 
jurisdiction of U.S. Federal courts over habeas petitions brought by 
detainees.

The Supreme Court ruled that the status of a detainee as an enemy 
combatant must be determined in a way that provides the fundamentals of 
due process--namely, notice and opportunity to be heard. The executive 
branch established Combatant Status Review Tribunals, or CSRTs, to 
comply with this mandate. Judicial review of CSRT determinations of 
enemy combatant status by article III courts is provided by the 
Detainee Treatment Act. Under the DTA, appeals of CSRT decisions may be 
made to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit.

In his dissent in the Rasul case, Justice Scalia wisely pointed out 
that at the end of World War II, the United States held approximately 2 
million enemy soldiers, many of whom no doubt had some complaint about 
their capture or conditions of confinement. Today, approximately 25,000 
persons are detained by the United States in Iraq, Afghanistan, and at 
Guantanamo Bay.

Restoring jurisdiction over alien enemy combatants could result in 
providing the right of habeas corpus to all those detainees held 
outside the United States so long as their place of detention is under 
the jurisdiction and control of the U.S. Armed Forces.

In fact, habeas challenges on behalf of detainees held in Afghanistan 
have already been filed.

The Supreme Court recognized in Johnson v. Eisentrager that allowing 
habeas petitions from enemy combatants forces the judiciary into direct 
oversight of the conduct of war in which they will be asked to hear 
petitions from all around the world, challenging actions and events on 
the battlefield. This would simply be unworkable as a practical matter 
and could greatly interfere with the Executive's authority to wage war. 
As the Supreme Court revisits these issues, Congress should not undue 
what it has done.

Federal courts have ruled twice--in December 2006 at the district 
court level on the remand of the Hamdan case from the Supreme Court and 
again in February 2007 at the DC Circuit Court level in the 
consolidated cases of Boumediene and Al Odah--that the Military 
Commissions Act is constitutional and that alien enemy unlawful 
combatants have no constitutional rights to habeas corpus.

The Supreme Court, at the end of June, decided it would hear these 
cases on expedited appeal this fall. It is appropriate for Congress to 
allow the Supreme Court to review the decision made by the DC Circuit 
Court of Appeals, applying the standards of review enacted in the DTA 
and the MCA before granting habeas rights to and opening the Federal 
courts to thousands of detainees held outside the United States.

For these reasons, and simply because it represents extremely bad 
policy, I urge my colleagues to oppose the Leahy-Specter amendment.

Mr. President, I had also intended to talk a little while today about 
Senator Graham's amendment seeking to strike section 1023 of the 
underlying bill. It is my understanding now that there are discussions 
ongoing relative to the possibility of trying to work that amendment 
out. So if that amendment does come to the floor for consideration, I 
will be back to talk about the support of that amendment at that time.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.