# EMERGENCY MEDIC TRANSITION ACT OF 2010
## `e26c870079127082a1db6c461e94747e`
`Ms. HARMAN â€” 22 September 2010`

---


Ms. HARMAN. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friend and subcommittee 
chair, Mr. Pallone, and his ace staff for working to bring this 
bipartisan bill, the Emergency Medic Transition, or EMT Act, to the 
floor. I also want to thank Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Whitfield, Mr. Buyer and 
others for their support in committee. Truly, it might be said that 
bipartisanship broke out in our committee during the debate on this 
bill.

As you heard from Mr. Pallone, the bill will help our brave men and 
women who serve as medics in Afghanistan and Iraq to transition into 
EMT jobs when they return. The act authorizes grants for States that 
have a shortage of EMTs to create a fast-track program for vets who 
received and completed military emergency medical training to become 
emergency responders. The funds authorized in this bill can be used to 
provide coursework and training, and reimbursement for the cost of 
coursework, and any certification fees.

Obviously, the bill is a win-win for the country and our vets. Its 
passage will enhance the surge capacities of local medical facilities 
and provide jobs for our vets, especially during this critical economic 
downturn.

It is worth noting that the unemployment rate last year for Iraq and 
Afghanistan veterans 18 to 24 years old was 21.1 percent. Let me repeat 
that. Our returning vets' unemployment rate was 21.1 percent 
unemployment, which is significantly higher than the 16.6 percent rate 
for nonveterans of the same age.

Presently, military medics who wish to become first responders must 
restart their training from scratch, fulfilling the same entry level 
criteria as people with no prior training or experience. These 
duplicative efforts waste time, money, and talent. At the same time, 
many hospitals and emergency medical services throughout the country 
operate at or near capacity, and a terrorist attack or natural disaster 
would result in a surge of patients that would overwhelm medical 
facilities. Correcting this requires having the largest possible pool 
of experienced medical personnel on hand.

With military medics' recent experience administering trauma care in 
Afghanistan and Iraq, these vets are ideally suited to respond to 
large-scale medical emergencies. They are ideal first responders, 
making life or death decisions amid a backdrop of chaos and confusion. 
Their work at the scenes of IED attacks, suicide bombings, and 
firefights prepares them for this.

In conclusion, the GAO study that Mr. Pallone referenced will report 
on barriers experienced by veteran medics and whether or not we should 
expand this program to other health care providers.

I urge support for the bill. It demonstrates in tangible form our 
appreciation for the service and skills of our returning military 
medics.

