---
---

# IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `e2704e8e356a099398a9581c4062064b`
`Mr. LEAHY — 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I can explain this easily. It is a 
bipartisan amendment. I offer it on behalf of myself and Senators 
Thomas, Stevens, Roberts, Pryor, Sanders, Enzi, Hatch, and Whitehouse 
to restore the minimum allocation for States under the State Homeland 
Security Grant Program. Right now, in the underlying bill, it is 
proposed at .45 percent. Our amendment would restore it to current law 
which is .75. That means that every State would have, of the homeland 
security money, at least .75 percent of it.

I should point out, incidentally, as with current law, our State 
minimum, under our amendment, would apply only to 40 percent of the 
overall funding of this program. This may sound somewhat tricky, but 
what it means is


we have special funding for certain unique areas--ports areas, large 
cities and all--but this applies to only 40 percent of the overall 
funding. The majority of the funds would continue to be allocated based 
on risk assessment criteria--again, the idea of a major port, or 
something like that, as are the funds under the several separate 
discretionary programs which Congress has established for solely urban 
and high-risk areas. These are also governed by risk assessment 
calculations. That is not something that is going to be affected by the 
so-called small State minimum.

The underlying bill before the Senate would reduce the all-State 
minimum for SHSGP in the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program 
to .45 percent. In the other body it is reduced even further, to .25 
percent. So we know this is going to be a matter in conference under 
any circumstances. In fact, due to the formula differences--it is 
somewhat complicated, but as a result, there is no guarantee that the 
minimum would not even be further reduced during conference 
negotiations.

Small- and medium-sized States face a loss of millions of dollars for 
our first responders if the minimum is lowered. If you reduce the all-
State minimum to .45 percent, the underlying bill would reduce the 
guaranteed dollar amount for each State by 40 percent. With the 
appropriations for the formula grants having been cut by 60 percent 
since 2003--it was $2.3 billion in 2003; it is $900 million in fiscal 
year 2007--if you have a further reduction in first responder funding, 
it is going to hinder, actually, every State's effort to deal with 
potential terrorist attacks. That applies to fiscal year 2007 homeland 
security and law enforcement terrorism grants which were funded at $525 
million and $375 million, respectively, for a total of $900 million.

Under the current all-State minimum, the base amounts States receive 
is $6.75 million. Under the 2007 levels, each State would face a loss 
of an estimated $2.7 million or 40 percent under this new formula, and 
this is assuming we do not go even lower when we go to conference with 
the other body. For small States--one that comes to mind is Montana. 
Why that particular one came to mind I don't know. Maybe looking at the 
distinguished Presiding Officer made me think of it. But the cuts would 
be even deeper should the President's budget requests for next year be 
approved. He requested only $250 million for these two important first 
responder grant programs.

Under the .45 percent minimum proposed by the underlying bill and the 
.25 percent minimum proposed by the Feinstein-Obama amendment, the 
guaranteed amount for each State would drop to $1.125 million and 
$625,000 respectively.

Again, these are all numbers and percentages you talk about. But what 
it means is it would be a loss of millions of dollars in homeland 
security funding for fire, police, and rescue departments in small and 
medium-sized States. At the same time we are being told, you have got 
to prepare to be able to do this and do that; we have to be able to 
have a unified response around our Nation, we are going to have to call 
on you first and foremost; you have got to have your radios, your 
equipment, your training. Oh, by the way, find the money somewhere. You 
are part of a national effort, but find the money somewhere in your 
small communities or States to do it.

It deals a crippling blow to launch federally mandated multiyear 
plans for terrorism preparedness. Basically we can say from Washington 
what you should do in these multiyear plans. We tell you how to 
coordinate, how you train and plan, and it may be a small town on the 
border, the Federal border, you could be on a major waterway, but find 
the money somewhere. We want you to do this because the Nation needs 
you, we just cannot help you.

Now, I understand there is a budget crunch. We need a lot of money to 
send over to Iraq so the Iraqis can prepare for national defense. We 
need a lot of money to send over to Iraq so they can spend it on their 
police departments. We need a lot of money to send over to Iraq so they 
can spend it on their fire departments. I don't know, maybe I am old-
fashioned in this regard, but I think maybe we kind of ought to look at 
our police departments first, our fire departments first. If I have a 
burglar in the middle of the night, I am not going to call the Iraqi 
police department, I am going to call my local police department. If we 
have a fire, I am not going to call the Iraqi fire department, I am 
going to call my own fire department. If we have a terrorist attack, if 
we have a terrorist attack coming across our border or on one of our 
major waterways, I am not going to call the Iraqi fire department or 
police department, I am going to call our own. We are going to be the 
first responders. It is not going to do much good to say, sorry, we do 
not have the money for you because we needed it for your counterparts 
in Iraq.

Even if the current .75 percent minimum is applied to the President's 
budget request, as my amendment does, States would still see a major 
drop. They would be guaranteed a minimum amount of $1.875 million. That 
is a drop of $4.875 million from the fiscal year 2007 guaranteed 
minimum amount.

Now, I have voted for, I have supported, antiterrorist efforts for 
our large States. We have seen what terrorism can do in larger States. 
In Oklahoma, it was, of course, homegrown. In Oklahoma City it was an 
American, former member of our armed services who attacked. But the 
damage to our people was as great as somebody coming from outside.

In New York City, it was from outside our Nation, the Twin Towers, 
and every one of us who goes to work in this building that was targeted 
for destruction by the terrorists. I have no problem in giving special 
funding to places that might be seen as being possible high-profile 
targets. But I wrote the current all-State minimum formulas as part of 
the USA PATRIOT Act in 2001 to guarantee each State receives at least a 
fraction of 1 percent, three-quarters of 1 percent of the national 
allotment to help meet their national domestic security needs. Some 
States may have many times that, of course. But each State receives 
some kind of a minimum amount because every State--rural, urban, small 
or large--has basic security needs. They are going to have basic 
security requests from the Federal Government, and they deserve to 
receive Federal funds under this partnership to meet both those needs 
and the new homeland security responsibilities the Federal Government 
demands.

As I said before, high-density urban areas have even greater needs, 
and that is why this year alone we provided $1.3 billion for homeland 
security programs which Montana cannot apply for, Vermont cannot apply 
for. I don't have any problems with that. There is only a small number 
of urban areas that can, and we have a special pot of money for that.

Those needs deserve and need to be met. We are talking about the 
amount of money for homeland security which is a fraction of what we 
currently are spending in Iraq anyway. At some point we have to talk 
about what our needs are here inside the homeland.

I worked very hard over the years to help address the needs of larger 
States and high-density areas. I have done it on the Appropriations 
Committee, I have done it in the Judiciary Committee, and I have 
opposed the administration's efforts to pit our States against each 
other as they have tried to mask their efforts, the administration's 
efforts, to cut overall funding for first responders.

Smaller States especially would never be able to fulfill the 
essential duties they are asked to do by the Federal Government on top 
of their daily responsibilities without some Federal support, such as 
DHS currently suggesting that States will have to pay for REAL ID 
implementation, this idea they have come up with, which is basically 
having a national identification card. No matter what you call it, it 
is the first time in our history that we have a national identification 
card. But you know that is going to cost the States, this idea that was 
cooked up out of an office here in Washington. It is going to cost our 
individual States $16 billion. If you cut down the minimum even more at 
the same time you are making substantial drops in overall first 
responder funding, then small and medium-sized States are not going to 
be able to meet these Federal mandates for terrorism prevention, 
preparedness, and response.

Some from urban States argue that Federal money, the Federal money to


fight terrorism, is being spent in areas that do not need it; it is 
wasted in small towns. They claim the formula is highly politicized and 
insist on the redirection of funds to urban areas that they believe 
face these heightened threats of terrorist attacks.

Well, what the critics of the all-State minimums seem to forget is 
that since the September 11 terrorist attacks, the Federal Government 
has asked every State, every State and every local first responder, 
every local first responder, to defend us as never before on the front 
lines in the war against terrorism.

Emergency responders in one State have been given the same 
obligations as those in any other State to provide enhanced protection, 
preparedness, and response against terrorists. The attacks of 9/11 
added to the responsibilities and risks of first responders across the 
country.

In recent years, due to the .75 all-State minimum allocation for 
formula grants, first responders have received resources to help them 
meet their new responsibilities. They have made their neighborhoods 
safer. They made our communities better prepared. A lot has been done.

I hope my colleagues will support my amendment to restore the .75 
percent minimum base and give us the kind of support and resources for 
our police, fire, and EMS services in every State if we want them to 
carry out the responsibilities.

I see the distinguished senior Senator from Utah, one of our 
cosponsors on the floor.

I yield the floor.