# URGING A MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR MILITARY PERSONNEL
## `e2968821f01c6938b60482da86805387`
`Mr. KINGSTON — 20 March 2010`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

As a member of the defense committee who represents four military 
installations, someone who has gone to Afghanistan and Iraq five times, 
and never without going to Ramstein to visit our logistics crew over 
there, at Landstuhl Hospital to visit people in the hospital, as well 
as to go to Walter Reed Hospital here in Washington, I feel very 
strongly that this resolution is a good resolution and should be 
debated and voted on.

I have to tell you that at only 20 minutes per side, that sort of 
gives a signal to veterans also what the majority thinks about 
veterans. This is a good bill and I'm going to support it, but it 
saddens me that this is the vehicle in which we're going to be allowed 
to talk about health care.

But as I talk to the veterans of my four military installations back 
home and the ones who are retired in those areas, they're saying this 
is a horrible health care bill. I did not go to Iraq, I did not go to 
Vietnam, I did not fight in World War II for you to take away my 
freedom in one piece of legislation.

I've got to remind my friends of what the Speaker said just a week or 
two ago. I quote directly Speaker Nancy Pelosi: ''We need to pass this 
bill so you can find out what's in it.''



Does anyone deny that is a direct quote from the Speaker? That is 
exactly what Speaker Pelosi said.

So when my veterans back home are concerned, along with the middle 
class taxpayers, of what's in this bill, I think they have that right 
to have some apprehension. We do need full debate. Keep in mind that 
health care is one-sixth of the economy, $2.4 trillion.

This is a major government intrusion into it, not that the government 
should not be in it at all. But we are totally changing the balance of 
it, and yet we're not having a full debate. Why not have just several 
hours but weeks? Can you say to me with a straight face that would be 
unreasonable? We need to have hours and hours of debates.

The Republican Party has offered 99 amendments, and how many will be 
accepted? Zero. No ideas from the Republican Party. And shutting out 
the Republican Party might be great Democrat politics, but you're 
shutting out the people that we represent.

And I will point out, as you know, you don't need one single 
Republican vote. If this bill is so good, why did you not pass it in 
August? You didn't pass it because you didn't have the Democrat votes. 
The reason we're here on a weekend is because you don't have the 
Democrat votes. Now, I don't know what the President was here today 
doing. I don't know what he gave away. We know about the Louisiana 
purchase. We know about the hospital in Connecticut. We know about the 
Gator aid for Florida. We know about the Cornhusker kickback in 
Nebraska. And we found out now that student loans are being put in the 
health care bill. How did that get in there? The federalization of 
student loans is now in the health care bill. That doesn't make sense 
at all, and it doesn't make sense that in North Dakota they're exempted 
from the law.