---
---

# NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `e2a4270fa8fcd5690a8f43a46652e6cb`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 7 May 2008`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. A former President once unfairly 
characterized a leader of this House as someone who couldn't walk and 
chew gum at the same time. The gentlewoman from West Virginia extends, 
frankly, that insult to the whole House. She suggests we can't do two 
bills in one night. She says we should work to try to help avoid 
foreclosure. I agree. That's the next bill which we will get to after 
all of this useless temper tantrum is over, we will get to it at 3 
o'clock in the morning, but we will get to it.

That bill will help avoid foreclosure. I know the gentlewoman agrees. 
She voted for that bill in committee although a majority of her 
colleagues were against it.

But I do not understand how anybody could argue that doing this bill 
now interferes with that bill later. They are totally not in conflict.

So the notion that this bill doesn't keep people out of foreclosure 
is true. It doesn't combat global warming. It doesn't get troops out of 
Iraq. It won't help me lose weight. There are a lot of things this bill 
won't do that I very much want to do. None of them are a reason to vote 
against a bill that doesn't do what it doesn't say it's going to do but 
does what it does.

What it does is to go to the aid of cities that have been victimized 
by the deregulation run rampant, perpetrated by this administration, 
which has led to the subprime crisis. We have vacant property 
everywhere in these areas.

Now the argument that this is going to award speculators and be an 
incentive to do foreclosures is also flatly wrong. This is $15 billion. 
People will tell you it's a lot of money, and it is. Do you know how 
much money this is? This is half of the money that this administration 
made available to buy up the debts of Bear Stearns. Now, I think they 
had to do that. I think they were forced to do it. But I think we have 
to do this as well.

I do think that the whole country, under this administration's 
calculation, ought to get at least half of what Bear Stearns got. 
That's all that this does.

Now, unfortunately, it's not nearly enough to buy up the property 
that's foreclosed. So anyone who says, I'm going to foreclose today 
because I want to get in on this, would be nuts because there is 
already property ahead of them. And even when this bill becomes law, if 
it does, there's a 60-day wait, and I hope it will be part of the 
stimulus.

Property that was once paying taxes because of this subprime crisis 
now eats taxes. It bites neighborhoods. And, yes, some of the people 
who foreclose may benefit here. But we are telling the cities and the 
States to be careful with this money. They have to buy it for 
affordable housing. That will put limits on what they will pay.

And you can say, well, why don't the cities do it on their own? 
Because the very cities that need help here have lost revenue because 
of this foreclosure. These properties are fire traps; they attract 
people who break the law; they attract sanitary nuisances. They lead to 
water hazards.