# None
## `e2a8b42dc98cabaec9a32a92ffcacdc9`
`Mr. BLUNT â€” 23 May 2008`

---


Mr. BLUNT. Madam Speaker, pursuant to Republican Earmark Guidance, I 
submit the following information.

Requesting Member: Congressman Roy Blunt.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Defense-Wide--RDT&E, Ballistic Missile Defense Terminal 
Defense Segment.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: LaBarge Inc. (subcontractor of 
Raytheon).

Address of Requesting Entity: 1505 Maiden Lane, Joplin, MO 64801.

Description of Request: $10 million is included in this bill for key 
components of the Short Range Ballistic Missile Defense, a Stunner 
interceptor used by both the United States and Israel. The use of 
taxpayer funds is justified because the need for this capability was 
demonstrated during Israel's conflict in Lebanon in 2006 and remains a 
top concern for U.S. troops deployed around the world. David's Sling is 
a joint U.S./Israeli program developing the affordable Stunner 
interceptor for use by both countries.

Requesting Member: Congressman Roy Blunt.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Army--RDT&E, Medical Advanced Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Missouri State University and 
Crosslink.

Address of Requesting Entity: 524 N. Booneville Ave. Springfield, MO 
65806.

Description of Request: $6 million is included in this bill to 
develop a localized drug delivery system for use on amputee and burn 
victims who are wounded in combat. Effective localized controlled drug 
delivery will provide amputees and burn victims the needed pain and 
healing therapeutics while minimizing the required dosage because the 
drug will be delivered locally and not systemically. This will aid in 
reducing chances of developing drug resistance and dependency both of 
which reduce healing time and reduce quality of life. The use of 
taxpayer funds is justified because there are an estimated 20,000 
injuries in Iraq and many amputees are not wearing their prosthetic 
device due to discomfort resulting from inflammation and infection.

Requesting Member: Congressman Roy Blunt.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Army--RDT&E, Medical Advanced Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Missouri State University and St. 
Johns Health System.

Address of Requesting Entity: 524 N. Booneville Ave. Springfield, MO 
65806.

Description of Request: $6 million is included in this bill to fund 
technology to allow for the improved ability to quickly treat soldiers 
who sustain severe eye injuries in the field. Currently, the time from 
injury to treatment for eye injuries in the Iraqi conflict averages 
more than 18 hours due to the lack of field-ready, easy-to-use eye 
injury stabilization materials. The use of taxpayer funds is justified 
because many of the injuries suffered by our military personnel serving 
in the Middle East are a result of lED (improvised explosive device) 
mortar and direct action injuries. Between October 2001 and June 2006, 
over 1,100 troops with combat eye trauma were evacuated from overseas 
military operations, making serious eye wounds one of the most common 
types of injury experienced in current U.S. conflicts. Walter Reed Army 
Medical Center feels strongly that the project has considerable 
military relevance and plans to collaborate in the program.
