---
---

# UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `e2b5723779ed6134e08cbc987e774e71`
`Mr. NEAL — 22 July 2010`

---


Mr. NEAL. I thank Mr. McDermott.

I stand in full support of this emergency legislation that will 
restore the safety net to millions of American families. Those families 
have been waiting for this relief since June. Their faith in us has 
been tested, but today we are going to extend the help that they need.

I have spoken many times on this floor of the legendary mayor of 
Boston, James Michael Curley, a great orator. Curley spoke with great 
empathy about the forgotten man, and that's whom we're talking about 
today, the forgotten man and the forgotten woman, those individuals who 
have worked hard and played by the rules and have every reason to 
believe that America ought to provide them assistance in this difficult 
time.

He also would suggest that, in simplicity, the great ally of our 
civilization was a full stomach. We need to be reminded of that grim 
economic statistic for those who are outside the mainstream.

Let me also remind our friends here on the other side, in record 
time, in October of 2008, this Congress came to the aid of Wall Street. 
It didn't take us long to embrace the Troubled Asset Relief Program of 
George Bush to keep standing many of those institutions that helped 
create the problem that we currently find ourselves in.

There are millions of people, those who have served in Vietnam, those 
who have served in Afghanistan, and those who have served in Iraq and 
other theaters around the world, who are struggling in this economy. 
America is about building a community, a place where no one wants to be 
abandoned and no one wants to be left behind.



The great bounty of God's work has been to ensure that people in 
America, regardless of their political differences, have enough to eat 
and shelter. This opportunity to extend unemployment benefits for the 
American people ought to meet this moment, and I urge adoption of this 
measure.