---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `e2d4ee3adf7088d6660b8d0de883c17e`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, in keeping with my practice of deferring 
to Presidents when it comes to executive branch nominations, I voted to 
confirm LTG Douglas Lute to serve as Assistant to the President and 
Deputy National Security Adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan. He is a 
competent officer with a history of service to this Nation. However, I 
am deeply concerned that rather than changing course in Iraq, the 
President is merely rearranging the bureaucracy in the White House.

The administration needs to better coordinate the U.S. Government's 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. I am


pleased that Lieutenant General Lute has acknowledged that the U.S. 
military alone cannot stabilize Iraq and that enhanced efforts by other 
agencies of the Federal Government are needed.

However, I am skeptical that this new position will have a 
significant impact given that the President still refuses to admit that 
there is no military solution to the situation in Iraq. Until the 
President recognizes the need to redeploy our troops from Iraq and seek 
international assistance in promoting a political resolution, I am 
afraid that Lieutenant General Lute's efforts will simply contribute to 
more of the same failed policy. I will continue working to redeploy our 
troops from Iraq so that we can devote greater resources to our top 
national security priority--going after the terrorists who attacked us 
on 9/11 and their allies.