---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e2e274833ecfe24425205c81711eaaf0`
`Mr. McCAIN — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. It is worth spending a few moments to discuss this 
editorial because it is not often that one of America's flagship papers 
declares as lost a war which 160,000 brave American soldiers are trying 
mightily to win.

Beginning with its first line in this remarkable editorial, ''It is 
time for the United States to leave Iraq without any more delay than 
the Pentagon needs to organize an orderly exit,'' the Times editorial 
advocates a precipitous withdrawal of American forces. It does so 
conceding that such a withdrawal is likely to increase the chaos and 
bloodshed in Iraq, not decrease it, and that a redeployment could 
prompt ''reprisals, further ethnic cleansing, even genocide.'' A 
remarkable statement that a newspaper that frequently calls for the 
United States to bring its national power to bear for moral purposes, 
not the least of which in the Darfur region of Sudan, could so easily 
throw out consequences that are so terrible.

In the opinion of the New York Times, apparently genocide is not 
worth fighting to prevent, nor is it worth fighting to prevent 
''potentially destabilizing refugee flows'' hitting Jordan and Syria or 
to stop Iran from filling the power vacuum left behind by our departure 
or disrupting a likely terrorist sanctuary. No, none of these things 
are worth fighting for in the Times' opinion because it has concluded 
that ''keeping troops in Iraq will only make things worse.''

This misunderstanding clouds the entirety of the editorial. The Times 
appears to believe that because things have been mismanaged since 2003 
and because violence remains at unacceptably high levels, things simply 
can't get worse, so we should withdraw and at least save ourselves. But 
this is sheer folly. Things in Iraq, however bad they have been and 
remain, could get far, far worse. Anyone who recalls Cambodia or Rwanda 
or any of the other places that have seen killing on a massive scale 
knows just how terrible violence can be when it spirals out of control.

The consequences of a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq include 
emboldening terrorists, inducing a wider regional war, fanning the 
flames of a Sunni-Shia conflict, putting millions of lives at risk, and 
destabilizing an area key to America's strategic interests.

The editorial States bluntly, ''Whatever [the President's] cause was, 
it is lost,'' because ''additional military forces poured into the 
Baghdad region have failed to change anything.'' That is a remarkable 
statement, a remarkable statement. ''Additional military forces poured 
into the Baghdad region have failed to change anything.'' I just came 
back from a visit. I know I have been pilloried for saying that there 
has been progress in Iraq. Well, they can pillory General Petraeus and 
they can pillory their own reporters who have clearly pointed out that 
there have been measurements of success--and a long, long way to go, 
but the fact is, there has been some success.

The fact is, in Baghdad, as General Petraeus attests, it is 
demonstrably untrue that additional military forces poured into the 
Baghdad region have failed to change anything. In Baghdad, U.S. 
military and Iraqi forces are establishing joint security stations and 
patrolling the city together to manage violence. Since January, 
sectarian violence has fallen. The total number of car bombings and 
suicide attacks has declined in May and June, and the number of Iraqis 
coming forward with information is rising.

The President offered an assessment today. There are some areas of 
success. There are some areas of no movement, and there are some areas 
of failure, particularly where the Iraqi Government is concerned. We 
should know that. In an area south of Bagdad, commanders report 
increasing numbers of local tribes siding with the coalition against 
al-Qaida and similar effects north of the city.

This editorial makes the breathtaking assertion that the war in Iraq 
is ''a dangerous diversion from the life-and-death struggle against 
terrorists.'' Someone from the editorial board must have neglected to 
inform our troops on the ground, who, when I visited them last week in 
Baghdad and Anbar, spent several hours briefing me on their 
counterterrorism operations. The editors must have also neglected to 
speak with General Petraeus, who has called Iraq ''the central front of 
al-Qaida's global campaign.''

In case terrorists remain in Iraq and seek to plan attacks outside 
the country, the Times has an answer. The United States can set up 
bases in Kuwait and Qatar and even in northern Iraq because:




 . . . the Pentagon needs enough force to stage effective 


 raids and airstrikes against terrorist forces in Iraq.


Yet I wonder whether the Times has thought through any of the 
logistical issues associated with waging a counterterrorism effort from 
a neighboring country. Do we send American counterterrorism teams into 
Iraq for these operations? Do they remain in place? How are they 
supplied? We have seen for 3/1/2/ years that such efforts are much less 
successful when our troops are confined to forward operating bases than 
when our soldiers are deployed among the population, in the cities. I 
can hardly imagine how difficult it would be to wage the same struggle 
not from forward operating bases but from a neighboring nation.

These troops would not be needed to help stop an incipient civil war 
because, as the Times tells us, ''that war is raging, right now.'' Iraq 
may fragment into separate states, the editorial goes on, but 
''American troops are not going to stop that from happening.''

Well, a couple days ago, Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari 
explained that the dangers of a quick American pullout from Iraq could 
include a civil war. I suspect the foreign minister means a real, full-
scale civil war, one that dwarfs the violence taking place today. I 
also suspect the foreign minister understands there is no clear 
delineation between sectarian violence, whether or not it constitutes 
civil war, and terrorist activity. Al-Qaida bombed the mosque in Samara 
in a deliberate attempt to foment sectarian violence. Zarqawi wrote of 
his plans to target the Shia before his own death. Walking away from 
Iraq would not simply leave an ongoing sectarian struggle simmering 
away at its own pace, sealed off from the world. Civil war in Iraq has 
real implications for American national security interests.

After the withdrawal prompts the terrible consequences that even the 
New York Times foresees, it will be incumbent upon the United States to 
ameliorate the fallout. This, the editorial page tells us, can be done 
by talking to Iran--by talking to Iran--to pressure it to ''allow 
Shiites in southern Iraq to develop their own independent future.''

At a time when Iranian operatives are already moving weapons, 
training fighters, providing resources, and helping plan operations to 
kill American soldiers and damage our efforts to bring stability to 
Iraq, I think it is a pretty safe bet that Tehran will not be open to 
many of Washington's entreaties following a withdrawal. The much more 
likely course is that Iran will comfortably step into the power vacuum 
left by a U.S. redeployment. When it does so, though, the Times would 
have Washington ''persuade Sunni powers like Syria not to intervene on 
behalf of Sunni Iraqis.'' My


friends, that would be a tough sell, to put it mildly, if the Iranians 
are in the regional ascendance.

Perhaps the root of the New York Times' misconception of the war in 
Iraq is crystallized by a sentence in its final paragraph. It expresses 
fierce opposition to ''allowing Mr. Bush to drag out this war without 
end on purpose.'' ''Allowing Mr. Bush to drag out this war without end 
on purpose.'' I think all of us would oppose any war without end or 
purpose, but this does not describe the conflict in Iraq. We remain in 
Iraq to bring enough security to allow the Government to function in a 
way that will protect the people of Iraq and, as a result, the national 
interests of the United States. That is the purpose and the end goal of 
this war, as I see it.

But do not take my word for it, Mr. President. Ask the thousands of 
brave men and women who are putting themselves in harm's way every day. 
I had the privilege to once again visit many of them in Iraq last week, 
and I can tell my colleagues they understand the purpose. I wish I 
could say the same of our journalistic friends in New York.

Mr. President, I wish to remind my colleagues about the statements 
that have been made by various people who are experts on Iraq and are 
respected national security advisers, including people such as Brent 
Scowcroft and Henry Kissinger, and many others who have been involved 
in this issue, many of whom, like General Zinni, were opposed from the 
beginning to the conflict but now believe setting a date for withdrawal 
will be a disaster of monumental consequences.

I hope the editorial page of the New York Times would listen to some 
of those people. For example, Henry Kissinger, who recently said that 
setting a date for withdrawal will lead to chaos in the region; 
including people such as General Zinni, who had opposed our 
intervention in Iraq to start with, who said setting a date for 
withdrawal would have catastrophic consequences.

I have seen some interesting op-ed pieces in my time. I have rarely 
seen one that is farther off the mark than the editorial in last 
Sunday's New York Times. I am convinced that if we pursued that course, 
as the editorial leads: that the war is lost, and it is time for the 
United States to leave Iraq without any more delay, and the Pentagon 
needs to organize an orderly exit--is a remarkable statement by one of 
the largest newspapers in America.

Henry Kissinger--I think we can find wisdom in several suggestions 
put forward by him. But we also should heed his words, as well as many 
others. He is correct to say: ''precipitate withdrawal would produce a 
disaster,'' one that ''would not end the war but shift it to other 
areas, like Lebanon or Jordan or Saudi Arabia,'' produce greater 
violence among Iraqi factions and ''embolden radical Islamism'' around 
the world.

My friends, I hope the editorial writers for the New York Times would 
pay attention to Ayman al-Zawahiri, al-Qaida's deputy chief, who said 
that the United States is merely delaying our ''inevitable'' defeat in 
Iraq, and that ''the Mujahideen of Islam in Iraq of the caliphate and 
jihad are advancing with steady steps towards victory.''

Their target is not Iraq. Pay attention to their words. Their target 
is the United States of America.

Recall the plan laid out in a letter from Zawahiri to Abu Mus'ab al-
Zarqawi before his death. That plan is to take shape in four stages: 
establish a caliphate in Iraq, extend the jihad wave to the secular 
countries neighboring Iraq, clash with Israel--none of which will 
commence until the completion of stage one--expel the Americans from 
Iraq.

If the New York Times editorial board does not pay attention to the 
words of people like me and General Scowcroft and General Zinni and Dr. 
Kissinger, and many other people who are experts, I would hope they 
would pay attention to the words of Zarqawi, Zawahiri, and others who 
have made very clear what their intentions are in Iraq.

Mr. President, at this time I yield the floor and ask unanimous 
consent that Senator Levin offer the wounded warrior legislation or 
whatever he wants.