---
---

# FIND WAYS TO COME TOGETHER ON IRAQ
## `e2f0babf5fd9dfb1dc5d0bc4ad19bd1e`
`Mr. BISHOP of New York â€” 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. BISHOP of New York. I thank Mr. Israel for yielding.

I want to pick up on a comment that my friend from Connecticut just 
made with respect to how we should deal with the recommendations of the 
Iraq Study Group. You suggested that we bring those recommendations 
here and we discuss them and endorse them. And I think that the model 
is the 9/11 Commission. It was a bipartisan commission that issued a 
unanimous set of recommendations, which in the main we have acted upon 
here in this Chamber. The Iraq Study Group was a bipartisan group that 
issued a unanimous set of recommendations. And I believe that they are 
ones that we can galvanize around, and I believe that they make good 
sense. They perhaps don't give all of us everything that we would want 
on either side of the aisle, but they do represent a way to move 
forward. And I believe that if we were to bring those recommendations 
here, I believe they would attract majority support in this Chamber, 
and perhaps that could then be used as a means to moving with the 
administration, who I think now has also endorsed the recommendations 
of the Study Group.

Initially they seemed to reject them, or at least dismiss them, but I 
think now, as time has passed and as the situation on the ground has 
continued to evolve, they now recognize that they do have merit, that 
they do have legitimacy. And they also speak to several, if not all, of 
the shared principles that we are discussing here this evening that 
come out of the Center Aisle Caucus. So I thank you for making that 
suggestion, and hopefully we can carry forward with that.