# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `e2f4d8710ada5097cd93ef7c443000d1`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I appreciate the question and 
description from the Senator from Massachusetts. In fact, it is clearly 
one element--one very dramatic element--of the Government acting 
wrongly: deporting someone who had every legal right to be here in this 
country--making that mistake, and then, realizing they made a mistake, 
are now trying to find that individual whose life has been turned 
upside down.

In the process of doing that, under the amendment of the Senator from 
Iowa, they do not even have a chance to go to court. So the human faces 
we are talking about here are real. That is not about terrorism.

Now, let me give you another example. The Senator from Massachusetts 
gave a very vivid one. Let me give you another example of what happens 
when we do not permit basic due process as a part of our law.

This amendment would eliminate judicial review for all visa 
revocations unnecessarily, and it unduly expands the already broad 
discretionary authority of the executive branch. Let me


give you an example--a different case. A foreign government that wants 
to rein in one of their dissidents provides false information to the 
U.S. consulate that leads the consul to revoke the visa. This is 
someone who is speaking against maybe a totalitarian regime, a 
dictatorship, people who are oppressing people's human rights, but they 
are here in the United States. They got a visa, and they are here 
speaking out. That government wants to make sure that person can no 
longer speak out, so they give false information to the consul, and the 
consul reviews it and makes a factual determination: Do you know what. 
This looks right. Let's revoke the visa.

That person, that dissident, struggling to make a difference in the 
lives of people in that country--we want to see people like that 
challenging their own systems; we want to see people like that fighting 
in their own countries so we never have to send our people abroad--that 
person does not even have one chance to make the case in a court of law 
that what is being said is false.

Exposing individuals in this country to such arbitrary and capricious 
action is un-American. We should be striving for more balance and more 
transparency, not less.

Let me say there is another case, a case decided here in the United 
States in June of last year, where a U.S. Federal judge issued an order 
soundly rejecting the Government's contentions against an individual--
the same type of case that would not, under this amendment, have access 
to this type of judicial review where this Federal judge determined 
that the Government was wrong, the individual was right.

What was the individual saying? He was saying his point of view, 
which separated him from the administration's point of view. Because it 
separated him from the administration's point of view, they revoked his 
visa. The judge held the decision was not a due authority, a use for 
the revocation of the visa, and that person was allowed to stay simply 
because they were expressing their points of view different from this 
administration.

Is that what we want to do? Eliminate the possibility for someone to 
be able to go to court and say: ''I am being hushed because I have a 
different point of view. My visa is being revoked with not one chance 
to go to court''?

By the way, finally, if we are going to talk about terrorism, if I 
have a terrorist in my possession, under other provisions of law I do 
not want to deport them. I want to arrest them. I want to throw them in 
jail. I want to make sure they do not get out of the country to do harm 
back to this country. Why would I want to deport them? I want to arrest 
them. I want to jail them under other provisions of law. I want to 
prosecute them. I do not want to let them go free so they can try to do 
harm again to the United States.

This amendment actually works to the opposite of our national 
security interests. I urge my colleagues to oppose it.

Now, let me speak more broadly about the overall immigration effort. 
Since I have already heard some of the commentaries on the floor, I 
think it is important for us to have a framework of where this 
discussion, I hope, will go in a civilized fashion that understands the 
better angels within us.

From the congressional district I had the honor of representing for 
over 13 years in the House of Representatives, one can see the Statue 
of Liberty. You can almost touch it. Ellis Island has been a gateway to 
opportunity for millions of new Americans. For me, it is a shining 
example of the power of the American dream, a place that launched 
millions down their own road to success.

As Americans listen to this debate, I hope they understand and are 
honest with themselves--whether their family was part of the men and 
women who made the voyage on the Mayflower or part of the millions who 
stepped off of Ellis Island or part of those who were brought to 
this Nation against their will or, if like my own parents, they came to 
this country fleeing tyranny and searching for freedom--we all have a 
connection to immigration.


America has a proud tradition as a nation of immigrants and a nation 
of laws. History is replete with examples of the United States of 
America being a welcoming Nation. But, unfortunately, very often the 
public dialog through the years has been less than welcoming. Over the 
decades, the influx of immigrants of various ethnicities has caused 
concerns and, in many cases, heated comments against such immigrants to 
our Nation. In some cases, there were even laws enacted to limit or ban 
certain ethnic groups from being able to come to the land of 
opportunity. Let's remember some of this history so we do not repeat it 
again in these debates.

Before the American Revolution, Founding Father Benjamin Franklin 
wrote of the influx of German immigrants to Philadelphia:




 Those who come hither are generally the most stupid of 


 their own nation.


Henry J. Gardner, the Governor of Massachusetts in the middle of the 
19th century, saw the Irish as a ''horde of foreign barbarians.''

In 1882, Congress enacted the Chinese Exclusion Act, which made it 
nearly impossible for additional Chinese to enter America. The law was 
not repealed until 1943, in the middle of World War II, when the United 
States and China were allies against Japan.

In the early 1900s, H.G. Wells, a British novelist, stated that the 
arrival of Eastern Europeans, Jews, and Italians would cause a ''huge 
dilution of the American people with profoundly ignorant foreign 
peasants.''

Congressman Albert Johnson, coauthor of the Johnson-Reed Immigration 
Act of 1924, which severely restricted immigrants from Southern and 
Eastern Europe, and entirely prohibited East Asians and Asian Indians, 
stated that:




 Our capacity to maintain our cherished institutions stands 


 diluted by a stream of alien blood, with all its inherited 


 misconceptions respecting the relationships of the governing 


 power to governed. . . . The day of unalloyed welcome to all 


 peoples, the day of indiscriminate acceptance of all races, 


 has definitely ended.


Finally--to give you a sense of some of these things that have been 
part of our past--a 1925 report of the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce 
stated that Mexicans are suitable for agricultural work ''due to their 
crouching and bending habits . . . , while the white is physically 
unable to adapt himself to them.''

That was in 1925.

These are just a few statements from the past that have taken issue 
with and criticized the relatives and forefathers of various segments 
of our Nation's population today.

We must all remember that just in the last Congress the House of 
Representatives passed H.R. 4437, better known as the Sensenbrenner 
bill. Beyond the heated rhetoric that existed during the debate on that 
legislation, the bill itself was shortsighted and even more mean 
spirited and would have made felons out of anyone who was here in an 
undocumented status. That bill would have also criminalized citizens of 
the United States through a much broader definition of smuggling that 
would have allowed the Government to prosecute almost any American who 
had regular contact with undocumented immigrants. Luckily, that did not 
pass.

But today we continue to hear across the landscape of the country 
hateful rhetoric used to polarize and divide our country on this issue. 
But we must never allow ourselves to buy into the rhetoric. We must 
never subscribe to the policies of fear and division, driven by 
xenophobia, nativism, and racism.

The responsibility is on all of us--not just on Members of Congress, 
but everyone in this Nation. We must reject the rhetoric of hatred, 
division, and polarization. We must demand a comprehensive immigration 
policy that does not denigrate or demonize, but is tough, smart, fair, 
and humane.

However, on this issue, we must be completely honest with ourselves. 
Our country's immigration system is unarguably broken. In light of 
these failures, we must enact tough, smart, and comprehensive 
immigration reform that reflects current economic and social realities, 
respects the core values, I hope, of family unity and fundamental 
fairness, and upholds our tradition as a nation of immigrants.

In the absence of Federal legislation, what is happening is many 
local governments in my State of New Jersey and, for that matter, 
across the Nation are passing ordinances to address issues surrounding 
undocumented immigration in their communities. Unfortunately, many of 
these ordinances


violate constitutional equal protection guarantees and create divisions 
in communities that did not exist.

In addition to the moral imperative, our society would greatly 
benefit economically if we enacted comprehensive immigration reform. 
Such reform would allow undocumented immigrants to come out of the 
shadows and fully pay their taxes, ensuring accurate census counts, 
which translates into equitable funding levels for programs and 
schools. Additionally, we can reduce law enforcement demands since the 
need for day laborers, forged documents, and driver's licenses, along 
with the use of exploitation and human trafficking would largely be 
shut down.

As to those who don't come forward when such an opportunity is 
presented, we would be focused on asking: Why are they not coming 
forward? We would be able to determine who is here to pursue the 
American dream versus who is here to destroy it.

We need to aggressively curtail unauthorized crossings at the border, 
protect both undocumented immigrants and American workers from 
corporations exploiting undocumented labor, and provide a pathway for 
immigrants to earn--and I repeat: earn--permanent residency in order to 
ensure our immigration system is safe, legal, orderly, and fair to all.

Our goal should be neither open borders nor closed borders but smart 
borders. The specter of terrorism in a post-September 11 world creates 
an even greater imperative for us to succeed in this endeavor. The 
underlying bill has a whole host of triggers that go to the very heart 
of those elements.

We have all seen some of the consequences. We have seen lawlessness 
along the borders. Crime in our border communities is increasing and 
overwhelming local law enforcement's ability to address these 
challenges. So-called coyotes, or human smugglers, charge thousands of 
dollars to bring people into this country, creating a multimillion 
dollar industry for organized criminal organizations to exploit and 
fuel their other illegal activities. In fact, several reports have 
indicated there is more money in smuggling these undocumented 
immigrants into our Nation than smuggling drugs.

However, history proves it is not enough to rely on enforcement 
alone, even though I am totally for the enforcement. Over the past two 
decades, the Federal Government has tripled--tripled--the number of 
Border Patrol agents and increased the enforcement budget tenfold--
tenfold. Yet, despite tripling the Border Patrol and increasing the 
budget tenfold, these efforts have yet to stop those who have either 
crossed the border or overstayed their visas. So it is about border 
protection, but it is also about a more comprehensive effort to make 
sure you deal with the push-and-pull factors of immigration.

Securing our borders is the first step to ensure an orderly, fair, 
and smart immigration system, but by no means is it adequate in 
isolation. We must also crack down on companies that illegally hire 
undocumented workers--something that is long overdue. I know under the 
Clinton administration, employers were held accountable for hiring 
undocumented workers, as 417 businesses were cited for immigration 
violations in 1999 alone. In contrast, a mere three--three--employers 
were issued notices of intent to fine by the Bush administration in 
2004 for similar violations, making it 22 times more likely for an 
American to be killed by a strike of lightning in an average year than 
prosecuted for such labor violations.

So much for enforcing the existing law.

What happened in the span of those 5 years? What happened? Did 
companies suddenly decide to start abiding by the law by not hiring 
undocumented immigrants? No. The truth of the matter is, similar to 
border enforcement, this administration made a conscious decision to 
look the other way in order to once again serve the interests of 
corporate America to the detriment of average American citizens.


That is why I support stronger immigration enforcement not only at 
the borders but at the workplace. Unscrupulous companies that 
intentionally hire undocumented immigrants do so because they know they 
can exploit these people without fear of retribution. They know this 
because undocumented immigrants are forced to hide in the shadows of 
society and subsequently have no avenues to report labor abuses. Not 
only does this hurt the immigrant being exploited, it also directly 
impacts American citizens who must compete in the market with exploited 
labor. We must immediately end these abuses and in doing so create an 
equal playing field to ensure that the wages, benefits and health and 
labor standards of the American worker are not undercut.

While securing our borders and enforcing strengthened workplace 
employment laws will enable us to regulate the influx of new 
immigrants, it does nothing to solve our current dilemma of an 
estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants who currently reside in 
the United States. That is why our immigration policy must be about 
more than simply enforcement. It must be about providing a safe, 
orderly, timely, and legal process that deals with the economic 
realities of our time.

So in order to make our immigration system overall workable, we must 
be practical, fair, and humane in dealing with the estimated 12 million 
undocumented immigrants living in the United States. To do otherwise 
would require the most massive roundup and deportation of people in the 
history of the world--in the history of the world. I believe this is 
both highly unlikely and impractical on many levels, including due to 
both budgetary and economic impacts on the Nation and its economy.

Such a mass deportation of the undocumented population, even assuming 
20 percent could leave voluntarily if such a policy was enacted, would 
cost us over $200 billion over a 5-year period, according to the Center 
for American Progress. That is not going to happen. So fully securing 
our borders is impossible unless efforts to include a temporary guest 
worker program and a path to earn residence for undocumented immigrants 
is part of the overall reform.

This solution will encourage immigrants to come out of the shadows 
and legalize their status. By doing so, we will learn who is here to 
seek the American dream versus who is here to destroy it through 
criminal or terrorist acts. Most of the people who cross our borders 
come looking for work, as many of our ancestors did. These immigrants 
contribute to our economy, provide for their families, and want a 
better life for their children.

Let me say I am, first and foremost, in favor of hiring any 
American--any American--who is willing to do any job that is available 
in this country today or tomorrow, but let's remember the jobs we are 
talking about. The fruit you had for breakfast was picked by the hands 
and bent back of an immigrant laborer. The hotel room and bathroom you 
use in travels through the country is likely cleaned with bended knee 
by an immigrant worker. The chicken you had for dinner yesterday was 
likely plucked by the cut-up hands of an immigrant laborer. If you have 
an infirmed loved one, their daily necessities are probably being 
tended to by the steady hands and warm hearts of an immigrant aide. Let 
us remember that.

So we have to create an equal playing field to ensure that the wages, 
benefits, health, and labor standards of the American worker are not 
undercut. But it is also in our best interests to have these workers 
participate and contribute to our society, especially when we had a 
4.5-percent unemployment rate in April of this year and a declining 
ratio of American workers to retirees.

By coupling enhanced enforcement efforts with new immigration and 
labor laws, we will not only regulate how workers come into the country 
but finally give our border and law enforcement agencies a fighting 
chance to fulfill their duty.

Now, much of what the underlying bill does meets some of these 
challenges, and I respect those elements. But I wish to talk about one 
very compelling issue that I believe it does not meet: the importance 
of family. I said throughout the negotiations that were had, with a 
massive, complex bill such as this one, the devil is in the details. 
There are a number of details in this deal that would create an unfair 
and, in my mind, impractical immigration system, undercutting the more 
sensible provisions.



This is especially true when it comes to the issue of family. The 
deal struck virtually does away with a provision for family 
reunification which has been the bedrock of our immigration policy 
throughout our history. This idea not only changes the spirit of our 
immigration policy; it also emphasizes family structure, and all 
without a single hearing on the issue of family and our immigration 
system by the Senate Judiciary Committee, either in the 109th or the 
110th Congress.

Under this bill, they change the fundamental values of our 
immigration policy by making an advanced degree or skill in a highly 
technical profession the most important criteria--the most important 
criteria--for a visa. This Nation has been built by immigrants who came 
here to achieve success, but the deal tilts toward immigrants whose 
success stories are already written. They are already written.

Family reunification will be deemphasized under this deal, serving to 
tear families apart. From a moral perspective, this undermines the 
family values I hear so many--in different contexts--so many of my 
colleagues talk about all the time.

As the late Pope John Paul II said:




 The church in America must be a vigilant advocate, 


 defending against any unjust restriction of the natural right 


 of individual persons to move freely within their own Nation 


 and from one Nation to another. Attention must be called to 


 the rights of migrants and their families and to respect for 


 their human dignity.


Practically speaking, a breakdown of family structure often leads to 
a breakdown of social stability. I took it to heart when President Bush 
said: ''Family values don't end at the Rio Grande,'' but this 
agreement, similar to his proposal before it, belies those words.

Yet here we are with a piece of legislation which the White House 
promoted that undermines the very essence of that. Even under a new 
point structure that is envisioned under the bill, it seems to me that 
the essence of family should be given more weight and points within the 
context of a whole new process of how we are going to move our 
immigration system forward. Family, I would hope, even under a new 
system, is a critical value, in our country.


I would like to take a little time to get into some of the details of 
this agreement and how they would impact families.

Under current law, foreign-born parents of U.S. citizens are exempt 
from green card caps when applying for legal permanent residency as 
they fall in the immediate relatives category. Now, remember, this is 
someone--a U.S. citizen already--a U.S. citizen or a U.S. permanent 
resident who has a right--who has a right--to claim their relative. In 
this case, I wish to talk about parents. Unfortunately, the agreement 
removes these individuals from the immediate relative category and sets 
an annual cap for green cards for parents of U.S. citizens at 40,000. 
Last year, 120,000 visas were given to such parents, and the annual 
average number of green cards issued over the past 5 years to parents 
is 90,000, so this bill would slash required green cards by more than 
half for a U.S. citizen to be reunified with their mother or father. So 
we are automatically creating a new backlog, even though the bill is 
intended to end such family backlogs.

Another area that would be negatively impacted under the deal is the 
spouses and minor children of legal permanent residents of the United 
States. The bill before us does not lift the visa cap on the spouses 
and minor children of lawful permanent residents; it actually lowers 
it, ensuring that backlogs continue indefinitely. The separation is not 
only immoral in my mind, but it exacts an economic toll, as lawful 
immigrants who are productive members of society move to rejoin their 
families. Moreover, unification with immediate family members gives 
rise to an undesirable incentive to break the law and live in the 
United States illegally. Families want to migrate to each other, and 
that is a natural, human instinct. We undermine that in this respect.

Now, the so-called ''grand bargain'' also moves us to a point-based 
immigration system which would turn current immigration on its head--a 
system that hasn't received any hearings by the Judiciary Committee. 
Yet, in the agreement, we are moving to a point system that is geared 
toward people with degrees who are highly skilled or educated. Fine. We 
can have people who are highly skilled and educated as part of the 
equation, but in my mind it shouldn't ultimately undermine dramatically 
the ability of families to have a fighting chance. In fact, in the 
point system that is contained in the bill, families would receive no 
points at all--no points at all, none--unless the applicant has 
obtained at least 55 points through other elements: employment, 
education, language. So much for family values under that system, in my 
mind.

In addition, if the applicant meets the 55-point threshold, they 
would be eligible for a maximum of 10--a maximum of 10--additional 
points; that is out of 100 maximum points. I guess that some who preach 
family values don't believe that family should count for more than 10 
percent--10 percent.

Now, this legislation also curtails the ability of American citizens 
today, permanent residents, to petition for their families to be 
reunified here in America.

As I mentioned earlier, there is a family backlog of people who have 
applied for legal permanent residency who are claimed by U.S. citizens. 
This legislation, as currently drafted, does away with several of the 
family categories such as adult children of a U.S. citizen and lawful 
permanent residents and siblings of citizens. These categories will be 
grandfathered in and dealt with as part of clearing the backlog during 
the first 8 years but only if you filed your application before May 1 
of 2005. What is the consequence of that? The consequence of that is 
over 800,000 people who have played by the rules, applied under the 
normal process, didn't come across the border, didn't violate any law, 
did the right thing, that all of those who did all the right things but 
applied after that date, will not be cleared as part of the family 
backlog. They lose their chance under this law.

More importantly, it vitiates--it takes away--the right of the U.S. 
citizen to have them claimed because they lose it. They have a petition 
pending under existing law, and yet that petition is gone with the 
flash of this bill.

So the legislation, as currently drafted, says that if you legally 
apply for a visa after May 1, 2005, you have to compete under an 
entirely new system. It is an arbitrary date that was picked out of the 
thin air.

Let's think of how fundamentally unfair that is. Imagine you are a 
lawful, permanent U.S. resident. You have fought for your country, you 
have shed blood for your country, and in some cases, you may have even 
died for your country. In fact, a noncitizen, a legal permanent 
resident of the United States, Marine LCpl Jose Antonio Gutierrez, 
originally of Guatemala, was the very first, the very first U.S. combat 
casualty in the war with Iraq. Had he not been a combat casualty under 
this bill, he would not have been allowed to claim his family. If this 
bill moves forward the way it is, these legal permanent residents are 
also not only--there are thousands of them in the Armed Forces of the 
United States, and they are protecting our airports, our seaports, and 
our ports. They risk their daily lives in Afghanistan, Iraq, and other 
places around the world to protect us here at home, yet we would do 
away with their right to petition to have their sister or their brother 
come join and live with them in America. Under this bill, you lose that 
right if you file after May 1, 2005. It is hard to imagine that one 
would have that right taken away from them.

Here is another case for you to consider. You are a U.S. citizen. You 
have paid your taxes. You may have served your Nation. You attend 
church. You make a good living. You are a good citizen. You have 
petitioned to have your adult child come to America, but you did so 
after the date of May 1, 2005. Under this bill, that U.S. citizen loses 
their right. However, those who are undocumented in the country after 
May 1 of 2005, they actually get a benefit under the bill. So if you 
obey the law, follow the rules, do all the right things, you are a U.S. 
citizen, paid your taxes, maybe even served your country in the Armed 
Forces, doing everything you should do, you lose your right to claim 
your relative under the existing law and be part of the backlog, but 
the person who came in an undocumented


fashion over the border, they actually will get a benefit as of January 
1, 2007. It seems to me that the legal permanent resident, the U.S. 
citizen, should have at least the same date as those who have not 
followed the law and the rules. It is hard to imagine, but it is true.

So these are a few of the shortcomings contained in the bill we are 
moving forward. This deal would have prevented my own parents, a 
carpenter and a seamstress, from coming to this country. They wouldn't 
have qualified under this point system. I would like to think that they 
and others whom I have heard about around this Chamber--I have heard so 
many stories from my colleagues in the Senate and formerly in the 
House, talking about their proud history.

Their parents would not have been eligible to come to this country 
under this bill. I would like to think that, on both sides of the 
aisle, they have contributed to the vitality of this Nation. I have 
listened to so many of the stories of our colleagues, and I know many 
of their parents never would have qualified to come to this country 
under this bill. It seems to me a new paradigm could have been 
structured where family values and reunification have more of a 
fighting chance than under the framework agreement that we consider.

The story of the legislation is not finished. We still have the 
historic opportunity this week to craft tough, smart, and fair 
immigration reform. It is my intention, starting, I hope, later today, 
through a series of amendments, to get to the heart of the issues I 
have mentioned, to change and to improve this deal. I know many of my 
colleagues are committed to the same issues of practicality, fairness, 
and family values, and I will work with them to turn this unworkable 
deal, in those respects, into sound policy we can all support.

As we have throughout our Nation's long and proud history, I believe 
we can create a pathway to the American dream for those who contribute 
to our Nation and allow them to fully participate in our economy and 
our society. As the President told Congress in this year's State of the 
Union speech: Let's have a serious, civil, and conclusive debate, so 
you can pass, and I can sign, comprehensive immigration reform into 
law.

It is a rare moment, but I agree with the President. Reform is long 
overdue. I want to just say that I have the greatest respect for the 
Senator from Massachusetts in his advocacy in this regard. I look 
forward to trying to--even though he may not be able to support some of 
these things as part of his commitment to a grand bargain--change it in 
a direction that we can all be proud of. But for him, we probably would 
not be on the Senate floor debating this issue today, or in the past, 
and I admire him greatly in that respect.

However we got here, from wherever we came, we know we are in the 
same boat together today as Americans, and together I hope we can make 
this journey a safe, orderly, and legal process that preserves and 
fulfills the American dream for all, that upholds the right of U.S. 
citizens to seek the reunification of their families. It takes those 
who serve our country and who are not U.S. citizens yet and gives us 
the right to say: You fought for America, you may have been wounded in 
the process. You have done everything we would want of any citizen. 
Your right to make a simple claim to have your family reunited for you 
will not be snuffed out by this legislation.

If we do that, this process deserves our respect. I hope this 
preserves the Constitution, as well as the due process of law that 
makes America worthy of fighting for and dying for--the Constitution 
and the Bill of Rights. When we seek to erode and undo it, we undermine 
the very essence of America's greatness. Those are our challenges in 
this debate and also our opportunities.

I yield the floor.