---
---

# None
## `e2fe782d1032d652bab4c7add9206c30`
`Mr. REID — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. REID. First, Mr. President, I extend my appreciation--I speak for 
all Senators, Democrats and Republicans--for the help we received this 
past 2 days from the employees who are working in the Capitol complex. 
Hundreds and hundreds of employees are here every day. They were here 
all night last night, most of them with little or no rest. This great 
facility would not operate every day but for them.

I am especially fond of and protective of the Capitol Police because 
I was one. But they are only the vessel about which I speak today, 
because it is not only the Capitol Police--and they worked long and 
hard--but it is the custodians, it is everyone including the valiant 
staff we have seated before the Presiding Officer. If we were asked--
any one of 100 Senators--how to get something done here without them, 
we couldn't do it. I have been here for a quarter of a century. I could 
be here for a quarter of a century more and still couldn't understand 
how their important work is done. Again, speaking for all Senators, I 
say to all who work here in the Capitol, we appreciate very much your 
time and effort.

I hope these past 2 days have shined a bright light on how important 
our work is here in the Senate. The American people have spoken so many 
different ways. We are, of course, faced every day with the never-
ending polls that this organization takes, that organization takes, and 
a lot of times there is some variance in those poll numbers--but not 
the last couple of months. The American public opposes the surge; they 
are opposed to the war; they want our valiant troops to come home.

As I wrote to the distinguished Republican leader yesterday:




 There are no more solemn decisions facing Members of 


 Congress than the conduct of war and the placing of troops in 


 harm's way.


Mr. President, that is true. This I sincerely believe.

Last night we had an event at 9 o'clock in the park. A Congressman by 
the name of Patrick Murphy spoke. He is from Pennsylvania. He was in 
Iraq, fighting as a soldier, a few years ago. He is now a Member of 
Congress. He talked about the need for us to bring home his comrades, 
the people who served with him. When he came home, 18 others, those 
other paratroopers in his unit, were dead.

What we are dealing with here is most important, most serious, and 
that is why we have been at it for 2 days nonstop. This is one of the 
most important decisions Members of Congress will ever be required to 
make, especially given the stakes involved, the stakes in the Middle 
East, in Iraq, for our military and for our national security.

We must proceed carefully and deliberately but proceed we must. The 
actions we take here can force a change, a change in President Bush's 
badly failed Iraq policy. That is what the American people expect the 
Senate to do, not simply to walk in lockstep as the President continues 
to walk down this disastrous path, but to finally change direction. 
That is our goal. That is what we must do and that is what the Levin-
Reed amendment does.

The amendment recognizes what General Petraeus and all the experts 
have said from the very beginning: There is no military solution to the 
chaos in Iraq. The amendment recognizes that the more U.S. military 
forces caught policing the civil war in this country we call Iraq, it 
is not to the interests of the United States and it is not in the 
interests of bringing stability to Iraq. The amendment recognizes we 
have an enduring interest in Iraq, and certainly in the Middle East, 
and we will not abandon those interests.

Levin-Reed gives the President no choice but to change course. Levin-
Reed requires the President take the steps to responsibly end the war 
that the country and our brave men and women in uniform demand and 
deserve. Bring them home. Let them come home. Levin-Reed sets a firm 
start date and a firm end date to transition the mission to begin the 
reduction of U.S. forces beginning 120 days after enactment, and to be 
completed by April 30, 2008.

Levin-Reed limits the United States mission to limit it to 
counterterror, training, and force protection operations after April 
30, and requires that the reduction in forces be part of a 
comprehensive diplomatic, regional, political, and economic effort, 
including the appointment of an international mediator.

I am compelled to defend the authors of this amendment. My friend, my 
counterpart, the distinguished Senator from Kentucky, ridiculed, 
belittled this amendment. Those of us who have served in the Senate 
know that any time Carl Levin deals with legislation, there is 
nothing--nothing--left for guesswork. Literally every ''i'' that should 
be dotted, every ''t'' that should be crossed, every comma that should 
be in a sentence, every semicolon that is placed there once in a while, 
will be in that legislation. I say this with all my friends here in the 
Senate, no one is a better legislator than Carl Levin. All who have 
served in the Senate have dealt with him. There is no way you can give 
him something and say, Is this OK with you, but he will say, No, I have 
to read it. After he reads it, he has to study it.

We all know what the Levin-Reed amendment talks about. What a 
combination. This good man from Michigan, who has devoted his life to 
public service and has spent his Senate career in the Armed Services 
Committee, teamed up with a graduate of West Point, Jack Reed, to whom 
we all look for advice militarily. How many times has he been to Iraq, 
8, 10 times?

Why is it important that Jack Reed went to Iraq? Because he served at 
West Point with many of the people over there now who are officers. He 
can get information there that none of the rest of us can get. What a 
combination. What does this combination say to the American people? 
That there must be an end date to what is going on in Iraq.

Their amendment, I repeat, says there must be redeployment starting 
in 120 days. That is pretty straightforward.

Mr. President, I will use leader time if my time runs out.

It also says that redeployment will start in 120 days; that on April 
30, 2008, the forces left in Iraq according to our military will be 
used for counterterrorism activities, training the Iraqis, and 
protecting our assets in Iraq. There is not much to speculate on what 
that


means. Of course, the military will set what parameters will be used in 
those different duties they have, but the military--that is what they 
do. So this amendment of Senators Levin and Reed is very 
understandable, it is direct and to the point. It is a simple, 
straightforward, responsible amendment. It strikes the right balance 
between military and diplomatic solutions. It allows our Nation to 
reduce its large combat footprint in Iraq and refocus on the enemy that 
attacked the Nation nearly 6 years ago.

For the American people, the surge has had far too long to determine 
whether it will work. Six months, 600 dead Americans, untold numbers 
wounded, $60 billion. This amendment allows our Nation to reduce its 
large combat footprint in Iraq. It gives our troops the strategy they 
need to succeed in a very difficult environment. It is supported by an 
overwhelming majority of the American people, it is supported by a 
bipartisan majority in the Senate and, most important, it is binding.

President Bush has proven beyond any doubt that if we simply express 
opinion and pass ''Sense of the Senate'' legislation, if we do not put 
teeth behind our legislation, he will ignore us.

It could not be clearer that if we give this President a choice, he 
will stay hunkered down in Iraq until the end of his failed Presidency.

The National Intelligence Estimate report released yesterday 
amplifies the fact that the war in Iraq has taken our attention and 
resources away from the growing threats we face around the world. We 
cannot keep marking time while President Bush's failed war plan 
continues to crumble.

We can vote to end the war right now. Democrats are united in our 
commitment to do so and our resolve has never been stronger. More and 
more Republicans have come out to publicly break from the President's 
endless war strategy. They deserve credit for doing so. I commend and 
applaud them. But their words will not end the war; their votes will.

After 52 months of war; after more than 3,600 American dead; after 
tens of thousands more wounded; after $500 billion of our tax dollars 
spent; after chaos in Iraq has become entrenched; after no meaningful 
signs of progress by the Iraqi Government; after the President's own 
intelligence reports indicate that the war has made us less safe and 
al-Qaida is gaining strength; after a troop escalation has only led to 
more violence; after all of this, after all of this, isn't it time to 
choose a new path? The answer is yes.

Let's choose that new path now. Let's finally answer the call of the 
American people. I urge my Republican colleagues to end this 
filibuster. I urge them to stop blocking a vote on this crucial war-
ending amendment. By voting yes on cloture, we can make this the first 
day of the end of the war.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Members would vote from 
their desks. I further ask unanimous consent that the Chaplain give our 
daily player immediately following my remarks, which I have completed. 
The reason is, otherwise, he would do it at 1 o'clock. If ever there 
were a time for prayer, it would be before this very important vote.

I ask unanimous consent that we vote from our desks. I have cleared 
this with the Republican leader, and ask that the Chaplain be now 
called upon to render the prayer.