---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e30c46dea537a21c174d646c266efcdd`
`Mr. CARNEY — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. CARNEY. Mr. Speaker, I stand today as a proud veteran in support 
of this bipartisan resolution which states that Congress and the 
American people support our men and women in uniform, but do not 
support deploying over 21,000 additional troops to Iraq.

I fear that President Bush's plan to increase troop levels is a 
mistake. Sending more troops will not reduce the violence. Indeed, in 
the past 2 years, we have had three surges to Iraq, only to see 
dramatic increases in violence. Why would we think a fourth surge will 
be different?

Mr. Speaker, 21,000 troop is far less than a half measure of what is 
truly needed to secure Iraq, but the unfortunate reality is that we no 
longer have the troops available to do the job properly. Indeed, the 
Army's strategic reserve is used up. They told us so. We are now less 
able to respond in other trouble spots around the globe because of this 
failed policy.

Why are we not matching our military surge with a diplomatic surge? 
Why are we not engaging every nation in the region to end this civil 
war?

A superpower at war uses all means at its disposal to win, including 
diplomacy. Diplomacy is the only way for us to succeed now, and I urge 
the administration to launch a diplomatic offensive in the region.



Our enemies are encouraged and emboldened by the successes that they 
have enjoyed already. We do not need to send 21,000 troops additional 
to reinforce this. Instead, we should be changing our focus. Rather 
than sending more American troops into combat, we should be training 
Iraqis to handle the job for themselves. For every Iraqi battalion we 
train, we need to bring an American battalion home.

My district in northeastern and central Pennsylvania has many of its 
bravest men and women in harm's way. I am very proud of them, so are 
their families and their communities. Our district, sadly, has lost 22 
men in this war, brave troops who paid the ultimate sacrifice for their 
country. I rise today to honor them and also to stand up for the troops 
currently in combat.

The stories I hear from soldiers who return home leave me concerned 
that the administration has not done enough to protect them. One of my 
own former students, a member of a Pennsylvania National Guard unit, 
told me how his unit had to scrounge through Iraqi junkyards for scrap 
metal to weld on to their trucks for more protection.

Junkyards? Scrap metal? Where is the outrage that this administration 
has not given the troops the protection that they need? Where is the 
outrage that our fine men and women, whose job it is to protect our 
Nation, are scrounging through foreign junkyards for that protection?

The troops have won the war, but the administration has failed to 
secure the peace. We must now pursue policies worthy of our troops and 
their sacrifices.

Mr. Speaker, I came to Congress to serve and protect my country. That 
is why I rise in support of this resolution.

In the Navy, when we run a ship aground, we change the course. It is 
now time to change the course in Iraq, not needlessly send more 
American troops in harm's way.