# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e31368b34ff626b8845998386c119eb1`
`Mr. McCAIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I will respond very briefly to the 
comments of the Senator from Massachusetts on several points in his 
thoughtful statement.

He talks about indefinite--indefinitely the United States Armed 
Forces in Iraq. I think that is a far cry from what we are seeking 
here. What we are seeking here is an opportunity for the surge strategy 
to have a chance to succeed, the last part of which was put in place a 
few weeks ago. In fact, as the Washington Post points out:




 Generals have devised a new strategy, believing they are 


 making fitful progress in calming Baghdad, training the Iraqi 


 army, and encouraging anti-al-Qaeda coalitions. Before 


 Congress begins managing rotation schedules and ordering 


 withdrawals, it should at least give those generals the 


 months they asked for to see whether their strategy can offer 


 some new hope.


It is not about indefinite presence, it is about giving a new 
strategy a chance to succeed. I find it ironic, in a way, that I was 
one of the greatest critics of the Rumsfeld-Casey strategy--which was 
doomed to failure--which was a replica of the old search and destroy, 
where we went in and tried to kill people and left. This new strategy, 
this new general, I think, is showing some signs of success, and--not 
leaving our forces there ''indefinitely''--allowing this strategy a 
chance to succeed is important.

There are very few people in the world I admire more than Natan 
Sharansky, a man who knows the meaning of oppression, imprisonment, and 
suffering, and he lives in the region. Natan Sharansky says:




 A precipitous withdrawal--


Which is what we are talking about here, Mr. President, not an 
indefinite U.S. presence.




 A precipitous withdrawal of U.S. forces could lead to a 


 bloodbath that would make the current carnage pale by 


 comparison. Without U.S. troops in place to quell some of the 


 violence, Iranian-backed Shiite militias would dramatically 


 increase their attacks on Sunnis. Sunni militias backed by 


 the Saudis or others would retaliate in kind, drawing Iraq 


 more and more into a vicious cycle of violence. If Iraq 


 descended into a full-blown civil war, the chaos could 


 trigger similar clashes throughout the region as Sunni-Shiite 


 tensions spill across Iraq's borders. The death toll and 


 displacement of civilians could climb exponentially.


I am quoting from a piece Natan Sharansky wrote entitled ''Leave Iraq 
and Brace for a Bigger Bloodbath.''

We are not seeking an indefinite presence of the United States of 
America in Iraq. We are seeking the opportunity for this surge to have 
a chance to succeed. As General Lynch was quoted as saying:




 Surge forces are giving us the capability we have now to 


 take the fight to the enemy. The enemy only responds to 


 force, and we now have that force. We can conduct detailed 


 kinetic strikes, we can do coordinate searches, and deny the 


 enemy sanctuaries. If those surge forces go away, that 


 capability goes away, and the security forces aren't ready 


 yet to do that mission.


I am not asking us to blindly follow the lead of our military 
leaders, but I am asking us to give the person whom we unanimously 
voted to confirm as our military commander in Iraq, knowing full well 
what his strategy and surge was, a chance to succeed.

Time after time we hear General Lynch, the 3rd ID commander, say:




 Pulling out before the mission was accomplished would be a 


 mess. You would find the enemy regularly gaining ground, 


 reestablishing sanctuaries, building more IEDs, and the 


 violence would escalate.


I share the frustration that all Americans do. This war has been 
mishandled. We have paid an enormous sacrifice, both the sacrifice of 
American blood and treasure, but I believe, as the Washington Post 
said:




 Before Congress begins managing rotation schedules and 


 ordering withdrawals, it should at least give these generals 


 the months they asked for to see whether their strategy can 


 offer some new hope.


I hope we understand what this debate is about, whether we will set a 
timetable for troop withdrawals within


120 days or whether we will give General Petraeus and his able 
commanders and the brave young men and women who are serving an 
opportunity to see if this new strategy can succeed.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.