# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `e315b0f8fdba49ab10456d4fba89f969`
`Mr. McCAIN — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I want to add some additional comments 
about the $438 million that would be taken from the HC/MC 130s 
recapitalization program to fund development of the alternate engine.

I don't think there is any doubt that given the conflict in 
Afghanistan, as well as Iraq, but particularly now in Afghanistan, as 
we move into the southern part of the country, the HC/MC 130s are 
critical weapons systems. Their platforms are designed to specifically 
support our special operations warriors, which is the kind of fight we 
are in. It is an irregular fight, and it puts increasing demands on our 
special forces.

As we know, these aircraft are specialized C-130s that are 
specifically designed for that fight. They have capabilities, such as 
aerial refueling and gunship weaponry, that meet the requirements of 
the special operations command.

I would be very reluctant and strongly opposed to taking funding away 
from special operations and using it to fund the second motor for the 
Joint Strike Fighter. It is a time, obviously, when we are fighting two 
irregular wars, and it is not a time to take this funding away.

According to the Defense Department, the current military requirement 
for the HC/MC 130s aircraft is 60. The Department recently recognized 
that the need to modernize the aging, worn-out special operations and 
combat search and rescue fleets is urgent.

According to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, ''the cut to 
these aircraft would slow down deliveries to the warfighter of the HC-
130 and the MC-130 impacting both the Air Force's Air Combat Command 
and Special Operations Command.''

According to the Air Force ''based on the JROC validated requirements 
for 37 MC-130s and 78 HC-130s, the Air Force, including the Air Force 
Special Operations Command and Air Combat Command, would benefit from 
an even greater acceleration of the recapitalization rate of all 9 
aircraft that remain in the President's budget.

Taking that money out of this program would delay the delivery of new 
aircraft to the warfighter. I think that if General McChrystal were 
here, and our other leaders, they would make it very clear that in the 
very difficult situation we face in Afghanistan--large areas of 
geography that need to be traveled and controlled--these aircraft are 
very much needed. I hope my colleagues will also take that into 
consideration as we consider this vote.

I congratulate the Senator from Indiana for a very eloquent argument 
on behalf of his position. Again, I state


my appreciation for the very important role he plays as a member of the 
Armed Services Committee. This is one of the few times we disagree, but 
I think he has presented his side of the argument with eloquence.

I yield the floor.