# RECOGNIZING THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF CAPTAIN CHARLES L. STUPPARD FOR HIS  OUTSTANDING TOUR OF DUTY IN THE WAR IN THE MIDDLE EAST
## `e32e5857d21432c8e8a907e42f2e1551`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois â€” 9 June 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate 
Captain Charles L. Stuppard, United States Navy for his outstanding 
tour of duty in the war in the Middle East. As of today, he is 
completing one full year of military service as the Commander of Task 
Group 56.6 based in Kuwait. Over the past 12 months, Captain Stuppard 
supported over 10,000 individual sailors during their deployment in 
Kuwait, Iraq, or Afghanistan. He supervised in-processing for over 
17,000 Navy, Air Force, and Department of Defense civilian personnel as 
they are deployed to the Middle East. Captain Stuppard visited many 
forward deployed forces throughout Iraq, Afghanistan and Africa.

Captain Stuppard Task Group coordinated the training of over 3,000 
sailors in High Mobility Multi-Purpose Wheeled Vehicles Egress, 
Tactical Movement, Counter and Close Quarters Marksmanship in order to 
meet current requirements. Such training ensured that deploying sailors 
have the most up-to-date information on the current situation, 
particularly in a desert environment. Captain Stuppard fought 
tirelessly to acquire up-to-date armored vehicles for use by sailors 
traveling outside of the protected areas. Such action had a direct and 
positive impact on the level of protection given to the sailors from 
improved explosive devices, rocket propelled grenade, mines, and small 
arms fire. Consequently, he enhanced the sailors' war fighting 
capabilities and survivability as forward deployed units.

Captain Stuppard graduated from Cornell University in 1982 with a 
bachelor of science degree in mechanical and aerospace engineering. In 
1998, Captain Stuppard obtained his master's degree in national 
security and strategic studies at the Naval War College in Newport, RI. 
He is currently a doctoral student at Salve Regina University in 
Newport, RI.

Captain Stuppard's accomplishments and achievements are truly 
outstanding and serve as an example to all citizens throughout our 
country, the United States of America. Captain Stuppard is a true 
gentleman and an outstanding American. I congratulate Captain Charles 
L. Stuppard for a job well done while serving in the Middle East.
