# INTRODUCTION OF LTC JAMES MEGELLAS MEDAL OF HONOR BILL
## `e33a16eb35b1f6366232e1c6194d607a`
`Mr. PETRI — 1 February 2007`

---


Mr. PETRI. Madam Speaker, I am reintroducing legislation to honor a 
true American hero by awarding him the Medal of Honor. Sixty-two years 
ago this past Sunday, on January 28, 1945, during the Battle of the 
Bulge, then Lt. James Megellas led his platoon of the 82nd Airborne 
Division on a surprise and devastating attack on a much larger 
advancing German force, killing and capturing a large number of the 
enemy and causing others to flee. In an act of fearless courage, Lt. 
Megellas single-handedly destroyed an attacking German Mark V tank with 
two hand-held grenades. He then led the charge of his men and seized 
Herresbach, Belgium, during this fierce action of the Battle of the 
Bulge. Due to his aggressive, fearless and superior leadership, Lt. 
James Megellas inspired his men to excel.

After serving four years as a rifle platoon leader during World War 
II, including many combat jumps into Italy and Holland, James Megellas 
left the active Army and served for 16 years in the Army Reserve. He 
retired after 20 years of service as a lieutenant colonel.

His awards and decorations include the Distinguished Service Cross, 
two Silver Star Medals, two Bronze Star Medals, two Purple Hearts, and 
he is credited with being the 82nd Airborne Division's most decorated 
officer. During World War II, General James Gavin selected one 82nd 
officer--Lt. James Megellas--to receive the Military Order of Willhelm 
Orange Lanyard from the Dutch Minister of War on behalf of his 
division.

To this day, James Megellas continues to inspire. In February 2006, 
61 years after that momentous battle, James ''Maggie'' Megellas set 
foot on a battlefield with fellow 82nd Airborne Division soldiers, this 
time in a current theater of war--Afghanistan. James Megellas was 
impressed with what he saw of the paratroopers and their work. He 
listened to their stories of the past year of deployment and shared 
with them his own experiences during World War II. ''Maggie'' continues 
to inspire by speaking to groups across the country about his 
experiences and is planning to observe his 90th birthday in Iraq this 
March with the 82nd Airborne troops.

I urge my colleagues to recognize James ''Maggie'' Megellas by 
supporting this bill to authorize and request the President to award 
him the Medal of Honor for his acts of valor on January 28, 1945, 
during the Battle of the Bulge. As time goes by, true heroes should not 
be forgotten, so please join me in honoring this outstanding American 
hero.
