---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `e3496a9528bc4b6c8287751e76bedc50`
`Mr. BOND — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Oklahoma. I 
appreciate the opportunity to talk about this very important subject. 
Some have said we don't want to debate the war in Iraq, but we have 
been doing that and I am happy to debate it.

We are at war. One of the jobs of this body is to support our troops 
when we are at war. As such, we should be taking up the supplemental 
war funding bill that will directly support and aid our service men and 
women and support the efforts underway in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I regret the Democratic leadership has chosen to delay acting on 
funds our troops in the field need and must have by the 1st of May. 
Here we go, talking about resolutions. We are taking up nonbinding 
resolutions. The key one is nonsensical; it would serve only to 
undermine the morale of our service men and women and boost the morale 
of our enemies. S.J. Res. 9 has a clear message, if not to Americans 
reading the news, certainly to our enemy: America has been defeated. 
America does not have the will to win. Or we cannot defeat American 
troops on the streets of Iraq, but we can defeat America in the halls 
of Congress. That is what they will be saying.

Out of the 17 different resolutions the majority has worked with and 
introduced, they have decided to debate S.J. Res. 9--one in a litany of 
defeatist, micromanaging resolutions that have been offered by the 
other side.

Like so many of the others, it calls for a retreat and it ensures 
defeat. Such a retreat, in its wake, would create a bastion of 
instability, violence, regional conflict, and a launching point for 
future attacks on our allies and this Nation such as that witnessed 
after 9/11. The intelligence community, in public testimony before our 
committee in January, publicly stated that the very real three-pronged 
threat of turning Iraq over to the chaos is a serious challenge we all 
should consider.



Fortunately, those of us who believe the generals ought to run the 
war have the Constitution on our side, which specifies that the 
President--not those of us in the 535 Members of Congress--is Commander 
in Chief. The proponents of S.J. Res. 9 to set deadlines must now 
believe they are more equipped, better informed, and have better 
judgment than the leaders and military commanders they recently and 
unanimously confirmed.

Is the American public to believe that the legislators in these 
beautiful halls, 8,000 miles away from the front, are better equipped 
to develop strategies than General Petraeus, whom this body confirmed 
unanimously to lead U.S. forces?

I think the Founding Fathers were right at the time and they are 
right now. We do not fight wars in the Halls of Congress. We cannot win 
this war by resolutions we pass, but we can lose the war in the Halls 
of Congress. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle continue to 
cite public opinion polls about Iraq as well as a reason why we should 
pull out. What may be perceived to be popular in the short run, 
regrettably, will in the long run compound into an even bigger problem 
that will end up costing us and our allies far more blood and treasure.

Further, when it comes to national security, we ought to be governing 
on principles, not on public opinion polls.

The American people want victory, not defeat. They are demanding 
progress, which the new security plan was designed to produce. 
Incidentally, this new plan fits almost exactly with the 
recommendations of the Baker-Hamilton committee, which so many people 
on both sides of the aisle said would be the ultimate solution. Well, 
General Petraeus and the administration are carrying out the details of 
the Baker-Hamilton plan, and now we are changing our mind. Why? Well, 
some, I fear, may be inspired by a loathing of President Bush. But even 
to those of you who do, I appeal to you to recognize the President is 
not the enemy. The enemy is ruthlessly chopping the heads off innocent 
civilians in front of cameras, blowing up schoolchildren, blowing up 
places of worship. One Army officer recently e-mailed me and said:




 I proudly served in Iraq. I know who the enemies of America 


 are. I have met them in person. Our President is not the 


 enemy.


This would not be George Bush's defeat or victory. It will be an 
American defeat or victory, and the sooner we understand that, the 
sooner perhaps we can be united.

Robert Kagan, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for 
International Peace and transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall 
Fund, recently wrote a piece in the Washington Post describing the sad 
state of current political affairs. It was entitled ''Grand Illusion.'' 
In the piece he asserted:




 Democratic and Republican members of Congress are looking 


 for a different kind of political solution: the solution to 


 their problems in presidential primaries and elections almost 


 2 years off.


This is coming, as he indicates in his article, just as ''American 
soldiers are finally beginning the hard job of establishing a measure 
of peace, security and order in critical sections of Baghdad.''

He goes on to say that ''they've launched attacks on Sunni insurgent 
strongholds and begun reining in Moqtada al-Sadr's militia.''

This is appropriate advice. He says:




 Politicians in both parties should realize that success in 


 this mission is in their interest, as well as the nation's. 


 Here's a wild idea: Forget the political posturing, be 


 responsible, and provide the moral and material support our 


 forces need and expect.


Despite many people's dissatisfaction with the war, I don't think a 
majority of Americans want us to withdraw, to retreat and admit defeat.

Throughout the debate, we have also heard references and comparisons 
made to Vietnam, that this is a quagmire, that the war is unjust, 
poorly managed, it threatens our individual liberties, it is 
unwinnable, and the only option is to pull out. All of the very same 
things were said during the campaign against President Lincoln in 1864, 
with well over one-quarter of a million dead Americans; after the Union 
suffered 7,000 casualties in 30 short minutes at Cold Harbor; and until 
Sherman won in Atlanta.

If you look at our history, anybody getting 24-hour television news 
during the battles Americans fought against the British in 1776, you 
would have had to say we were in worse shape than we are now.

When you look at the conditions our troops were in before D-Day and 
all the things that went wrong, 24-hour news coverage would have 
convinced an overwhelming majority of the American people to forget it, 
pull the plug, let the Nazis have it. But if somebody used Vietnam as a 
model--and it should be used completely--I think it reminds people of 
the image associated with Vietnam that too many ignore.

I suspect this is a historical photo that many of our murderous 
enemies dream would be superimposed over the rooftops of Baghdad. These 
are the people left behind. We left behind people. Some 2.5 million 
were murdered after we pulled out of Vietnam.

This is, of course, the final, classic departure, people trying to 
get away. Those who didn't were slaughtered.

Our enemies throughout the radical Islamist world are all too 
familiar with immediate withdrawal and retreat. We withdrew from 
Vietnam, we withdrew from Beirut, and we withdrew from Mogadishu.

These repeated withdrawals signaled to our enemies all over the world 
that if they inflict enough damage on our most heroic citizens, the 
Marines will never surrender but Washington will.

And make no mistake about it, they are watching. They are watching to 
see what we will do in Iraq.

These repeated withdrawals invited the 1993 World Trade Center 
attack, the bombings of our embassies in Africa, the USS Cole, the 
Khobar Towers, and eventually 9/11. None of these actions occurred 
because of our action to liberate Iraq. Five or six of these attacks 
occurred before President Bush took office, and George Bush did not 
invent the danger from radical Islam.

Further, the notion of separating al-Qaida from the sectarian killers 
can only be contemplated from as far away as Washington because al-
Qaida is targeting the mixed neighborhoods and has overtly promised 
sectarian violence to undermine the Iraqi Government and to weaken U.S. 
Government resolve.

The Democratic resolution before us now is precisely what our enemies 
want to hear and, sadly, are expecting to hear.

Here are some quotes from one of the people we ought to be reading 
more frequently, Osama bin Laden. Osama bin Laden said:




 We found that out from our brothers who fought the 


 Americans in Somalia. They did not see it as a power worthy 


 of any mention. . . . God gave them and the mujahideen 


 success in Somalia and the United States pulled out, trailing 


 disappointment, defeat and failure behind it. It achieved 


 nothing. It left quicker than people had imagined.


That is what Osama bin Laden said on October 21, 2001.

In addition to that statement, he said on February 14, 2003:




 It has been made clear during our defending and fighting 


 against the American enemy that this enemy's combat strategy 


 is heavily dependent on the psychological aspect of war . . . 


 which hides the cowardice and lack of fighting spirit of the 


 American soldier. . . . Likewise, let me remind you of the 


 defeat of the American forces in Beirut in 1982, soon after 


 the Israeli invasion of Lebanon, when the Lebanese resistance 


 was personified by a truck laden with explosives that struck 


 the main military base of the U.S. Marines in Beirut, killing 


 242 soldiers--towards hell was their destination and what an 


 evil destination that is.


This is what Osama bin Laden thinks of us. He stated many times that 
Americans don't have the stomach for conflict and this Democratic 
resolution embodies that very notion.

What Osama bin Laden and the enemies we are fighting against expect 
to see is Vietnam. Let's give General Petraeus more confidence. General 
Petraeus was confirmed unanimously. He stated that the effort in Iraq 
will have to be sustained to achieve its desired effect and that more 
troops are vital to advancing security. We confirmed him unanimously. 
Give him a chance.

He reported last week that nine Iraqi reinforcement battalions have 
entered Baghdad. He pointed to a decrease in sectarian killings, the 
discovery of numerous weapons caches, and the capture of al-Qaida 
members. Al-Sadr has fled Sadr City, and al-Baghdadi was recently 
reported caught.

Associated Press reporter Robert Reid recently reported General


Petraeus walking through the streets of Hit, a Sunni city with a bloody 
past. Last month in the article, he reported:




 Iraqi police backed by U.S. troops swept through the city 


 of about 120,000 people, arresting suspected insurgents and 


 establishing three new police stations in the downtown area. 


 Since then, the number of violent incidents has dropped from 


 an average of 5 per day to 1.3 per day.


Now that a relative level of security has been established, the 
important political and economic development work must begin.

In the past, the United States had claimed similar victories in Hit, 
but those gains were lost because of lack of enough troops to sustain 
the province.

I ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the Record.