---
---

# COURT SECURITY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `e355595433b75a3f934a04016dc8e029`
`Mr. CORNYN — 18 April 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I wish to speak in favor of S. 378, the 
Court Security Improvement Act. But before I do, I wish to address 
remarks made this morning by the majority whip, the distinguished 
Senator from Illinois, for whom I have a lot of respect, but I have to 
tell you, I disagree with those comments, and I wish to take a few 
moments to explain why.

Throughout his comments, the Senator repeated the theme that 
Republicans were stopping debate on the floor and not allowing bills to 
be debated. I disagree with him, and I believe nothing could be farther 
from the truth. The truth is, as I see it, the majority has tried to 
force things through the Senate, and they have done so in a way that 
has denied the minority an opportunity to offer amendments and to allow 
this body, the so-called world's greatest deliberative body, to


even have votes and make decisions on those important amendments.

This morning, the Democratic whip talked about our Founders' intent 
that ''minority rights would always be respected.'' In this body, 
minority rights are not being respected. That is the problem. So we 
have no choice but to assert the last protection against majority 
tyranny; that is, to object or vote against invoking cloture or closing 
off debate.

In the past, the majority has used cloture when necessary to move a 
bill forward, after debate has been exhausted, but the minority refuses 
to allow movement on the legislation. I think that is a perfectly 
legitimate use of the cloture motion.

By this date in the 109th Congress--the Congress just preceding the 
current Congress--Republicans, when they were in the majority, had 
filed cloture four times. In the 108th Congress--the immediately 
preceding Congress--at this point in time, when Republicans were in the 
majority, Republicans had filed cloture five times. In the 107th 
Congress, Republicans only filed cloture one time at this point in 
time.

By comparison, since the Democrats have now become the new majority 
in the Senate, Democrats have filed cloture 22 times. The question 
naturally arises: Why are Democrats using this divisive tactic so 
frequently to close off debate?

Well, I think my colleague from Illinois disclosed the reason this 
morning when he stated:




 Ultimately, they will be held accountable for their 


 strategy. That is what elections are all about.


It is the view from this Senator, from my perspective, the Democrats 
are using this tactic to paint Republicans as obstructionists, when the 
exact opposite is true. The new Democratic majority in the Senate is 
refusing to allow full and fair debate on issue after issue and, more 
importantly, denying us an opportunity to offer amendments on important 
legislation and to simply have an up-or-down vote on those amendments.

I can tell you, from my perspective, Republicans do not enjoy the 
procedural clash any more than Democrats do. But it is necessary to 
protect this institution and, even more importantly, necessary to 
protect the rights afforded in the Senate to the minority.

We have been eager to engage in full debate, and we understand the 
rules that majorities will prevail when majorities have an opportunity 
to vote. But the rules do not permit the new majority, the Democrats, 
to unilaterally set the terms for the debate. Until the Democratic 
majority recognizes all Members of this body have the right to debate 
legislation, to offer amendments, and to have votes on those 
amendments, we will continue in this standoff.

It is true, I believe, that only the majority--the new Democratic 
majority--can fix this problem by simply allowing full debate to go 
forward and by allowing up-or-down votes on amendments on the Senate 
floor, which requires discussions, which requires negotiations, and, 
yes, it requires compromise.

Filing cloture--closing off debate--is an intensely aggressive move. 
It says: We do not want to hear your opinions. We do not want to hear 
your views. We do not want to consider your ideas on how to improve the 
legislation on the floor of the Senate. We want to shut down the 
debate, and we want to shove this legislation through the Senate. It is 
a ''my way or the highway'' approach to legislation. And do you know 
what. It does not work.

I would point out--and I guess it is fair to say if you have been in 
the Senate long enough--and I have not--but I have been told, if you 
have been in the Senate long enough, you will find yourself, at some 
points in your career, on the side of the majority, and at other times 
you will find yourself on the side of the minority. It is the way it 
works.

Last Congress, when Democrats were in the minority, they insisted 
that the filing of cloture turned the Senate into the House of 
Representatives--a refusal to allow open and broad debate, with hard 
majority rule. Here they are now, though, attempting to cut off debate 
at, it seems, almost every possible turn. It is the reason--and this is 
the consequence of it; it is not just complaining about it; this is the 
consequence that has a very real impact on the American people because 
the new majority, the Democratic majority, has refused an opportunity 
for full and fair debate and votes on amendments--that is the reason 
why Democrats have not sent any real legislation to the President for 
his signature after 3 months in power. They have chosen the hard edge 
of party politics instead of bipartisanship.


Our Democratic friends have chosen to pursue this agenda driven by 
campaign rhetoric instead of seeking the broad middle ground and trying 
to negotiate and to pass legislation on behalf of the American people. 
It is true that Democrats won the last election--and my congratulations 
to them--on a message of bipartisanship, on a message of, let's get 
things done. But their choices to date have not reflected any effort to 
seriously reach across the aisle to do that.

One example that comes to mind is on Iraq. My colleague from Illinois 
claimed:




 We were stopped, stopped by the Republican minority. They 


 would not allow us to go to the substance of that debate. 


 They didn't want the Senate to spend its time on the floor 


 considering a resolution, going on record as to whether we 


 approve or disapprove of the President's action.


The fact is, completely the opposite occurred. Republicans on this 
incredibly important debate asked only that we be allowed to discuss 
the issue fully, and the Democratic majority repeatedly attempted to 
ram through their resolution without offering any alternatives or any 
opportunity for alternative resolutions to be considered and voted on. 
We explained this on the Senate floor over and over during that 
discussion, but our colleagues in the majority simply turned a deaf ear 
to our concerns. When they finally allowed several options to be 
considered, we were able to have a full debate we had been asking for 
all along, and then the process moved forward.

I would point out that was on the 20th iteration of the resolutions 
on Iraq before we had an opportunity to have that debate, a vote, and 
to move the process forward.

My colleague from Illinois repeated several times this morning his 
hope that we could ''find some ways to establish bipartisan 
cooperation.''

I say to my colleague, there is a way to do that. The majority must 
stop trying to ram legislation through and allow us to debate openly 
and to file relevant amendments and allow an up-or-down vote on those 
amendments.

My colleague from Illinois talked about the ''do-nothing Congress'' 
of last year--that was his phraseology--and placed sole blame for the 
current majority's lack of accomplishments on the minority's refusal to 
invoke cloture or close off debate. The Washington Post just this 
morning reported that only 26 percent of the public thinks the current 
Democratic majority in Congress has accomplished ''a great deal'' or 
''a good amount.''

The fact is, this approach to legislating has not produced a single 
piece of significant legislation so far in this Congress due to the 
lack of bipartisanship and due to the lack of opportunity the minority 
has had to fully participate in the debate and shaping of legislation. 
Of the 17 laws enacted this Congress, 10 of those are naming of Federal 
properties. Let me say that again. Of the 17 pieces of legislation 
enacted in this Congress so far, 10 of them involve naming of Federal 
properties, Federal buildings, post offices and the like. Not one of 
the ''six for '06'' campaign promises has been passed by Congress.

The majority, to be sure, is blaming the minority for the lack of 
progress here based on the result of cloture votes, but let's look at 
the facts.

On the 9/11 bill, the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, the 
House and the Senate passed different bills. Democratic leadership in 
neither body has brought up the other's bill so that those might be 
resolved in a conference committee.

On the minimum wage bill, the House and the Senate passed different 
versions, but no conferees have been appointed by either body.

On the emergency war supplemental, perhaps the most urgent piece of 
legislation we could possibly pass and send to the President to support 
the troops who are in harm's way as I speak, the House and the Senate 
passed different versions of the bill. The House, fresh off of a 2-week 
recess, has yet to appoint conferees to start working out


the differences between the bills to get funding to our troops. This is 
especially damaging and reckless, considering the majority is insisting 
we send a bill to the President that has a timeline for withdrawal, a 
provision that has caused the President to promise to veto that 
legislation. That means before the troops can get the money they need--
in other words, to get them the equipment they need during this war--
before we can get them the money, we have to come up with a bill the 
President will sign. Yet the Democratic majority has continued to play 
politics and stall the bill.

On stem cell research, no conferees have been appointed. The same for 
the budget. The same for lobbying reform. The list goes on and on.

The distinguished Senator from Illinois, the Democratic whip, 
explained that due to the numbers in this body:




 On any given day, if we're going to pass or consider 


 important legislation, it has to be bipartisan.


And that:




 If we're going to be constructive in the United States 


 Senate, we need much more bipartisan cooperation.


He continued, saying:




 We should come together, Democrats and Republicans, and 


 compromise and cooperate.


And asking,




 Isn't it time we really start out on a new day in the 


 Congress trying to find bipartisan ways to cooperate and 


 solve the real problems that face our country?


To that I say amen. It is past time for the new majority in this body 
to stop acting like they are Members of the House of Representatives 
who are going to be able to force their will by a simple majority 
through the Senate because this is not the House. This is the Senate. 
The only way we are going to be able to get any legislation passed is 
through bipartisan cooperation. The only way we are going to get that 
cooperation is to meet in the middle somehow, to debate as our 
constituents would expect us to debate, to take positions--yes, firmly 
held positions--based on our convictions. But then ultimately we need 
to have votes on amendments and votes on legislation and let the 
majority prevail. Let's send the bills to the President for his 
signature. That is the way it is supposed to work. That is the way it 
has not been working, but we know the way forward.

I have to tell my colleagues that I and my Republican colleagues 
would welcome the opportunity to sit down on a bipartisan basis and to 
reach a consensus on important issues such as how to preserve our 
entitlement programs, including Social Security, Medicaid, and Medicare 
by protecting their long-term solvency. How do we avoid passing the 
bills incurred by the baby boomer generation on down to our children 
and grandchildren? How can we expand health care access to more 
Americans? How can we solve our broken immigration system, along with 
the broken borders that pose a national security risk to each and every 
American citizen? After all, I have to believe that is the reason we 
ran for public office. That is the reason we wanted to be elected to 
serve in the Senate--whether we are a Republican or a Democrat--to make 
a difference for the American people, to make our country a better 
place, and to make tomorrow better for our children and grandchildren 
than it is today. Instead, we spend day after day taking partisan votes 
that lead to nothing but gridlock. This is the choice of the majority, 
not the choice of the minority.

After the first 100 days, the Congress is, again, at a fork in the 
road. So far the new majority has taken the path of partisanship, but 
we know that will not get us down the road to progress. I hope during 
the second 100 days of this new Congress, the new majority will pause 
and decide to take the road less traveled--the road of cooperation and 
accomplishment.

Mr. President, I want to speak briefly on the Court Security 
Improvement Act, a bill of which I am proud to be a cosponsor. As we 
have already heard, this bill is designed to address the critical issue 
of the security of our judges and courthouse personnel. I have to add 
as a personal note, this is not a matter of just some academic interest 
to me. I believe I am correct in that I am the only current Member of 
the Senate who has served as a member of the judiciary, in my case for 
13 years in our State court system in Texas, both at the trial bench 
and at the Texas Supreme Court level. So this is more than a matter of 
academic interest to me. Protecting our men and women who personify the 
rule of law and all that it means is very important.

The dedicated men and women who work in America's courthouses, from 
the judges to the court reporters to the bailiffs, preside each day 
over difficult, contentious, and sometimes very emotional disputes.

These public servants, just like our police, are placed in harm's way 
by the very nature of their jobs. They fulfill essential roles that 
keep our democracy running smoothly, and I have the greatest respect 
for the people who try to do this job and try to do it well.

Unfortunately, violence directed at public servants is on the rise, 
from escalating violence against police officers to courthouse 
attacks--including in my State of Texas--these despicable actions 
threaten the administration of justice and threaten our ability to 
invoke the rule of law.

This Congress has the power, and now we must exercise it, to ensure 
that certain and swift punishment awaits those who engage in these 
unconscionable acts of violence. The administration of justice--indeed, 
the health of our very democracy--depends on our ability to attract 
dedicated public servants to work at our courthouses. So we must do 
everything in our power to provide adequate security to these men and 
women who are too often targeted for violence or harassment simply 
because of the position they hold and the decisions they are called 
upon to make.

As a former attorney general in my State, I had the responsibility of 
defending sentences on appeal of certain defendants who had been found 
guilty of violent acts. So I am acutely aware of the devastating 
effects criminal acts of violence have on not only the victims 
themselves but also on their families. Because I also used to be a 
judge, I am fortunate to have a number of close personal friends who 
continue to serve on our benches and work at our courthouses. I 
personally know judges and their families who have been victims of 
violence, and I have grieved with those victims and their families.

Our judges are impartial umpires of the law. We know they cannot help 
but disappoint some people because that is what they do--they make 
decisions. They determine winners and losers. Judges, witnesses, and 
courthouse personnel must not face threats and violence for simply 
doing their job.

The protection of the men and women who compose our judicial system 
and serve the public and law enforcement is essential to the proper 
administration of justice in our country. This important bill takes big 
steps toward providing additional protections on these dedicated public 
servants. I urge my colleagues to give it their full support.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.