# CONGRATULATING THE ARMY RESERVE ON ITS CENTENNIAL
## `e36827a586c58a57a75a4f67358dae93`
`Mr. TIAHRT â€” 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Madam Speaker, I rise today to join my colleagues in 
support of H.J. Res. 70, congratulating the Army Reserve on their 100-
year history. The U.S. Constitution of 1789 and the Militia Act of 1792 
officially reaffirmed the continued reliance of the new Nation on the 
citizen-soldier for defense. According to Army Reserve Historian Lee S. 
Harford, Jr., the antecedents and heritage of the current United States 
Army Reserve are found in the tradition of the ''federal'' or 
''national'' American citizen-soldier, dating back at least as far as 
the French and Indian War (1756-1763). America would be a very 
different place were it not for the patriotism and dedication of these 
citizen-warriors.

Members of the Army Reserve bring maturity, experience and civilian-
acquired skills to the active military components and since September 
11, 2001, over 188,025 soldiers have been mobilized in support of 
Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. The Army 
Reserve provides trained and ready soldiers and units with the critical 
combat service support and combat support capabilities necessary to 
support Nation strategy during peacetime, contingencies and war. They 
are a key element in the Army multi-component unit force, training with 
Active and National Guard units to ensure all 3 components work as a 
fully integrated team.

Since September 11th, the Nation's Reserve Components have evolved 
from a strategic force in reserve to an operational force that is 
constantly deployed. Gone are the days of working 2 weekends a month 
and 2 weeks in the summer. The on-going Global War on Terrorism has 
seen citizen-warrior deployments go from 1 in every 5 years to now 1 in 
every 2-3 years. Army Reserve members are deployed all around the world 
and fulfill a wide range of capabilities that include war-fighting, 
humanitarian assistance, disaster relief, and post-conflict and 
transitional operations such as democracy building, stability efforts 
and peace-keeping. Many of my fellow Kansans share in this tremendous 
Army Reserve tradition, as members of the 89th Regional Readiness 
Command. Their mission is to help train and deploy America's most 
effective supporting ground forces.

Army Reserve soldiers must balance military obligations with family 
obligations and also manage a delicate balance with their full-time 
civilian careers. Employers must cope with these year-long deployments 
and balance the instability created from having one less employee to 
conduct business. Additionally, we as a Nation must ensure that these 
Army Reserve heroes are taken care of when they return from 
deployments. We must properly treat returning soldiers for post 
traumatic stress disorders, and ensure their transition back to 
civilian life is as smooth as possible.

I encourage my colleagues to support this important resolution and am 
pleased that today the House recognizes the role of the Army Reserve.
