---
---

# None
## `e37576c22510cc37d4f6c8d1798d72e7`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me first of all thank the 
distinguished gentleman from Ohio and distinguished gentleman from 
Florida for allowing me to join you this evening. We do this on 
occasion, and I thank you for setting the record straight.

I just want to say this brief comment on this question of the Iraq 
War and the veto. Usually there is a phrase that says if you break it, 
fix it. Well, this government was broken. Nobody in the last several 
Congresses wanted to fix it, and it is now our task to fix it. That is 
why you had a board that showed accountability and oversight, and that 
is why it is imperative that we took the vote last Friday and the 
Senate took the vote yesterday to go forward and make a difference with 
a framework in Iraq that the American people asked us to do.

I frankly thought that when we won the election that this President 
would do what many Presidents do in a divided government, sit down with 
the Speaker and the majority leader and work to save lives in Iraq. 
Unfortunately, that was not the case, and so I applaud you for bringing 
to the light the idea of accountability.

I just want to quickly move forward with a couple of points about the 
budget vote and the budget that we have to engage in, and when I look 
at this particular board that talks about the economy and jobs, I think 
of places like Texas, Ohio, Florida, the Midwest, New York. I think of 
the time of the past presidency under President Clinton, a Democratic 
President, when there were 236,000 jobs created per month. Now, we are 
at 68,000 jobs per month.

Clearly, the Bush economy job growth is among the slowest of any 
administration in over 70 years, and this literally shows Presidents 
Hoover, Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford. 
Ford had, of course, inflation. It shows Carter. It shows Reagan. It 
shows Bush I, Clinton and now this President.

The balancing of the budget that we intend to do with a vote taken 
tomorrow clearly speaks to energizing the economy.

Now, let me just talk to those who say that we are raising taxes in 
this budget. That is false. That is not true. This budget does not 
contain a single penny of tax increases, period, and the Republicans 
have been misdescribing this budget because they have had the largest 
tax cut in the history of the United States. But who benefits the most 
when the tax cuts are fully enacted? As usual, it is those making over 
$1 million.


That is why Democrats are focusing on middle class taxes. That is why 
we are cutting middle class income tax. That is why we are focusing on 
fixing the alternative minimum tax, to shield middle income taxpayers. 
That is why we have relief for the child tax credit, the marriage 
penalty relief, and we do something about the estate tax, because any 
tax cut by this administration, $17,500 would go to those making over 
$1 million. I would simply say to the gentlemen, who are we 
representing, the special interests, the rich, or are we trying to 
represent the working middle class?

Now, there are many budgets that will be on the floor tomorrow, and I 
just want to comment on one. The Congressional Black Caucus budget 
improves the deficit by $107 billion even over our Democratic budget 
and $339 billion over the President's budget. There will be a number of 
budgets, but I am very proud of this budget which really improves the 
deficit, and when we improve the deficit, being that when we lower the 
deficit, we work on the high interest rates. Many of us have been 
hearing unfortunately about large numbers of foreclosures. Part of that 
is because of reverse mortgages and poor people being plagued upon, if 
you will, by predatory lending, which are some challenges that fell 
into this administration, where there was no oversight and 
accountability of our financial industry. I am delighted that we have a 
new chairman of the Financial Services Committee to begin to look at 
the massive foreclosures, and I would encourage those who are 
tragically in the jaws of foreclosure, get on the phone and call your 
Members of Congress to speak out against predatory lending and asking 
for some relief because you are deserving of it.



My attentiveness on what Mr. Ryan and Mr. Meek were speaking about 
drew me to bring to the attention of our listeners and to my colleagues 
on the floor this whole question of why not only do we need this budget 
but why it is I think ludicrous for the President to have a veto threat 
on the emergency supplemental.

Who is going to respond to the emergency conditions at Walter Reed? 
Who is going to respond to the emergency conditions of large numbers of 
Iraqi veterans who are returning, along with the veterans from 
Afghanistan, with brain injury, post-traumatic stress, the need of 
prosthetics, the need of outpatient clinics and the need of family 
resources and health resources?

Well, I hate to tell you that I think over the last 8 years, last 6-
years, this administration has, in fact, been poor to poor veterans. 
January 2003, this lays out how the Bush and the Republican budget 
funding for veterans has been poor and the veterans have been doing 
poorly. The Bush administration cuts off veterans' health care for 
164,000 veterans.

Why do you not walk in your veterans hospitals like many of us have 
done? I did a couple of Sundays ago, visited with veterans who are 
paraplegic, paralyzed from the neck down, paralyzed from the legs down, 
and you ask the question, how can you can cut off veterans' health care 
for 164,000 vets? Our budget fixes these problems.

In March 2003, Republican budget that cut $14 billion from veterans' 
health care passed by Congress with 199 Democrats voting against it. We 
voted against the cut of $14 billion from veterans' health care.

March 2004, Republican budget that shortchanged veterans' health care 
by $1.5 billion passed by Congress with 201 Democrats voting against 
it. Our record is very clear.

And in March 2005, President Bush's budget shortchanged veterans' 
health care by more than $2 billion for 2005 and cut veterans' health 
care by $14 billion over 5 years but passed with 201 Democrats voting 
against it.

But what I would also say is that it was Democrats who had to come 
back on this floor and pressure this Congress to put more money back in 
the budget and back into the resources for our veterans.

Let me just say this as I wind down on this budget. Tomorrow there 
will be a number of substitute budgets. If I could write my own Sheila 
Jackson-Lee budget, I would have all of it for domestic spending, for 
housing and health care. Though we have done a great job on the SCHIP 
program, and I thank Mr. Meek for holding up the embarrassment that we 
have across America, with States that have as high as 12 percent of our 
children uninsured, when we could, in fact, have universal health care 
for all of our children if we were more responsible and we had a more 
responsible government, I am grateful for the fact, even with a budget 
that I would have written differently, with more money for health care, 
as I said more money for housing, and probably more money for the gulf 
region because we think of Katrina, but the whole gulf region was 
undermined by this terrible hurricane and it has remained so, so it 
needs a boost in its economy, but I am grateful that this budget 
includes a $50 billion reserve fund to expand the State children's 
health insurance to cover more of the 9 million children without health 
insurance in this country.

So we tried to fix what was broken. We did not break it, but the fact 
is it is broken, and therefore, I am very proud to stand with Democrats 
in this budget to be able to come to a Ohio or to be able to tell you 
that we are going to stop the bleeding on jobs leaving this country, 
and stop the bleeding of jobs not being provided for Americans.