---
---

# HEALTH CARE AND EDUCATION RECONCILIATION ACT OF 2010
## `e37cb3627f63009232e09ca153beab2f`
`Mrs. McCASKILL — 24 March 2010`

---


Mrs. McCASKILL. Mr. President, we have had a lot of that childhood 
story we all learned of ''Chicken Little.'' We have had a lot of 
Chicken Little around this building in the last few months: The sky is 
falling, the sky is falling. You know, I woke up this morning, I looked 
up and the sky was not falling. Every day that goes by in America 
people are going to realize the sky is not falling. In fact, as time 
goes on that sky is going to get bluer and brighter because people in 
America are going to realize this bill is not full of booby traps, it 
is full of good things that will reform health care.

I rise this afternoon to take a couple of minutes to talk about a new 
low of obstructionism, taking game playing to a whole new level. In 10 
minutes I was supposed to convene a hearing on the contracts for police 
training in Afghanistan. This is a very important part of our mission 
in Afghanistan, the training of local police departments. There was a 
witness who was going to be there from the State Department, a witness 
there from the Defense Department, the Inspectors General were going to 
be there.

Just last week GAO wiped out a contract that had been let on police 
training because of problems in the way the contract was competed. So 
this hearing was timely and it is important. We cannot succeed in 
Afghanistan if we do not have effective police training. These 
contracts are problematic. The State Department is supposed to be 
overseeing them. We have hundreds of millions of dollars not accounted 
for.

So what do I find out this morning? The Republican party is not going 
to let us have the hearing. What in the world? Why in the world are we 
not being allowed to work this afternoon? Why in the world are we not 
able to ask questions at a hearing in a few minutes as to why the 
police training is not going well in Afghanistan and how we can do 
better?

Our men and women are over there and they are at risk if we do not 
get this right. I don't get it. I don't get what the purpose of saying 
no is. I don't get what we accomplish. We are sent here to work. We are 
paid by the people of this country to work. The idea that I had to call 
these witnesses and say go home because the Republicans will not let us 
have a hearing--


somebody has to explain this to me. Disagree with us, debate, vote no--
but let us work. I implore you: Let us work.