---
---

# GAS PRICES
## `e38638eb6c92c4e45ec6e64857cf04b0`
`Mr. THUNE — 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I congratulate my colleague from Wyoming 
for his comments. His State of Wyoming and my State of South Dakota 
share a border. We have a lot of very similar ways of making a living. 
We share a commonality when it comes to the people we represent, their 
values. And he is exactly on point when he talks about the importance 
of energy to a State like Wyoming and a State like South Dakota and its 
impact on the economy and how families in our States are struggling and 
sacrificing with this extraordinary challenge that faces our Nation 
today, and that is the high cost of energy.

I want to speak to that subject today as well because on Tuesday, 
July 22, the Interagency Task Force on Commodity Markets released its 
Interim Report on Crude Oil. I think it is important and it bears on 
the debate we are having in the Senate today because the primary 
purpose of the bill that is before us, as put forward by the Democratic 
leadership as a solution to energy, is to focus on the very narrow 
issue of speculation in the marketplace.

Well, the task force is chaired by the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission and includes staff members from the Departments of 
Agriculture, Energy, and the Treasury, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Securities and 
Exchange Commission.

Although its final report is not expected until September, I think 
the interim report provides some valuable insight on the energy markets 
and the record increase that we are seeing in oil prices. The report 
concludes that record oil prices are caused by the simple economic laws 
of supply and demand.

The report states:




 Current oil prices and the increase in oil prices between 


 January of 2003 and June of 2008 are largely due to 


 fundamental supply and demand factors.


The report describes that worldwide demand for petroleum has greatly 
increased over recent years due to population growth and rising 
incomes.

Specifically, the report states:




 World economic activity has expanded to close to 5 percent 


 per year since the year 2004, marking the strongest 


 performance in two decades. Between 2004 and 2007, global oil 


 consumption grew by 3.9 percent, driven largely by rising 


 demand in emerging markets that are both growing rapidly and 


 shifting toward oil-intensive activities.


It continues to say:




 China, India, and the Middle East are among the fastest 


 growing in the world; together they have accounted for nearly 


 two-thirds of the rise in world oil consumption since 2004.


The report also states:




 Since 2003, world oil consumption growth has averaged 1.8 


 percent per year, representing an estimated 1 million barrels 


 per day in 2008.


On the supply side, on the other side of the equation, the report 
also details how the worldwide supply of oil is inadequate. Both non-
OPEC and OPEC supplies are failing to keep pace with increasing demand.

The report states:




 In the past 3 years, non-OPEC production growth has slowed 


 to levels well below historical averages, and world surplus 


 capacity has fallen below historical norms. Preliminary 


 inventory data also shows that the Organization for Economic 


 Cooperation and Development (OECD) stocks have fallen below 


 1996-2002 levels.


The report continues:




 World oil consumption growth has simply outpaced non-OPEC 


 production growth every year since 2003. OPEC production is 


 also falling behind.


The report describes the failure to meet what they call the ''call on 
OPEC,'' which is the difference between global demand for oil and oil 
produced by non-OPEC countries.




 Since 2003, OPEC oil production has grown by only 2.4 


 million barrels per day while the ''call on OPEC'' has 


 increased by 4.4 million barrels per day. As a result, the 


 world oil market balance has tightened significantly.


Recently, the President's Working Group on Financial Markets 
reinforced the Interagency Task Force's conclusion. This working group 
consists of the Secretary of the Treasury, Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, U.S. Security and Exchange Commission, and the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

In a recent letter to congressional leadership, the Working Group on 
Financial Markets stated:




 Prices appear to be reflecting tight global supplies and 


 the growing world demand for oil, particularly in emerging 


 economies.


The Interagency Task Force and the President's Financial Working 
Group


have concluded what several Members of Congress and, I think, what the 
majority of the American people have known for a long time: we have a 
supply and demand problem. The solution to that problem is to find more 
energy, to produce more and to use less.

Now, with regard to the supply solution, we have lots of solutions 
that are out there. We have talked about the North Slope of Alaska. We 
know there are about 10 billion barrels of oil on the North Slope of 
Alaska. We have had numerous votes since I have been in the Senate, and 
prior to that in my service in the House, on opening the North Slope of 
Alaska to more production. Every time, it gets defeated by the 
opponents.

In fact, in 1995, it was actually passed by Congress, and it was at 
the time vetoed by President Clinton. If it had not been vetoed back 
then, we would have an additional 1 million barrels of oil in the 
United States each and every single day.

Ironically, we hear the same arguments against that today that we 
heard back then: that it will take 5 to 10 years to develop it. Well, 
that is exactly the argument that was used in the debate 10 years ago. 
If we had acted then, now, 10 years later, we would have that extra 1 
million barrels of oil a day available to us, which is the equivalent 
of about what we get from Venezuela.

The Outer Continental Shelf is home to about 18 billion barrels of 
oil, and that, too, is off-limits. Some of the Outer Continental Shelf 
data is almost 30 years old. There are estimates that there are 86 
billion barrels of undiscovered reserves that exist right off our very 
own coasts.

Oil shale--there are estimates of 2 trillion barrels of oil shale 
that is currently off-limits; 800 billion barrels of that, of the U.S. 
oil shale, could be economically recoverable.

Now, Saudi Arabia has the world's largest proven reserves of oil in 
the world; that is, 263 billion barrels. The next largest is Iran with 
133 billion barrels, followed by Iraq with 115 billion barrels. Kuwait 
and Venezuela bring up the next, with 100 billion and 77 billion 
barrels, respectively.

But the point very simply is that Utah, Wyoming, and Colorado may 
have more oil than Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, and Venezuela 
combined. Right now, U.S. energy companies are ready to invest billions 
of dollars in developing this domestic research. They are not asking 
for Government funding. They are not asking for Federal financing. They 
are not asking for environmental exemptions or any kind of special 
treatment.

All they are asking for is for the U.S. Government to govern. They 
simply want consistent regulation that will allow them to move forward 
with their research. Unfortunately, this Congress has said no--no to 
ANWR, no to the Outer Continental Shelf, no to oil shale, no to coal to 
liquid, no to nuclear, no to all of the things that could lessen our 
dependence on foreign sources of energy.

Meanwhile, I think the American family is asking, why? Why will 
Congress not work to lower gas prices? Why is Congress standing in the 
way of American ingenuity? Why is Congress limiting access to our 
resources while we send, Americans send, $1.6 billion each and every 
single day outside the United States for imported oil to petro 
dictators around the world, where we are propping up and enriching 
people in places such as Iran and Venezuela who have nothing but 
hostile intentions toward our country?


Well, it is past time for Congress to act on a supply solution. It is 
time for us to deal with this issue of our supply, and it is also 
important that we deal with the issue of demand because, as I mentioned 
earlier, when you are talking about impacting supply and demand, you 
can do one of two things. You can affect supply by increasing domestic 
production or you can affect the demand side by using less energy. I 
think the solution consists of both, but neither are getting a vote in 
the Senate.

Congress must invest in advanced technology, batteries and hydrogen 
fuel cells. Those are new technologies that we have to support, and we 
need to continue to invest in renewable fuels. There has not been a 
bigger advocate in the Senate than I am of renewable energy. It is 
already reducing domestic demand for traditional petroleum by about 
130,000 gallons per day.

We also need to address America's fleet of vehicles. Last year, 
Congress raised the vehicle efficiency standards by 40 percent to 35 
miles per gallon for cars and light trucks. I think we can and we must 
do more. We should extend the tax credits for fuel-efficient hybrid 
vehicles.

I believe Congress should create a new tax credit for next-generation 
electric plug-in hybrid vehicles which can go 20 to 40 miles before 
using an internal combustion engine.

In addition to tax credits, Congress should require the production of 
flex-fuel vehicles. This week, a tripartisan group of Senators, led by 
Senator Brownback, introduced a bill that would dramatically change our 
transportation sector. Senators Brownback, Lieberman, Salazar, Collins, 
and I have introduced the Open Fuel Standard Act, which essentially 
requires that starting in 2012, 50 percent of new vehicles be flex-fuel 
vehicles that are warranted to operate on gasoline, on ethanol, on 
methanol, or on biodiesel.

This requirement increases 10 percent each year until 2015 when 80 
percent of new vehicles would be required to operate on renewable fuel.

We will never break OPEC's monopoly over our fuel supply without 
enacting bold policies. And the one I just mentioned is an example of 
such a policy. That bill would give consumers a choice at the pump and 
give all consumers the option of purchasing cheaper, homegrown fuel 
such as ethanol and biodiesel when it comes to addressing their energy 
needs.

But the fact is, as I noted in the study that I cited, we cannot 
solve America's energy problem by simply dealing with a narrow 
solution, a minimalist solution such as that which has been put on the 
floor by the Democratic leadership in the Senate. What they have 
attempted to do is to block the consideration of amendments that would 
address those other issues that I think are so important to this 
debate. There is not anything in this bill that was put forward by the 
Democratic leadership that reduces the dangerous dependence that we 
have on foreign energy. Now 60 percent of our energy is coming from 
outside the United States. There is not one thing in this bill that 
affects that.

They can talk about lawsuits. They can talk about taxing oil 
companies. You can talk about regulating, further regulating the 
commodities markets. I am all for some of the things that are being 
proposed with regard to speculation and the commodities market. I, 
frankly, think there are things in the bill that are good.

But the bottom line is, it does nothing. It does nothing to affect 
the fundamental rule of supply and demand, which, as I just noted, is 
what is driving energy prices higher in this country. And if we try to 
do something in the Senate or in Congress to address energy in this 
country and the tremendous economic impact it is having on American 
families and businesses without going at this fundamental basic issue 
of increasing our domestic supply or domestic production and reducing 
our demand, we will not have done anything meaningful for the American 
people to address the issue that is impacting their pocketbooks more 
than anything else today; and that is, the high price of gasoline.

If you are serious about getting the commodities futures market to 
reflect or to bring down the futures price for energy stocks and all 
this trading that is going on, the way to do that is to send a clear, 
unequivocal signal to the energy markets that America is serious, that 
American ingenuity and hard work and our entrepreneurship in this 
country--that we are serious about increasing the domestic supply of 
energy that we have, about increasing domestic production because the 
market will interpret that.

The market looks down the road and says: OK, in the future, what is 
the price of oil going to be based upon the current supply of oil and 
the current demand?

If we are serious about increasing supply and reducing demand, the 
market will reflect that. We will see lower prices per barrel of oil, 
per gallon of gasoline, and some relief for hard-working American 
families and small businesses taking on tremendous water in their 
personal households and in the


needs they have to meet for families because they are spending all 
their money, literally, to fill their cars with gasoline and to pay for 
the high cost of energy. It is affecting literally every sector of the 
economy.

South Dakota, as my colleague from Wyoming spoke to earlier, is a 
vastly rural State and sparsely populated, heavily dependent upon 
transportation. The energy issue impacts in a dramatic way our ability 
to grow our economy and create jobs. I hope the debate today will 
include more than only a narrow issue and will get to the fundamental 
issue of supply and demand, that we can have an open debate in which we 
may offer amendments so this issue will be addressed.