# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `e39a59ee10edf9e2dba83f23c23a389e`
`Mr. MARTINEZ — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. MARTINEZ. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Missouri for 
his steadfast direction on this very important issue to the national 
security of our country and for the great work he does in our 
Intelligence Committee. But I also know he is someone who not only 
looks at this issue as it relates to the safety of the American people, 
but he also has had, as you might say, a little skin in the game. He 
has had his son over there on more than one occasion. So he is someone 
who speaks not only as a terrific Senator but as a father of someone 
who has been on the frontlines of this battle.

So I, too, rise in opposition to both Feingold proposals. I believe 
this is a time when anything other than retreat is the order of the 
day. It is odd we should come to this point at this point in time. Why, 
once again, after now repeated and repeated attempts without success to 
insist on a withdrawal and a retreat and a defeat, do we come back to 
revisit this very subject?

So I rise in opposition to the Feingold measure. The measure requires 
that the administration develop a strategy ensuring the deployments do 
not undermine military readiness or homeland security--which that is 
what they are about; they are about homeland security--and that Reserve 
units are not deployed more than once every 4 years and regular units 
not more than once every 2 years.

The fact of the matter is much of what this Feingold proposal--the 
current one--suggests or asks is information that the sponsors of this 
legislation, if they truly just seek to obtain that information, would 
find in very comprehensive documents that are already available.

There is something called a Quadrennial Defense Review, something 
else called the National Military Strategy. Also, there is the National 
Security Strategy. And there are many other documents such as these 
that are already available. These documents exist so we can have a 
fuller view of the challenges we face and the assets and plans we have 
in place to defeat the enemies of America.

I would further suggest that one of the key tools in the fight 
against al-Qaida is FISA, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. 
That is something both the military and nonmilitary intelligence 
agencies use to track terror suspects. It is probably the single most 
effective tool we have in making arrests and disrupting terrorist 
operations.

The Protect America Act, nearly 2 weeks ago--which updated FISA--
expired because the Congress failed to act. The Senate acted, the House 
did not. As a result, we run a serious risk of losing the cooperation 
of the partners we rely on for gathering intelligence. As the 9/11 
Commission and others have pointed out, small gaps in intelligence or 
the inability to connect the dots can have catastrophic consequences.

Because of the uncertainty this Congress has helped to create, we are 
running the risk of losing these partners and missing out on 
information that could be vital to securing this Nation. It is 
imperative for our intelligence community to have every tool they need 
to collect intelligence at their disposal.

The core authorities provided by the Protect America Act have helped 
us to obtain exactly the type of information we need to keep America 
safe, and it is essential Congress reauthorize the act's core 
authorities, while also extending liability protection to those 
companies that assisted our Nation following 9/11.

As a member of the President's Cabinet on the fateful day of 
September 11, 2001, I can readily recall what this city was like on 
September 12. We could still see the smoke rising from the Pentagon 
building--that unbelievable sight of destruction, of death. It was a 
time when the Nation was assured we were about to be hit again. The 
decision was made that we needed to act, that we needed to move forward 
to try to protect our Nation. And thank the Good Lord, until today our 
Nation has been kept safe. That has not been by accident. That has not 
been just by fate. It has been because we have been aggressive in 
intelligence gathering, and we have been aggressive in taking the fight 
to the enemies of America.

Some in this body have argued the expiration of the Protect America 
Act has not weakened the intelligence community's ability to conduct 
surveillance and have cited an Executive order as a legitimate 
substitute for the act. I do not agree with that. I disagree.

An Executive order is not always as effective, efficient or safe for 
our intelligence professionals as the conditions accorded to them under 
the Protect America Act. In fact, this Executive order failed to aid 
our intelligence community in a particular case prior to 9/11. One of 
the September 11 hijackers communicated with a known overseas terrorist 
while living in the United States. But because that collection was 
conducted under an Executive order, the intelligence community could 
not identify the domestic end of the communication and, further, were 
unable to collect the information that may have given greater insight 
into the planning of the 9/11 attacks.

In fact, this was cited as one of the central criticisms to the 
congressional joint inquiry that examined the intelligence failures 
leading up to the September 11 attacks.

In the absence of the Protect America Act, others have argued 
employing the outdated provisions of FISA would be sufficient to ensure 
there is no dropoff in the way we gather foreign and domestic 
intelligence. Unfortunately, using these particular provisions accorded 
under the FISA Act--unlike the Protect America Act--would impair our 
ability to collect information on foreign intelligence targets located 
overseas.

FISA was designed to govern intelligence surveillance of persons in 
the United States where the fourth amendment mandates that there must 
be probable cause before surveillance can begin. While this makes sense 
when targeting suspects in the United States for surveillance, it 
doesn't for surveillance of overseas targets and could result in the 
loss of potentially vital intelligence as our intelligence officials 
wait for the process to occur. It could also divert the attention of 
our linguists and analysts away from their core role, which is to 
protect the Nation from the task of providing detailed facts for FISA 
Court applications.

It is false to assume Congress's amendments to FISA are sufficient 
and that there is no longer a need to modernize the act. This past 
August, Congress amended the Protect America Act on a basis that runs 
counter to this particular statement. Since its inception in 1978, 
there have been many advancements to communications that have to be 
reflected, that have to be updated, and that have to be a part of FISA.

There has been an issue of concern also about Congress's failure to 
provide liability protection for private sector firms which helped the 
Federal Government in defending the Nation following the September 11 
attacks. This was part of the Senate bill which had strong bipartisan 
support. Not providing liability protection, some have argued, will 
have no effect on our intelligence collection capabilities. The fact is 
that these companies acted in good faith, and they acted in good faith 
when they were called upon to assist our intelligence professionals in 
keeping our Nation safe after our Nation was attacked.

I once again want to remind us about September 12. What did we feel 
like? What were our thoughts at that time? What would we not have done 
to ensure that America was kept safe from another savage attack? By the 
way, our enemies are still at it. Nothing has changed in terms of their 
intentions. What has changed is their capabilities, because we have 
been on the offense.


What has changed is America's ability to defend itself because we have 
been protecting ourselves.

It was the right thing for these companies at the time to assist 
their Nation in need, and it was the right thing for us to do to 
provide them with immunity from the potential barrage of lawsuits they 
could face. It was the fair and the just thing to do. Private party 
assistance is necessary and critical to ensure that the intelligence 
community can collect the information needed to protect our country 
from attack.

In a report on S. 2248, the Senate Intelligence Committee agreed when 
stating:




 The Intelligence Committee cannot obtain the intelligence 


 it needs without assistance--

from our telecommunications partners.

Exposing the private sector to potential billion dollar class action 
lawsuits would set a dangerous precedent after they worked admirably 
with the folks in our intelligence community to defend our country. If 
we are unable to count on their support in the future, we cannot 
continue to pursue terrorists who are still very much interested in 
attacking us again.

Yesterday, testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee, 
Admiral McConnell was very clear. This is necessary. It is essential 
for Admiral McConnell and for our intelligence community to be able to 
do their work. We have a solemn obligation to keep to the American 
people, which is to keep them safe and to remain proactive in 
identifying threats before they materialize.

Through the benefit of hindsight, we have identified some areas where 
the bureaucracy has failed the American people, and we must work to fix 
them by ensuring our intelligence officials have everything they need 
to stay on the offense in the war against our enemies.

One thing I think we can agree on is that Iraq is the pivotal front 
on our global war on terror. That is where we are fighting al-Qaida. We 
fight them there so we don't have to fight them on our soil.

Osama bin Laden has called Iraq the ''central front'' against the war 
on America and the West, and al-Qaida in Iraq shares that goal. Our 
soldiers are on the front lines of this war on terror, and it is our 
duty to give them everything we can to help them achieve their 
objectives.

Admiral McConnell yesterday was talking about how this particular act 
could help in the case of kidnapped soldiers on the front and that this 
inability would be a tremendous detriment to our ability to keep our 
soldiers safe on the battlefield.

I understand the bill we are on today and the legislation we 
considered earlier this week are aimed at pulling United States troops 
out of Iraq immediately, precipitously, irresponsibly, and signaling 
defeat. If we are seeking conditions in Iraq today such as those we saw 
a year ago--presurge--then I could understand why we would be debating 
this. When we were here a year ago, many of my friends on the other 
side of the aisle were ready to admit defeat. The distinguished 
majority announced that the United States had ''lost'' the war in Iraq, 
there was no way to win, and that we should pull our troops out as soon 
as possible. Presidential candidates still continue to insist that an 
immediate pullout is the only logical answer that a Commander in Chief 
should take.


A lot has changed since a year ago. In February of 2007, 
ethnosectarian violence accounted for nearly 800 deaths in Baghdad. So 
far this month, ethnosectarian-related deaths number below 40, a 95-
percent decrease. During the same period in Baghdad, suicide attacks 
went from 12 a month to 4 this past January, a 66-percent decrease. 
Attacks have decreased in 17 of 18 provinces in Iraq. IED detonations 
are down by 45 percent in Baghdad since February of 2007.

This is to say that the war wasn't lost. Admitting defeat was 
premature, if politically expedient, at the time. We did not lose the 
war. The surge is effective. Our troops, as we knew they would, did 
rise to the challenge. By the way, it is not only our troops, it is our 
commanders. It is General Petraeus. It is the brilliant strategies that 
have been followed.

No one wants to have our troops in Iraq any longer than necessary. I 
look forward to the day when young people I know who are paying this 
country's duty there can come home to their families and to their young 
children. We are there because our military presence is necessary. It 
is necessary for our national security.

The troop withdrawal measure, Feingold No. 1, was debated this week 
and would cut off funds for combat deployments in Iraq in 120 days. Not 
only would it cut off money for our troops, it would cut off any chance 
at continuing the political process that has begun to take hold in 
Iraq.

The atmosphere that the surge has created in Iraq has allowed 
political progress to take place. Sure, the voices of defeatism would 
say we have made no political progress. The fact is from time to time 
we get a little bogged down in the Senate, even after 200 years of 
meeting together and after 200 years of relative peace and tranquility. 
But progress is being made politically.

This month, on February 13, the Council of Representatives passed 
three key pieces of legislation: the amnesty law, the provincial powers 
law, and a fiscal budget.

The amnesty law: The Government of Iraq's general amnesty law 
represents a benchmark in facilitating political reconciliation and the 
rule of law of Iraq. It addresses the scope of eligibility for amnesty 
for Iraqis in Iraqi detention facilities, whether they have been 
brought to trial or not. The law exempts from this amnesty those who 
have committed specific serious crimes such as premeditated murder or 
kidnapping or those who are subject to the death penalty.

The provincial powers law: Along with the elections law, the 
provincial powers law provides the establishment of a new provincial 
election by October of 2008 and defines the authorities of the federal 
government in relation to the provinces.

The fiscal budget: The $48 billion Iraqi budget would represent a 17-
percent increase in spending over last year's budget, with a 23-percent 
increase in security expenditures. They are beginning to pay for 
defending their country. Capital funds allocated to the 15 provinces 
will increase over 50 percent, from $2.1 billion to $3.3 billion, 
reflecting the improved budget execution performance by the provinces 
in 2007.

Democrats' proposals for a quick withdrawal of American forces 
without regard to consequences will leave America less safe and 
undermine our national interests. Moreover, disclosing to al-Qaida our 
plan for defeating them is a recipe for defeat of our own troops. 
General Petraeus tells us that the effective fight against al-Qaida 
begins in Iraq. General Petraeus says:




 We have an enormous national interest in Iraq, first of 


 all, in helping the Iraqis achieve its objectives, our 


 objectives of a secure, stable Iraq, connected into the 


 region. Not a regional problem, not a base for al-Qaida from 


 which to train and export terror. . . .


And, I would add further, one of the possibilities of a triumphant 
Iraq, of a triumphant United States in Iraq, of a state that could be a 
stable democracy in the heart of the region, and what a difference it 
could make as an example to other nations.

I am still hopeful enough to believe that this can be achieved, and 
certainly when we look to where we were a year or so ago to where we 
are today, a lot has changed and a lot has happened.

I see my colleague from Colorado patiently waiting.

I yield the floor.