# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `e3a77be5d3156cb05df3815628edb752`
`Mr. DODD â€” 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines 
have performed valiantly in Iraq in the face of great adversity. The 
costs of this war have been great to them and our Nation. Over 3,300 
brave American servicemembers have been killed in Iraq over 30 from my 
own State of Connecticut.

To date, over $500 billion has been approved by Congress for military 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, not including the $95.5 billion 
included in the conference agreement being debated today or the $141.7 
billion in additional funding already requested by the administration 
for fiscal year 2008.

In addition, because of the war, our forces have been drained of 
critical combat gear and training time, adding another element to the 
costs of this war--our military's combat readiness. Two-thirds of the 
Army in the United States and 88 percent of our National Guard are 
reporting 'not ready' for duty, largely due to equipment and training 
shortfalls.

Now, as we have entered the fifth year of the Iraq war, it is long 
past time for a course correction. Rather than continue abetting the 
administration's efforts to escalate our entanglement in Iraq's civil 
war, it is time for Congress to assert itself and heed the American 
people's call for change.

The conference report before us today takes the first steps toward 
that change. While I wish it would have included stronger language to 
immediately begin withdrawing combat troops from Iraq and limiting the 
mission there to counterterrorism, training and equipping Iraqi troops 
and force protection for remaining U.S. personnel, it does for the 
first time set some new goals for this administration and the Iraqi 
Government that will mandate a change of course. For the first time it 
demands real accountability from the President to take action to 
restore our military's readiness which has been hollowed out as a 
result of his policies. And this bill finally provides critical 
resources for combat gear and protective equipment that the Bush-
Cheney-Rumsfeld administration has consistently shortchanged in their 
budget proposals.

Regrettably, as my colleagues know, the President has already said 
that he will refuse to sign this legislation into law. He has announced 
his intention to veto this bill because after 4 years of a disastrous 
war policy, escalating combat deaths, and growing instability in the 
region, he insists that his is the only way. It is disheartening that 
President Bush does not see or will not admit that his policy in Iraq 
is a failure.

In plowing ahead on the current course in Iraq, the President has 
rejected the advice of experts from across the political spectrum, from 
the Baker-Hamilton Report, and from members of Congress, all of whom 
have urged him to change the course in Iraq, to diminish our military 
footprint there, and to start a surge of diplomacy in the region. Like 
all my colleagues, I want to see success in Iraq. I wish that the 
President's policies were working. I wish that U.S. combat forces were 
able to restore security to Baghdad and to other parts of Iraq. I wish 
that the President had not mismanaged this war from day one. I wish 
that we had deployed enough troops on the ground to secure the peace at 
the outset. I wish that Secretary Rumsfeld hadn't run the Coalition 
Provisional Authority like a staffing agency for Republican political 
operatives, displacing countless U.S. Foreign Service professionals in 
the beginning of the war. I wish we hadn't disbanded the Iraqi Army and 
that we hadn't allowed looting. And I wish that our surge of 30,000 
more men and women in uniform into Iraq could be successful in 
stabilizing that country.

But now is not the time for wishful thinking. Now is the time to 
address the real facts on the ground. This conflict cannot be resolved 
by increased military action. It requires a coherent, broad-based 
strategy to promote the political reconciliation necessary to secure 
the future for Iraq.

The bill before us begins that process. If the President determines 
that the Iraqis are not making progress on key political, security, and 
economic benchmarks, then, under this legislation, the redeployment of 
American troops would begin this summer. If, on the other hand, the 
President determines that the Iraqis are complying with the benchmarks 
set forth in the legislation, then the redeployment of American forces 
would begin later in the fall of 2007. These reasonable and responsible 
timetables and benchmarks will force the President to change his 
strategy and will incentivize the Iraqi Government to take difficult 
but necessary steps toward reconciliation, power sharing, and security.

This bill also allows for a limited ongoing presence of U.S. forces 
in Iraq for the specific purposes of training and equipping reliable 
Iraqi security forces, carrying out counterterrorism operations within 
Iraq, and providing force protection, because we understand that these 
vital components will be necessary to ensure a stable and secure Iraq 
even after our combat troops have been redeployed. Iraqis will continue 
to need some limited American assistance, and it is in our and Iraq's 
national interests for that limited support to continue.

Exactly 1 day after President Bush disingenuously charged the 
Democratic Congress for causing what he called ''unacceptable'' delays 
in troops returning home, Secretary Gates announced that he was 
immediately extending the tour lengths of those units sent to Iraq to 
15 months--3 months longer than before. In addition, 13,000 National 
Guard troops from Arkansas, Indiana, Oklahoma, and Ohio, as well as 
other States, were recently told to prepare to be deployed to Iraq.

As a result of 4 years of war in Iraq, our Army has been stretched to 
its breaking point.

It is time to say, ''enough is enough.'' And with this supplemental 
bill, Congress is taking a big step in that direction. This bill holds 
the President directly responsible for units being deployed who are not 
''fully mission capable'', by requiring him to waive requirements that 
mandate that units fully restock their depleted equipment inventories 
and restore their mission readiness prior to deployment. It includes 
funding for critical equipment, including mine-resistant, ambush-
protection vehicles which would dramatically lower the number of 
injuries and casualties sustained by our troops. And it includes 
billions of dollars for health care for our wounded veterans, many of


whom return home with debilitating and life-altering injuries. They 
have sacrificed everything for this Nation, and at the very least we 
owe them the best health care available.


Sadly, there is no magic formula for fixing the myriad problems in 
Iraq, as the Baker-Hamilton Commission rightly pointed out. But it is 
critical that Iraqis make progress on reconciliation and security and 
that the Government improves the living conditions of its citizens. 
Iraq's neighbors and regional leaders must also play a role in finding 
such a solution. The United States and Iraq's neighbors all have long-
term interests in the region, and a broken Iraq does not advance those 
interests.

With this supplemental bill, Congress is offering the President an 
opportunity to change our course in Iraq, to listen and respond to the 
will of the American people, to support the men and women sacrificing 
their lives there, and to provide for a responsible change in strategy 
in Iraq.

It is also vital that we make America more resilient here at home. 
This bill begins to do just that, in providing $325 million to protect 
the millions of Americans who ride public transportation each day.

Our Nation's public transit systems are inadequately prepared to 
minimize the threat and impact of potential terrorist attacks. Since 
the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the Federal Government has 
invested nearly $24 billion in aviation security--protecting the 1.8 
million people who fly on an average day. At the same time, our 
National Government has invested only $386 million, before the 110th 
Congress began, in transit security to protect the 14 million people 
who ride transit on an average workday. Put another way, since 2001, 
our Nation has spent over $7.50 per passenger on aviation security but 
less than one penny per transit rider on transit security. I am not 
suggesting that we ought to be investing equally, but clearly this is 
not the appropriate balance.

As chairman of the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
Committee, I have made improving our national security a top priority. 
The very first hearing that I held as chairman focused on increasing 
the security of our Nation's 14 million daily transit passengers. The 
very first legislation that the committee considered during my 
chairmanship was the Public Transportation Terrorism Prevention Act of 
2007, which was reported by the Banking Committee unanimously on 
February 8. The legislation authorizes the distribution of $3.5 billion 
in security funds, over the next 3 fiscal years, on the basis of risk 
directly to transit agencies.

The Public Transportation Terrorism Prevention Act of 2007 was 
included as title XV of the 9/11 bill, which the Senate passed on March 
13. Senator Shelby and I worked with Senator Byrd and Senator Cochran 
to include language in the legislation to allow for such sums as 
necessary to be appropriated in this fiscal year to address the 
critical needs of our Nation's transit systems. The $325 million 
included in this appropriations act is a significant investment toward 
our goal of better securing our Nation's rail and transit systems. This 
investment builds on the $175 million that was included in the fiscal 
year 2007 continuing resolution. I once again thank all of the members 
of the Banking and Appropriations Committees who have worked so hard to 
advance us to where we are today.

This bill also continues congressional efforts to help the citizens 
of Mississippi and Louisiana rebuild their lives after the catastrophic 
effects of Hurricane Katrina by including more than $1.3 billion to 
fund flood and storm damage reduction projects in affected areas.

Finally, I want to take a few brief moments to discuss the minimum 
wage increase provision included in this bill. It has been nearly 10 
years since millions of hard-working men and women have seen their 
wages go up. During that time, inflation has eroded the purchasing 
power of families being paid the minimum wage. In fact, the real value 
of the minimum wage has declined $4 below what it was nearly 40 years 
ago, in 1968. It is currently at its lowest inflation-adjusted level in 
more than 50 years. During the past 10 years, while the minimum wage 
remained unchanged, the cost of housing, food, health care, education, 
transportation, and energy has increased.

We cannot reduce poverty if we don't tackle raising the minimum wage. 
It is simply outrageous that so many Americans live in poverty, and it 
is long overdue that we take action to reduce the inexcusable and 
unconscionably high levels of poverty in this country. The language of 
the Fair Minimum Wage Act, which is included in this bill, will provide 
a three-step increase in wages over 26 months from the current level of 
$5.15 per hour to $7.25 per hour. This additional $4,400 per year would 
allow a low-income family of three to buy 8 months of rent, 15 months 
of groceries, 19 months of utilities, 20 months of childcare, or more 
than 24 months of health insurance.

I urge the President to seize this opportunity to make America and 
Iraq stronger and safer. I sincerely hope he will reconsider his 
decision to veto this bill when it arrives on his desk. Such a veto 
would be an affirmation of the status quo in America, a status which 
this Nation can simply no longer afford.