---
---

# None
## `e3a932c90cc00c6c493d79327887aea2`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I would like to insert into the Record an 
article from the Washington Post this morning entitled, ''White House 
Isn't Backing Iraq Study Group Follow-Up,'' and points out that the 
House voted 355-69 last month to reestablish the study group, but the 
President is blocking it.









[From washingtonpost.com, July 12, 2007]






White House Isn't Backing Iraq Study Group Follow-Up














 (By Robin Wright)




 Despite an overwhelming House vote last month to revive the 


 Iraq Study Group, the White House has blocked reconvening the 


 bipartisan panel to provide a second independent assessment 


 of the military and political situation in Iraq, said several 


 sources involved in the panel's December 2006 report.



 Co-Chairman Lee H. Hamilton, several panel members and the 


 U.S. Institute of Peace, which ran the study group, were 


 willing to participate, according to Hamilton and the 


 congressionally funded think tank. But the White House did 


 not give the green light for co-chairman and former secretary 


 of state James A. Baker III to participate, and Baker is 


 unwilling to lead a second review without President Bush's 


 approval, according to members of the original panel and 


 sources close to Baker.



 White House support is critical for any follow-up review. 


 ''It is not likely to happen unless the White House approves 


 it,'' Hamilton, a Democratic former congressman from Indiana, 


 said in an interview. ''The group can't go ahead without its 


 concurrence or acquiescence, as we need travel support and 


 access to documents.''



 The White House does not want independent assessments to 


 rival the upcoming Sept. 15 reports by Gen. David H. Petraeus 


 and Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker, U.S. officials said.



 The White House indicated that it sees no need for an 


 immediate follow-up to the report, noting that it is 


 implementing a strategy consistent with many of the panel's 


 recommendations. ''The next report due in September by 


 General Petraeus must include an assessment of our objectives 


 as they relate to Baker-Hamilton. September will be the 


 appropriate time to determine how that strategy is 


 progressing,'' said National Security Council spokesman 


 Gordon Johndroe. ''We look forward to remaining in contact 


 with members of the group.''



 The House voted 355 to 69 last month to allocate $1 million 


 for the U.S. Institute of Peace to reestablish the group of 


 10 prominent Republicans and Democrats, which included former 


 Supreme Court justice Sandra Day O'Connor, former defense 


 secretary William J. Perry and, until his appointment, 


 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates.



 Congressional sponsors called the White House's reluctance 


 a missed opportunity. ''The ISG provides an opportunity to 


 bring the country together. . . . If you had a serious 


 illness, you would want a second opinion. We are at war. You 


 want to have the best minds looking at a problem,'' said Rep. 


 Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.), who proposed the ISG and co-sponsored 


 the bill to reconvene it. ''Having another independent, 


 bipartisan assessment will take out the venom in the 


 debate.''



 Rep. Christopher Shays (R-Conn.), another co-sponsor, 


 warned that the White House's move would cost further support 


 among Republicans.



 ''It's really shortsighted,'' he said. ''It's going to 


 further isolate the president. . . . You can't rely just on 


 Petraeus and Crocker. They are good people, but they're still 


 in the thick of battle and you need the view from the 


 outside. The fact the White House doesn't want it indicates 


 they are afraid of what the ISG might say.''



 The White House did not initially embrace the ISG report. 


 But it has gradually adopted key recommendations, including 


 the controversial proposal to pursue diplomatic talks with 


 Iran and Syria, the countries that have most aided or abetted 


 Iraq's insurgents and illegal militias. Last month, 23 


 Democrats and 34 Republicans co-sponsored a House bill to 


 implement all the ISG recommendations as the way forward in 


 Iraq.



 But other groups are pursuing independent reviews of U.S. 


 policy and Iraq's performance. The Iraqi Security Forces 


 Independent Assessment Commission--made up of 14 former 


 generals and defense officials--is examining Iraqi military 


 capabilities. The panel, which is mandated by Congress, is 


 chaired by retired Gen. James L. Jones. The group is 


 currently in Iraq; its report is due in October.



 The Government Accountability Office is doing a separate 


 congressionally mandated study on the 18 benchmarks set for 


 the Iraqi government to meet. And the U.S. Institute of Peace 


 is reconvening many of the experts the ISG originally relied 


 on to discuss Iraq's future.


Mr. Speaker, I yield 4/1/2/ minutes to the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern).