# RECOUNTING REASONS FOR VOTING IN FAVOR OF 2002 RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING  USE OF MILITARY FORCE IN IRAQ
## `e3c44e5930260fda2bed037b76586a54`
`Mrs. TAUSCHER â€” 18 January 2007`

---


Mrs. TAUSCHER. Madam Speaker, let me first thank my friend and 
colleague from California for her passion and her presence and for her 
leadership and also my other colleague Barbara Lee and for Lynn Woolsey 
and so many of my colleagues who have been indefatigable, unrelenting 
and brilliant in their insistence that we continue to put pressure on 
the administration and the President specifically for the litany of 
mistakes that have been made in Iraq, but at the same time holding 
deeply in our hearts the fighting men and women that come from all of 
our neighborhoods, come from all of our communities. For your 
patriotism, I cannot thank you enough. For your leadership and 
friendship, I will always be indebted.

Madam Speaker, I cannot and will not support putting more American 
troops on the ground in Iraq. I stand here today more convinced than 
ever that the President's so-called new plan to send over 21,000 
additional American troops to Iraq will only lead to further chaos.

My opposition to this troop surge is built upon years of hearings in 
the House Armed Services Committee, where I serve as subcommittee 
chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, congressional briefings 
and five trips to the region, including three to Iraq, witnessing the 
war firsthand and speaking with our troops and commanders on the 
ground.

Sadly, the President has gotten it very wrong every step of the way. 
Yet he continues to ask us to trust him.

When the Republican-controlled Congress was rushing a vote to 
authorize the war in the middle of 2002's campaign season, I joined my 
friend Dennis Kucinich to call on the Republican leadership to take the 
politics out of the vote, take the decision to send our troops into 
harm's way seriously and postpone the vote until after the election.

We wrote to our colleagues in October of 2002: ''It is incumbent upon 
us to address the matters of national security and decisions through 
the reasoned and deliberate process afforded us by our Constitution. 
This becomes particularly important when these decisions could possibly 
mean putting our young servicemen and women in harm's way. This is not 
a process that can be rushed for the sake of political expediency.''

Our best attempts failed. Congress was rushed to a vet, and we had no 
opportunity to sort through what we now know was the Bush 
administration's personal collection of cherry-picked or just plain 
false intelligence.

The President made it clear that he wanted to rush to invade Iraq and 
prevent international weapons inspectors from finishing their job.

I spoke out at the time saying, ''We must consider every peaceful 
alternative and contemplate every possible outcome before we turn to 
force.''

Our warnings were again ignored. In February of 2003, I co-authored 
legislation that would have required the President to submit a public 
report to Congress prior to initiating military action in Iraq.

Our bill said: ''The United States should not proceed with unilateral 
or preemptive military action in Iraq, but if we do have to go to war 
to disarm Saddam, Congress needs to be sure there are sensible plans 
that will not compromise our ability to prosecute the War on Terror 
elsewhere or further destabilize an already volatile region.''

That same month, when then-Secretary of State Colin Powell presented 
the United Nations with the Bush administration's case on Iraq's 
weapons of mass destruction, I again said, ''I continue to believe that 
the United States should not proceed with unilateral or preemptive 
military action.''

After the invasion, I remained concerned about the Bush 
administration's rush to war, and in July 2003 I authored legislation 
to create a select committee to hold public hearings to investigate 
several aspects of intelligence, including whether intelligence 
supported the claim that Iraq was an imminent threat to the United 
States, questioning the accuracy of intelligence that led the 
administration to believe Iraq was working with al Qaeda, and 
questioning the role of the Office of Special Plans in the Pentagon.

The Republican-controlled Congress at the time would not allow my 
bill to see the light of day.

In September 2003, the President requested an additional $87 billion 
to finance the war. In response, I authored legislation calling for 
explanations, noting that ''President Bush has not yet provided 
Congress with a detailed plan that outlines the strategic objectives of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom.''


I have sent dozens of letters to the President, Secretary Rice, 
Secretary Rumsfeld and others over the past 4/1/2/ years urging them to 
explain our mission and exit strategy for Iraq. I have offered 
suggestions to stabilize Iraq and bring our troops home sooner. Yet I 
have received few answers.

Last week, I watched the President plead his case to the American 
people, trying to justify why more troops will save his failed policy. 
But yet again I was disappointed by the stubbornness exhibited by a 
President that has failed in Iraq every step of the way.

I have stated throughout the timeline of the war that the Commander-
in-Chief has the responsibility to define a well-articulated mission 
that has the support of the American people and an exit strategy to 
bring our troops home sooner and safer. The President has neither.

Top military commanders in Iraq, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group and 
the American people all agree that sending more troops to Iraq will not 
end the civil war. They understand that we should immediately begin a 
strategic redeployment of U.S. troops in conjunction with diplomacy 
that forces Iraq's neighbors to step up as responsible regional 
partners.

Adding additional troops further prevents the Iraqi government from 
taking responsibility for securing their own country. If the President 
sidesteps the Congress, he does this at his own peril, and sadly, he 
does it with the men and women of our Armed Forces and their families 
paying the highest price.

This is why I am an original cosponsor of the Meehan legislation that 
requires the President to ask Congress


for an up-or-down vote if he plans to raise troop levels in Iraq.

I am not advocating cutting funds for the troops while they are in 
harm's way, but I am an advocate of conditioning all further spending 
for the Iraq War based on the Iraqis meeting security and political 
benchmarks and establishing a plan for the redeployment of our troops.

I will continue to challenge the President to abandon his flawed 
troop surge policy, and I urge all of my colleagues to do the same. We 
owe it to our troops, to the American people and to our conscience.