---
---

# RECOGNIZING 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF RADIO FREE EUROPE/RADIO LIBERTY
## `e3c46190e642052d865a73510005026f`
`Mr. ROYCE — 3 November 2009`

---


Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady for yielding, and I 
rise in support of this resolution, of which I am a cosponsor, and to 
note that for 60 years, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has been 
basically a free press for societies suffering authoritarian rule, and 
that is the intent.

The RFE/RL has said that this model of surrogate broadcasting 
irritates authoritarian regimes, inspires democrats and creates greater 
space for civil society, and that is the goal. Vaclav Havel and others 
have testified to the role that the radios played in bringing down the 
Iron Curtain.

As noted in the resolution, Warsaw Pact intelligence went to great 
lengths to silence these broadcasts. We have heard some of the examples 
of the correspondents who were murdered and the headquarters that were 
bombed.

RFE/RL has expanded its work to countries that are critical to 
today's national security challenges. Shortly after September 11, the 
House passed legislation establishing Radio Free Afghanistan, RFE's 
brand in that country. Actually, I authored that legislation. And 
today, with 50 percent market share, it is the most popular radio 
station in the country, offering an alternative to the Taliban's dark 
leaflets and the type of radio that people hear in that part of Central 
Asia and South Asia from the Taliban.

The Iranian regime has targeted RFE/RL broadcasts. They have spent a


lot of money to jam those broadcasts. RFE/RL has still managed to 
provide valuable coverage of the recent uprising there, allowing 
Iranian democrats to know that they are not alone in this world.

These broadcasts are all the more important now that the 
administration has muffled itself when it comes to the Iranian 
democratic movement. As it trims back on programs supporting democracy-
seeking Iranians, one expert notes that the administration views the 
green revolution as a wrench in the works of nuclear negotiations with 
the Iranian regime.

These broadcasts could be greatly complimented by the White House 
bully pulpit. They aren't.

A divide between the broadcasters and the diplomats is not new, 
frankly. In the 1960s, Washington moved to improve relations with 
Ceausescu's Romania, despite its abysmal human rights record, but RFE 
kept a spotlight on Bucharest, irritating some of the diplomats. Today, 
it keeps a spotlight on Tehran's transgressions--the jailing, the 
abuse, the murder of those who abuse the regime.

Importantly, this resolution commends the employees and reporters of 
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty for their services and acknowledges 
their sacrifices. Just as the communist police took steps to prevent 
the truth from penetrating their house of lies, so has the Iranian 
regime.

The Iranian Government harasses the journalists for RFE/RL's Persian 
service, its headquarters in Prague, and their families back in Iran. 
Those inside Iran who might provide the station with information have 
been threatened. This fall, two young journalists with the service were 
killed and a third went into a coma when their car was struck by a 
truck outside of Prague.

This is the information war happening today. Radio Free Europe/Radio 
Liberty and its sister surrogates are keeping us in the game. As 
technology evolves, they can and need to do better, while staying true 
to their support for freedom and respect for human rights and for the 
rule of law.