---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `e3dddec2d69f6e66770e09a54ac7970e`
`Mr. INOUYE — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. INOUYE. I yield myself 10 minutes.

At the beginning of the year, the chairman of the House 
Appropriations Committee and I announced earmark reforms that go far 
beyond the transparency requirements enacted in 2007.

These reforms include a requirement for Members to post their earmark 
requests on their Web sites, make substantial reductions in the number 
and amount of earmarks compared to prior years' appropriations bills, 
and early and prompt committee announcements on which projects are 
funded in each of the annual appropriations bills.

There has never been as much transparency in the earmark process as 
there is today. In most cases, the public has had several months to 
review their elected Representatives' requests for funding. The bill on 
the floor today has 200 fewer projects and $300 million less in funding 
for Member projects than last year's bill.

I believe this is a considerable improvement to how Congress does its 
business.

As chairman of the Appropriations Committee, I welcome any 
constructive suggestions on how to improve the operations and 
efficiency of the ways in which the committee accomplishes its vital 
work.

However, those suggestions should not compromise the constitutional 
principle that the power of the purse is invested in the Congress, and 
not the executive.

We must retain the checks and balances and keep the Congress and the 
executive as separate and co-equal branches of government.

That is why I must oppose the amendment offered by the Senator from 
Arizona. It purports to increase transparency of congressional earmarks 
by subjecting all of them to full and open competition.

In reality, it exempts congressional priorities from the normal, 
lawful process of how the Department of Defense purchases equipment, 
engages services, and develops new technologies.

For example, we have included a number of earmarks for which the 
Department has negotiated contracts already in place. These contracts 
were negotiated in full compliance with the law.

Simply because Congress added funds to accelerate important programs, 
such as the TB-33 towed sonar array, handheld radios for Special 
Operations Command, advanced radars for the F-15 fighter, and virtual 
interactive training equipment for National Guard units around the 
country, the McCain amendment would require a new competition to take 
place.

This would disrupt important programs, delay procurement of valuable 
equipment, and cost the taxpayer more money.

The McCain amendment also disregards the fact that sometimes the 
Pentagon gets it wrong. There are many programs which are now in use on 
the battlefield that would not be there if the Defense Department's 
views had prevailed years ago.

Congress directed funds to the Predator unmanned aerial vehicle, 
lifesaving Chitosan bandages, and the V-22--programs that would not 
exist if Congress had not directed funds to those specific purposes.

I ask my colleagues, What do they suppose would have happened to 
those programs if the Pentagon's bureaucracy had put these programs 
through the redtape required by the McCain amendment? Would the 
Predator be attacking our enemies in Afghanistan and Iraq? Or might it 
still be an exquisite, complex system that remains on the drawing board 
year after year?

Ultimately the McCain amendment establishes two sets of acquisition 
laws: one for items requested by the President, which may be subject to 
full and open, limited or no competition at all; and another set of 
rules for items added by the Congress.

The amendment rests on the faulty assumption that the Defense 
Department is unable to conduct oversight on congressionally directed 
spending, and that earmarks do not serve valid military purposes.

In 2008, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense reviewed 
219 earmarks from the fiscal year 2007 Defense Appropriations Act.

The Inspector General determined:




 The DOD personnel we interviewed and the respondents to our 


 data call said that DOD performs oversight of earmarks 


 identical to the oversight of other expenditures.


Furthermore, of the 219 earmarks that were reviewed by the Inspector 
General, all but 4 were found to ''advance the primary mission and 
goals of the Department of Defense.''

None of these four earmarks is contained in this year's bill. Even if 
they were, none of them would be competed under the McCain amendment 
because each of those earmarks was awarded to a nonprofit institution.

Due to these shortcomings in the amendment which has been offered, I 
have proposed an alternative amendment.

My amendment insures that each earmark added by Congress to benefit a 
for-profit entity shall be subject to the very same acquisition 
regulations that apply to items requested by the President in his 
annual budget request. This proposal applies the rules of the road 
equally to Congress and the President.

The amendment I propose also contains the standard exceptions to 
competition, including small business set-asides. The McCain amendment, 
on the other hand, would eliminate these standard exemptions to 
competition for earmarks that support small businesses, minority-owned 
businesses, women-owned businesses, and service-connected disabled 
veteran-owned businesses.

My amendment is a reasonable and fair approach to balancing the 
acquisition rules as they apply to congressional spending items and 
items requested by the President. It insures that all spending items 
that are funded in this bill, regardless of who proposed them, are 
subject to the same rules for competition. I urge my colleagues to 
support my amendment and oppose the McCain amendment.

I yield the floor.