# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `e3ddf29c54e60587b4922ffa265b250c`
`Mr. GARAMENDI — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule so that we 
can get on to discussing an extremely important matter, not only the 
domestic issues that will be included in this piece of legislation 
which are absolutely essential. We do need to educate our kids. We do 
need to provide for critical domestic policies.

I also want to get to the issue of the war, particularly the war in 
Afghanistan, of which there will be some $30 billion allocated for that 
war. I strongly oppose that appropriation.

The Lee amendments, the McGovern amendments, the Obey amendments all 
come to grips with that and, in various ways, will cause us to get out 
of that war.

We have to focus laser beam-like on al Qaeda, but that doesn't mean 
that we have to engage in a counterinsurgency program in Afghanistan.

$30 billion. The Pentagon estimates that it's $875,000 per soldier in 
Afghanistan. Roughly $87,000 is enough for a well-paid teacher in 
America. That translates to 300,000 teachers. If we took that $30 
billion and used it in America, we could employ 300,000 teachers.

We have to have a strong economy. We know that economy is in 
desperate need of a well-educated workforce. Better to spend the money 
here at home. Better to focus laser beam-like on al Qaeda wherever it 
may be in this world, whether it's in Aden, whether it is in Saudi 
Arabia or whether Sudan or Afghanistan and Pakistan, but not engage in 
a terribly expensive counterinsurgency program in Afghanistan.

Some of us were around for the Vietnam War. And what this sounds like 
is another Vietnam, a quagmire in which we will ultimately extract 
ourselves with extraordinary loss of life and treasure. It's time to 
stop it right now. So I ask for an ''aye'' vote on the rule and support 
for the two amendments that we'll be dealing with.