---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION DEFICITS AND DEBT BACKGROUND
## `e3df746f1856c49affcf08a166d54c5c`
`Mr. MARSHALL — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Ross, you are wonderful to do these hour-long Blue 
Dog sessions here to give people an idea what Blue Dogs are all about 
as far as fiscal responsibility is concerned.

I think you and Mr. Pomeroy give me a little too much credit. If you 
label somebody a Ranger, it reminds me of the joke about the Ranger 
library down in Eglin Air Force Base having burned down. That was the 
bad news. The good news was that both books were already colored in. We 
don't expect our Rangers to be particularly good at math or education 
subjects, but it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out there 
has been an awful lot of waste in Iraq. It is not just waste on our 
side; we excessively rely upon contractors. I think we have moved too 
far in that direction, and we limit our capacity within our own 
military forces to provide services that ought to be provided by 
military folks and could be provided by military folks at a much lesser 
expense to the taxpayer.

Spending less, stretching your dollars means you are going to be more 
effective at whatever you are doing, and that includes an effort like 
Iraq. I think we have inappropriately moved too far in the direction of 
relying upon contractors. That is one thing. The other place where we 
have seen dramatic waste is on the Iraqi side.

The American taxpayers and the American people with their sons and 
their daughters who are in this war and in harm's way at risk of being 
killed or being severely harmed expect that the Iraqi people and the 
Iraqi Government will step up and do its part. We all know that this is 
something that cannot be won by an American conventional force. We are 
not simply going to go in and raze whole villages to force people to 
comply with us and our view of the way things ought to be.

The local population has to deal with the security situation in Iraq. 
We can help and we must help or they will be unsuccessful, but we can't 
succeed without them.

Our Iraq accountability legislation specifically provides that 
further assistance and support to the Iraqi people should be 
conditioned upon the Iraqi Government stepping up and meeting its share 
of the partnership. If the Iraqi people choose to do that, and 
obviously they have problems among themselves, far greater problems 
than Democrats and Republicans have here in the United States House of 
Representatives, and we often have a hard time coming together here in 
the House of Representatives, so it is not surprising that Sunni and 
Shiite and Kurds in Iraq are having a similarly difficult time, a more 
difficult time coming together and reconciling with one another so they 
can appropriately organize to address the internal security threats 
that they face. We can't force


them to reconcile. We can't force them to build the institutions that 
they need to spend their oil money effectively and addressing the 
security threat. We can't force them to address the security threat.

So in the partnership here in many ways we can help them, but there 
are things they must be doing. And as part of the financial 
accountability picture that Blue Dogs feel so strongly about, we have 
to add accountability of our partners. The Iraqi people are our 
partners. The Iraqi Government is our partner, and our partners need to 
be accountable for their side of the deal here or this is not going to 
come out well for the Iraqi people, the Middle East, or the United 
States.

I appreciate the opportunity to voice my opinion with regard to that 
particular issue. I appreciate what the Blue Dogs do as far as debt is 
concerned and highlighting something our country should be very 
concerned about.

They say that if there is a moral or ethical obligation one 
generation has to the next generation, it is to leave the world in at 
least as good a state as that generation found it when we pass it to 
the next generation. What we ought to be trying to do is make it a 
better world; and in so many different ways this generation is failing 
that ethical or moral responsibility to the next generation, and the 
amount of debt that we are adding to their shoulders is one of those 
ways.

Mr. Ross, I appreciate what you do for the Blue Dogs and for the 
Congress of the United States.