---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e3e0144ec5240e6f938aa1b409d9c92a`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Madam Chairwoman, I would like to yield myself 4 
minutes.

I would like to begin by thanking my colleague, Chairman Reyes, for 
the cooperative working relationship that we have had as we have gone 
through this process and as we have developed and built this bill. 
There are a number of


things in this piece of legislation that I do support, so I appreciate 
the cooperative working relationship we have had. I appreciate the hard 
work by the committee on both staffs.

You know, it is absolutely important that we provide the Intelligence 
Community with the information or with the resources, the commitment 
and the framework with which they can be the tip of the spear to keep 
us free. We all owe the men and women of the community a deep sense of 
gratitude for the work that they do each and every day, as they risk 
their lives to keep us safe.

As they well know, let me quote, ''we are in a state of war. And if 
we have not yet realized that we are in a state of war, when will we 
realize that''?

Some folks may say, well, Pete, what's new? You have been saying that 
for a long period of time.

Actually, I don't believe that, and I don't like to use the term 
''war.'' We shouldn't elevate the people that pose this threat to the 
United States as being soldiers or representing a nation-state. They 
are thugs. They are murderers, and they are terrorists.

These are the words of Ayman al-Zawahiri from an interview that he 
just gave last week, a video. Those are the words that he says. He says 
that they are at war. We need to recognize that that is how they view 
the U.S. and how they view the West.

We have continued a number of initiatives that were begun in the last 
Congress. I feel good about that. Building global collection 
capabilities, rebuilding HUMINT capabilities, working on the overhaul 
of the Intelligence Community.

But I think we do need to affect and address the weaknesses in this 
bill. This bill significantly cuts from the President's budget request 
in a very important area, human intelligence at the Central 
Intelligence Agency, and cuts that directly affect our efforts in Iraq.

I agree with the chairman. Passing the wrong bill sends exactly the 
wrong message to our troops. Just like saying we are going to pull out 
of Iraq on a definite date sends the wrong message, sending a bill that 
cuts the funding for our Intelligence Community in Iraq sends exactly 
the wrong message.

And telling the community that we want to move their priorities from 
radical Islam, North Korea, Syria, Iran, restructuring the community, 
rebuilding HUMINT to focusing on a national intelligence estimate on 
climate change sends exactly the wrong message. As a matter of fact, 
what the community will tell you is this hearkens back to the exact 
things that they experienced in the 1990s, a very depressing decade for 
the Intelligence Community, a dark decade, a decade where budgets were 
cut, where human intelligence was cut, where we changed rules for human 
intelligence and said, we are only going to have good-guy spies. It was 
known as the ''Deutsch doctrine.'' It said, if we have people on the 
payroll or we are working with people who have human rights records, 
criminal violations, we are not going to work with them anymore.

And the other thing that we did is we did the politically correct 
thing, is we moved resources to spy on the environment. George Tenet 
mentions it in his book. He refers to it as those were the days that 
the community said we were focused on bugs and bunnies. And we are 
going right back to that. We are doing the politically correct 
priorities. We are cutting HUMINT, and we are cutting the resources 
that are directly supporting our efforts in Iraq against a very deadly 
and a very dangerous enemy. That is the message that we are sending to 
the agency that says, we are going back to the 1990s.

The community doesn't want to go back to the 1990s. They recognize 
what had happened at that time.

Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.