---
---

# None
## `e3e0cbdcaf598dee1f6eba1c14392cd7`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 29 October 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Thank you, Madam Chairman and Madam 
Manager. I think it is appropriate to congratulate and to thank you 
again for giving us the opportunity to provide a face on the work of 
the Congressional Black Caucus and to thank our chairwoman, the 
Honorable Carolyn Kilpatrick, for working with us to continue to show 
the efforts being made that have such a vast array of impact. Let me 
thank the distinguished Speaker this evening for her leadership as well 
as we work together.

I am grateful that my first efforts with the Honorable Congressman 
Barbara Lee was an historic trip that we took some years ago as the 
first Presidential trip or major statement before the Marshall Plan on 
HIV/AIDS. I cite that to say that it can be done. You can get your 
hands around a major devastating killer. HIV/AIDS is a killer. It 
continues to kill in Africa. But yet there is the Millennium Account, 
there are a number of issues that address the question of HIV/AIDS. 
Part of it was out of the trip that Congresswoman Barbara Lee and 
myself and Congresswoman Kilpatrick went on some years ago.



And so as I stand here today to acknowledge the Congressional Black 
Caucus, I want to reinforce the fact of the number of Members who were 
arrested of the organized campaign to respond to the pain of what is 
going on, and the legislative initiatives and the work we did with 
Congresswoman Lee on the divestiture bill. And I, too, believe it is 
long overdue that this bill should move and be signed by the President 
of the United States.

Just this past summer, I led a delegation with the gentleman from 
Ohio (Mr. Chabot) and the gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. Smith) to go 
into Darfur and get into the soul and the soil of Darfur and begin to 
realize and to emphasize the importance of moving on the peacekeepers.

We were the first American delegation to go in right after the 
recognition that the peacekeepers should come in and the agreement by 
the government in Khartoum, as represented to us by the U.N., that they 
had agreed to peacekeepers. We went in, and not only did we go to 
Darfur, Sudan, but we went to Tunisia and Algeria and Ethiopia, and we 
asked each governing body to provide troops to the peacekeeping effort 
through the African Union because it was a serious effort.

But what we found most of all was red tape. I want to put a human 
face on these refugee camps: 2.4 million displaced. The genocide in 
Darfur has destroyed well over 60 percent of the villages in Darfur, 
displaced over 2 million people, killed an estimated 400,000 and driven 
200,000 into Chad, and that is a separate story in talking about the 
physical and emotional and financial burden of the refugees on Chad and 
the conflict that is rising up in Chad because of the refugees.

Today the House considered H. Res. 740, which condemned in the 
strongest terms the recent attacks on African Union peacekeepers that 
occurred in Haskanita, Darfur, Sudan, on September 29, 2007. I 
introduced this bill along with the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Chabot), 
and 55 Members joined me in this. They recognized that we are not going 
to make any steps of success to put a human face on the suffering. We 
are not going to be able to pull that suffering back, to be able to 
quash the janjaweed, to be able to separate the rebels, to prevent some 
of the tragic stories that I heard.

We sat in the refugee camps to listen to the women who spoke about 
their plight. This is a growing Rwanda. And I remember people saying, 
''Never again, not on my watch.'' I remember the horror of recognizing 
the inaction of this government, the American Government as related to 
the crisis in Rwanda. Then it was we did not know. Now we have the 
backdrop of Rwanda. Thank God Rwanda is moving to a country of 
stability and overcoming their horrific crisis. But after a million 
deaths, is that what we want to see after 400,000 have died, over 2 
million displaced, 2.4 million displaced, children whose birth weight 
is far below the average because of limited amount of access to food 
and water? In essence, there is a degree of malnutrition, even though I 
want to give great thanks to the NGOs, but it is just not enough. These 
people need food and health care and water and the ability to survive.

Yet we are seeing the constant dust up of the violence around the 
camps. We saw it firsthand, and it is important that these troops are 
able to come in without the violence. Let me just cite the incident 
that occurred on September 29. An estimated 1,000 members of a heavily 
armed Darfur rebel group in 30 vehicles, armed with heavy artillery and 
mortars overran a small base in Darfur, Sudan, which was occupied by 
the African Union mission peacekeepers. The ambush resulted in several 
hours of intense fighting that killed 10 peacekeepers and wounded many 
others.

According to U.N. estimates in the aftermath of this brutal attack, 
which was described by the African Union commander as deliberate and 
sustained, 15,000 civilians fled the area to neighboring towns or the 
wilderness fearing for their safety. And in the wilderness, there is 
nothing but death. There is violence by the janjaweed and rebels not in 
line with the peacekeeping mission. There is devastation, lack of 
water. There is lack of food. There is death. And the 15,000 that fled 
were the elderly, women with children and families.

Madam Speaker, this is what is going on in Sudan and so it is 
important for the Congressional Black Caucus to list a number of 
efforts, including the divestiture, including a number of initiatives, 
putting ourselves forward to protest at the Sudanese Embassy.

Let me say the recent ambassador that I discussed this matter with 
seemed to care, seemed to want to do something. But my words are that 
you can't want to do something; you must do something.

So here you can see the landscape. Although it reflects the landscape 
of Sudan generally, this is a compound where people are confined and 
these children have nowhere to go. They have no life. They have no 
games. They have no way of looking to the future. As you see, this 
group of children, there are thousands upon thousands upon thousands of 
children. Babies being born as well. And, therefore, these babies are 
being born with limited health care, malnutrition. And it


is important to note that they are struggling under these conditions.

This is a mother and child. They are trying to make mud bricks so 
they don't have to go out beyond the parameters of the refugee camp 
because that is when these women are attacked. Their livelihood is 
dependent on getting firewood as they did 50, maybe 100 years ago. 
Every time they go out to get firewood, the women are subjected to 
rape. The men cannot go because they may be killed, so the women go. 
They scavenge the land. It is completely barren because you have 2.4 
million people living in one compound trying to survive. So they have 
come up with a creative way to try to use the mud to keep the fire 
going so they don't have to go out as much. This is the condition. This 
is where they cook. This is the communal cooking area. I can assure 
you, as loving as this mother is, that the food is so limited it may be 
one meal a day. It may be a porridge because of the limit of wildlife, 
access to meat and vegetables, and these are the conditions.

I will say to you that the people are resilient, but they are looking 
to us to do something, and the question is: What are we going to do? 
These are the women who I sat down with trying to make baskets to sell. 
I listened to their stories about the intrusions at night coming into 
the camps, going into their living quarters and attacking them. And 
only through their screams did they have men and others come to scare 
away the attackers. So they are not safe from rape even in these 
villages. This is a crime against humanity.

Those of us who believe in the sanctity of human life, the abhorrence 
of rape and violence, this is a disgrace of what these women are 
facing. I, too, join in reflecting in the words and the headlines in 
The Washington Post, ''U.S. Promises on Darfur Don't Match Actions.''

But what I want to say to the Commander in Chief who has just asked 
for some $46 billion or more for the Iraq war when our soldiers have 
already done their job and the American people want them home, what we 
want to see done is where the benevolence of the United States can help 
get something accomplished, where people are looking for our safety 
net, and our technical help with the peacekeepers can make a 
difference.

Listen to these words from the former director of the Darfur 
Coalition who I have worked with, and I thank him and thank them for 
their leadership. Bush insisted there must be consequences for rape and 
murder, and he called for international troops on the ground to protect 
innocent Darfuris. According to contemporaneous notes by one present, 
he spoke of bringing justice to the janjaweed, the Arab militia, that 
has participated in atrocities that the President has repeatedly 
described as nothing less than genocide.


Congresswoman Jones, you remember it was the Congressional Black 
Caucus sitting down with Secretary Colin Powell, and I thank him for 
what he did, but colleagues like our chairman of the Subcommitte on 
Africa, Donald Payne, claimed this was genocide, called this genocide 
many months before. But it was our persistence to meet with the 
Secretary of State, to sit down in a meeting at which he came, and at 
that meeting he made the statement which he then made public that he 
had determined this was genocide based on the pursuit, the pressure, 
the information, the agitation, the advocation of members of the CBC 
and of course other colleagues in the Democratic Caucus and of course 
in the Republican Caucus, because this is a bipartisan issue.

So the Secretary of State Colin Powell announced, I believe in 2004, 
that this was genocide by this government. So the President recognized 
what was happening, and the article goes on to say that the White 
House, President Bush, had an understanding of the issue that went 
beyond simple responding to a briefing that had been given, said David 
Rubinstein, a participant who was then executive director of the Save 
Darfur Coalition, which has been sharply critical of the 
administration's response to the crisis.

He knew more facts than I expected him to know, and he had a broader 
political perspective than I expected him to know. Yet a year and a 
half later, having known all of this information, the situation as you 
reported on the ground in Darfur is little changed, and more than 2 
million people remain displaced. The question is that if we know all of 
this, if the administration knows all of this, if we have declared 
genocide, it is imperative that we act.

In my visit in August, I could see there was no action. There was no 
action in the south to settle that down so rebels are scattered. There 
are now multiple rebel groups, and then there is the conflict with the 
janjaweed.

I think tonight what we wanted to do was to reconfirm and reaffirm 
the Congressional Black Caucus is not going to let this rest. We are 
not going to suffer the indignities that these people are experiencing 
and suffering. We are going to call on our colleagues in the Congress. 
We are going to thank Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer and Majority Whip 
Clyburn, Chairman Emanuel and Vice Chairman Larson and our leadership 
in the Congressional Black Caucus, which I am proud to serve as whip, 
our leadership, that what I believe we need now is for this 
administration to move on getting the peacekeepers on the ground, to 
not take no for an answer, to help move the U.N. so they can join with 
the African Union peacekeepers, because it is clear we need additional 
help other than the African Union troops. We must have additional help.

The last thing I want to say, we have friends and allies, and they 
include members of the Arab League and China. We cannot continue to 
have our allies empower and embolden the Khartoum Government without 
solving this problem. If they think 2.4 million people are okay and 
nothing is happening, I am here to tell you they are wrong. Rape and 
pillage and suffering is going on. I ask on this floor for the U.N. and 
the new Secretary General to take a firm stand to move U.N. 
peacekeepers in now and to help the AMIS effort, the African Union 
peacekeepers now, and have these people move back to their places of 
residence and to solve the violence and the viciousness going on in 
Darfur. Enough of genocide and enough of the travesty on human rights.

I include the remainder of The Washington Post article dated 
September 29, 2007, for the Record.













 Way of Sending Troops




 At an appearance in Tennessee this summer, Bush raised a 


 question many have asked about the situation in Darfur: ''If 


 there is a problem, why don't you just go take care of it?'' 


 But Bush said he considered--and decided against--sending 


 U.S. troops unilaterally. ''It just wasn't the right 


 decision,'' he said.



 With the United States tied down in Iraq and Afghanistan, 


 skepticism about using U.S. soldiers, even in a limited way, 


 cut across agencies and bodies that often disagree, from the 


 State Department to the Pentagon to Vice President Cheney's 


 office, according to many current and former officials.



 Advisers say Bush came to accept, albeit grudgingly, the 


 arguments against using U.S. military assets--especially the 


 possibility that they might attract al-Qaeda. ''In my mind, 


 there would never be enough troops to impose order on this 


 place,'' former secretary of state Colin L. Powell said an 


 interview. ''The only way to resolve this problem was for 


 there to be a political settlement between the rebels and the 


 government.''



 Sharing this belief was Powell's bureaucratic nemesis, 


 then-Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, who advocated 


 sending troops to Iraq but not to the middle of Africa, 


 according to many officials in the government.



 This aversion to any use of force was frustrating to some 


 lower-ranking government officials, who saw a modest U.S. 


 military effort as indispensable to making the Sudanese take 


 American diplomacy seriously. Early in the crisis, in the 


 summer of 2004, the U.S. mission in Khartoum made clear to 


 Washington its belief that the African Union was incapable of 


 dealing with the security problem in Darfur on its own.



 It recommended that several hundred U.S. troops help fly in 


 African Union forces and provide other assistance, according 


 to a former State Department official. The idea was never 


 seriously entertained, the official said, and it was not 


 until two years later that the United States began making 


 efforts at the United Nations to bolster the overmatched 


 African mission.



 Roger Winter, a former State Department official who was 


 intimately involved with Sudan policy during the Bush 


 administration, argues that the United States has never been 


 serious about pressuring the Sudanese government. ''They know 


 what we will do and what we won't do,'' he said. ''And they 


 don't respond unless there is a credible threat. And they 


 haven't viewed everything that has happened up until now as 


 credible.''















 Carrots vs. Sticks




 Over the course of the conflict, Bush has found himself 


 torn between different factions




 in his administration over how to handle Sudan--whether, 


 simply put, to try carrots or sticks.



 In early 2006, Bush empowered Zoellick to seek a peace deal 


 between Khartoum and the Darfur rebel groups. Zoellick, now 


 president of the World Bank, was essentially pursuing what 


 one senior U.S. official described as a policy of engagement 


 with the Sudanese government, even though the Bush 


 administration believed it was involved in perpetrating the 


 atrocities in Darfur.



 Zoellick worked closely with senior Sudanese officials and 


 dangled the possibility of improved relations and other 


 incentives should Khartoum cooperate in bringing peace to 


 Darfur. And he came close to pulling it off: An agreement to 


 end the violence was negotiated in the spring of 2006, but it 


 fell apart after key rebel leaders refused to sign on.



 Some U.S. officials say Bush never completely bought into 


 Zoellick's approach. He seems to have been influenced in that 


 regard by Gerson, the then-speech writer who was given a 


 wide-ranging policy berth in the early part of Bush's second 


 term.



 Gerson, now a Washington Post columnist, is a devout 


 Christian who was especially animated by the part of the Bush 


 agenda that focused on alleviating suffering in Africa. He 


 traveled to Sudan with Zoellick in late 2005, a trip that 


 included a meeting with Bashir, and came back convinced that 


 Khartoum was not seriously interested in efforts to improve 


 conditions in Darfur.



 ''There was always a series of incremental steps, and 


 nothing changed on the ground,'' Gerson said later.



 Returning to Washington, Gerson told Bush that Bashir was 


 feeling no pressure to cooperate and that the African Union 


 peacekeepers were not up to the task of protecting civilians. 


 He also suggested that it might be useful to establish a no-


 fly zone to prevent the Sudanese government from flying 


 bombing missions in support of Janjaweed attacks.



 Several months later, Gerson sent Bush some articles 


 criticizing the U.S. approach as anemic, and Bush summoned 


 his aide to the Oval Office, a little hot under the collar 


 because he did not agree with the criticism. But he assured 


 Gerson, as the former aide remembers, ''I want you to know we 


 are acting on this.''



 In February 2006, Bush proposed using NATO forces to help 


 quickly bolster the beleaguered African Union mission. The 


 president seemed so excited about the idea that he mentioned 


 it, almost casually, in response to a question about Uganda 


 during a public appearance in Florida. The statement stunned 


 some in the U.S. bureaucracy.



 But even Bush's efforts to promote the idea did little to 


 move the process along. The French were leery of a new NATO 


 mission outside its normal sphere of operations, and there 


 was no interest from Sudan or the African Union in a major 


 role for this quintessentially Western military alliance, 


 according to U.S. officials. The plan went nowhere.



 Now, 20 months later, with Zoellick and Gerson gone, new 


 administration figures are working with other countries on 


 new plans for peace and peacekeepers in Darfur. Given the 


 track record, those who have handled Darfur over the years 


 are cautious.



 ''Overall,'' concluded John R. Bolton, the former U.S. 


 ambassador to the United Nations, ''Sudan is a case where 


 there's a lot of international rhetoric and no stomach for 


 real action.''

Madam Speaker, the genocide in Darfur has taken a horrific toll on 
that region of Sudan. It has destroyed well over 60 percent of the 
villages in Darfur, displaced over 2 million people, killed an 
estimated 400,000, and driven 200,000 into refugee camps in neighboring 
Chad.

Today the House considered H. Res. 740, condemning in the strongest 
terms the attacks on African Union peacekeepers that occurred in 
Haskanita, Darfur, Sudan, on September 29, 2007, which I introduced, 
together with my good friend and distinguished colleague, Mr. Chabot. 
This measure was cosponsored by 55 of my colleagues, and it passed the 
House by voice vote.

Since 2003, we have witnessed a systematic campaign of displacement, 
starvation, rape, mass murder, and terror in the western Sudanese 
region of Darfur. In the worst humanitarian crisis of our time, an 
estimated 400,000 people have been killed in Darfur by the Government 
of Sudan and its Janjaweed allies. An additional 2,000,000 people have 
been displaced from their homes and livelihoods. Both the House of 
Representatives and the Senate declared that the atrocities in Darfur 
constitute genocide in July 2004, and the Bush administration reached 
the same conclusion in September 2004.

However, three years later, the situation in Darfur continues to 
deteriorate. The United Nations reported a substantial decline in the 
humanitarian situation during the first three months of 2007, during 
which time 21 humanitarian vehicles were hijacked, 15 additional 
vehicles were looted, and gunmen raided 6 humanitarian compounds. The 
security situation makes it extremely difficult for aid organizations 
to reach vulnerable populations, and, in the 12 months preceding April 
2007, the number of humanitarian relief workers in Darfur decreased by 
16 percent, largely due to security concerns, restrictions on access, 
and funding limitations. The flow of humanitarian aid has been severely 
threatened by the escalating violence in the region.

Since 2004, a small contingent of African Union peacekeepers have 
been deployed to Darfur, responsible for maintaining security in a 
region roughly the size of France. The 7,000 peacekeepers under the 
banner of the African Union Mission in Sudan, or AMIS, have displayed 
exemplary courage and resilience, but they are woefully outmanned and 
outgunned, as well as chronically short of funding. Recognizing the 
near-collapse of the AU Mission, the United Nations, in July 2007, 
approved a UN-AU hybrid peacekeeping mission, to be known as UNAMID, 
which is meant to take over from AMIS shortly.

The AMIS peacekeeping mission recently encountered yet another 
significant setback. On September 29, 2007, an estimated 1,000 members 
of a heavily armed Darfur rebel group, in 30 vehicles armed with heavy 
artillery and mortars, overran a small base in Haskanita, Darfur, 
Sudan, which was occupied by AMIS peacekeepers. The ambush resulted in 
several hours of intense fighting that killed ten peacekeepers- seven 
Nigerian peacekeepers and three other soldiers from Mali, Senegal, and 
Botswana- and wounded many others.

According to UN estimates, in the aftermath of this brutal attack, 
which was described by the African Union commander as ''deliberate and 
sustained,'' 15,000 civilians fled the area to neighboring towns or the 
wilderness, fearing for their safety. This attack is considered to be 
the worst on AMIS peacekeepers since their deployment in July 2004. The 
United Nations Security Council condemned this ''murderous attack'' on 
AMIS peacekeepers, and demanded that ''no effort be spared'' to 
identify and bring to justice the perpetrators of this assault.

Only recently, during the August recess, I had the opportunity to 
lead a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Darfur. This was the first 
CODEL to the region since the announcement of the joint UN/AU 
peacekeeping force. Along with my colleagues Mr. Chabot, who joins me 
as the lead Republican cosponsor of this legislation, and Mr. Smith, I 
had the I opportunity to meet with government officials, civil society 
leaders, international aid workers, and affected civilians, as well as 
with the African Union peacekeepers responsible for protecting Darfur. 
I saw first hand the immense suffering of the people of Darfur, as well 
as the enormous strain on the courageous but outnumbered AU 
peacekeepers.

I strongly condemn recent attacks on African Union peacekeepers. This 
legislation also expresses the condolences of this House to the people 
and Governments of Nigeria, Mali, Senegal, and Botswana, the families 
and friends of those individuals who were killed or missing in the 
attacks, and expresses its sympathies to those individuals who have 
been injured. It expresses the solidarity of the people and Government 
of the United States with the African Union and the African Union 
peacekeepers as they recover from these attacks, and the readiness of 
Congress to support efforts to bring to justice those individuals 
responsible for the attacks and efforts to detect, pursue, disrupt, and 
dismantle the networks that plan and carry out such attacks.

My legislation also looks forward, to the process of bringing about a 
peace settlement for Darfur. Crucial though effective peacekeeping 
forces are, they are no substitute for a serious and sustained peace 
process. Consequently, this bill also expresses its support for the 
people of Darfur, Sudan, in their continued struggle against extremism 
and violence and support for their efforts to secure a permanent peace, 
justice, and return to their restored villages and homes, and it 
encourages all parties involved in the conflict to commit to negotiate 
a final and binding peace agreement at the peace talks, which began on 
October 27, 2007, in Tripoli, Libya.

Early reports from these negotiations have not been promising. With 
key rebel groups boycotting the peace talks, media reports indicate 
that mediators will now have to travel to Darfur to meet with rebel 
leaders before actual peace agreements can be reached. Despite these 
setbacks, UN Special Envoy Jan Eliasson has maintained optimism, saying 
yesterday ''I refuse to state that the peace process is interrupted.''

In Darfur, rape has been an important aspect of the genocide. Women 
and girls have been targeted specifically as spoils or war. Though it 
is impossible to know or even estimate exact numbers of rape victims, 
particularly in light of the Government of Sudan's practice of 
harassing or even detaining representatives of organizations attempting 
to report such statistics, they would certainly be extremely high.



In Darfur, rape is linked to racial slurs. When rape victims were 
interviewed by human rights workers, they reported hearing Janjaweed 
militia and Sudanese soldiers shouting their intent--to rape the women 
and girls, forcing them to have Arab children. According to a Refugees 
International report, one woman interviewed in a refugee camp in Chad 
said that a Janjaweed militiaman who raped her told her: ''I will give 
you a light-skinned baby to take this land from you.''

One Sudanese human rights activist has noted, ''The war in Darfur is 
centered on identity, and rape is being used as a weapon of war in the 
struggle for the identity of the region. Women have a very important 
role in Darfur's culture, and rape destroys not only a woman but her 
tribe.''

Though many survivors of these attacks are able to find their way to 
displaced persons camps, they remain at risk. Many women and girls are 
attacked when they leave the relative security of the camps to collect 
firewood and other necessities. When women living in refugee camps were 
asked why they went to fetch water and risk rape rather than the men, 
they answered, ''If we let the men go, they will be killed. It is 
better for us to be raped than for our husbands to be killed.''

Today, the House also considered H. Res. 726, introduced by my 
colleague, Congresswoman DeLauro, which I was proud to cosponsor. This 
resolution draws attention to this savage practice, and it calls on the 
President, the Secretary General of the United Nations, and the United 
Nations Security Council to take measures to provide assistance to 
these victims, to fully fund the UN Mission in Darfur, and to find the 
government of Sudan in noncompliance with Security Council Resolution 
1325. It also calls upon the government of Sudan, responsible for 
unleashing this madness on the women and girls of Darfur, to provide 
full legal protection to the victims of rape and to bring the 
perpetrators to justice.

The international community must do much, much more to protect the 
women and girls of Darfur, to meet the needs of those who have already 
been sexually abused or raped, and to finally bring this horrific 
conflict to an end. The deployment of the hybrid UN/AU peacekeeping 
force is a necessary and important step, but it is no substitute for a 
serious and sustained peace process.

