# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1538, WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE  ACT OF 2007
## `e3e1896db21415ea78d2546a68c52fe6`
`Ms. SUTTON â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding time for her 
leadership on this rule and in the Armed Services Committee.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and in strong support of 
H.R. 1538, the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act. It is an outrage that 
our brave men and women, who have served our Nation so honorably, have 
returned home, as recent press accounts have revealed, and faced 
problems getting the care they so rightly deserve.

As I said before, our troops must have, and we must provide, that 
which they need for any mission upon which they are sent. They must 
have and we must provide that which they need when they return home.

My home State of Ohio has 6,347 brave soldiers currently serving in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. If they are injured in any way, they must have 
the care they need when they return home. The roughly 60,000 veterans 
in my congressional district and over 1 million veterans in Ohio and 
all of our veterans across this Nation deserve better support and 
assistance than many of them have received.

The legislation before us arose out of a lack of oversight and 
transparency that should have been in place, but was neglected by the 
administration and past Congresses. This bipartisan bill ensures that 
our wounded soldiers and their families can feel secure in the 
knowledge that they will now be properly cared for and treated with the 
respect and dignity that they have earned and most certainly deserve. 
This bill will ensure that all of our veterans get the care and 
assistance they need and improves the overall veterans health care 
system to make it easier for them to access and use.

Lastly, this bill puts in place strong oversight and inspection 
requirements to ensure that the events of Walter


Reed and other facilities around this Nation never, ever happen again.

Let's pass this rule and pass this very important bill.