---
---

# LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
## `e3e2dac3a4a9f7807e7d7240523c05f9`
`Mr. CANTOR — 7 May 2009`

---


Mr. CANTOR. Returning to next week's agenda, Mr. Speaker, for a 
moment, he mentions that the war supplemental will be coming to the 
floor, and it provides us with a chance, I know he agrees, to 
accomplish one of the most important things that we have to do here as 
a Member of Congress, which is to provide for the national defense of 
our country.

And as the gentleman knows, many of us, most of us, if not all 
Republicans, stand with this President in support of his strategy in 
Afghanistan and the general region, and Pakistan, Iraq, and we stand 
with the President in his support of our troops there.

I know that there have been, Mr. Speaker, some agreements on the 
gentleman's side of the aisle as far as the issues having to do with 
timetables, the issues of having to do with cutting off funding, of 
transfer of detainees from the Guantanamo Bay detention center 
facility.

So I assume, and maybe it's an improper assumption, Mr. Speaker, and 
I would ask the gentleman if he could comment, if he believes that he 
will need the help and bipartisan support to pass this bill that we are 
interested on this side in helping pass for our troops, is it his 
intention that we will have an opportunity to address some of these 
concerns on the floor, specifically if he could tell us whether an 
amendment such as that proposed by Mr. Tiahrt from Kansas and the 
Appropriations Committee banning any further appropriations being 
allowed in the area of transferring detainees from the Guantanamo Bay 
facility?