---
---

# None
## `e3fe0eb8664de3599bb770502599791e`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 17 July 2007`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Oklahoma for 
acknowledging there is something that is worth staying up all night 
for, that this is a debate we must continue to have. But this is also a 
vote we must have. The American people and our troops deserve nothing 
less than an up-or-down vote.

I disagree with the Senator from Oklahoma when he said we would be 
somehow hurting our troops by not staying the course. I think we need 
to change the course. I think this idea that we somehow dishonor our 
troops by having a free and open debate about this is wrong. I think it 
is wrong to say we dishonor our troops when we talk about a change in 
course in Iraq, because I think it is what they deserve. We need a 
smart way to get our soldiers out of harm's way and transition to the 
Iraqi Government. This is about getting this policy right for our 
troops in the field, about giving them what they deserve: a simple 
majority vote. That is what we need today.

I hope all of my colleagues will recognize our current strategy in 
Iraq is not working, that a new strategy based on drawing down U.S. 
forces is necessary, and this strategy must be implemented now. After 4 
years, over 3,600 American soldiers have been killed, over 25,000 have 
been wounded, and almost $450 billion has been spent. We cannot wait 
until next year, or until next month, or until September to change our 
strategy. After 4 years, we cannot wait for the Iraqi Government to 
demonstrate the progress before we begin bringing our soldiers home, 
and it has shown no indication of a commitment to compromise and 
reconciliation. After 4 years, we cannot ask our men and women in the 
field to continue to risk life and limb indefinitely in the pursuit of 
a policy that so many of our colleagues across the aisle have now 
admitted and have spoken out about and said this policy needs to be 
changed, that it is not working. Talk is talk. But now it is time to 
vote.

Our troops have done what they have been asked to do. They deposed an 
evil dictator. They guaranteed free elections in Iraq. We all know 
there can be no purely military solution in Iraq. This has been agreed 
to by so many military commanders, experts, and Members in this body 
that it doesn't need to be argued anymore. We recognize true stability 
in Iraq will only come with political compromise between their various 
ethic factions. Only Iraqis can reach that agreement. Given that, 
should our strategy not be transitioning to Iraqi authority now, not 
some undefined time in the future?

We must push the Iraqi Government to assume the duties it was elected 
to perform, to lead the process in negotiation and deal-making. Our 
openended commitment is impeding this process and inhibiting the will 
of the Iraqi people to stand up and take responsibility for their own 
country.

Nine months ago, the Iraq Study Group proposed a pragmatic change of 
course that focused on political and economic initiatives, intense 
regional, and international diplomacy that would tie all nations with 
an interest in Iraq together, and beginning the phased redeployment of 
U.S. forces from Iraq. Since the issuance of the Iraq Study Group 
report, some conditions on the ground have remained the same, and a 
number have gotten worse. In the last 3 months, more U.S. troops were 
killed than in any other 3-month period during the entire war.


I urge my colleagues to set aside differences, to forget about past 
agreements or voting records, and focus on what is best for our troops 
in the field going forward. We owe it to these brave men and women in 
the field to get this policy right. I believe the best thing we can do 
for our troops, our national interest, and for the Iraqis is to adopt 
the new strategy proposed by my colleagues Senators Levin and Reed that 
would begin bringing our troops home, removing the bulk of our combat 
forces by the spring of next year. We know this cannot be done 
overnight, and the troops will be remaining to train the police and 
guard our embassies, and for special forces. We also know it is time to 
send a message to this Iraqi Government that it is time for them to 
govern.

Keeping over 160,000 U.S. soldiers in Iraq is simply not the answer. 
We need to start bringing them home. In March, I visited Baghdad and 
Fallujah and saw firsthand the bravery and commitment of our troops. I 
had a number of meetings set up with Minnesota troops. Of the 22,000 
troops who were sent over as part of this surge, 3,000 were from 
Minnesota. In fact, they are the longest serving Guard unit right now 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. A number of them are now coming home. We 
rejoice in Minnesota for the ones coming home to their families. But we 
know that, sadly, they are being replaced by other soldiers from across 
this country. I remember one of the Congressmen who had gone to Iraq 
shortly after I did. He came back and talked, as a House Member, about 
how it reminded him of--going through the market,--a farmer's market in 
Indiana.

Well, that is not my memory from Iraq. What I remember, first, is our 
troops and how they didn't complain about the heat, or about their 
extensions, or about their equipment. They only asked me two things: 
What the State high school hockey tournament scores were, and then they 
asked if I would call their moms and dads and husbands and wives when I 
got home. I did that. I talked to about 50 moms. I have to tell you 
they told me different stories. They told me about children who were 
waiting for their dad to come home, that they thought they were going 
to come home in January, and they were waiting month after month. They 
told me about how scared they were every time they turned on the TV. 
They told me about how proud they were of their child but that they 
wanted him to come home.

My starkest memory of that trip was not some farmer's market in 
Indiana; my memory was standing on the tarmac of the Baghdad airport 
where nine Duluth firefighters called me over to stand with them. 
First, I didn't know what it was. They were there to do their duty. 
They were saluting in front of a firetruck while six caskets draped in 
the American flag were loaded onto a plane. They didn't know what


fallen soldiers were in those caskets. They didn't know who they were. 
They just knew it was their duty to salute and they knew the lives of 
the families of these fallen soldiers would never be the same.

There is not a day that goes by that I don't think about the 
Minnesota soldiers I met over there. They never complained. They did 
their jobs. They deposed an evil dictator and guaranteed free 
elections. Now it is time to bring them home. One thing that struck us 
in our State is that this is a different kind of war. Up to 40 percent 
of the troops fighting in Iraq are members of the National Guard and 
Reserves. In many respects, the war has involved a different kind of 
soldier. In Vietnam, the average age of an American soldier was 19 
years old. In Iraq and Afghanistan, the average age of an active-duty 
soldier is 27. The average age of National Guard members is 33. Three-
fourths of all soldiers serving in Iraq and Afghanistan have families 
of their own, and fully one-half of those who have been killed have 
left families behind. Almost 22 percent of the Guard and Reserve 
members have had multiple deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. For 4 
years, these citizen soldiers have gone above and beyond the call of 
duty as this war has lasted longer--our involvement has lasted longer 
than our involvement in World War II. These citizen soldiers have made 
extraordinary sacrifices.

As we see our Guard and Reserve come home in Minnesota, the longest 
serving unit in this war, we know many have come back injured and 
maimed. I think I heard it is a thousand in this war across this 
country who have lost a limb, and 20-some thousand have been injured. 
Having served and sacrificed for 16 months, these men and women earned 
their rest and their right to live their lives in peace. But we keep 
sending them back and we keep sending them back.

All across my State, I have heard a strong and clear message from 
Minnesotans: Change the course in Iraq. Push for the strategy and 
solution that will bring our troops home and transition to Iraqi 
governance.

They want to see a surge in diplomacy, not a surge in troops. It is a 
message that was echoed all over this country last fall, from Montana 
to Minnesota, from Pennsylvania to Virginia. The people of Minnesota, 
like their fellow citizens around the country, recognize what is at 
stake in Iraq. As I have traveled around our State, I have spoken with 
many families who have paid a personal price in this war. I think of 
Clairmont Anderson, who would drive hundreds of miles to attend public 
events. Every time anybody even brought up the war, he would start to 
cry. It is because his son Stewart, an Army Reserve major, was killed 
in a helicopter crash in Iraq. I think of Kathleen Waseka from St. 
Paul, MN. In January, her son James Waseka, Jr., was killed while 
patrolling on foot in an area near Fallujah. He was assigned with the 
Minnesota Army National Guard First Brigade, the same unit that was 
extended under the President's escalation. Sergeant Waseka was the 
third member of his unit to die within a 6-week period. I also think of 
Becky Lurie of Kerrick, MN, near Duluth. She is the mother of 12 and a 
former State senator. Her son Matt was killed when the Army helicopter 
he was piloting went down north of Baghdad. I watched this Gold Star 
mother--a woman who has adopted 8 children--comfort her grandchildren, 
hold her shaking husband, and stand tall for hours in a high school gym 
in Findley, MN, where hundreds of people came together to gather for 
her son's memorial service. Clairmont Anderson, Kathleen Waseka, and 
Becky Lurie are parents whose children made the ultimate sacrifice in 
service to our country. They are among the many Minnesotans who have 
told me, without apology, that they want to see a change of course in 
Iraq. They pray that others will not experience their pain.


Although I opposed this war from the beginning, I recognize many did 
support it. But many years later, we are now dealing with a 
dramatically different situation. What we now know about the events and 
facts leading up to the war has changed dramatically. The conditions 
inside Iraq have changed dramatically. Our role there has changed 
dramatically. We need an up-or-down vote today. If we don't have a 
regular up-or-down vote, as the American people have asked for, we are 
not going to get the change of course the bipartisan Iraq Study Group 
recommended, the change of course that Iraq needs to halt its civil 
war, or the change of course our military forces deserve.

As of Thanksgiving, as I said, this war has lasted longer than World 
War II. Have we not asked our men and women to sacrifice enough?

Recently, at the funeral for a fallen soldier, I heard a local priest 
say our leaders have an obligation to do right by our children when we 
send them to war. This particular soldier was very tall and very 
strong. As the priest talked about him, he talked about the fact that 
even though this young man was over 6 feet tall, he was still our 
child. He said our children may be over 6 feet tall when we send them 
to war, but they are still our children. If the kids we are sending to 
Iraq are 6 feet tall, he said, then our leaders must be 8 feet tall. I 
add that if these soldiers are willing to stand up and risk their lives 
for our country, those of us in Congress must be brave enough to stand 
up and ask the tough questions and push for the tougher solutions and 
not be afraid to have an up-or-down vote on a change of strategy in 
Iraq. Clairmont Anderson, Kathleen Waseka, and Becky Lurie are standing 
tall. The parents with whom I met, whose kids were supposed to come 
home back in January, have been waiting and waiting for that telephone 
call, and waiting and waiting for those letters. They have been 
standing tall all these months.

The members of the Minnesota National Guard whose deployment ceremony 
I attended a few months ago in Duluth stood tall. The teenage brother 
and sister I met there who saw their dad and their mom deployed to Iraq 
at the same time stood tall. The injured soldiers in the VA hospital in 
Minnesota, recovering from traumatic brain injuries, and in their 
wheelchairs, with their strength and their spirit are standing tall.

I say to my friends across the aisle, by having an honest and open 
debate about the war as we have done tonight, we in Congress can stand 
tall, but we can only stand tall when we allow for a fair and honest 
vote about the strategy in Iraq. Our Constitution says Congress should 
be a responsible check and balance on Presidential power. Congressional 
oversight of our Iraq policy is long overdue. On behalf of the public, 
Members of this body have a responsibility to exercise our own 
constitutional power in a fairminded, bipartisan way, to insist on 
accountability and to demand a change of course. Ultimately, the best 
way to help our soldiers and their families is not only to give them 
the respect and the benefits and the help they deserve, but also to get 
this policy right.

I hope my friends across the aisle will see the merits of this debate 
and allow for an up-or-down vote on the Levin-Reed amendment. Our 
troops and our families deserve nothing less.