# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e410069a6e742ea74769ea5cf0f4bacc`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Madam Speaker, this is a very important debate. Four 
long years and we are searching our souls. We have sent our finest and 
our bravest soldiers on a mission that made no sense from the 
beginning. Our Nation was attacked by evil people who trained in 
Afghanistan.

We have a right to go into Afghanistan to remove the terrorist 
training camps. As a matter of fact, we should be working even harder 
there to make sure our Afghanistan mission does not fail. We must not 
allow the Taliban and other terrorist groups to control Afghanistan 
again.

However, we are unable to give Afghanistan our full attention because 
our President has led us into a war with Iraq. Why? There are no Iraqis 
on the plane that day. The Iraqis had no weapons of mass destruction. 
And they never asked us to come to their country. They do ask us to 
leave, though. And yet we will not leave.

The President will not listen to the Iraqis. The President will not 
listen to the American people. The President will not listen to the 
world. But Congress will. We are ready to go in a new direction and say 
no to the President, and no to his plan to escalate this war.

I was a military spouse. I am very, very proud of my husband's 
service. I am also on the Armed Services Committee. I know our troops 
need our support and they have it. But troops also


need to know that their leaders will make sure that their mission is in 
the best interests of the United States before they are asked to go 
fight and die for their country.

I watched a young soldier walk down a ramp on the way to Iraq. He was 
looking at all of us, and we were looking hard back at him. And I think 
most of us had the same thoughts in our hearts, that we could not look 
him in the eye and tell him that his mission was so essential to the 
security of the United States and the freedom of the world that he had 
to go and he had to die if necessary.

Why could we not tell him that? Because the mission had changed. 
Several times the President told us why we were there, and it was 
always a different reason. The mission had changed. And therefore the 
soldier looked confused and we certainly felt confused also, because we 
could not tell him why we were there.

I wanted to run up to him and tell him I support you, I support you 
by making sure that you never get sent to a war against unless we know 
why you are there.

What is this talk I have heard tonight about freedom and liberty? 
This talk of glory that I heard on the floor. This romanticized 
language, this talk about Davy Crockett. There is no Davy Crockett in 
Iraq. Our troops need clear-eyed leaders, not this romantic rabble that 
we have been hearing. This war has cost us. We have paid a terrible 
price.

Our military troops are strained. Yes, they are strained. Their 
families are strained. Our brave soldiers have died or they have been 
injured. The Iraqis have lost their lives. They have lost their 
society. They have lost their infrastructure. They are losing their 
middle class who are moving to other countries to keep their children 
safe.

Their people are fleeing from their own country. We are wary, they 
are wary, the world is now more dangerous. Iraqis were polled and the 
majority of them said they wanted the Americans to go home and let them 
work out their problems. For 4 years the administration and its 
supporters here have made no plan for them to do that.

Now they ask us on this side of the aisle what our plan is. This is a 
strange question. But it shows how confused this administration's 
supporters are, if they are looking to us and ask us what our plan is. 
They have been offered plans. They even commissioned a plan, and they 
do not follow any plans. The President follows his own way.

We have offered plans. They will not listen. I for one want the 
United States to succeed in this world. Therefore, I am going to listen 
to all of the generals who have pled with the President and pled with 
the President's supporters in this administration to do the right thing 
here.

But the President does not listen. Now, I am going to vote to tell 
the President that I am against his escalation.