---
---

# EFFECTS OF TROOP DEPLOYMENTS
## `e41a35b678303e8f26fb5f6bf1d5d1aa`
`Mr. FILNER — 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. I thank the gentlewoman for her leadership on many 
issues, especially in these special orders, and tonight a very 
important one, the effect of deployment on our families, our military 
families.

You know, this is a war that has gone on the second longest in our 
history. There are over 4,000 young men and women who have been killed. 
There have been at least 30,000 casualties that we account for of 
Americans, hundreds of thousands of Iraqis. That 30,000 official 
figure, by the way, compare that with the following statistic: Over 
800,000 veterans have already returned from this war in Iraq.



Over 300,000 of them have filed claims for injuries, whether physical 
or psychological, while in battle, 300,000. Compare that with the 
official figure of 30,000. It is a factor of ten. Something is not 
being told to the American people here.

But then, think of all the families involved of those who have been 
killed, the best and brightest of our young men and women, the 
casualties that we admit, the hundreds of thousands of casualties when 
they come home. Not only do they have to deal with fatality or grave 
injury, they have to deal with income problems. A spouse may have to 
take care of her husband and lose two incomes.

What about the children? Over 1 million children of those deployed or 
were deployed or will be deployed, how do they take daddy coming home, 
or not coming home, dealing with violence that is a symptom of PTSD, 
posttraumatic stress disorder, dealing with an amputated father or 
mother, dealing with brain injuries?



This is something that we as a society have got to deal with. It is 
part of the cost of war, and the cost of war that we have been asked to 
take on doesn't cover this. We have to fight for every penny for 
veterans and their families.

The President says support our troops, support our troops, support 
our troops. But when they come home, who supports the troops, and who 
is looking after the families? And that is what we are dealing with 
tonight.