---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `e41f180a022da3e7282e2f717d3b9c3c`
`Mr. KYL — 22 April 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I appreciate my colleague from Texas putting 
a personal face on this war. Our young men and women are making 
tremendous sacrifices. We here in the Congress should be willing to do 
our part to ensure they succeed in their mission. Hearing a story like 
Justin's simply confirms that we should redouble our efforts to fund 
what they need to carry out their mission.

The majority leader talked a little bit earlier about delays with the 
legislation that is currently pending before the Senate. It is going to 
take us 2 or 3 days, presumably, to complete this legislation that is 
currently pending--2 or 3 days. That is not a big delay in the Senate. 
But 14 months is a big delay, and that is the time since the President 
first asked for the supplemental


appropriations to help fund our troops fighting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan--14 months ago. That is a real delay. It is because I 
believe the majority party believed they could delay and delay and 
thereby apply pressure to accomplish one of two objectives--either put 
pressure on the administration to back off of the war effort or, 
knowing we are now really up against a funding crunch, put pressure on 
the President to accept a lot of unrelated spending, spending that has 
to do with our pet projects here at home. That is on the theory that 
the President would have to sign a bill because our troops are so 
desperate for the funding they need, even if that bill includes a lot 
of unrelated spending Members of Congress want for their folks back 
home. We should not submit to what I would refer to as legislative 
blackmail, to hold our troops hostage, in effect, for this domestic 
spending. Nothing else explains this 14-month delay.

We have already been told by the Secretary of Defense that it is 
critical that this supplemental funding be provided to the troops to 
prevent a slowdown in daily efforts in training and equipping, the 
halting of military operations and enabling us to replace lost or 
damaged equipment for ongoing operations. All of these are implicated 
by this delay.

General Petraeus, when he was back here, added another reason. He 
stressed the importance of this supplemental appropriations to further 
progress in Iraq. Here is what he said:




 The Commander's Emergency Response Program, the State 


 Department's Quick Response Fund, and the USAID programs 


 enable us to help Iraq deal with its challenges. To that end, 


 I respectfully ask that you provide us by June the additional 


 CERP funds requested in the supplemental. These funds have an 


 enormous impact.


In other words, it is not just the funds to buy the equipment and 
support our troops for their mission there but also to enable our 
military to provide what is necessary to enable the Iraqi people and 
the Iraqi Government there to succeed.

All of these are reasons for acting with speed. Yet for 14 months 
Congress has delayed the supplemental funding.

The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Jim Nussle, 
stated during his testimony last week to the Senate Appropriations 
Committee that if the supplemental request is not provided to the DOD 
by Memorial Day, then the Army and Marine Corps will be forced to take 
funding from other areas of their operations budget and will even have 
to start laying off civilians and contractor personnel. It will 
certainly force the Pentagon to use short-term expedients which are 
very costly. In other words, instead of having the ability to spread 
out their contracts over time, which is a much more economical way of 
acquiring services and equipment, the Pentagon is forced to pay a 
premium for short-term contracting, and it is forced to move funds from 
general accounts to support priority expenditures specifically related 
to the conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan. This is already adversely 
impacting the Department of Defense.


Clearly, military planners are leery of engaging in a new operation 
when they do not even know that the material assets they are going to 
need for that operation are going to be available or that what they 
have available today is not going to be replaced in the future because 
this supplemental funding has not been provided.

We have no more important obligation as Members of the Senate than 
funding our troops when they are in the middle of a battle. That is 
precisely the situation right now.

In fact, let me just quote something that was said just a couple of 
days ago by Ayman al-Zawahiri, currently the leader of al-Qaida. Here 
is what he said in a long audio message, among other things:




 Iraq today is now the most important arena in which our 


 Muslim nation is waging the battle against the forces of the 


 Crusader-Zionist campaign. Therefore, backing the Mujahidin 


 in Iraq, led by the Islamic State of Iraq, is the most 


 important task of the Islamic nation today.


We are in a war, and what Zawahiri said in one sense is right. This 
is the most important arena in which this conflict is currently playing 
itself out. We have a choice: to leave in defeat or to continue to 
assure victory.

We have sent our troops in harm's way to achieve their mission. They 
are accomplishing it. The surge General Petraeus has implemented is 
working. It is up to us to do our part in this effort. All we have to 
do is have a brief debate and a vote, and the vote is to send money the 
troops need to sustain their operation. We have known this now for 14 
months, yet Congress continues to dither. Now we have run out of time.

There has been a suggestion that in this effort to fund our troops, 
we should combine all of the spending into one massive appropriations 
bill. It would be well over $100 billion. If all it does is fund the 
troops, then that is fine. But if it is used, as I said before, as a 
way for the majority to sneak through either unrequested defense 
spending or our favorite other domestic pet projects, that would be a 
grave injustice to our troops.

I note the distinguished chairman of one of the subcommittees in the 
House of Representatives on the Appropriations Committee has revealed 
that he is ready to move the particular bill here because he is going 
to use it as a way to add other items to the Pentagon, including 
additional Navy warships and the procurement of new C-17s and F-22 
fighter planes beyond what the Defense Department has budgeted. Maybe 
those are good defense expenditures, maybe not, but the reality is that 
they should stand on their own two feet as part of a general 
authorization and appropriations process and not be put on the backs of 
this supplemental appropriations bill which is what is needed to fund 
our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Others have been looking at the supplemental as an opportunity to 
increase funding for their favorite nondefense programs. It has been 
suggested by members of the Senate Appropriations Committee last week 
that some $24 billion in nondefense spending might be added for that 
purpose.

As I said, Congress should not be extorted into supplying nonwar 
spending on this supplemental appropriations bill, the emergency bill 
to fund our war effort. Any effort to do that I suggest should be 
rejected--among other things, because we know the President has said he 
will veto a war supplemental funding bill that contains nonwar-related 
items or strings attached such as some kind of a timetable for troop 
withdrawal from Iraq. Knowing that is going to be vetoed, it would be 
irresponsible for the Congress to go ahead and send him a bill and take 
additional time to get the bill back and redo it in a way that will be 
not vetoed.

The bottom line is that we have to take care of our troops. We have 
to support them in the mission we have sent them to achieve. It is time 
that we get about that, and I urge my colleagues, when the war 
supplemental comes to this body--hopefully next week--to act with 
alacrity, we will pass it and not hold it hostage to our other spending 
priorities that do not relate to our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan.