# None
## `e41f658af92727ff79a8f4259ced09a8`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to make a few brief 
comments in response to my eloquent colleague from North Dakota. The 
rhetoric he utilizes has been used for a long time.

We have heard this rhetoric before each one of our evaluations of the 
way ahead in Iraq. And we have each time concluded that our national 
interests call on us to remain active and strong in Iraq and active and 
strong against terrorism around the world.

I would note, to remind everyone, every intelligence agency in the 
world thought weapons of mass destruction were in Iraq when the war 
began. In fact, Saddam Hussein did not seriously deny that these 
weapons existed. Saddam denied the U.N. inspectors the right to look 
for WMD, even though he had agreed to do so after suing for peace in 
1991. At that time, after he had invaded Kuwait, we agreed not to take 
Baghdad and grab him by the scruff of the neck. He agreed he would 
allow his country to be inspected by the United Nations.

He did not do that. He systematically violated 13 U.N. resolutions. 
As the well-known magazine, The Economist, said: We either have to give 
up and let Saddam break the embargo or we have to fight? They said: We 
believe we should fight.

That, I suggest, is the fundamental reason we had to authorize the 
President to use force. A lot more can be said about it, but those were 
some of the things we were considering at the time. I would note also 
that an official commission report concluded that, while U.S. forces 
did not find weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, Saddam Hussein 
planned to work his way out from under the sanctions and to 
reconstitute his weapons of mass destruction.

That has been clearly established. Most of us were surprised we did 
not find nuclear or chemical weapons in Iraq. I have to tell you, I was 
surprised. In 1991, when we had the first Gulf War to repulse Iraq, 
which had invaded Kuwait, we discovered that Iraq's nuclear program was 
far more advanced than we had previously thought. That is indisputable.

We know that after 1991, and before the 2003 invasion of Iraq, Saddam 
had utilized weapons of mass destruction, poison gas, against the Kurds 
of Iraq, killing thousands of his own people. How could he not have 
weapons of mass destruction? It still remains baffling to me that we 
did not find them.

So I wish to rebut this old rhetoric that somehow President Bush lied 
to get us into the war. We spent months discussing this and debating 
all the issues. We had private briefings. We knew basically everything 
the President knew. And what we knew was the CIA Director George Tenet, 
who had been appointed by President Clinton, told the President of the 
United States: It was a slam dunk; that weapons of mass destruction 
existed in Iraq.

That is the kind of information that the President acted on. He was 
not lying to the American people. This Senate authorized the President 
to use force in Iraq by a more than three-fourths majority vote. A 
majority of both parties, a majority of the Democratic Senators, a 
majority of the Republican Senators voted to authorize the President to 
use force in Iraq. And that is how we got here.

So the question is: What do we do now? This is a great Nation. We are 
not some fly-by-night bunch who can change our minds every time the 
poll numbers change. We have responsibilities to our Nation, to our 
allies. We have committed our men and women to harm's way. We have lost 
a large number of American soldiers to execute a policy we sent them to 
execute.

I have to tell you, we lost far fewer in the initial invasion than I 
imagined, but have lost far more than I imagined in the post-invasion 
period. Things are never quite certain in war, however.

People who fight you and desire to kill you usually do not want to be 
killed themselves. Military action is a tough thing and always causes 
us to remember we should avoid it whenever we possibly can. It should 
be a last resort. It is only acceptable when we have no real other 
alternative.

I do not believe the Lord is happy when his children fight and kill 
one another. It cannot be a good thing. It is a bad thing. Sometimes, 
because we are so flawed and we have options that are so grim, military 
action becomes the best decision that can be made under the 
circumstances. I think that is where we were in 2003 when it came to 
the Iraq debate.

In the fall of 2006, in an election that came during one of the worst 
periods of time in Iraq, the Republicans lost control of both Houses of 
Congress. The President's polling numbers were terrible. The following 
summer we had a national debate about whether to allow General Petraeus 
to continue the surge. We had a commission that General Jones headed, 
with 15 members. I asked him at the hearing: General Jones, do you and 
the members of your commission believe we have a chance to be 
successful if we execute this surge? He said: I do. He looked around. 
Any of the other members want to rebut what I have said or have a 
different opinion? Not a single one did.

That commission unanimously reported that they thought we could be 
successful. We had General Petraeus testify, and we had the GAO issue a 
report in September after the surge had actually begun.

We noticed some progress. But it was premature to see that as a 
sustained trend. We knew that. And we continued again at that time to 
allow the surge to go forward. We believed things were going to get 
better. That was my conclusion after hearing everyone's opinion.

I remember asking General Petraeus: Sir, will you tell us the truth, 
the good and bad? And he committed in private and in public to do that.

Will you give us your best judgment? Will you let us know if you 
think this is not an acceptable, feasible action in Iraq; that we need 
to acknowledge that we can't be successful? He made that commitment.

So what has happened since? We sent five additional brigades into 
Iraq as part of the surge. Three have already returned to the United 
States. The other two are planned to be returned by summer. We will be 
at or possibly below the 15 combat brigades that we had in Iraq before 
the surge.

General Casey was asked today in the Armed Services Committee about 
that plan and whether it meant we could move from having our soldiers 
on 15-month deployments to 12 month deployments. He said: When we get 
back to 15 brigades--and at this time we are projected to be there by 
July--he believed then that we could go back to a 1-year rotation 
instead of the longer 15-month rotation. 15 month rotations have been 
so painful to our military personnel and their families. That is a long 
time. We need to keep it to 12 months if we possibly can.

We are anticipating three reports in April. General Petraeus will 
come, as he promised, to give us a report on the status of Iraq and 
what he thinks about our future military commitment and soldier 
strength there. We will also receive a report from the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff and a report from Admiral Fallon, the CENTCOM commander who has 
Iraq the rest of the Middle East


under his command. We will have those three reports in April. That is 
the time for us to begin to evaluate again what our next step will be.

General Petraeus has said that we need to be careful to consolidate 
the gains we have made, to help the Iraqi people and government move to 
a more stable footing for the long term. If we were to pass the 
Feingold legislation, it would be a slap in the face to our commander 
on the ground who is absolutely one of the finest generals this Nation 
has ever produced. It would be unthinkable that we would, in a time of 
great success, reject the commander's recommendations and the 
military's recommendations after we took their recommendations when 
things were not good a year ago. We were worried a year ago. There was 
cause for legitimate concern. I do not deny it. But, goodness sakes, we 
have had some success in recent months.

The military estimates that attacks against coalition forces and 
Iraqi forces and Iraqi civilians have collectively fallen by 60 percent 
against Iraq since June of last year. Iraqi Army estimates put the 
number as high as an 80-percent reduction. In June there were almost 
1,700 IED explosions across Iraq. That number fell to 600 in December. 
While one U.S. combat death is so serious that we are not able to 
articulate the gravity of it, we are seeing, I am pleased to say, a 
major reduction in casualties among our troops and Iraqi troops. It is 
quite remarkable. December of 2007 was the second lowest combat death 
total of the war for American forces behind May of 2003. January and 
February of this year have shown comparably low death rates. That is 
something for which we can be thankful. Every single life is important. 
But we have to understand that when we commit troops to combat, there 
are going to be casualties. Having a good movement in the right 
direction is a cause for confidence, not a basis to cut and run.

From January to December of 2007, sectarian attacks and death among 
Iraqis in the Baghdad area decreased by 90 percent. I want to just say, 
we should be skeptical of these numbers when we hear them just one 
time. Are the trends sustained? How accurate are these facts? Those are 
legitimate questions for members of Congress to ask.

When I see soldiers in the Atlanta airport--most of them are on their 
R&R or coming home from Iraq or Afghanistan--I speak to them about 
their experiences. I spend a lot of time in the Atlanta airport, more 
than I like. I ask them how things are going. And I am hearing, from 
them, information that directly confirms the reports we are getting.

Just this month, a soldier I met was saying he worked at a base in 
Iraq. He said they used to take incoming rounds against the base 
throughout the day every day. Now they go days without any attacks. 
Another soldier told me things were getting boring. Every morning they 
used to meet. There would be some emergency, some serious challenge 
they had to address. Now when they meet, they can go weeks without 
anything serious happening. These observations are from sergeants, 
enlisted people, junior officers. It confirms, I will just say to you, 
the information we are receiving.

How has this success happened? What has occurred? The ranks of Sunni 
volunteers who have chosen in recent months to switch sides and turn 
against al-Qaida as members of local citizen councils have grown to 
more than 91,000, according to statistics from the U.S. military. The 
Sunnis, who are the minority group in Iraq, used to run Iraq under 
Saddam Hussein. They have been taken from power. They were strong 
Baathists. They were attracted to al-Qaida and their false promises. 
Many, though not most, were in cahoots with al-Qaida. They have now 
rejected al-Qaida. Whole tribal regions have publicly renounced them. 
They said they don't care about their people. They try to run their 
neighborhoods. They are corrupt. They don't support them. And 91,000 
have joined local citizens councils part of the awakening, they call 
it, to turn against al-Qaida.

Sunnis are turning these guys in. Most al-Qaida are foreigners. They 
don't live in Iraq. So the Sunnis know who they are. The Sunni folks 
know them. Once they turned on al-Qaida, we have seen a dramatic change 
in the Sunni areas.

Shia groups, citizens councils are growing around the country as 
well. More and more the people are getting tired of murderous killers 
and religiously driven extremists. They realize this is no foundation 
on which to build their future. Three critical laws have been passed. 
Critics say: We have to have laws passed. Surely we do, although the 
President and all the masters of the universe in America, I guess, 
determined that we would pass an immigration law. They said we had to 
do it. We had to have this program, this amnesty. They were going to 
ram it right through here. It failed flatter than a fritter. So just 
saying a bill needs to be passed in a democratic parliamentary 
situation doesn't mean that is so easy to be done.

Three critical laws were passed by the Iraqi Parliament on February 
13 of this year. They enacted a $48 billion budget for 2008. They 
granted amnesty to thousands of Sunni detainees and passed a provincial 
power law defining the relationship between the central government and 
provinces. These last two were on the list of benchmarks demanded by 
Congress.

Last fall when General Petraeus was here, the critics of the war 
said: You are not meeting these benchmarks. We are not interested in 
the military side. We are only interested in the political side. Well, 
we are making some progress now in the political area. In one sense 
things are even better than they appear on the political side because, 
throughout the region, reconciliation has been undertaken, and 
Baathists have been accepted back into Government positions, even in 
the absence of a national law. The oil money was and is being fairly 
distributed, even though they haven't agreed on an absolute firm legal 
formula for distribution of revenues.

Last Friday, February 22, the Shiite cleric, Moqtada al Sadr, who 
controls the Mahdi army, instructed his followers to extend their 
cease-fire against the Sunnis and the Americans for another 6 months. 
This is a big deal. The Sunnis have come around and now al Sadr, with 
the Shia, has also recommended that his followers continue their cease-
fire.

U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, Ryan Crocker, with whom I have met in Iraq, 
said this last week:




 We are indeed seeing the signs of that political surge. 


 Putting all of that together would have been just unthinkable 


 6 months ago.


Let me say this Feingold bill would be disastrous if it were passed. 
It would cut off funding after 120 days for any missions not approved 
by Senator Feingold and politicians in Washington. It would replace the 
deployment decisions and recommendations of General Petraeus with 
political decisions. Some, I guess, who are in the moveon.org camp 
think General Petraeus is a betrayer. That is what they put in an ad in 
the paper last year. I say he is one of the best generals we have had. 
He has had a remarkable tenure of success in Iraq.

The Feingold bill would forbid us from training any members of 
neighborhood councils that have sprung up under the Sunni awakening, 
unless we could certify that they had never been involved in sectarian 
violence or in attacks upon the U.S. Armed Forces. Well, we want them 
on our side. I don't know what motivated them at one point or another 
to oppose the United States. But if they have made a decision, as a lot 
of Sunnis clearly have, to switch sides, to turn in al-Qaida, to kill 
al-Qaida, isn't that good enough? Why shouldn't we welcome them back 
into the fold of the Iraqi Government and give them a chance?

We have to be careful. In fact, I think the State Department and the 
military are too naive in their belief that the prisoners we now have 
in custody can be released in the interests of reconciliation. Many of 
these, I am afraid, are just killers and murderers and thugs. Releasing 
too many of these people can create violence in the community. I don't 
doubt that some have had a change of heart because many have. But we 
have to be careful about how many of these prisoners we release.

This bill would prevent us from attacking terrorists or sectarian 
militias unless we can be sure that the targets are ''members of al 
Qaeda and affiliated international terrorist organizations.''



How is this supposed to work in practice, let me ask? Will we ask al-
Qaida to wear special hats or badges or uniforms so we can distinguish 
them from simple local terrorists?

The likely consequences of this legislation would be renewed 
sectarian violence, expanded ''breathing room'' for al-Qaida and other 
terrorist groups, and decreased possibilities for political 
reconciliation. It would create major political instability in Iraq.

The frequently referenced final report of the Iraq Study Group 
described, in grim detail, the results of an American decision to 
abandon Iraq:




 Because of the importance of Iraq, the potential for 


 catastrophe, and the role and commitments of the United 


 States in initiating events that have led to the current 


 situation, we believe it would be wrong for the United States 


 to abandon the country through a precipitous withdrawal of 


 troops and support. A premature American departure from Iraq 


 would almost certainly produce greater sectarian violence and 


 further deterioration of conditions, leading to a number of 


 the adverse consequences outlined above. The near-term 


 results would be a significant power vacuum, greater human 


 suffering, regional destabilization, and a threat to the 


 global economy. Al Qaeda would depict our withdrawal as a 


 historic victory.



 If we leave and Iraq descends into chaos, the long-range 


 consequences could eventually require the United States to 


 return.


This was a serious evaluation by serious men and women who have 
studied this area in depth. I do not think anybody can deny that this 
is a realistic description of what would occur if we were to pass the 
Feingold bill.

Well, Mr. President, I see others here who want to talk, and it looks 
as though we will have more time tomorrow. I say to my fine colleague 
from Florida, I enjoy serving with him, as he is chairman of our 
Strategic Subcommittee in Armed Services.

I conclude by saying, we are a great nation. We made some tough 
decisions. We went through a full debate last summer. We decided to 
give General Petraeus a chance. We gave him a chance. We supported the 
surge in a bipartisan vote. We sent the money. We sent him the 
resources to carry out the surge. It has been successful beyond 
anything we could have imagined at the time. And now, to undertake a 
precipitous withdrawal, directly contrary to his opinion as to what 
should be done to help continue to secure Iraq, would be unthinkable. 
No great nation should flip-flop around like that, certainly not the 
United States of America.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.