---
---

# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `e423f8aacfea117c31e542a7089aa341`
`Mrs. BOXER — 13 June 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Madam President, I rise to debate this Inhofe amendment 
and, in the strongest possible terms, make a few points to my 
colleagues.

When you strip it all away, this amendment is a giveaway--a giveaway 
to energy companies at a time when they have never had it so good, at a 
time when they have never made so much money. The CEOs are making $37 
million a year; $16 million a year; Exxon, a $39 billion profit--
billion-dollar profit; Shell, a $25 billion profit; BP, a $22 billion 
profit; Conoco-Phillips, $15.6 billion; and Chevron, over $17 billion. 
The CEO, Lee Raymond, of ExxonMobile, received a $400 million severance 
gift. Let me repeat that. One man received a $400 million severance 
gift, and the Inhofe amendment wants to give these people more. The 
Inhofe amendment wants to give these people more, even after, in the 
2005 Energy bill, they already got their streamlined provisions. They 
already got what they needed.

Let me tell my colleagues what the Inhofe amendment does. It gives to 
those who have, and it gives to energy companies free public land--
public land that belongs to the taxpayers of America. It gives them 
preference to get free public lands. Not only do they get the land 
free, but in the case of Indian land, they get 110 percent of their 
costs reimbursed to them. This is what we are doing in an Energy bill 
that is supposed to be good to consumers.

The underlying bill has many provisions in it. All those provisions 
are good for the American people, including fuel economy for our cars, 
solar energy on the building of the Department of Energy. We hope we 
will have a modest model project at the Capitol powerplant showing that 
we can, in fact, reduce the carbon emissions of coal. These are 
all bipartisan amendments.


Senator Inhofe tried to get a similar amendment to the one he is now 
proposing through the committee. When he controlled the gavel, he 
couldn't even get it out of the committee then, let alone now. So it 
gives to the oil companies, when they were taken care of in the Energy 
bill of 2005.

I am going to tell my colleagues what we did for them in 2005. The 
2005 Energy bill has a provision, which is section 392, that allows 
States to request EPA to work with them and enter into an agreement 
under which EPA and the State will identify steps, including timelines 
to streamline the consideration of Federal and State environmental 
permits for a new refinery. Interestingly, even though this legislation 
exists, EPA said before my committee in October--actually, it was 
before Senator Inhofe's committee because he was chair at that time--
that no State had asked EPA to use that provision of the law. So they 
got a streamlined procedure in 2005. They never took advantage of it. 
Now, Senator Inhofe is giving them more streamlining procedures, and he 
is exempting these energy companies from every single environmental law 
that was signed into law by Republican Presidents and Democratic 
Presidents.

Let me tell my colleagues the laws that are waived in the Inhofe 
amendment. I say to the American people: Listen to this because if ever 
we have unanimity about what is important to do for the health of our 
people, it is when Republican and Democratic Members of the Congress 
and Presidents sign these laws and pass these laws: The Clean Air Act, 
the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the 
National Environmental Policy Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act.

Those are a few examples of Federal laws which are cast asunder by 
this amendment. Who gets the benefit? Not the American Lung 
Association, which might, in fact, put in substantial precautions that 
the air is clean, but they give it to the most polluting industries in 
America: the refining and oil industries.

Senator Inhofe will say: Oh, we let the States pass these laws. We 
say they have to pass substantially equivalent laws. That is not 
defined. Why on Earth waive the laws that are the cornerstone of 
America's environmental protection under both Republican and Democratic 
Presidents? Why waive those laws? Do you think that little of America's 
families?

In my State, 9,900 people die every year from lung-related disease. 
And let's talk about some of the chemicals these refineries give off.

In 2005, refineries emitted over 68 million pounds of toxic 
chemicals, 3.8 million pounds of known cancer-causing substances, 2.5 
million pounds of toxins that damage the reproductive system, and 6.8 
million pounds of toxins that harm the development of children.

In California, communities that border refineries and chemical plants 
have high concentrations of childhood asthma. We should be working to 
make the air cleaner, not worse.

Let me review what I have said so far. This amendment has a name, and 
I am going to read you the name of this amendment. The title of this 
amendment is the Gas Petroleum Refinery Improvement and Community 
Empowerment Act. I ask, how is a community empowered by this amendment? 
The idea is to allow these new energy plants to go on Federal land that 
has been surplused. In California, we have had a lot of these lands, 
and, by the way, some of them have been redeveloped in the most 
wonderful way. Everybody is equal. There are no winners and losers. 
Here we are picking a winner, and the winner is one of the most 
polluting industries in America. They get the land free, and the 
community is left without anything. The Federal Government gets no 
money. That was the idea behind the Surplus Federal Lands Act. The 
Federal Government should get some money from the private sector. Oh, 
no, they get the land free, these energy companies. That is because 
they are hurting so much. They are hurting so much that we are going to 
give them the land free.

On Indian land, they get back 110 percent of their investment, so 
they actually make money without a penny of cost. Whoever votes for 
this amendment is voting for a giveaway of taxpayers' dollars. Whoever 
votes for this amendment is voting for an open-ended cost that isn't 
even stated in the bill.

Look at the last page of the bill, ''such funds as may be required.'' 
We know some of these energy plants will cost $4 billion for one plant. 
Let's say there are 100 pieces of Federal land that could be 
redeveloped. You do the math. We are busting the budget. You think the 
Iraq war costs a lot? Take a look at this. And who does the money go 
to? The same people who are charging us in California close to $4 a 
gallon for gas.

So you can stand up here and talk about it all you want, but the 
bottom line is, this is, in many ways, a socialistic bill, socialism: 
give away land to big business, give them the cost of the building, in 
some cases 110 percent reimbursement, waive all of the Clean Air Act, 
the Clean Water Act that protects the health and safety of our people, 
and who are the most vulnerable? Our moms and dads, our grandmas and 
grandpas, our children. Just ''Katy bar the door'' with the money. No 
problem. Oh, it is as if we are somehow in the black today when we have 
deep deficits today.

What an amendment to bring to the floor from my friend--my good 
friend--Senator Inhofe. A similar amendment went down in the committee 
when he had the gavel.

I say it is economic blackmail for communities that are losing a 
military base. It chooses an energy project over any other project they 
might want. I say to my colleagues, if they look at what these refiners 
are making, how well they are doing, we don't need to give them any 
more incentives.

I want to tell my colleagues a story about my State. Shell Oil owned 
a refinery in Bakersfield, CA. We all supported that refinery. It made 
2 percent of the gasoline for the cars in California. Shell Oil 
announced they were shutting down the refinery. We begged them not to 
shut it down. Here is what they said to us in writing: We are losing 
money, and we are shutting it down because we can't find a buyer.

Lies, those were lies. How do I know that? Because we were fortunate 
enough to have an attorney general of California, at that time it was 
Bill Lokyer, who saw the books. The refinery was making a lot of money. 
We believe Shell Oil wanted to shut it down because they wanted to 
squeeze the supply--squeeze the supply. Guess what


else. When we caught them on that, they said: Oh, we are sorry, we made 
a mistake; we still can't sell the refinery.

We found buyers for the refinery. The attorney general made sure they 
advertised. They sold that refinery, and that refinery is up and 
running.

So we are going to give away to refineries, to energy companies in 
this bill--this amendment is all they could ever dream for. They don't 
have to pay attention to the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, or the 
Safe Drinking Water Act. If my colleagues vote for this amendment, they 
are voting to open the checkbook to hundreds and hundreds of billions 
of dollars. It could be as high as a trillion dollars. Who knows how 
many of these people will take advantage of this opportunity.

What do we get? We get sick kids because this will waive all these 
environmental protections. And they are giving away to those who have.

I want to read again the amount of money some of these executives 
have made. Valero Energy, the top executive in 2005, William Greehey, 
took home $95.2 million. This is one person, folks--$95.2 million. 
Occidental Petroleum chief Irani took home $81 million in 2006. Oh, 
these poor people. Their businesses aren't doing good enough. We have 
to give them more. We have to make life easier for them.

What about the people who pay at the pump? That is why the underlying 
bill is so good because it has Maria Cantwell's antigouging law. By the 
way, the President has said he doesn't like the antigouging law. He 
might have to veto this entire bill. That shows you where people stand 
around here. Republicans want to give away to the oil companies, to the 
refiners, to the energy companies, and take away clean air protections 
from the people, take away land from the taxpayers, taxpayers' money to 
fund these projects. Count me out, and I hope count out the vast 
majority of the people here.


You can put any face on it. One thing that gets me is how the 
Republican side is supposed to be so fiscally responsible. Let's look 
at the last page of this amendment. They will tell you now how much 
they are going to pay for this bill. It is on the last page of this 
amendment. Here it is: ''Subtitle E--Authorization of Appropriations. 
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to 
carry out this'' amendment.

What does that mean? I already told my colleagues it costs $4 billion 
to build one of these energy plants--just one. It is 100 percent 
Federal pay on Indian land plus 10 percent on top of it, and 88 percent 
is the minimum number on Federal land that is not Indian land. You get 
the land, you get the cost back to build the plant, you get to waive 
all the environmental laws, and you get a streamlined process, which 
they already have the ability to get under the 2005 Energy bill.

This is a big kiss to the oil companies and the energy companies. 
This is a major hug. It would be better if we took this up on 
Valentine's Day. Well, count me out. I hope there is a resounding 
''no.'' We don't know the cost. It is not told in this amendment. We 
don't know the impact on the people. It certainly is not told in this 
amendment. It picks winners and losers on Federal land. It doesn't 
protect our people.

Madam President, I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my 
time. I suggest the absence of a quorum.