---
---

# None
## `e427858faeb88757b479d3de3fda3a9c`
`Mrs. CAPPS — 10 April 2008`

---


Mrs. CAPPS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1092 and 
against the Colombia Free Trade Agreement.

Colombia is an ally and friend of the United States. I commend 
President Uribe and his government for reducing the violence and unrest 
in Colombia. They have made great progress.

However, Colombia still leads the world in trade unionist murders. 
According to Human Rights Watch, 17 have been killed this year alone, 
and more than 400 over the last six years. Hardly any of these murders 
have been investigated or prosecuted.

It would be immoral and irresponsible to pass a free trade agreement 
with Colombia while these conditions persist. But this is not only 
about human rights. This is about domestic responsibility.

How can we trade away jobs when unemployment is climbing and our 
economy sinks deeper into recession? Surely, this is not the time to 
rush into another trade agreement. Doing so without first strengthening 
our economy and helping American workers is just plain wrong.

The global economy is changing rapidly, and we need to catch up. We 
need to expand and strengthen Trade Adjustment Assistance. We need a 
Trade Adjustment Assistance program that educates and trains the 
American workforce to better compete in the global economy.

Yet the Administration and its allies on the Hill have expressed no 
interest in making this program meet the needs of American workers. 
Advancing free trade agreements without first addressing the needs of 
American workers is just plain irresponsible.

We are here today because the President has once again chosen 
confrontation over compromise. Like with FISA, the Iraq War and 
countless other important issues, the President has determined that he 
alone knows what's best and that Congress and everyone else should just 
go along. Of course, his disastrous record over the last 7 years--on 
the economy, jobs, the deficit, health care, disaster relief and our 
national security, to name just a few issues--should make any fair 
observer pause before deferring to his judgment. By unilaterally 
forcing this issue, the President has yet again demonstrated his 
arrogant disregard for American workers and their families.

The President had a choice. He chose to force a vote, and today he is 
getting that vote. This vote will declare that strong-arming Congress 
will not work. This vote will be a vote for human rights. This vote 
will be a vote for American workers and their families.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''yes,'' and stand up for working 
families both here at home and in Colombia.