# LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
## `e42e117c55b6469846374b37e736afa9`
`Mr. HOYER â€” 22 April 2010`

---


Mr. HOYER. It is a new time. We're paying our bills. Now, we had to 
borrow a lot of money because we were in a very deep hole. And 
everybody said if you didn't, all economists, Marty Feldstein, 
conservative adviser to Ronald Reagan, said you need to put more money 
back into the economy.

We didn't have any money. You had a $5.6 trillion surplus that you 
inherited. We inherited a $5 trillion deficit. So we had no money. Your 
administration spent it all.

But you didn't pay for things you bought. You didn't pay for your tax 
cuts. Very nice to give tax cuts, but if you don't pay for them and 
they create deficits, then who's going to pay for them? Our children. 
And that's what happened.

We went to war. One was absolutely essential. We went to another war 
that some say was of choice, that is, in Iraq. We somewhat abandoned 
Afghanistan when we went to Iraq, and we didn't succeed in Afghanistan; 
but we didn't pay for either one of those wars.

Who are we expecting to pay for those wars? Our children.

You adopted a drug prescription program which, very frankly, we made 
better in the health care bill. We made seniors more secure in getting 
their prescription drugs. But you didn't pay for it.



Your economy that you left us, very frankly, is responsible for 38 
percent of that deficit to which you referred; 90 percent-plus of the 
deficit that confronts this country are direct results of the policies 
pursued in the last administration. Just as when Roosevelt inherited 
from the Hoover administration a very substantial downturn, it took him 
time to turn that economy around.

So I say to my friend, we are prepared to work together, but we're 
not prepared to pretend that--when you say times are different, they 
are different. They are very different. The difference between a $5.6 
trillion surplus and a $5 trillion deficit, the Bush administration 
inheritance and our inheritance. And that has made it tough. It's made 
it tough on us, tough on the American people. And we're trying to get 
out of this. I think we are.

And again I repeat to my friend, Larry Kudlow gave you some good 
advice, very conservative guy, on television. You know him; I know him. 
We appear on his program. And he urged those of you on the conservative 
side of the ledger, don't deny the facts. That's what Larry Kudlow 
said. Don't deny the progress that has been made because if you deny it 
and people believe that denial, they won't think things are getting 
better and they won't act accordingly. And that's not going to be good 
for our economy. It won't be good for our country.

So I caution my friend to, when things are positive, have the ability 
to say, yes, we've made some positive progress from where we were 
before this administration came into office.

I yield back.