# UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST--H.R. 4851
## `e43190d7365f8dfac58f322f4d0aa773`
`Mr. REID — 25 March 2010`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, I regret that my Republican colleagues 
have once again objected to giving out-of-work Americans the 
unemployment and health benefits they need.

Since they have evidently forgotten, I remind them that unemployment 
is high in every one of our States--it is over 13 percent in Nevada--
and 10 percent nationwide.

I understand that Republicans are upset they didn't get their way. I 
know they are disappointed that Democrats have listened to the American 
people, and that we succeeded in finally delivering the change our 
citizens have demanded and deserved for decades.

But Republicans should not take out their anger on the least 
fortunate, which is exactly what they are doing by objecting to these 
extensions. They should not kick the unemployed while they are down.

Several Republicans said this week that after health reform became 
law, they would retaliate by not cooperating with Democrats for the 
rest of this year. I will trust the American people to judge whether 
that threat was made in their best interests or in the interests of a 
political party.

So far, Republicans have made good on that promise by refusing to let 
committees meet--including, inexplicably and inexcusably, a committee 
hearing yesterday on police training in Afghanistan.

Republicans then offered amendments to the final health bill on such 
irrelevant topics as gay marriage and foreign embassies.

And now they are using the unemployed as political pawns. They even 
objected to holding a vote on their own proposal for this extension.

That is such an unfortunate posture, and such an irresponsible 
response.

Let us put the other side's newfound principles in perspective:

They refuse to pay the bill for two ongoing wars.

They refuse to pay the bill for entitlement expansions, like their 
prescription drug program.



They refuse to pay for the bill for the tax giveaways they gave to 
multimillionaires who don't need them and didn't ask for them.

But while one out of 10 Americans struggles to pay his or her own 
bills while trying to find a full-time job, Republicans have suddenly 
found religion.

These objections are not only disingenuous. They are dangerous.

I hope they can muster the compassion to help families in every one 
of our States make ends meet for just a few weeks.
