# DWELL TIME
## `e43b5764d4e2271d405d4d879ec7ed87`
`Mr. REID — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, there will come a time in the not-too-
distant future when people will write about what we as a Senate did, 
what we as a Congress did regarding this intractable war in which we 
find ourselves in faraway Iraq.

I approach my comments today recognizing people are going to look 
back at what we do to make sure our country is safe and secure and that 
we have done everything we can to make sure not only is our country 
safe and secure but we do everything we can to allow the men and women 
in our military to be safe and secure.

The fight to end the war in Iraq and refocus our efforts against 
those who attacked us on 9/11 has now raged in this Chamber and 
throughout the country for months--no, not months, for years.

On one side, Democrats stand united to responsibly end the war, to 
begin to bring home our brave soldiers, marines, airmen, and sailors, 
and refocus our attention to Osama bin Laden, his al-Qaida operatives, 
and others around the world who seek to do us harm.

On the other side, most of our Republican colleagues, including some 
who have publicly questioned the current course, stand with the 
President and his failed policies. Seven Republicans have previously 
voted courageously for this amendment. The amendment is better than it 
was last time. Certainly they should vote that way again.

We on this side of the aisle are not going to stop waging the hard 
but necessary fight to responsibly end this war. Today we have the 
opportunity to take an important step in that direction by voting for 
an amendment upon which all of us, Democrat or Republican, can and 
should agree.


Regardless of where we stand on this war, we should stand as one in 
our commitment to keeping our military the strongest in the world. We 
can only sustain that strength if our men and women in uniform are 
given the respect they deserve and the opportunity


to reset, rebuild, and restore their capabilities. That is not a 
Democratic talking point or a Republican talking point. It is common 
sense, and in this debate it is long overdue.

On President Bush's watch, our military and their families have been 
stretched to the breaking point. This is not idle talk. Every single 
one of the Army's 38 available combat brigades is either deployed, just 
returning or scheduled to go to Iraq or Afghanistan, leaving no fresh 
troops to replace the five extra brigades sent to Iraq earlier this 
year. Most Army brigades have completed two or even three tours in Iraq 
or Afghanistan, with one, the 2nd Brigade of the 10th Mountain 
Division, having served four tours already.

The Army has been forced to rely on a so-called $20,000 ''quick-
ship'' bonus to meet recruiting goals, paying soldiers $20,000 to stay 
in the military, in part to make up for last year's shortage of 
military officers. We are 3,000 officers short, and the number is only 
projected to rise.

Eighty percent of our National Guard and Reserves have been deployed 
to Iraq or Afghanistan and are serving an average of 18 months per 
deployment.

Those National Guard and Reserves remaining in the United States have 
30 percent of the essential equipment they need because so much of it 
has been shipped overseas, destroyed, in need of repair, or now 
obsolete. Thirty percent is what they have in case of an emergency, and 
they have to help in this country. We have all heard of the heavy 
personal toll this overburdening of our military is taking. Let me give 
two examples.


First, the heartbreaking story of Army PFC Travis Virgadamo of Las 
Vegas. Travis was a boy who loved his country. What did he want to do? 
He wanted to go in the military, and he did that. He loved serving in 
the military. He saw it, as his family said, as his calling. Yet after 
months of serving in Iraq--and here is how he described it, ''being 
ordered into houses without knowing what was behind strangers' doors, 
walking along roadsides fearing the next step could trigger lethal 
explosives''--and he said other things, but that is enough--the horrors 
were more than this 19-year-old could take.

He sought therapy. He wanted to have somebody help him with his 
emotional status while he was overseas, but he got nothing. He came 
home, asked for help, and was given some medicine and forced to go back 
to Iraq. He felt as if he wasn't going to be able to do his job. His 
family knew it. They talked about it. As I said, he was given medicine 
and sent back for his second tour of duty. Travis was, I repeat, 19 
years old when he committed suicide after going back to Iraq for just a 
matter of weeks.

The ordeal he went through was sadly far from unique. Is this fair? 
Is this fair to those other troops he was asked to serve with and who 
relied upon him? The answer is no.

Last year, the Veterans Affairs Department reported that more than 
56,000 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan had been diagnosed with mental 
illness--56,000. Many of them had been sent back into battle without 
receiving adequate care.

A second example. SGT Anthony J. Schober, a 23-year-old from northern 
Nevada, was killed in May in an ambush while serving his fourth tour of 
duty. I had the chance to speak with Anthony's family--his grandfather. 
Before returning to Iraq for the last time, Anthony told his 
grandfather and other family members he knew he wouldn't be coming 
home. He had survived too many explosions, in his words. Too many of 
his buddies were killed who were with him.

Madam President, if my time expires, I will use my leader time.

Travis and Anthony died as heroes. Our troops are all heroes, but 
Anthony and Travis weren't machines, they were people, one 19 years 
old, one 23 years old. They sacrificed so much--all our troops have--
and asked for so little in return. We want to give them something in 
return. That is what this amendment is all about.

With gratitude for their service and recognition that our national 
security demands no less, I rise to once again support the amendment 
offered by Jim Webb, representing the Commonwealth of Virginia. They 
sent to Washington to represent them in the Senate a brave man. It is 
more than his ability to talk and say the right thing courageously. 
Here is a man who is qualified to talk about this. He has been in 
combat. The author of this amendment is a Naval Academy graduate, a 
Marine Corps commander, received a Silver Star award for heroism, the 
Navy Cross, the Bronze Star for heroism, a couple of Purple Hearts, and 
was a Secretary of the Navy. His amendment, his readiness amendment, 
begins the critical and long overdue process of rebuilding our badly 
overburdened military.

It is simple, his amendment. It states:




 If a member of the active military is deployed to Iraq or 


 Afghanistan, they are entitled to the same length of time 


 back home before they can be redeployed.


It also states:




 Members of the Reserves may not be redeployed within 3 


 years of their original deployment--which will not only give 


 them time to recover from deployment, but will also restore 


 our reserve forces ability and availability to respond to 


 emergencies here at home.


Some have tried to confuse this issue by calling it an infringement 
of Presidential authority. That argument was debunked the first time 
anyone ever suggested it. The Constitution of the United States, 
article I, section 8, says Congress is empowered:




 To make rules for the government and regulation of the land 


 and naval forces.


This argument is undercut even further by the fact the amendment 
provides ample authority for the President to waive these requirements 
in case of an emergency that threatens our national security. The Webb 
amendment establishes a new policy, but it doesn't tie the President or 
Congress's hands to respond to any emergency.

If we are committed to building a military that is fully equipped and 
prepared to address the challenges we face throughout the world--and I 
know we are--then we must support this amendment. If we are committed 
to repaying in some small measure the sacrifices our brave troops are 
making every day--and I know we are--then we must support this 
amendment.

The decision by Republican leadership to thwart the will of the 
majority in this body from adopting this troop readiness amendment back 
in July was discouraging, to say the least. And after 3 more months of 
keeping our troops enmeshed in a civil war, their continued effort to 
undermine this legislation today is simply inexplicable to me. If 
Republicans oppose troop readiness, they are entitled to vote against 
this. If Republicans don't believe our courageous men and women in 
uniform deserve more rest and mental health, they can vote ''no'' on 
this amendment. If they do not agree constant redeployments and 
recruitment shortages are straining our armed forces, they can vote 
''no'' on this amendment. If they believe it is in our national 
security interest to push our brave troops and their families beyond 
their breaking point, then let them vote ''no'' on this amendment. But 
to stop the majority of this body from acting shows yet again that most 
of my Republican colleagues are much more concerned about protecting 
the President than protecting our troops.


Some in the administration have argued that this amendment would be 
too complicated for the Defense Department to enact. We, our military, 
can develop and deploy the best technology on Earth, and we have done 
that. Our stealth fighters can enter undetected into enemy territory. 
We can launch terrain-hugging missiles from thousands of miles away and 
hit a single target the size of a small window in a building. We can 
pay, clothe, feed, train, and manage a military force of over 2 
million, plus their families. Yet we are supposed to believe that the 
Department of Defense can't follow one simple rule, that each and every 
soldier, sailor, airman, and marine must receive rest equal to their 
time of deployment.

Senators, please don't fall victim to the White House talking points. 
This amendment is for Travis Virgadamo and his family, for Anthony 
Schober and his family, and for the 50 other Nevadans who have given 
the ultimate sacrifice, and the approximately 2,800 other Americans who 
have died.

Because some in the minority are choosing obstruction doesn't mean 
all Republicans must follow in lockstep. We almost overcame Republican 
obstructionism on this amendment in


July. We can finally do the right thing here today. So I say to my 
friends, my Republican friends, this is Bush's war. Don't make it also 
the Republican Senators' war.

I know every single one of my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, 
would agree that America's Armed Forces are the envy of the world and 
must continue to be. This amendment puts that commitment into action 
and honors our troops and prepares our Armed Forces for the serious 
challenges that lie ahead--and they do lie ahead.