---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `e447078b96727d561c1fef44d34e5678`
`Mr. SAXTON — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. SAXTON. I want to thank Mr. Hunter for yielding time.

Mr. Chairman, there has been a lot said here tonight about 
bipartisanship and working together, and it's absolutely been a 
fantastic experience for the last 2 years we've worked under the 
leadership of our good friend, Ike Skelton. I might say that one of the 
reasons that this bipartisanship works so well is very simply because 
we're all friends. We're friends in the committee, we're friends in the 
hallway, we're friends in our offices, and we are friends here on the 
floor, and we're friends when we're not in session.

And so we appreciate the opportunity to be here tonight on the floor 
in that spirit.

I might also thank my good friend from California (Mr. Hunter) for 
the kind remarks that he offered with regard to my service. But I want 
to say something, too, about Mr. Hunter, because for the last several 
years before Ike Skelton, Mr. Hunter was our chairman, and now he's our 
ranking member. Following in the footsteps of Floyd Spence and Bob 
Stump, Duncan Hunter picked up the job of being chairman and continued 
to set the tone for the bipartisanship that is a hallmark of the Armed 
Services Committee.

Perhaps as only Ronald Reagan could have said it years ago when I 
first came to Congress, he said, You know, a lot of things are 
important around here, but there is nothing that's more important, 
maybe there are some things that are as important, but nothing is more 
important than our national security.

And the bipartisanship with which the Armed Services Committee, under 
the leadership of both Mr. Skelton and Mr. Hunter and their 
predecessors, has approached this issue is very, very important. I 
would like to thank the gentleman for the great job that he's done, as 
well as my friend, Ike Skelton.

Force protection is a very important element of this bill. We know 
that force protection has changed a great deal because of the threat 
that we face in Iraq and Afghanistan of an conventional nature.

In this bill we upgraded the funding available for the Mine-Resistant 
Ambush-Protected Vehicle, the MRAP. We have $947 million to upgrade the 
armor on Humvees, and $2.2 million for the Abrams tank upgrades, the 
Bradley fighting vehicle, as well as the Stryker. And so we once again 
put our soldiers first and are providing the protection for them that 
they need.

One of my pet projects in the years that I have been on the committee 
has been the moving forward of the C-17, and here again, we've got 
funding or we've got authorization here for 15 additional C-17s, and 
hopefully we will continue to move forward with that.

There is one area that I have a concern about in this bill, but it's 
a whole lot better than it could have been when it started. Our great 
friend, Neil Abercrombie, compromised with us on the Future Combat 
System.

While it's important to provide force protection for today's Army, 
it's also important to get ready for tomorrow's Army. And while the Air 
Force, as well as the Marine Corps, as Mr. Hunter pointed out, adopted 
a revolutionary system known as the V-22, which is a fixed-wing 
aircraft. It can take off vertically and can fly twice as fast as a 
helicopter. That was revolutionary. In the Air Force, we have 
revolutionary systems, the F-22, the Joint Strike Fighter, which are 
revolutionary because they can do things that we never dreamed that we 
could do before.

The Army has been an evolutionary developer, and the FCS, the Future 
Combat System, is the first, in my time here, revolutionary system 
adopted by the Army. We cut the funding for the Future Combat System by 
$233 million. I think that's a mistake. This is a big year for the FCS, 
and in my view, we should have funded it altogether. $3.6 billion is a 
lot of money. That's the total authorization for the FCS this


year. A 5 or 10 percent cut may not seem much, but this is the make-it-
or-break-it year. This is the year we study the progress we've made 
with FCS and decide whether to go forward with it or not. A bad year to 
make a cut in my estimation.

Mr. Chairman, I appreciate very much the opportunity to be here 
tonight under these circumstances. This is a good bill. I am certainly 
going to support it, and as Mr. Hunter suggested, this should be a 
unanimous vote, and I urge the House to make it so.