---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `e44c6560aa8d061eefb11220aa465d1e`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. Madam Speaker, I missed rollcall vote Nos. 350 
through 366 on May 16, 2007. I was down in my district attending the 
funeral of Staff Sgt. Timothy P. Padgett.

I would have voted:

Rollcall vote No. 350, Motion to Adjourn, ''aye''; rollcall vote No. 
351, Previous Question on Rule for H.R. 1585--National Defense 
Authorization Act for FY '08, ''nay''; rollcall vote No. 352, Rule 
providing for H.R. 1585--National Defense Authorization Act for FY '08, 
''nay''; rollcall vote No. 353, Motion to Adjourn, ''aye''; rollcall 
vote No. 354, Quorum Call, ''present''; rollcall vote No. 355, Motion 
to Rise, ''aye''; rollcall vote No. 356, Quorum Call, ''present''; 
rollcall vote No. 357, Motion to Rise, ''aye''; rollcall vote No. 358, 
Quorum Call, ''present''; rollcall vote No. 359, Motion to Rise, 
''aye''; rollcall vote No. 360, Quorum Call, ''present''; rollcall vote 
No. 361, Motion to Rise, ''aye''; rollcall vote No. 362, Quorum Call, 
''present''; rollcall vote No. 363, Motion to Rise, ''aye''; rollcall 
vote No. 364, Andrews Amendment to Defense Authorization to prevent 
funds authorized in the bill for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan from 
being obligated or expended to plan a contingency operation in Iran, 
''nay''; rollcall vote No. 365, DeFazio Amendment to Defense 
Authorization to clarify that no previously enacted law authorizes 
military action against Iran, ''nay''; rollcall vote No. 366, Woolsey 
Amendment to Defense Authorization to require the Secretary of Defense 
to issue a report on the continued use, need, relevance, and cost of 
weapons systems designed to fight the Cold War and the former Soviet 
Union, ''nay''.
