# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `e453530728cb9e3db45001f5de4e6457`
`Mr. SANDERS — 1 November 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, what that article talks about is the fact 
that every day our main ally in Iraq, the United Kingdom, is 
withdrawing more and more of its troops. In the first paragraph of the 
article in the L.A. Times today, it states:




 Saying that Iraqi forces are now capable of dealing with 


 the violence that persists in the south, Britain's Defense 


 Secretary said Wednesday that his government intended to hand 


 over security for the area by mid December.


And later on in the article it says:




 British Prime Minister Gordon Brown announced last month 


 that his government, the main U.S. foreign partner in Iraq, 


 would pull out half its remaining troops by June, leaving 


 2,500 soldiers stationed outside Basra.


In other words, it is the United States of America, more or less 
alone, that is continuing this war in Iraq. We have some 140,000 
soldiers in Iraq. There are tens and tens of thousands of private 
contractors in Iraq. It seems to me time is long overdue for us to 
learn from our ally, the United Kingdom, that we have to begin bringing 
home our troops, as they are, as soon as we possibly can.

Senator Menendez made the case, I thought very impressively, about 
what this war is costing us in terms of human life, what it is costing 
us in terms of the tens of thousands of soldiers who are going to 
return home with traumatic brain injury, with post-traumatic stress 
disorder, without arms and without legs. This war has cost the Iraqi 
people almost beyond comprehension. No one knows exactly how many 
hundreds of thousands of Iraqi men, women, and children are dead, but 
there are estimates that go way up to close to 1 million. There are 2 
million Iraqis who have been forced to flee their own country, and 
there are 2 million who have been displaced internally who have had to 
leave their homes because of ethnic cleansing and because of the 
violence that existed in their neighborhoods.

This war has resulted, tragically, in the standing of the United 
States of America being diminished all over the world. Some of us 
remember years back, when a President of the United States would go to 
Europe, would go abroad, and hundreds of thousands of people, if not 
millions of people, would be lining streets with American flags, 
looking up to Americans saying: America, you are the kind of country we 
want to be. Now, when this President goes abroad, there are thousands 
and thousands of people who are coming out, but invariably they are 
demonstrating against the United States.

What poll after poll shows, to our great loss, to our capability in 
fighting international terrorism, is we have lost the moral high 
ground; that our standing throughout the world is significantly 
diminished. And certainly one of the challenges we face as a Senate is 
to restore the confidence the entire world used to have in the United 
States and restore that once again, so when our kids go visit in Europe 
and somebody says to them: What country do you come from, they do not 
have to say they come from Canada. They can say proudly they come from 
the United States of America, a country that, once again, we hope, will 
be respected throughout the entire world.

I hope very much we will follow the lead of our friends in the United 
Kingdom, who are now down to 2,500 troops. I suspect in the not-too-
distant future those troops will probably be withdrawn. We should be 
bringing our troops home as soon as we possibly can.















 Abolishing Hunger


The last point I wish to make is that fairly soon, as I understand 
it, the agriculture bill will come to the floor of the Senate. In that 
bill, I think under Senator Harkin's leadership, there have been some 
very positive changes being made. But I think, because of the lack of 
funding, that bill does not go anywhere near as far as it should in 
addressing some of the very serious problems we face in our country in 
terms of nutrition and in terms of hunger.

At the same time this country is spending $10 billion a month on the 
war in Iraq, it has the dubious distinction of having, by far, the 
highest rate of childhood poverty in the industrialized world, with 
almost one-fifth--almost one out of five--of the kids in this country 
living in poverty. Compare that with Scandinavia, where it is maybe 3 
percent or 4 percent. And the rate of poverty in America is growing.

Last year, as you may recall, the Department of Agriculture, in the 
midst of this increase in poverty in our country, reported that 12 
percent of Americans--35 million people--could not put food on their 
table at least part of the year. Thirty-five million of our fellow 
Americans could not put food on the table for at least part of the 
year. That is not what should be happening in our country.

When the Senate deals with the agriculture bill, I will be offering 
an amendment which will ask for a commitment from the Senate that says, 
at a time when the wealthiest people are becoming wealthier, when the 
poorest are becoming poorer, when hunger in America is increasing, this 
Senate, this Congress will make a moral commitment to abolish hunger in 
this country in the next 5 years. That is not asking too much for our 
country.

We have to fundamentally change the priorities of our Nation. When 
billionaires want tax breaks, we have money for them. We have money for 
war. But when children go hungry, I guess there is no money available. 
So I look forward to working with my colleagues to change the 
priorities of this Senate so we start paying attention to the vast 
majority of our people rather than the few and the wealthy who have so 
much power.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.