# FTC
## `e45d8530309070038e72832df2e4ac91`
`Mr. DORGAN — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I appreciate the comments of the Senator 
from Virginia. He said something about a year ago that I have long 
remembered because it is something I have been concerned about. He was 
talking about the economy and about concentration in the economy. It 
relates to what I was describing about big companies and the media. 
Senator Webb talked about the fact that we have reached a point now 
where the average CEO in America makes 400 times what the average 
worker makes.

I was doing some writing the other night about this issue. I talked 
about hedge funds a few moments ago and their role in the subprime 
mortgage scandal. I was talking about what hedge fund managers are 
earning. From a recent Alpha Magazine report on compensation--the hedge 
fund manager who earned the most last year made $1.7 billion. James 
Simons did that. And $1.7 billion means he makes in 1 hour what the 
average worker makes in a year, but he makes it every hour. The point I 
am making about this is the skewed nature of this economic system of 
ours and what is happening in it.

My colleague will know that in recent days we have had a debate with 
President Bush about who the big spenders are and so on. The biggest 
spender by far has been President Bush. He has sent us budgets that 
represented the highest amount of spending and the biggest deficits we 
have had for a long time. When we tried to pay for some things, we 
said: Let's do certain things and pay for them. The President said: Not 
on your life. We will not allow you to pay for these things.

Here are the things we wanted to do to pay for some of those things, 
some things that were worthy--for example, extending incentives for 
renewable energy and so on. We said: Those people, including hedge fund 
managers, who are making a lot of money and are paying a 15-percent 
income tax rate, which is a lower rate than the receptionist in the 
office down the street is paid, they should be paying an income rate 
like all Americans. The President said: Not on your life.

We described in a picture what is happening. We said: We want to shut 
down tax scams that allow Wachovia to buy a sewer system in Germany, 
not because they have expertise in German sewers; they want to buy the 
assets of a German sewer system so they can write off hundreds of 
millions of dollars in taxes they would otherwise owe this country. The 
President said: No, you can't be doing that. That is a tax increase.

From David Evans, a really great reporter, I got a picture of this 
building, the Ugland House, some while ago. This is a 5-story white 
house in the Cayman Islands, home to 12,748 corporations. Are they 
there? No, it is a legal fiction. Lawyers have put them there legally 
so they can avoid paying U.S. taxes. The President doesn't want to shut 
those things down. He said: No, if you shut this sort of thing down, we 
call it a tax increase, even as the President is protecting these 
unbelievable opportunities for the wealthiest to avoid paying taxes, at 
a time when the debt is increasing dramatically.

Here is what the President has done since the year 2002. He sent us 
emergency requests, none of it paid for, and said: I want it all added 
to the Federal debt. In 2002, he said: I want $50 billion. In 2003: I 
want $76 billion. I don't want to pay for any of it. Add it right to 
the debt. I am sending soldiers to Iraq and Afghanistan. When they come 
back, they can pay for the debt. In 2004: I want $87 billion. In 2005: 
I want $82 billion. In 2006: I want $92 billion. It is all emergency 
money outside the budget, all added to the Federal debt. In 2007: I 
want $103 billion. And in 2008: I want $196 billion.


He has asked for over two-thirds of a trillion dollars and wanted to 
charge it all to future generations, and he has gotten by with it. Then 
he sits in the Oval Office and says: Well, I am the fiscal 
conservative. I do not think so. I grew up in a small town. I 
understood what a Republican was. They are an important part of this 
political system. The one thing you could count on from real 
Republicans is they believed you ought to balance budgets. It is what 
it was in my hometown. It is what it used to be in this Chamber.

Now, that new brand is: Let's spend money, and let's add it to the 
Federal debt. This is not some Democrat that is doing this; this is 
President George W. Bush asking for over two-thirds of a trillion 
dollars and asking that none of it be paid for. We will send soldiers 
to war, but we will not have the courage to ask the American people to 
help pay the bill.

In recent days and weeks, we have been treated to quite a sideshow of 
this administration describing their view of fiscal responsibility. 
They have said the Senate wants to spend $22 billion more than the 
President in this year on things such as health, education, taking care 
of sick kids, improving America's classrooms, energy--a whole series of 
things--weather assistance, home heating fuel in the winter. For all of 
these things, the President says no. He says: You want to spend more 
than I do here at home, so you are big spenders. You are $22 billion 
over my number. And, oh, by the way, I am $196 billion over your 
number. He says: I want that, and I don't want any of it paid for.

I think it is long past the time to start taking care of a few things 
at home, and I think there is a right and a wrong way to do it. It is 
time we pay for that which we spend, and there are plenty of ways to do 
it. If we have the richest people in the country paying 15 percent tax 
rates, I think they ought to pay what others pay.

As I said, the second richest man in the world, Warren Buffett, is a 
remarkable businessman and an interesting guy and somebody I have had 
the opportunity to know over the years. He said he did a little test in 
his office in Omaha, NE. I think he said there were 30 or 40 people who 
worked in that central office. He checked--with the cooperation of his 
employees--to find out what their effective tax rate was. Guess what. 
The lowest effective tax rate in his office was Warren Buffett's. And 
he said, to his credit: That is just wrong. Why should I pay a lower 
tax rate than the receptionist in my office? This is from the world's 
second richest man.

Very few in that stratosphere in income will take that position. Most 
of them are spending a lot of money to try to preserve what they have: 
a 15-percent tax rate. In many cases, the top hedge fund managers in 
this country are paying the 15-percent tax rate on massive earnings, 
and they have this President in the White House trying to do everything 
he can--and so far successfully--preventing those of us in the Congress 
who want to say to the wealthiest Americans: Pay the tax rate that the 
rest of us pay, that everybody else pays.



The point I wanted to make, very simply, is this: The President has 
made a big cause in recent weeks about being a fiscal conservative. 
There is nothing fiscally conservative about an administration that 
took a very large budget surplus and turned it into very large budget 
deficits. There is nothing conservative about protecting tax breaks for 
the wealthiest Americans. There is nothing conservative about proposing 
two-thirds of a trillion dollars of spending and wanting to add it to 
the Federal debt. That is not conservatism. That is reckless fiscal 
policy and one that ought to change.

One final point: The President, today, is signing an energy bill. We 
wrote an energy bill, and it is a good bill. It comes up short in two 
areas. We should have increased renewable energy provision in it that 
requires that all electricity produced in this country should be 
produced with 15 percent from renewable resources. That ought to be in 
the bill. It is not in the bill that passed.

Second, we ought to have had the extenders, extending the production 
tax credit and other incentives for the renewables and other sources of 
energy in order to make sure we are going to continue to push on 
renewable energy incentives.

But having said that--we did not get that because of the President 
and his supporters--having said that, here is what we did get: We got 
an energy bill that, for the first time in 32 years, requires Detroit 
and the auto companies to make automobiles that have better gas 
mileage, 10 miles to the gallon in 10 years, beginning in the year 
2011. That is a significant change. I am proud to have been a part of 
causing that change. I was the principal author of a legislative 
initiative supported by SAFE, Securing America's Future Energy. That 
called for the increase in reformed CAFE standards. It called for a 
substantial increase in renewable fuels, which we have done by a 36-
billion-gallon renewable fuels standard to be achieved by 2022.

We have a title that is very good dealing with conservation and 
efficiency of virtually everything we use in this country today. We get 
up in the morning, we turn on a switch, and then we turn on a key. We 
see light, and we start the car. We don't think much about energy, but 
it is central to our lives.

We are so unbelievably dependent on foreign sources of energy. Sixty 
percent of the oil we use comes from outside our country, much of it 
from troubled parts of our world. We have to change that.


I am proud of the bill we have passed in this Congress. It is a 
significant accomplishment. We need to come back next year, and do the 
renewable energy piece, saying every kilowatt of electricity produced 
in the country should have 15 percent renewable. We can take energy 
right from the wind, and we can extend America's energy supply with 
renewable energy.

I think while there are a lot of reasons we did not make as much 
headway as we would have liked in this Congress--we are, after all, 
only 51-49 in the Senate and about the same percentage in the U.S. 
House and a President who has a veto pen. Despite all of that, for the 
first time in nine years we increased the minimum wage. Those folks 
working at the bottom of the economic ladder--the ones who work two 
jobs, sometimes three jobs. I believe in 60 percent of the cases, it is 
a woman trying to make ends meet, often trying to raise a family--for 
the first time in 9 years, we increased the minimum wage to say to 
them: You matter as well. You are at the bottom of the ladder, but 
there are ways we can help you. And an increase to the minimum wage is 
a significant accomplishment.

We passed a reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, and that was 
significant. We increased Pell grants and student loans. We did some 
important things in Congress. We passed an energy bill at the end.

Would we have wished we could have done more? Sure. But the fact is, 
with this President in the White House, we were not able to get all the 
things we wanted to get done. But we will. The future is about change. 
The agenda that we care so much about is about change, about pivoting 
and beginning to take care of things in this country that have long 
been neglected.

Having said all of that, I feel optimistic. I like what we have done. 
I know this is a time that is very frustrating for the American people 
for a lot of reasons: the war in Iraq, the subprime loan scandal, the 
massive scandal of waste, fraud, and abuse in contracting for the war 
in Iraq and Hurricane Katrina, the most significant waste, fraud, and 
abuse in the history of this country.

I know why people are upset. They are upset about jobs going 
overseas, trade policies that, in my judgment, are bankrupt in terms of 
standing up for this country's interests. But the fact is, all of those 
things are things we can change. Step by step, we can make these 
changes. That is why I feel optimistic.

Mr. President, with that, I yield the floor and suggest the absence 
of a quorum.