# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `e464b2648b8c1f37a4aa7d600820e0ea`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 16 November 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will try to frame the issue the way it 
deserves. It is going to be hard hitting. Senator Reid told me 
something one time, that we shouldn't run the Congress down. I 
generally agree with that except here. What we are about to do is take 
one of the most successful military operations in American history by 
any measure, the surge, and undercut it by one of the most 
dysfunctional Congresses in American history, by denying the funding to 
the troops in the field who have performed.

The House bill would replace military commanders with a dysfunctional 
Congress that is being led around by its nose by Code Pink and 
moveon.org, who don't understand success on the battlefield. All they 
see is the next election, the potential for an ad. Listen to the 
inflammatory rhetoric.

We are not going to allow the dysfunctional Congress to replace a 
successful commander. We are not going to send the message to our 
enemies: You are back into the fight. We are not going to tell our 
troops: You are a loser; you don't get any more money. We are not going 
to tell our allies and the brave Iraqis who have jumped on our side 
that we are leaving. This is ridiculous. It is undercutting America's 
vital national security interests, and it is telling our soldiers: You 
are losers--when they are winners. We are going to defeat it now and 
forever.