# None
## `e475462988168c1ef5a2d4e1be3460ae`
`Mr. GINGREY — 22 April 2008`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, today the residents of Floyd County, 
Georgia are saying goodbye to a native son who died while bravely 
serving his Nation in Iraq. Sergeant William Elliot Allmon was killed 
in action on April 12, 2008 outside of Baghdad, after his vehicle 
encountered an IED, an improvised explosive device.

Last night, I joined Sergeant Will Allmon's family, friends, and 
supporters at his visitation to honor the life of this brave soldier. 
He was remembered as a man of the highest character whose receipt of 
two Army commendation medals, an Army achievement medal, a combat 
action badge are testament to the supreme sense of duty he felt to his 
country and to his brothers in arms, his comrades. Most importantly, he 
was remembered as a first-born son, a father, and grandson whose 
contagious smile brought a sense of warmth to those in his presence.

Born and raised in Floyd County, Georgia, Will joined the National 
Guard at age 17 before going full active duty in 2003. After serving 
one tour in Iraq, and even being wounded, Sergeant Allmon selflessly 
decided to return to the war zone for a second tour, from which his 
unit will return home this summer.

His whole mission in Iraq centered on keeping his fellow soldiers 
safe, risking his life for the sake of others. Sergeant Allmon served 
as a combat engineer for the Army, where he specialized in building 
protective structures for friendly forces and destroying protective 
structures for the enemy.

I think his mom put it best when she said, ''He was a leader who was 
looked up to by other soldiers. He was a loyal soldier who went beyond 
the call of duty.''

Sergeant Allmon leaves behind his wife, Jennifer; his 3-year-old son, 
Damien; an 11-year-old stepson, Jason Luke Johnson; his mother, Donna 
Fortune; his father, William Allmon; his


grandfather, Leonard Allmon; and grandparents, Billy and Joann 
Phillips.

Mr. Speaker, my prayers go out to his family and my deepest gratitude 
goes out to Sergeant Allmon for his selfless sacrifice for this Nation, 
and I ask all Members, and I know they will, join me in honoring the 
distinguished memory of Sergeant William Allmon.
