---
---

# None
## `e47b36f9299a8566f9261679e4f832e1`
`Mr. JONES of North Carolina — 8 July 2008`

---


Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, in May of this year I 
introduced H. Res. 1183, a resolution calling for the House to observe 
a moment of silence on the first legislative day of each month for 
those killed or wounded in the United States engagements in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I am very grateful that last month the Speaker of the 
House initiated this moment of silence to honor America's fallen 
heroes. It is my understanding that the Speaker will continue this 
monthly observance during votes tomorrow.

I again thank Speaker Pelosi for making this tribute a part of the 
regular order of the House. This moment of silence will serve as a 
solemn reminder of the more than 4,000 killed and more than 30,000 
wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, and a thank-you from a grateful 
Nation. During the month of June, 56 United States servicemembers were 
killed; 27 in Afghanistan and 29 in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, I am sure every American shares my heart, which is 
heavy for the sacrifice of these fallen heroes. We are grateful to all 
of our men and women in uniform for their courage and for their 
selfless commitment to duty.

Again, I want to thank Speaker Pelosi and her staff for continuing to 
make this remembrance a reality for those who have sacrificed for our 
Nation and for their families. We, the House of Representatives, the 
People's House, should never forget those who have given their life for 
this great Nation.

May God continue to bless our men and women in uniform, and may God 
continue to bless the families of our men and women in uniform. And I 
ask God to continue to bless America.
