---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `e48cf88c163a3fb66293005a13abf1c6`
`Mr. LEVIN — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I commend the Senator from North Dakota. 
This subject, which he has described, is a subject which every 
American--at least those I have spoken to--understands. Regardless of 
their position on the Iraq war, regardless of whether they believe we 
did the right thing going in, regardless of whether they are critics of 
the Bush administration's policies, this cuts across every single 
line. I have not talked to anybody, at least in my State of Michigan, 
who believes that when Iraq has $80 billion in surplus funds sitting in 
banks, some of which are our banks drawing interest from our 
taxpayers--we have paid billions of dollars in interest on Iraqi 
surplus accounts coming from sales of oil, much of which comes to 
America, much of which ends up in our tanks at $4 a gallon, enriching 
themselves at the expense of the American taxpayers. Why in heaven's 
name they are not paying for the kinds of items which Senator Dorgan 
has described beats me and I think it absolutely stuns at least every 
American I have spoken to when they hear about it. This cuts across all 
the positions on the war and the success of the surge or the lack of 
success because it hasn't accomplished its purposes.


This issue is a critically important issue. It is shocking. It is 
unsustainable, it is untenable, it is unconscionable that Iraq is not 
paying for the kinds of reconstruction efforts the Senator has 
described.

Senator Warner and I wrote a letter some months ago, and we received 
a response on this subject which provides a lot of the information to 
which Senator Dorgan has referred. I commend Senator Warner because he 
has been active in trying to probe this area: How many surplus funds 
are there and how much is being added every day and what are they being 
spent for? So we have been able to accumulate a lot of information 
which I believe will be very supportive of an amendment which Senator 
Dorgan may offer and hopefully will put in a form which can command 
bipartisan support of the Senate.