# None
## `e4920791b03177f089860bd5697e351d`
`Mr. INHOFE — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I join my colleagues in expressing great 
concern for families struggling during these tough economic times. 
Costs are going up. Prices for everyday goods are increasing. Food 
costs are skyrocketing. Heating and electricity prices are on the rise. 
The price of gas is breaking all-time records. The family budget is 
being strapped. We all agree this is a time of great economic 
uncertainty.

But we disagree about how Congress should respond to this situation. 
What is the Federal Government's role? I will tell you precisely how we 
should not respond--when the costs of food and fuel for families are 
going through the roof. We should not add to that burden by increasing 
the cost of the Federal Government. Unfortunately, that is precisely 
what my friends on the Democrat side plan to do with their budget. With 
the family budget under serious threat, the other side of the aisle 
plans to expand the federal budget--at the expense of the family 
budget. I say to my friends: if there was ever a time not to raise 
taxes, if there was ever a time not to increase the costs people pay 
for the federal government, that time is now. Yet this budget contains 
the largest tax increase in America's history.

We all hear about rising energy costs. However, families are also 
taking another big hit in the pocketbook with food prices that are 
increasing at their fastest rates since 1990. Prices for many groceries 
are rising at double-digit rates. Milk prices increased 26 percent last 
year. The price for eggs is up 40 percent. Cheese prices have doubled 
from a year ago. Beef prices are up 50 percent. Flour is up about 20 
percent since last year. Taken as a whole, food and beverage prices are 
rising at 4 percent a year, which is the fastest rate of increase in 20 
years. All indicators point to this trend continuing, if not worsening.

Food, which accounts for about 13 percent of the family budget, is 
not the only expense that has seen dramatic increases. Energy costs now 
consume about 4 percent of a family's budget. On Monday, gas prices set 
a record high of $3.227 per gallon--while oil prices broke the all-
time, inflation-adjusted record and rose to $108 per barrel. The cost 
of heating and powering a home is rising. The Energy Department is 
forecasting sustained increases in the demand and prices of electricity 
and residential energy usage. It is important to remember that even 
modest increases in home energy prices have a significant impact on the 
budgets of middle-income Americans.

Undoubtedly, the costs of many items in the family budget are 
increasing. In this context, Democrats are rolling out their budget 
plan, and what do we see? Unbelievably, we see plans to radically 
increase the cost that families will pay for the Federal Government. 
With the cost of so many household essentials skyrocketing, why are we 
raising the cost of the Federal Government? This is the last thing the 
economy needs. And it is the last thing families need.

This year, the Federal Government will tax $21,604 per household, 
spend


$25,117 per household, and run a deficit of $3,513 per household. But 
it is not enough. It never is.

The budget we are considering contains a $1.2 trillion tax hike. On 
top of the thousands of dollars families are already paying for the 
Federal Government, on top of food costs and energy costs reaching 
stratospheric levels, the majority party is rolling out a budget plan 
with record tax increases. This budget plan increases taxes by more 
than $2,300 each year for 43 million families with children. $2,300 in 
addition to what these families are already paying.

I watch my colleagues on the other side come down to the floor one 
after another and complain that the Federal Government does not have 
enough money. Might I remind my friends that this budget is a $3 
trillion budget. This government spends more money than the entire 
economies of most countries. In 2006, only two countries had entire 
economies--every good and service produced within their borders--bigger 
than $3 trillion. One was the United States. The other was Japan at $4 
trillion. Germany ranked third in world GDP. Amazingly, my colleagues 
have proposed a budget that is bigger than Germany's entire economy in 
2006.

Under the Democrat's budget, 43 million families face tax increases 
of $2,300. What could $2,300 buy for an American family? I started by 
talking about food costs, which are rising at the fastest rate in two 
decades. $2,300 could buy 8 month's worth of groceries for a family. 
Then I talked about record-setting energy costs; $2,300 could buy a 
family's electricity and home heating oil for an entire year.

Now more than ever, we need to protect the family budget from the 
Federal budget. The Democrat budget does exactly the opposite, 
containing massive tax increases. It deserves to be defeated.

While the family budget is under threat by Democrat's nondefense 
spending, our Nation is under threat by global terrorist forces. We 
must support our courageous men and women in uniform by adequately 
funding defense spending.

The greatest trust placed upon Congress by the American people is to 
provide for their security by maintaining a strong national defense. It 
is a trust we cannot betray. However, we are rapidly reaching a 
crossroads--a nexus that will determine America's security for the next 
several decades.

To better understand where we are today, it is important to 
understand how we arrived at this point. This Nation's historical 
pattern has been one of a small professional military in peacetime, 
rapidly supplemented by a mobilization of civilians during war, 
followed by a rapid demobilization at the war's end. This 
demobilization or downsizing occurs within a context of balancing risks 
and threats. The trick is to retain and fund a force of sufficient size 
and capability to deter or dissuade, and, if necessary, to fight and 
win.


In the late 1970s, the military of the United States was a hollow 
force--low morale, low pay, outdated equipment, and unable to maintain 
the equipment it possessed. In the 1980s, Ronald Reagan expanded the 
military budget, increased troops size, reenergized weapons 
procurement, and revived our intelligence capabilities . . . returning 
this country back to its superpower status. The Cold War officially 
ended in 1990.

Much of this Nation's firepower is a legacy of the Reagan years. With 
the demise of the Soviet Union, our military was downsized to counter a 
''perceived'' diminished world threat. Unfortunately, the global 
strategic environment has since then become increasingly complex, 
dynamic, lethal, and uncertain.

During the Clinton administration, I was on the floor every 2 weeks 
warning that we would live to regret the massive cuts and procurement 
holiday of the 1990's. I believe one of the great tragedies of our 
national security history is the military spending during this time 
passed.

Between fiscal year 1994 and fiscal year 2001, the DOD budget 
experienced a downward trend, $313.3 billion less than if it stayed 
true to the rate of inflation. Clinton's proposed budget was $99 
billion less than what Congress believed defense required. The Clinton/
Gore administration cut the defense budget by 40 percent, reducing it 
to its lowest percentage of the gross national product since before 
World War II.

As a result of these budgetary cuts, today's force is half the size 
of the military in the 1990s. The Army was reduced from 18 divisions to 
10, the Air Force from 37 tactical air wings to 20, and the Navy from 
568 ships in the late 1980s to only 276 today.

As our forces decreased in size, the number and lengths of 
deployments increased and international terrorism took the forefront. 
Afghanistan was used as a training ground for terrorists and the 
Taliban regime allowed al-Qaida unfettered mobility.

On February 26, 1993, a car bomb was planted in the underground 
parking garage below the World Trade Center, foreshadowing the 9/11 
attacks. On June 25, 1996, the Khobar towers were bombed by Hezbollah, 
with intelligence pointing to support by al-Qaida. On August 7, 1998, 
there were simultaneous bombings at the U.S. embassies in Dar Es 
Salaam, Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya. On October 12, 2000 suicide 
bombers used a boat to attack the USS Cole while it was moored in 
Yemen.

America's response was comparatively restrained and, at best, 
inconsistent. Operation Infinite Reach included cruise missile strikes 
against Afghanistan and Sudan, but there was no real change. This 
inadequate response has been cited as a factor emboldening al-Qaida to 
undertake further plans. WMD proliferation throughout the world reached 
an unprecedented level.

The Chinese government learned that it could rely on our 
acquiescence. They transferred prohibited weapons technology to North 
Korea, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, Syria, and other countries, threatened to 
absorb Taiwan, and intimidated our regional treaty allies, South Korea, 
and Japan. During this period, our country concluded, as Secretary 
Gates put it, ''that the nature of man and the world had changed for 
the better, and turned inward, unilaterally disarming and dismantling 
institutions important to our national security--in the process, giving 
ourselves a so-called ''peace'' dividend . . .''

We were wrong. The reason I talk about this is because it highlights 
what can happen when we don't adequately fund our military and provide 
it with stability and predictability about its future. The United 
States must build and sustain military capabilities required to respond 
to possible future threats across the spectrum of conflict.

The next war will not be like the past one--history has taught us 
this. We cannot assume freedom of the seas, freedom of air and space, 
and freedom of maneuver on the ground. In order to provide stability, 
America must be able to deter or defeat any threat, be it an insurgency 
or a challenge from a near-peer competitor. In order to provide this 
stability, Congress needs to guarantee a baseline in funding.

Guaranteeing a baseline budget, one that is indexed to our GDP, is 
the best way to accomplish this. Historically, defense spending was 4.6 
percent in 1991 during the gulf war; 8.9 percent in 1968 during 
Vietnam; and 11.7 percent in 1953 during the Korean war. Across the 
last century, it has averaged about 5.7 percent. The fiscal year 2009 
defense budget is $541.1 billion--approximately 3.3 percent of GDP.

We can no longer afford to kid ourselves that we are still sending 
our sons and daughters out with the best equipment available. In some 
cases, we simply can't match the quality of our competitors. In other 
cases, while we may have developed a superior system, we have 
restricted the quantity to a point where many of our soldiers, sailors, 
airmen, and marines are forced into battle with the older, inferior 
equipment.

Many other countries are able to buy avionics, airframes, and 
weapons--often mixed and matched together--to create aircraft that 
rival our current F-15, F-16, or Navy and Marine F-18, such as Russian 
Su-30s and 35s, or upgraded MiG-21s and MiG-29s. We can solve this 
problem if we decide to make the investment in our F-22 and F-35 
programs, and buy the number needed to ensure American air superiority 
in the future. Despite the Air Force's requirement for 381 F-22 
Raptors, it is now slated to only obtain 183.

Some systems in the Army are overmatched by systems sold by other 
countries. Four other countries have


better artillery systems than the U.S. The British AS90, the Russian 
2S19, the South African G6, and the German PzH 2000 are all superior in 
rate of fire and range to our Paladin. Though we are currently 
investing in Future Combat Systems, the Army has been forced to extend 
the production time by 4 years.

Our Navy and Marine Corps are being challenged by a variety of 
threats ranging from near-peer competitors, to non-state and 
transnational actors, to rogue nations and pirates. While trying to 
sustain and recapitalize their ships, submarines, aircraft, and ground 
equipment, they are being challenged across the globe. Russian and 
Chinese submarines continue to threaten our forces with China operating 
over 60 submarines. China, Japan, Australia, India, Malaysia, Pakistan, 
Indonesia, Singapore, Bangladesh, and South and North Korea either now 
have or are planning to acquire submarines. While most do not pose much 
of a threat to our more advanced fleet, that dynamic is changing. It is 
simply unacceptable that we have been forced into this predicament.

One can never predict future threats accurately. Our level of defense 
spending must consider the resources needed to meet current and future 
threats. A Pentagon official claimed 15 years ago that in 10 years we 
would no longer need a standing army. This is not the only example of 
flawed strategic thinking. We weren't able to predict the fall of the 
Soviet Union, or the rise in asymmetric warfare that we are currently 
engaged in. We built a force for 50 years that was predicated upon the 
idea that we would be fighting a conventional war against the Soviets 
in the heart of Europe. It doesn't matter how great our military 
leaders or intelligence is, our strategic thinking will always be 
imperfect. There will always be unknowns.

Tying defense spending to GDP accomplishes three things. First, it 
will allow our military to develop and build the next generation of 
weapons and equipment: Weapons and equipment that will be needed to 
maintain national security for the next 30 years; that will provide 
increased capability across the spectrum of warfare; and that have 
lower lifetime costs and increased readiness rates.

Second, it provides predictability for our military and industrial 
base. It allows the Department of Defense and the Services to plan and 
fund their acquisition programs based on a minimum known budget. We are 
no longer able to complete purchases of large acquisition programs in 3 
to 5 years. To recapitalize the entire Air Force tanker fleet will take 
over 30 years. Programming from a known minimum budget for the out 
years will translate to less reprogramming and more stability for 
thousands of businesses throughout the United States at decreased 
costs.

Finally, a commitment to a minimum defense budget sends a clear 
signal to our military, allies, and enemies alike that we are committed 
to the security of our nation and the preservation of freedom and 
democracy around the world. Congress must provide the Department of 
Defense with the certainty and stability that comes with a long-term 
defense-spending plan.