# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `e4930b895f4a9842896ac5126caf0c7a`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Madam President, more time has passed, and more 
American troops have lost their lives overseas. I feel very strongly 
that we should take a few moments in the U.S. Senate to honor them.

Outside my office here in Washington, we have a tribute called 
''Faces of the Fallen.'' Visitors to the Senate from across the country 
have stopped by the memorial. I encourage my colleagues to come see 
this tribute on the third floor of the Hart Building.

I last came to the Senate floor to honor our fallen troops at the end 
of May. And between that time and the end of June, the Pentagon 
announced the deaths of 165 troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. I want them 
to be remembered. So today, I will insert their names into the Record:

SPC James L. Adair, of Carthage, TX; SSG Robb L. Rolfing, of Milton,


MA; SGT Shin W. Kim, of Fullerton, CA; SGT Michael J. Martinez, of 
Chula Vista, CA; SGT Giann C. Joya Mendoza, of North Hollywood, CA; SPC 
Dustin L. Workman II, of Greenwood, NE; PFC Cory F. Hiltz, of La Verne, 
CA; SGT William W. Crow Jr., of Grandview Plaza, KS; SGT Frank M. 
Sandoval, of Yuma, AZ; SSG Daniel A. Newsome, of Chicopee, MA; SFC 
Nathan L. Winder, of Blanding, UT; CAPT Darrell C. Lewis, of 
Washington, DC; SGT Joel A. Dahl, of Los Lunas, NM; PFC Andre Craig 
Jr., of New Haven, CT; CPL Derek C. Dixon, of Riverside, OH; SPC Eric 
C. Palmer, of Maize, KS; SGT Michael J. Montpetit, of Honolulu, HI; PFC 
Henry G. Byrd III, of Veguita, NM; SGT William E. Brown, of Phil 
Campbell, AL; SPC Dominic N. Rodriguez, of Klamath Falls, OR; 1LT 
Daniel P. Riordan, of St. Louis, MO; SGT Joel A. House, of Lee, ME; SGT 
Jimy M. Malone, of Wills Point, TX; SPC Derek A. Calhoun, of Oklahoma 
City, OK; SSG Michael D. Moody Jr., of Richmond, VA; SGT Chris Davis, 
of Lubbock, TX; PVT Shane M. Stinson, of Fullerton, CA; SPC Carter A. 
Gamble Jr., of Brownstown, IN; PFC Jerimiah J. Veitch, of Dibble, OK; 
MAJ Sid W. Brookshire, of MO; SSG Darren P. Hubbell, of Tifton, GA; SPC 
Joe G. Charfauros Jr, of Rota, Mariana Islands; SPC Joseph P. Kenny, of 
Veneta, OR; SGT Alphonso J. Montenegro II, of Far Rockaway, NY; SGT 
Ryan M. Wood, of Oklahoma City, OK; PFC Daniel J. Agami, of Coconut 
Creek, FL; PFC Anthony D. Hebert, of Lake City, MN; PFC Thomas R. 
Leemhuis, of Binger, OK; A1C Jason D. Nathan, of Macon, GA; SPC Karen 
N. Clifton, of Lehigh Acres, FL; PFC Raymond N. Spencer Jr., of 
Carmichael, CA; PFC Jacob T. Tracy, of Palestine, IL; SGT Shawn P. 
Martin, of Delmar, NY; SSG Stephen J. Wilson, of Duluth, GA; SGT Dustin 
J. Perrott, of Fredericksburg, VA; SFC William A. Zapfe, of Muldraugh, 
KY; PFC Joshua S. Modgling, of Las Vegas, NE; SPC Darryl W. Linder, of 
Hickory, NC; SGT Derek T. Roberts, of Gold River, CA; SPC Val J. Borm, 
of Sidney, NE; PFC Larry Parks Jr., of Altoona, PA; SGT Richard K. 
Parker, of Phillips, ME; CAPT Joshua E. Steele, of North Henderson, IL; 
SFC Christopher D. Henderson, of Hillsboro, OR; SFC John M. Hennen, of 
Vinton, LA; PFC David A. Wilkey Jr., of Elkhart, IN; 1LT Frank B. 
Walkup, IV, of Woodbury, TN; SSG Roy P. Lewsader, Jr., of Belleville, 
IL; SGT Danny R. Soto, of Houston, TX; CPL Zachary A. Grass, of Beach 
City, OH; PFC Michael P. Pittman, of Davenport, IA; CPL Dustin R. 
Brisky, of Round Rock, TX; SSG Michael A. Bechert, of New Castle, IN; 
MAJ Kevin H. Sonnenberg, of McClure, OH; MSG Arthur L. Lilley, of 
Smithfield, PA; PFC Casey S. Carriker, of Hoquiam, WA; SPC Josiah W. 
Hollopeter, of San Diego, CA; LTC Glade L. Felix, of Lake Park, GA; SPC 
Damon G. LeGrand, of Lakeside, CA; LCpl Johnny R. Strong, of Waco, TX; 
PVT William C. Johnson, of Oxford, NC; PFC Cameron K. Payne, of Corona, 
CA; CPL Llythaniele Fender, of Medical Lake, WA; CPL Meresebang 
Ngiraked, of Koror, Republic of Palau; SPC Adam G. Herold, of Omaha, 
NE; PVT Scott A. Miller of Casper, WY; SGT Cory M. Endlich of 
Massillon, OH; SSG Brian M. Long of Burns, WY; SGT Charles E. Wyckoff 
Jr. of Chula Vista, CA; SGT Dariek E. Dehn of Spangle, WA; A1C Eric M. 
Barnes of Lorain, OH; SFC Greg L. Sutton of Spring Lake, NC; SrA 
William N. Newman of Kingston Springs, TN; PFC Timothy R. Vimoto of 
Fort Campbell, KY; SGT Matthew Soper of Kalamazoo, MI; SGT Kimel L. 
Watt of Brooklyn, NY; PFC Justin A. Verdeja of La Puente, CA; PFC Shawn 
D. Gajdos of Grand Rapids, MI; SSG Timothy B. Cole Jr. of Missouri 
City, TX; SSG Juan F. Campos of McAllen, TX; SPC Jacob M. Lowell of New 
Lenox, IL; SGT Andrews J. Higgins of Hayward, CA; SSG Greg P. Gagarin 
of Los Angeles, CA; SGT James C. Akin of Albuquerque, NM; SGT Tyler J. 
Kritz of Eagle River, WI; SGT Robert A. Surber of Inverness, FL; SGT 
Caleb P. Christopher of Chandler, AZ; TSgt Ryan A. Balmer of Mishawaka, 
IN; SSG Matthew J. Kuglics of North Canton, OH; SPC Jeremiah D. 
Costello of Carlinville, IL; SPC Keith V. Nepsa of New Philadelphia, 
OH; SGT Charles R. Browning of Tucson, AZ; SGT Shawn E. Dressler of 
Santa Maria, CA; PFC Joshua D. Brown of Tampa, FL; CWO Christopher M. 
Allgaier of Middleton, MO; CWO Joshua R. Rodgers of Carson City, NV; 
SSG Charlie L. Bagwell of Lake Toxaway, NC; SGT Jesse A. Blamires of 
West Jordan, UT; SGT Brandon E. Hadaway of Valley, AL; SSG Travis W. 
Atkins of Bozeman, MT; SGT Bruce E. Horner or Newport News, VA; LTC 
Michael A. Robinson of Sylacauga, AL; SPC Doonewey White of Milpitas, 
CA; SPC William J. Crouch of Zachary, LA; 1LT Kile G. West of Pasadena, 
TX; SGT Anthony D. Ewing of Phoenix, AZ; CPL Zachary D. Baker of 
Vilonia, AR; CPL James E. Summers the 3rd of Bourbon, MO; SPC Alexandre 
A. Alexeev of Wilmington, CA; SGT Bacilio E. Cuellar of Odessa, TX; SPC 
James E. Lundin of Bellport, NY; PFC Joshua M. Moore of Russellville, 
KY; CPL Jonathan A. Markham of Bedford, TX; PFC Matthew E. Baylis of 
Oakdale, NY; PFC Matthew A. Bean of Pembroke, MA; PFC Robert A. Liggett 
of Urbana, IL; SGT Richard V. Correa of Honolulu, HI; 1LT Keith N. 
Heidtman of Norwich, CT; CWO Theodore U. Church, OH; SSG Thomas M. 
McFall of Glendora, CA; PFC Junior Cedeno Sanchez of Miami, FL; PFC 
Charles B. Hester of Cataldo, ID; SPC Clinton C. Blodgett of Pekin, IN; 
LCpl Emmanuel Villarreal of Eagle Pass, TX; SPC Francis M. Trussel Jr. 
of Lincoln, IL; SPC Mark R. C. Caguioa of Stockton, CA; LCpl David P. 
Lindsey; SGT Nicholas R. Walsh; SPC Erich S. Smallwood of Trumann, AR; 
PVT William L. Bailey the 3rd of Bellevue, NE; SPC Alexander Rosa Jr. 
of Orlando, FL; SPC Mathew P. LaForest of Austin, TX; SFC Robert E. 
Dunham of Baltimore, MD; SSG Russell K. Shoemaker of Sweet Springs, MO; 
CPL Victor H. Toledo Pulido of Hanford, CA; CPL Jonathan D. 
Winterbottom of Falls Church, VA; PFC Casey P. Zylman of Coleman, MI; 
SGT Iosiwo Uruo of Agana Heights, Guam; PFC Robert H. Dembowski of 
Ivyland, PA; SSG Steve Butcher Jr. of Penfield, NY; PFC Daniel P. Cagle 
of Carson, CA; SPC Benjamin J. Ashley of Independence, MO; SSG 
Kristopher A. Higdon of Odessa, TX; PFC Robert A. Worthington of 
Jackson, GA; SSG David C. Kuehl of Wahpeton, ND; SSG Shannon V. Weaver 
of Urich, MO; SGT Brian D. Ardron of Acworth, GA; CPL Michael W. Davis 
of San Marcos, TX; SGT Robert J. Montgomery Jr. of Scottsburg, IN; PVT 
Oscar Sauceda Jr. of Del Rio, TX; SSG Joseph M. Weiglein of Audubon, 
NJ; SGT Eric L. Snell, of Trenton, NJ; SPC Farid Elazzouzi, of 
Paterson, NJ; PFC David J. Bentz III, of Newfield, NJ; SGT Trista L. 
Moretti, of South Plainfield, NJ.


Madam President, as you heard, this list includes five soldiers from 
New Jersey: SSG Joseph Weiglein; SGT Eric L. Snell; SPC Farid 
Elazzouzi; PFC David J. Bentz III; and SGT Trista L. Moretti.

Staff Sergeant Weiglein was killed after an IED, or ''improvised 
explosive device,'' blew up while he was on patrol. He was 31.

Sergeant Snell died after his unit came under fire from insurgents in 
Baghdad. He was 35.

Specialist Elazzouzi was killed by an IED, after it exploded outside 
his vehicle. He was 26.

Private First Class Bentz was also killed by an IED, after it 
exploded outside his vehicle. He was 20 years old.

And Sergeant Moretti died of injuries sustained in combat. She was 
27.

To date, more than 3,500 American men and women have lost their lives 
in Iraq. And more than 400 have lost their lives in Afghanistan. We 
will not forget them and the Nation will not forget their sacrifice.
