---
---

# WELCOME HOME VIETNAM VETERANS DAY
## `e4a01b4e4aa573d8a1db46d3cd089d13`
`Mr. WALZ — 24 March 2009`

---


Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 234, 
expressing support for designation of a ''Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans 
Day.''

The very fact that we are deliberating about a ''welcome home'' for 
Vietnam veterans in 2009, decades after our participation in that 
conflict came to an end, says it all. Don't get me wrong. Those 
veterans eminently deserve that welcome, and the thanks for serving our 
Nation that comes with it. But it remains far too long overdue. Those 
veterans should have been welcomed home from day one. And yet, as the 
resolution says, ''the Vietnam War was an extremely divisive issue 
among the people of the United States'' and so ''members of the United 
States Armed Forces who served bravely and faithfully for the United 
States during the Vietnam War were caught upon their return home in the 
crossfire of public debate about the involvement of the United States 
in the Vietnam War.''

I want to thank those veterans not just for their service to our 
Nation in Vietnam, but for their service to our Nation upon their 
return, service that forms the backbone of support for veterans today. 
As we have confronted yet another divisive war these last few years, we 
have welcomed our returning servicemen and--women differently, honoring 
them appropriately and immediately. And that is largely because of 
those veterans of Vietnam.

As a 24-year veteran myself and as a member of the House Veterans 
Affairs Committee, I have seen a remarkable thing happen. Time and time 
again, I have heard Vietnam veterans--from witnesses at committee 
hearings and elsewhere--make clear that we cannot let one generation of 
veterans abandon another. We have to make sure this new generation of 
Iraq and Afghanistan veterans do not have to go through all the 
hardships we know all too well are awaiting them if we do not act to 
prevent them.

Whether it be access to VA health care, the specific mental health 
issues that some veterans face after the war, the problem of 
homelessness among


veterans, preventing our veterans from ending up incarcerated, or even 
the public perception of veterans and the way veterans think about and 
understand themselves as veterans--we know the dangers that are out 
there, thanks in no small part to Vietnam veterans working together, 
and we know we have to act aggressively to make sure we fulfill our 
commitment to our newest veterans.

For my part, I see no more important task as a member of Congress and 
of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee.

But I also have to say, I think something else has started to happen 
as we as a country have worked to honor and do justice to the veterans 
of our current conflicts--regardless of how we feel individually about 
the war itself. I think just as Vietnam veterans have done for Iraq and 
Afghanistan veterans what World War I veterans did for World War II 
veterans, supporting the next generation of veterans, I think our 
society's treatment of our newest veterans has begun a really renewed 
appreciation for and a different, more positive public perception of 
Vietnam veterans themselves.

What you all went through when you came home is something that never 
should be repeated. And it should not have happened in the first place. 
But it says something about you as a group and America as a society 
that we have finally, I think, started to move away from the ugliness 
of that time, and from the stereotypes and cliches about Vietnam 
veterans.

The new congressional majority that I was a part of forming in 2006 
committed to making our military and our veterans an absolutely top 
priority. And we did that last Congress, and we continue to do that in 
this new Congress. Last Congress, we passed the largest veterans 
funding increase in history, increasing pay for our military and 
providing them with more of the protection they need when they go into 
battle, passing into law a historic new GI Bill that should do for our 
21st century veterans what the original GI Bill did after World War II.

And we will continue that work in this Congress, putting America's 
veterans first and working to provide them with the care and benefits 
they deserve.

The debt we owe those who serve our country honorably in the military 
is never fully paid. But we owe that obligation to our veterans, and it 
begins with a full welcome home. The Nation can never fully repair the 
damage done with the failure to immediately and fully welcome home our 
veterans from Vietnam. But it is never too late to continue recognizing 
the obligation we owe you, and thanking you for what you have done and 
what you continue to do.