---
---

# DISCUSSING THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `e4a2a73b990f73369267337b35825e5d`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. It's very important. I sit on the Armed Services 
Committee and the Subcommittees on Personnel and Readiness. So I hear 
every day what the President's impact has had on personnel and on 
readiness. I would like to address both of them.

Supporting the troops is a lot more than putting a yellow ribbon on a 
car. The ''Support the Troops'' sound coming out of the White House 
rings hollow to my ears after 6 months on the Armed Services Committee. 
I will give you an example. Here we have the most wonderful troops in 
the world, committed volunteers who signed up out of love and 
patriotism for their country. It came time for a pay raise, and the 
President only wanted 3 percent.

The House of Representatives, bipartisan, said they wanted 3.5 
percent pay raise. So, how much is 3.5 percent versus the President's 
percent? Well for an E-4, it would be $200 a year. I know, from sitting 
on the Personnel Subcommittee, what a strain this is on their families 
and the cost of having a loved one gone and having to get day care and 
having to get extra help and not having the same support system that 
they have when they have their spouse or family member with them.

Yet the President said 3 percent was sufficient. He was angry enough, 
when the House voted for a 3.5 percent pay raise, that he listed it as 
one of the reasons that he would consider vetoing the bill. If you 
can't give an E-4, who is serving his or her country, $200 a year, then 
all the talk you want about supporting the troops is hollow, and it 
really ranks sour for the rest of us.

You look at readiness, and you realize the Army has been so impacted 
by this, that I actually voted to grow the size of the Army. I also 
voted for the largest, we all did, the largest military budget in 
history.

As a direct result of the President's misguided policy, he has left 
us in such a weakened state around the world, that we have to grow the 
size of the Army. We have to put more incentives in there, and we have 
to put the largest budget in there.

You know, we do have enemies in this world. We know that. We have a 
lot of enemies. They weren't in Iraq, but we do have enemies.

Peter Pace, a general, was asked if he were comfortable with the 
ability of the United States to respond to an emerging threat around 
the world. He paused for a moment, and he said, no, I'm not 
comfortable. That should frighten all of us.

If the general doesn't feel that we could respond to an emerging 
threat because all of our resources and all of our treasure and all of 
our people are planted inside of Iraq, we have a real problem. This is 
why we had to have that vote today, and this is why we need to get out 
of this war.

You know, I have been very disturbed by the way it has been treated 
like a political issue. It's not.

The freshman class that came here to make the change have been going 
to Iraq at great personal risk to themselves to have a look and to be 
sure that they are right about their position against this war. One by 
one we have come back, as you know, and said, no, we were right about 
this. What we saw was horrific. We saw a very sad, destroyed country. 
We saw a country at war with itself in Iraq, and we saw our troops 
stuck in the middle of the civil war.

Fortunately, there are some Republicans who are now breaking away 
from the President's grip and speaking the truth about this war. I just 
wanted to read a couple of them. I will leave their names out, because 
who they are is not important, except to say that they are Senators.

Here's one, ''We need to be fighting terrorists, not civil wars . . . 
Iraq's peace is one they must win on their own. We cannot win it for 
them. Our might should be focused on stopping terrorists who are 
plotting to bring harm to the United States.''

Here is another Republican Senator, ''A policy of responsible 
military disengagement with a corresponding increase [in] nonmilitary 
support is the best way to advance our Nation's interests.''

Another one, ''There's nothing to wait for. Almost everybody that has 
any knowledge of the reports . . . would indicate they are not going to 
show any degree of a big change that we needed. So we are just wasting 
time.''

If we are going to fight terrorism, first of all, we need to protect 
our own homeland.

You know, if you know there is a burglar in the neighborhood, first 
thing you do is lock your own door. We didn't do that. If you look at 
the little money we have invested in Homeland Security, you will know 
that we are no safer than we were before 9/11, that we took the money 
and we went to Iraq.

Now why did we go to Iraq? I guess that's the question that hangs in 
everybody's mind. There were no Iraqis on the plane that day. There was 
no evidence that Iraq was ready to attack us. We were misled, 
misguided, got into this war. What's happened to us? Are we safer here? 
No, of course not.

Are we in more danger there? Yes. Have we destabilized the region? 
Yes. Do we have to worry about growth of al Qaeda? Yes.

However, the good news is, yesterday at a hearing on global security, 
there was a Member of the CIA and a couple of others who spoke, and 
they said that we do not have to fear Iran's sway over Iraq.

Let's remember, Iran and Iraq were bitter enemies who fought an 8-
year war. They are not natural allies. They are only allies right now 
because of us. Once we leave, it's my fervent hope and belief that it 
will calm down.