---
---

# CHIP
## `e4a2583fb8862b23089d9a2cee1de6ef`
`Mr. HATCH — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I won't take much time about SCHIP, only 
to say I hope our colleagues will vote for the SCHIP bill. It is a real 
bipartisan effort made by Democrats and Republicans over a long period 
of time with a lot of give by House Democrats and House Democratic 
leadership because they wanted a bill. I hope we pass that bill. I will 
identify my remarks to a large degree with the remarks of the 
distinguished Senator from Iowa who spoke earlier.















 Amendment No. 3047


Madam President, I wish to discuss an amendment addressing the 
subject of hate crimes that I have filed on this national defense bill. 
I do not think that hate crimes legislation should be attached to this 
defense bill. The issue of hate crimes has nothing to do with the 
matter before us, our national defense.

Frankly, this Kennedy amendment has no relationship, as far as I am 
concerned, to this very important bill intended to help our military, 
and it should not be included on this legislation. Yet, as long as my 
colleagues insisted on filing a politically problematic hate crimes 
amendment to this legislation, it was important that we have a balanced 
debate.

My amendment would provide Federal assistance to the States and 
localities in the prosecution and investigation of bias motivated 
violence. That is what we are talking about here: bias motivated 
violence.

I want to be absolutely clear. No one--nobody in this entire body or 
institution--believes for one second that such crimes are ever 
acceptable. Nobody in this body believes that. So those who want to 
make political points by suggesting that are plain wrong, and they 
should stop.

The question is: What is the proper role of the Federal Government in 
the prosecution of these crimes? This needs to be a matter that we keep 
in careful balance. Our States are the primary guarantors of our rights 
and liberties. As far as I can see, having watched it for years, the 
States have handled these crimes very well. In every case I can think 
of--there may be some exceptions, but I don't know of any--the State 
has handled these matters adequately and well and people have been 
prosecuted and convicted. Some have been put to death; others have been 
sentenced for life.

The States are the primary guarantors of our rights and liberties. I 
think we must respect the hard and decent work of the States as they 
secure equal justice under the law for all of our citizens in the 
respective States.

With due respect to my colleagues and good friends, Senators Kennedy 
and Smith, I do not think this amendment strikes the right balance. In 
fact, I think this amendment is not needed. It has plenty of 
difficulties. It is constitutionally very questionable.

And frankly, it should not be on this bill. If they want to bring it 
up, they can do it separately. It should not be on the bill because the 
President indicated that he is not going to put up with this type of 
legislation on this bill. This is not because of a lack of dedication 
on his part in prohibiting hate crimes. He is as dedicated as anybody 
in this body to targeting these crimes, and that includes the 
distinguished Senator from Massachusetts.

So I rise to oppose both hate crimes and the Kennedy hate crimes 
amendment. A conviction against bias-motivated violence does not 
justify supporting a proposal that is unwise, unnecessary, and 
unconstitutional.

This amendment would create a new Federal criminal felony, punishable 
by up to 10 years in prison, for willfully causing bodily injury 
because of a person's perceived race, color, national origin, religion, 
gender, sexual orientation, disability, or--get this--gender identity.

Senator Kennedy made a specific point earlier today that this new 
felony is not related to Federal jurisdiction. He said such a 
requirement would be ''outdated, unwise, and unnecessary,'' but that 
requirement is grounded in the Constitution itself. With all due 
respect to my friend from Massachusetts, the Constitution is not 
outdated, unwise or unnecessary.

Not only does Congress lack authority to create such a freestanding 
hate crimes felony, the States are already handling this issue.

The Kennedy proposal would end up treating the less serious bias 
crimes too harshly, putting people who committed misdemeanors under 
State law in Federal prison, and treating the most serious bias crimes 
too harshly, with no death penalty even for the most heinous murders as 
in the case of James Byrd in Texas.

This bill goes further even than the Kennedy proposals of the past.

Let me mention a number of problems that I perceive with Senator 
Kennedy's hate crimes amendment. First, as noted yesterday, the Kennedy 
amendment is different from the hate crimes bill offered in past 
Congresses. This amendment adds ''perceived . . . gender identity'' as 
a protected class. What does this concept mean? The Senate has held no 
hearings on the meaning of this phrase or how far this phrase would 
allow the courts to go. How far would some of the courts interpret this 
phrase? The bill's definition is vague; it raises more questions than 
it answers. Would this include wearing an earring? Would it include an 
assault of a man with long hair or a woman with short hair? What about 
a woman wearing long hair? Are all protected the same under Federal 
law? What about different kinds of clothing?

Clearly, there would be cases that fall safely within the drafters' 
intent, but can Senators be confident of what this language means? I do 
not think so. Do they want to pass a law to put judges or juries in 
charge of interpreting the meaning of clothing and personal style? 
Again, there have been no hearings in the Senate to give any guidance 
to Senators for this vote.

When the House passed this bill, the White House released a SAP 
promising a veto. To pass the Kennedy amendment is to jeopardize the 
Defense authorization bill altogether.

The Justice Department has also indicated it supports the concepts 
found in my alternative proposal.

There is no evidence that hate crimes go unprosecuted in the States. 
For example, as Dr. Coburn recently pointed out on the floor, the 
killers of Matthew Shepard--for whom this bill is named--were 
successfully prosecuted under State law. And recall that the killers of 
James Byrd in Texas several years ago were sentenced to death under 
State law. But there is no death penalty provided for in the Kennedy 
amendment. By the way, Senator Kennedy cannot make the case that the 
States are inadequate in their handling of these crimes. I don't think 
he can


make the case the States are not doing a good job of handling these 
crimes. These kind of crimes are intra-State crimes. I do not think he 
can make the case there is a sufficient nexus of interstate commerce to 
justify what I consider to be the unconstitutional Kennedy amendment.

The Senator from Massachusetts stated earlier that ''all hate crimes 
will face a Federal prosecution.''

If that is true, then prepare for a massive federalization of basic 
criminal law, which is handled well by the States. Maybe 100 years ago 
you could find States not enforcing hate crime laws, but I do not think 
you will find that today in any State in this Union. There is not a 
person in the Senate who wants those crimes to go unpunished. But the 
States are handling them well. Why would we bring the almighty arm of 
the Federal Government into these matters?


There are also several reasons this bill is unconstitutional. 
Consider one: The Supreme Court held that certain of the criminal 
provisions of the Violence Against Women Act were unconstitutional 
because most crimes of violence against women were not interstate in 
nature. I have to admit I was a prime cosponsor, along with Senator 
Biden, of VAWA. I was somewhat disappointed in that decision, but that 
is the decision. That is our constitutional law. The Kennedy amendment 
would criminalize many physical and sexual assaults. The same 
constitutional issues are at stake.

Again, I decry hate crimes. I do not believe there should be evil 
discrimination, bias discrimination, in any way, shape or form. I have 
always stood up for the rights of those who have been discriminated 
against. I may have differed on some bills, as I do on this one. But I 
decry these types of acts. But to federalize hate crimes legislation 
and to make it not only burdensome but very intrusive on the State's 
work in this area, I think, is the wrong thing to do.

I hope my colleagues will consider some of these thoughts. I will 
speak in more detail tomorrow. But the fact of the matter is I think it 
is a real mistake, when the States are doing as good a job as they have 
been doing, when the very crimes they use to justify this bill were 
handled by the States and people were sentenced to long terms, or even 
to death, I think it is inadvisable for us to proceed on this 
amendment.

Last but not least, the President said he is going to veto the bill 
if Senator Kennedy's amendment makes it in. I think it is wrong to put 
this amendment into this Defense Authorization Act. It has been wrong, 
as far as I am concerned, to have a lot of these amendments that have 
been brought up on the floor that have nothing to do with Defense 
authorization, or have everything to do with trying to score political 
points, at a time when we should have passed this bill 2 weeks ago and 
gotten it on its way to the House of Representatives and then to the 
President, so our soldiers will have the benefits this bill provides 
for.

Adding hate crimes to it may lead to a veto of the whole bill. That 
would be just plain tragic, especially since we know of the President's 
suggestion that he will veto the hate crimes bill. So I am concerned 
about it. I understand Senator Kennedy's motivation on this. He wants 
to get it on a bill that has to pass both Houses of Congress. But it 
ought to be on a bill related to hate crimes or related to criminal 
law, not something that can scuttle this important Defense 
authorization bill. I personally feel badly that so many of these days 
have gone by with amendments that have nothing to do with the defense 
of our country or our soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan and elsewhere 
around the world.

I yield the floor.