---
---

# None
## `e4a7488d46a25e7032f6effc9a83be83`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 10 June 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished chairperson 
of the Africa Subcommittee on Foreign Affairs and the full committee 
chair, Mr. Berman, and the ranking member of the full committee, Ms. 
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, and the ranking member of the subcommittee that 
Mr. Payne chairs.

This is an important reiteration of this Congress' commitment to the 
premises of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And I might 
read, in part, the language of this declaration that says, ''The 
recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable 
rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, 
justice and peace in the world.''

I believe that there is no better time than the time that we are 
engaged in today, the era of the world status, to reemphasize the 
importance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.



The United Nations General Assembly proclaimed it on December 10, 
1948, and the language stated that it was declared as a ''common 
standard of achievement for all peoples and nations.'' Sadly, in the 
21st century, when we would hope to be celebrating the foundation of 
freedom, justice and peace to the world, the world is conflicted. It is 
conflicted in Iraq, where the different, distinctive ethnic groups of 
Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds are engaged in violations, respectively, of 
each of them by the other. And so even in a place of disruption in 
Iraq, in a war that I oppose, we have concerns that are ignoring the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We must call for the protection 
of human rights in Iraq. We must call for the protection of human 
rights in Iran.

Today, I had the chance to speak to a young woman in Iran long 
distance, international conversation to Miriam, a young woman of 22, 
who had a wonderful vision in front of us for freedom, and the ability 
to be the best interior designer the world would know. To do that, she 
must have freedom, justice and peace in the world. The Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights must apply to Iran.

And as we look to the tragedy in Burma, now some weeks old, to 
understand that the junta continues to oppress those who suffer from 
the terrible and horrific tragedy that occurred, that people sit along 
roadsides trying to find, if you will, the resources that will come to 
them through the international aid organizations, and their oppressive 
regime is denying them that right.