---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `e4b06f24c25a18273fd3bb6ea0c1a86c`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, 4 years ago President Bush sent our 
troops to war without a plan for success in Iraq, and without a plan to 
care for our wounded soldiers returning home.

During those 4 years, the old Congress rubber-stamped the failed 
policies of the Bush administration. The American people know well that 
when you ignore failure and bad decisions, you simply get more of them.

Today, we are demanding accountability for a change, accountability 
to ensure that our troops get the training and equipment they need, 
accountability to ensure that our wounded soldiers returning home are 
treated with a dignity that they deserve. We hold the Iraqi government 
accountable for taking the steps toward political reconciliation which 
they, themselves, have said are necessary to achieve stability.

The accountability measures in this bill track the recommendations 
made by the independent bipartisan Baker-Hamilton Commission. The 
President chose to reject those recommendations and, instead, to 
escalate the war in Iraq.

At the same time, the President has not paid adequate attention to 
those who were responsible for the attacks of September 11, 2001, al 
Qaeda, operating out of Afghanistan.

This bill provides additional resources for completing that mission 
and for holding those responsible who did attack us on September 11. Al 
Qaeda is still plotting against us. It demands accountability, it 
supports our troops, and it strengthens our national security.

Mr. Speaker, it is time for a change and direction in Iraq. It is 
time to bring some accountability to the history of failed decisions we 
have made so we don't continue to make the same bad decisions going 
forward. The American people asked for and deserve a change in 
direction. That is what this bill does.

