# EXPRESSING SENSE OF THE HOUSE REGARDING SEPTEMBER 11, 2001
## `e4b4d10ca4db29570dd01c73c4470eb5`
`Mr. McCAUL — 9 September 2009`

---


Mr. McCAUL. I thank the gentlelady.

Mr. Speaker, today we rise as Americans, first and foremost, to 
remember: to remember the victims of 9/11, the 3,000 Americans who were 
killed on that day; to remember the fallen heroes, the firefighters, 
the police officers who rescued so many lives and some who gave the 
ultimate sacrifice.

I remember watching the television on 9/11 with my daughter as the 
second airplane flew into the building and she said, Daddy, why did 
that airplane fly into the building? And by the time the second one 
hit, we all knew that this was no accident; this was an intentional act 
of terrorism, an act of war against the United States.

I was a counterterrorism prosecutor in the Justice Department. We saw 
many warning signs--the embassies in Africa, the USS Cole, 1993 World 
Trade Center, Ramzi Yousef, who almost brought the World Trade Center 
down that day--when they arrested him in Islamabad, many of you may not 
know this, but they found 12 baby dolls stuffed with chemical 
explosives that he intended to take on airplanes, part of the Bojinka 
plot to blow up 12 airplanes simultaneously.

The evil genius, his uncle, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the mastermind of 
9/11, who to this day the information we obtained from him has saved 
American lives, the most chilling experience I've had as a Member of 
Congress was to see Khalid Sheikh Mohammed imprisoned down in 
Guantanamo, the man who was responsible for killing 3,000 Americans.

As the 9/11 Commission said, the only way we will ultimately prevail 
in this twilight struggle is through good intelligence. We cannot tie 
the hands of the intelligence community. We cannot threaten them with 
prosecution. We cannot have a global justice policy that Mirandizes 
terrorists captured on the battlefield in Afghanistan when the first 
words we say to them is, You have the right to remain silent. How in 
the world will we get good intelligence with that kind of policy?

And if I could close with an FBI quote before 9/11 that said, ''Some 
day someone will die and the public will not understand why we were not 
more effective at throwing every resource we had at certain problems, 
especially since the biggest threat to us now, Osama bin Laden, is now 
getting the most protection.''