---
---

# None
## `e4b6368a140b55b3e0f6d7152fcd5cab`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. One last point before we recognize Ms. Jackson-
Lee because I know we want to get to our next discussion, get into the 
budget.

Mr. Speaker, to hear the President say even the word ''veto'' is 
something we have never heard since he has been President of the United 
States. He has never vetoed anything. Spending out of control, foreign 
debt, record numbers, passing tax cuts for the superwealthy and for the 
special interests, President never said a mumbling word. Cricket sounds 
of special interest subsidies and tax breaks, rolling through this 
floor, Members held hostage here on the floor, voting for special 
interest legislation for hours upon hours, the board is left open, not 
a mumbling word out of the President, not a mumbling word.

And now legislation happens to pass that he no longer has his rubber 
stamp Congress, he no longer has a Speaker who says, hey, this is the 
way I want it or no longer has President, this is the way we want to do 
it over in the Senate, so shall it be written, so shall it be done, his 
original thoughts are not followed through here in the Congress. Since 
that no longer exists, now all of the sudden, the President wants to 
get animated when it comes down to I am going to veto what they send 
and they are blocking money.

We are not blocking money for the troops. Matter of fact, we are 
giving them more than what he asked for. We are dealing with the issue 
of the VA. We are dealing with the issue of the crisis that we have 
here in the United States of America. It is an emergency. The children 
do not have health care. This is not an emergency for Iraqi children. 
It is an emergency for kids in Alabama. It is an emergency for the kids 
in Georgia, and it is an emergency for the kids in the Midwest and in 
Florida.

This chart here, and I am going to leave it alone and I am going to 
recognize Ms. Jackson-Lee, I have over 12 percent of uninsured. This is 
my State here in Florida. Over 12 percent of the children in the State 
of Florida, more than 12 percent are uninsured. That is my State. 
Texas, hello, President of the United States, he has a house there. It 
is where the West White House is. Over 12 percent of the children in 
that State do not have health insurance. This is an emergency to the 
American families. This is an emergency here in this country. It cannot 
be Iraq, Iraq, Iraq, and that other issue, Iraq.

We have to care about our own country, and if we cannot put that in 
an emergency supplemental without the President threatening a veto, if 
he vetoes that bill he is denying U.S. children, need it be Republican, 
Democrat, Independent, concerned citizen thinking about voting in the 
next election, yes, your children, too; yes your State, too; yes, your 
community, too, will be without health insurance because the last 
Congress decided not to do it. They decided not to do it, and I think 
it is important when you look at this, as we move into the budget, if 
we were to follow what the President wants to do as it relates to 
vetoing this emergency supplemental, $2 billion for what we call the 
State insurance plan for children. In the budget resolution that we 
have, $50 billion to make sure that we cover the costs of that as we 
look in the projection as the years go out.

So I am glad that Mr. Ryan is bringing these issues up, and as we now 
segue into the budget, the next thing you know, Mr. Speaker, I guess 
when we pass this budget tomorrow, we will probably end up being a 
bipartisan vote just like the emergency supplemental was a bipartisan 
vote in the House and Senate, that the President will probably have a 
press conference tomorrow and say I am going to veto the budget, too. 
So, if he now believes in vetoes, after 6 years of being President of 
these United States, out-of-control spending, record borrowing from 
foreign Nations, and now there are accountability measures in the 
budget and in the emergency supplemental, I do not even want to tell 
the President to have at it because, as an American, I am going to do 
everything I have to do to stop him from doing it.

I yield to Ms. Jackson-Lee.