# U.S. PRESENCE IN AFGHANISTAN
## `e4b7f8e49a182282d3cf10b787408a15`
`Mr. JONES — 8 September 2009`

---


Mr. JONES. Madam Speaker, on June 25, 2009, I joined Congressman Jim 
McGovern in offering an amendment to the National Defense Authorization 
Act. The amendment would have required the Secretary of Defense to 
submit a report to Congress which outlines an exit strategy for our 
Armed Forces in Afghanistan.

During the floor debate that day, I, along with other Members, talked 
about the history of Afghanistan and about the difficulties that other 
nations have had there--from Alexander the Great to England and Russia. 
As just one measure of the hazardous conditions facing our troops in 
Afghanistan, 99 American servicemembers have been killed in Afghanistan 
since June 25, 2009--the day we debated the amendment.

While I regret that the amendment was not approved, I still believe 
it is critical for the current administration to clearly articulate 
benchmarks for success and an end point to its war strategy in 
Afghanistan.

Last week, on September 1, 2009, conservative columnist George Will 
wrote an op-ed, titled ''Time to Get Out of Afghanistan.'' In it, he 
shares his insights on our Nation's current strategy in Afghanistan.

I submit the full text of this op-ed for the Record.








 [From the Washington Post, Sept. 1, 2009]











 Time to Get Out of Afghanistan














(By George F. Will)




 ''Yesterday,'' reads the e-mail from Allen, a Marine in 


 Afghanistan, ''I gave blood because a Marine, while out on 


 patrol, stepped on a [mine's] pressure plate and lost both 


 legs.'' Then ''another Marine with a bullet wound to the head 


 was brought in. Both Marines died this morning.''



 ''I'm sorry about the drama,'' writes Allen, an 


 enthusiastic infantryman willing to die ''so that each of you 


 may grow old.'' He says: ''I put everything in God's hands.'' 


 And: ''Semper Fi!''



 Allen and others of America's finest are also in 


 Washington's hands. This city should keep faith with them by 


 rapidly reversing the trajectory of America's involvement in 


 Afghanistan, where, says the Dutch commander of coalition 


 forces in a southern province, walking through the region is 


 ''like walking through the Old Testament.''



 U.S. strategy--protecting the population--is increasingly 


 troop-intensive while Americans are increasingly impatient 


 about ''deteriorating'' (says Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of 


 the Joint Chiefs of Staff) conditions. The war already is 


 nearly 50 percent longer than the combined U.S. involvements 


 in two world wars, and NATO assistance is reluctant and often 


 risible.



 The U.S. strategy is ''clear, hold and build.'' Clear? 


 Taliban forces can evaporate and then return, confident that 


 U.S. forces will forever be too few to hold gains. Hence 


 nation-building would be impossible even if we knew how, and 


 even if Afghanistan were not the second-worst place to try: 


 The Brookings Institution ranks Somalia as the only nation 


 with a weaker state.



 Military historian Max Hastings says Kabul controls only 


 about a third of the country--''control'' is an elastic 


 concept--and '' 'our' Afghans may prove no more viable than 


 were 'our' Vietnamese, the Saigon regime.'' Just 4,000 


 Marines are contesting control of Helmand province, which is 


 the size of West Virginia. The New York Times reports a 


 Helmand official saying he has only ''police officers who 


 steal and a small group of Afghan soldiers who say they are 


 here for 'vacation.' '' Afghanistan's $23 billion gross 


 domestic product is the size of Boise's. Counterinsurgency 


 doctrine teaches, not very helpfully, that development 


 depends on security, and that security depends on 


 development. Three-quarters of Afghanistan's poppy production 


 for opium comes from Helmand. In what should be called 


 Operation Sisyphus, U.S. officials are urging farmers to grow 


 other crops. Endive, perhaps?



 Even though violence exploded across Iraq after, and partly 


 because of, three elections, Afghanistan's recent elections 


 were called ''crucial.'' To what? They came, they went, they 


 altered no fundamentals, all of which militate against 


 American ''success,'' whatever that might mean. Creation of 


 an effective central government? Afghanistan has never had 


 one. U.S. Ambassador Karl Eikenberry hopes for a ''renewal of 


 trust'' of the Afghan people in the government, but the 


 Economist describes President Hamid Karzai's government--his 


 vice presidential running mate is a drug trafficker--as so 


 ''inept, corrupt and predatory'' that people sometimes yearn 


 for restoration of the warlords, ''who were less venal and 


 less brutal than Mr. Karzai's lot.''



 Mullen speaks of combating Afghanistan's ''culture of 


 poverty.'' But that took decades in just a few square miles 


 of the South Bronx. Gen. Stanley McChrystal, the U.S. 


 commander in Afghanistan, thinks jobs programs and local 


 government services might entice many ''accidental 


 guerrillas'' to leave the Taliban. But before launching New 


 Deal 2.0 in Afghanistan, the Obama administration should ask 


 itself: If U.S. forces are there to prevent reestablishment 


 of al-Qaeda bases--evidently there are none now--must there 


 be nation-building invasions of Somalia, Yemen and other 


 sovereignty vacuums?



 U.S. forces are being increased by 21,000, to 68,000, 


 bringing the coalition total to 110,000. About 9,000 are from 


 Britain, where support for the war is waning. 


 Counterinsurgency theory concerning the time and the ratio of 


 forces required to protect the population indicates that, 


 nationwide, Afghanistan would need hundreds of thousands of 


 coalition troops, perhaps for a decade or more. That is 


 inconceivable.



 So, instead, forces should be substantially reduced to 


 serve a comprehensively revised policy: America should do 


 only what can be done from offshore, using intelligence, 


 drones, cruise missiles, airstrikes and small, potent Special 


 Forces units, concentrating on the porous 1,500-mile border 


 with Pakistan, a nation that actually matters.



 Genius, said de Gaulle, recalling Bismarck's decision to 


 halt German forces short of Paris in 1870, sometimes consists 


 of knowing when to stop. Genius is not required to recognize 


 that in Afghanistan, when means now, before more American 


 valor, such as Allen's, is squandered.



I would like to highlight just a couple of Will's key points. He 
wrote, ''The war already is nearly 50 percent longer than the combined 
U.S. involvement in two world wars, and NATO assistance is reluctant.

''The U.S. strategy is 'clear, hold and build.' Clear? Taliban forces 
can evaporate and then return, confident that U.S. forces will forever 
be too few to


hold gains. Hence nation-building would be impossible even if we knew 
how, and even if Afghanistan were not the second-worst place to try.''

Will further states, ''Counterinsurgency theory concerning the time 
and the ratio of forces required to protect the population indicates 
that, nationwide, Afghanistan would need hundreds of thousands of 
coalition troops, perhaps for a decade or more. That is 
inconceivable.''

Madam Speaker, on this same morning this op-ed was published, the 
retired Marine general Chuck Krulak, the 31st commandant of the Marine 
Corps, responded by writing an e-mail to Will.

Madam Speaker, I submit the full text of the e-mail for the Record.

























September 1, 2009.


 Subject: Afghanistan



 Sir, I would imagine that your article, ''Time to Get Out 


 of Afghanistan'' will result in some ''incoming'' on your 


 Command Post. First and foremost, let me say that I am in 


 total agreement with your assessment. Simply put, no desired 


 end state has ever been clearly articulated and no strategy 


 formulated that would lead us to achieve even an ill defined 


 end state.



 A few points:



 1. The strategy of ''clear, hold and build'' would lead one 


 to believe that the US and its Allies are capable of 


 coordinating the elements of national power needed to affect 


 such a strategy. Nothing could be further from the truth. 


 Just getting DOS and DOD on the same page is difficult enough 


 . . . getting NGO's and nation building expertise into the 


 fight is simply a non-starter in a country as dysfunctional 


 as Afghanistan.



 2. Your point about troop strength required to ''protect'' 


 the population and carry out effective counterinsurgency 


 operations is spot on. Instead of a surge of 21,000 troops, 


 McChrystal would need a surge of hundreds of thousands. Not 


 only would our Nation not support such a surge but, MOST 


 distressing, the Military could not support such a surge. Not 


 only are our troops being run ragged but, equally important 


 and totally off most people's radar screens, our equipment is 


 being run ragged. At some point in time, the bill for that 


 equipment will come due and it will be a very large bill.



 3. Typical of the 21st Century fight, we are fighting ideas 


 as well as warriors. You cannot defeat ideas with bullets . . 


 . you must defeat them with better ideas. For many reasons 


 such as the dysfunction found in the Karzai government, the 


 tribal nature of the country, the abject poverty of the 


 average citizen, the inextricable link to Pakistan, we have 


 been unable to come up with better ideas. We are 


 systematically destroying the poppy fields . . . the 


 country's major source of revenue. At the same time, we are 


 trying to encourage other agricultural efforts. This is one 


 of our ''better ideas''?? Sad as it is to say, we would do 


 better to buy the poppy crop ourselves . . . ridding the 


 world of a source of drugs and maintaining the Afghan 


 economy.



 4. What in Afghanistan is deemed in our Nation's vital 


 interest? Seriously? Who is the enemy? Seriously? Is the 


 enemy of the United States the Taliban? Is the enemy al 


 Queda? We need to determine the answer to those questions 


 immediately. One would think we would have answered them 


 already but none of our actions to date would indicate that 


 we have.



 Finally, your recommendation is sound. I would put 


 ''hunter-killer teams'' along the borders and in suspected al 


 Queda strongholds. I would support them with intelligence, 


 logistics thru the use of parasail's, responsive airpower 


 (need to be close), armed and unarmed (fitted with cameras, 


 infrared, etc) drones, ''reach back'' capability for cruise 


 missiles, and other capability as needed. The H-K Teams 


 should be given minimal rules of engagement . . . when they 


 identify the bad guys, they need to be empowered to take them 


 out.



 Again, don't be dismayed by the people who disagree with 


 you. There are many retired and active duty military who feel 


 you hit the bull's eye.





 Semper Fidelis,

























 Chuck Krulak,
























General, USMC (Ret),















31st Commandant of the Marine Corps.


In the e-mail General Krulak expressed his ''total agreement'' with 
Will's assessment and concluded, ''There are many retired and active-
duty military who feel you hit the bull's eye.''

The general also wrote, ''Simply put, no desired end state has ever 
been as clearly articulated and no strategy formulated that would lead 
us to achieve even an ill-defined end state. Instead of a surge of 
21,000 troops, McChrystal would need a surge of hundreds of thousands. 
The military could not support such a surge. You cannot defeat ideas 
with bullets. You must defeat them with better ideas.''

Madam Speaker, President Obama is in the midst of reviewing a report 
by the U.S. commander in Afghanistan, General Stanley McChrystal. It is 
expected that this review will determine whether or not the President 
decides to alter the number of U.S. troops to Afghanistan.

The men and women of our military who have served in Iraq and 
Afghanistan have done a magnificent job. Many have been deployed four 
and five times. Their desire to serve is greater than ever, but the 
stress placed on our all-volunteer forces and their families cannot 
continue forever. That's why it is so important for the current 
administration to articulate an end point to its war strategy rather 
than simply ordering another surge of troops.

With that, Madam Speaker, I close by asking God to please bless our 
men and women in uniform. I ask God to please bless the families who 
have given a child dying for freedom in Afghanistan and Iraq.

And I close by asking God, please, God, please, God, please continue 
to bless America.
