---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `e4bcc2fa7ec51cdaf404d57addf46ba7`
`Mrs. McCARTHY of New York â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Mrs. McCARTHY of New York. Mr. Speaker, today, I will vote in favor 
of H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq 
Accountability Act of 2007 to fully fund our troops and end the war in 
Iraq.

This legislation will fully fund the troops serving in Iraq. It is 
imperative that they have the necessary equipment to conduct their 
mission as safely and swiftly as possible.

Today's vote marks a major shift in the strategy for Iraq by imposing 
real responsibility on the Iraqi government. President Bush outlined 
several benchmarks for the Iraqi government in his January 10 address. 
Unfortunately, there were no real consequences for the Iraqi government 
if these benchmarks were not met. Today's vote put real pressure on 
Prime Minister Maliki and the Iraqi government to meet these 
benchmarks. If the Iraqis do not step up and take control of their own 
security, U.S. forces will begin a phased redeployment as early as July 
1, 2007. All U.S. troops must begin their redeployment by March 1, 
2008, by which time, the Iraqis will have had ample opportunity to be 
trained and take control of their situation.

The U.S. cannot remain in Iraq indefinitely. During the past 4 years, 
the U.S. has suffered over 3,000 casualties and countless injuries 
attempting to curb the violence in Iraq. The time has come for the 
Iraqis to stand up and make a real investment in the security and 
future of their nation.

I will continue to support our troops and ensure they are trained and 
properly equipped for battle. But the course in Iraq must be changed, 
and that change has begun today.