---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e4e5fae63f1601f6cfd38136e6aa26c9`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Chair, I stand here and listen to this 
debate, and I am wondering what kind of message the Iraqi people are 
getting. I suspect they might have read this amendment. They might know 
that this amendment clearly says, and that is what is already in the 
record, that the United States has not established permanent military 
installations anywhere, and that nothing in this act or provision shall 
be construed to prevent us from establishing temporary military 
installations or bases in those agreements in the United States or Iraq 
or anywhere.

This amendment addresses temporary basing rights, not permanent 
basing rights. It is a clarification amendment, because we have had so 
much confusion and miscommunication. Now we have more confusion and 
miscommunication; and I would direct the attention, if I could, of the 
Members of this body back to the language that started this, which was 
the language that was amended out of the bill last year that says that 
none of the funds made available in this act may be used by the 
Government of the United States to enter into a basing rights agreement 
between the United States and Iraq.



That reference prohibited any basing rights agreement, temporary and 
permanent. We had to go to the Pentagon to get support, which the 
administration is the voice of, in order to clarify this language last 
year, this amendment's clarifying language this year. It's a simple 
thing. It says we can enter into temporary basing rights agreements 
wherever it's prudent for us to do so, not permanent basing rights 
agreement in Iraq or anywhere else.

Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.