# NATIONAL CHARACTER COUNTS WEEK
## `e4eac691940f55f9e630cdf6274c0b99`
`Mr. BIDEN — 27 September 2008`

---

 Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I rise in support of a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate that the week including Veterans 
Day--November 9-15, 2008--be designated as ''National Veterans 
Awareness Week.'' This marks the ninth year I have introduced such as 
resolution, which has been adopted unanimously by the Senate on all 
previous occasions, and has been recognized by the President as an 
important objective. With our military men and women continuing to be 
on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan, it is no doubt appropriate 
that we recognize and honor the service and sacrifice of those who are 
currently serving to protect our freedom, as well as those who have 
served in the past.

The idea behind National Veterans Awareness Week actually came from a 
Delaware student, Samuel I. Cashdollar. In 2000, as a 13-year-old 
seventh grader at Lewes Middle School, Samuel won the Delaware VFW's 
Youth Essay Contest with a powerful presentation titled ''How Should We 
honor America's Veterans?'' Samuel's essay pointed out that we have 
Nurses' Week, Secretaries' Week, and Teachers' Week to rightly 
emphasize the importance of these occupations, but no comparable week 
to encourage, and honor, service in the military. That is why, every 
year since 2000, I have introduced a resolution designating National 
Veterans Awareness Week to focus on educating our youth on the 
contributions, heroism, and service of our veterans.

The reality is, during both World Wars and the Korean and Vietnam 
conflicts, families were more likely to have a relative serving in the 
military. That is not the case today; tremendous advances in military 
technology, an all-volunteer force, and increases in productivity have 
greatly reduced the number of families with relatives who are active 
servicemembers or recent veteran. Coupled with the fact that the number 
of veterans who served in major conflicts like World War II is 
declining, it is more important than ever that we take the time to make 
sure students comprehend and appreciate the service and sacrifice of 
our veterans. National Veterans Awareness Week provides us with an 
opportunity to do just that. Additionally, with soldiers returning from 
the front lines with service-connected injuries, National Veterans 
Awareness Week reminds us how important it is that we keep our promise 
to veterans by providing them with the proper support and services they 
need once they return home. This promise is the most sacred obligation 
we have, and it is imperative that our children are also aware of the 
debt we owe our veterans.

In closing, let me add that, although many of us will not have the 
opportunity to serve our country in uniform, we must not forget our 
responsibility as citizens to fulfill the obligations we owe, both 
tangible and intangible, to those who have served and sacrificed on our 
behalf. By passing along this shared responsibility and recognition to 
future generations, our children, grandchildren, and great-
grandchildren will continue to appreciate and honor what our veterans 
have accomplished in order to appropriately confront the many 
challenges they are sure to encounter.












 National Character Counts Week
