---
---

# MORNING BUSINESS
## `e502b1e6d4296c7a52c380b6d612a90e`
`Mr. VITTER — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. VITTER. Mr. President, I, too, rise today on the Senate floor to 
discuss the very serious issue of Iraq and how we move forward there to 
eventually get our troops home. I have been in the Senate 2 years. 
Before that, I was in the House for 5 years. That is a relatively short 
amount of time, but I daresay I believe, as do many of my colleagues 
who have been here 20 or 30 years, this truly is one of the most 
important issues we will ever debate and have an impact on. In fact, 
even for a career that long, it may be the single most important issue 
we will debate and have an impact on.

I hope all of us take that to heart. Don't say it as a truism but 
understand what that means and what it demands of us. What it demands 
of us is that we act responsibly and whatever our feelings and point of 
view, we put them forward in a responsible way for the good of America.

What do I mean by that? I primarily mean two things. First of all, 
each of us as Senators has the right to oppose a plan, including the 
President's plan. I will be the first to say that. I will be the first 
to defend my colleagues' right to oppose any plan, including the 
President's plan. But along with that right comes responsibility, and 
each of us also has a responsibility to be for a plan to move forward 
in Iraq. It does not need to be the President's plan, but we sure as 
heck have a responsibility to be for some coherent plan, in some level 
of detail. How do we move forward in Iraq for the good of the country, 
for our security, and for stability in the Middle East?

Second, what being responsible means is taking to the Senate floor to 
impact policy, to take action but not simply to offer words that have 
no impact in the real world but only serve to undercut the morale and 
focus of our troops and to embolden the enemy. Some resolutions, which 
are mere words--they don't constrain any activity of the President or 
of our troops--I think have that unintended result. They do not limit 
troops, they do not limit troop numbers, but they sure as heck destroy 
morale. They certainly embolden the enemy. Don't believe me about that 
judgment. Turn to very respected military leaders, including GEN David 
Petraeus, who said that directly, frankly, in his testimony before 
Senate committees.

I have been guided by that responsibility, to face the issues 
squarely, to be responsible, to be for some plan--not necessarily the 
President's but some real, detailed plan; to take action on the Senate 
floor and not float words which can have negative consequences for our 
troops and also embolden the enemy.

After a lot of thought and in that context and after a lot of careful 
study, including many hearings before the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee on which I sit, I have decided to support the President's 
plan as a reasonable attempt to move forward--indeed, as a final 
attempt to stabilize the situation. But I have also decided to do it in 
the context of three very strong recommendations which I have made many 
times directly to the President and to other key advisers, such as 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, such as the President's National 
Security Adviser, Steve Hadley, and others. Those three strong, clear 
recommendations are as follows:

No. 1, I do believe, with the Iraq Study Group and others, we need to 
put even more emphasis on a diplomatic effort and, in my opinion, that 
should be to encourage and embrace and participate in a regional 
diplomatic conference that involves all of Iraq's neighbors, including 
Iran and Syria. This would be very different from direct bilateral 
talks with either Iran or Syria. With regard to that push, I disagree 
with that, including, to some extent, the Iraq Study Group. But I do 
think a regional conference focussed specifically and exclusively on 
stabilizing Iraq, promoting democracy in Iraq, would be very positive.

No. 2, I agree with many that we can be even stronger, clearer, 
firmer about benchmarks for the Iraqi Government and consequences if 
the Iraqi Government does not meet those benchmarks. President Bush has 
talked a lot about what are clear benchmarks, but I have encouraged him 
to go even further, be even more direct and clear, including in public, 
about those benchmarks. Those would be things such as the Iraqis 
continuing to take clear, strong action against all who promote 
violence, whether they are Sunni or Shia or anyone else; things such as 
an oil revenue law that must be passed in the very near term; things 
such as major reform of the debaathification process, which has stirred 
up enormous sectarian conflict and hatred, particularly from the Shia 
and Sunnis.

Third, I have been very clear in saying over and over and over that 
we must constantly reexamine these new troop numbers to make sure they 
can have a meaningful impact on the ground in the short term. I am for 
trying this as a final attempt, but I am not for throwing too little 
too late at the effort.

I respect the judgment of military leaders such as GEN David 
Petraeus. I take them at their word, and I respect their judgment that 
this additional 21,500, coupled with redeployment and reemphasis of 
troops already in theater, is enough, but I think we have to constantly 
examine that to make sure we don't make the mistake we have made in the 
past, which is underestimating troop need.

There has been a lot of discussion about the Iraq Study Group report, 
for good reason. A lot of leading citizens contributed very thoughtful 
analysis to that report. But I think far too much of that discussion 
has unfairly portrayed the President's plan and different versions of 
it, like what I am talking about, as in stark contrast to the Iraq 
Study Group report. In fact, I don't believe that to be the case at 
all. It is not exactly the Iraq Study Group report. It is different, 
but it has enormous areas of overlap.

With regard to political solutions that have to happen lead by Iraqis 
on the ground in Iraq, there is enormous agreement between what I am 
supporting, what the President is describing, and the Iraq Study Group 
report. With regard to a diplomatic initiative, there is enormous 
overlap between what I am pushing in terms of a regional diplomatic 
conference involving all of Iraq's neighbors and what the Iraq Study 
Group discusses. Yes, they seem to favor direct bilateral talks with 
countries such as Iran and Syria. I do not and the President does not. 
But there is still enormous overlap and agreement on things we can do 
very proactively and aggressively on the diplomatic front.

Even on the military component there is great overlap and significant 
agreement. In that regard I would simply point to one very important 
passage on page 73 which states clearly, discussing military troop 
levels and numbers:




 We could, however, support a short-term redeployment or 


 surge of American combat forces to stabilize Baghdad or to 


 speed up the training and equipping mission if the U.S.




 commander in Iraq determines that such steps would be 


 effective.


Well, of course, the new U.S. commander of Iraq is GEN David 
Petraeus, and he has suggested and asked for exactly that, which is why 
it is significant in the President's plan.

So I urge all of my colleagues to give this issue serious thought, to 
be responsible, to advocate whatever is in their heart and in their 
mind but to do it responsibly. Support some plan, and do not throw out 
mere words that have no concrete effect except undermining our troops 
and emboldening the enemy.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.