# HONORING BRANDON THORSEN OF TRENTON, FLORIDA
## `e5060547e2e39532b93ad526514182bc`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 4 October 2007`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to 
honor an American soldier who gave his life in service to our Nation.

Army PFC Brandon T. Thorsen of Trenton, Florida, was killed by a 
gunshot while serving on guard duty in Baghdad, Iraq. Private First 
Class Thorsen is survived by his mother Susan Hostutler of New York, 
father Donald Thorsen of Trenton, Florida, sisters Sharony Sheldon of 
Spring Hill, Florida, and Amber Gay of Trenton, Florida, brother Dereck 
Hardyman of Gainesville, Florida, and his fiancee, Chana Gilbert of 
Newberry, Florida.

Growing up in Levy County, Brandon attended Chiefland High School, 
where he was remembered as an outgoing and charming young man with a 
great sense of humor. A defensive lineman and left tackle on the 
football team, Brandon played an important role in the team's success 
during the 2003 season. A lover of the outdoors, hunting and fishing, 
Brandon had plans to join the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation 
Commission as a game warden following his 4-year commitment to the 
Army.

Graduating Chiefland High School in 2005, Brandon fulfilled his 
ambition to serve the United States military when he was assigned to 
the 1st Cavalry 2nd Battalion following his enlistment. Inspired by the 
events of September 11, Brandon completed basic training at Ft. Benning 
in Georgia, and then went to Ft. Bliss in Texas for his combat infantry 
training prior to his service in Baghdad that began in November 2006.

Madam Speaker, it is soldiers like PFC Brandon Thorsen who have 
volunteered to protect the freedoms that all Americans hold dear. While 
brave men and women like Brandon have perished in the name of freedom 
and liberty, his family, friends and loved ones should know that this 
Congress will never forget his sacrifice and commitment.
