# SUNSET MEMORIAL
## `e50da65c215715ed683b24f5f87a19e4`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 22 January 2009`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Arizona. It is an honor 
to stand here. And I reflect upon the time that Bob Hope and Sammy 
Davis, Jr., and others were on Johnny Carson's program. George Gobel 
was sitting there, and he looked around at the famous folks that were 
on either side of him, and he had this look of discomfort on his face. 
And finally he uttered: Did you ever think that the whole world was a 
tuxedo and you were a pair of brown shoes?


Well, I am the brown shoes here on this floor today. As I listened to 
Mr. Franks and Mr. Pence, Mike Pence who inspired me through the lens 
of the C-SPAN camera well before I came to this Congress, and Trent 
Franks who has continued to inspire me on a daily basis since I did 
arrive in this Congress with him in January of 2003.

We are here today, and it is a great privilege, Mr. Speaker, to 
address you and continue with the subject, and that is, let me say, the 
capping of some of the contemporary dialogue on the history of the 
Presidency of George W. Bush and the things that he has done and 
contributed.

Now some have said and called for a long period of honeymoon in this 
new administration because that's what we do in a free country. Well, 
it is what we should do in a free country, respect for the office, 
reverence, the sense of a new beginning. However, that is not something 
that George W. Bush ever experienced, was not one minute of a 
honeymoon.

From the moment that the polls closed on election night, the churning 
began. And in the morning it carried on for 37 days while we sorted 
out, through a recount process and a Supreme Court, both the Florida 
Supreme Court and the United States Supreme Court came forth with 
rulings from all of those days that unfolded, 37 days, President Bush 
has been under attack from the left, that developed a visceral hatred 
for him that I could never connect with any rational thought process. I 
just couldn't track the logic. So that has been an anchor that he has 
had to drag and deal with. That was, I think, the hyenas that were 
referenced by Mr. Franks, how this lion walked among them.

I am here to say thank you to President Bush for the things that he 
has done when he has had his steady hand on the till of leadership, and 
especially with our national defense.

I wasn't here in this town on September 11, 2001. I came the next 
Congress, not that one. I was here for the beginnings of the 
liberations of Iraq. I was here for more completion of the buildup in 
Afghanistan. I have made six trips to Iraq and two to Afghanistan. I 
have engaged myself in our foreign policy as much as I can possibly do 
so. I have looked at the 50 million people between Iraq and Afghanistan 
that breathe free today that had not breathed free before and would 
unlikely have ever breathed free if it had not been for the solid, 
bold, courageous leadership on the part of President Bush, our 
Commander in Chief, who said our enemies will hear from us soon, and 
they did.

I know there were Iowa guard troops on the ground in Afghanistan, as 
well as many others, who guarded the polling places and guarded the 
pathways to the polling places in a land on real estate that had never 
seen an election before. Today, they have a government that is elected 
of, by, and for the people, controlled by the people. It is a long 
pathway to see Afghanistan where we would like to see it. But, Mr. 
Speaker, it is positioned today in such a fashion that we can see some 
light at the end of that tunnel and we can define the people in 
Afghanistan as free and in control of their own destiny, however 
precarious it might be with the enemies from without who are 
infiltrating within.



We need to continue to face those enemies with the vigor and the 
courage and the patriotism and the nobility that our military from 
Commander in Chief on down have done so each and every day since the 
beginning of the operations in Afghanistan.

In Iraq, Mr. Speaker, I'm going to make this statement. This 
statement is a general thank you to our Commander in Chief who issued 
the order to liberate Iraq and sent troops in March 19, 2003, and that 
is, Mr. President, I have looked at the metrics in Iraq and I have 
examined the statistics that come from there.



I have evaluated the benchmarks that were imposed upon the President, 
Mr. Speaker--and with regard to the President, whom I hope catches this 
message--that the 18 benchmarks that were imposed upon the President--
and he had to essentially sign the bill in order to maintain the 
funding to continue the operations--those 18 benchmarks, Mr. Speaker, 
16 of them are all completely or substantially achieved.

The 17th benchmark is provincial elections, which are scheduled for--
and we have no reason to believe they won't come off like the two 
previous elections in Iraq and the ratification of the constitution in 
Iraq--that date is January 31, just a few days from now. When that date 
is achieved, we will be able to say, analytically and objectively, 17 
of the 18 benchmarks set by this Congress have been all completely or 
substantially achieved. The remaining benchmark is one that couldn't be 
possibly achieved in the time frame that we have had, and that is the 
one that sets up the Iraqi Security Forces to be completely independent 
from U.S. coalition support. That means no communications, no intel, no 
logistics, and no munition support coming from the United States other 
than that that they would write a check for and buy from us on the 
marketplace or the world. That's not something that you can do in a day 
or week or month or a year, Mr. Speaker; it's something that takes 
years to stand up a military that has that capability.

There are 609,000 Iraqis today in uniform stood up defending the 
security in that country, and they've done so in such a fashion that 
sectarian deaths in Iraq that were so serious that they numbered on a 
monthly basis more than 2,000 in a single month--and I take you back to 
about December of 2006, I believe that number was about 2,300 sectarian 
deaths--and as the surge began and unfolded, those sectarian deaths 
wound down to the point where there was a point last May where they 
actually were so low that they were statistically insignificant. Today, 
the sectarian deaths have been reduced by at least 90 percent.

Mr. Speaker, American deaths in Iraq. If you have a son or a daughter 
that is serving in Iraq today or are concerned about their safety--and 
this gives no solace to the people who have lost family members there, 
that solace we offer to them in our prayers--but statistically, as we 
have troops that are deployed to Iraq, they have been, since the first 
day of July of last year, at greater danger of being killed in an 
accident than by the enemy. That has held up from the first day of July 
on, it stands today, and I pray it will stand for a long time. And I 
would like to see those numbers of course get to zero. But whenever you 
have men and women and machines moving, there are accidents. We lose an 
average of 510 Americans a year on-duty deaths, 510. That's in greater 
numbers now than the incidents of death in Iraq due to the enemy.

So we have made a lot of progress in the country. The Iraqis are 
governing much of their own country. The provinces that they have taken 
over the security have been significant. And additionally, we have 
handed over the security of the Green Zone to the Iraqis on the first 
day of January, and it hardly made the news.

Mr. Speaker, we have won the war in Iraq. George Bush's courage did 
that, the decision he made did that. When he got advice from his Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, the advice, which was, ''we can achieve this victory, 
Mr. President; the advice that we have is let's redeploy from there.'' 
And the political advice was, ''declare victory and retreat from 
Iraq.'' That was the echo of the incessant advice that came from the 
political advisors. And the military advisors didn't say ''declare 
victory,'' they just simply said, ''let's deploy out of there, we can't 
win this war.''

President Bush looked for a way. And I sat in the Oval Office when he 
pointed at the picture of Abraham Lincoln and he said, Abraham Lincoln 
went through seven generals before he found his general. I've not been 
there yet, I think I've found my general, General Petraeus. The 
leadership that it took to have the courage to declare for victory in 
the face of all the advice for defeat echoes in me on this day with the 
leadership that it took for Abraham Lincoln, when every member of his 
cabinet, when called together to ask for their advice on whether to 
sign the Emancipation Proclamation, every member of the Cabinet said, 
Mr. President, no. Don't sign it because you don't rule over the 
slaves. You can't free the slaves because we don't occupy the south. 
They do. They will decide whether or not the slaves are free and 
they're not going to be released.

Mr. President, the next Cabinet member said, we have people fighting 
for the Union that don't care about slavery. You're sending a message 
that they won't like. So don't sign the Emancipation Proclamation. I 
could go on with a series of reasons or excuses, but in the end, after 
every Cabinet member said to Abraham Lincoln, don't sign the 
Emancipation Proclamation, President Lincoln said, ''Well, gentlemen, 
the I has it,'' and he signed the Emancipation Proclamation. And today, 
we give great honor to the liberation of the people who were created in 
God's image, all of them, those born and those not yet born, because 
Abraham Lincoln understood the sanctity of human life.

President Bush made a similar decision when he said we are going to 
declare for victory in Iraq and we are going to go forth with a surge. 
It took that same kind of courage in the face of advice to the 
contrary, and today we see Iraqis milling the streets in relative 
freedom, building their country together. And it is a country that I 
couldn't even go to a place like Ramadi or Fallujah a year and a half 
ago because it was too dangerous, even with security. But I've been 
back to those places and walked the streets of each of those towns and 
heard the Mayor of Fallujah declare, ''We are a city of peace.''

There is a victory achieved in Iraq, and it's a victory that George 
W. Bush deserves credit for. And this is also a man with a profound 
moral understanding of when his life began, at the instant of 
conception. And he has faced this issue with a number of big decisions 
in the Oval Office, decisions that had to do with the executive order 
that supports the Mexico City policy that forbids U.S. taxpayer dollars 
from being extorted from our pro-life citizens--of which I am one--to 
fund abortion services in foreign countries. That's an executive order 
that's balanced precariously perhaps on the desk of President Obama 
today. This man who called out for unity may not be doing so if he 
signs that executive order.

President Bush supports the Mexico City policy. It has protected 
millions of lives around the world and has protected the conscience of 
American taxpayers. President Bush burned many hours examining the 
embryonic stem cell research and finally decided the existing lines 
would be allowed to be utilized, but there would be no new lines that 
would interrupt innocent human lives with U.S. taxpayer dollars. It was 
a difficult and careful decision that he made. It has protected the 
lives of many little embryos. And I have held some of those snowflake 
babies in my arms--yes, they are people, they're warm, they're bubbly, 
they giggle, they laugh, they love just like the rest of us, having 
been frozen for 9 years as an embryo. President Bush understood that. 
There is a real humanity in this man. This is a pro-life President.

And right now, I can tell you that he's our last pro-life President 
so far, the most recent pro-life President. This is the man who 
appointed Justices Roberts and Alito, which resulted in justices that 
understand the text and the original understanding of the Constitution, 
who ruled to uphold the ban on partial birth abortion which has saved 
lives in America, and it is one legislative victory that we have here.



And this is the 36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade. It is a profound 
time. So I want to say, in conclusion, Mr. Speaker, I want the message 
to be echoed to President Bush, thank you for the people in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, that they can go to the polls and vote and breathe free 
air and direct their national destiny and become our allies in this 
quest for freedom, the right of every man and every woman and every 
person to be free, the right to life that every man and every person 
has. And I ask, Mr. Speaker, that the President also be thanked for his 
stance for life and freedom.

I yield back to the gentleman from Arizona and thank him for his 
indulgence.