---
---

# PROGRESS IN IRAQ
## `e50e72c70f34e8926094597a9b4c945f`
`Mr. KYL — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I say to my colleague there are going to be 
efforts apparently to hold this war funding hostage to other funding 
requests. For example, one of our colleagues said we are going to look 
at the supplemental not only for the $190 billion for the war--by the 
way, that figure is incorrect; it is $102 billion--but also what we can 
do on this bill for summer jobs programs.

I submit it is important to fund the troops because we have sent them 
on a mission. They volunteered, and they deserve our support. We should 
not threaten to withhold that support unless there is also funding for 
other programs that have a far lower priority than the security of our 
troops and the security of the United States.

I will also add one other point. In reading from what General 
Petraeus said yesterday and focusing right down on the American people, 
it is clearly in our national interest, he said, to help Iraq prevent 
the resurgence of al-Qaida in the heart of the Arab world. Both he and 
Ambassador Crocker said it is worth it to the United States that the 
success there is making us safer here at home. That is what it all gets 
back to, when folks say we need to have supplemental funding on other 
programs. This is making us safer at home.

I will conclude. I want my colleague from Connecticut to comment for 
a moment, and the Senator from Tennessee also wanted a couple minutes 
at the end of our time. I assured him we would have a of couple 
minutes. We may have to ask for an extra minute or so.