# EFFECTS OF TROOP DEPLOYMENTS
## `e5108eb179d149497e416437667a3673`
`Mr. SESTAK — 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Thank you very much. I may be the one slowing us down 
tonight because I'm 50-something in a 30-something group.

This is wonderful. If I might speak, I'm really honored to be asked 
to say a few words on the last day of the Month of the Military Child.

In the Pentagon, across from the Secretary of Defense's office is the 
best painting in all of the Pentagon. It's of a young servicemember 
kneeling in church. And next to him is his young spouse and his young 
child. And under it is that wonderful saying from the book of Isaiah 
where God turns to Isaiah and says, Who shall I send? Who will go for 
us? And Isaiah replies, here am I. Send me.

But really, what that picture depicts is the family that actually is 
saying, here we are, send us.

I got to know, joining up in 1970 and on, a lot of those families. We 
don't have, in the military, a human resource department where you 
outsource problems or challenges. So you sit with them when they're in 
debt and help to balance their checkbook, or you sit there with them 
trying to make sure that they get the proper care in the hospital. You 
get to know the families very well.

And you get to know them in another way during long deployments. Back 
then, in those early 1970 days, you'd sit there as a young man came up 
after leaving port and receiving a letter, or getting a letter at sea 
from another ship as it passes from ship to ship, from his wife that 
says, Johnny's okay after the operation. But he didn't know about the 
operation. Maybe in the next port of call, 30 days later, the letter 
would come in that said, want you to know Johnny had a broken leg. It's 
okay. He'll have an operation next week.

Or go ahead 3/1/2/ decades or so, and how I could sit there and, with 
technology, record over the Internet and read each evening to my 
daughter, who was, during this, while gone from her for about a year, 
during the war and would be able to read to her a book so that she'd go 
up to the TV and just kiss it. Even today, 7 years later she goes up to 
the TV if I'm on and kisses it.

I bring those up because I think what people in the military learn is 
that when authority or responsibility passes, and you come home, that 
what's really left is the infinite tenderness and caring of a loving 
family.

And yet, we also recognize in the military, in words that were more 
reflective of its time, three, 3/1/2/ decades ago, that on the 
commissary bag, shopping bags of each of the military or the Navy 
complexes would be a saying, ''Navy wife, toughest job in the Navy.''

Or as 70 years ago, the wife of a Chief of Naval Operations said in a 
poem, a Navy wife remembers. When crying seems likely, just laugh it 
away.

I bring those up because what sets our military apart from our 
professions, as someone once said, is it has the dignity of danger. And 
the character that our men and women who serve in the military show and 
triumph which didn't begin in theories. It really begins in those 
places from whence we come and the people who made us who we are, not 
just our communities, but in particular our families.

And I bring that up because today as was brought out here, is every 
war is different. World War II, our veterans, on average, had about 182 
days of combat. Horrific combat. Battles like Normandy or Guadalcanal. 
But there was some dwell time in between those battles, time for your 
physical nerves to adjust, which has a major impact upon your mental 
state, and time for your mental state to readjust.

In Iraq, however, our soldiers go outside the wire every day for 15 
months, into a combat-like situation, and then they come home for 12 
and go back again. And then come back to families where 19 percent of 
them face Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, 33 percent have a mental 
challenge from depression to anxiety.

So as our families say, here we are, send us, it's never been more 
vital than now to recognize that if this Nation still wants its 
families to say here we are, send us, we, more than ever before, I 
believe, owe it to our veterans to take care of them and their families 
in the ways that have been laid out much better than I could have by my 
colleagues. So thank you for speaking tonight.

It's a wonderful brotherhood and sisterhood I lived in for many years 
that finds the grandest sepulchre of all, a home in the hearts of brave 
men and women. But again, when all that passes out there, what's left 
is that family. And whatever we can do for them, from now and forever, 
is the most arduous responsibility I believe Congress, in this time of 
war can be charged with.