---
---

# PRESCRIPTION DRUG USER FEE AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `e5236f02a8fed45020df5c1c80bf767f`
`Mr. BYRD — 3 May 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, President Bush marked the fourth 
anniversary of his announcement that major combat operations in Iraq 
have ended by vetoing war funding legislation because he claimed it 
limited his ability to prosecute a war unconditionally and 
indefinitely. Our Armed Forces are now well into their fifth year of 
combat operations--longer than the U.S. was involved in World War II--
and the time is overdue to examine and update U.S. policy in Iraq.

The legislation, which President Bush vetoed, would have set a 
responsible, new course for the war that was a balanced and fair 
proposal that I was pleased to support. Sadly, the President continues 
to believe peace and stability can be forced on the Iraqi people at the 
point of a gun. He was wrong in 2002 when he sought authorization to go 
to war, and he is wrong today.

However, now that the President has insisted on continuing down this 
failed path, it is our responsibility to discuss alternatives that can 
become law. The Congress is not an ATM, spitting out billions whenever 
the President requests it. It is a policy arm of the Government, as 
well as its banker. The Constitution says the Congress shall have power 
to provide for the common defense. It is the Congress--yes, it is the 
Congress--that is given the sole power to declare war. The Congress is 
sworn to raise and support armies. The Congress and the people of the 
United States have a right to expect clarity in our mission and a 
foreseeable end to this conflict.

The situation in Iraq, in 2007, is very different from what it was in 
2002, when the Congress authorized the use of military force in Iraq. 
The President himself said this:




 This is not the war we entered in Iraq, but it is the war 


 we are in.


It is time to rethink, reset our goals, and consider a new 
authorization which outlines the mission as the President now sees it. 
The October 11, 2002, authorization for the President to use force in 
Iraq was very specific. After expressing support for diplomatic efforts 
to resolve the causes of conflict with Iraq, the authorization allowed 
the use of force for two purposes. The first was to defend the national 
security of the United States against the continuing threat posed by 
Iraq. The second reason was to enforce all relevant United Nations 
Security Council resolutions against Iraq.

In 2002, and early 2003, President Bush made his case to Congress and 
to the American people for the invasion of Iraq. His stated goals 
included the elimination of the weapons of mass destruction programs 
that Iraq was thought to possess, and the overthrow of Saddam Hussein's 
regime. By that yardstick, the U.S. military has achieved brilliant 
success. No weapons of mass destruction were found in Iraq--not just 
weapons that could threaten the national security of the United States 
but also no weapons of mass destruction of any description. Saddam 
Hussein and his Government are gone. The Iraqi people have elected a 
new government. The U.S. military has achieved success in Iraq, and 
that success has come at a high price, both in dollars and in 
lives. Thus far, over 3,350 American men and women have been killed, 
and many more have been wounded. Including the funding in the emergency 
supplemental vetoed by the President, over $450 billion has been 
provided by Congress to execute this war.


The October 11, 2002, authorization to use force has run its course. 
It is time--past time--to decommission this authorization and retire it 
to the archives. If the President has more that he wants to do in Iraq, 
then he needs to make that case to Congress and to the American public. 
Our continuing presence in Iraq is not supported by the people or the 
Congress. The President must redefine the goals and submit his plan to 
achieve them to a thorough and open debate in the Congress and 
throughout the country. That is the American way. Success will elude us 
without the support of the people whose sons and daughters are being 
asked to die daily in the sands--yes, the sands--of Iraq.

I propose October 11, 2007, as the expiration date for the 2002 
authorization and that the President seek a new authorization from the 
elected representatives of the people in Congress. The President must 
be clear about what he now hopes to accomplish in Iraq and how he 
intends to achieve it. President Bush must build support for his plan. 
Without the support of the public and the Congress, we should no longer 
be in this fight. It is now an Iraqi fight for national reconciliation, 
not a war to ensure U.S. national security. If the President sees a 
further role for U.S. troops, he should articulate it and seek 
consensus for a changed mission. I hope my colleagues on both sides of 
this important debate and on both sides of the aisle can agree that the 
2002 authorization has run its course. It is no longer viable, and it 
should be set aside.

What I propose does not mandate redeployment on any date certain. It 
simply calls on the President to make the case for the new situation in 
which we find ourselves. My proposal does not set limits on troop 
levels, nor prevent them from doing what is necessary to protect 
themselves and U.S. personnel. It also does not prevent us from 
pursuing terrorists who may have set their sights on the United States. 
What it does is stop our troops from fighting endlessly in an Iraqi 
civil war after October 11, 2007, unless the President--our President--
receives a mandate from the American public and the U.S. Congress.

Let us try to give the President a chance to refocus his vision on 
the changed circumstances in Iraq, free


from the shackles of a shamelessly outdated grant of authority. I 
deplore the political gamesmanship which has polarized our Nation. I 
regret the harsh partisanship which rages while our brave troops fight 
and die.

A fresh start could help to change the dynamic in this country. A 
concerted effort by the White House to reassess its goals and 
opportunities in Iraq could point a path to progress. A new debate in 
Congress could resolve confusion and contention about continuing a 
strategy for Iraq that no longer addresses the exigencies of today. We 
need a new mission which makes clear the changed role of our troops. We 
need a diplomatic component to the plan which might encourage the 
national reconciliation so badly needed to quell the violence in Iraq. 
We need a plan to reach out to other countries in the area which share 
our interest in seeking stability in Iraq. But first we need to clear 
the cobwebs and the confusion caused by a grant of authority that no 
longer has any relevance to the present conditions of Iraq.

I ask other Senators to consider my proposal, whether this proposal 
is considered on the supplemental, on the Defense authorization bill, 
or on the Defense appropriations bill. I ask cooler heads to see the 
possibilities of beginning a new assessment of where we are and where 
we are going. I ask for a cease-fire in the political war in Washington 
for the sake of our troops and for the sake of our country.

Madam President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.