---
---

# EFFECTS OF TROOP DEPLOYMENTS
## `e52404d26f39078f915bf8b5ec9bb876`
`Mr. SPACE — 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. SPACE. I thank the gentlewoman from Florida for taking the lead 
on this initiative.

In assessing the cost of war, all too often we resort to cold, hard 
numbers. And we return to things like the financial cost of this war, 
how much is it costing this Nation or how many lives have we lost. 
Those are important considerations, obviously; but in assessing the 
cost of this war, I think it is important that we as a body, as an 
institution, point out that there are other costs. For example, the 
loss of international goodwill, the cost of veterans' care is a part of 
the cost of war, and what we are talking about tonight, the strain and 
the effect that the war has had on families.

As I see it, there are a lot of different ways to measure that. The 
most immediate and obvious is the trauma of deployment. Many families 
in this country today are uneasy as we speak, praying and worrying 
about their loved ones who are in a strange and foreign land subjected 
to hostile conditions.

The financial strain on these families is enormous. The marital 
strain is significant. The cost to a child who doesn't even know their 
parent, it affects entire families.

I, too, have a loved one serving now in his second tour of duty in 
Iraq. Zack


Space is his name as well, my cousin. I had the pleasure of spending 
some time with his folks Sunday in Ohio for Greek Orthodox Easter. We 
gathered as a family very mindful of little Zack's absence, and prayed 
for him. To see the concern and worry in his mother's eyes is moving 
and very visceral.

A second way of evaluating the cost and strain that this war has had 
on families is to look at the loss that those families have occasioned. 
We have heard some testimony today from some very able folks talking 
about the realities of war and those who are returning from war, the 
suicide rates, homelessness, drug and alcohol addiction, even the 
breakdown of the traditional family unit. They are all affected by the 
rigors of war.

And many of these attributes are due to post-traumatic disorder or 
traumatic brain injury that my colleagues have talked about today, 
lifelong conditions that will forever plague these families.

I would like to talk if I could for a moment about a couple of folks 
back home and some others that have had a really profound effect on me 
and my impressions of this war. One of them is Army Corporal Keith 
Nepsa, who at the age of 22 years was killed in June of 2007 from 
wounds sustained when an IED detonated near his vehicle in Iraq. Keith 
was from New Philadelphia, Ohio, in Tuscarawas County, and I know his 
father. I went to his funeral and again saw the look in their eyes as 
they laid their son to rest. They will forever be plagued by this war. 
Their lives will never be the same.

Another young man from my region, Marine Gunnery Sergeant Joshua Heck 
who was grievously injured on the battlefield last year, and I went to 
visit him in Walter Reed not long after his return to the States, a 
return of a shattered man who had lost limbs, suffering from post-
traumatic stress disorder, and doomed to a life much different than 
that which he took with him to Iraq.

I had the pleasure of meeting his wife, Brooke, and his mother who 
were at his side at Walter Reed bearing much of this burden. As a side 
note, Joshua, in his hospital bed when I went to visit him, it was at a 
time when we were debating the course of action that this Congress 
should take on the war. I asked him what he thought we should do. 
Having been there, I felt he was qualified to make that assessment and 
I welcomed his input.

When I asked him that question his response was: Sir, that's not for 
me to say. You tell me to fight, I fight. I'm a soldier. You tell me to 
stop and I stop.

And despite his broken body, his love for this country remained as 
strong as ever. I found it very moving and touching.

Under the leadership of Chairman Filner, our Veterans' Affairs 
Committee earlier this year held an Oversight and Investigations 
Subcommittee hearing on the care of the seriously injured after 
inpatient care. And at this hearing we received testimony from Sarah 
Wade, not of my district, but who came to testify on behalf of her 
husband, Sergeant Ted Wade, who had sustained traumatic brain injury.



And Sarah has been left with a completely different life than that 
which she had before her husband went off to war. He, and she, and 
their family, will forever be plagued by these injuries.

When young men and women are killed in this war, or come back 
grievously wounded, it's not just the soldier that suffers, it's their 
family. And it's not just the family that suffers, it's their 
community. Their communities grieve.

I'm blessed with a special district. Ohio's 18 district is one 
wonderful small town after another. The largest city I have in my 
district has about 25,000 people. And there are a lot of great things 
about living in a district like that. We're very community-oriented. 
There's a strong sense of personal responsibility. When good things 
happen to us, we celebrate together. When bad things happen, like the 
loss of a heroic soldier, like Corporal Nepsa, we grieve together as a 
community. Our community continues to grieve for him, as well as the 15 
other young men who went to this war and will never come home.

This war has spread its tentacles in many different directions within 
our culture. As a Member of Congress, I'm sure I share this sentiment 
with all of those colleagues who are here with me today. We have a 
sacred obligation to make sure that we protect them while at war to the 
extent that we're able. But we also have an obligation to bring them 
home to their families and to their communities as soon as we are able.

I yield back.