---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e52e159f0656cb7e4d71a41445bd7aef`
`Ms. HOOLEY — 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. HOOLEY. I thank my friend from Texas for yielding, and I thank 
the chairman of the Budget Committee for the fabulous job he did.

I rise today to speak on the budget, a budget I am very proud of. 
This budget keeps our promise to our veterans, gives us the tools to 
defend our country, grows our economy, provides American children 
health care, and much more. All of it is done in a fiscally responsible 
way, ensuring a balanced budget by 2012, and all the while not raising 
taxes.

This budget before us sets priorities and ensures that a promise made 
to our brave veterans will truly be a promise kept. Too often over the 
last 6 years we failed to meet our basic obligation to our veterans. 
American veterans who served with honor and distinction deserve better. 
This budget is a step towards making sure our veterans get what they 
have earned.

We also have to remember that today's soldiers are tomorrow's 
veterans. At a time when we are asking our men and women in uniform to 
sacrifice so much, it is inexcusable not to honor their service by 
providing the benefits and health care our veterans were promised.

This budget, Mr. Chairman, puts us back on track. I am proud to say 
that the $5.4 billion increase in funding for veterans is a record 18 
percent increase.

We are sending a strong statement to our veterans and service men and 
women of today that we as a Nation will not forget their sacrifices. I 
have three letters that I would like to submit for the Record, and I 
would like to quote from them.

First of all, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Gary Kurpius, Commander-in-
Chief, says: ''We have long argued that the price of health care and 
benefits for this Nation's veterans are the ongoing costs of war. The 
$3.5 billion increase above the President's request is a strong 
acknowledgment that you agree and that this Nation must do more to live 
up to its sacred obligation to those who have defended her. The costs 
of war are not just about buying bombs or tanks, but about providing 
for our sick and disabled when they return and helping those heroes 
care for families and independents. The members of the VFW stand firmly 
behind you.''

From the Disabled American Veterans, National Commander Bradley 
Barton says: ''The budget recommendations that came out of the House 
and Senate Budget Committee will make a real difference in the lives of 
America's sick and disabled veterans. This is especially important as 
our Nation is at war.''

And finally, from Steve Robertson, director, National Legislative 
Commission of the American Legion says: ''The American Legion and its 
2.8 million members applaud the Budget Committee. As a Nation at war, 
this funding will help cover the ongoing cost of war to care for the 
men and women of the United States Armed Forces and their families.''

I support this budget. I support our veterans. This is a good budget. 
Again, I want to remind people, it does not raise taxes. But if you 
want to support our veterans, you should vote for this budget.

























 March 21, 2007.


 Hon. John Spratt,


 Chairman, Committee on the Budget, House of Representatives, 




 Washington, DC.



 Dear Chairman Spratt: On behalf of the 2.4 million men and 


 women of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the U.S. (VFW), and 


 our Auxiliaries, I would like to offer our gratitude for the 


 leadership you have demonstrated on veterans' issues through 


 your dramatic increase above and beyond the President's 


 request for fiscal year 2008 funding for the Department of 


 Veterans Affairs (VA).



 We have long argued at the price of health care and 


 benefits for this Nation's veterans are the ongoing costs of 


 war. The $3.5 billion increase above the President's request 


 is a strong acknowledgement that you agree and that this 


 Nation must do more to live up to its sacred obligations to 


 those who have defended her. The costs of war are not just 


 about buying bombs or tanks, but about providing for our sick 


 and disabled when they return, and helping these heroes care 


 for their families and dependents.



 The dramatic increase in this budget recommendation will 


 help to ensure that all veterans--those from Operations 


 Enduring and Iraqi Freedom and those from all our previous 


 conflicts--have access to the high-quality health care VA 


 provides, and quicker resolution to their veterans' 


 disability compensation decisions.



 The members of the VFW stand firmly behind you, in support 


 of your strong advocacy for this Nation's veterans. We thank 


 you for your strong leadership on veterans' health care and 


 benefits, and we look forward to working with you to ensure 


 the success of this budget.





 Sincerely,


























 Gary Kurpius,


 Commander-in-Chief.