---
---

# HONORING LIEUTENANT GENERAL RUSSEL L. HONORE
## `e535054f26a2515f2bc6f64a8eedc440`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 25 February 2008`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. To my two distinguished colleagues who have 
taken the leadership on this time on the floor, I thank you for your 
graciousness in allowing us to bring up H. Res. 944 and at the same 
time to recognize what is arguably an extraordinary and great moment in 
American history.

For this man, Lieutenant General Russel Honore, the only word that 
comes to mind, Mr. Speaker, is that word ''great.'' There have been 
some great moments and great events in the last 7 years of this country 
that have threatened the very foundation of our country. The 9/11 of 
2001 that launched the vicious attack on this country that led us into 
this extraordinary period of this war on terror, and then just 4 years 
later a great catastrophe, one of the greatest natural disasters to 
have ever hit the United States of America and to the gulf coast of 
this country: Hurricane Katrina. Great events, great occasions bring 
forth the need to rise up to this occasion and these great occasions 
great men.

We are here today to honor a great American, and we ought to pause 
for a moment and think about this word ''great'' that we are using to 
describe this great American, Lieutenant General Russel Honore. The 
word ''great'' means something of great magnificence. When that 
question was put to the great philosopher Aristotle, what does it take 
to be a great man, Aristotle said the first thing you've got to do is 
know thyself.

Well, I am here to tell you, Mr. Speaker, Russel Honore knew himself, 
and not only did he know who he was, Russel Honore knew whose he was, 
that he was foremost and first of all a child of God that had been 
brought on this Earth for a great need and a great occasion.

Later on in history that question was put to the great Roman general 
and soldier Marcus Aurelius. The question was put to Marcus Aurelius, 
what does it take to be a great man? Marcus Aurelius said, in order to 
be a great man, you must, first of all, discipline yourself. And so 
much has been said about the great soldiering of this great American. 
The hallmark word is ''discipline,'' ''focus.'' He endured hardness and 
toughness as a good soldier, and through that discipline came the 
loyalty, came the courage that it took to fighting the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan but, more than that, to expound the toughness and the 
discipline that was needed to our fellow soldiers that came under his 
care. For there is no greater thing of General Honore than the love of 
his soldiers, and he exemplified that by heading up the commandant post 
in my district at Fort Gillem, Georgia. For three-quarters of the 
National Guard that had to be positioned, had to be trained, had to be 
deployed into the war zones came through the hand of Russel Honore at 
Fort Gillem in Clayton County and Forest Park in Georgia and my 
congressional district.

And, finally, that question was put to the great Messiah and prophet 
Jesus Christ when He was asked, Jesus, what does it take to be a great 
man? And Jesus replied, first of all, in order to be a great man, you 
must sacrifice yourself. And, oh, what a great sacrifice. And you must 
love your fellow man as you do yourself. And what greater exemplary of 
that was in going down into Katrina and not just soldiering, not just 
taking the time to protect the area, but clothing the people there, 
finding food and shelter for them, and taking the time to stop beside 
the road of the agony that they were experiencing, put an arm around 
them, and help that gulf coast to recovery.

Yes, ''greatness'' is the word for General Russel Honore. And we are 
so grateful for him, for the role that he has played, and for the 
greatness of this man. For he came at the most opportune time to 
provide the most opportune service, and he is truly a great American 
serving a great Nation.