# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `e53a0423a92288c1359b3b056db47b89`
`Mr. TANNER — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. TANNER. Madam Chairman, we have seen, as Mr. Boyd pointed out, an 
unprecedented amount of borrowing take place since 2001. No political 
leadership in this country has borrowed as much money as quickly as we 
have seen over the last 80 months or so. That's just part of the story. 
Let me tell you the other part of the story.

This administration has borrowed more money from foreign sources than 
all 42 administrations before it put together. And apparently, some 
here on the floor want to keep doing what we've been doing.

This budget resolution is like an aircraft carrier. It takes seven 
miles to turn an aircraft carrier. This starts the turn back toward 
some degree of fiscal sanity. Let me tell you what the consequences of 
what we have witnessed are with this foreign borrowing.



Today, because of these practices, we are borrowing. Remember, now, 
we are in war in Iraq and Afghanistan. We are borrowing from foreign 
sources $505 million a day, $21 million an hour, which means we've 
borrowed probably close to $80 million since we started this debate, 
$351,000 a minute, $5,852 a second, for a total a year of $182 billion 
a year that everybody around the world is letting us have so that we 
can maintain, as some would suggest, our standard of living.

All of you know that when you degrade your financial base to the 
extent that we have and that we are continuing to do unless we begin to 
change courses, as this budget does, this country is going to wind up 
in the trash bin of history. No country can continue to do this. You 
would be interested to know that we owe China almost half a billion 
dollars. We owe Mexico $35 billion. We owe Taiwan $38 billion. Maybe 
Taiwan will give us a loan so we can defend them against China if that 
ever occurs. We owe Switzerland $39 billion, Japan over a half a 
trillion, the UK, Brazil, Caribbean Banking. We owe Luxembourg $70 
billion, and it's going up every day to the tune of $500 million a 
year.

This budget starts to turn back toward some degree of fiscal sanity. 
Everybody in this country knows we can't continue to do what these 
people want to continue to do without bankrupting ourselves and our 
children.