# None
## `e54924b2b779ac034c22119838553d87`
`Mr. NADLER — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and the bill 
because I believe it does two critical and important things.

First, it provides $50 billion to finance military withdrawal from 
Iraq, to be completed by the end of next year. I voted against the 
beginning of the war, and I have consistently tried to end America's 
involvement in the war. Saddam Hussein is gone, there were no weapons 
of mass destruction, and there was no Iraqi involvement with al Qaeda 
or with 9/11. Al Qaeda in Iraq is now in shatters and subject to attack 
by both Shiites and Sunnis and poses no ongoing threat to the United 
States. We have no stake in the Iraqi civil war, and it is time to end 
our occupation.

I signed a letter to the President back in July with over 60 of my 
colleagues vowing not to support any more money for the war in Iraq 
unless it was for the protection and redeployment of our troops. I 
believe this bill is consistent with that commitment. The time has come 
to end the war, and the money we provide should be used only for that 
purpose.

The second critical thing this bill does is to end torture by the 
United States Government. By including in this bill the American Anti-
Torture Act, which was introduced by Representative Delahunt and 
myself, we are saying, once and for all, no more torture. The law now 
requires the Department of Defense to follow the Army Field Manual, 
which bars torture or cruel and inhuman procedures such as 
waterboarding. This bill extends these limits to every U.S. government 
agency, including the CIA, and ensures a single, uniform, baseline 
standard for all interrogations of people under U.S. control. In short, 
that means no more waterboarding, no more clever wordplay, no more 
evasive answers, and no more uncertainty with regard to what is allowed 
and what is not allowed. It is time to restore the honor of the United 
States and to force the administration to act in a manner consistent 
with the Constitution.

When this bill is passed, the President could have two options: He 
could sign this bill and help bring the war in Iraq to a speedy end. Or 
he could veto the bill, in which case he will have to explain why he is 
denying funds for the troops. But we will not vote for further funding 
without a requirement to withdraw the troops as in this bill.

Mr. Speaker, let's end this war and let's end torture. I urge my 
colleagues to support this bill.