# GAS PRICE RELIEF FOR CONSUMERS ACT OF 2008
## `e554cc2e5665c4f8797bfeac8344f6f4`
`Mr. SCOTT of Virginia — 19 May 2008`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, we have seen the price of oil skyrocket, from about $50 
a barrel only a year ago, to nearly $128 a barrel as of last week. The 
retail price of gasoline has likewise jumped and is now in the range of 
$4 a gallon. Americans are finding it increasingly more difficult to 
fill up their gas tank in the family car.

A number of factors undoubtedly contribute to this dire situation. 
Some might cite the war in Iraq which the President has waged for 5 
years, which has both diverted trillions of dollars from more 
productive uses in our economy and, at the same time, contributed to 
the weakening of the dollar against other currencies.

Others will say that we should be devoting more resources to 
alternative fuels. But let's not overlook the elephant in the room. We 
have a dysfunctional marketplace for oil. We depend on a few large oil 
refining companies to supply gasoline. They have become even fewer and 
even larger as a result of a wave of mergers over the last decade or 
so. What's more, at the center of it all is an international oil 
cartel, OPEC.

The Gas Price Relief For Customers Act of 2008, introduced by the 
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Kagen) addresses that marketplace 
dysfunction in three important ways.

First, it clears away the dubious legal doctrines that have been 
twisted to prevent us from holding the OPEC cartel accountable under 
antitrust laws. It will now be clear that price fixing violates 
antitrust laws just as much when committed by OPEC as it does by other 
cartels.

Just last week, President Bush traveled to Saudi Arabia, hat in hand, 
to ask King Abdullah to relax just a little OPEC cartel's choke hold on 
the world oil marketplace. King Abdullah said no, he would not.

OPEC's concerted manipulation of world oil marketplaces calls for 
more than begging for help. It calls for full antitrust enforcement. 
Our antitrust laws are international in their reach, and over the years 
they've been used effectively against numerous cartels around the world 
to vindicate the rights of American consumers to receive the benefits 
of honest competition. There is no excuse for giving the most notorious 
cartel a free pass.

Second, the bill requires the Justice Department to establish a task 
force to better ensure that it is effectively monitoring all parts of 
the petroleum and petroleum products marketplace for anticompetitive 
practices that artificially restrict supply or inflate prices, such as, 
for example, the illegal manipulation of investments in the futures 
market.

Third, the bill requires GAO to take a retrospective look at oil 
industry mergers that were allowed to take place over the past decade 
to assess to what extent the resulting increase in market concentration 
has contributed to the high gas prices Americans are now paying at the 
pump. This will help inform Congress and the antitrust enforcers as to 
what needs to be done to better ensure a competitive gasoline 
marketplace going forward.

These three important steps we can take now to better ensure, to 
better secure lower market prices for gasoline that the honest 
competition will bring about for all Americans.

I would, again, like to thank the gentleman from Wisconsin Mr. Kagen 
for bringing this bill before us to the House.

I urge my colleagues to support it and reserve the balance of my 
time.