---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE
## `e55c33c98f40791d63bb5bea127bbe85`
`Mr. PALLONE — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. PALLONE. You know, when you relate your own experiences, I can 
relate so much to it myself.

I have to say, I was thinking back about 10 years ago when we first 
started the program. Of course, my wife and I were just starting to 
have kids. My oldest daughter now is 13, so she was three at the time. 
And I guess I had my son at the time, he was only one. And we were 
starting to realize at the time about the fact that, first of all, as 
parents, the idea of kids not having health insurance, you know, young 
kids at that age was really an awful thing. And that's why we got 
involved. I say ''we'' because my wife got involved in the whole issue 
as well. And to think about the fact that you have children and they 
can't have health insurance or you have to take them to an emergency 
room is just an awful thing.

I worry myself even now because a lot of times your health insurance 
doesn't cover everything. Like I was faced with the orthodontist bill a 
couple years ago. And I suddenly realized our insurance doesn't cover 
orthodontistry. And that was upsetting, but to think of parents that 
can't even take their kids to the doctor is just an awful thing.

One of the things that my wife would always say to me that she 
observed was that many times government officials, and I don't want to 
speak about ourselves because I don't want to be critical, but a lot of 
times politicians don't think about kids because of the fact that they 
don't vote. And I would almost kind of differ with the gentleman from 
Maine when he says that, you know, one of the things that we found and 
one of the reasons why States like Connecticut and New Jersey have 
covered some of the parents is because they have noticed that a lot of 
times the parents wouldn't enroll the kids unless they were eligible 
themselves to be enrolled in the program. And I again go back to, this 
is really a very practical thing. If some States have found that the 
parents won't enroll the kids unless they're enrolled, they actually 
allow the parents to enroll as an incentive to get the kids enrolled.

Because you can be cynical. I mean, you have to say that 
unfortunately sometimes parents don't care or sometimes politicians 
don't care. And the fact that we were able to do this and basically do 
a kids' health initiative program and get the political support for it 
in some ways was an amazing thing. You would say, well, gee, that's a 
basic thing, why wouldn't that happen? But it wasn't that easy. And 
we're going to have to continue to fight to expand it today.

I just wanted to answer your question, because I know that the 
gentleman from Maine did, but you said, what would happen if we don't 
reauthorize?

Well, I will just say, first of all, essentially this has happened in 
some fashion in the last few years. States have run out of money 
because there wasn't enough money as early as March in a given calendar 
year. Georgia ran out of money this March. And my own State started to 
run out of money by May. So we had to actually do a supplemental 
appropriation. The world knows it as the ''Iraq supplemental,'' but 
actually it was the supplemental that included the funding for Iraq, 
and it included about $750 million for SCHIP because States, in fact, 
were running out of money.

In my own State of New Jersey a couple of years had to cut back on 
the program and actually lower the eligibility and eliminate parents 
because of the fact that they started to run out of money. So we have 
experience of what actually happens if we don't provide the additional 
funds.

The other thing, too, is that until last year, every year for the 
first 9 years of the program, the number of uninsured kids in the 
country was going down. But last year, for the first time, the number 
of uninsured kids went up. So this is a crisis. I mean, if we're going 
to get to those extra kids, we really have to do something.