---
---

# None
## `e56b079a16952f40f8fe82f956d8b046`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Mr. Speaker, continuing along the lines of 
what Congressman Meek has been speaking about, I sat behind him and he 
did not know that I was there. I thought that it would be helpful if I 
would join my very good friend, who is a member of the 30-somethings, 
and have him know that those of us that are the over 30-somethings have 
the exact same sentiments as it pertains to the circumstances as exist 
in our respective communities because of the Iraq war.

Representative Meek, I wish to just bring to the table one example. I 
won't use the many in the congressional district that I am privileged 
to represent which abuts your district, and we have overlapping 
circumstances in a variety of our communities in South Broward and 
North Dade, and in this case I am going to carry it way west to the 
Everglades.

For the last 7 years, I have been about the business of trying to get 
a water treatment plant in Belle Glade, Florida for the people of Belle 
Glade, South Bay, Pahokee, and that general area. I won't even talk 
about the hospital; I won't even talk about the police that you have 
already talked about that we have tried to get. And so I thought, well, 
certainly now that we have political circumstances that are favorable 
to the majority, that it would be very easy to get a water treatment 
plant.

Now, you and I know this: we know that in Iraq we have paid for water 
treatment facilities that have been blown up. We know that we have paid 
for sewers that the materials were stolen. And we know that we are 
building an embassy, I guess we are building an embassy, at more money 
that I can ever contemplate that must have a big bull's eye on it, but 
we are not sure who is building it. We know about no-bid contracts. We 
know about millions of dollars being poured into this situation while 
our communities are suffering. Now, something is wrong with this 
picture.

I heard you loud and clear regarding the extraordinary debt. And I 
don't mean to take much of your time, I came down here to file this 
bill, but I could not resist. And I yield back to my very good friend 
from Florida.