---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `e58002c685e5b021138a80da5f285324`
`Mr. SHUSTER — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SHUSTER. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I spent the Fourth of July recess traveling to Pakistan 
and to Iraq.

I came away with a couple of observations. First in Pakistan, our 
allies in the war on terror, the Pakistanis, have great concern about 
an early withdrawal from Iraq, because they saw first hand, after the 
defeat of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, when America left that 
region, left Afghanistan to uncertainty and chaos, what happened was 
the rise of the Taliban, an extremist group, that then gave basis to al 
Qaeda to be able to plan and plot the 9/11 attacks on America.

So the Pakistanis are extremely concerned about an early withdrawal. 
Our allies around the world are concerned. The word of America is at 
risk. Our allies are watching what we do here in the United States 
Congress and what America does.

Second, traveling to Iraq, I came away with some positive reports, 
not only from our commanders, but listening to the Iraqi general, who 
is in charge of the national police. He said that the Shia, the Sunni 
and the Kurds have come together as Iraqis, standing up a national 
police force that's fighting to throw out the negative elements that 
are in Iraq today. They are standing shoulder-to-shoulder, the Shia, 
Sunni and Kurds. Our folks also told us that they need more time to 
train the police, the security of the Iraqis.

Talking to our soldiers was the most powerful information I came away 
with. One of the sergeants in our Special Forces told us something very 
significant. Right about now, he is saddling up, he is getting ready to 
go out on a dangerous mission in Iraq tonight to either kill al Qaeda 
to take down a production facility for IEDs. He said to me, he said to 
the group of us that was there, we cannot leave Iraq prematurely 
because chaos will ensue, and what we will find is that the terrorists 
will be in the streets of America.

So listening to that powerful statement from somebody who is putting 
his life on the line, every single night, that's powerful information. 
Those are powerful words.

We have to allow this surge, not just to last for 3 weeks, but to go 
for 3 months. Let it go. Let us vote down this resolution.