---
---

# None
## `e582e4e49a172d8fc512336e894804d4`
`Mr. AL GREEN of Texas — 12 February 2008`

---


Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, it is with great sadness that I 
mourn the passing, and commemorate the courageous life, of my dear 
friend and colleague, Congressman Tom Lantos of California.

Congressman Lantos began a lifetime of passionate work for human 
rights as a young man when he escaped a forced labor brigade to join an 
underground resistance movement against the Nazis in his home country 
of Hungary. A Jewish survivor of the Holocaust, he was just a teenager 
when he undertook this important work, which began over 60 years of 
efforts to fight for human rights across the world.

Congressman Lantos' life of work on behalf of human rights culminated 
with over two decades of service in Congress, where he never failed to 
champion causes that he felt were just. In 1983, Congressman Lantos 
became a founding co-chair of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, a 
caucus on which he served for the remainder of his life. Under 
Congressman Lantos' leadership, this caucus was on the forefront of 
efforts to protect women's and children's rights, to free political 
prisoners, to preserve religious freedom and to halt ethnic cleansing.

In recent years, Congressman Lantos directed his focus to ending the 
ongoing genocide in the Darfur region of Sudan, which has already 
claimed the lives of over 400,000 people. In 2006, he was among a group 
of 11 individuals who were arrested for committing civil disobedience 
outside the Sudanese Embassy in protest of the genocide. I can only say 
that it was an honor to follow in this wonderful man's footsteps by 
doing the same thing myself a few short weeks later.

Beginning last year, when Congressman Lantos became Chairman of the 
House Foreign Affairs Committee, he brought the crisis in Darfur and 
the recent violent crackdown on democracy activists in Burma to the 
forefront. It also must be noted that, under Chairman Lantos' 
leadership, the Foreign Affairs Committee finally began long-overdue 
oversight of the war in Iraq.

Congressman Lantos' inspiring leadership will be sorely missed, not 
only in this Congress, but by people around the world. I wish to send 
my deepest condolences to Congressman Lantos' friends, family and 
constituents for the loss of this irreplaceable man of good will.