---
---

# NATIONAL CAPITAL SECURITY AND SAFETY ACT
## `e585f40e585a29ffb566dbd9d9589cd0`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 17 September 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, first and foremost, I think 
it is imperative that we understand that the security and safety of our 
Nation's capitol should be of vital importance to all Americans, not 
simply the residents of the District of Columbia.

My dear colleague and District of Columbia Representative, 
Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton along with Congressman Henry Waxman 
of California, drafted comprehensive and sensible firearm legislation 
which the Childers/Souder amendment not only eviscerates but allows 
residents and federal officials to places in immense danger.













 Childers/Souder Amendment


The Childers/Souder Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute 
completely destroys the sensible Norton/Waxman Home Rule bill.

The dangerous consequences include:

No gun registration to let the police know who has guns and to trace 
guns used in crimes.

No regulation of guns, only a bare federal statute resulting in one 
of the most permissive gun laws in the Nation--post 9/11.

No age limit for possession of guns, including military-style 
weapons.

Permits a person who is voluntarily committed to a mental institution 
to own a gun the day after he gets out.

Federal law forbids a person to cross State lines to purchase a gun 
and bring it back, but this makes an exception uniquely for District 
residents to cross State lines to purchase guns and bring them back 
from Maryland and Virginia.

Requires a ''gun show loophole,'' which avoids background checks in 
the nation's capital, i.e., District of Columbia residents can purchase 
weapons from private individuals and at gun shows without background 
checks.















District of Columbia


The District of Columbia (the District) is a local self-governing 
jurisdiction and the seat of the United States Government, with unique 
Federal responsibilities. It is here that the President, the Vice 
President, and many cabinet and other Federal officials reside.

Unregulated firearms in the capital would preclude the ability of the 
District Metropolitan Police Department to track guns through 
registration and otherwise help ensure that guns do not endanger 
Federal officials and employees, visiting dignitaries, and other 
individuals.


Revision of District of Columbia Firearms Laws and District of Columbia 















 v. Heller


The revised firearm legislation requires the District within 6 months 
after enactment, to revise its laws governing the possession and use of 
firearms as necessary to comply with the decision of the Supreme Court 
in District of Columbia v. Heller. It also amends the Firearms Control 
Regulations Act of 1975 by adding a new section requiring the Mayor and 
the Council of the District to ensure that the District's firearms laws 
are consistent with Heller.

In Heller, the Supreme Court ruled in a 5-4 decision that the Second 
Amendment to the Constitution protects an individual's right to possess 
a firearm, irrespective of service in a militia, and to use that arm 
for traditionally lawful purposes such as self-defense within the home.

The decision in Heller affirmed the holding in Parker v. District of 
Columbia, wherein the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia 
declared three provisions of the District's Firearms Control Regulation 
Act to be unconstitutional: D.C. Code Sec. 7-2502.02, which generally 
barred the registration of handguns; Sec. 22-4504, which prohibited 
carrying a pistol without a license, insofar as that provision would 
prevent a registrant from moving a gun from one room to another within 
his or her home; and Sec. 7-2507.02, which required that all lawfully 
owned firearms be kept unloaded and disassembled or bound by a trigger 
lock or similar device.

Addressing the holding in Parker, the Supreme Court noted that the 
District's approach ''totally bans handgun possession in the home.'' 
The Court then declared that the inherent right of self-defense is 
central to the Second Amendment right, and that the District's handgun 
ban amounted to a prohibition of an entire class of arms that has been 
overwhelmingly utilized by American society for that purpose.

The Court also struck down as unconstitutional the requirement that 
any lawful firearm in the home be disassembled or bound by a trigger 
lock, as such a requirement ''makes it impossible for citizens to use 
arms for the core lawful purpose of self-defense.''















 Firearms and Youth


Right here in America according to the Harvard Injury Control 
Research Center, Harvard School of Public Health approximately 2,500 
black youth (aged 15-24) die annually from gun homicide, 950 Hispanic 
youths and 600 white youth. For gun suicides, it's about 1,600 white 
youths annually, 300 black youths and 200 Hispanic youths.


Between 20 percent and 50 percent of children in the United States 
are touched by violence, either as victims or, even more commonly, as 
witnesses. And sadly for every child killed by a gun, four are injured 
according to the national estimates of nonfatal firearm-related 
injuries by the Journal of the American Medical Association.


















 Texas


In the U.S., the leading cause of death for African-Americans ages 
15-24 and 25-34 is homicide, with the overwhelming majority (90 percent 
and 87 percent, respectively) committed with firearms. Homicide is the 
second leading cause of death for African-Americans ages 10-14, with 
firearm-related deaths accounting for 70 percent of these deaths.

Every day in Texas someone dies or is severely injured as a result of 
gun violence. Texans die from suicide, accidents, and crime. In 2004, 
2,342 people died from firearm-related injuries in Texas. We hear about 
these deaths every day: depressed teenagers and spouses taking their 
own lives, children finding a loaded gun at a friend's house, gun 
related crime, etc. We hear about it so often; we have become numb to 
it and feel nothing can be done.


















Firearms


While we speak of dignitaries, members of Congress, and the 
executive--the fact is that it is our children that are most at risk. 
We cannot allow a vague interpretation of the Second Amendment to put 
our children at risk and move guns on our streets.

It is our young African-American and Hispanic men who are frequently 
caught up in this system. Among youth ages 15-24, firearms rank as the 
leading cause of death for African-Americans and the second leading 
cause of death for whites and Hispanic youth. With over 5,049 federally 
licensed firearms dealers and pawnbrokers in Texas alone, how many more 
guns on our streets do we need?

















 Conclusion


Mr. Chairman I urge my colleagues to think about the safe of our 
children. Is there not already enough violence? For all the firearms in 
Afghanistan and Iraq is it helping them? Do more guns on our streets 
make them safer? I think we all know the answer is a resounding ''no.'' 
I am not asking that we remove all firearms from the hands of every 
responsible and


law-abiding American, but I ask that we support sensible and 
comprehensive firearm legislation such as the Norton/Waxman approach.