---
---

# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT
## `e5884d37a0d22cadd9b1a89c5fce6d72`
`Mr. SPECTER — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, we have heard from the objectors what the 
American people think. I am not sure they have standing to represent 
the American people. We heard the junior Senator from South Carolina 
speak as to his interpretation of what the American people think. But 
we heard the senior Senator from South Carolina stand in firm support 
of this legislation--the Senator representing South Carolina, as well 
as the other Senator from South Carolina.

We know as a matter of practice that the callers and the e-mailers 
are characteristically naysayers. You hear a lot more from people who 
object than you do from people who are in favor. We know that the 
majority of America is the silent majority. From my own soundings, what 
I hear on the train when I come back and forth from Pennsylvania, what 
I hear in the restaurants, on the streets, and in the fitness club is 
to proceed, try to find a way to improve a very serious situation in 
immigration.

No one of us is able to speak for the American people. We hear 
different voices at different times. I know one thing with relative 
certainty, and that is you cannot tell what the American people think 
simply by those who object and those who call. We do not run America in 
a representative democracy, in a republic, by public opinion polls. If 
we did, we would take the public opinion poll and we could dispense 
with all of the fat salaries that Members of Congress get. We could 
dispense with paying 535 people and take a public opinion poll and sign 
it into law.

I think the most erudite statement on this particular issue was 
uttered by


a distinguished British philosopher politician, named Edmund Burke, in 
a speech to the electorate of Bristol on November 3, 1774, when he made 
this famous statement:




 Your representative owes you, not his industry only, but 


 his judgment; and he betrays, instead of serving you, if he 


 sacrifices it to your opinion.


Now, that is not to say in a representative democracy we ought to not 
consider the opinions of our constituents, but I think Edmund Burke was 
right more than 200 years ago when he talked about our duty in owing 
our constituents our best judgment.

What is our best judgment and how have we come to it? We have been 
working on immigration a long time, and we saw the failures of the 1986 
legislation. Because the 1986 legislation failed doesn't mean we cannot 
correct the problem. Things are very different today than they were in 
1986. For one thing, we now have a foolproof method of determining 
whether an individual is legal or illegal. So now we can hold employers 
responsible not to hire illegal immigrants. We can take away the magnet 
of work in this country for those who are not here legally.

We have lost sight I think, of the very fundamental purpose as to 
what we are trying to accomplish through legislation to reform 
immigration.

We are trying to secure our borders. This bill goes a long way to 
securing the borders with fencing, with automobile blocks, with more 
Border Patrol. The entire 2,000-mile plus of the border will be more 
secure. It can't be perfectly secured, and that is why we have employer 
verification which, as I say, is now foolproof. Then when we deal with 
the immigrants, we are trying to deal with the 12 million undocumented 
immigrants. Those who would like more--I said earlier that if I had my 
choice, I would agree with Senator Menendez, that I would have more 
family unification. I would agree with Senator Dodd that I would have 
more visas for parents. But this legislation is crafted by compromise, 
and that is the art of politics--the compromise. So it is the best bill 
that we can structure and come forward with.

If we do not legislate now, we will not legislate later this year 
when our calendar is crowded with Iraq and appropriations bills and 
patent reform, et cetera. We are then into 2008 and an election year 
for President and Congress, and it will be pushed over to 2009. 
Circumstances will not be better then, they will be worse.

We have a very frequent practice, as we all know, for Senators to 
vote in favor of cloture, and then to vote against the bill. That is an 
expression of policy judgment not to hold a piece of legislation to a 
60-vote supermajority level. We do not have an issue of freedom of 
religion. We do not have an issue of freedom of speech. We have a 
public policy question where in good conscience Senators can say: I am 
opposed to the legislation, but I do not think it ought to be held to a 
60-vote supermajority.

If we do not invoke cloture, this bill is dead. A vote against 
cloture is a vote to kill the bill. A Senator may vote for cloture and 
then express himself in opposition to the bill by voting against the 
bill.

For those who did not hear an earlier statement I made, I repeat, we 
had the unusual situation on the Dorgan amendment where Senators did 
not vote their judgment on public policy but voted against their own 
judgment to kill the legislation.

We have a tally sheet, those of us who work in the Senate, showing 
how Senators voted. And on the Baucus amendment yesterday, we had the 
extraordinary situation of 23 vote changes. You can tell the vote 
change because there is a mark on one side, it is crossed off, and the 
mark then appears on the other side.

I suggest to my colleagues that we had more cynical maneuvering on 
the Baucus vote, which is characteristic of the maneuvering throughout 
the text of this legislation, and that what this body ought to do is 
take the famous words of President John F. Kennedy when he served in 
this body, to exercise a little courage, a profile in courage as 
opposed to what appears to be a profile in cynicism.

The essence of it is, Senators can vote for cloture not to kill the 
bill, and then vote against the bill and exercise their right to do 
that and still allow this bill to go forward where it may yet be 
improved.

Mr. President, I see my time is just about to expire. How much time 
remains?