---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `e59a4ef3922a2155bd3c174ad54617ba`
`Mr. DURBIN — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today we face an awesome vote, a historic 
vote in the Senate. It is a vote about this war in Iraq. It is an issue 
which consumes this Senate and this Nation. We have lost 3,400 
soldiers, over 30,000 returned home injured, some with serious, 
grievous disabilities and injuries they will battle for a lifetime. We 
have spent over $500 billion, and there is no end in sight.

This morning, the White House announced that the President has 
finally found a general who will accept the responsibility for the 
execution of this war. Why did four generals before him refuse this 
assignment? Because those four generals know, the American people know, 
and this Senate knows that the administration's policy in Iraq has 
failed.

Our soldiers have not failed. They have risen again to the challenge. 
They have exhibited such courage and bravery. They have shown the kind 
of sacrifice that wins over the hearts of generation after generation 
of American people. But the Iraqis failed to lead their own nation, and 
the situation in that country is in disarray.

Now is the time for the Senate to speak directly, honestly, 
decisively. This war must end. Our troops must come home. The Iraqis 
must accept responsibility for their future.

The Feingold-Reid amendment, which will be before us today, may not 
be adopted, but it will be adopted at


another time on another day. At some future moment, after we have 
buried more of our fallen heroes, after we have cared for those 
thousands returning with injuries, after the Iraqis have broken our 
hearts again with their interminable fighting, their interminable civil 
war, and their lack of leadership in their nation, then we will act. 
But today is the day when we should act.

I respect very much my colleague from Virginia, Senator Warner. He is 
one of the few on that side of the aisle who have spoken out suggesting 
that these policies must change. I don't believe his amendment achieves 
all that we need to achieve today. It sets benchmarks but gives the 
President the power to waive those benchmarks and the requirements that 
come with them. Sadly, we know what this President will do. Just as 
with the sweep of a veto pen he swept away our bipartisan effort to 
start a timetable to end this war, he will sign a waiver and continue 
on for the next 18, 19 months with this war with no end in sight.