# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e5a1c888fcac6d236f552c257031c2fb`
`Mr. HUNTER — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank my friend for yielding.

This is, indeed, a sad time in our country. Five years ago we came to 
this floor united. We joined in sending our troops off in this war 
against terror.

You know, Madam Speaker, for the first number of strikes that were 
delivered by Muslim extremists in this war, the terrorists chose the 
battlefields. They chose a battlefield as a Marine barracks in Beirut. 
And Mr. Skelton and I were there, he shortly after the explosion that 
killed our Marines, I shortly before that explosion. They chose the 
Khobar Towers, they chose the embassies in Africa, they chose the USS 
Cole, and then they chose New


York, Washington, DC, and Pennsylvania. We chose the next two 
battlefields, Afghanistan and Iraq.

Our Democrat colleagues say that Iraq was the wrong battlefield, and 
I have heard resonating through the floor over the last 4 days 
statements that they were tricked, hornswoggled, fooled about Saddam 
Hussein.

From my side of the argument as to whether or not Saddam Hussein was 
a dangerous terrorist, I will simply offer all the statements by every 
Democrat leader in America during the 1990s, when there was no Bush 
administration to, in the words of my Democrat colleagues, ''trick 
them.'' I will offer their statements about Saddam Hussein.

Madam Speaker, we have expanded in the last 60 years. We have been in 
the business of expanding freedom. We understood after World War II 
that if we didn't change the world, the world would change us. And that 
lesson was relearned after 9/11.

No one would argue that it is not in our interest to have a Japan on 
the other side of the Pacific, where we stood up a free government, 
where we have a free nation, or that it is not in our interest to have 
a free El Salvador in our own hemisphere, or that it is not in our 
interest to have those dozens of nations that were behind the Berlin 
Wall that are now free and working for freedom. Many of them are 
partners in Iraq. We understand that.

And now we are trying to expand freedom in a different part of the 
world, a very dangerous part of the world. And we are undertaking the 
same three-point strategy that we have had for 60 years: Number one, 
you stand up a free government; number two, you stand up a military 
capable of protecting that free government; and, number three, the 
Americans leave.

And we can build on this Baghdad plan, which is right now in the 
execution phase, this plan of having two or three Iraqi battalions out 
front, with an American backup battalion to mentor them, and we can 
rotate every one of the 129 Iraqi battalions through this type of a 
combat rotation, stand them up, give them battlefield experience, and 
then the Americans can leave.

Now, Madam Speaker, I have heard it said throughout this debate that 
there was somehow a smooth road not taken. And let me just say, that is 
not true. There are no smooth roads in the Middle East. There are no 
smooth roads to standing up new governments, especially in communities 
and states where people have been trained to live under dictatorships.

And for those who say if we had just kept Saddam Hussein's army in 
place, with it is 11,000 Sunni generals, everything would have been 
fine and we would have had a peaceful situation in Iraq right now, that 
is nonsense. And for those who said if we had had 200,000 or 300,000 
troops, the Shiites and Sunnis would have forgotten their ancient 
rivalries, that is also nonsense.

What are the facts, the reality, our Democrat friends say we have to 
be realists here, is this is a tough, difficult road. We are on the 
second stage right now. Most importantly, Madam Speaker, our troops are 
in the field already on this plan that is now being retroactively 
disavowed by the Democratic leadership.

You know, it was in June, I think it was 2130 hours, June 6, 1944, 
when the first elements of the first aircraft of the Pathfinder 
companies went out in front of the 82nd Airborne over Normandy, and 
they shortly were followed by hundreds of airplanes with American 
paratroopers. The 82nd Airborne going into Normandy had the full 
support and prayers of everybody in the United States Congress.

Today, you have got an 82nd Airborne Second Brigade now operating 
under this plan in Baghdad already there in Baghdad. Now, is this going 
to be the day, I would ask my colleagues, when some trooper from the 
82nd Airborne writes on the concrete wall next to his position in 
Baghdad, ''This is where I stood when the United States House of 
Representatives led by the Democrat leadership rejected my mission''? I 
hope that doesn't happen, Madam Speaker.

Vote ''no'' on this resolution.