---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `e5a191ac0cc459e7a6d3f7aca8c7fd49`
`Mr. LUGAR — 4 May 2009`

---


Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, I am pleased and honored to join our 
chairman, John Kerry, in introducing the Enhanced Partnership with 
Pakistan Act of 2009. Then-Senator Joe Biden and I originally 
introduced this legislation in July 2008. I have been especially 
pleased to continue the bipartisan effort on this bill with Senator 
Kerry.

Senators Biden and Kerry and I have worked closely over the past year 
with the State Department, USAID, the Defense Department, and the 
National Security Council to craft this legislation.

On March 27 of this year, President Obama announced a comprehensive 
strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan. In his speech he called on 
Congress ''to pass a bipartisan bill cosponsored by John Kerry and 
Richard Lugar that authorizes $1.5 billion in direct support to the 
Pakistani people every year over the next 5 years--resources that will 
build schools, roads, and hospitals, and strengthen Pakistan's 
democracy.''

Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff ADM Mike Mullen and CENTCOM 
Commander David Petraeus repeatedly advocated expanding foreign 
assistance to Pakistan as an essential element of our national 
security. Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Secretary of State Hillary 
Clinton both have testified that strengthening democracy and countering 
terrorism in Pakistan go hand in hand. Secretary Clinton said at a 
Senate Appropriations Committee meeting last week:




 As President Obama has consistently maintained, success in 


 Afghanistan depends on success in Pakistan. We have seen how 


 difficult it is for the government there to make progress, 


 and the Taliban continues to make inroads. Counterinsurgency 


 training is critical. But of equal importance are diplomacy 


 and development to provide economic stability and diminish 


 the conditions that feed extremism. This is the intent of the 


 comprehensive strategy laid out by Senator Kerry and Senator 


 Lugar, which President Obama has endorsed.


I take the time to detail administration backing for this bill and 
its concepts because any U.S. policy related to Pakistan will require 
the cooperation and active support of both the executive and 
legislative branches of our Government. It also will require that 
policy toward Pakistan be closely integrated with United States efforts 
throughout the region.

I do not regard the Kerry-Lugar bill as a congressionally driven 
initiative in which we are bargaining for support of the 
administration; rather, Senator Kerry and I are trying to play a 
constructive role in facilitating a consensus position between branches 
that will undergird a rational approach to the region with the best 
chance of success. With this in mind, it is vital that the 
administration's message on Pakistan be clear and consistent. The 
administration also must continue to actively consult with Congress on 
elements of strategy, not just lobby us for funds.

The United States has an intense strategic interest in Pakistan and 
the surrounding region. The U.S. National Intelligence Estimate last 
year painted a bleak picture of the converging crises in Pakistan. A 
growing al-Qaida sanctuary, an expanding Taliban insurgency, political 
brinksmanship, and a failing economy are intensifying the turmoil and 
violence in that country. These circumstances are a threat to Pakistan, 
the region, and the United States of America.

We should make clear to the people of Pakistan that our interests are 
focused on democracy, pluralism, stability, and the fight against 
terrorism. These are values supported by a large majority of Pakistani 
people. If Pakistan is to break its debilitating cycle of instability, 
it will need to achieve progress on fighting corruption, delivering 
government services, and promoting broad-based economic growth. The 
international community and the United States should support reforms 
that contribute to the strengthening of Pakistani civilian 
institutions.

This legislation marks an important step toward those goals. While 
our bill envisions sustained economic and political cooperation with 
Pakistan, it is not a blank check. It expects that the military 
institutions in Pakistan will turn their attention to the extremist 
dangers within Pakistan's borders. The bill subjects our security 
assistance to a certification that the Pakistani Government is using 
the money for its intended purpose--namely, to combat the Taliban and 
al-Qaida. The bill also calls for tangible progress in governance, 
including an independent judiciary, greater accountability by the 
central government, respect for human rights, and civilian control of 
the levers of power, including the military and the intelligence 
agencies.

In providing substantial resources to enhance a strategic partnership 
with Pakistan, our bill contains provisions to help ensure that this 
money is spent effectively and efficiently. The bill stipulates that 
the administration must provide Congress with a comprehensive 
assistance strategy before additional assistance is made available. 
This strategy is expected to detail clear objectives, enumerate 
projects the administration intends to implement, and identify criteria 
that the administration will use to measure the effectiveness of our 
assistance.

Once money begins to flow, the administration must report every 6 
months on how the money is spent and what impact it is having. In 
addition, the bill provides that before the administration spends more 
than half of the $1.5 billion authorized in any fiscal year, it must 
certify that the assistance provided to that date is making substantial 
progress toward the principal objectives contained in the 
administration's strategy report. We also have asked the Government 
Accountability Office to review annually the administration's progress 
on stated goals. To ensure that sufficient resources will be available 
to oversee our program in Pakistan, we authorize $20 million each year 
for audits and program reviews by the inspectors general of the State 
Department, USAID, and other relevant agencies.

I look forward to working with the administration of President Obama 
and with congressional colleagues on a policy toward Pakistan that 
builds our relationship with that nation and protects vital interests 
of the United States.

Again, I thank Senator Kerry for his partnership and leadership on 
this bill.