---
---

# None
## `e5adcd749502b74875d1f3b79aa4cb61`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 12 February 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, it is with great pleasure 
that I rise in strong support of H.R. 808, the ''Department of Peace 
and Nonviolence Act.'' This bill places efforts toward peace and 
nonviolence high on this Nation's list of priorities, efforts which 
deserve the same attention and organized structure that this government 
gives war through its Department of Defense.

I thank the gentleman from Ohio, Mr. Kucinich, for introducing this 
legislation, to reduce violence both within our borders and across the 
globe.

Here at home, the Department of Peace would seek to reduce domestic 
violence, gang violence, child abuse, violence in schools, hate crimes, 
racial violence, and mistreatment of the elderly. It would also seek to 
develop peace education programs, instructing students in peaceful 
conflict resolution skills both at home and abroad.

The Department of Peace would also strive to make a difference in the 
current United States foreign policy. This administration's attitude 
toward the international community has been far too aggressive, while 
critical human rights issues have been ignored. The Department of Peace 
would analyze these aspects of foreign policy and make recommendations 
to the President to ensure that human rights are protected and to 
lessen armed international conflict as a whole. Specifically, the 
Department of Peace and Nonviolence would seek to strengthen 
nonmilitary means of peacemaking and to promote the development of 
human potential. It is high time for the United States to change its 
approach to diplomatic efforts.

We have seen in Iraq how an aggressive foreign policy can destroy so 
many lives, throw a country into chaos and civil war, and drain the 
resources and social services of the American people. We are tired of 
this war, yet the President announced yesterday that he wants another 
$235 billion for military operations in the Middle East, while cutting 
away funds for the American people, such as healthcare and 
transportation.

Let us get our priorities straight. Let us put the American people's 
tax dollars in programs that benefit them, not in this meaningless war. 
Let us promote policies of peace and make this world a better place.
