# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `e5bd64089ae42617b3d26369bc9f5133`
`Mr. BAYH — 15 November 2010`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the life of SSG 
Kenneth K. McAninch of the U.S. Army and Logansport, IN.

Staff Sergeant McAninch was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 506th 
Infantry Regiment, 101st Airborne Division at Fort Campbell, KY. He was 
28 years old when he lost his life on October 21, 2010, while serving 
bravely in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Paktika Province, 
Afghanistan. He was serving his third tour of duty.

A native Hoosier, Kenny attended Lewis Cass Junior-Senior High School 
in Walton, IN. His principal described Kenny as ''one of those kids who 
always worked hard to get things done.''

Staff Sergeant McAninch enlisted in the U.S. Army in 2005. A 
decorated soldier, his awards include the Joint Service Commendation 
Medal, Joint Service Achievement Medal, Joint Meritorious Unit Award, 
Army Good Conduct Medal, and the National Defense Service Medal.

Staff Sergeant McAninch was a devoted husband, father, and son. I 
join his family and friends in mourning his death. He is survived by 
his wife, Shawnna McAninch; his children, Jeremiah, Braxton, Brayden, 
Colby, and Shyanne; his father, Marvin McAninch of Logansport, IN; and 
his mother, Cheryl Nance of Peru, IN.

We take pride in the example of this American hero, even as we 
struggle to express our sorrow over this loss. We cherish the legacy of 
his service and his life.

As I search for words to honor this fallen soldier, I recall 
President Lincoln's words to the families of the fallen at Gettysburg: 
''We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this 
ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have 
consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world 
will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never 
forget what they did here.''

It is my sad duty to enter the name of SSG Kenneth K. McAninch in the 
official Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to our country and 
for his commitment to freedom, democracy, and peace.
