# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e5d620fc3ed880331f0d6a94b0f2e0a7`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 5 December 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. I want to thank my Republican 
colleagues for bringing this motion to instruct to the floor. It is 
important to me as a member of the Armed Services Committee, as a 31-
year veteran of the Army National Guard, and as the parent of a soldier 
who has served in Iraq, with another son soon to deploy to Iraq. 
Additionally, our family is grateful to have two additional sons 
serving in the military.

This motion to instruct is straightforward. It simply confirms that 
the representatives of the American people understand the consequences 
of our actions in Iraq and that we are not going to pull the rug out 
from underneath our brave soldiers. Congress should never act to 
undermine our troops and jeopardize the success they are achieving in 
Iraq today. Unfortunately, the strategy of precipitous withdrawal and 
defeat some continue to advocate has brought us to this point.

The Democrat leadership has continued to propose legislation that 
aims to micromanage our military leaders and tie their hands as they 
stop the terrorists. This undermines the extraordinary gains by our 
troops that I have seen on my eight visits to Iraq, which has been 
possible by the surge led by General David Petraeus. We must not forget 
al Qaeda spokesman Zawahiri has declared Iraq and Afghanistan the 
central front in the global war on terrorism, and we must succeed in 
stopping terrorists overseas and protecting American families at home.



This motion to instruct is a right opportunity for this body, for the 
leadership here in Washington to say with one voice that we are 
invested in success, that our aim is not to leave behind a failed Iraqi 
state where safe havens for terrorists will threaten American families. 
Our military should be able to count on our unwavering support for the 
fight in which they are engaged.

Our colleagues in the Senate have already acted with near unanimous 
support, 94-3, to include the language of this motion in their 
authorization. Only three Senators voted against this, showing a 
unified United States Senate. They have gone on record recognizing that 
a failed state in Iraq would have dire consequences for the safety and 
security of the region, for American families, and for our allies 
around


the world. It is imperative that we follow their lead.

Again, I want to thank the ranking member, Duncan Hunter, for his 
leadership. He is a dedicated veteran and father of an Iraq veteran. 
And additionally, I want to thank my Republican colleagues for bringing 
this motion to the floor. I encourage all of my colleagues to support 
it and send a bipartisan message to our enemies and allies that we are 
committed to victory in Iraq and ensuring that Iraq does not become a 
failed state and a safe haven for terrorists.