---
---

# VETERANS' HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `e5e5f8421b7eca6cd0387a03042131de`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
chairman.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to give voice to a terrible injustice. On 
any given night in America, nearly 200,000 veterans go homeless and 
twice as many will go homeless over the course of the year. This is 
shameful.

In my district in southeastern Pennsylvania, this problem is very 
real. There are more than 3,300 homeless veterans in Pennsylvania and 
at least 550 in the greater Philadelphia area alone. These are veterans 
who saw combat in World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq.

As someone who spent 10 years in the Army and walked the streets of 
Baghdad, I cannot stand by while more of my fellow soldiers go hungry 
and seek shelter. Over the last 3 years, as many as 1,300 veterans from 
Iraq and Afghanistan have participated in homeless outreach programs by 
the VA in their community. Who knows how many others went without help.

That's why, Mr. Speaker, I proudly support the Veterans' Health Care 
Improvement Act, which looks after those who have sacrificed so much 
for our country.



This much-needed bill makes permanent a program to identify at-risk 
servicemembers to prevent them from


ever becoming homeless once they leave the military. With the rapidly 
increasing number of women veterans, the bill also instructs the VA to 
make their programs for homeless veterans more accommodating for female 
veterans.

I was proud to introduce these important provisions, and I thank the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Filner), and the gentleman from Maine 
(Mr. Michaud), for bringing this bill to the floor and their leadership 
on this issue. These brave American veterans, who once faced down our 
enemies, shouldn't have to face one more night out on the street.