# CONSOLIDATED SECURITY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `e5e7c902d2540a8605fdee7448f6b95b`
`Mr. WAXMAN â€” 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, this Congress, the House and Senate have 
passed important Federal contracting reforms, but neither body has 
assembled them into a comprehensive package. The ''Clean Contracting 
Act'' in title 8 of the National Defense Authorization Act consolidates 
these provisions into a single, comprehensive reform measure.

I want to particularly thank Chairman Skelton for working with me to 
help bring these provisions to the House floor today. He has been a 
tremendous partner in the fight to root out waste, fraud, and abuse.

The Clean Contracting Act requires agencies to enhance competition in 
contracting, limit the use of abuse-prone contracts, start the effort 
to rebuild the federal acquisition workforce, strengthen important 
anti-fraud measures, and increase transparency in federal contracting.

The provisions in the act respond to procurement abuses that the 
Oversight Committee, the Armed Services Committee, and other committees 
have identified in hearings and investigative reports. These egregious 
procurement practices have occurred in Iraq, in the response to 
Hurricane Katrina, and at the Department of Homeland Security--and they 
need to be halted. They may enrich companies like Halliburton and 
Blackwater, but have squandered billions of dollars that belong to the 
taxpayer.

This legislation says that Congress is serious about stopping waste, 
fraud, and abuse.

One important provision would limit the length of no-bid contracts 
awarded in emergencies to one year. This provision would end the abuses 
that occurred after Hurricane Katrina, when many ''emergency'' 
contracts were allowed to continue for many years.

Another provision would require regulations and reporting on the use 
of cost-plus contracts, which provide contractors with little incentive 
to control costs. Spending under this type of contract grew over 75 
percent between 2000 and 2005.

Another important provision would prohibit contractors from charging 
excessive mark-up charges for work done by subcontractors. This would 
prevent the infamous ''blue roof'' scandal following Hurricane Katrina, 
where taxpayers were charged almost $2500 dollars apiece for something 
that actually cost $300.

Other vital provisions in this bill would prevent the abuse of 
interagency contracts, as was the case at Abu Ghraib, where 
interrogators were hired using an Interior Department contract for 
information technology.

The bill also includes a modified version of a provision which 
recently passed the House under suspension of the rules. It is based on 
a bill authored by Rep. Maloney and requires the development of a 
database of suspension and debarment information.

My only regret is that some of the other key reforms passed by the 
House were not included in the final version of the legislation. I am 
disappointed that the House and Senate compromise does not include a 
ban on private interrogators in U.S. military detention facilities or 
mandate congressional approval for any security pact with Iraq that is 
negotiated by the President. I am also greatly disappointed the bill, 
which authorizes some additional funding for the war in Iraq, fails to 
set a timeline for the withdrawal of our troops.

Still, I urge members to support this bill because the Clean 
Contracting Act provisions will make a fundamental difference in the 
way our government operates and begin to restore taxpayer confidence.