---
---

# WEAPON SYSTEMS ACQUISITION REFORM ACT OF 2009
## `e5e96deb1bf86938ceaa57eb8faad215`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 6 May 2009`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I have come to the floor to speak about a 
couple of issues that relate to the Department of Defense and to 
defense issues, but I want to especially today talk about the work that 
has been done by my colleague, Senator Levin, and my colleague from 
Arizona. The work they have done on procurement reform is very 
important.

I listened to some of the presentations earlier today by Senator 
Levin and Senator McCain about the overruns in various weapons 
programs, the cost overruns, and the significant dislocations with 
respect to decisions that have been made or not made with certain 
weapons programs.

I think there is real need for reform, and the bill they have brought 
to the floor of the Senate is a great service to the American taxpayer. 
I think it is also a great service to our defense structure. We have 
limited funds. We have to use them effectively. We have to fund weapons 
programs that are essential to the defense strength of this country. 
That is what both of my colleagues are saying. And they are saying, 
when we have a program that has outlived its usefulness, a program that 
has cost overruns that never stop and seem completely out of control, 
we have to address that and deal with it and respond to it.

So we have been going through a long period here of unbelievable cost 
overruns in some programs without much notice and without much action 
attending to it. I think my two colleagues are doing a great service. I 
hope, as I know the chairman does, we will be able to move quickly to 
address this legislation, perhaps without even amendments, and go 
forward and get it through the Senate. We will have done, I think, a 
great service to strengthen our defense capability and protect the 
American taxpayer at the same time.















Defense Duplication


Mr. President, I want to raise an issue that does not directly relate 
to this bill but relates to all the considerations of this bill because 
it is a follow-on and one I think we will deal with in the next bill, 
defense authorization. That bill will also be chaired on the floor of 
the Senate by my colleague, Senator Levin. It deals with the issue of 
duplication.


In addition to contract and procurement reform--in this case 
procurement reform--the issue of duplication of our services at the 
Department of Defense is a very important issue. Every service wants to 
do everything. That is just the way it is. I wish to give an example of 
something I have been working on, so far unsuccessfully, but I am going 
to raise it and push it during Defense authorization because it relates 
to the very same things that my colleagues have talked about today.

These are pictures of unmanned aerial vehicles; UAVs they are called. 
It is sort of the new way to fly, particularly over a battlefield for 
reconnaissance purposes and so on. Many of us are familiar with what is 
called the Predator B, which the Air Force refers to as the Reaper. 
That is this airplane. The Predator B is used extensively and has been 
used extensively in the war theater in Afghanistan and in Iraq and in 
that region. It is an unmanned aerial vehicle, unmanned aerial aircraft 
without a pilot. The pilot sits on the ground someplace in a little 
thing that looks almost like a trailer house, and they are flying this 
aircraft. In some cases, the pilot is 6,000, 8,000 miles away from 
where the aircraft is, flying it at a duty station perhaps at a 
National Guard base or somewhere else.

But, anyway, the Air Force has what is called the Predator. That is 
built by General Atomics, and it is a worthwhile program that has 
provided great service to us and to our country in terms of our defense 
capability.

This, by the way, is called the Sky Warrior. This is the Reaper. It 
is owned by the Air Force. This is the Sky Warrior. That is the U.S. 
Army.

Why does it look alike? Well, it is because it is made by the same 
company. It is made to different specifications because the Army wants 
a slightly different vehicle, but the Air Force has the Predator B, and 
the Army has the Sky Warrior.

Why does the Army have a Sky Warrior? Well, because they want to run 
their own reconnaissance. So what we have in these circumstances is, 
the Army, in the next 5 years, wants to spend $800 million to buy more 
than 100 of the Sky Warriors, and eventually they want to have 500 Sky 
Warriors. The Air Force wants to spend $1.5 billion to buy 150 more 
Predators, Predator Bs.

Here is what the Predator B and the Sky Warrior look like. As you can 
see, they are nearly identical. Both carry intelligence, surveillance, 
and reconnaissance sensors so they can find and track targets on the 
ground. Both can fire missiles so they can hit a target they might 
find, both can fly over 25,000 feet high for more than 30 hours which 
gives them range and endurance, but it seems to me a complete 
duplication of effort.

We are not talking about just the UAV mission itself; we are talking 
about the duplication of acquisition programs--engineering, 
contracting. I don't understand it.

For years, the Air Force used U-2s, F-15s, F-16s, even B-52s from 
time to time to provide surveillance, intelligence, reconnaissance, and 
close air support for the Army. They used manned aircraft to provide 
all of those services for the U.S. Army. It is not clear why that ought 
to be different just because we are using unmanned aircraft.

The Army says they plan to assign each set of 12 Sky Warriors to a 
specific combat unit. Of course, since most combat units in the Army 
are at their home base at any given time, most Sky Warriors will be 
based in the United States or perhaps Europe at any given time. The Air 
Force has a different approach. They have a streamlined operation 
concept. They have been working nearly 8 years in almost constant 
combat operations, and almost every single


Air Force Predator is at this point in the Central Command of 
Operations--CENTCOM.

It seems to me the services ought to do what they do best. What the 
Army does best is fight a war on the ground. What the Air Force does 
best is to provide timely intelligence, surveillance, and 
reconnaissance for the troops on the ground and to attack ground 
targets from the air. That is what each does best.

However, the Army wants to do exactly what the Air Force does and 
have a separate acquisition program to do so.

So we ought to be asking the question: Does this make sense to send 
thousands of airmen to Iraq and Afghanistan to be truck drivers in Army 
convoys while the Army plans to have thousands of troops operating 
unmanned aircraft? Yes, that is happening. Putting all of our large 
UAVs under the Air Force will result, in my judgment, in streamlined 
and more efficient acquisition of UAVs and allow the Army to 
concentrate its manpower on Army tasks.

Let me be clear. There are some surveillance--at low-altitude, over-
the-battlefield surveillance with unmanned aircraft--that are just fine 
at 500 feet, 1,000 feet with various kinds of unmanned devices. I 
understand why the Army would want to operate that, and should. 
However, I don't understand the Army flying at 25,000 or 30,000 feet, a 
duplicate mission for which the Air Force exists.

So given the budget problems we face, with nondiscretionary and 
discretionary spending, we can't afford duplication of effort.

A few years ago, the Air Force proposed that it be designated as the 
executive agent for all medium- and high-altitude unmanned aerial 
vehicles. That made sense to me. The Air Force is the logical choice. 
They already have the infrastructure to deliver that combat power.

In 2007, by the way, the Pentagon's Joint Requirements Oversight 
Council endorsed that proposal, but the proposal didn't go anywhere 
because of intense opposition from the Army and those who support the 
Army in this Congress.

I don't think this should be an intramural debate between supporting 
the Army and supporting the Air Force. I support both. I want the Army 
to be equipped in an unbelievably important way to do its mission, and 
I want the Air Force to be similarly equipped. I just don't want the 
taxpayer to be paying for duplication of effort, and I don't want every 
service to believe it should do everything because that clearly is a 
duplication of effort.

The legislation that is before us today is about procurement reform, 
procurement reform itself. It does not address this specific issue of 
duplication, but this issue is certainly the second cousin to it. We 
will be discussing this when we get to the Defense authorization bill, 
and that, too, is a very important part of how we can strengthen our 
defense; how do we make certain the taxpayers are getting their money's 
worth; and how do we make certain the men and women who serve in 
defense of this country are equipped to do what they do best.

I raise this issue of duplication because I think it is so important 
that we find a way to begin to unravel the unmistakable duplication 
that exists in so many areas within the Pentagon. This is one that 
should be self-evident to virtually everyone.

I wish to mention as well today the issue that will also come up in 
Defense authorization that is the first or second cousin to procurement 
reform, and that is contracting reform. I know my colleague from 
Michigan and my colleague from Arizona are very concerned about this as 
well, and I look forward to working with them on the Defense 
authorization bill.

A couple of points about contract reform: I have held, I believe, 18 
hearings in the Democratic Policy Committee that I chair on contracting 
issues over a good number of years now. I wish to show a couple of 
photographs that describe some of the unbelievable circumstances that 
have existed and that we must take steps to correct, and I know my 
colleagues, the chairman and ranking member, are already doing so.

This, by the way, deals with contracting. I understand during wartime 
there are going to be contracts sometimes that are let without a lot of 
scrutiny and somebody is going to make a lot of money, or perhaps 
somebody doesn't quite measure up, but this is different. I think we 
have seen some of the greatest waste, fraud, and abuse in the history 
of this country in contracting.

This is a picture of a couple million dollars wrapped in Saran wrap, 
a couple of million dollars in cash. Franklin Willis is the guy with 
the white shirt. He is holding one of these. This happens to be in a 
palace in Iraq, one of Saddam's palaces. I assume the chairman of the 
committee has been in one of Saddam's palaces. I have been in one of 
Saddam's palaces in Baghdad. So we took over all of those palaces for 
headquarters, or a good many of them. This happens to be a couple of 
million dollars in cash put on a table because the contractor was 
coming to pick up the cash. Franklin Willis--a very respected guy, by 
the way, who went over from the Federal Government to work on these 
issues and testified in one of my hearings--said the word was to 
contractors: Bring a bag because we pay cash.


We were contracting for everything in Iraq. Just all kinds--they had 
over 130,000 contractors, I believe, at one point. So the company who 
was going to pick up this cash, by the way, was later indicted in 
criminal court. But Franklin Willis was showing us how reimbursements 
were made in Iraq. This is bills wrapped in Saran wrap. He would say 
from time to time he would see people playing football catch with 100-
dollar bills wrapped in Saran wrap waiting for the contractors to bring 
a bag, to pick up a couple million dollars on this day.

It is not an isolated problem that the contractor that was going to 
show up to pick up this money was later convicted--indicted and 
convicted--in a U.S. court for stealing millions of taxpayers' dollars. 
Franklin Willis said it was just like the old Wild West. That is what 
he said to us: It was like the Wild West. Bring a bag. We have cash.

So during this period of time, in Baghdad, as they began to try to 
set up a provisional government--which was the U.S. Government trying 
to set up a government, and we sent Ambassador Bremer over to set up a 
government--during that time, we know that pallets of cash were shipped 
to Iraq. This cash left the Federal Reserve Bank in New York. This 
pallet, each pallet, contains 640 bundles of 1,000-dollar bills and 
weighs 1,500 pounds. They sent 484 of these pallets to Iraq on C-130s. 
That is more than 363 tons of cash that was sent to Iraq in C-130s, 
totaling $12 billion. Think of that: $12 billion with reports of 
distributing cash onto the back of pickup trucks. Do you wonder why we 
were stolen blind?

A woman who has had a substantial amount of experience who has never 
gotten her due, but one of the most courageous women I have met in 
Washington, DC, Bunny Greenhouse, and for her testimony and for her 
courage she lost her job. Here is what she said. She was the former 
chief contracting officer at the Corps of Engineers. She was the top 
civilian working for the Army Corps of Engineers, and she was in the 
room when the logcap project was negotiated.

Let me describe to you what she said. This is the top civilian 
official in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. She had 25 years of great 
service to our country with two masters degrees, unbelievable 
qualifications, and performance appraisals that said she was 
outstanding every single time--until she spoke publicly.

Here is what she said:




 I can unequivocally state that the abuse related to the 


 contracts awarded to Kellogg, Brown & Root--


A subsidiary of Halliburton--



 represents the most blatant and improper contract abuse I 


 have witnessed during the course of my professional career.


For that, this woman was demoted and lost her job; for the courage to 
speak out, she lost her job. Pretty unbelievable. This is an 
extraordinary woman.

We have seen from all of these circumstances unbelievable waste in 
contracting. It is not just--it is what Bunnatine Greenhouse said, the 
way the contracts were negotiated. She said they were illegal and so 
on.

Let me give an example, and I could give 100 examples. This shows $40 
million spent on a prison in Iraq they


called the whale. This is when most of the money had already been 
spent. You can see there is virtually nothing done. The Parsons 
Corporation got that money. This now sits empty, never having been 
used. A top floor was never finished. The U.S. Government says: Well, 
we gave it to the Iraqis.

The Iraqi Government says: Are you kidding me? We wouldn't take that 
in a million years. We don't want the prison. We would not use the 
prison. It was never given to us.

So $40 million was spent of the taxpayers' money. Procurement reform 
and contractor reform are all related. I don't want to come and provide 
a message that steps in any way on anything that the chairman is doing 
on procurement reform because that is critically important.

We have to follow it with its first cousin, contract reform. The 
stories are so legend. In this photo is a young man who was killed. He 
was a Ranger and a Green Beret. He was electrocuted while taking a 
shower. This is his mother Cheryl. He was electrocuted because KBR got 
the contract for wiring facilities in Iraq and didn't do a good job. He 
was killed in a shower. Another man was power washing a Jeep or humvee 
and got electrocuted. The Army said: We think he took a radio or an 
electrical device into the shower. But he didn't.

It is not just this, but it is providing water to military bases that 
was more contaminated than the Euphrates River.

I will be on the floor when we come to defense authorization with a 
good number of amendments on contracting reform because we have to put 
a stop to this. It has gone on way too long.

Let me finish by coming back to where I started, and that is the 
issue of procurement reform. Our colleagues on the Defense 
Authorization Committee are trying to deal with virtually unlimited 
wants and resources. That is not new. We understand the problems that 
creates. So they have decided they have to put together procurement 
reform legislation. It is so important to this country to get this done 
and to get it right. Procurement reform is essential. It is the 
foundation of fixing the problems that exist with respect to these 
major weapons programs.

Then, I hope we can segue into contracting reform and the issues of 
duplication, on which I wish to work with the chairman and ranking 
member. I thank Senators Levin and McCain for their leadership. I 
requested that I be made a cosponsor of the procurement reform 
legislation. I look forward to visiting and working with them on 
amendments on contracting reform in the coming month or two, when we 
get to the defense authorization.

I yield the floor.