---
---

# None
## `e5ebe4ab66dccbf19d07eec460439c79`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 29 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, I can tell you right now that a 
number of those issues that we have been talking about over the last 
couple of 30-Something hours that we have had here on the floor, and we 
thank the Democratic leadership for allowing us to have this, this is a 
very pivotal time. And I always share with the Members, even though we 
come to the capital, Mr. Speaker, from our districts on a weekly basis, 
work together here on this highly secured complex, the sun rises and 
sets every day in this beautiful capital city as we look over the 
capital Mall, and sometimes we take the very freedom that others have 
provided for granted and the opportunity, Mr. Speaker, to lead.

I think when historians start to look at this time when there are two 
wars going on, when you have millions of Americans without health care, 
when you have Gulf States that are there that feel that they have been 
forgotten, when you have veterans in the heartland of America and urban 
America still sharing some of the same wounds of a lack of leadership 
on behalf of the Congress, when you have veterans that are waiting 3 
months to see the ophthalmologist, and when you have veterans clinics, 
VA hospitals and clinics, some clinics that are only open twice a month 
with a staff that rotates between that region that serves those 
veterans, people will look back and say, what happened in the 109th 
Congress or what happened in 110th Congress? Who stood up? Who stood up 
on behalf of the American people?

I have a great deal of respect for the President and the Commander in 
Chief, because he is the President and Commander in Chief, period. That 
is where it is. I am an American. I am not an enlisted man, but I am a 
Member of Congress, and I feel that the office deserves the respect.

I also believe that the American people deserve, Mr. Murphy, the same 
level of respect or greater. And the great thing about our democracy, 
like I said, we celebrate the very freedom that others have provided 
us. Some of those paid the ultimate sacrifice for that to happen. Some 
are sitting in wheelchairs right now. Some are forever mentally wounded 
or injured by the whole experience in providing the kind of freedom 
that they provided for us. Some of us take for granted that we have 
veterans, some that are going into VA hospitals that are sitting there 
practically all day for mental health counseling. Some are not 
eligible. Some are still fighting for full benefits. And over the 
years, I know of some of my constituents all the way from the Korean 
War who are still fighting for full benefits to be granted by the 
Veterans Administration, seeing these individuals in the state that 
they are in now, under years of a Congress that has not paid attention.

And just a little history lesson here, I will just share with you, 
the chairman, I believe, in the 109th, the 108th Congress, the 
Republican chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee went against the 
Republican leadership saying, I believe this is what we should do on 
behalf of the veterans. I believe that they deserve it. And he was 
removed as chairman of that committee.

Those days are gone now. We are in control. We are going to stand up 
on their behalf.

I am just saying I don't want to point out the fact that the 
President did not mention anything about veterans, just that it is a 
bad thing. It is a bad thing. I think he should have mentioned it, 
especially at a time of war. But I want to make sure those veterans 
know, Mr. Speaker, that we are not going to leave them behind, that we 
are not going to let their memory kind of fade off, their contributions 
fade off into the sunset because the President did not prioritize 
enough to even put two words together to thank our veterans, or just 
''veterans,'' period, just one word. Because he left that out of his 
speech doesn't necessarily mean that this House of Representatives is 
going to leave those veterans behind. So that is the reason why we 
mentioned it. That is the reason why we raise up the Katrina victims 
and those families that are still living through the nightmare.

And, Mr. Murphy, we are not even focusing on the whole family 
experience. I mean, think of those families of veterans that are out 
there. And the reason why I am mentioning the whole mental piece is 
because, when I traveled to Iraq, I can tell you I used to be a State 
trooper. I have seen some things in my 5 years being with the Florida 
Highway Patrol. I am pretty sure in one tour in Iraq, a young man or 
young woman or a middle-aged gentleman or what have you, when you see 
that kind of activity, it is going to affect you. You are going to need 
the kind of the assistance that this country should provide because you 
volunteered, taking your words, to fight on behalf of this country. So 
it is very, very important.

And those families that are having to live with those family members 
that are trying to wrestle with those issues, some of those issues 
don't make the local news, but they live it. Children are subjected to 
it, and many of our veterans need counseling when they come back.



And that is one of the hidden issues that is in this whole issue as 
we start talking about not leaving our veterans behind. We have plans 
to do that. We started this discussion just talking about the 
President's budget, about making sure that this is reflected in the 
President's budget.

Before I yield back to you in like 30 seconds, the President is going 
to go to Illinois tomorrow, and he is going to be in New York after 
that, visiting, pushing his economic plan. I can tell you right now, I 
wish I had an envelope, but I remember Johnnie Carson used to hold an 
envelope to his head and say a word, and I would say make tax breaks 
permanent for the superwealthy.

You know, I am pretty sure that is somewhere in that envelope. Even 
though we are going to go around, we are going to go to Caterpillar in 
Illinois and talk about trade and how the economy works, and then he is 
going to go over to New York and talk a little bit about the economy 
and how strong, this, that and the other. But in the end game, it is 
going to be about protecting the very individuals that have been 
rewarded and protected at a time of war, to make it permanent, so that 
the middle class will not have the benefits that they need.

So we highlight these things as a forecast of saying that there is 
some room for the American people, everyday Joe and Sue, and those 
individuals that are punching in and punching out every day, for those 
individuals that are trying to make it to the next level that there is 
something there to assist them.