# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `e5ec57417e20d883257747fe47dd51d9`
`Ms. PELOSI — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Missouri for 
yielding, and I want to express the appreciation of so many in this 
Congress and this country to him for his tremendous leadership. For 30 
years, he has been a great champion for our men and women in uniform; 
for the quality of their lives and their families as they serve our 
country; for their readiness as they prepare to go to war; for their 
well-being as they fight for our country; for his appreciation of the 
sacrifice that they and their families are willing to make.

Thank you, Mr. Skelton, for being such a great leader, and thank you 
for giving us this opportunity today to speak on behalf of the American 
people, to take a step to end the war in Iraq and to have a vision of a 
strategic plan for stability in the Middle East.

Your bill is excellent and your timing, Mr. Skelton, is perfect, 
because today the Bush administration released a progress report on the 
Iraq benchmarks required by the supplemental appropriations bill passed 
in May. The report makes clear that not even the White House can 
conclude that there has been significant progress on the Warner 
resolution benchmarks.

This is hardly surprising, given what is publicly available each day 
in the media: truck bombs killing scores of people in the markets; the 
supposedly secure Green Zone is rocked by a 30-inute mortar and rocket 
barrage; despite 30,000 additional American troops to increase 
security, Iraqi leaders are urging their people to arm themselves for 
their own protection; legislation to make the Iraqi political process 
more inclusive is stalled in the Iraqi legislature; and the cost of the 
war in precious lives and wounded American heroes continues to rise. 
Since the surge began, we have lost nearly 600 American troops.

The benchmarks that are being reported on today were endorsed by 
President Bush and the Government of Iraq to measure political 
reconciliation and the promotion of security in Iraq. In the 5th year 
of the war, the President's strategy has failed to meet those key 
benchmarks.

President Bush continues to urge patience, but what is needed and 
what the American people are demanding is a new direction. Remaining 
bogged down in a sectarian civil war in Iraq continues an unacceptable 
strain on our military and serves as an effective recruiting tool for 
al Qaeda. Reports about the resilience of al Qaeda in Iraq are 
alarming, but assessments that the global al Qaeda network is 
reconstituting its capabilities describes a far greater threat.

The war is not making our military stronger to protect our interests, 
the American people safer or the Middle East more secure. It prevents a 
refocusing of our efforts on the real war on terrorism in places like 
Afghanistan, and it hinders the development of a new direction strategy 
for greater stability in the Middle East.

As General Batiste has said, ''Iraq is distracting America from what 
should be the focus of main effort. It is in America's best interests 
to rethink our national strategy, deliberately disengage from Iraq, 
refit and rearm our military, get serious about homeland security, and 
prepare to win the next phase of the struggle against worldwide Islamic 
extremism.''

The American people see the danger of clinging to an untenable 
situation in Iraq. That is why by large margins they favor a 
redeployment of our troops. Passage of Chairman Skelton's bipartisan 
bill will reflect the will of the American people and reaffirm the 
judgment of the House that the redeployment of our troops is a central 
element and an effective way forward in Iraq.

We will repeat that judgment legislatively as often as necessary, 
hopefully with an increasing level of support from our Republican 
colleagues, until pressure from the American people causes the 
President to change his mind and his policies.

To those who urge that we wait until September, I say that it has 
been 4/1/2/ years and half a trillion dollars, at least. We have 
already waited too long. The troops in their third and fourth tours in 
Iraq, those who have been so grievously wounded and the families of 
those who have died, deserve far better than that.

After more than 3,600 lives have been lost to a flawed strategy, we 
have a responsibility to create a new direction. After spending $329 
million every day, $329 million every day on the war in Iraq, on a war 
that is not making our country safer, we have an obligation to change 
course. After 5 years of a failed policy in Iraq, we have a duty, not 
just to voice our opposition, but to vote to end the war.

Chairman Skelton's bipartisan bill offers a step we can take today 
toward bringing the troops home, to creating a strategic vision for 
stability in the Middle East and for beginning to rearm our military.

Let us pass this bill and those that will follow in the coming weeks 
and provide the new direction on Iraq that the American people demand 
and that is so urgently needed. I urge a ''yes'' vote on the Skelton 
bill.