# None
## `e619fa931e9c2e34414579fb4daf8033`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida â€” 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, as Chairman of the Commission 
on Security and Cooperation in Europe and Special Representative on 
Mediterranean Affairs of the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe Parliamentary Assembly, I rise today in strong support of The 
Iraqi Refugee and Internally Displaced Persons Humanitarian Assistance, 
Resettlement, and Security Act of 2008 (H.R. 6496), a bill which I 
reintroduced yesterday with a group of 11 bipartisan original 
cosponsors.

The bill I am introducing today addresses the impending humanitarian 
crisis and potential security break-down as a result of the mass influx 
of Iraqi refugees into neighboring countries, and the growing 
internally displaced population in Iraq. The bill increases accountable 
assistance to these populations and their host countries, as well as 
seeking to facilitate the resettlement of Iraqis at risk.

The plight of Iraqi refugees and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) 
is worsening by the day. It is heartbreaking to hear the stories of 
families who fled for their safety, are now unable to work and have 
subsequently depleted their savings in order to survive.

Madam Speaker, I would like to announce the support that I have 
received for this very important legislation from prominent non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) and religious groups. To date, the 
following organizations have endorsed this legislation: The Campaign 
for Innocent Victims of Conflict (CIVIC), Church World Service, 
Congregation of Divine Providence of San Antonio, Education for Peace 
in Iraq (EPIC), International Rescue Committee, the Leadership 
Conference on Women Religious, the Maryknoll Office for Global 
Concerns, Mercy Center, Mercy Corps, NETWORK, Open Society Policy 
Center, Pax Christi USA: National Catholic Peace Movement, the 
Presbyterian Church (USA), Refugees International, Sisters of Charity 
of New York, Sisters of Mercy of the Americas, Sisters of St. Joseph NW 
PA, and Save the Children.

I thank all of these organizations who have endorsed my legislation 
and who every single day work tirelessly to make this world a better 
place. Without their commitment to helping the people devastated by 
this crisis, the situation in the region would be even worse.

Finally, I would like to thank Congressman Dingell for his continued 
leadership in the House of Representatives on this issue and for his 
help in drafting this legislation as well as the other original co-
sponsors supporting this bill. As I have said on many occasions, this 
must not be a partisan issue, but rather Congress and the 
Administration have an obligation to work together before the Iraqi 
refugee crisis further destabilizes the region.

I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation, which 
will provide much needed relief for Iraqi refugees and IDPs. I urge the 
leadership of the House to support this bill and bring it to the floor 
for its expeditious consideration.
