# HONORING COLONEL DAVID F. EVERETT
## `e61e991d4f41eadb19b30d9f70f3ce74`
`Mrs. LOWEY — 20 April 2010`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Colonel 
David F. Everett whose commitment to military and civilian service will 
be honored at the Jewish Board of Family and Community Services in New 
York on April 21, 2010.

Col. Everett's decorated military career includes Operation Desert 
Storm in 1991, where, as a Major, he volunteered for active duty and 
served in Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Kuwait. In 2005, as a Colonel, he 
volunteered for service in Operation Iraqi Freedom, where he was 
assigned to the Civilian Police Assistance Training Team. While in 
Iraq, Mr. Everett was the principal Coalition Forces advisor to the 
Director of International Affairs of Iraq's Ministry of Interior. In 
2009, David again volunteered for service in Operation Enduring Freedom 
and was deployed to Afghanistan as a Senior Military Advisor to the 
Chief of Police of Kabul.

Col. Everett was twice awarded the Bronze Star for his service in 
Operations Desert Storm and Iraqi Freedom as well as the Department of 
Defense Meritorious Service Medal for his service in Afghanistan. Col. 
Everett serves on the Service Academy Review Board for my congressional 
office where he works with young people in the 18th congressional 
district of New York who apply for nominations to the U.S. service 
academies. He has helped enrich the lives of countless youth seeking 
the opportunity to serve their country and become active citizens.

In 1981, Col. Everett became a Big Brother with the Jewish Board of 
Family and Community Services, dedicating his time to mentoring youth. 
Now, Col. Everett is Vice President of the Board and has been a trustee 
for nearly 20 years.

I urge you to join me in honoring this man who truly embodies the 
kind of service that makes our country great.
