---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e629f64c1fac317141132d57edef6a45`
`Mr. DELAHUNT — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. DELAHUNT. Madam Speaker, ''this is a dangerously wrong-headed 
strategy that will drive America deeper into an unwinnable swamp at a 
great cost. And if it's carried out it represents the most dangerous 
foreign policy blunder in this country since Vietnam.''

This assessment the Bush escalation policy was made by the Republican 
Senator from Nebraska, Chuck Hagel--a decorated Vietnam veteran who 
originally supported the invasion of Iraq.

And I concur with his observation. But his conclusion should come as 
no surprise. After all, this administration's Iraq policy has been a 
series of mistakes and bad choices from the beginning.

The Bush/Cheney team was obsessed with Iraq. In fact, according to 
former Secretary of the Treasury Paul O'Neill, their very first 
National Security Council meeting focused on Saddam and Iraq. Just days 
after President Bush was inaugurated. And a map, noting Iraqi oilfields 
and potential bidders for oil contracts, was presented for review. That 
was in February 2001. Months before 9/11.

We all remember that awful day in September 2001. When America was 
attacked by al Qaeda. Not Iraq. But by al Qaeda. Nevertheless, almost 
immediately, plans for attacking Iraq were initiated. With the Vice 
President as its most vigorous advocate. Secretary Powell is reported 
to have observed that the Vice President had ''the fever''--war fever.

Former counterterrorism czar Dick Clarke has described how, even as 
the smoke was still rising from 9/11, the administration began looking 
for ways to use it to attack Iraq.

The American people were told that Saddam Hussein possessed weapons 
of mass destruction. That he was a clear and imminent threat. That he 
was an ally of al Qaeda. That if we did not invade Iraq, there could be 
mushroom clouds over American cities.

None of that was true. To the contrary, there was plenty evidence 
that the secular Baathists of Saddam Hussein's regime and the religious 
fanatics of Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda were rivals. In fact bin Laden 
had publicly condemned Saddam as an apostate who had corrupted Islam 
and repressed Muslims. There was little evidence that Saddam's regime 
possessed nuclear or biological weapons, or--even if it did--that it 
would share such materials with an uncontrollable group of apocalyptic 
terrorists like al Qaeda.

But the administration did not listen to those who knew what they 
were talking about. Professionals like Greg Thielmann, the Director of 
the strategic, proliferation and military issues office in the State 
Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research. He told me personally 
that in his professional opinion, after years of studying the issue, 
Saddam did not have a nuclear weapons program.

Instead, the administration relied on the likes of Ahmed Chalabi. An 
embezzler who had been convicted in Jordan of bank fraud. Who is 
alleged to have provided Iran with information about U.S. troop 
movements. And who is presumably still under investigation by the FBI.

Chalabi provided so-called ''defectors'' from Iraq who--surprise, 
surprise--said exactly what the Administration wanted to hear. The most 
notorious was codenamed ''Curveball''--how appropriate--and was the 
source of the now-discredited claim about a mobile bioweapons program. 
The German intelligence agency warned that the man did not live in Iraq 
and described him as an ''out of control'' and mentally unstable 
alcoholic. It later turned out that he was the brother of one of 
Chalabi's top aides. But he was one of the primary sources for 
Secretary Powell's statement at the United Nations that convinced many 
to support the war.

Furthermore, in the lead-up to the invasion of Iraq, the 
administration told the American people that it would be easy. That we 
would be greeted as liberators. That Iraq would pay for its own 
reconstruction. And that peace and democracy would flourish.

None of that was true. The American people were sold a bill of goods. 
But those of us who raised doubts were ignored. Some even questioned 
our patriotism.

But the responsibility for this mess is not the President's alone. It 
is shared by the preceding two Congresses, which abdicated their 
constitutional responsibility to oversee and review the conduct of the 
war and the occupation. We will never know if serious oversight and 
insisting on answers over the past 4 years would have made a 
difference.

But we do know that thousands of Americans and Iraqis have died. 
Billions of American and Iraqi taxpayer dollars have been wasted. The 
Middle East is on the verge of a war that could devastate the region 
and the global economy. And terrorist groups are multiplying because of 
Iraq. Some confuse the war on Iraq with the war on terror. But that 
could not be further from reality.

The fact is that the war in Iraq has severely damaged our efforts to 
fight al Qaeda and terrorism. That's not just my judgment: that's the 
consensus judgment of U.S. intelligence agencies. In April 2006, they 
prepared a National Intelligence Estimate. It represents the consensus 
judgment of the entire U.S. intelligence community. Here's what it 
said:




 The Iraq conflict has become the ''cause celebre'' for 


 jihadists, breeding a deep resentment of U.S. involvement in 


 the Muslim world and cultivating supporters for the global 


 jihadist movement.


Meanwhile, the war in Iraq has done nothing to stop al Qaeda and its 
affiliates from launching attacks around the world. I refer you to a 
Dear Colleague letter sent by two of our Republican colleagues which 
clearly describes that reality. It includes a list of attacks that 
plainly demonstrates that terrorism is global in nature. While we are 
stuck in the sands of Iraq, radical Islamists are launching major 
assaults everywhere. Because this Administration, as a result of its 
bungled misadventure in Iraq, has hurt our efforts against terrorism.

Remember, we were attacked on September 11, not by Iraq, but by al 
Qaeda. Which was based in Afghanistan. And we responded, with worldwide 
support, by going to war against al Qaeda and liberating Afghanistan 
from al Qaeda's allies, the Taliban. But then what happened? The 
administration took its eye off the ball. And invaded Iraq. It's as if 
we had responded to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor by invading 
Mexico. Even though we had not yet defeated al Qaeda, the 
administration pulled intelligence and Special Forces assets from 
Afghanistan in order to prepare for the invasion of Iraq. Now we are in 
danger of losing Afghanistan to al Qaeda and their Taliban allies.

Enough. As Senator Hagel said, this is ''Alice in Wonderland . . . it 
is folly.'' And the American people know it. It's time to get back to 
fighting the terrorists. It's time to concentrate on victory in the war 
on terror.

Oppose the escalation. Support the resolution.