---
---

# HONORING SPC. JONATHON M. FRENCH FOR SERVICE TO OUR COUNTRY
## `e633484e0c36be78ebc4c6e0edf26202`
`Mr. STUPAK — 6 May 2010`

---


Mr. STUPAK. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor Spc. Jonathan M. French of 
Chassell, who, despite significant injuries, prevailed in his service 
to our country. Spc. French is being honored on May 15 as Grand Marshal 
in the 5th Annual Armed Forces Day Parade of Thanks in Hancock, 
Michigan. As the community pays tribute to Jonathan, I ask that the 
U.S. House of Representatives join me in honoring his service.

As a high school student at Saginaw Arthur Hill High School in 
Saginaw, Michigan, Jonathan was an avid hockey player. He continued the 
sport while attending Michigan Technological University, in Houghton, 
Michigan, where he earned a bachelor's degree in geological engineering 
as well as a master's degree in civil engineering. He went on to play 
hockey with the Portage Lake Pioneers as part of the Great Lakes Hockey 
League, which won three national championships.

Then, in 2007 Jonathan made the decision to swap hockey skates for 
combat boots, enlisting in the Michigan National Guard 1431st Engineer 
Company (Sapper). Although he was eligible for the officer training 
program, he chose to retain his enlisted status in order to fight on 
the frontlines. Shortly after enlisting, Jonathan was deployed to 
Afghanistan with his unit.

While in Afghanistan Jonathan was severely injured when a rocket 
propelled grenade exploded. Despite extensive internal and external 
injuries, Jonathan ''finished the fight'' he was engaged in--a 
testament to his Yooper fortitude. He returned home, to face a new 
fight--a fight for his life--successfully undergoing a series of 
extensive surgeries.

Jonathan is now in vocational rehabilitation and is transitioning 
back into his position as a civil engineer and project manager with the 
Baraga Telephone Company. Throughout it all, his wife Margaret, whom he 
married on June 7, 2003, has been by his side when possible and with 
him in spirit when distance separated them.

Since his decision to enlist, Jonathan has shown grace, courage, 
humility and bravery. He has continued to serve in his community, 
volunteering as a Hunter Safety instructor and mentoring local youth. 
Serving as Grand Marshal in the Parade of Thanks is a fitting tribute 
for all that Jonathan has given to his country and his community.

Madam Speaker, the Parade of Thanks is a chance to honor the men and 
women who have answered the call to serve our nation with honor and 
with dignity. Without their courage and sacrifices, the United States 
could not be the great nation we are today. Therefore, Madam Speaker, I 
ask that you and the entire U.S. House of Representatives join me in 
thanking Spc. Jonathan M. French on his commitment and service and 
applaud him on being named Grand Marshal of the Armed Forces Day Parade 
of Thanks.
