# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `e64acd94f339f1822736cb225b08ea33`
`Mr. SESSIONS â€” 21 May 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I wish to speak for a few moments 
regarding the President's remarks on national security today and about 
some national security issues in general.

At the outset, let me note that there are some points in the 
President's message I do not agree with and some points of plain fact 
he made that should help us clarify some of the issues that have been 
raised in recent debates over national security. President Obama 
endorsed the continued use of military commissions with some minor 
changes. These commissions are historic and certainly appropriate and 
have been used by nations all over the world. I will reserve judgment 
on those changes until I see the details, but the President is right 
when he states that military commissions are ''an appropriate venue for 
trying detainees for violations of the laws of war,'' though some have 
not agreed with that.

The President correctly noted: ''Military commissions have a history 
in the United States dating back to George Washington and the 
Revolutionary War.''

As the President also noted, military commissions ''allow for the 
protection of sensitive sources and methods of intelligence 
gathering.'' That is absolutely true, and it is an important principle 
in defending America. He also noted that the commissions allow ''the 
presentation of evidence gathered from the battlefield that cannot be 
effectively presented in a Federal court.''

In other words, we have strict rules of evidence in Federal courts. 
Our soldiers are in a life-and-death struggle on the battlefield. They 
are not police investigators. They are not homicide investigators. They 
can not be expected to be able to comply with every rule regarding the 
collection of evidence. Military commissions account for that 
difference.

It is also reassuring to see that President Obama has stated he will 
exercise his power as Commander in Chief to detain as war prisoners 
those al-Qaida members who continue to pose a danger to the United 
States, but who cannot be tried by a military commission. Some 
detainees may not be able to be tried by military commissions for legal 
reasons. For years, we have heard criticism from some of the fringe 
groups on the left--criticisms that have been echoed occasionally in 
this Chamber--that we must either try every enemy war prisoner or 
release them. That has never been the practice in the history of war, 
and that is not what our law says. This is a notion that cannot be 
sustained and one that would pose a threat to us if it were ever 
adopted as policy.

I am glad to see President Obama rejected that notion. As he noted in 
his remarks today:




 There may be a number of people who cannot be prosecuted 


 for past crimes, but who nonetheless pose a danger to the 


 security of the United States. Examples of that threat 


 include people who have received extensive explosives 


 training at al-Qaida training camps, commanded Taliban troops 


 in battle, expressed their allegiance to Osama bin Laden, or 


 otherwise made it clear they want to kill Americans. These 


 are people who, in effect, remain at war with the United 


 States.



 As I said, I am not going to release individuals who 


 endanger the American people. Al-Qaida terrorists and their 


 affiliates are at war with the United States and those we 


 capture--like other prisoners of war--must be prevented from 


 attacking us again.


That is fundamentally true, but some people have a confused notion 
about that.

Under the Geneva Conventions, even lawful combatants can be detained 
throughout the duration of a war. When illegal combatants conduct a war 
outside the laws of the Geneva Conventions and other treaties and laws 
that deal with the conduct of civilized warfare by deliberately and 
intentionally bombing innocent men, women and children who are 
noncombatants, those people are not entitled to be released.

President Obama also stated this morning that:




 We are not going to release anyone if it would endanger our 


 national security, nor will we release detainees within the 


 United States who endanger the American people.


Well, that is hard to know for certain. Attorney General Holder has 
talked about releasing the Uighurs, a terrorist group focused primarily 
on China. I don't believe the administration has the legal authority to 
release these detainees. Recently, according to the Los Angeles Times, 
some of the Uighurs were watching a soccer game--they allow them to 
watch television at the Guantanamo Bay facility--and a lady came on 
with short sleeves. This offended one of the Islamic Uighurs and they 
jumped up and grabbed the television and threw it on the floor. I point 
that out simply to say it is difficult to know for certain who is a 
threat. Many may well harbor a secret determination to attack America 
as soon as they are released.

I think the President has made clear that he does not have the full 
and free discretion to simply release al-Qaida members and their fellow 
travelers into the United States. Federal law expressly bars admission 
to the United States of anyone who is a member of a foreign terrorist 
organization. A Federal law we passed some years ago bars admission of 
any person who is a member of a foreign terrorist organization--pretty 
common sense, right? If you are going to have lawful immigration 
policy, you don't want terrorists to be able to immigrating into the 
country. The law bars admission of anyone who has provided material 
support to a foreign terrorist organization, and it also bars from this 
country anyone who has received military-style training at a camp 
operated by one of these terrorist organizations. The United States 
Congress decided that these individuals, ones who have ties to or have 
assisted or who have been trained by groups such as al-Qaida pose a 
danger to the American people and should not be admitted into this 
country. That congressional enactment is now the law. It is binding 
upon the President and the Attorney General, who is charged by the 
Constitution with enforcing the law.



So when the President states he will not release detainees within the 
United States, I can only state that I would expect no less. The law 
requires the President to bar admission to al-Qaida members or material 
supporters or those who trained in a terrorist camp, and I think he 
will follow that.

I note his speech also is rather selective, however, in how it cites 
to: ''The court order to release 17 Uighur detainees that took place 
last fall.''

The President referred to a court order to release these Uighurs, but 
he inexplicably failed to acknowledge what happened to that case on 
appeal. A lower district court judge ordered that they must be 
released, but the Federal appellate court reversed that order which 
would have allowed these terrorist to be released into the United 
States. This February, a couple of months ago in Kiyemba v. Obama, the 
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia held that 
the district court did not have legal authority to order the release of 
the Uighur detainees into this country. These are individuals who have 
trained in a terrorist camp, a terrorist group that is connected to al-
Qaida. A month ago, the U.S. Department of Treasury reaffirmed the 
determination that they are a terrorist organization. The appeals court 
could not have been more clear when it wrote:




 Never in the history of habeas corpus has any court thought 


 it had the power to order an alien held overseas brought into 


 the sovereign territory of a Nation and then released into 


 the general population. As we have also said, in the United 


 States, who can come in and on what terms is the exclusive 


 province of the executive branches.


There are other things the President said today that I disagree with. 
First, President Obama committed himself to banning the enhanced 
interrogation of al-Qaida detainees. I certainly oppose torture of any 
detainees. But he went on to state: ''Some have argued'' that these 
techniques ''were necessary to keep us safe,'' and he said he ''could 
not disagree more.''

Well, that is not exactly accurate, I have to tell my colleagues.

On September 6, 2006, when President Bush announced the transfer of 
14 high-value al-Qaida detainees to Guantanamo, he also described 
information that the United States had obtained from these detainees as 
a result of these enhanced interrogation programs. Most people agree 
many of these enhanced techniques clearly are not torture. Some argue 
that a few of the techniques may amount to torture; but many say they 
are not torture. We have a statute that prohibits torture and it 
defines it pretty clearly.

President Bush noted then that Abu Zubaydah was captured by U.S. 
forces several months after the September 11 attack. Several months 
later he was captured. Under interrogation he revealed that Khalid 
Shaikh Mohammed was a principal organizer of the September 11 attacks. 
Zubaydah also described a terrorist attack that al-Qaida operatives 
were planning to launch inside this country--an attack of which the 
United States had no previous knowledge. Zubaydah described the 
operatives involved in this attack and where they were located. This 
information allowed the United States to capture these terrorists, one 
while he was traveling in the United States. Under enhanced 
interrogation, Zubaydah also revealed the identity of another September 
11 plotter, Ramzi bin al Shibh, and provided information that led to 
his capture. U.S. forces then interrogated him. Information that both 
he and Zubaydah provided helped lead to the capture of Khalid Shaikh 
Mohammed, the person who orchestrated the 9/11 attacks.

Khalid Shaikh Mohammed also provided information to help stop another 
planned attack on the United States when he was interrogated. KMS 
provided information that led to the capture of a terrorist named 
Zubair, and KMS's interrogation also led to the identification and 
capture of an entire 17-member Jemaah Islamiya terrorist cell in 
Southeast Asia.

According to President Bush, information obtained as a result of 
enhanced interrogation techniques also helped stop a planned truck bomb 
attack on U.S. troops in Djibouti. Interrogation also helped stop a 
planned car bomb attack on the U.S. Embassy in Pakistan, and it helped 
stop a plot to hijack passenger planes and crash them into Heathrow 
Airport in London. On September 6, President Bush said:




 Information from terrorists in CIA custody has played a 


 role in the capture or questioning of nearly every single al-


 Qaida member or associate detained by the United States and 


 its allies.


He concluded by noting that al-Qaida members subjected to 
interrogation by U.S. forces have painted a picture of al-Qaida's 
structure and financing, communications and logistics. They identified 
al-Qaida's travel routes and safe havens and explained how al-Qaida's 
senior leadership communicates with its operatives in places such as 
Iraq. They provided information that has allowed us to make sense of 
documents and computer records that have been seized in terrorist 
raids. They have identified voices in recordings of intercepted calls 
and helped us understand the meaning of potentially critical terrorist 
communications. Were it not for the information obtained, our 
intelligence community believes that al-Qaida and its allies would have 
succeeded in launching another attack against the American homeland. By 
giving us information about terrorist plans we would not get anywhere 
else, this program has saved innocent lives.

Well, this was information obtained in the last administration as a 
result of the enhanced interrogation techniques of al-Qaida detainees. 
It allowed us to stop terrorist attacks. It allowed us to learn about 
al-Qaida communications, how it responded and operated. It even allowed 
us to capture Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the organizer of 9/11. I don't 
think anybody here can reliably contend that this information was not 
valuable. It was valuable.

We have to be careful how we conduct interrogations. I believe the 
debate over this has helped us clarify the responsibility we have to 
not participate in torture. But it does not mean that we cannot used 
enhanced techniques to move a person to the point they are providing 
information that can help protect this country. We have to be careful 
that we don't go too far. We have a history of going too far in 
reaction to matters like this.

One of the things we did is we put a wall between the CIA and the 
FBI. We said the CIA should not deal with dangerous thugs around the 
world to get information. After 9/11 it was clearly determined that 
both of those were bad ideas, and we reversed them immediately.

Nobody in this Congress should suggest that we are incapable of 
making a mistake. But we have gone 8 years without an attack. That is 
something of significance. We should be proud of that. We have men and 
women in the CIA, in the FBI, and in the U.S. military, who are putting 
their lives on the line right now. I remember being, several years ago, 
in a foreign country with a history of some violence and terrorism. A 
man from the CIA met with us. He worked 7 days a week. He had dinner 
with us at 8 o'clock. He said that was the earliest he had been off 
duty since he had been there.

They are putting their lives at risk for us, and we need to back them 
up when we can. If they make a mistake, they need to be held to account 
for it.

Madam President, I see my colleague from Texas. I assume she would 
like to make some remarks. I am not sure what the expectation is, but I 
will just wrap up and say a few more things. This is an important 
issue. I just don't believe this issue has only one side. I have to 
tell you, I believed that the President's remarks today reflected a 
view that only he had the correct view of how these matters should be 
conducted, and that everybody else who disagreed had less decency than 
he. I don't think there is any doubt that the work this Nation did 
after 9/11 stopped further attacks and saved the lives of Americans. It 
can and should be done, consistent with the laws of this country. But 
that doesn't mean that unlawful terrorists--not legitimate prisoners of 
war--cannot be subjected to interrogation. They can be and they have 
been. I trust that they will be in the future.

The President argued today that releasing the Office of Legal Counsel 
memos from the Department of Justice and exposing the details of the 
interrogation and actually tricks that CIA has used will not harm 
national security because this President has decided not to use those 
techniques. I simply point out that the war with al-Qaida will not


end with this administration, and future administrations--and even this 
administration--may need to have access to reasonable interrogation 
techniques, and providing this information is not the right thing.

It is odd that of all the material released, we have not had further 
information released from the intelligence agencies that would provide 
evidence of interrogations that have enabled us to stop other attacks 
on our country. I don't know why they would not want to release that; 
they want to release the techniques and a lot of other things.

When the President released the legal counsel's interrogation memos, 
he excised certain information from the memos and left out other memos 
entirely. These other memos describe in detail the information that was 
obtained as a result of the enhanced interrogation of al-Qaida 
detainees.

If the President really believes these interrogations don't work, I 
urge him to release these other memos, the ones Vice President Cheney 
called on to be released. If he believes in full transparency, why 
don't we see that? We know some of it because it was in President 
Bush's September 2006 remarks.

Madam President, to sum up, we are in a great national effort. We are 
now sending 17,000 more troops to Afghanistan. I think President Obama 
studied that carefully. I know he, like myself and most of us, doesn't 
look forward to having to send more troops there. He decided it was 
important for America and our allies and stability in the region and 
the world that they be sent there. This Congress supported that. So we 
continue the struggle. It is going to be a long time.

Intelligence is a critical component of our success against the war 
against the terrorists. That is what the 9/11 Commission told us. That 
is what the American people understood with clarity. Good intelligence 
prevents attacks and saves lives. Good intelligence is so valuable, it 
is almost invaluable. We have to be careful when we set about passing 
more and more rules that chill the willingness of our investigators and 
military people to do their job. As we have found from previous spasms, 
harm to our intelligence community can be the result of irrational, 
reactionary decisions. We didn't wisely consider this when we put a 
wall between the FBI and we limited the CIA in these dangerous areas of 
the world in getting information. I share a deep concern about that.

There is one more thing I will conclude with. The President talked 
repeatedly in his speech, in a most disparaging manner, about 
Guantanamo. I think inadvertently, and I am sure unintentionally, I 
believe he has cast a shadow over the fabulous men and women who serve 
us there, who participate in running a very fine facility. I would have 
appreciated it if he had taken the opportunity to clear the air about 
Guantanamo, our military prison.

Do you know that not one single person was subjected to waterboarding 
at Guantanamo? Actually, there were only three instances of it, all 
done by our intelligence agency in a different place. None of that 
occurred there. I wish he had said that. I wish he had quoted from one 
of the investigative reports of what happened at Guantanamo.

This is what the finder found: They found one incident in which a 
series of techniques were used during interrogation, not one of which 
would have amounted to torturing that person, but all together they 
concluded it put too much stress on that individual and that it 
violated the law against torture. Well, that should not have been done.

But to hear the talk about Guantanamo, you would think we are 
waterboarding people and torturing people constantly. That is just not 
what happened there. I have been there twice. These are great men and 
women down there trying to serve our country. They are absolutely 
committed to trying to extract as much good information as they could 
to protect America. They are not abusing detainees nor are they 
violating the law. If they cross that line, they should be disciplined 
for it. But it is not the kind of thing that is or was systematically 
occurring.

I wish the President had taken the opportunity--as Commander in Chief 
of our men and women who sends them into harm's way--to defend and 
explain that a lot of the allegations about Guantanamo were exaggerated 
and false.

I yield the floor.