# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `e652081d5fd086619341eb4d454a57cf`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 26 May 2010`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I rise today to voice my support for H.R. 
4899, the Fiscal Year 2010 Supplemental Appropriations Act. This bill 
is critical to our future success in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan 
and also delivers much needed humanitarian aid to Haiti. Today, I wish 
to highlight how some of the provisions in this legislation support 
U.S. foreign policy goals, strengthen our military and civilian 
efforts, and defend against security threats around the world.

This bill does a great deal to support our ongoing counterinsurgency 
effort in Afghanistan. As General McChrystal has said, 
counterinsurgency is not an ''event,'' but rather, a ''process,'' and 
this supplemental provides the essential resources needed at each stage 
of the process.

First, the military must ''shape and clear'' in a military operation. 
The President made the bold decision in December that an additional 
30,000 troops were needed in Afghanistan, and this bill fully funds the 
additional deployment. As we saw earlier this year in Marjah and will 
witness this summer in Kandahar, the U.S. military is partnering with 
the Afghan security forces for the ''clear and hold'' portion of 
counterinsurgency, and I am pleased this bill provides $2.6 billion to 
train and equip the Afghan security forces.

Next we must ''build,'' which requires a unity of effort between the 
military and civilian agencies and which is why this bill provides 
$1.48 billion to the State Department for continued reconstruction and 
law enforcement programs. As I have stated before, our goal is to 
transfer authority to the Afghans. For this, we must continue to train 
and mentor the Afghan Army, police, and civil servants, so they may 
assume greater responsibility to provide security and effective 
governance themselves.

On a recent trip to Afghanistan in March, I saw firsthand the 
improvements that have been made with the Afghan National Army, ANA, 
training program. Thanks to a recent pay raise for ANA recruits and 
intensified partnering with U.S. forces, we are on track to exceed the 
stated goal of 134,000 trained ANA by October. The additional resources 
in this bill will help ensure we stay on this positive trajectory for 
ANA training and mobilization.

Unfortunately, the same progress has not been realized in training 
the Afghan National Police, ANP. A lack of oversight, coupled with high 
rates of attrition, drug use, illiteracy, and widespread corruption 
have severely undermined our efforts to establish a credible police 
force.

I was appalled--appalled does not describe it--I was appalled to 
learn we have spent $6 billion on training the ANP in the past 9 years, 
with little to show for it. I have been in literally 60 to 100 
meetings--before my three trips to Afghanistan, in Afghanistan, and my 
trips back. I have yet to hear anyone say anything good about the 
Afghan national police. It was not until I got on the Homeland Security 
Subcommittee that I found out we were spending $6 billion to train 
them. I would have been shocked if I had heard we were spending $100 
million to train them. However, this is key to our success in 
Afghanistan, and I believe the administration is now fully aware of the 
problems that have become endemic to this program and is focused on 
eliminating them in the months ahead.

Funding in this bill will support efforts to get police training back 
on track, which is one of the most critical elements of our strategy in 
Afghanistan.

This bill also does a great deal to reinforce our partnership with 
Pakistan. After traveling three times in the past year to Pakistan, I 
cannot underscore enough the importance and strategic value of this 
partnership to our shared fight against violent extremism. This 
resonates at home today in the wake of the failed Times Square bombing 
and Faisal Shahzad's alleged ties to Pakistani extremists in 
Waziristan. In light of mutual security interests, we must continue to 
nurture our relationship with the Pakistani people and military, 
demonstrating our enduring long-term interest in the region.

Last year, Congress validated that commitment in the form of a 5-
year, $7.5 billion economic aid package, otherwise known as the Kerry-
Lugar bill, and in the past 2 years, we have invested over $1 billion 
in military aid in the Pakistan counterinsurgency capability fund. This 
bill reaffirms these commitments with $259 million to support ongoing 
programs to strengthen democratic governance, rule of law,


and social and economic services to improve the lives of the people of 
Pakistan. Of the total, $10 million would be provided for the Pakistani 
Civilian Assistance Program, $5 million for human rights programs, and 
$1.5 million to facilitate the implementation and oversight of USAID 
and Department of State programs.

This bill also provides $50 million for the purchase of helicopters 
for Pakistan which will be used to combat terrorist groups and other 
extremist organizations. I am hopeful that this level of commitment 
will help persuade the Pakistanis to redouble their efforts to address 
security concerns along the border with Afghanistan. I cannot emphasize 
enough the importance of Pakistan's contribution to the security 
situation in the tribal areas, especially as it pertains to targeting 
the Afghan Taliban--not just the Pakistani Taliban--including the 
Haqqani Network and Quetta Shura.

This bill also helps ensure a stable and secure Iraq in preparation 
for the drawdown of United States forces and complete withdrawal of 
combat troops by September. During my recent visit to the region, I was 
struck by the helicopter view of Baghdad at night. The glimmering 
lights of the city and the traffic looked similar to any city in the 
U.S. That sight illustrated the progress that has been made in Iraq and 
the enduring mutual commitment and partnership that has been created in 
recent years. As a means of reinforcing this commitment and continued 
progress, this bill provides an additional $1 billion for the Iraqi 
security forces fund. It also provides $650 million in additional 
economic and security assistance for Iraq which includes $450 million 
for the Iraqi police program.

These measures support the security framework in Iraq, which will 
provide Iraq's leaders with the stability they need to form a new 
government. With the election recount recently completed, the 
groundwork has been laid for Iraqi elected officials to work toward a 
common goal of establishing a government representative of the people 
of Iraq. While a functioning government should not just be cobbled 
together in the interest of time, it is important to note that a 
prolonged delay could create a power vacuum that may exacerbate ongoing 
security concerns. This bill reinforces and continues to build upon the 
security infrastructure that the Iraqis have created, and the goal of 
building and sustaining past success.

Finally, I am grateful this bill includes $3 million for the Voice of 
America's Creole language broadcasting in Haiti. The VOA Creole 
broadcasts include public service announcements from U.S. Government 
agencies, which have been so valuable in previous crises around the 
world, and have helped Haitians find loved ones, shelter, medical 
assistance, and aid, in the aftermath of the earthquake.

Since then, it has provided a vital service in helping them to find 
essential resources and assistance. VOA runs public safety and relief 
supply updates, as well as a call-in line to broadcast messages from 
families and friends of the injured and missing. The additional 
resources in this bill will help to sustain these critical public 
services, and I commend the VOA for its commitment and its great 
contribution to disaster relief globally, and especially in Haiti.

This bill reinforces our foreign policy goals and secures our 
interests at home and abroad. It also funds our Armed Forces which are 
deployed in harm's way, and supports the civilian diplomatic and 
development initiatives that are necessary to our efforts in 
Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq. I thank the leadership for moving this 
bill forward, and I call on my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
supplemental.

I thank the Chair.