---
---

# None
## `e66bd7bdd71423e4426f5e51ada032cd`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Speaker, we must end this war. On November 
7, when the American people spoke in the last election, from Washington 
State to Florida, from Vermont to California, they made a very clear 
decision that they want to bring our troops home. Their challenge to us 
is to implement that policy.

Americans want a new direction in Iraq. The citizens of America know 
that the time has come to change direction, to bring our troops home 
with their heads held high in honor of a job well done.

Mr. Speaker, many of our finest, most highly decorated members of the 
military, now retired, can say publicly what in the past they could 
only say privately. It is this: Iraq is engaged in a civil war. It is 
not the proper job of our men and women in uniform to referee an Iraqi 
civil war.

The citizens of our country also recognize the obvious: if the Iraqi 
leadership is unwilling to help itself, how can we expect the American 
people and the American military to do that job for them? Iraqi leaders 
will not spend $10 billion in funds available to improve electricity 
and water, yet expect Americans to spend our taxpayer dollars to do 
that.

Commonsense citizens in our country are asking an obvious question: 
If the Iraqi Parliament has work to do, why is it taking a 2-month 
vacation this summer, a vacation, when they haven't reached agreement 
on oil sharing, when they haven't allowed former Baathists, low level 
with no blood on their hands, to resume a place in that society, when 
they won't crack down on sectarian violence, and, Mr. Speaker, when 
they interfere with the efforts of the American military when they 
attempt to do so?

Mr. Speaker, there is a very clear recognition on the part of the 
American people, and it is this: our men and women in uniform have done 
their job. They toppled Saddam, they reported back that there were no 
weapons of mass destruction, and they did provide stability in Iraq so 
that they could have three elections.

What we face now is a White House that has dug its heels in and a 
President who refuses to change and adjust and provide leadership to 
the facts as they exist. Those facts: Iraq is engaged in a civil war, 
something the White House denies. Those facts: it is the job of the 
Iraqi political leadership and the people of Iraq to create a civil 
society. It is not the job of the military to do nation-building.

The legislation we have is going to allow us to change the direction 
of our policy from escalating militarily, as the President stubbornly 
pursues that policy, to a strategy of Iraqi self-control and stability 
in the region. I support the rule and the underlying bill.