---
---

# DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL
## `e66e181c7cdae69aa996908e665d0c24`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 18 December 2010`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I believe under the previous order I 
have 5 minutes of Senator McCain's time. I would like to take a minute 
to speak on this issue of repeal of don't ask, don't tell. I wish to 
start by talking about the process.

Here we are, once again, at the end of the year, 1 week before 
Christmas, dealing with a very sensitive, a very emotional issue that 
is of critical importance to our men and women in the military, as well 
as every other American, but most significantly those men and women who 
are willing to put their lives in harm's way to protect America and 
protect Americans--and they do such a good job of that. What we have 
seen is the House took up a bill, passed a bill, it comes to the 
Senate, direct to the floor, no opportunity for amendments, limited 
opportunity for debate--which we will have today--and then we are going 
to vote.

I see the assistant majority leader is here. I wish to say that as we 
move into next year, get ready--get ready--because this game can be 
played by both sides. There will be a number of bills that are passed 
in the House next year that the majority is not going to want to vote 
on. But they better believe those bills are going to be coming to the 
floor of the Senate in the same way this bill is coming, and we are 
going to insist on that.

Second, let me just say we are in the middle of two military 
conflicts, where men and women are getting shot at, injured, killed, 
doing heroic acts, and providing for freedom in a part of the world 
that is of critical importance to all Americans and, at the same time, 
making sure, as they fight that battle in Iraq and Afghanistan, those 
individuals who would seek to do harm to America and Americans are not 
allowed to do so.

We have a policy in place called don't ask, don't tell that has been 
in place for 18 years now and it has worked. Admiral Mullen, in his 
testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee, said that as a 
commander he had to terminate individuals who decided to let it be 
known they were a member of the gay or lesbian community, and he did.

I said in an additional question to him when he responded to that: 
Did you have a morale issue when you had to terminate those people? He 
said: No; morale remained high.

Morale today, in every branch of our service, is probably as high as 
it has ever been in the last several decades. Recruiting and retention 
are at all-time highs. But what does this survey that was sent out on 
this issue to military personnel and military families show? First of 
all, it does not address the issue of: Do you support repeal of don't 
ask, don't tell? They did not ask the question. The survey assumes the 
repeal and talks about implementation. What is interesting about the 
survey is that the individuals who conducted it, in addition to sending 
out pieces of paper, also had personal interviews, they had online, 
back-and-forth chats with individual members of the military, and a 
majority of the individuals who wear the uniform of the United States 
who had personal interaction with the individuals who did the survey 
were opposed to the repeal of don't ask, don't tell.

The survey does show that nearly 60 percent of the respondents from 
the Marine Corps and the Army combat arms said they believe repeal 
would cause a negative impact on their unit's effectiveness. Among 
marine combat arms, the percentage was 67 percent. And we think this is 
a good idea? We think it is a good idea when 67 percent of those 
marines who are in foxholes and are dodging bullets around corners in 
Afghanistan as we speak today, who say that this is going to have an 
impact on them, we think it is a good idea to repeal this policy?

And, by the way, this has nothing to do with the valiant service that 
gays and lesbians have provided to the United States of America. That 
is a given. We all agree with that. But what the Marine Corps and what 
the Army, as well as what the Air Force Chief said is this is not the 
time to repeal this. In the middle of a military conflict is not the 
time to repeal a policy that is working, that has the potential for 
affecting morale, it has the potential for affecting unit cohesiveness, 
and it also, most significantly in my mind, according to both General 
Casey and General Amos, does have the potential for increasing the risk 
of harm and death to our men and women who are serving in combat today.

If for no other reason, we ought not to repeal this today. Should it 
be done at some point in time? Maybe so. But in the middle of a 
military conflict is not the time to do it. So as we think about this, 
and we think about the men and women who are serving, and the fact 
that, as Senator Inhofe alluded to earlier--I will not repeat all of 
those numbers--but the fact is that if the percentages in response to 
the survey turn out to be true, then we are going to have about 30 
percent of marine combat forces who are going to get out early and not 
reenlist, and we are going to have to replace them. We have got about 
25 percent of those combat troops in the Army who are not going to 
reenlist and who would like to get out early.

If that happens, we are going to have 250,000 soldiers and marines 
that need to be replaced in short order. When I asked Secretary Gates 
about it, he said: Well, that is not going to happen. Well, if it does 
happen, we are going to have serious consequences.

I do hope common sense will prevail here and that we will not get 
cloture, and we can move on to something that is extremely important to 
the men and women of America at this time in our calendar year.

I yield the floor.