---
---

# MOTION TO INSTRUCT CONFEREES ON H.R. 2647, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `e6705b01c43d2e3fbe7adaf0499ce811`
`Mr. AKIN — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, once again we see shenanigans going on on the 
floor of the House. And the idea is that we're going to sneak stuff 
through, and we're going to use the good will and the support of the 
American public for our warfighters in order to pass some particular 
specialized agenda that has nothing to do with the warfighters at all.

This is not new this year. There was a big bill we passed--it was 
called cap-and-tax--3 o'clock in the morning. Three hundred pages of 
amendments passed. It came here to the floor for us to debate, and we 
are asking is there a copy of the bill on the floor? And the answer was 
no, there's not even a copy of the bill on the floor because of the 
fact we're going to do this in the dark of night with tricky little 
procedures.

And here we go with a bill that many of us have labored hard for. I 
have an important amendment on the bill, and yet what's going on? We're 
going to slip into this bill to fund--my own son, in fact, who's going 
to Afghanistan in 3 weeks--we're going to use the good will of the 
voters of America to slip into this thing a bill called hate crimes 
which has nothing to do whatsoever with what's being passed.

It is more of the same cloak and mirrors, dark of the night, slippery 
kind of stuff the American public is fed up with, and I am fed up with 
it. I have three sons that have graduated from the Naval Academy. I 
have two sons who are in the Marine Corps right now. This bill talks 
about funding them and funding the defense of our country, which I take 
very seriously.

But to put into this bill this hate crimes bill which has been, I 
think, kicked around the Judiciary Committee for years and to try to 
connect that with something that's unrelated is just procedurally 
wrong. It's something that is shameful. It should not happen on this 
floor. And in that regard, I refuse to vote for this bill in spite of 
the fact that the bill is good underneath.