---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `e670d9145d42436e7cf30fd1863159d0`
`Mr. BENNET — 18 November 2010`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today 
to honor the life and heroic service of SGT Aaron B. Cruttenden. 
Sergeant Cruttenden, assigned to the 27th Engineer Battalion, based in 
Fort Bragg, NC, died on November 7, 2010, of injuries sustained when 
his dismounted patrol encountered small arms fire. Sergeant Cruttenden 
was serving in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Kunar Province, 
Afghanistan. He was 25 years old.

A native of Mesa, AZ, Sergeant Cruttenden earned his graduate 
equivalency diploma and worked for 2 years as an apprentice 
electrician. He then enlisted in the Army in March 2008. Sergeant 
Cruttenden hoped to defend his country, make a better life for his 
family, and pursue opportunities for higher education. He served a tour 
of duty in Afghanistan with decoration.

During his 2/1/2/ years of service, Sergeant Cruttenden distinguished 
himself through his courage, dedication to duty, and willingness to 
take on one of the most dangerous and skillful jobs in the Army--
detecting and eliminating improvised explosive devices. Throughout 
Sergeant Cruttenden's time in the Army, family members recall that his 
foremost concern was protecting the men and women under his command.

Sergeant Cruttenden worked on the front lines of battle, serving in 
the most dangerous areas of Afghanistan. He is remembered by those who 
knew him as a consummate professional with an unending commitment to 
excellence. His family remembers him as a dedicated son and loving 
father to his young daughter. Both in service and civilian life, 
Sergeant Cruttenden's warmth and caring for others were always on 
display.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Sergeant 
Cruttenden's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by selflessly 
putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He lived with a 
sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield was 
uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Sergeant Cruttenden will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To Sergeant Cruttenden's entire family--I cannot imagine the sorrow 
you must be feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain of your loss will 
be eased by your pride in Aaron's service and by your knowledge that 
his country will never forget him. We are humbled by his service and 
his sacrifice.
