---
---

# HAPPY 234TH BIRTHDAY, U.S. ARMY
## `e67645224737b0d0a00c33069ab924fe`
`Ms. KILPATRICK of Michigan — 12 June 2009`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK of Michigan. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
234th birthday of the United States Army. As the oldest branch of the 
U.S. military, the United States Army has established the tradition of 
duty, honor and country that has been the standard of excellence, not 
only in the military but also in private industry.

Two hundred and thirty-four years ago, the United States Army was 
established to defend our Nation. From the Revolutionary War to our 
current challenges, Global War on Terror, our soldiers remain Army 
Strong with a deep commitment to our core values and beliefs. This 
234th birthday commemorates America's Army--soldiers, families and 
civilians--who are achieving a level of excellence that is truly Army 
Strong both here and abroad. Their willingness to sacrifice to build a 
better future for others and to preserve our way of life is without a 
doubt, the strength of our Nation.

Additionally, in recognition of their commitment to service and 
willingness to make great sacrifices on behalf of our Nation, the 
Secretary of the Army established 2009 as Year of the Non Commissioned 
Officer, NCO.

Since 1775, the Army has set apart its NCOs from other enlisted 
Soldiers by distinctive insignia of grade.

With more than 200 years of service, the U.S. Army's Noncommissioned 
Officer Corps has distinguished itself as the world's most accomplished 
group of military professionals. Historical and daily accounts of life 
as an NCO are exemplified by acts of courage and a dedication and a 
willingness to do whatever it


takes to complete the mission. NCOs have been celebrated for decorated 
service in military events ranging from Valley Forge to Gettysburg, to 
charges on Omaha Beach and battles along the Ho Chi Minh Trail, to 
current conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Today I wish to celebrate the strength of our Nation and the strength 
of our Army by saluting our Non Commissioned Officer Corps and the 
Army's soldiers, families and civilians by wishing them a happy 234th 
Birthday!
