# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e68cc354fb22e89663600af2385bbec4`
`Ms. MATSUI â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me 
time.

Madam Speaker, I am hopeful today. Finally, 4 years into a very 
controversial war, Congress will begin to fulfill its constitutional 
responsibility as Representatives of the people. This week, every 
Member of the House of Representatives has had an opportunity to 
express their views on the war in Iraq. And today, every Member will 
cast their vote for or against the President's escalation of the war. 
This is only right.

For my part, I believe the President's proposed escalation would be a 
tragic mistake. Our need for a change of direction could not be more 
clear. But rather than change direction, the President proposes that we 
continue down our current disastrous path, only at a faster pace and 
with more human life placed in harm's way.

We should be bringing troops home, not sending more there. We should 
be ending this war, not escalating it. Considering this resolution is 
only the first step of many Congress will need to take to force a 
change in direction, but as Thomas Jefferson once said, honesty is the 
first chapter of the book of wisdom. Congress writes that chapter with 
this resolution, but it is only the first chapter.

Sadly, the burden created by the lack of honesty and wisdom this 
administration has brought to this conflict is shouldered by our brave 
men and women in uniform. Two years ago, I spoke with a group of women 
in Sacramento whose husbands were serving in the National Guard in 
Iraq.

One woman told me she had to buy her husband a Kevlar vest and a 
canteen before he deployed to Iraq, something all too many families 
were doing for their loved ones because the military was not providing 
it. A short time later, the administration assured the public that the 
issue had been addressed. And yet just this week we heard reports that 
the Army lacks armored Humvees and other equipment necessary for the 
troop increase the President is implementing; once again, a failure in 
vision and planning, and once again, our troops pay the price.

Escalation of this conflict will further increase the strain on a 
military that is already stretched to the breaking point. Every Member 
of this Chamber knows this. Earlier this month, I spoke with a friend 
and reservist in Sacramento named Richard Beach. Richard shipped out to 
Iraq 4 years ago as a chaplain in the Army Reserves. He is home now. 
But he still keeps in touch with his old unit. Richard shared with me a 
note he sent to some of his fellow members of the 114th.

He wrote, ''I remember 4 years ago we were getting ready for our trip 
to Fort Lewis and then on to Iraq. I hope as the fourth anniversary of 
the war comes up, you are all in good health and living life to the 
fullest. I, too, pray that soon this war will end and we will stop 
sending our soldiers off to war.''

Four years later, he reports that many of the same soldiers and their 
families are making the same sacrifice. But that is a heartbreaking 
reality here. Implementing the President's policy will mean that 
members of his regiment along with so many others will have to endure 
more and more of the back-to-back deployments to Iraq.

The notion of shared sacrifice is something that helped make this 
country great. Americans are strong believers in shared sacrifice. But 
all too often in this war, only our troops and their families share the 
sacrifice. That is too much to ask on behalf of policies that have not 
worked.

The administration offers us scant reason to believe this troop 
increase will work when it has tried and failed with several previous 
troop increases. This proposal offers us nothing but more of the same.

Our brave men and women in uniform have done everything that has been 
asked of them. It is our political leadership that has failed. There is 
a saying, It takes two people to speak the truth: one to speak it and 
one to hear it. I hope the administration will choose to hear the truth 
and I hope that we pass this resolution today.