---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `e6990b6dde7483c9f1c044bc433b2fc0`
`Mr. DODD — 11 April 2007`

---

 Mr. DODD. Mr. President, I rise today to pay my respects to 
Private First Class Orlando E. Gonzalez, who last month lost his life 
in the service of our country.

On the morning of Sunday, March 25, Private First Class Gonzalez was 
handing out candy to Iraqi children in the province of Diyala when a 
suicide


bomber killed him and three other soldiers. Private First Class 
Gonzalez was only 21 years old.

Born in Bridgeport, CT, Orlando is being remembered today for his 
dedication to the U.S. Army, and for his warm and giving nature. ''He 
always had a smile on his face,'' said his high school principal, Brian 
Cashman. ''He was kind of a handful, but you couldn't help but like 
him.''

Private First Class Gonzalez rose above what his principal described 
as a ''rough'' background to find purpose and discipline: first at a 
faith-based camp for students, and then as an American soldier.

''We just loved him around here,'' said Patrick LeBlanc, director of 
Summit Grove Camp. The first thing that came to LeBlanc's mind on 
hearing of Orlando's death was his infectious playfulness. LeBlanc 
recalled seeing a wild rabbit on the camp grounds, and telling Orlando 
he was fast enough to catch it. Orlando only nodded--and a few hours 
later, knocked on LeBlanc's door, petting the rabbit and beaming.

But it was in the Army that Private First Class Gonzalez found, as so 
many have found before him, meaning and a second home. ''I think the 
Army is what he needed,'' said Principal Cashman. Patrick LeBlanc 
agreed: ''It was the second happiest place I'd seen him, other than 
camp here. . . . He was doing what he wanted to do.''

As a scout javelin gunner for the 82nd Airborne Division, 3rd Brigade 
Combat Team, 5th Squadron, 73rd Cavalry Regiment, Private First Class 
Gonzalez immediately distinguished himself. ''On a daily basis, Private 
First Class Gonzalez displayed courage, honor, and selfless service in 
the struggle to keep America safe and improve the nation of Iraq,'' 
said Captain John Carson of the 73rd Cavalry. Private First Class 
Gonzalez was already highly decorated at the time of his death, and we 
can only wonder what an outstanding career might have been waiting for 
him.

Instead, Private First Class Gonzalez leaves behind two grieving 
parents, Orlando G. Gonzalez of Bridgeport, and Carmen Diaz of New 
Freedom, PA. But he leaves behind, as well, an example of dedication 
that won't soon be dimmed.

''This hero will be sorely missed and will forever live in our 
memories,'' said Captain Carson.

Orlando, though, might have used other words. ''Call him a hero and 
he would get mad,'' Orlando's friend and pastor, the Reverend Paul 
Juchniewich, said in a funeral sermon. ''He would just say he was doing 
his duty to rescue those who are in peril. He did not die in a 
conventional battle, but rather a battle for the hearts and minds of 
the future generation.''

The struggle's outcome is still uncertain. But we will keep fresh the 
memory of one man who advanced it with all his strength, Private First 
Class Orlando E. Gonzalez, whose last act on this Earth was to 
give.
