---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `e69f80270ac7c50d87b61bced6403bf3`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. I thank the gentleman.

I heard a few minutes ago a description of an ideal world where every 
decision made by the executive branch is perfectly motivated. I wish 
that were the real world, but I certainly wouldn't want to bet the 
family nest egg on it.

Let me explain, Mr. Chairman, some of my colleagues, how the real 
world works. And I did represent the largest Army installation for 14 
years; I worked closely with them. And what would happen is some 
bureaucrat at OMB would turn down a high-priority project requested by 
the top military commander--at Fort Hood, that was a Three Star 
General. So when I would meet with that Three Star General at Fort 
Hood, I would say, what are your greatest unmet needs? One year it was 
a fire station. This year it was a chapel that Congressman Carter and I 
worked on. We responded to the highest priority needs of the military 
commanders with their boots on the ground. I put a lot more faith in 
that commander's judgment than in some unaccountable, unnamed 
bureaucrat. I would like to hear the names of these bureaucrats at OMB 
that are so perfect in their knowledge, in their wisdom, in their 
homework.

Let me give you a specific real world example where this committee, 
on a bipartisan basis, took an initiative. We hear in our hearings each 
year from the top noncommissioned officers. We


ask, what are your top quality of life needs? For 3 years in a row our 
top noncommissioned officers testified before Mr. Wamp and me and said, 
it is day care centers. We have spouses who are deployed one, two, 
three times to Iraq and Afghanistan. The remaining spouse is left at 
home with small children and desperately needs affordable, accessible 
day care for their kids.

But you know what? There weren't a lot of lobbyists over there at OMB 
fighting for young mothers that are, in effect, single mothers while 
their husbands are in Iraq, or young, single dads while their wives 
were serving in Afghanistan. And our committee exercised its authority 
under the Constitution to say that that's not right, we're going to 
support these military families.

I reject this amendment, again, as I said, as being harmful to our 
military families. In this case, you know what happened on day care 
centers? After we added $134 million in a congressional initiative in 
the FY08 supplemental bill, the Pentagon came back and said, you're 
right, we made a mistake, we want to add to that.

We should reject this amendment and support our troops.