---
---

# None
## `e6a4f674d0397153a47beb7f02056833`
`Mr. TURNER — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. TURNER. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.

I would like to thank Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter for 
their leadership in completing the conference report for FY08 National 
Defense Authorization Act.

On December 6, Chairman Skelton announced that an agreement had been 
reached on the conference report stating that ''this bill supports the 
troops, restores readiness, and improves accountability.''

I would like to point out that this bill includes a key policy 
provision that directly supports our troops. This bill will amend the 
Service Members Civil Relief Act to protect the children and custody 
arrangements of servicemembers deployed in a contingency operation. 
This provision is important because it protects our deployed troops 
from courts that have been overturning established custody arrangements 
while a servicemember is serving our country in a contingency operation 
such as Iraq or Afghanistan.

Today, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill because it 
provides the child custody protection that our deployed troops deserve. 
Much is asked of our servicemembers, and mobilization can disrupt and 
strain relationships at home. This additional protection is needed to 
provide them peace of mind that the courts will not undertake judicial 
proceedings considering their established custody rights without them. 
This amendment protects them, and it protects their children.