---
---

# RECOGNIZING MILITARY MEDICAL AND AIR CREWS
## `e6a45032caed4127438554c79a97dc27`
`Mr. CRITZ — 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. CRITZ. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 1605, 
recognizing the service of the medical and aircrews in helping our 
wounded warriors make the expeditious and safe trip home to the United 
States and commending the personnel of the Air Force for their 
commitment to the well-being of all our servicemen and -women.

I would like to thank the gentleman from California (Mr. Thompson) 
for bringing this resolution before the House.

Mr. Speaker, twice a week, those of us who have south-facing offices 
in the Cannon, Longworth and Rayburn House Office Buildings can 
sometimes catch a glimpse of something subtle but something altogether 
awe-inspiring. Every once in a while, we can see the arresting 
silhouette of a C-17 in a flight pattern towards Andrews Air Force Base 
in the final few minutes of the journey home for some of America's 
wounded warriors. Twice per week, on schedule, these aeromedical crews 
bring our wounded servicemembers home right here to the National 
Capital Area after having fallen ill or having suffered injury during 
an already difficult deployment overseas. This powerful image is part 
of a much larger system.

The Air Force has up to 500 aeromedical personnel deployed to 
Afghanistan, Iraq, in Europe, and in the United States as part of the 
team providing care and helping to ensure that wounded soldiers, 
sailors, airmen, and marines get safely home to their families. It 
takes an average of 3 days for wounded troops to arrive at hospitals in 
the United States. This is over 40 days faster than during the Vietnam 
war. We have Air Force aeromedical evacuation to thank for being the 
transportation spine of the effort to bring our ill and injured men and 
women home as safely and as quickly as possible.

Ultimately, aeromedical evacuation by the Air Force is part of an 
integrated combat casualty care system that includes front-line medics 
and corpsmen of the Army, Navy and Air Force, as well as medical 
evacuation and casualty evacuation by Army, Navy and Marine Corps 
flight, air ambulance and ground ambulance crews.

We owe our sincerest gratitude to each and every person in this 
system who has yielded an extraordinary 98 percent survival rate for 
wounded servicemembers.

So, Mr. Speaker, if you are ever facing south on the Hill and see a 
C-17 on the horizon, you might now just sigh in relief because it might 
be one of our aeromedical evacuation transports bringing our wounded 
warriors home to receive world-class medical care.

I urge my colleagues to support House Resolution 1605.

I reserve the balance of my time.