# None
## `e6ad92b27986b6237ee89e5d55eb154b`
`Mr. HAYES â€” 12 March 2007`

---


Mr. HAYES. I was telling former Chairman Hunter, Ranking Member 
Hunter now, that when he and Randy Neugebauer return, we have our 
Congressional Prayer Caucus that meets every Monday or Tuesday night, 
just at the beginning of votes, and three young men who were just 
wounded and brought back from Iraq, we were able to pray for them and 
will contact their families tonight.

Prayer still goes on here in the Halls of Congress, as you well know. 
We will meet on Wednesday morning. There are a number of organizations, 
Semper Fi Fund, Fallen Heroes Fund, but there are numerous others where 
men, women and children are working around the clock again to assist 
with these wounded veterans. They are doing a fabulous job. As part of 
this discussion, I wanted to call attention to them.

Last but not least, I met a young man at Landstuhl a couple of years 
ago, Sergeant Danny Metzdorf, 82nd Airborne, all the way, and walked 
into that room, and you have had the same experience, he looked just 
like my son. That was what really caught my attention. He had just been 
wounded there, and I struck up a conversation with him and he hardly 
remembered that night. But when he got back to Walter Reed, went to 
visit him a couple of times, got to know his family, had a prosthetic 
leg, 25, 30 surgeries, just,


really, all he thought about, I want to get back with my buddies, back 
with my unit.

Well, that outstanding young soldier, Airborne guy, is now the 
coordinator and jump master for the Golden Knights. So with that new 
artificial leg, and these stories are, so, so, many, I want people 
again to be encouraged, not satisfied, but encouraged that medical 
treatment is not only available but it is something that is so 
critically important to us.

I was here one day and some contentious issue was going on in the 
people's House, and I got an emergency, I thought, call. Dan Metzdorf 
is calling you. Oh my gosh, something has gone wrong, surgery, he had a 
complication. I immediately left the floor and called him. He said, 
gosh, there was so much going on, are you doing okay? That is the way 
our young people are today. They are for America. God bless them all.