---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `e6becc635a534a6fd8f25112964e39f6`
`Mr. CONRAD — 29 April 2009`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, I also want to recognize the excellent 
first speech that the Senator from Colorado just gave. I had a chance 
to hear part of it on the Senate floor and part of it in the cloakroom. 
We welcome him. If his first speech is any measure, he is going to make 
a significant contribution. So we are delighted to have somebody of his 
thoughtfulness and quality as part of this body.

Mr. President, the Senate now begins consideration of the conference 
agreement on the budget for 2010. I think we have to see this budget in 
its context. We have to understand what this administration has 
inherited from the previous administration. To be clear, it is a 
colossal mess--the worst recession since the Great Depression, a 
doubling of debt under the previous administration, and a more than 
tripling of foreign holdings of U.S. debt.

I try to suppress partisanship in my discussions on the Senate floor, 
but it is impossible to overlook the record of the previous 
administration. They have slammed this economy into the ditch. 
President Obama is put in the position of the cleanup crew. It is not 
pretty or easy, and it is going to be a difficult challenge for this 
country to come out of a policy stew that is impossible to choke down.

Let me be clear in my own view of how we got here. I believe we had 
an overly loose monetary policy under the control of the Federal 
Reserve ever since 9/11, an overly loose fiscal policy under the 
control of the White House and the Congress, record deficits, a massive 
buildup of debt--when the economy was relatively strong and right 
before the baby boom generation started to retire. That is remarkable.

If you look back into history, it is rare to have at the same time an 
overly loose monetary policy, low interest rates, Congress and the 
White House


running an overly loose fiscal policy with record deficits, even at a 
time of relative economic strength; on top of that, a 
dysfunctional trade policy with record trade deficits, which meant we 
were shipping hundreds of billions of dollars to other countries to buy 
their goods, over and above what we were producing, and a deregulatory 
environment administratively and in terms of the laws of this country 
that allowed things like the AIG derivative fiasco to develop 
completely without oversight.


Those elements created the seedbed for bubbles to form. So we didn't 
just get a housing bubble, we got a commodity bubble--wheat prices went 
to nearly $20 a bushel; we got an energy bubble, with oil prices up to 
$145 a barrel. So if one looks at this historically, we see the 
formation of these bubbles, and bubbles ultimately burst and create 
enormous economic wreckage. That is what has occurred here.

All of this was under the direction, fundamentally, of the Bush 
administration. This was their policy that was pursued for 8 years. Our 
friends on the other side controlled the House and Senate for 6 of 
those 8 years. They put into place the policies that have been the 
guiding principles of policy for this country for the last 8 years.

As a result, we saw a very dramatic deterioration in the budget 
picture under the Bush administration. They went from inheriting 
surpluses to putting us into record deficits. For 2009, there is a 
deficit of $1.7 trillion. In fairness to them, they are not responsible 
for that whole amount because part of it is the stimulus package that 
was enacted.

Clearly, they are responsible for at least $1.3 trillion of the $1.7 
trillion of deficit in 2009. This is the record on deficit and of debt 
by the previous administration. After their first year in office, the 
debt was $5.8 trillion. We typically do not hold administrations 
responsible for their first year because they are working off the plan 
of the previous administration. If you look at the 8 years they are 
responsible for, the debt went from $5.8 trillion to over $12 trillion.

Mr. President, that is not the only part of this that is important to 
keep in mind. It took 42 Presidents 224 years to build up $1 trillion 
of foreign debt held by foreign entities. The previous administration 
tripled that. They ran up another $2.5 trillion of U.S. debt held 
abroad. Some say it is a sign of strength that people are willing to 
lend us all this money. I personally don't think it is a sign of 
strength. I think it is a sign of vulnerability that we are running 
record trade deficits, meaning record borrowing, much of that borrowing 
done abroad.

Last year, of the debt we had to finance, 68 percent of it was 
financed by foreign entities.

Mr. President, this President walked into a truly astounding set of 
circumstances. Here is what they are: Record deficits, doubling of the 
national debt under the previous administration, the worst recession 
since the Great Depression, and financial market and housing crises. 
Everywhere you look, this President inherited a crisis--in housing, in 
the financial sector, and in the fiscal sector. Also, 3.7 million jobs 
have been lost in the last 6 months, and we have ongoing wars in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

So what do we do about it? The budget is a document that outlines the 
fundamental priorities of the country.

In this conference agreement, we have attempted to preserve the 
President's priorities of reducing our dependence on foreign energy--
critically important to our economic future--a focus on excellence in 
education, and fundamental health care reform.

If we look ahead to the fiscal future of America, no single thing is 
more important than reforming the health care system. Already, we are 
spending nearly 18 percent of our gross domestic product on health 
care. That is $1 of every $6 in this economy going to health care. We 
are on a trajectory to have 37 percent of our gross domestic product 
going to health care. That would be more than $1 in every $3 in our 
economy going to health care. Clearly, that is unsustainable. At the 
current rate of nearly 18 percent of our GDP going to health care, we 
are spending twice as much as any other industrialized country.

We are on an unsustainable course, and the President says we have to 
alter that, we have to expand health care coverage so that everybody is 
included so we can then institute the kind of cost controls that will 
be necessary. I know it is counterintuitive to think: How can it be 
that we are going to reduce costs if we are expanding coverage? The 
thing we know in our current system is that people without coverage 
still get health care, but they are getting it in the most expensive 
setting: they are getting it in the emergency rooms of our hospitals 
all across the country. We would be much better off having them have 
coverage and having them in a system that is a wellness system, one 
that is designed to keep people from getting ill and, if they become 
ill, managing their illness in a way that prevents the most costly of 
outcomes.

This conference report also provides $764 billion in tax cuts focused 
on the middle class. I know there has been a lot of talk in the press 
about some tax increases, and indeed there are. For those of us who are 
fortunate enough to make more than a quarter of a million dollars a 
year, we will be expected to pay somewhat more--not a lot more but a 
little bit more. If we are going to get our fiscal house in order, 
those of us who are most fortunate are going to have to pay a little 
bit more. But on a net basis, when you add in the tax increases asked 
for from those who are the most fortunate, with all of the other tax 
changes, the overall effect is to reduce taxes from current law by $764 
billion over the next 5 years, and those tax reductions are focused on 
the middle class.

We also cut the deficit in half by 2012 and by two-thirds by 2014. We 
get it down to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2014. Most of the 
economists say that is the key metric because at 3 percent of GDP, 
growth of the debt relative to our national income is stabilized. We 
keep the debt from growing the way it has been.

The discretionary spending level in this conference report is $10 
billion below the President's proposal. We have cut his spending plan 
by $10 billion. In addition, there are reconciliation instructions for 
health care and education. They require at least $2 billion in deficit 
reduction.

I personally believe reconciliation, which is a special process here, 
a fast-track process, will not be used for health care because as 
people get into it, I think they will find it is a very difficult way 
to write major, substantive legislation. My own prediction is that 
reconciliation will not be used for health care. The committees of 
jurisdiction have until October 15 to report legislation in the regular 
order of business using the regular procedure. I have talked with the 
chairman of the committee that has most of the responsibility for 
health care, and, of course, that is the Finance Committee. Senator 
Baucus says it is his full intention to proceed under the regular 
order, not using the reconciliation instruction. But it is there as an 
insurance policy.

We also have the alternative minimum tax fix for 3 years, so we will 
not see a big increase in the number of people affected by the 
alternative minimum tax. There are some 3 million or 4 million people 
now paying. If we did not take these steps, 24 million people would be 
expected to pay the alternative minimum tax. Nobody wants to see that 
happen. So we have a fix for the next 3 years.

We also have disaster relief for the next 2 years. We call it a 
placeholder because it is an estimate of what disaster relief will cost 
for the next 2 years based on looking back over the last 5 years and 
doing an average.

This is a break from how we have typically dealt with disaster 
funding. Typically, we have done it through emergency designations. The 
President thought: Look, we know we are going to have disasters. Why 
don't we budget for them? It is a worthy experiment, and we will see 
how it works.

Even though none of us can predict what disasters might occur, we 
know the strong likelihood is that there will be disasters. Certainly, 
my state has experienced them. We have had flooding all across the 
State of North Dakota from one end to the other. I have been home three 
times in the last several weeks going from town to town all across 
North Dakota, from the Red River Valley in the east, to the Souris 
Valley in the central part of the state, the James, the Cheyenne--all 
of them,


are experiencing flooding that is unlike anything we have ever seen in 
recorded history.

We know there are disasters. There are going to be costs. In my 
state, hundreds of millions of dollars have already been experienced in 
terms of losses, roads, bridges devastated. We have even had dams 
significantly eroded by these weather events. We know there are costs 
associated with it, and we have tried to anticipate them in this 
budget.

Most important, this budget coming from the conference committee 
focuses on three key priorities: reducing our dependence on foreign 
energy, putting a focus on excellence in education, and fundamental 
health care reform.

First, with respect to energy, it reduces our dependence on foreign 
energy, creates green jobs, helps protect the environment, and helps 
with high home energy costs. It does that in three ways. One, it 
creates a reserve fund to accommodate legislation to invest in clean 
energy and address global climate change. Second, it provides $500 
million above the President's level of discretionary funding for energy 
for fiscal year 2010. Third, it builds on the economic recovery package 
investments in renewable energy, efficiency and conservation, low 
carbon coal technology, and modernizing the electric grid.

By the way, modernizing the electric grid presents this country with 
an amazing opportunity to have a leap forward because we are really 
dealing almost in the horse-and-buggy era with the grid that we have 
that is not permitting us to shift power from places we can produce 
it--clean, green power--to places that need it.

In addition, we have in this budget coming back from the conference a 
focus on excellence in education. We generate economic growth and jobs. 
We prepare the workforce to compete in this global economy. We make 
college more affordable. We attempt to improve student achievement, 
which is at the heart of what education is all about. We do it again in 
three ways: by providing a higher education reserve fund to facilitate 
the President's student aid increases; we provide for education tax 
cuts to make it more affordable for our young people to go to college 
and other institutions of higher learning; and we provide the 
President's requested level of $5,550 for Pell grants and fully fund 
his education priorities, such as early childhood education.

The third key priority is fundamental health care reform, and that is 
accommodated in the conference report. We attempt to bend the health 
care cost curve to get costs under control, to improve health care 
outcomes for our nation's people, to expand coverage because we have 
more than 40 million people now without any health care insurance. We 
increase research, especially devoted to those areas of highest 
opportunity to make meaningful progress, and we promote food and drug 
safety. Again, we do that in three ways with a reserve fund to 
accommodate the President's initiative to reform the health care 
system; by funding for at least 2 years a reserve fund that further 
addresses Medicare physician payments; and continues investment in key 
health care programs, such as the NIH and the FDA.

I want to at this moment indicate that one of the key staff persons 
on our Budget Committee is himself in the hospital. Joel Friedman, who 
is the deputy staff director for the Budget Committee, a remarkable 
person, truly gifted, somebody who has the respect of people on both 
sides of the aisle, is in the hospital. Our thoughts and prayers are 
with Joel and his family. I don't know if he is able to watch this. 
Last week, he was not able to because he did not have C-SPAN in his 
room. But I want him and his family to know that the entire Budget 
Committee family--and that goes for Republicans and Democrats--is 
thinking of him and hoping for his swift recovery.


While we have focused on these key priorities of the President--
excellence in education, reducing our dependence on foreign energy, 
health care reform--we are doing it all in the context of dramatically 
reducing the deficit. In fact, we cut the deficit by two-thirds by 
2014. As measured by the gross domestic product, which economists say 
is the best measure, we do even better than that, as measured by share 
of the gross domestic product, we are reducing the deficit by 75 
percent, by three-quarters, from 12 percent of GDP in this year to 3 
percent of GDP in 2014.

Again, that metric of 3 percent of GDP in 2014 is especially 
important because economists tell us that at that rate, we have about 
stabilized the growth of the debt. In other words, the debt will not 
continue to grow faster than our national income if we can continue 
deficits of 3 percent of GDP. My own view is we should do even better 
than that. Certainly, in the second 5 years, I think it is incredibly 
important that we do better than that given the fact the baby boom 
generation will be retiring.

In terms of the revenue changes in the budget resolution, I indicated 
earlier that if you look at total tax changes in the budget 
resolution--and this is CBO scoring, this is not my invention--the 
taxes are cut by $764 billion over the 5 years, and here is where: 
middle-class tax relief, $512 billion. That includes the 10-percent 
bracket, the marriage penalty relief, the child tax credit, education 
incentives, and all of the other 2001 and 2003 tax cuts that affect 
those earning less than $250,000 a year. All of those tax cuts are 
extended for the entire 5 years.

In addition, we have provided for alternative minimum tax relief for 
3 years at a cost of $214 billion. We have provided for estate tax 
reform at a cost of $72 billion that will permit couples to avoid any 
estate tax if they have estates of $7 million or less. Let me say that 
excludes 99.8 percent of estates. Mr. President, 99.8 percent of 
estates will pay nothing--zero--under the budget proposal.

In addition, we provide $63 billion for the so-called tax extenders. 
Tax extenders are items such as the research and development tax 
credit. Those have to be extended every year or every other year, 
depending on which one we are talking about, and we provide for those 
as well.

Those tax cuts that amount to $861 billion are offset by loophole 
closers of $97 billion. And what we are focused on here is the offshore 
tax havens; the abusive tax shelters.


We now know, from the Permanent Committee on Investigations, that we 
are losing over $100 billion a year to these offshore tax havens; 
billions of dollars more to abusive tax shelters. I have shown on the 
floor of the Senate many times pictures of European sewer systems, and 
people have asked me: What has that got to do with the budget of the 
United States? Well, it turns out it increasingly has something to do 
with the budget of the United States because we have the spectacle of 
wealthy investors here and companies here buying European sewer 
systems--not because they are in the sewer business but because they 
want to depreciate those assets on their books for U.S. tax purposes--
and they turn around and lease the sewer systems back to the European 
cities that built them in the first place.

I picked out sewer systems, because that is most graphic, but it 
doesn't end there. We actually have companies buying city halls in 
Europe and depreciating on their books for U.S. tax purposes here 
leasing those city halls back to the European cities that built them in 
the first place.

Some say if you go after that kind of scam, you are increasing 
somebody's taxes. Well, I suppose in some sense you are. But you know 
what. Shame on the people who are doing it. The vast majority of us pay 
what we owe. But unfortunately, we have an increasing group of 
companies and individuals who are dodging what they legitimately owe 
here and they are doing it in these offshore tax havens.

I have shown on many occasions a picture of this little five-story 
building in the Cayman Islands that claims to be the home to 14,000 
companies--14,000 companies. They say they are all doing business out 
of this little five-story building in the Cayman Islands. They are not 
doing any business out of there. They are doing monkey business. And 
the monkey business they are doing is to avoid their taxes in the 
United States. Shame on us if we don't close that down.

Some say: Well, this is a big spending budget--big spending. Really? 
That can only be the statement of people who haven't read this budget, 
because this budget takes domestic discretionary spending as a 
percentage of our gross


domestic product from 4.4 percent in 2010 to 3.4 percent in 2014. So as 
a share of our national income, domestic discretionary spending is 
going down.

Facts are stubborn things. Over the life of this budget, non-defense 
discretionary spending in dollar terms--in dollar terms--is being 
increased 2.9 percent a year. That is below the rate of growth of our 
national income. That is why, as a share of our economy, domestic 
discretionary spending is going down, not up. So when you hear claims 
this is a big spending budget, it is not this budget. They may be 
talking about some other budget, but the budget before us is the budget 
reported by the conference committee, and that budget is tough on 
spending, it is tough on deficits, it is tough on getting our country 
back on a more sustainable course.

We have a series of budget enforcement tools in this budget 
resolution that I am particularly proud of: discretionary caps for 2009 
and 2010. We maintain a strong pay-go rule. We have a point of order 
against long-term deficit increases; a point of order against short-
term deficit increases. We allow reconciliation for deficit reduction 
only. And we provide a point of order against mandatory spending on an 
appropriations bill.

This last one I want to emphasize I think is especially important. 
Because what we have found is our friends on the Appropriations 
Committee have found a new way around the rules here and they have 
started to put mandatory spending on discretionary spending bills. Let 
me be clear. Mandatory spending is for things such as Medicare, for 
Social Security. If you are eligible, if you qualify, you get your 
benefits. So that is called mandatory spending, and that is most of the 
spending of the Federal Government. Most of the spending is now 
mandatory spending. Medicare and Social Security are the biggest ones. 
We also have certain veterans benefits, which is mandatory spending for 
some of it, much of it discretionary.

Discretionary means under the discretion of the appropriations 
process each year. That is why it is discretionary. And discretionary 
spending, as I have indicated, is going down under this budget as a 
share of our gross domestic product. But we don't want mandatory 
spending to be increased in discretionary spending bills, and that 
started to happen a couple of years ago and we put this point of order 
in place to provide a barrier, a hurdle, against that bad practice.

We also have in this budget resolution provisions addressing our 
long-term fiscal challenges. I think everybody understands that health 
care is the 800-pound gorilla. Health care in our Federal accounts--
Medicare, Federal share of Medicaid, and other aspects of health care 
spending--is where we see spending of the Federal Government soaring 
and continuing to grow out of control. So there is the health care 
reform reserve fund that I previously described that is critically 
important to getting our fiscal future back in line.

We also provide program integrity initiatives to crack down on waste, 
fraud, and abuse in Social Security and Medicare. This is especially 
prevalent in Medicare. The previous Secretary--Secretary Leavitt--whom 
I had high regard for, came to see me one day. He had with him 
information about scams that were being conducted across the country to 
defraud Medicare, and he had pictures of phony operations in Florida 
that were in shopping malls where they had individual storefronts set 
up that were supposedly providing Medicare services, each of them 
billing $500,000 to $1 million a year in so-called services to 
Medicare-eligible patients.

When they pierced the veil, what they found was they weren't 
providing any services, they were just doing the billing. They were 
billing but they weren't providing any services. It was a complete 
scam. And there were dozens of them--dozens of these storefront 
operations. The Secretary himself went to some of them in the middle of 
the day and they were closed. They were closed for the public, but they 
were open for scam. We have provided funds to go after those kinds of 
fraudulent operations.

We have also provided a long-term deficit increase point of order to 
try to prevent any action by the Congress to increase the long-term 
deficit without facing a supermajority point of order hurdle.

Let me close on this quote by President Obama, because it is 
something I agree with very much. While I believe this budget has made 
good progress at getting our fiscal house back in order for the next 5 
years, we have to do much more--much, much more. President Obama said 
this at the Fiscal Responsibility Summit he hosted at the White House 
at the end of February:




 Now, I want to be very clear. While we are making important 


 progress towards fiscal responsibility this year, in this 


 budget, this is just the beginning. In the coming years, 


 we'll be forced to make more tough choices, and do much more 


 to address our long-term challenges.


That is true. We have got much more work to be done, especially in 
the second 5 years. This is a 5-year budget, because of the 34 budgets 
written by the Congress, 30 of the 34 have been 5-year budgets. The 
President sent us a 10-year budget. Some have asked why we didn't do a 
10-year budget. Very simply, because Congress almost always has done 5-
year budgets because we know that the projections for the second 5 
years are highly unreliable--highly unreliable. Frankly, a forecast for 
5 years is a bit of a crap-shoot.

I used to have the responsibility of forecasting the revenue for my 
State. I had to do it for 3 years. I know how difficult it was to do 
that for 3 years. Five years is extraordinarily difficult, especially 
at a time like this of dramatic economic changes and a very steep 
downdraft. The reality is that 10-year forecasts have very little 
reliability. So we have done a 5-year budget here. That, as I say, has 
been done 30 of the 34 times Congress has written a budget under the 
Budget Act. Thirty of the 34 times, it has been a 5-year budget.

I say to my colleagues, I believe this budget is part of economic 
recovery. We are facing very tough winds. We are facing a very tough 
economic environment--the steepest downturn since the Great 
Depression--and we are going to have to be aggressive in terms of 
preventing a deflationary spiral that could suck this economy down. We 
saw it in the Great Depression--a failure of Government to act 
effectively until tremendous damage had been done: the unemployment 
rate rose to 25 percent, the stock market fell by nearly 90 percent. We 
had a circumstance in which 25 percent of the people--more than 25 
percent of the people--were unemployed, with staggering devastation to 
the strength of America.

The Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Mr. Bernanke, has made it his 
life's work to study how to avoid another Great Depression. In his 
analysis, and others like it--as historians look back--the conclusion 
is there was a failure of the Government to act proactively. It waited 
too long. It believed the markets would correct themselves. It believed 
that somehow everything would work out without intervention. That 
proved to be a fatal mistake.

All of the elements of the Federal response have taken a different 
direction in this downturn, and it started with the previous 
administration, to their credit. The Federal Reserve has done a great 
deal to provide liquidity in this economy. Instead of pulling back, it 
has extended credit. The Federal Government, instead of pulling back in 
order to balance our budget in the short term, has put forward hundreds 
of billions of dollars in a stimulus package to provide an increase in 
aggregate demand to provide stimulation to the economy, to provide 
liquidity. Without it, I believe the collapse would be far steeper, far 
more serious, and far more threatening. And remember, what we are faced 
with is not just a national crisis, it is a global crisis, with global 
economic activity falling very dramatically all around the world. The 
response of almost every industrialized country has been like ours, to 
provide liquidity, to provide stimulus. China has a major stimulus 
program, Japan, and Europe; virtually all the countries of Europe. 
Russia has announced a major stimulus plan.

I believe those are the right policy responses, however imperfect--
and imperfect they are, the specific packages that have been developed. 
I myself thought we could have done much better in our stimulus 
package. I would have liked to have seen much more funding for 
infrastructure. I wanted much more funding for infrastructure


because I personally believe that is a place where you get a two-fer: 
You get a lift for the economy and you also get an investment that 
strengthens our economic competitive position for the future. But look, 
there was a substantial infrastructure component. I would have liked to 
have seen it be far bigger and more robust, but nonetheless, we are 
moving in the right direction.

This budget moves in the right direction. It is a contribution to 
economic recovery. It does preserve the President's key priorities of 
reducing our dependence on foreign energy, which must be done. It 
focuses on excellence in education, because if we are not the best 
educated, we are not going to be the strongest country in the world for 
very long. And it provides for fundamental health care reform--because 
that is the 800-pound gorilla that could swamp the fiscal boat of the 
United States, not to mention the boats of every American family and 
American companies that absolutely need cost containment--at the same 
time improving health care outcomes for the American people.

Finally, yes, dramatically reducing the deficit, reducing it by two-
thirds in dollar terms, by three-quarters as a share of the gross 
domestic product of the United States over the next 5 years.

This is not a perfect document. If I were able to write it just by 
myself I think I could have improved it. I think every Member here 
believes that; that if they were able to write this document it would 
be a better document.

That is not our option. We have a Senate, we have a House of 
Representatives, we have a President. This is the work of all three 
entities: The President of the United States, the Senate of the United 
States, the House of Representatives. I believe we have produced an 
important step in economic recovery.

I urge my colleagues to support the conference report. I yield the 
floor.