---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e6c9d1ec6fbe9593289e7aedc73e4c21`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, today, as we embrace the grave 
responsibility of debating an issue that will have profound impact on 
future American generations, it seems very appropriate to remind 
ourselves of the ideal that gave birth to this Nation in the first 
place. We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created 
equal and endowed by their Creator


with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and 
the pursuit of happiness.

Whether we realize it or not, most of the important discussions in 
this Chamber, including the one in this moment, center around whether 
we still believe those words.

In these hours, America finds herself at war with an expressively 
dangerous ideology that is the antithesis of those words and everything 
that is the American ideal. What concerns me most is that this war 
between an ideology committed to the absolute death to destroy freedom 
and subjugate the entire world, and the world's free people who still 
remain primarily asleep.

Mr. Speaker, this ideological war did not begin on 9/11. It began 
many years ago when certain Muslim extremists embraced a divergent 
Islamist dogma that dictates that all infidels must die. It was called 
then as it should be called now, jihad.

Thomas Jefferson was the first American President to send U.S. 
military force to war against Islamist jihad. The Marine hymn begins, 
''From the halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli,'' the latter 
being a reference to Jefferson's war against the Islamist Barbary 
pirates based in Tripoli, in present day Libya.

This is the same jihadist ideology that murdered Israeli athletes in 
1972, that took American hostages in Iran, that murdered Marines in 
their barracks in 1983, that bombed the World Trade Center in 1993, 
Riyadh in 1995, the Khobar Towers in 1996, the embassy in 1998, the USS 
Cole in 2000, and that brutally murdered scores of little 
schoolchildren on opening day in Beslan, Russia.

And then, Mr. Speaker, this same dark ideology massacred nearly 3,000 
Americans on September 11.

The ideology and practice of Islamist jihad is decapitating 
humanitarians with hacksaws on television while the victims scream for 
mercy, cowardly hiding behind women and children while launching 
rockets deliberately targeting innocent civilians, continually breaking 
treaties of peace, and forcing children to blow themselves to pieces to 
affect the murder of other innocents, and this, as their own mothers 
leap for joy as they do.



As we anticipate future actions of jihadists, we should all consider 
very carefully. Al Qaeda's al-Zawahiri said: ''The jihad movement is 
growing and rising. It reached its peak with the two blessed raids on 
New York and Washington. And now it is waging a great heroic battle in 
Iraq, Afghanistan, Palestine, and even the crusaders' own homes.''

Al-Manar said on BBC: ''Let the entire world hear me. Our hostility 
to the Great Satan, America, is absolute. Regardless of how the world 
has changed after September 11, death to America will remain our 
reverberating and powerful slogan: Death to America.''

Al-Zarqawi said of America's leaders: ''They are aware that if the 
Islamic giant wakes up, it will not be satisfied with less than the 
gates of Rome, Washington, Paris, and London.''

Al-Muhajir, Osama bin Laden's latest lieutenant in Iraq, said: ''The 
fire has not and will not be put out and our swords, which have been 
colored with your blood, are thirsty for more of your rotting heads.''

Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah, said, ''We have 
discovered how to hit the Jews where they are most vulnerable. The Jews 
love life; so that is what we shall take away from them. We are going 
to win because they love life and we love death.''

And then, Mr. Speaker, we hear a Democrat Member of this body say, 
''The savagery of terrorists is not relevant.'' Even the most senior 
Democrat in this House is quoted as saying ''I don't take sides for or 
against Hezbollah or for or against Israel.''

Mr. Speaker, a blind relativism that deliberately ignores all truth 
and equates merciless terrorism with free nations defending themselves 
and their innocent citizens is more dangerous to humanity than 
terrorism itself, and it is proof that liberals completely 
misunderstand the enemy that we face.

Osama bin Laden's deputy, al-Zawahiri, made clear shortly after 9/11 
in his book ''Knights Under the Prophet's Banner,'' al Qaeda's most 
important short-term strategic goal is to seize control of a state, or 
part of a state, somewhere in the Muslim world. He wrote, quote, 
''Confronting the enemies of Islam and launching jihad against them 
require a Muslim authority established on Muslim land. Without 
achieving this, our actions will mean nothing.''

Mr. Speaker, such a jihadist state would be the ideal launching pad 
for future attacks on the West.

Bin Laden himself once again has stated: ''The whole world is 
watching this war and the two adversaries. It is either victory and 
glory or misery and humiliation.''

Mr. Speaker, the terrorists regard Iraq as the central front in their 
war against humanity. And if we are to understand our enemy and this 
war, we must understand that Iraq is the central front in our war 
against jihad. Our courageous and noble soldiers understand that very 
well and our enemy definitely understands that.

Osama bin Laden himself has said, ''The most important and serious 
issue today for the world is this Third World War . . . It is raging in 
the land of the two rivers, Iraq. The world's millstone and pillar is 
in Baghdad, the capital of the caliphate.''

Mr. Speaker, if Democrats are correct that the struggle in Iraq is 
not crucial to the winning of the war against Islamist jihad, then for 
God's sake I wish they would explain that to the terrorists.

Brink Lindsey has put it all so succinctly. He said, ''Here is the 
grim truth: We are only one act of madness away from a social cataclysm 
unlike anything our country has ever known. After a handful of such 
acts, who knows what kind of civilization breakdown might be in 
store?''

Mr. Speaker, we simply can no longer deny that we are fighting a war 
against an insidiously dangerous and evil ideology that is bent on the 
destruction of the Western world, and they would like nothing better 
than to decapitate this country by detonating a nuclear blast 100 yards 
from here. And to allow jihadists to declare victory in Iraq will only 
serve to hasten such a day.

Mr. Speaker, the free nations of the world once had opportunity to 
address the insidious rise of the Nazi ideology in its formative years 
when it could have been dispatched without great cost. But they 
delayed, and the result was atomic bombs falling on cities, 50 million 
people dead worldwide, and the swastika's shadow nearly plunging this 
planet into Cimmerian night.

Winston Churchill's words of warning far preceded such tragic events. 
He said, ''If you will not fight when you can easily win without 
bloodshed, if you will not fight when your victory will be sure and not 
too costly, you may come to the moment when you will have to fight with 
all the odds against you and only a precarious chance of survival. 
There may be a worse moment. You may have to fight when there is no 
hope of victory because it is still better to perish than to live as 
slaves.''

If so-called enlightened Germans fell prey to the Nazi ideology, why 
do we not believe Third World Muslims can also fall prey in large 
numbers to this jihadist ideology? History does indeed repeat itself, 
Mr. Speaker, and each time the price goes up.

Jihadists believe they have a critical advantage over free people in 
the world. They believe their will is far stronger than ours and that 
they need only to persevere to break our resolve. Mr. Speaker, the 
message of this resolution has only encouraged them in that belief.

So today in this Chamber, we each have some grave questions to ask 
ourselves, and the answers will profoundly affect future American 
generations. We need to ask ourselves first, not whether the Nation 
should have gone to war but whether the Nation should lose this war.

Will jihadists break the will of the world's free people or not? Will 
they be able to hide long enough to gain access to nuclear or other 
weapons of mass destruction? If we do allow nations like Iran to gain 
nuclear weapons, what will we tell our children when they face nuclear 
jihad, perhaps even in this generation? If liberals in this body are 
willing to see freedom defeated in Iraq, are they willing to take 
responsibility for what will almost certainly follow? If this entire 
Nation was riveted and heartbroken when two airplanes hit two buildings 
in New York, how will we


feel when an entire American city is in nuclear flames?

If Speaker Pelosi and other Democrats are willing to vote against 
monitoring terrorist conversations on the telephone, or tracking their 
financial transactions, or protecting our border from terrorist 
insurgency, or effectively interrogating terrorists in custody, or 
sending reinforcements to our troops on the battlefield, then the 
question that cries for an answer is what are they willing to do to 
defeat Islamic terrorism? What is their plan?

Mr. Speaker, there is no substitute for victory. If we surrender Iraq 
to Islamist jihadists, we will supercharge their recruitment efforts in 
the Middle East and all over the planet, and our children will pay an 
unspeakable price, and history will condemn this generation for 
unspeakable irresponsibility in the face of such an obvious threat to 
human peace.

So, Mr. Speaker, before we vote on this resolution, may we consider 
carefully the words of Abraham Lincoln as he sought to steel the 
resolve of Americans in another great and historic struggle. He said, 
''Fellow citizens, we cannot escape history. We of this Congress and 
this administration will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No 
personal significance or insignificance can spare one or another of us. 
The fiery trial through which we pass will light us down, in honor or 
dishonor, to the last generation.