# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `e6f9b34342696533113b93efc659bbfb`
`Mr. SANDERS â€” 7 June 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. I thank the Chair.

In a moment, I want to talk about an amendment I will be offering 
with Senator Grassley to the immigration reform bill. That is amendment 
No. 1332. I should mention this amendment has been endorsed by the AFL-
CIO. It was endorsed by the Programmers Guild and by the Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers.

Before I speak about the amendment, it is important, as we debate the 
immigration bill, to talk about what is happening to the lives of 
Americans who live in the middle class and the working families of the 
country. I fear that in this long and complicated immigration bill, 
sometimes we lose track of the impact of this bill on the lives of 
American workers. This bill deals in a reasonable way in terms of 
dealing with the very serious problem of illegal immigration. It says 
we must strengthen our borders and not allow people to so easily come 
into the country. That is long overdue, and it is absolutely right. It 
says finally we must begin to hold employers accountable for the 
illegal immigrants they are hiring, something the Bush administration 
has been very reluctant to do. That is extremely important.

This bill also carves out a path to citizenship which, frankly, is 
the right thing to do. But also what this bill does not do is analyze 
effectively the impact of various aspects of this legislation--the 
guest worker program, H-1B program--on the lives of American workers. 
The basic premise under which this bill operates in those areas is a 
false one. What it says is there are


jobs out there, large numbers of jobs, that American workers won't 
take. I think that is true to some degree, but this bill grossly 
exaggerates that problem. Because the truth is, if employers paid 
living wages for jobs, we would be very surprised at the number of 
people in this country who would be delighted to hold those jobs. But 
if people are going to pay starvation wages and not provide health care 
or other benefits, yes, it is true American workers may not gravitate 
to those jobs.


The truth is, over the last many years, there has been a war going on 
in this country, and that is not the war in Iraq. It is not the war in 
Afghanistan. It is the war being waged against the American middle 
class, the American standard of living, and, indeed, the American dream 
itself. This is an issue, unfortunately, we do not discuss enough on 
the floor of the Senate. It is not discussed enough in the corporate 
media.

The American public understands that since President George Bush has 
been in office, over 5.4 million more Americans have slipped out of the 
middle class and into poverty. The American people understand that 
nearly 7 million more Americans have lost their health insurance, and 
we are now almost at the level of 47 million Americans without health 
insurance. The American people understand that for the average American 
family, their income has fallen by over $1,200 and 3 million more 
Americans have lost their pensions.

What does all of this have to do with the immigration bill? It has 
everything to do with the immigration bill, because we have to take a 
hard look at what various aspects of this bill do in terms of bringing 
workers into this country and what it means to people who are 
struggling on $8 or $9 an hour or, in fact, what it means to young 
people who someday aspire to hold a professional position. That is an 
issue we have not focused enough attention on.

Some people say: Yes, it is true, poverty is increasing. Yes, it is 
true, there are millions of people working at the minimum wage or near. 
But if you have a college degree, you don't have to worry. There are 
plenty of these good professional jobs out there that pay people good 
wages. The truth is, even college graduates in today's economy are not 
getting ahead. From the years 2000 through 2004, we have seen the wages 
of college graduates decline by 5 percent. According to a new study by 
researchers at MIT, earnings of the average American worker with an 
undergraduate degree have not kept up with gains in productivity over 
the last 25 years. In other words, despite an explosion in technology 
and worker productivity over the past 30 years, millions of American 
workers, including college graduates, are working longer hours for 
lower wages. In America today, the personal savings rate is below zero. 
People are spending more than is coming in. That has not happened since 
the Great Depression. Home foreclosures are at their highest level in 
nearly four decades.

What I fear the most is if we keep going in the direction in which we 
are moving now economically, what we are going to see is our children 
are going to have a lower standard of living than we do. In fact, 
according to a recent joint study by the Pew Charitable Trust and 
Brookings Institute, men in their thirties earned on average 12 percent 
less in 2004 than their fathers did in 1974, after adjusting for 
inflation. Incredibly, men today are earning less than their fathers 
did despite a huge explosion in technology and worker productivity.

In addition, it is important to note that over the last 6 years, this 
country has lost more than 3 million good-paying manufacturing jobs.

Why do I raise that within the context of an immigration bill? I 
raise that because the argument of all the large corporations that are 
supporting this legislation is: My goodness, we have a crisis in 
America. It is that wages are going down. It is not that more and more 
Americans are losing their health care and their pensions. The crisis 
is, supposedly, there are all these jobs out there--jobs in teaching, 
psychology, nursing, hotels, restaurants--and we cannot find American 
workers to do those jobs.

Let me tell the business community: Raise wages, provide decent 
benefits, and you are going to have all kinds of people flocking to 
those jobs.

During the debate over NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations 
with China--which I participated in as a Member of the House of 
Representatives--we were told by all the corporate interests who pushed 
that legislation on the Congress not to worry about the blue-collar 
jobs we would lose. I remember it distinctly. They said: Well, yes, it 
is true. If we open up our markets, yes, it is true we are going to 
lose a lot of these factory jobs. They are going to go to China, 
Mexico, whatever. But don't worry because if your kid does well in 
school, becomes computer proficient, your kid is going to have a great 
job out there at good wages. That is the future of America. Don't worry 
about the blue-color jobs. You have all these white-color information 
technology jobs.

Well, guess what is happening. From January of 2001 to January of 
2006, we have lost 644,000 information sector jobs. Alan Blinder, the 
former Vice Chairman of the Federal Reserve, has told us between 30 and 
40 million jobs in this country are in danger of being shipped 
overseas.

The middle class of this country is being squeezed 24 hours a day, 7 
days a week.

When Americans get up in the morning and they take their kids to 
daycare, they find the cost of childcare is unaffordable. That is 
certainly true in Vermont. It is true all over this country. Working 
families cannot afford quality childcare.

When they drive to work, and they stop at the gas station to fill up 
their gas tanks, what they are paying in Vermont now is $3.10 a gallon 
for gas, and in other parts of the country it is even higher. 
ExxonMobil earns record-breaking profits and manages to find $400 
million for a retirement settlement for their former CEO.

When workers go to their jobs, they are being squeezed as often as 
not by their employer who is cutting back on their health care and 
pension benefits. Then, if workers stand up for their jobs, they want 
to form a union, they are told that those jobs could go to China: So 
take your cutbacks.

When workers come home, they open up their mailbox only to find that 
the interest on their mortgage payments and their credit cards in some 
cases is doubling or tripling. There are working people in this country 
who are paying--if you can believe it--27, 28, 29 percent in interest 
rates, while big banks are making record-breaking profits.

When Americans go to the hospital, they are told by their insurance 
companies their premiums and copays will be going up or, even worse, 
they are not covered for the medical procedures they need.

When they want to send their kids to college, they look at the cost 
of tuition, and they find colleges costing $30,000, $35,000, $40,000, 
$45,000 a year, and people are making $30,000 a year. We are seeing 
kids in this country now--low-income kids--not going to college and 
others coming out deeply in debt.

Now, in the midst of all of that, we have this immigration bill, a 
bill that would allow employers to hire hundreds of thousands, if not 
millions, of workers from other countries in both low-skilled jobs and 
high-skilled jobs.

It is important to note--and this point has not been made often 
enough, but it is important to note many of the same corporate groups 
that supported NAFTA, that supported PNTR with China, and other 
disastrous trade agreements, that these same businesses that fought 
against an increase in the minimum wage, saying: Hey, $5.15 an hour, we 
don't have to go higher than that; these same companies that have 
outsourced hundreds of thousands of jobs to China, to Mexico, to 
Vietnam, to India, to other low-wage countries, these same companies 
are supporting this legislation.

Let's understand that, and let us ask why that is the case. Why are 
companies that opposed the minimum wage, that oppose the right of 
workers to form unions, that oppose anything that makes sense for the 
American middle class supporting this legislation?

Some of those groups are the National Restaurant Association, the 
Business Roundtable, the American Hotel & Lodging Association. These 
are all groups that opposed raising the minimum wage above $5.15 an 
hour, and they are sitting here saying: Well, we think this immigration 
bill is a good bill for us.



High-tech companies that have sent hundreds of thousands of jobs 
overseas, they think this legislation is good. Why? Why do they think 
it is good legislation? Well, if you listen to them, they will tell you 
two things: First, in terms of low-skilled jobs, they say they need 
foreign workers to do the jobs Americans will not do. In terms of high-
skilled jobs, they say they cannot find enough Americans who are smart 
enough, who are skilled enough, who are well educated enough to be 
engineers, to be scientists, to be mathematicians, et cetera.

In other words, corporate America tells us they need a new guest 
worker program because they cannot find any Americans for construction 
jobs, for manufacturing jobs, hotel jobs, restaurant jobs. Then they 
tell us they need more foreign agricultural workers because no American 
is willing to break their back working in the fields, picking 
strawberries or lettuce for poverty-level wages and no health care.

Then--this is what gets me--they tell us they need more H-1B visas 
because Americans are not smart enough to be computer professionals; 
engineers; university professors, they cannot find anybody to be a 
university professor; accountants--I guess Americans do not add very 
well--we cannot do that work; financial analysts; nurses, I guess we do 
not have the capability of producing nurses; psychologists, Americans, 
I guess, cannot do that; lawyers--lawyers--lawyers--my God, if there is 
anything the United States is capable of producing it is lawyers, but I 
guess we need more lawyers to come into this country; and elementary 
school teachers, I guess the young people who graduate from college in 
America are not quite qualified to be school teachers.

Now, if Americans will not take low-skilled jobs that pay poverty-
level wages and, presumably, if they are not smart enough to do high-
skilled jobs, I think the question we have to ask is: What kind of jobs 
are going to be available for the American people? Can't do low-skilled 
jobs; can't do high-skilled jobs. Hey, what is there for us?

I happen to think the Congress should be spending a lot more time 
discussing this issue and making it easier for us to create decent-
paying jobs for American workers instead of allowing corporate 
interests to drive wages down by importing more and more people to do 
the work Americans should be doing and, conversely, exporting and 
outsourcing a lot of decent jobs.

As someone who, as a young man, worked in a hotel and worked in a 
restaurant, I can tell you the guest worker provisions, for the most 
part, have nothing to do with a shortage of workers but have everything 
to do with a concerted effort by corporate America to drive down wages 
for our people.

Now, one of the largest corporations that is involved in an 
association in support of this legislation is Wal-Mart. I made this 
point yesterday, but I think it is worth repeating. Wal-Mart says, 
being a part of this association, that apparently there is a shortage 
of Americans willing to work at Wal-Marts. Well, let's take a look at 
that.

Two years ago, when Wal-Mart announced the opening of a new store in 
Oakland, CA, 11,000 people filled out applications for 400 jobs. I 
think most Americans know that Wal-Mart is not a great employer. Wages 
are low. In many instances, they do not provide 40 hours a week; health 
care benefits are not particularly good.

Oakland, CA: For 400 jobs, 11,000 people filled out applications. 
More recently, in January of 2006, when Wal-Mart announced the opening 
of a store in Evergreen Park outside Chicago, over 24,000 people 
applied for 325 jobs at that store. What does that tell us? It tells us 
that even in low-paying jobs, such as at Wal-Mart, when given the 
opportunity, Americans want those jobs. They want to make a living for 
their families.

So the idea Wal-Mart and other similar-type companies would say: Gee, 
we can't find workers to do that work, is just plain wrong. What they 
want to do is have a surplus of workers coming into this country so 
wages do not go up. So instead of having to raise wages and benefits, 
in order to attract workers and retain workers, what you do is simply 
open the door and you bring in more and more cheap labor. That enables 
them to keep wages low.

Then we have the situation with high-skilled jobs, with our 
professional jobs. Again, we have associations and organizations made 
up of different corporate groups that are strongly supporting this 
immigration bill, and they include, among others, companies such as 
Motorola, Dell, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Microsoft, Intel, and Boeing, to 
name a few. These are corporations with a main argument that we cannot 
find Americans to do this work, and we need to go all over the world to 
bring in people.

Well, I find it interesting that many of these same companies that 
tell us they cannot find workers in the United States are exactly the 
same companies that have recently announced major layoffs of thousands 
of American workers: We can't find workers. Oh, by the way, you are 
fired. We need more workers from abroad. Five hundred workers are gone. 
We are laying you off. It does not make a whole lot of sense to me.

Let me give you a few examples. A few days ago, the Los Angeles Times 
reported Dell would be eliminating 10 percent of its workforce, 
slashing 8,800 jobs. But Dell, last year, applied for nearly 400 H-1B 
visas to bring people into this country--at the same time they lay off 
8,800 workers. Maybe they might want to retrain some of those 8,800 
workers for these new positions, if possible, rather than simply 
bringing in new employees from abroad.

Dell is not alone. The Financial Times, on May 31, reported Motorola 
would be cutting 4,000 jobs, on top of an earlier 3,500 job reduction, 
designed to generate savings of $400 million. Yet last year, Motorola 
received 760 H-1B visas. The list goes on and on. It is IBM. It is 
Citigroup--companies bringing in foreign professional workers at the 
same time they are laying off American workers.

So we have a situation where, on one hand, these companies say they 
cannot find highly skilled American workers while, on the other hand, 
they are eliminating thousands of American jobs.

What upsets me is how our young people feel about this situation. 
These are kids who go to school--sometimes they borrow a lot of money 
to go to college--they work hard, and what they are looking forward to, 
whether through a BA or a BS or an MA or a Ph.D., is a good, secure, 
challenging, meaningful job with a decent income. What they are seeing 
is companies saying: We do not want you. We want somebody from abroad 
who will work at lower wages than you. I think that must be very 
discouraging for so many of our young people.

Madam President, the amendment I am offering today, along with 
Senator Grassley, is a pretty simple amendment. What it would do is it 
would prohibit companies that have announced mass layoffs from 
receiving new visas of any kind, unless these companies could prove 
that overall employment at their companies would not be reduced by 
these layoffs. In other words, we are calling their bluff, and we are 
saying: You can't lay off large numbers of American workers and then 
tell us you desperately need workers, professionals from abroad. Those 
companies which are truly experiencing labor shortages would not be 
impacted by this amendment and could continue to receive increases in 
foreign workers, but companies that are reducing their U.S. workforce 
by laying off thousands of Americans would be prevented from importing 
workers from abroad.


The bottom line is, the companies that are laying off thousands of 
Americans shouldn't be allowed to import workers from overseas. Let us 
stand up for the American people. Let us stand up for American workers. 
Let us support this amendment.