---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e711f87aa8222abc854ab4da07137e9c`
`Ms. SUTTON — 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. Mr. Speaker, throughout the course of history, when our 
Nation has faced its most significant debates over matters of war, 
there comes a time when voices of pundits and politicians must drop 
away and allow the voices of the people to be heard.

Our troops are brave and capable. They have fought heroically and 
this resolution makes it unequivocally clear that those of us who feel 
it incumbent to oppose the President's escalation nonetheless support 
our troops. All of us, and all Americans, support our troops.

But Congress also has an oversight responsibility to ensure that they 
are provided a mission based on a realistic assessment and an 
achievable goal before we ask them to risk life and limb to implement 
it.

The President has asked Congress to support his escalation plan to 
send another 20,000 troops to Iraq.

This war is now almost 4 years long. Congress has not spoken as 
loudly and as clearly as its responsibility requires. As the 
Representative of the 13th District of Ohio, I cannot sit silent. I 
oppose the President's plan for escalation and I fully support this 
resolution.

The President's own military commanders have advised against this 
course of action, and in November, my constituents and the American 
people voted for a change of direction in Iraq. Escalation is directly 
contradictory to that call for change. It takes us further down the 
wrong path, deeper and deeper, with a policy that asks our military to 
perform a nonmilitary mission of creating a unified government in Iraq.

But unity in Iraq has to be determined by the people who live there. 
It is neither fair nor just to ask our troops to fix a sectarian civil 
war.

Our Nation has paid a high price: the lives of 3,000 American troops 
lost; $379 billion spent, with another $8 billion every month of this 
war.

These lives cannot be retrieved; 139 brave men and women from Ohio 
have been killed, 14 from my district. I have a responsibility to every 
one of those casualties and to every one that might lie ahead, to 
represent their voices, especially those that can no longer be heard.

In early August 2005, Lance Corporal Edward ''Augie'' Schroeder II 
was killed in Iraq. Augie and 13 other young lives from Northeast Ohio 
were lost that day. In January 2006, Augie's father, Paul Schroeder, 
shared his thoughts and feelings in a letter to the Washington Post 
entitled, ''A Life Wasted.'' He said, ''Since August we have witnessed 
growing opposition to the Iraq war, but it is often whispered, hands 
covering mouths as if it is too dangerous to speak too loudly. Others 
discuss the never-ending cycle of death in places like Haditha in 
academic and sometimes clinical fashion, as in 'the increasing 
lethality of improvised explosive devices.' ''

Wiping the clinical talk away, Paul Schroeder went on to share the 
painful reality that he and his family face, a reality that cannot be 
understood when sanitized by clinical terms. He said, ''Listen to the 
kinds of things that most Americans don't have to experience: The day 
Augie's unit returned from Iraq to Camp Lejeune we received a book of 
his notebooks, DVDs and clothes from his locker in Iraq. The day his 
unit returned home to waiting families, we received the second urn of 
ashes. This lad of promise, of easy charm and readiness to help, whose 
highest high was saving someone, using CPR as a First Aid squad 
volunteer, came home in one coffin and two urns. We buried him in three 
places that he loved, a fitting irony, I suppose, but just as rough 
each time.''

Mr. Speaker, the growing opposition to the war in Iraq must not be 
whispered, hands covering mouths as if it is too dangerous to speak too 
loudly. Accountability and oversight require more. This resolution 
rings loud and clear. We support our troops and we oppose the 
President's plan to escalate in Iraq.

Will the President hear our collective voice? If he does not, it will 
not be because we sat silent