---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `e717dabcf9fb8124c1dea10cc4d96116`
`Mr. BARRASSO — 20 June 2008`

---


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute and express 
our Nation's deepest gratitude to a remarkable young soldier and his 
family. I was saddened to receive word last week that on June 8, 2008, 
Army SSG Tyler E. Pickett of Saratoga, WY, was killed in the line of 
duty while serving our country in the war on terrorism. Staff Sergeant 
Pickett died from injuries he sustained when his unit came under attack 
by enemy forces using improvised explosive devices in Kirkuk Province, 
Iraq. He was serving his second tour of duty in Iraq, and had also 
served a tour in Afghanistan.

Staff Sergeant Pickett served with the 2nd Battalion, 22nd Infantry 
Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team, of the 10th Mountain Division out of 
Fort Drum, NY. He moved to Wyoming at the age of 14 and joined the Army 
shortly after his graduation from Saratoga High School in 1999. His 
mother said that serving his country in the Army was always a part of 
his plan. He came from a family with a strong history of military 
service, and he knew what he wanted to do. He made friends everywhere 
he went, and it didn't matter where he was--he was always touching 
someone's life. He looked forward to retiring from the service one day 
and spending his life in the mountains of Wyoming.

It is because of Tyler Pickett that we continue to live safe and 
free. America's men and women who answer the call to service and wear 
our Nation's uniform deserve respect and recognition for the enormous 
burden that they willingly bear. They put everything on the line 
everyday, and because of them and their families, our Nation remains 
free and strong in the face of danger.

This past weekend, Americans celebrated Flag Day. Like so many before 
him, Staff Sergeant Pickett fought under the flag of the United States 
of America. He fought and died for the Republic for which it stands. 
Words cannot express the gratitude we owe him.

In the book of John, Jesus said that, ''Greater love has no man than 
this, that he lay his life down for his friend.'' SSG Tyler Pickett 
gave his life, that last full measure of devotion, for you, me, and 
every single American. He gave his life defending his country and its 
people, and we honor him for this selfless sacrifice.

Staff Sergeant Pickett is survived by a loving family including his 
wife Kristin and their children, his mother Sheri Peterson and father 
Ed Pickett. He is also survived by his brothers and sisters in arms of 
the U.S. Army. We say goodbye to devoted family man and an American 
soldier. Our Nation pays its deepest respect to SSG Tyler E. Pickett 
for his courage, his love of country, and his sacrifice, so that we may 
remain free. He was a hero in life and he remains a hero in death. All 
of Wyoming, and indeed the entire Nation, is proud of him. May God 
bless him and his family and welcome him into his home on high.
