# None
## `e72081c53025df34d23e5393d1e82a63`
`Mr. ISAKSON â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I rise to address the issue before the 
Senate. I have stayed all night and listened to remarks from my 
colleagues on both sides. I have tremendous respect for each and every 
one of them.

I do have some issues, however, with some rhetorical questions that 
have been asked and not responded to and I think are some voices that 
have been referred to that have not been really answered that I would 
like to address in my few minutes.

First of all, the Levin-Reed amendment specifically calls for a 
withdrawal beginning 120 days from now and completed by the spring of 
next year. Unconditional, notwithstanding whatever action may be taking 
place on the ground, what progress may or may not have been made, a 
precipitous and a final withdrawal.

What I would like to talk about is something that no one has 
mentioned; that is, the consequences if that actually takes place. I 
would like to do it in the context of the rhetorical question that was 
asked by the Senator from New Jersey, who asked the question: How many 
more lives?

His reference, I know, was to the soldiers in the American and the 
allied forces in Iraq. But the question is meritorious as a response to 
the consequences of a Levin-Reed amendment passing.

I joined the Foreign Relations Committee this year, as the Presiding 
Officer has as well. I noted that he did what I did. He sat through 
almost all of the hearings we had in January and February on the 
question of the surge and the question of withdrawal and redeployment. 
We all heard the same thing. Expert after expert argued over whether 
the surge would or would not work, or the degree to which it would 
work.

But no one, no one--from former Secretary Madeline Albright or former 
Secretary Colin Powell to John Murtha, the representative in the 
Congress, to Newt Gingrich, the former Speaker, all of whom testified, 
and 20 others, everyone said the result of a withdrawal or redeployment 
at that period in January would mean countless untold loss of life in 
Iraq. And most of them said it would cause a great loss of life in the 
entire Middle East.

I have had visits from representatives of other Middle Eastern 
countries who have said: Please do not have a precipitous withdrawal 
because we will not be able to contain the sectarian violence that will 
certainly follow.

Now, does that mean we should remain as an occupying peacekeeper? No. 
But it means if we have objectives and benchmarks for victory, we 
should give ourselves the chance for that to take place.

In May of this year, we had the debate we are having again today. In 
May of this year, on the Iraqi supplemental--which was to fund the war 
in Iraq for our soldiers--we had this debate on whether we should 
withdraw. We decided not to do it. And that was the right decision. We 
further decided to put some benchmarks, that we should judge the merits 
of our progress in part by July 15, and then later on September 15. The 
President reported 3 days early on July 15 the progress that has been 
made.

Some has been made, some has not been made. But we all determined 
that it would be September, and the report of General Petraeus, the man 
we unanimously put in charge of the battle, as to whether we went 
forward, proceeded the way we were or changed our strategy.

I do not know what the results of the September 15 report are going 
to be, but I know I agree with the lady by the name of Lucy Harris. 
Lucy is the kind of person to whom we ought to all listen. Her son, 
Noah, 1LT Noah Harris, died in Iraq 2 years ago. He was an e-mail buddy 
with me during his tour, so I knew a little bit about why he was there 
and what he believed.

Noah Harris was a young man who, on September 11, 2001, was at the 
University of Georgia and a cheerleader. The day the incident, terrible 
incident took place in New York City, Noah Harris went straight to Army 
ROTC as a junior ROTC, applied for ROTC, studied to become a 
commissioned officer, solely because of the inspiration he had gotten 
from seeing that tragedy and knowing that he wanted to represent his 
country and do something to pursue terrorism.

He went in the Army in 2004, was on the ground in Iraq, became known 
as the Beanie Baby Soldier because in the one pocket he carried 
bullets, in the other he carried Beanie Babies. He befriended the Iraqi 
children.

Noah died tragically. I went to his funeral. I paid respect to his 
parents. I have listened to Lucy, and I have followed her comments in 
the 2 years that have passed since his tragic loss.

This week, on July 15, in the Columbus newspaper in Georgia and other 
newspapers in a syndicated article, Ms. Harris was interviewed 
regarding the current debate that we are having on the floor of the 
Senate. I would like to quote two quotes from that article. First quote 
from Lucy Harris:




 ''They should just defer to Petraeus,'' Lucy Harris said of 


 GEN David Petraeus, the commander of forces in Iraq. ''It's a 


 political game.''


Mr. President, I would ask unanimous consent to have printed in the 
Record this entire article.