# None
## `e724866ee30ac5191f508021f77f1cfa`
`Mr. BACA — 14 May 2007`

---


Mr. BACA. Thank you very much, Mr. Gonzalez, for carrying this issue 
this afternoon, and thank you very much, Mr. Speaker.

I rise to honor the more than 69,300 legal permanent residents who 
are currently serving in the United States Armed Services, which 
represents 43 percent noncitizens and 5 percent of the armed services 
who are serving now.

Their courage, their honor and their sacrifices prove what we've 
always known, that you don't have to be born in America to love 
America. Each and every person who serves in the Armed Forces generally 
loves his country and is willing to give their ultimate sacrifice. And 
these individuals gave their ultimate sacrifice for this country, for a 
dream of coming here.

Each individual was prepared to lay down his or her life to protect 
what is sacred to all of us, hope, freedom and opportunity, not only 
for them, but for all of us who believe in this country, because we 
know ultimately every person who has served in our military has been 
willing to lay down their lives so that we can enjoy the freedoms, the 
freedoms that we have today. And the 69,300, 43 percent noncitizens, or 
5 percent of the United States, believed in the same sacrifice as other 
individuals who have served us. They know that our freedom comes from 
men and women who are willing to serve this great Nation.

When I look at the names of immigrant soldiers who've died in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, it makes me realize why America is the greatest 
country in the world. And when we look at those individuals who served 
in World War II, the 500-some thousand, how many of those were 
noncitizens and immigrants?

And when we look at my district, or the State of California, 26 
foreign-born soldiers from my State have given their lives in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. And they come from all over the world. But whether they 
come from El Salvador, Korea, Mexico, Jamaica or Honduras, when they 
put on that United States military uniform, they do it as Americans and 
with pride.

Douglas Jose Marencoreyes, a young man from my district, was an 
immigrant to this country from Nicaragua. Corporal Marencoreyes came to 
this country with his family in search of opportunity and hope. Yet he 
was willing to serve in the Armed Forces when many others were not even 
willing to serve. And yet he found that by serving in the military that 
it was an honor.

The same goes for Sergeant Jorge Alberto Molinabautista, an immigrant 
from Mexico who lived in my hometown of Rialto, California. Both of 
these young men died while serving in the global war on terror. And 
they did so proudly, with honor, with honor for what they believed and 
what this country stands for, for the freedoms, so they know that their 
children and others can enjoy the freedoms that we have, because this 
is the greatest Nation, the greatest country; and they knew it and they 
served for this country.

Both men were posthumously awarded citizenship for their service to 
this Nation. Why? Because nothing would have honored the sacrifices 
more than to be recognized and acknowledge their love for this country.

Mr. Speaker, our country is currently engaged in a great debate 
regarding immigration. And there are many who want to diminish or even 
deny the great contributions of immigrants to our Nation's history, 
economy, and culture. And many of these have contributed and continue 
to contribute to our country because they believe in this country. They 
come here for hope, for freedom and opportunity and are willing to 
serve and die for this country.

But as we move forward in this debate, let us not forget the 69,300 
immigrants soldiers out there in the battlefields, those who are 
willing to risk their lives every day to protect the same people who 
are criticizing them, the same people who are criticizing, they're 
willing to stand up and defend those individuals because they believe 
in the principles and the freedoms and opportunities of this country.

I urge the American people to support all troops, all individuals and 
the sacrifices of every one of our soldiers, regardless of where they 
were born, because at the end of the day they are willing to give their 
lives for this country and to sacrifice for this country. Each one of 
them are patriots and are true American heroes.