---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2082, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e729622250f40dab19f515e76e09689b`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Mr. Speaker, as the Clerk just read, House Resolution 388 provides 
for consideration of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2008 under a structured rule.

The rule makes in order a total of ten amendments, almost half of 
which will be offered by Members of the minority, including one which 
will be offered by the ranking member of the House Permanent Select 
Committee on Intelligence, Representative Hoekstra.

The rule also makes in order an amendment that I offered, along with 
my colleague on the Intelligence Committee, Representative Rogers of 
Michigan, and our bipartisan amendment is a commonsense solution to 
holding the Office of National Director of intelligence accountable for 
its actions.

The House will have a chance to debate our amendment later today, and 
I hope my colleagues will support it.

I would like to point out that Members who wish to do so, as the 
Chair of the Intelligence Committee has pointed out previously, can go 
to the Intelligence Committee office to examine the classified schedule 
of authorizations for the programs and activities of the intelligence 
and intelligence-related activities of the national and military 
intelligence programs.

The importance of the intelligence community touches all Americans as 
our Nation's first line of defense against increasing world threats. 
Effective intelligence is the first method to protect our citizens and 
prevent debacles like the war in Iraq.

The underlying legislation authorizes funding for all United States 
intelligence agencies, including the national and military intelligence 
programs. It is the largest intelligence authorization bill ever 
considered by the House and takes significant steps to eliminate 
duplication and ineffectiveness in our intelligence agencies.

The bill increases funding to improve human intelligence, training 
and send additional intelligence analysts overseas to maximize their 
abilities. It also requires additional intelligence reports on North 
Korea and Iranian efforts to become nuclear capable. We also take 
significant steps to improve the collecting, deciphering and 
understanding of intelligence.

The effectiveness of our intelligence community is significantly 
jeopardized when the diversity of the intelligence community does not 
reflect the diverse world in which we live. Women and minorities 
continue to be disproportionately underrepresented in the senior ranks 
and the core mission areas of analysis, human intelligence collection, 
and science and technology.

Simply put, we still do not have an intelligence community that looks 
like our country or the world. Minorities make up 37 percent of the 
American population, yet only 21 percent of the intelligence community, 
and the numbers for African-Americans and Latinos is woefully below 
that number. This is a problem that is addressed in the underlying 
bill, which requires the development of a strategic plan to increase 
diversity within the intelligence community and mandates increased 
diversity among the rank and file of the community.

I am fond of saying in the Intelligence Committee hearings that it 
doesn't take more degrees than the thermometer to be a spy, but 
somebody back there decided that that must have been the case.

Another significant concern exacerbated by this lack of diversity is 
a deficiency of linguist abilities in the intelligence community. There 
are countless stories of intelligence tapes that had piled up in the 
months leading up to September 11 when the terrorist attacks occurred 
here. That was done because we didn't have anyone to translate them.

Experts and administrators lament the fact that we don't have enough 
Arabic, Farsi, Urdu or Dari speakers, and we always go in that 
direction, but we don't have enough Asian language speakers, either, in 
the intelligence community and the military.

How can we expect to completely correct that course without 
thoroughly modernizing the recruitment, selection and security 
clearance processes to quickly bring on board people with these 
critical skills? The underlying bill provides for the commonsense 
modernization of our security clearance procedures to address this 
growing problem, requiring that the system make more efficient use of 
those who are proficient in foreign languages or with cultural, 
linguistic or other subject matter expertise that is critical to 
national security. We must make these necessary modernizations to adapt 
to the ever-changing threats around us.

Finally, following the recommendations of 11 three- and four-star 
generals, the bill requests that the National Intelligence Council 
produce a National Intelligence Estimate on the national security 
impact of global climate change. Some of my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle have expressed discontent with this provision, 
because they believe that enough research is currently under way about 
climate change. In doing so, in my judgment, they failed to recognize 
that climate change is impacting global security.

Just look at the Middle East, the battle for scarce resources among 
those who have been displaced, particularly in Iraq, has the potential 
to generate sociopolitical environments that foster the creation of 
terrorist cells. If we can't even agree on the implications of climate 
change, it is obvious that more research is necessary, especially 
observing the impact of climate change on the movement of people and 
resources, and how that connects to terrorism.

Footnote right there, I pointed out in the Rules Committee that Iraq 
would be the classic example of what I am talking about. There are 2 
million refugees, and it is almost like it is kind of hidden, that are 
displaced from their homes in Iraq. There are 400,000 to 500,000 
internally displaced in Iraq. Yet, what we find is they are being 
pushed into Syria, Jordan and Egypt where there are already significant 
water resource problems. Someone tell me how that doesn't equate to an 
environment where terrorists will be produced.

If we can't agree on this, I can assure you that we are going to have 
significant problems in the future. Even the National Defense 
University has recognized these implications by prioritizing response 
to large-scale national disasters in some of its most recent training 
simulations. As scientists explore the connection between such 
disasters and climate change, it is imperative that the national 
security implications of such events be thoroughly understood.

I am glad that our committee addresses this issue in the bill. If we 
have learned anything from the failures of the war in Iraq, it is that 
reliable intelligence is critical to ensuring America's national 
security.

I am pleased to support this rule and urge my colleagues to do the 
same.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.