---
---

# None
## `e7370615f0990fdc6e2e77bf632dba19`
`Ms. HIRONO — 9 October 2007`

---


Ms. HIRONO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 400, the War 
Profiteering Prevention Act of 2007. I am a proud cosponsor of this 
legislation, introduced by my colleague from Hawaii Neil Abercrombie. 
This bill would prohibit profiteering and fraud relating to contracts 
executed by the United States Government or a provisional authority for 
the provision of goods and services in support of U.S. missions 
overseas. This long overdue legislation will help correct the 
unconscionable and unpatriotic defrauding of the United States 
government, our armed services, and American taxpayers. Unfortunately, 
the problem of contractor fraud has proliferated in the past 4 years.

The United States has spent over $50 billion on contracts thus far in 
Iraq to provide for support services, security, infrastructure 
construction, and reconstruction work. Much of this spending has been 
under no-bid or cost-plus contracts. As a result of inadequate 
planning, control, enforcement, and prosecution, the free-spending, 
former Coalition Provisional Authority could not account for $8.8 
billion of that money. Allegations about rampant waste, over-billing, 
and outright fraud have been reported time and time again, but no 
action has been taken to correct this waste of taxpayer dollars.

Unfortunately, current law does not explicitly extend 
extraterritorial jurisdiction for contract fraud on contracts executed 
by the U.S. Government or any provisional authority supporting a U.S. 
mission abroad. As a result, numerous instances of fraud have been 
committed and inspectors general have initiated hundreds of 
investigations of alleged fraudulent practices, including illegal 
kickbacks, bid-rigging, embezzlement, faulty construction, and 
fraudulent over-billing.

We need to toughen the laws which apply to individuals and 
corporations who have placed personal profit and greed over the 
interests of American taxpayers and our men and women serving in the 
armed services. While most private contractors are not overcharging the 
government and are providing good value with their goods and services, 
others are engaged in fraud and waste, costing the American taxpayers 
billions of dollars that could be spent on domestic needs, including 
funds that could have gone to our underfunded schools, health clinics, 
infrastructure, and environmental programs.

Even when the government does act to enforce fraud statutes on the 
books, it has been stymied by the inadequacy of current law. The 
infamous case against Custer Battles, an American contractor in Iraq 
found to have committed 37 acts of fraud, is a case in point. Custer 
Battles was one of a few contractors that was actually prosecuted and 
was ordered to pay $10 million in damages. However, it was allowed to 
walk away scot-free when a federal judge overturned the verdict on a 
technicality. The court found that United States fraud law did not 
apply to this contractor since the contract went through the Coalition 
Provisional Authority which the court held was not part of the United 
States government. The incompetence of this administration not only 
permitted fraud against the U.S. but allowed the perpetrator to escape 
punishment.

To successfully prosecute these individuals and corporations, H.R. 
400 provides clear and unambiguous legal authority to criminalize this 
unconscionable behavior on the part of greedy, corrupt contractors and 
provides a mechanism for successful prosecution. We are talking about 
prosecuting contractors who willfully and intentionally defraud the 
government, not those who merely make a business mistake. We should 
have no sympathy or leniency for those who purposely defraud taxpayers.

This is not a partisan issue. As Americans, we should all stand 
together to put an end to greed and corruption in our government 
programs, which hurts the troops on the ground, undermines the efforts 
of our armed forces, enriches the greedy and corrupt, and steals from 
the American taxpayer. This must end, H.R. 400 is a major step to bring 
accountability to the contracting process.