# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `e74a27088a5e762eeb3925a3419b8e62`
`Mr. DORGAN — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, midday today during our Democratic 
Caucus, when we learned our colleague Senator Kennedy is now facing 
some very serious health problems, it is an understatement to say we 
were all shocked by that news and saddened by it.

Senator Kennedy has for decades been a major presence in this Senate 
Chamber. He is a friend, a colleague, and all of us have said prayers 
today for his recovery.



Senator Kennedy has faced much adversity in his life, but he has also 
contributed so much to this country. I know he will meet this challenge 
with the same strength and the same grace he has met other challenges. 
It is my purpose today to say it is my prayerful hope, and I know the 
prayerful hope of all Members of this Chamber, that in the row behind 
me and four desks to my left we will once again at some point in the 
future see Senator Kennedy among us to continue his service to his 
country.

My thoughts and prayers are with our colleague for a full recovery.

Madam President, I wish to visit for a few moments on the piece of 
legislation in front of us which includes the GI bill. We have had a GI 
bill in this country for many decades. There is a new GI bill in the 
underlying legislation that is brought to the floor of the Senate. I am 
so proud to be a cosponsor of it and to be a part of what so many in 
this Chamber have put together. The GI bill is such an important part 
of what this country does and says to those who serve this country.

This weekend I traveled, and at an airport in Minneapolis there was a 
family--a man, a woman, and three children; three very young children--
getting on the same plane I was boarding. They were from North Dakota 
but they lived on a military base in Georgia. The wife came up to me 
and said hello. She said: My husband has done three deployments in 
Iraq. I hope--I so hope--that you can find a way to end this war.

This is a woman who has watched her husband leave for Iraq three 
times; a woman who is taking care of her three young children while her 
husband is deployed three times to the country of Iraq. I visited with 
her husband and her children, and I know that family is proud to serve 
their country. I know the entire family is proud of that soldier's 
service. But I also know the costs of that service, because you could 
see it in the eyes of that soldier's spouse.

Also on Saturday morning I went to an event in one of our cities. It 
was a homecoming event for 35 soldiers who had just come back from 
deployment in Afghanistan. These were National Guard soldiers. They too 
were so proud to have served their country, and some of them had been 
deployed twice; two deployments to Iraq or Afghanistan. One or two had 
been on their third deployment. Their families were there and all of 
them were enormously relieved and pleased to have their loved ones 
home.

I was thinking about those events: meeting a family at an airport, a 
soldier who is stationed in Georgia but who is a North Dakota native, 
and visiting with the family members at the National Guard event and 
saying thank you to them from a grateful nation.

I was thinking about a day much earlier when I was asked to present 
medals earned by an American Indian who served in the Second World War 
but had never received his medals. His name was Edmund Young Eagle. He 
was a Standing Rock Sioux Indian. He was someone who enlisted in the 
Army in the Second World War and went to war. He served in northern 
Africa, Normandy, and across Europe. He served with great distinction 
as an American soldier in some very difficult fighting.

He then came back to the Indian reservation and lived kind of a tough 
life. He never had very much. He never married. He never had very much 
in his life, but he lived a good life nonetheless. At the end of his 
life, he was in the veterans home and then got sick and was put in the 
veterans hospital in Fargo, ND. His sister contacted my office and 
asked if her brother could receive the medals he had earned during the 
Second World War but had never received. We said of course. On a Sunday 
morning in Fargo, ND, I went to the veterans hospital with the medals 
for Edmund Young Eagle. The doctors and the nurses and others from the 
hospital crowded into his hospital room that Sunday morning. Edmund was 
sick with lung cancer. I didn't know it at the time, but he didn't have 
many days left. He died about a week later of lung cancer. But on that 
morning he was fully aware of what was happening, and I was there 
granting the wish of his sister to get the medals from the Department 
of Defense that Edmund Young Eagle had earned in the Second World War. 
We cranked his hospital bed up to a seated position and then I pinned a 
row of medals on Edmund Young Eagle's pajama top there at the veterans 
hospital and told him: Thank you from a grateful nation for serving 
this country in the Second World War. This very sick man looked up at 
me and said: This is one of the proudest days of my life. He died about 
a week later. But he served his country and was enormously proud of it.


There are so many circumstances around this country where one by one 
or in groups we honor our soldiers because they put on America's 
uniform. This morning, soldiers halfway around the world not only put 
on a uniform, but put on body armor and went out in harm's way, some to 
be shot at. They didn't ask why; they just did what their country asked 
them to do.

Now the question is: When it is all over, when they come home and 
their service is done, what will their country say then? What will 
their country say to them, other than thank you?

What we said in the Second World War with a GI bill was when those 
soldiers came home, we offered them an opportunity to go to college, to 
help them to be able to purchase a home. So a substantial number of 
returning soldiers went to college and got a college degree. They went 
back home and married their sweetheart. They built a home. They built a 
community. They built their churches. They expanded the middle class. 
They created an economic boom in this country. Later, it was estimated 
that for every dollar we spent on the GI bill, $7 was returned because 
it was an unbelievably good investment for our country.

Senator Webb, Senator Warner, Senator Hagel, Senator Murray, and so 
many others--myself included--as cosponsors of this bill have said it 
is time again to write a GI bill that is appropriate for wartime and 
for returning veterans. When soldiers return and become veterans, the 
question is: What will the GI bill offer for them? How will we invest 
in their lives, and thereby invest in this country?

The previous GI bill was the Montgomery bill written during 
peacetime. Frankly, it does not do what we have historically been able 
to do and willing to do for those who serve our country, in addition to 
saying thank you. The Montgomery bill existed--and we are pleased it 
did--but this new GI bill is something very different. It tries to say 
to soldiers, as we did some 60 years ago, not only thank you, but we 
want to invest in your lives and invest thereby in this country. It is 
a new GI bill. It allows an opportunity to go to college and to be able 
to pay the in-State cost of college with a stipend for living during 
that period of time that you get your college degree. It invests in the 
lives of those who have invested their lives in this country. This is a 
very important piece of legislation.

I am told there are some who now come to the floor of the Senate, 
nearing three-quarters of a trillion dollars having been spent on 
emergency supplemental appropriations bills requested by President Bush 
to prosecute the war in Iraq and in Afghanistan, and say: Well, we can 
afford that and we have to do that on an emergency basis, but we don't 
have the money to try to help veterans when they come home. A veterans 
program is the cost of war.

It is the cost of war. How does anyone say that somehow the three-
quarters of a trillion dollars for so many hundreds and thousands of 
different accounts and contractors and replenishment of various 
accounts is more important than the single account of the GI bill, 
which says we want to invest in our soldiers? How does anybody say 
those myriad other accounts are more important than investing in our 
soldiers when they become veterans? I don't understand that. It makes 
no sense.

It is a significant claim and priority for this country to understand 
that part of the cost of war is to provide health care that is promised 
to veterans and a GI bill this country can be proud of, which invests 
in those veterans and our country. That is what this bill is about. 
This new GI bill is every bit as important--perhaps more important--
than any other provision that exists in this large emergency 
supplemental requested by this President.

The Congress undoubtedly, at some point, in some way, will enact this 
legislation providing for some supplemental appropriations. When it 
does, in


my judgment, it must do more than just say thank you to veterans, as we 
do, but it must invest in veterans, which this new GI bill will do. 
This makes a lot of sense for our country.

I commend especially those I have mentioned previously, including 
Senators Webb, Warner, Hagel, Murray, and so many others. I am proud to 
be one among them to say that this too is a priority for this country. 
I hope when the sun sets at the end of this week, if we have passed 
this legislation called the emergency supplemental appropriations bill, 
it will include something that ought to give all of us a reason to be 
proud and that it will include a new GI bill to say to veterans in this 
country: You matter. It matters to us what you did for our country. I 
hope we manifest that by passing a new GI bill in the name of their 
service.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.