# None
## `e74cf6970c8c4fe8a39ff17167ac1438`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

H. Res. 522 provides for consideration of H.R. 1886, the Pakistan 
Enduring Assistance and Cooperation Enhancement Act of 2009, and H.R. 
2410, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2010 and 
2011. Both bills are debatable for 1 hour each, equally divided and 
controlled by the Chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs.

The rule on H.R. 1886 self-executes as a manager's amendment to 
resolve jurisdictional concerns in the bill and legislation providing 
for Afghanistan-Pakistan security and prosperity enhancement. It also 
makes in order an amendment in the nature of a substitute authored by 
Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen, which is debatable for 30 minutes.

The rule for H.R. 2410 makes in order 27 amendments listed in the 
Rules Committee report. Each amendment is debatable for 10 minutes, 
except the manager's amendment, which is debatable for 20 minutes. The 
rule includes a motion to recommit with or without instructions.

Mr. Speaker, the United States is faced with many challenges on the 
world stage. It is critical that Congress put forth the necessary 
funding to help rebuild our diplomatic capabilities abroad and mitigate 
the damage that was done under the previous administration's 
leadership.

H.R. 2410, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 
2010 and 2011, is the first foreign relations-related authorization 
bill to reflect essential democratic priorities since 1993. As such, it 
provides a new direction forward and vital resources to boost our 
diplomatic capacity, improve our relations around the world, protect 
our national security, and make use of America's smart power, rather 
than rely on the military only solutions of past Congresses and the 
previous administration.

H.R. 2410 and H.R. 1866, the Pakistan Enduring Assistance and 
Cooperation Enhancement Act of 2009, together, set forth a progressive 
foreign affairs agenda that emphasizes diplomatic, economic and social 
efforts at change, not just the use of military force.

For years the Department of State has been denied critical resources 
to


fulfill its core diplomatic missions in furthering our global interests 
and protecting our national security. In neglecting diplomacy, we have 
missed opportunities to prevent and mitigate conflicts around the 
world.

Our diplomatic activities are woefully underfunded, undermanned, and 
underutilized. We must rebuild our diplomatic capacity to meet the 
needs of our increasingly complex global relations. Diplomatic, 
economic and social assistance is a much wiser and less expensive 
investment than war. Rather than relying on either hard power or soft 
power, we must, instead, emphasize smart power.

Promoting democracy, human rights, the rule of law and the 
development of civil society is a matter of leadership requiring us to 
think beyond unilateral military solutions and to, instead, embrace a 
much more comprehensive approach to our relations with the 
international community. This rule enables us to consider legislation 
to do just that.

The first legislation on this rule, the Foreign Relations Act, 
advances crucial and laudable programs. The Department of State is 
authorized to hire more than 1,500 Foreign Service officers, ensuring 
that our overseas posts will be staffed with eager and knowledgeable 
workers committed to promoting American culture, values, and policies.

Critical multilateral assistance is authorized to fund our 
obligations to international organizations, including the United 
Nations and global peacekeeping operations. This effort demonstrates 
the United States' commitment to working with our friends and allies as 
a true partner in peace and cooperation.

I'm particularly pleased with the increased funding authorization for 
the Peace Corps, enabling a dramatic expansion in the number of 
volunteers and countries served. Peace Corps volunteers exemplify our 
national commitment to improving the world, devoting their lives to 
helping the world's poorest people build communities and lift 
themselves out of poverty. As one of our Nation's most treasured and 
effective international programs, we must ensure that it attracts top 
quality volunteers and can reach into the farthest corners of the 
world.

Improvements in refugee and migration assistance are a critical part 
of this legislation. The United States has a long history of commitment 
to humanitarian issues, and this bill authorizes the funds necessary to 
improve resources and programs to effectively help families reunite and 
resettle.

I fully support section 235, relating to Iraqi refugees, whom the 
United States has a special obligation to help. There are more than 4.7 
million Iraqis currently displaced within their own country and in 
neighboring states. Sadly, however, this situation has not improved 
much. And yet the principal reason, I believe, that this crisis has not 
received the attention that it should is because Iraqis are not living 
in refugee camps. Instead, they are a mobile population scattered 
throughout the region. This fact alone has made this humanitarian 
crisis virtually invisible to the international community. However, for 
those Iraqis who remain stranded, jobless, and deprived of essential 
services, with conditions worsening by the day, this deepening crisis 
only threatens to further destabilize the entire region. Section 235 of 
this legislation is an important step towards fulfilling our obligation 
to assist the Iraqi people recover from years of war and conflict.

If a picture is really worth 1,000 words, then all one must do is 
look into the face of the Iraqi refugee, as I have, who has had a 
family member murdered, kidnapped or tortured, and their own life 
threatened, to know that the United States must respond. I'm, 
therefore, grateful that my language, introduced in legislation, was 
included in this bill.

Mr. Speaker, this rule also includes H.R. 1886, the Pakistan Enduring 
Assistance and Cooperation Enforcement Act. This legislation takes our 
Pakistan policy in a new direction, affirming the United States' 
commitment to a sustained partnership with Pakistan.

Since 2001, the United States has provided over $12 billion to 
Pakistan, without specific goals or objectives. Frankly, the situation 
has only gotten worse since that time.

By providing over $6 billion in 4 years in democratic, economic and 
social development assistance, this bill demonstrates our determination 
to help Pakistan build a stable, democratic and prosperous future.



This funding will provide critical resources for Pakistan to address 
the fundamental needs of its citizens.

Through the Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capabilities Fund, the United 
States is also committed to helping Pakistan combat terrorism and the 
Taliban insurgency. At the same time, mindful of the past history of 
neglecting oversight, this legislation provides a range of 
transparency, evaluation, and accountability standards to ensure that 
our money and efforts are being applied effectively and efficiently.

Mr. Speaker, as I am concerned about the situation of Iraqi refugees, 
I am also concerned about the situation of Pakistan's refugees. 
According to news reports, more than 3 million people in Pakistan's 
northwest region have been uprooted due to ongoing fighting. Like the 
Iraqi refugee crisis, the Pakistan refugee problem, if not handled 
properly, could become a ticking timebomb with ramifications far beyond 
what we can conceive today.

It is imperative that the mistakes of the previous administration 
with regard to Iraq are not made again. I am pleased that the United 
States has recently committed $200 million on top of a previous 
commitment of $110 million, but we must not think that this is the end 
of our responsibility. The United States must seize this opportunity 
and implement a comprehensive plan to address this growing humanitarian 
crisis.

Mr. Speaker, this is a good rule that paves the way to considering 
essential legislation to put our foreign policy on the right path 
towards improving our relations around the world. I urge adoption of 
the rule and passage of the underlying legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.