# None
## `e74c9d112bececc93cebfdf215182e72`
`Mr. DURBIN — 18 June 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader for his 
statement. I know there is controversy involved in this so-called cash 
for clunkers, which is a humorous name for a very serious proposal. 
Let's be real honest about where we are in America today. We have seen 
the largest decline in automobile sales in 50 years. Sales are down 29 
percent. Automobile production is down 46 percent from where it was 
just 17 months ago. Plummeting auto sales have reduced production, and 
it has had a ripple effect across the economy, forcing dealerships and 
factories to close. We have lost 280,000 American jobs in the 
automobile industry. That is what this is about, 280,000 American jobs 
that are lost and more that will be lost if we do nothing.

Some would have us do nothing. While the automobile industry is 
roiling from job losses and declining production, many consumers in the 
market for new cars are waiting. They are holding back. The purpose of 
this legislation is to put some movement into the purchasing of new 
automobiles. It is a targeted way to give incentives to Americans to 
buy cars, get them back in the showrooms, back on the lots buying the 
cars that start moving the inventory, creating demand, and creating a 
more positive feeling about the automobile industry. Are there better 
ways to have written this? Yes. I think I could have sat down with 
others and spent more time. But that is the case in almost every bill 
that comes before us.

Some have argued: Listen, this just came up in the conference 
committee. It passed the House of Representatives before it was brought 
up in the conference committee. I will concede that I wish that bill 
would have been debated and passed here, but we didn't have the 
opportunity to do it. We literally did not. This is a matter of seizing 
an opportunity that could make a profound difference.


Has this concept of giving cash incentives to customers to buy cars 
ever been tried? It turns out it has. It was tried in January of this 
year in Germany, where they offered $3,300 to consumers to replace old 
cars with new ones. At the end of the program's first month, car sales 
in Germany dramatically increased by 21 percent. The bad news? That 
same month automobile sales in the United States went down by 41 
percent. Germany knew how to create a surge in purchasing by consumers 
with similar legislation to what is being brought to the floor.

Let's be honest about the automobile industry. Next to the housing 
industry, it is at the base of our economic pyramid. We need to make 
sure a strong auto industry is available to America so we can rebuild 
out of this recession and start creating jobs. Those who want to kill 
this provision are walking away from incentives to put people back to 
work in dealerships selling cars, servicing cars, and producing cars 
across America.

I beg those who oppose this to understand what we will face if we do 
nothing, which is what they want to do, nothing. I think that is a 
terrible outcome. If we want to stand behind recovering from this 
recession and restoring consumer confidence, if we want to move old 
cars off the road, the so-called clunkers, and bring new cars on the 
road with higher gas mileage, this is our opportunity. Let's not get 
caught up in some procedural tanglement. Keep our eye on 280,000 
Americans out of work in this industry, more to follow if we do 
nothing. This is going to be an important measure for us in the long 
run. We need to build on it. First, we need to pass this today.

As Senator Reid has said, it is an important provision in the House 
of Representatives. Without it, we are not sure we can pass this 
supplemental bill, which has so many other important provisions, not 
the least of which is providing for our troops in the field. It is a 
delicate balance that brings this to the floor. I hope those who oppose 
it don't want to stand back and do nothing as this recession continues, 
understand the gravity of this automobile industry being flat on its 
back at this point in time, and realize that we owe President Obama 
passage of this supplemental legislation. President Obama did not want 
to ask for this bill to pay for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. But, 
unfortunately, the previous


President made us fund these wars on an emergency basis. So we had to 
come in with a supplemental appropriations bill to pay for the war. 
That will not happen again.

Next year, President Obama is putting it in the regular budget. This 
is one of the last things we have to do to clean up a situation left 
for this President by President Bush. This bill for automobiles--this 
one that has a broad cross section of bipartisan support--includes 
support of business and labor: the United Auto Workers, the National 
Association of Manufacturers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the 
National Automobile Dealers Association, as well as more than a dozen 
Governors.

It is important we defeat this procedural objection to this program, 
that we put this money into our economy, give people a chance to buy a 
new car that is more fuel efficient, and put people back to work across 
America, so we can start digging ourselves out of this recession hole.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.