# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `e7509741df223f0d980802c23bd83159`
`Ms. PELOSI — 14 November 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding and appreciate his 
leadership in bringing this important legislation, the Orderly and 
Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act.

Mr. Speaker, on Monday, America honored our veterans, something that 
we do every day in our hearts but which we openly celebrated on that 
day. I am very proud that this year we could celebrate also the biggest 
increase in veterans benefits in the 77-year history of the Veterans 
Administration thanks to the New Direction Congress.

Yesterday, the President of the United States signed the Defense 
appropriations bill with the biggest increase in defense spending, made 
necessary because we must rebuild the capacity of our troops, which 
capacity has been weakened by the war in Iraq. And today, we bring 
before the Congress new direction legislation regarding the orderly and 
responsible redeployment of our troops out of Iraq.

This legislation is necessary because whatever you may have thought 
about the war or the conduct of the war or the origin of the war, 
whatever you may think about the performance of the Iraqi Government 
there, and I have my views on that subject, the fact is we can no 
longer militarily sustain the deployment in Iraq. Staying there in the 
manner that we are there is no longer an option.

Our troops have performed their duties magnificently, excellently, 
patriotically, and courageously. We owe them the deepest gratitude for 
their courage, their patriotism, and the sacrifices that they and their 
families are willing to make. But even as they tried


to create and had their military successes, God bless them for that, 
the secure framework was established to enable the Iraqi Government to 
make the political change necessary to end the civil war. Well, the 
sacrifice of our troops was simply not met by the actions of the Iraqi 
Government.

How much longer should we expect our young people to risk their 
lives, their limbs, their families, for an Iraqi Government that is not 
willing to step up to the plate?

This legislation today offers something fundamentally different from 
what President Bush is proposing, a 10-year war, a war without end, 
costing trillions of dollars at the expense of our military readiness. 
In fact, it offers something different than this House has done before. 
Indeed, it provides the tools to our troops so that they can get their 
jobs done with the greatest respect for that job. But it also presents 
a strategy that will bring them home responsibly, honorably, safely, 
and soon.

The legislation is different because it ties the funding to a 
strategy for redeployment. It is different because the funding provided 
is for the short term so that we can measure the administration's plan, 
if there is such a plan, to redeploy the troops on the schedule 
established in this bill.

We do have a military crisis not seen since Vietnam. Equipment is 
wearing out and needs to be replaced. Our troops, wherever they are, 
are only being trained for counterinsurgency in Iraq instead of a wider 
training for a full range of missions that they may be called on to 
perform. The deployment schedule of the Bush administration is wearing 
down our forces, plain and simple.

The distinguished chairman of the Armed Services Committee has made 
this readiness issue the cornerstone of his opposition to this war in 
Iraq. The distinguished chairman of the appropriations subcommittee on 
Defense has told us over and over again that this deployment in Iraq 
cannot be sustained without weakening our national security, without 
diminishing the capacity of our armed services to meet challenges to 
our national security wherever they may occur. As such, this readiness 
crisis poses a grave threat to America's national security.

Yet under the President's plan, and this was expressed by 
representatives of the administration on more than one occasion, the 
President's plan would bring 30,000 troops, the number of troops that 
were sent in for the surge, that 30,000 troops would be redeployed back 
to the U.S. by July of 2008. So let's understand this. This means that 
by July of 2008, we will have the same number of troops in Iraq as we 
had in November of 2006 when the American people called for a new 
direction in Iraq. Again, we cannot afford the President's commitment 
in Iraq. It traps us. It traps us, and we cannot, while we are in that 
trap, address our readiness crisis.

This redeployment, in addition to undermining our military capacity 
to protect the American people, is also unsustainable financially. 
According to a recent report by the Joint Economic Committee, this war 
could end up costing American taxpayers $3 trillion. We will pay any 
price, as President Kennedy said, to protect the American people, but 
without us going into the shortcomings of this war and the President's 
execution of it, $3 trillion, think of the opportunity cost of that 
money in our readiness, in the strength of our country, in our 
reputation in the world.

The legislation before us is important. Again, the title of it is the 
Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act. It would 
begin redeployment within 30 days of enactment and have a goal of 
completing the redeployment by December 15, 2008. The legislation 
requires a transition in the mission of U.S. forces from being in 
combat to diplomatic and force protection, to targeted counterterrorism 
and limited support for the Iraqi security forces. It would prohibit 
the deployment of U.S. troops to Iraq who are not fully trained and 
fully equipped. Thank you, Mr. Murtha, for your leadership on that 
subject and on this one as well and so many others. It requires that 
all U.S. Government agencies and personnel abide by the Army Field 
Manual's prohibition against torture.

The legislation that Mr. Obey has brought to the floor, and I salute 
your leadership over and over again on this subject and so many others, 
Mr. Chairman, the House must choose between the President's plan for a 
10-year war without end, no end in sight, the longer we're there, the 
harder it is to come out, the longer we're there, the more severely it 
hurts our military readiness; or a Democratic plan for responsible, 
honorable, safe redeployment out of Iraq and soon.

Our troops have already paid too high a price for this war: 3,850 
U.S. troops killed, 28,000 injured, thousands of them permanently. That 
is, of course, the biggest price to pay. But the price that we are 
paying in our reputation in the world for us not to be able to take our 
rightful place as a leader in the world to make the world safer, to 
make the region, the Middle East, more stable, and so many other 
challenges that the world faces, whether it's the eradication of 
disease, the alleviation of poverty, the curbing of global warming, 
keeping peace, ending the fury of despair that contributes to the 
violence in the world. The countries of the world are crying out for 
American leadership, and at the same time they disrespect us for what 
is happening in Iraq.

We must act now to provide a new direction because it is clear that 
the President has turned a blind eye to all of this. And in addition to 
what I said earlier, our troops paying the biggest price, our 
reputation in the world, the several-trillion-dollar price tag to the 
taxpayer, and the cost to our readiness, despite the fact that the 
President has turned a blind eye to the facts of Iraq and a tin ear to 
the wishes of the American people to take a new direction in Iraq and 
bring our troops home, we must act today. I hope that our colleagues 
will all support this legislation because in doing so and if it is 
enacted into law and if this policy is pursued, we can resume our 
rightful place in the world. We can refocus our attention, as Mr. Obey 
said earlier, on the real war on terrorism, and we can make the 
American people safer by rebuilding and restoring the readiness and the 
capacity of our military to protect the American people wherever our 
interests are threatened.

All of us stand here and take an oath of office by pledging to 
protect and defend the Constitution. In that preamble, to provide for 
the common defense is one of our first responsibilities. Unless we do 
that, protect the American people, nothing else is possible.

So let us support this legislation which helps us honor our oath of 
office to defend the American people and to respect the sacrifice, the 
courage, the patriotism of our troops to make us the home of the brave 
and the land of the free.

I urge a ''yes'' vote on this important legislation.