---
---

# VETERANS DISABILITY BENEFITS CLAIMS MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `e75f8f1a984df40a647522fefced1874`
`Mr. HARE — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. HARE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 5892, the Veterans 
Disability Benefits Claims Modernization Act of 2008, and I commend 
Chairman Hall for his tireless work on this issue.

The disability backlog of more than 800,000 claims in the VA is a 
moral black eye for our country. We made a promise to those who served 
in uniform, and we have failed to keep that promise. The legislation 
before us today takes a critical step in restoring that promise. This 
bill is a comprehensive approach to fixing the flaws that exist in 
claims decisions and in the structure at the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, the VBA.

The largest factors contributing to the claims backlogs are the 
broken culture and processes at the VA. There is a lack of 
accountability on raters, poor quality assurance measures, a broken 
work credit system, virtually no training for the VBA personnel, and an 
outdated information technology system.

H.R. 5892 squarely addresses these problems by creating a more 
accountable and accurate system that rewards raters for the quality of 
their work, and it holds them accountable for their mistakes, ensuring 
that claims are processed correctly the very first time.

I want to thank Chairman Hall for working with me to include specific 
language on mental health in the study of the readjustment schedule. Of 
those veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan who have accessed VA care, 40 
percent have sought mental health care. It is critical that any study 
on the rating schedule takes a good look at mental health conditions to 
ensure that those veterans receive fair compensation.

I am disappointed that we had to remove the original section 101 
language from H.R. 5892, which provided a service connection 
presumption for post-traumatic stress disorder by clearly defining who 
was considered a ''combat veteran.'' The provision decreased the burden 
of proof for combat veterans, increasing their access to disability 
benefits.

I appreciate Mr. Hall's efforts to address this issue in separate 
legislation, and I look forward to working with him to ensure that it 
becomes law.

H.R. 5892 is a strong piece of legislation that will improve the way 
veterans' claims are processed. Again, I view this as a work in 
progress, and I look forward to continuing efforts until the backlog 
goes from 800,000 to zero.