# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e7610560814cc212a8afe1326dd6672c`
`Mr. REICHERT — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. REICHERT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New York for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I support our troops wholeheartedly and without 
reservation, but I cannot support a resolution that simply opposes a 
new strategy without offering any alternative plan to win. There is too 
much at stake.



Let us just think about where we are today as a country, about the 
global war we are in with people with intent to kill Americans and how 
that affects our strategy in Iraq. When considering this, we must 
consider our Nation's history and other difficult times of war.

There have been many bleak moments in America's history, battles we 
have been engaged in where American victory was far from certain.

In 1942, hell bent on dominating the world with his ideology, Adolph 
Hitler and the Third Reich systematically marched through Europe, 
taking the most basic freedoms from the Jewish people and killing 
millions. The United States entered World War II reluctantly and we 
were not ready for the hurdles we faced.

Don't forget, there were times when victory was far from certain. The 
outlook was grim. Many Americans and Europeans alive today can remember 
how bleak those times were as the war drug on and on and on. But we 
didn't give up. We persevered, because we knew there was too much at 
stake.

Eighty years before World War II, in 1862, President Lincoln faced a 
war that most believed could not be won. He faced vocal and unrelenting 
criticism for his resolve to win the Civil War. When the war began, 
Lincoln called for 74,000 troops for 90 days; 74,000 troops for 90 
days. And history has showed us that Lincoln greatly underestimated the 
resources needed, because, as we know, over 620,000 soldiers were 
killed during that war.

At a time in our history when it might have been politically 
expedient to win the Civil War without first achieving victory, 
President Lincoln pressed on, constantly seeking a new strategy, until 
he found one that worked because so much was at stake.

Perhaps some of the resolve Lincoln displayed came from lessons he 
learned 15 years earlier when he entered a smaller battle. In 1848, 
Abraham Lincoln was an often criticized young


freshman Member of this body, the House of Representatives, and was 
facing a difficult point in his career. Lincoln criticized the reasons 
President Polk gave for getting us into the Mexican-American War, a war 
that began before Lincoln came to office, a position that I can 
identify with today as I stand here.

Then-Congressman Lincoln voted for a resolution that stated the 
Mexican-American War was ''unnecessarily and unconstitutionally'' 
initiated by President Polk. Lincoln thought the war was nothing more 
than a political move to grab land from the Mexican people.

My friends, it is legitimate and in fact our duty to question the 
reasons why our country goes to war, and Abraham Lincoln showed us 
that. However, he also showed us something else. Abraham Lincoln made 
an incredibly important distinction that we can learn from today.

A Lincoln biographer, Doris Kearns Goodwin, writes that after being 
criticized for that vote ''Lincoln sought to clarify his position, 
arguing that although he had challenged the instigation of the war he 
had never voted against supplies for the soldiers.''

This is an important point to make again. Lincoln sought to clarify 
his position, arguing that although he had challenged the instigation 
of the war he had never voted against supplies for the soldiers. 
Lincoln knew the damage of condemning a war while claiming to support 
the troops. Yet that is what this resolution before us does today.

During the American Revolution, the men and women who had become this 
country's first citizens were declared by the King of England to be in 
rebellion. The King sent soldiers across the Atlantic to quell the 
uprising.

In every war, it is the average citizen who stands up and fights for 
his neighbor's freedom. It is the same today. In response to the King 
of England's attack, again it was the average citizen who raised his 
hand, volunteered, stood up and fought for our freedom. A bookstore 
owner, the manager of an iron foundry and a land surveyor all stood and 
fought for our freedom. Those men were Henry Knox, Nathaniel Green and 
George Washington.

During America's War for Independence, it was not clear if we would 
prevail then. We lost battle after battle. Troops deserted the 
battlefields. General Washington and his deputies persevered, 
continuing to engage the enemy until the tide turned, because so much 
was at stake.

We are the United States of America today and we are free because 
General Washington refused to quit. We are the United States of America 
today and we are free because Abraham Lincoln refused to quit. And we 
are the United States of America today and we are free because 
Roosevelt and Truman refused to quit. And we are the United States of 
America today and we are free because of the sacrifice of the men and 
women in uniform who put their lives on the line in Iraq, Afghanistan 
and all around the world, preserving our freedom.

Today, the United States is engaged in another war, and just as 
before we face an enemy that wants to destroy our way of life. Just as 
before we face an enemy that thinks it is winning. Just as before our 
country is divided. Just as before we are making mistakes. Just as 
before we face a moment of truth about what to do next. And just as 
before the consequences of losing are devastating.

The enemy is clear about what their intentions are by what they say 
and what they do. Al Qaeda and the global movement that it has spawned 
have made it clear they want nuclear and biological weapons. It is 
clear they want to kill us, Americans. Osama bin Laden has called 
acquiring nuclear weapons a ''religious duty.'' The fact is we are 
engaged in a global war with people intent on killing Americans, and 
regardless of how we got into Iraq, Iraq is now the central front of 
that war.

And yet while we debate this nonbinding resolution, what is really at 
stake is winning or losing. Like Lincoln, I was not in this office as 
the war began. I understand the arguments. I understand the questions. 
I have been asking questions, too, as an elected official in this body 
for the past 2 years, as a concerned citizen, and before that, as a 
veteran. I understand that there are many who think we should never 
have entered Iraq. We now know there was faulty intelligence that led 
to that decision.

But the war is upon us nonetheless. I am elected to deal with what is 
happening now. Will we succeed? Will we win? Just as at other moments 
in our history, those questions stand unanswered. The consequences of 
declaring an end to the war in Iraq without victory would be felt for 
decades. Our enemies around the world would be emboldened. Iran and al 
Qaeda would declare victory. Our allies in Iraq would certainly face 
bloodshed, and our allies around the world would question our resolve 
to help protect them.

Sergeant Eddie Jeffers is a U.S. Army infantryman serving in Ramadi, 
Iraq. Sergeant Jeffers has a firsthand appreciation for what is at 
stake in Iraq and our presence there and what it means to the Iraqi 
people.

He writes, ''We are the hope of the Iraqi people. They want what 
everyone else wants in life: Safety, security, somewhere to call home. 
They want a country that is safe to raise their children in. They want 
to live on, rebuild and prosper. And America has given them that 
opportunity, but only if we stay true to the cause and see it to its 
end. But the country must unite in this endeavor. We cannot place the 
burden on our military alone. We must all stand and fight, whether in 
uniform or not. Right now the burden is all on the American soldier. 
Right now hope rides alone. But it can change. It must change, because 
there is only failure and darkness ahead for us as a country, as a 
people, if it doesn't.''

Sergeant Jeffers' words hit at the heart of our present challenge in 
Iraq. Our current strategy in Iraq is failing, and yet failure is not 
an option. In November, the American people told us they wanted a new 
strategy, not because they wanted to lose, but because they wanted to 
win. Now we have a new strategy before us.

Is this new plan going to work? I don't know. No one in this body who 
is voting on this resolution knows.



What I do know is that we must find a way to achieve victory, and 
simply saying ''no'' to a new plan without offering up an alternative 
will not work and sends a terrible message to our enemies and our 
soldiers.

This is an historic war. America is engaged in a war for our freedoms 
on a scale that we have never experienced before. I understand the 
dissension, the questions and the uncertainty.

I understand the cost is high and the way is often unclear. I have 
served in law enforcement for 33 years. I understand the loss. I have 
lost partners and friends in the line of duty. I understand the cost of 
freedom and the sacrifices that must be made. The sacrifices are hard, 
they are tragic and they are never forgotten, but we must remain 
focused and not let those sacrifices be in vain.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on this resolution. 
Lincoln warned us against tying a criticism of the war to support for 
our troops. Let us send a message to our enemies and our troops alike 
that we will always support our young men and women who put their lives 
on the line for our freedom.