---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3074,  TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `e76f8d3ad2a2ec6e5faf4091ce5906cb`
`Mr. ARCURI — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.

Additionally, I would like to point out that whenever anybody makes 
factually incorrect statements on the floor, I am going to yield to my 
colleagues to make sure that the record is made clear, and that is why 
I yielded to Mr. Edwards on that point.

Mr. Speaker, this bill, the Transportation-HUD appropriations bill, 
like very few other things that we as a body deal with, deals and helps 
and touches many, many millions of Americans, whether it is CDBG money 
that goes to help the elderly make a senior center more accessible, or 
whether it is fixing our roads that thousands of commuters travel on 
every day, it is a bill that is critically important. All we have heard 
from the other side of the aisle are procedural reasons why we 
shouldn't go forward. That is what the American people are tired of. 
They are tired of the process, the procedure. They want action. They 
want things accomplished.

During the break, I had an opportunity to talk to my friend and 
colleague from Wisconsin, Representative Kagen, and he made a good 
point. He said, you know, while we spend billions of dollars in Iraq, 
and no one talks about it, we hear all kinds of complaints when we try 
to spend millions of dollars domestically on programs that help 
Americans, needy Americans, people that need it most.

Mr. Speaker, that's why we need to pass this rule. I urge a ''yes'' 
vote on the previous question and on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. Lincoln Diaz-Balart of 
Florida is as follows:

 Amendment to H. Res. 817 Offered by Mr. Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Florida




 At the end of the resolution, add the following:



 Sec. 2. The House disagrees to the Senate amendment to the 


 bill, H.R. 2642, making appropriations for military 


 construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and related 


 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, and 


 for other purposes, and agrees to the conference requested by 


 the Senate thereon. The Speaker shall appoint conferees 


 immediately, but may declare a recess under clause 12(a) of 


 rule I for the purpose of consulting the Minority Leader 


 prior to such appointment. The motion to instruct conferees 


 otherwise in order pending the appointment of conferees 


 instead shall be in order only at a time designated by the 


 Speaker in the legislative schedule within two additional 


 legislative days after adoption of this resolution.



 (The information contained herein was provided by 


 Democratic Minority on multiple occasions throughout the 


 109th Congress.)






The Vote on the Previous Question: What It Really Means




 This vote, the vote on whether to order the previous 


 question on a special rule, is not merely a procedural vote. 


 A vote against ordering the previous question is a vote 


 against the Democratic majority agenda and a vote to allow 


 the opposition, at least for the moment, to offer an 


 alternative plan. It is a vote about what the House should be 


 debating.



 Mr. Clarence Cannon's Precedents of the House of 


 Representatives, (VI, 308-311) describes the vote on the 


 previous question on the rule as ''a motion to direct or 


 control the consideration of the subject before the House 


 being made by the Member in charge.'' To defeat the previous 


 question is to give the opposition a chance to decide the 


 subject before the House. Cannon cites the Speaker's ruling 


 of January 13, 1920, to the effect that ''the refusal of the 


 House to sustain the demand for the previous question passes 


 the control of the resolution to the opposition'' in order to 


 offer an amendment. On March 15, 1909, a member of the 


 majority party offered a rule resolution. The House defeated 


 the previous question and a member of the opposition rose to 


 a parliamentary inquiry, asking who was entitled to 


 recognition. Speaker Joseph G. Cannon (R-Illinois) said: 


 ''The previous question having been refused, the gentleman 


 from New York, Mr. Fitzgerald, who had asked the gentleman to 


 yield to him for an amendment, is entitled to the first 


 recognition.''



 Because the vote today may look bad for the Democratic 


 majority they will say ''the vote on the previous question is 


 simply a vote on whether to proceed to an immediate vote on 


 adopting the resolution . . . [and] has no substantive 


 legislative or policy implications whatsoever.'' But that is 


 not what they have always said. Listen to the definition of 


 the previous question used in the Floor Procedures Manual 


 published by the Rules Committee in the 109th Congress, (page 


 56). Here's how the Rules Committee described the rule using 


 information from Congressional Quarterly's ''American 


 Congressional Dictionary'': ''If the previous question is 


 defeated, control of debate shifts to the leading opposition 


 member (usually the minority Floor Manager) who then manages 


 an hour of debate and may offer a germane amendment to the 


 pending business.''



 Deschler's Procedure in the U.S. House of Representatives, 


 the subchapter titled ''Amending Special Rules'' states: ''a 


 refusal to order the previous question on such a rule [a 


 special rule reported from the Committee on Rules] opens the 


 resolution to amendment and further debate.'' (Chapter 21, 


 section 21.2) Section 21.3 continues: ''Upon rejection of the 


 motion for the previous question on a resolution reported 


 from the Committee on Rules, control shifts to the Member 


 leading the opposition to the previous question, who may 


 offer a proper amendment or motion and who controls the time 


 for debate thereon.''



 Clearly, the vote on the previous question on a rule does 


 have substantive policy implications. It is one of the only 


 available tools for those who oppose the Democratic 


 majority's agenda and allows those with alternative views the 


 opportunity to offer an alternative plan.
