---
---

# HONORING THE RETIREMENT OF COL LINDA EBLING
## `e779d637b53cd34982b88b2de9523a8e`
`Ms. CASTOR — 27 September 2008`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor COL Linda Ebling for 
her 22-year career in the United States Air Force as a Medical Service 
Corps officer. Her direct support of medical planning efforts for the 
United States Air Force Medical Service has greatly enhanced medical 
capabilities needed for success in the war.

Colonel Ebling was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. She obtained a 
Bachelors of Arts from Thiel College in Chemistry in 1975, and a 
Bachelors of Health Science from Hahnemann Medical College and Hospital 
in 1977.


She earned a Masters of Public Health at the University of Pittsburgh 
in 1985 and continued on as a distinguished graduate from military and 
health programs such as Health Services Administration, Squadron 
Officer School, Contingency Wartime Planning, and Joint Medical 
Planning. She also attended programs such as the Air Command and Staff 
College, Air War College, and Interagency Institute for Healthcare 
Executives at George Washington University.

Throughout her career, Colonel Ebling enhanced medical services in 
the U.S. military by working in numerous positions of medical services, 
support, management, operations, and planning. She is currently the 
Director of Medical Readiness for the Office of the Surgeon General, 
Headquarters United States Air Force at Bolling Air Force Base and the 
Pentagon, Washington, DC. Prior to serving with the Air Staff, she 
worked as Commander of the 86th Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron at 
Ramstein Air Base, Germany, from 2004 through 2006. During this 
assignment, she also served as Commander to 332nd Expeditionary Medical 
Support Squadron and Administrator to the 332nd Expeditionary Medical 
Group, deploying to the Air Force Theater Hospital at Balad Air Base, 
Iraq.

Prior to entering the Air Force, Colonel Ebling engaged in clinical 
practice as a Certified Physician Assistant from 1977-1986, working in 
Family Medicine Clinics in rural Pennsylvania, Industrial Medicine at 
the United States Steel Corporation, and Internal Medicine Services at 
the University of Pittsburgh. She also volunteered for medical mission 
work in rural areas of Haiti during 1984 and 1985. In 1986, Colonel 
Ebling received a direct commission to the Air Force as a Medical 
Service Corps Officer. She has served at Air Staff, MAJCOM, MacDill Air 
Force Base, and in various chief administrative and operational 
assignments, including AFSOC, AFMOA, 16th Operations Group, and joint 
special operations.

To recognize Colonel Ebling's extensive experience and powerful 
influence on medical support to the United States Air Force, she has 
received numerous awards. She is the recipient of the Air Force 
Meritorious Service Medal (6 OLC), the Air Force Achievement Medal (2 
OLC), and the Air Force Commendation Medal. She is also the recipient 
of the Joint Service Achievement Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary 
Medal (OLC), Humanitarian Service Medal, National Defense Service 
Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Air & Space Campaign 
Medal, and Iraqi Campaign Medal. She is also a member of Delta Omega, 
Omicron Chapter, a national society of academic excellence and 
leadership in public health, and was inducted into Thiel College's 
Athletic Hall of Fame. Due to her profound commitment and hard work, 
the United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) recognized her as the 
Medical Readiness Officer of the Year in 1988. She also earned the Air 
Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) Commitment to Service Award in 
1999, and the Air Combat Command (ACC) Commitment to Service Award in 
2001.

Madam Speaker, COL Linda Ebling is a woman of the highest regard who 
has dedicated her life to the medical support and operations our brave 
men and women need out on the battlefield and when they return home. I 
am sure that I join many others in applauding her significant 
contribution to the Air Force Medical Services throughout her 22-year 
career.
