# None
## `e77bd307d704a3e7e3c2f449d2d047c6`
`Mr. BYRD — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, I will vote against H.R. 1585, the 
National Defense Authorization Act. I support many of the provisions in 
this bill, which authorizes the activities of the Department of 
Defense, including important research, development and procurement 
funding to improve our Armed Forces and the operations and maintenance 
funding necessary to ensure the smooth running of the military services 
over the coming year. I support these activities, which not only 
benefit those servicemembers currently serving overseas in Afghanistan 
and Iraq, but also help build a strong and effective military for the 
future. I applaud the fine work of Senator Levin and the Committee on 
Armed Services for their efforts in putting together a bill that is, in 
most ways, a good piece of legislation.

However, H.R. 1585 also includes title XV, which provides 
authorization for the funding of continued operations in Iraq for the 
coming year. In my view, this provision constitutes a ''poison pill.''

I have stated before that the Congress should not continue to write 
blank checks for the prosecution of this apparently endless war in 
Iraq. That is what title XV does. In effect, it provides a 
congressional authorization to fund the continuation of President 
Bush's policy in Iraq for another year, without any strings attached. I 
offered an amendment to clarify that nothing in the bill constitutes a 
specific authorization for U.S. troops to remain in Iraq, but the 
committee was unable to clear the amendment. Other amendments offered 
to the bill that would have placed limits on the number of troops or 
otherwise limited the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq were defeated 
during the floor debate on H.R. 1585. This is regrettable.

Continuing to prosecute this war at the current rate is straining our 
military to the breaking point. Many units and individuals are enduring 
their third and fourth rotation to Iraq, and because no limits have 
been placed on the mission or force levels, there is no end in sight. 
More and more military analysts are warning that the U.S. Armed Forces 
are at risk for becoming a 'hollow force,' as happened after the 
Vietnam conflict. That is irresponsible, and it puts our Nation at 
risk.

There are no provisions in this bill to require the U.S. President or 
the Iraqi government to meet any benchmarks or withdraw any troops, or 
even to put limits on sending still more troops to Iraq, if any could 
be found. It is time for Congress to start reining in this runaway 
horse, before our military is completely exhausted and our nation made 
vulnerable.

I support our troops. I do not want them to lack for anything needed 
to do their job or to keep them safe. But I cannot and will not agree 
to leave them in Iraq forever, with no limits placed on their mission, 
no provision to ensure that they at least get as much time at home as 
they do on the battlefield, with no benchmarks or goals set for the 
Iraqi Government that might trigger a return of our troops, and no 
assurances by our commander in Iraq that this war is making the United 
States any safer. That is a bitter poison pill I cannot swallow.