# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `e78192aa4503f5c489fa21467998b7a5`
`Mr. REYES — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. REYES. Mr. Chairman, I rise to express my support for this 
important measure which reflects--in dollars and cents--just a small 
measure of our appreciation for all that men and women in uniform do in 
defense of our Nation.

We have an obligation to provide the housing and other facilities in 
which our military members and their families live and work. This 
measure includes the funds required to fully fund the President's 
budget request for military construction projects. The bill provides 
$8.2 billion dollars to implement the 2005 BRAC recommendations and 
$2.9 billion to replace, rehabilitate, and build housing for troops and 
their families.

As the representative of Fort Bliss, Texas I have seen the fruits of 
military construction spending, and I can assure my colleagues that 
these funds are being wisely used by the Army and the other military 
services to greatly improve the quality of life for our military 
members and their families. From a motorpool that allows a young 
technician to repair vehicles out of the heat and rain to a childcare 
center where the children of deployed service members can learn and 
grow, these facilities are more than bricks and mortar. They are an 
integral part of every soldier's daily life.

This bill provides an unprecedented level of funding for veterans 
health care which will allow us to begin to address the needs of 
current veterans who have for years been woefully under-served by the 
Veterans Administration, VA system. H.R. 2642 will also provide needed 
funding for men and women returning from combat in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

This measure continues our efforts to improve benefits for our 
Nation's veterans and provides $43.2 billion for veterans programs--


$6.7 billion more than was allocated last year and $3.8 billion more 
than the White House requested for VA programs. This additional funding 
will meet shortfalls in the Veterans Health Administration budget and 
provide needed funds to better address Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, 
mental health and substance abuse, homeless veterans, and prosthetic 
research.

These programs and other initiatives funded in the Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act are critical to 
our troops and their families and to our veterans who sacrificed so 
much in defense of our Nation and our American values. I urge my 
colleagues to support this legislation.