---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `e782a3e2be35c3e6c6f128e813d03b4b`
`Mr. DURBIN — 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, for those who are keeping score and 
following the Senate, you may wonder what we are doing. We are in the 
middle of a filibuster, which is an attempt to stop legislation from 
moving forward. It is a filibuster inspired by the Republican side of 
the aisle. The bill they are filibustering and trying to delay is the 
Department of Defense appropriations bill. This is the bill that funds 
our military. It is the bill that funds our soldiers, sailors, airmen, 
and marines who are at war in Iraq and Afghanistan.

This is a bill that, almost without fail, passes overwhelmingly with 
a bipartisan majority in the Senate and the House each year. It has 
passed the House of Representatives with a substantial vote of about 
394 to 35, with 164 Republicans voting for it over there. There was no 
controversy associated with it. Yet when it came to the Senate, the 
Senate Republicans announced they were going to filibuster the Defense 
appropriations bill.

Why? Do they disagree with any of the contents? I have yet to hear--
aside from Senator McCain and Senator Coburn, who went through two or 
three provisions in the bill they disagreed with--anyone say we 
shouldn't fund our military. We certainly should. Now some have come to 
the Senate floor and argued the reason we are in this predicament is 
because the Democrats, who are in control, have waited too long to 
bring this bill to the floor. But that statement fails to acknowledge 
the reality of what this calendar year has meant because day after day 
and week after week, month after month, with very few exceptions, the 
role and strategy of the minority--the Republicans--in the Senate has 
been to slow down and stop the consideration of important legislation.