# RECOGNIZING THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF BULGARIA
## `e78cd1c756b7c177fd6793a24924e47c`
`Mr. BAIRD — 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution 
and yield myself as much time as I may consume.

I'm delighted to support this resolution marking the 100th 
anniversary of the independence of Bulgaria. I would like to note my 
good friend Representative Joe Wilson of South Carolina for his 
leadership in ensuring that the House mark this important date.

Founded over 1300 years ago in 681, Bulgaria is one of the most 
ancient countries in the world. Often referred to as the cradle of 
Slavic culture, Bulgaria was the birthplace of Orpheus and Spartacus. 
It has given the world the Cyrillic alphabet, beautiful handicrafts, 
and folk music.

In September 1908, Bulgaria threw off the yoke of Ottoman occupation, 
proclaimed its independence, and became a sovereign state under the 
name of the Kingdom of Bulgaria. In the 100 years since it achieved 
independent statehood, Bulgaria has become a Democratic nation, a 
staunch ally of the United States, and an active participant in the 
transatlantic community.

Bulgaria joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO, in 
April 2004. It has actively participated in NATO missions aimed at 
ensuring the security and stability of the Balkans. Bulgaria provided 
support for Operation Allied Force and Operation Joint Guardian and 
furnished peacekeeping troops to the Stabilization Force in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, as well as the Kosovo Force.

Bulgaria also has been a country of strategic importance to the wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan allowing the U.S. to establish bases in the 
country and make use of its technical facilities. Bulgaria was welcomed 
into the European Union in January 2007, which made the Cyrillic 
alphabet the third official alphabet of the Union after Latin and 
Greek.

Bulgaria has also sought to strengthen its ties to the United States. 
Bulgarians began immigrating to this country in large numbers between 
1903 and 1910, seeking economic opportunities and political freedoms 
during a time of great turmoil on the continent. According to the 
United States Census of 2000, there were 63,000 people of Bulgarian 
descent living in the United States. They're undoubtedly making a rich 
contribution to the tapestry of American life.

This resolution rightly encourages opportunities for even greater 
collaboration between our two nations in the political, economic, 
military, and cultural realms.



Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating the 
Bulgarian people on the 100th anniversary of their independence and in 
celebrating enduring Bulgarian-American friendship.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I would reserve the balance of my time.