# DISCUSSING THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `e7bddd27fb274fc059239e3fcd460140`
`Mr. COURTNEY â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. One day last week, this past week, in Hartford, 
Connecticut, General Eric Shinseki came and spoke the to World Affairs 
Council in Hartford. He, speaking of courage, was the chief of the Army 
at the outset of the Iraq war, was asked the question by the Armed 
Services Committee, how many forces it would take to secure Iraq after 
the invasion. He said, hundreds of thousands of troops.

As we all know, what happened to him was that because the 
neoconservatives to dominated the administration at the time didn't 
want to hear that type of reality; instead, they were wedded to this 
view, that you could win the war on the cheap.

He was bounced out of the Army, after an incredibly distinguished 
career, decorated combat veteran in Vietnam, one of the people who did 
an incredible amount of work to bring our Armed Forces back after the 
debacle of Vietnam.

He spoke to the World Affairs Council on Monday and talked about what 
happened in the wake of Vietnam in terms of our Armed Forces, that the 
disillusionment and, you know, just the negative fallout that occurred 
in terms of people enlisting in the Army, departing well before their 
planned careers were going to actually come to fruition, caused great 
damage to the Armed Forces that took decades to recover, and that we as 
a Nation had finally gotten to a point where we had


not just people at the top level but also at the middle levels of the 
Army who had really gotten a strong, competent force back into place. 
His concern is that this war in Iraq is going to result in the same 
damage as an institution to the Army and the Marine Corps.

We are seeing it in terms of people departing the service, the mid-
level officer corps. We again saw another example where the Army failed 
to hit its recruiting goals last month.

This bill today that we voted on was all about trying to repair the 
damage that has been done to the military readiness of this country, 
and General Shinseki, who I think will go down in history as a prophet 
in this country, as hopefully somebody who still has service to give to 
this Nation, maybe in a new administration some time or in some other 
role, is reminding us that we are at grave risk.

Again, the quality people, I know we saw it in Iraq when we went and 
visited, just wonderful, wonderful people serving in uniform in Iraq, 
helpful, smart, independent minded. But right now they are trapped in a 
policy by the administration that is basically telling them that their 
service is just being used in a way that shows no respect for their own 
wonderful qualities.

It is one of the main, most important reasons that this bill today 
that we voted on has got to get passed and signed into law. We have got 
to keep chipping away with vote after vote over the next few weeks or 
so to make sure that the gathering numbers we are picking up on these 
measures are going to get us to the point where real change is going to 
happen.