# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT
## `e7bf2dabc51a060688eb8d766529aa0b`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE â€” 21 April 2010`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 1963, the 
Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act. This legislation 
keeps the promises made to our troops, wounded warriors, and veterans. 
It is simply our duty as a Nation, when we put our men and women in 
harm's way, to care for them when they return home.

S. 1963 will provide support to families and those who care for 
disabled or injured veterans. This bill helps ease the many hardships 
and sacrifices that many families face during lengthy recovery and 
rehabilitation of severe injuries of their loved one. S. 1963 will 
provide support services to family members and other caregivers of 
veterans, including education on how to be a better caregiver, 
counseling and mental health services. The bill also provides health 
care and a stipend for caregivers living with severely wounded veterans 
of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.

As a veteran myself, I strongly support making sure Congress honors 
its commitments to our veterans. Our support system should work for all 
those who sacrifice for our country and this bill improves health care 
for the women who have bravely served their country. It also improves 
mental health as an important part of overall health for our veterans.

Finally, this bill recognizes that more and more of our soldiers are 
women, and it removes existing barriers to women veterans seeking 
health care. Our military health care needs to provide everyone who has 
served our nation receives the services he or she needs. In particular, 
the legislation enables female veterans to receive up to seven days of 
care for newborn children and enhances sexual trauma treatment for 
women at the VA.

It is time to change the way we care for veterans by providing better 
support and training for those that care for them. The sacrifice of our 
veterans is appreciated by all Americans. S. 1963 represents compassion 
for those who served our country, and support for those who now serve 
them.

Mr. Speaker, this bill takes care of those who are keeping America 
safe. I urge my colleagues to join me in support of S. 1963, to fulfill 
our continued obligations to our nation's military.