---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `e7c2432e4bc164c4e7e8aadd3b0dbc9d`
`Mr. DINGELL â€” 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Madam Chair, today I rise in support of the fiscal year 
2010 budget resolution. Today's vote on the budget is a critical one, 
not only because it finally invests resources in domestic priorities, 
but because it also takes into consideration the needs of our families.

Our economy is suffering, financial markets are in turmoil, and back 
home in Michigan we are facing an unemployment rate of 12 percent. My 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle suggest cutting our spending, 
while also providing huge tax cuts for their fat cat friends and more 
subsidies for oil and gas companies. These are not the folks that need 
government tax breaks and subsidies.

If it is not the government who will pump money into our economy, 
provide tax cuts to our families and make health care and education 
more affordable, then who will? We know that our banks are not lending, 
families are living paycheck to paycheck, and our small businesses and 
companies are struggling to maintain their payroll. The status quo is 
not an option.

For the first time in eight long years we have a President who 
proposed a budget that takes into consideration the long-term stability 
of our country and provides a strong economic plan to guide us out of 
this recession. To that end, Congress proposes cutting the deficit by 
nearly two-thirds by 2013, reducing discretionary spending to its 
lowest level ever, and including initiatives to cut waste, fraud and 
abuse, saving taxpayers nearly $50 billion. And for the first time, 
Congress and the administration are including the costs of the Wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan in the budget, no longer hiding the costs in 
supplemental legislation.

Yes, Congress and this administration is tackling a lot at once, not 
only because the last administration left a platter of problems at our 
feet, but also because we can no longer afford to put off health care 
reform, or climate change, or quality education. Our country and our 
economy need a long-term solution.

Through this budget we will begin to tackle the rising costs of 
healthcare by reducing high administrative costs and rooting out 
inefficiencies. We will ensure that Medicare physician payments provide 
clear incentives for better quality care and ensure that primary care 
physicians are compensated for the hard work that they do. All of these 
steps will set the stage for health care reform and provide a down 
payment for legislation this summer.

This budget also continues our investment in education by raising the 
maximum Pell grant award, including additional assistance to help more 
low-income students complete college. This is critical to ensuring that 
our current and future employers continue to have a highly educated 
workforce. We need to keep our workforce competitive with our neighbors 
abroad and I strongly believe that ensuring access to education for all 
is one way to do that.

Finally, we will look towards laying the foundation for climate 
change legislation this summer by ensuring that funding and tax 
incentives in the stimulus bill receive significant funding--producing 
new sources of energy and creating green jobs across the country. 
Further, it will set aside funding to be used to pay for climate change 
legislation that the House and Senate are working on as we speak. This 
will ensure that the final product that makes it to the President's 
desk is paid for, allowing for responsible legislation that will cut 
greenhouse gas emissions, promote energy independence, and create new 
jobs in the energy sector.

I want to commend the leadership of the Obama administration and 
Chairman Spratt for all of their hard work to put together this budget 
proposal. I know that producing a budget that will address the problems 
of the last eight years, while also investing in the priorities of our 
families, was not an easy task. However, it is high time that the 
budget helps all Americans, not just the wealthy. Let this budget be a 
message that Congress has heard our families loud and clear--we want to 
ensure your families are healthy, your children receive quality 
education, and your paychecks stretch a bit further than they used to. 
This is


particularly true for the people of the 15th District--you can rest 
assured that I am working tirelessly to help you through this tough 
time. Together we can, and we will, turn our country's economy around.