---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `e7c3a0d0d79afec243a50eaff2d7b174`
`Mr. DINGELL — 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Conference Report 
to H.R. 2346, the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009.

The agreement reached by the House and Senate negotiators provides 
our troops needed equipment on the battlefield and adequate pay for 
their service through the remainder of the 2009 fiscal year, 
compensation of $500 for every month they were forced to remain on 
active-duty for longer than planned since 2001, funding to fulfill 
President Obama's promise to end the Iraq War, support for refocusing 
our military and civilian operations in Afghanistan, and assistance for 
new counterterrorism, economic, and diplomatic initiatives in Pakistan.

In addition, this legislation contains much-needed funding to respond 
to urgent humanitarian crises involving refugees and internally 
displaced persons (IDPs). While I thank the Committee for including 
this assistance, I am hopeful such funding is just a sign on more to 
come. I am especially hopeful the U.S. will continue to respond to the 
dire needs to Iraqi refugees and IDPs, the largest refugee crisis since 
Palestinian Diaspora of 1948.

I would also like to thank Chairman Obey for providing $1 billion for 
the program authorized by the Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save 
Act (also known as ''cash-for-clunkers.'') I was pleased to cosponsor 
and help craft the cash-for-clunkers legislation which will result in 
meaningful reductions in vehicle fleet carbon emissions and fuel 
consumption, while providing much-needed stimulus for our ailing 
automakers and economy.

Finally, as a long-time supporter of the Department of Health and 
Human Services and front-line public health agencies such as the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, I am pleased that the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act includes $1.5 billion for these Federal 
programs, along with an additional $5.8 billion in contingent emergency 
appropriations for priority efforts to respond to the pandemic flu. 
Further, it provides $350 million to assist State and local 
governments, who play an important role in protecting the public, in 
preparing for and responding to a pandemic.

After the recent outbreak of H1N1, which has been confirmed in 75 
countries, it became apparent that the United States must work swiftly 
to ensure our readiness. The funding provided in the bill will allow 
the United States to take important steps forward in protecting 
Americans from a dangerous outbreak, including the expansion of 
detection efforts, shoring up Federal stockpiles, and securing 
sufficient vaccinations.

I thank Chairman Obey, the Appropriations Committee, and the 
conference negotiators for including these provisions, and I urge my 
colleagues to join me in supporting the Conference Report to H.R. 2346.