# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `e7c5382dbf0c853fc3166c998ac8bfa6`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Madam Chair, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Chair, I have a great deal of respect for my colleague, but I 
believe last year, and she can correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe 
she voted against the bill on the floor. And to characterize our 
disagreement with this bill as partisan, and to, I assume perhaps in 
another way, characterize her vote against our base bill last year as 
something else, her vote as something else, is disappointing.

We had a good partnership when I was chairman and you were ranking 
member. I am disappointed by that. I believe this is a well-founded 
difference of opinion on the content of this bill. There are clear 
differences in priorities. As the gentlelady said and others have said, 
we are a Nation that faces a great threat.

We saw earlier this week that threat may have evolved and found its 
way once again to our shores, in New Jersey. We believe we need to 
strengthen HUMINT and face the threats that are out there. We believe 
that we can't be working in the politically correct environment.

The message that people are looking for in the field is, what 
direction is this new majority going to take our Intelligence 
Community? They are seeing cuts in key activities that support the war, 
the effort against the threat that we face from radical jihadists, and 
not applying the resources that we need against targets that we don't 
know enough about.

I think we would all agree on a bipartisan basis, we don't know 
enough about al Qaeda and how it works and where it is and what its 
resources are and what its plans and intentions are. We don't know 
enough about Iran, Syria, North Korea and the people that are 
proliferating and making this world a much more dangerous place.

We will see amendments later on from both sides of the aisle that 
acknowledge that we are not where we want to be with the reorganization 
of the Intelligence Community. We have lots of questions about where 
the DNI, the office of the DNI is headed and whether this structure is 
going to work the way that some of us worked in a very bipartisan way 
to reform it with a certain expectation and hope, and what we would get 
as a result of that: An enhanced Intelligence Community that would be 
quicker, more nimble and more effective than the threats that we face 
today. And we need to rebuild HUMINT.

And at the same time, we see in this bill a commitment that says we 
are going to task the Intelligence Community, and the question that has 
not been answered is what specific skills does the Intelligence 
Community add to the study of climate change when we are already 
spending $7 billion projected for the next fiscal year on climate 
change? What secrets are we going to steal? What are we going to task 
our HUMINT folks for? What are we going to task our limited resources 
with spy satellites to do? To assess the political, social, 
agricultural and economic risk during the 30-year period beginning on 
date of enactment? And don't say it is not going to take resources. 
This is a massive undertaking. It is not a throw-away. This is Congress 
coming and saying the most important national intelligence assessment 
that the community can complete next year, and you need to do it in 180 
days; 180 days with no input from the community on whether they have 
the resources, the capabilities to carry out this task. We are saying 
that it needs to be done in 180 days. You need to do it on a global 
basis, and you need to do it over 30 years, and you need to cover all 
of these different areas. And by the way, we are not going to give you 
a benchmark from where to start.

Are you going to take the U.N.'s assessment of what may be happening 
with climate change? Are you going to take a university's assessment on 
climate change? Where do you start?

This is a massive undertaking. It will shift resources because when 
you tell the Director of National Intelligence Congress wants this 
done, and Congress we know has been dissatisfied with the national 
intelligence estimates that we have been given on Iraq and Iran and on 
a number of other issues, they know they need to get this one right or 
it better be a very, very good piece of work. They will take this very, 
very seriously. They will divert resources to get this done, and they 
will divert resources from the things that we need them to be doing.

This bill sends the wrong message to our men and women in the field. 
I ask my colleagues to vote ''no.''