# CONGRATULATING DETECTIVE STEVEN SILFIES
## `e7c8c2ff9598816123a2193846315a71`
`Mr. BUNNING — 25 May 2007`

---

 Mr. BUNNING. Madam President, today I congratulate Detective 
Steven Silfies of Hopkinsville, KY. Detective Silfies was recently 
recognized as the ''2006 Trooper of the Year'' by the Kentucky State 
Police.

Detective Silfies is a 4-year veteran of the Kentucky State Police 
Force. He is assigned to Kentucky State Police Post 2 located in 
Madisonville, KY. Prior to joining the Kentucky State Police, Detective 
Silfies served more than two decades in the U.S. Army. This includes 
tours in both Afghanistan and Iraq. He also currently serves as de-
facto liaison officer with personnel at Fort Campbell.

Detective Silfies truly exemplifies what it means to serve and 
protect the citizens of Kentucky. During the past year, Detective 
Silfies has played an integral role in the investigation of six 
murders. His devotion has led to two arrests in those investigations. 
Silfies also has played a prominent role in the solving of several cold 
cases. These include an arrest in a 27-year-old case of an out-of-State 
resident. Detective Silfies took a leading role in another cold case 
involving an out-of-State resident. This was a 13-year-old case in 
which Silfies uncovered overlooked evidence.

I congratulate Detective Silfies on this achievement. To be singled 
out among such a dedicated police force is truly an honor. He is an 
inspiration to the citizens of Kentucky and to dedicated police 
everywhere. I look forward to seeing all that he will accomplish in the 
future.
