---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3159, ENSURING MILITARY READINESS  THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `e7d04e02ac05a49f5057af0e315f6591`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

While I support the military goals of this legislation, all of us do, 
I rise in opposition to this rule and this bill. We all want to see the 
dwell times for our troops expanded to meet Department of Defense 
standards, but this legislation would place handcuffs on our military 
commanders as they work to stabilize Iraq.

My colleagues, in many senses this is a political document, pure and 
simple. The dwell time requirements appear to be not so much efforts to 
improve the readiness of units and quality of life of servicemembers in 
our Armed Forces; rather, these requirements are designed to force a 
withdrawal and reduction of U.S. forces committed to Operation Iraqi 
Freedom.

The proof: This bill slaps deployment prohibitions only on forces 
destined for Iraq, but would allow those very same forces, regardless 
of dwell time, to be committed to combat in Afghanistan or anywhere 
else in the world where they might be needed.

Over the past few weeks, we have heard Members of the majority speak 
with varying levels of clarity about their plans to ''end the war'' or 
''bring the troops home.'' Of course, we all desire to bring the troops 
home. One even proclaimed the ''war is lost.''

But that is not the message we are hearing from Iraq today. Both 
General Petraeus and General Odierno have stated that initial 
assessments of the new strategy are encouraging as the Iraqi Army is 
taking a much more prominent role in the fighting.

In recent days, many of us have read the op-ed in the New York Times 
written by two self-described critics of the war effort. From John 
Burns, Baghdad bureau chief, New York Times: ''I think there's no doubt 
that those extra 30,000 American troops are making a difference. They 
are definitely making a difference in Baghdad.''

And from USA Today, ''Coalition forces have uncovered more insurgent 
weapons caches in the first 6 months of this year than the entire 
previous year.''

Mr. Speaker, we have seen an increase in security, a decrease in 
killing, fewer car bombs, lower levels of civilian casualties; all good 
things. And what is this House's response to this demonstrable 
progress? They would


offer legislation that would hamstring and handcuff our military 
commanders, short-circuit the training of Iraqi soldiers, and endanger 
further security progress.

Mr. Speaker, I have always said that I want our war fighters' 
deployments to be short and as safe as possible. I do want our troops 
out of Iraq and Afghanistan, and anywhere in the world where they are 
in harm's way, soon. But this is not the way to do it.

I rise in opposition to this, the rule, and to this type of thinking 
that endangers not only our soldiers but endangers the civilians that 
we are there to help.