---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `e7d685d175584d24fc99cde0381efdee`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, my distinguished colleague from 
Massachusetts has been talking about the urgency and the importance of 
this legislation, and he has done so masterfully. We have been debating 
health care for weeks. We have been debating it for months if you think 
about the markup that took place in the HELP Committee, as well as in 
the Senate Finance Committee. We have been debating it even more if you 
consider the times of negotiation that took place between a group of 
six Members of the Senate--three Democrats and three Republicans--in 
search of a bipartisan effort. So all of this talk that this is a rush 
to judgment doesn't square itself with the facts.

But there is another bill that is pending before the Senate, a bill 
that should have passed without any difficulty.

Mr. President, the tactics of delay and obstruction we have seen on 
this floor for the last few weeks on the part of the minority have now 
reached critical mass. We are fighting two wars. It is nice to be home. 
It is nice to be home for the holidays. It is nice to be here in the 
comfort of the Senate. It is nice to be able to see your family. But we 
are fighting two wars abroad. We have work to do for the American 
people, and these continued unnecessary delays from the Republican side 
of the aisle are now impacting our military men and women on the ground 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. These delays come at a time when we are seeing 
greater success in Iraq, a time when we are more focused on wiping out 
al-Qaida along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.

Our colleagues on the other side of the aisle are engaged not in 
governing, not in the bipartisanship they claim to embrace, but in pure 
politics--a political game that does not threaten the majority, does 
not benefit the minority; what it does is threaten the health, safety, 
and in some cases the lives of military men and women in harm's way.

Never have so few been asked to sacrifice so much on behalf of their 
country. Never have a relatively small group of Americans in uniform, 
in harm's way, been asked to sacrifice so much, with multiple tours of 
duty, while the rest of America enjoys security at home because of 
their sacrifice. You would think that our friends on the other side of 
the aisle would want to join expeditiously to make sure that their pay, 
their health care, and the equipment they need would be there as 
quickly as possible.

Our friends on the other side of the aisle have determined that their 
only strategy is to bring the work of the Senate to a halt--to diminish 
the effectiveness of the Senate they serve in an effort to diminish the 
majority. It is a shame, but our Republican colleagues have come to 
their view as a political tactic, the road to electoral victory next 
year in the midterm elections of 2010 and then preparing themselves 
already for the Presidential election of 2012, wanting this President 
to fail and this Congress to fail. If you looked at it as a political 
tactic, you might say, well, as a political tactic it might make sense 
for them.

It is a horrid political tactic because it is not about this 
President failing. It is not about this Congress failing. It is about 
the failure for the country in one of its most precarious moments.

This President inherited the worst economy since the Great 
Depression, and I don't think people understand how close to the abyss 
we were from facing a real depression once again in our history. 
Financial institutions were collapsing, and we cared but not for the 
sake of them as big institutions but what they would have meant to the 
economy as a whole. There was a free-fall in the housing market and the 
reality of two wars raging abroad, which he inherited, in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. There is a nuclear North Korea and nuclear-thirsty Iran, 
an energy policy that sends $1 trillion to countries that are despotic 
and wish us ill. Ultimately, we give them the money to act out on their 
despotism. This is what this President inherited.

Instead of working with him, our colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle have determined that the politics of failure will lead them to 
electoral victory, and that is more important than the future of the 
country. They have come to the floor of the Senate to say no to 
everything--first, health care, and now to providing for our troops in 
harm's way. They have come armed with an arsenal of parliamentary 
maneuvers--not to govern or do what is best for the American people, 
not to do what is best for the Senate, but to do what is politically 
expedient for them.

Diminishing the Senate's ability to pass the Defense appropriations 
as well as health care reform in order to score political points--and 
then call it victory--is an insult to the American people. It flies in 
the face of what our Founders intended of a true representative 
democracy--not to tear down the


institutions of government and bring them to a halt but to make them 
work for the people.

Sam Rayburn once said:




 A jackass can kick a barn door down, but it takes a 


 carpenter to build one.


My friends on the other side of the aisle seem intent on kicking the 
barn door down. In my view, that is not victory. Doing nothing, 
delaying, obfuscating, saying no, no to everything, blocking the 
ability of this Chamber to fulfill its duty to the people is no 
victory.

Saying no to funding our troops serving bravely overseas in Iraq and 
Afghanistan is hardly victory. Delaying it is hardly victory. Saying no 
to funding medical care for our military men and women and their 
families is not a victory; it is shameful delay of needed care. Saying 
no to $120 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health 
research at a time when so many of our troops are coming home from Iraq 
and Afghanistan with such injuries is by no means a victory. Saying no 
to necessary funding to train and equip Afghan security forces so they 
can stand up for their own country and get our people out is contrary 
to the President's surge policy, which our friends on the other side 
publicly supported.

Imagine if the tables were turned and it were the Democrats delaying 
funding for mine resistant vehicles to protect our troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. What would our friends on the other side say then? Imagine 
if it were this side of the aisle delaying passage of $636 billion for 
the military, including $128 billion in funding for contingency 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Imagine if it were this side of the 
aisle delaying $154 billion to increase readiness and training of our 
troops. Imagine if it were this side of the aisle delaying funding for 
Bradley Fighting Vehicles, Stryker Combat Vehicles, and three E-2D 
Hawkeye aircraft. Imagine if it were this side of the aisle delaying 
all of this critical equipment. Imagine if Democrats were standing in 
the way of funding military health care for service men and women and 
their children. This is all included in the Defense appropriations 
bill. But that is what our Republican friends on the other side are 
doing. Imagine if the Democrats were holding up needed assistance in 
health coverage for Americans who lost their jobs and are unemployed in 
this economy at this time of the year. That is included in the bill as 
well. But that is what our friends on the other side are doing. What 
would our colleagues on the other side say of our patriotism if we on 
this side were delaying funding for our troops?

Patriotism doesn't shift with the political tides. It is not 
something used to advance a political agenda because if it is, it is 
not patriotism.

We can disagree on the issues. We can disagree on substance. We can 
hold opposing views. That is what happens in a democracy. But there is 
no victory in diminishing the functions of government, the 
responsibilities of government, the duties of this Chamber for 
calculated political gain. There is no victory in holding up extending 
desperately needed unemployment benefits included in this bill. There 
is no victory in blocking the extension of COBRA health insurance 
subsidies in this bill for people who have lost their job, their health 
care, and may be in danger of losing everything--everything--they have 
worked for, especially at this time of the year.

As I think about this time of the year, it is not a stretch to look 
at the delaying tactics of our friends on the other side of the aisle 
on this legislation and think of that famous Christmas movie, ''A 
Christmas Carol,'' and think of Ebenezer Scrooge who, when asked for a 
contribution to those who were in need, replied: What, are there no 
poor houses?

Our colleagues on the other side are holding so tightly to their 
tactics that they are forgetting the very democratic values they 
profess so fiercely to protect.

I urge my colleagues on the other side to see victory not in delay 
and obstruction but in doing what is right for the American people. Do 
what is right for our military men and women who will spend this 
holiday season in Iraq and Afghanistan in harm's way.

I say if the tables were turned, my colleagues on the other side 
would come to this floor, wave the flag, proclaim themselves the only 
true patriots and vilify this side of the aisle as un-American, 
unpatriotic, undemocratic.

The fact is, we are all patriots, and as patriots, though, we have a 
job to do. That job is to make sure our men and women have everything 
they need, even when we disagree as to whether it is an appropriate 
engagement. Once they are engaged, it is our responsibility to ensure 
they are appropriately taken care of.

The tactics of delay for political advantage can never--never--be 
accepted. I urge my colleagues: Do not play politics with the Defense 
appropriations that includes funding necessary to protect our men and 
women in uniform. Let's not play politics at the expense of unemployed 
Americans in need in this economy at this time of the year. It is not 
time for those debates. Those debates should be behind us. And it is 
not time for the political tactics that, in essence, put people at 
risk.

There are many other ways to try to achieve political victory. You 
can do it with the power of your ideas, but you certainly do not have 
to do it by a political tactic that puts the country in jeopardy, that 
puts our men and women in jeopardy, that at the end of the day says we 
would rather see failure than success so we can win an election. That 
is not acceptable.

I yield the floor.