# TRIBUTE TO MAJOR BENJAMIN VENNING
## `e7dd246f270effb0fe25e22142ab43f4`
`Mr. DURBIN — 9 December 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I rise today to honor Major Benjamin 
Venning, U.S. Marine Corps, for his 3 years of service to the U.S. 
Senate and for his continued service to our Nation and its Corps.

From December 2005 to December 2006, Major Venning served in my 
office as a military fellow. He came to my office soon after a tour in 
Fallujah, where his actions in service to the United States earned him 
a Bronze Star. Major Venning had experienced first-hand the rising 
violence in Iraq. His on-the-ground experience in Iraq gave him 
tremendous insight on issues affecting servicemembers and veterans.

Many who served in Iraq and Afghanistan have returned with serious 
physical injuries or have even paid the ultimate price. Others have 
returned with more invisible wounds, injuries that are not immediately 
apparent but that bring pain and suffering to a returning veteran and 
his or her family. Today, traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic 
stress syndrome are recognized as signature injuries of the conflicts 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. While Major Venning served on my staff he 
helped draw attention to these invisible wounds. With his relationships 
at Bethesda Naval, he helped me understand the impact of traumatic 
brain injuries on returning soldiers and marines. With Major Venning on 
my team, I was able to ask hard questions about how our government was 
responding to the growing number of veterans needing help for these 
serious injuries.

In April 2006, I sent a letter that Major Venning worked on, which 
was one of the first to ask the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
closely review its ability to provide proper mental health care to 
returning veterans. Another Senator from the State of Illinois signed 
that letter: Barack Obama. Today, as the world awaits his inauguration, 
the President-elect has promised he will continue to improve mental 
health treatment for troops and veterans suffering from combat-related 
psychological injuries.

After his service as a military fellow, Major Venning was named the 
Deputy Director of the Marine Corps Senate Liaison Office. It is no 
surprise that he was as loved in that office as he was in mine. It was 
my pleasure to host his promotion to major, with his friends and family 
in attendance, in my office in the Capitol. His commanding physical 
presence is matched only by his compassion and understanding of the 
issues facing our returning servicemembers, which was never on better 
display than when he helped shepherd wounded veterans as my guests at 
the State of the Union.

Major Ben Venning is a marine in the best tradition of the Corps. His 
efforts have informed the Congress and have represented the Corps' 
values and capabilities. His performance here will leave a lasting mark 
on my office, the U.S. Senate and the Marine Corps long after he has 
departed.