---
---

# None
## `e7f3083c0dda6420d37c646d3cc90502`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. I want to build on the point that my good 
friend from New York (Mr. Israel) talked about.

It was very important when James Madison wrote into the Constitution 
the words, ''Raise and support the Army is the exclusive domain of the 
Members of Congress.''



There was a reason for that. The reason was because Members of 
Congress, unlike the President, unlike the Senate, my good friends in 
the Senate, it is the Members of Congress that are closest to the 
people. Every other year we must run, and that is why they put it in 
there that if we are going to war, yes, we will spread this authority, 
some of that as Commander in Chief to the executive branch, but we must 
have a check and a balance. They put that in the bosom of the Congress, 
which has to go back before the people every other year and be 
accountable.

I am here to tell you the people of the United States are looking to 
this Congress. They are looking for us to bring some accountability to 
it. They are looking for us to be fair and understand what is at the 
core of this.

You know what is at the core of this is the soldier. When is somebody 
going to look at this war from the standpoint of that soldier that we 
are sending to Iraq now and placing in the cross hairs of a civil war, 
a questionable gambit at best?

The President of the United States does not have to run again. He can 
have all the surges he wants. He can do everything he wants. His 
concern now is building his legacy. He has his right to do whatever he 
wants to do, but the one thing he does not have to do, he does not have 
to go and face the American people again. We do. That is why Madison 
gave us the arbitrary decision to raise and support the military.

So when the Bush administration made the decision to use large 
numbers of these private contractors that were talked about on the 
battlefield in Iraq, it now has had somewhat of a perverse effect of 
incentivizing highly trained special operation force personnel to leave 
the Armed Forces. They are there voluntarily, in order to work as some 
of these contractors for much higher pay.

There is so much just built into this for war profiteering, but here 
is a statistic that we have got to be concerned about. We have got to 
look at this hardship on the soldier. These are not 21,500 other 
soldiers just sitting over there waiting. These soldiers are going, 
many of them, on their third and fourth tour of duties. We have a 
situation where we are running the military in the ground, and no more 
pointed example of that is this startling, disturbing and tragic 
information that has been handed to me by the National Security 
Advisory Group. Listen to this:

Between 2001 and 2004, divorce rates among active duty Army officers 
tripled and rates among Army enlisted soldiers grew, divorce rates by 
50 percent, as deployments lengthened and with increased frequency as 
they are doing now. These divorce rates have served to underscore the 
severity of the strains on the active duty personnel and their 
families, and similarly, incidents of domestic violence increased over 
the same period. There is wear and tear not just on the equipment that 
we talked about, not just on not having the bulletproof vests or the 
Humvees riding around; it is wear and tear on the hearts and souls of 
our soldiers. It is too much of a strain, and we have got to correct 
this situation.

These and other warning signs have caused some commanders to fear 
that personnel who were willing to undertake successive deployments as 
part of, and they use these words, part of the surge cannot sustain 
this tempo of operations over the long term. If they do so, it will be 
at the adverse impact on their families.

How much more do we want to ask of our soldiers? I would tell you one 
thing, this Blue Dog resolution is dedicated to giving our soldiers the 
respect that they are due. We are going to make sure that the money we 
appropriate in here goes to them, and we are going to make doubly sure 
that we can end this situation in Iraq quickly and bring our soldiers 
home to their families.