# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1538, WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE  ACT OF 2007
## `e7f3b1f56f36069143d93571d4e779e6`
`Ms. CASTOR — 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 274 provides for 
consideration of H.R. 1538, the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act of 2007, 
under a structured rule. The rule provides 1 hour and 20 minutes of 
general debate with 1 hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 
Services, and 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chairman 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

The rule waives all points of orders against consideration of the 
bill except clauses 9 and 10 of rule XXI. The rule provides that the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Armed Services shall be considered as an original bill for the purpose 
of amendment and shall be considered as read. The rule waives all 
points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended.

The rule makes in order only those further amendments printed in the 
Rules Committee report accompanying the resolution; in this case, eight 
Democratic amendments and four Republican amendments. The amendments 
may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, 
shall be debatable for the time specified in the report, equally 
divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, not be subject 
to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against the amendment except for clauses 9 and 10 of rule XXI are 
waived.

The rule provides one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions. Finally, the rule permits the Chair, during consideration 
of H.R. 1538, to postpone further consideration to a time designated by 
the Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, the American people and this new Congress demand, 
through this rule and this legislation, that the executive branch move 
beyond the rhetoric of ''support our troops'' to concrete actions that 
sustain our brave men and women in uniform and their families by 
providing the quality health care they deserve when they return from 
the battlefield.

Supporting our troops does not mean that you simply salute as you 
send them off to war, ask them to serve in sacrifice for our great 
country, but it also means that they are supported when they come home, 
their families are respected, and our wounded warriors receive superior 
health care for their physical injuries and mental scars.

This might sound familiar from the Washington Post: ''The conflict in 
Iraq has hatched a town of desperation and dysfunction, clinging to the 
pilings of Walter Reed. The wounded are socked away for months and 
years in random buildings and barracks in and around the military post. 
Mostly what the soldiers do together is wait: for appointments, 
evaluation, signatures and lost paperwork to be found. 'It's like,' one 
military wife said, 'if Iraq don't kill you, Walter Reed will.' While a 
part of Walter Reed has a full bar, there is not one counselor or 
psychologist assigned there to assist soldiers and families in crisis--
an idea proposed by Walter Reed social workers but rejected by the 
military command that runs the post.''

To the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, I say what a shame that the 
American people had to have their eyes opened by two dedicated 
Washington Post reporters as to the treatment of our veterans, the 
incompetence and the profound disrespect. These reporters spent 
hundreds of hours documenting the intimate struggles of the wounded 
warriors who live at Walter Reed. Their stories triggered others from 
across the country, like in my hometown paper, the Tampa Tribune.

The Tampa Tribune last week told the story of soldier John Barnes who 
was injured by a mortar in Iraq just last year. Barnes was fortunate, 
he had a mother who was a dedicated nurse who stood by him during his 
days at Walter Reed.

Barnes, now 23, was frequently left unattended, his mother, Valerie 
Wallace said, even though he had a severe brain injury. He fell 
repeatedly. Orderlies failed to arrive on time to wheel him to 
appointments. Medicines were given in the wrong doses; paperwork was 
lost or never filed.

'' 'I don't think anybody planned this war far out,' said Wallace, an 
energetic woman who looks younger than her 45 years. 'If you are going 
to invade a country and you are expecting to be there for years, you've 
got to know there are going to be thousands of casualties,' she said. 
'How are you going to take care of them? Where are you going to put 
them?'

''Wallace is a registered nurse who has worked for more than a decade 
at Tampa General Hospital. She wasn't intimidated by the staff at 
Walter Reed, and she knew what questions to ask. Still, the layers of 
bureaucracy were overwhelming. The need to remain constantly vigilant 
was exhausting. Trust quickly evaporated.

'' 'Nobody tells you anything,' Wallace said. 'Nobody prepares you 
for anything. You're very much on your own in a world you don't know or 
understand, and you are so overcome with grief and worry that you can't 
think straight anyway.' ''

Well, these and other stories emboldened military families across the 
country and all Americans to stand up and demand better treatment for 
our troops and families who have sacrificed so much.

As Speaker Pelosi reminds us often, the support provided to our 
troops by the Bush administration has not matched their sacrifice, and, 
Mr. Speaker, we will rectify that today.

I wish, back in late 2003, when an Army specialist from Tampa named 
Corey Magee contacted my office, because I was a county commissioner 
before I was elected to Congress. His family contacted me and said 
Corey has been shot in the fire fight in Fallujah after an IED blew up 
his tank. He was shot in the neck and paralyzed and eventually flown to 
Walter Reed. In some God-given circumstance, I happened to be traveling 
to Washington that weekend and was able to assemble a care package from 
his family to deliver to Corey. But they couldn't find out what his 
situation was. We called and called. We enlisted the help of a United 
States Senator at the time who was on the Veterans' Committee. We


still couldn't get through the bureaucracy.

I had to travel with the Senator's staff to Walter Reed Hospital, and 
track down the doctor to find out what brave Corey Magee's prognosis 
was. He was a brave young guy, and really in his condition couldn't ask 
for help on his own. And do you know, after that he thanked us 
profusely for contacting his family and filling them in. He said, ''I 
am sure we won't have to call you again. They are going to take good 
care of me.''

He returned to Tampa, and I was surprised a few weeks later to get a 
phone call from this brave Army specialist because he was having 
trouble getting his physical therapy appointments at the Veterans 
Hospital.



So this bill, though it is a step in the right direction today, comes 
a bit too late. I wish this bill and I wish the attention had been 
focused earlier and the respect paid to these families by the Bush 
administration.

As I visited the Bay Pines VA Medical Center in St. Petersburg just a 
few weeks ago, you see there are a few brave soldiers there who are 
very symbolic of soldiers across the country that are suffering from 
post-traumatic stress disorder.

One of the soldiers was in his early 20s, had served in Iraq, come 
back, trying to get his life together, but it was too much. The mental 
scars were too much. The post-traumatic stress set in. His young 
marriage faltered. He lost his job, meaning he eventually lost his 
home, and ended up as an alcoholic, a homeless alcoholic in his early 
20s because of post-traumatic stress disorder.

What he explained to me was what he needed when he came out of the 
service was a helping hand. He needed someone proactively to say, are 
you all right, son, rather than to give him a checklist to check off to 
make sure he was okay.

These are tough guys. They are not going to own up oftentimes to the 
fact that they cannot sleep at night and they want to drink their 
sorrows and memories away.

Fortunately, I think the American people can be very heartened today 
to know that this is a bipartisan effort. Under the leadership of our 
Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, I am very fortunate to serve on the Armed 
Services Committee under the leadership of Chairman Ike Skelton, and I 
salute him and the ranking member for moving this legislation quickly. 
We salute the Veterans' Affairs Committee and Chairman Bob Filner but, 
mostly, the leadership of the American people who have cried out for 
change.

Through this rule and this bill, we are going to improve the health 
care and mental health for our wounded warriors. We are going to tackle 
the bureaucracy on their behalf. We are going to establish a toll-free 
hotline so that families and soldiers and anyone who cares about them 
can report deficiencies in our system. We are going to require 
expedited action.

Thanks to the leadership of subcommittee Chair Vic Snyder, now 
Members of Congress that have desired information about the soldiers 
returning to their districts are going to be notified. Members of 
Congress oftentimes can be the best advocates for these returning 
soldiers, and now it will be a requirement in the law.

We are going to provide medical advocates to these soldiers. We are 
going to improve support services to families; and, rather than 
mismanage resources, we are going to turn the White House's 
privatization initiative around and require accountability.

Coming from Tampa, the home of the Haley VA Center and one of the 
four polytrauma centers in the country, I am especially heartened by 
the provisions in this bill that improve veterans health care by 
providing more physician residents in those polytrauma centers. ABC's 
News anchor, Bob Woodruff, brought this to life in his hour-long expose 
a few weeks ago. He visited the Haley Polytrauma Center in Tampa. These 
are where the most critically injured soldiers are sent for their 
health care, the brain injuries, the spinal cord injuries.

What Dr. Robert Scott, the medical director at that medical facility, 
told me a few weeks ago is, even though the polytrauma center is 
directly across the street from the University of South Florida College 
of Medicine, they cannot get the physician residents in training. The 
Feds are not providing enough. We need these doctors in training to 
learn and train about these critical war injuries and the physical 
therapy that our soldiers need.

So, Mr. Speaker, I urge this new Congress to chart a new direction 
today and to erase the moral stain on our Nation's conscience.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.