# None
## `e7fddb90684950ca05454a462c5dc0c7`
`Ms. RICHARDSON — 8 October 2009`

---


Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, as one of the House conferees of this 
report, I have no confusion in terms of why I'm here and what we're 
doing to support the troops. I rise in strong support of this rule and 
the conference report of H.R. 2647, and I will submit my full statement 
for the Record.

I thank Chairman Skelton for his continued skillful leadership, for 
the Speaker appointing me as a conferee, and Mr. Oberstar for 
recommending me. What is the report about? There's no covers here. The 
report is clear. It's about restoring and enhancing the readiness of 
our troops and the equipment. It's about taking care of our military 
personnel, and it also authorizes needed investments to keep our Nation 
strong.

So let's talk about what that means. Troops, enabling that the 
Department of Defense would have 213 C-17s so we can support our men 
and women; that our military families would not have to wait on a 3.4 
percent military raise that they've long deserved. But let me focus my 
final moment on why and what my specialty is and what I think is so 
important in this bill, talking about port security as national 
security.

When we consider the provision that is in this bill, port security, 
infrastructure, development program, it will enable our ports to 
finally come up to speed where we can be competitive, as well as the 
economic engine that we reside in.

Now, let's talk about the ports. The role of our ports is not just 
economics. It's to connect the ports. That's the point. And when you 
look at 14 commercial ports currently in the United States, two of 
which are in my area, they are called strategic ports for that very 
reason. When you look at Operation Enduring Freedom, that was the 
largest area where we had the sealift tonnage and troops that were 
moved through the ports to enable us to respond.

So when we talk about this Defense authorization bill, it's quite 
clear why


we're here today. We're here to talk about our troops, to prepare them 
and to give them the resources that they so richly deserve. Currently, 
our ports are struggling without enough money for the Army Corps to do 
the proper dredging.

I urge my colleagues to support this, and I stand in support of Ms. 
Slaughter as we move forward on this rule.

Mr. Speaker, as one of the House conferees on this report, I rise in 
strong support of the rule and the underlying Conference Report on H.R. 
2647, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, 
which provides $550.2 billion in budget authority for the Department of 
Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy.

I thank Chairman Skelton for his skillful leadership in shepherding 
this legislation to the floor. I also wish to express my appreciation 
to Speaker Pelosi for appointing me as a conferee. And I cannot say how 
much it means to me to have the confidence of my chairman, Mr. 
Oberstar, who recommended me to the Speaker. Mr. Speaker, I support the 
conference report for three reasons: (1) it restores and enhances the 
readiness of our troops, equipment, and defense infrastructure; (2) it 
takes care of our military personnel and their families; and (3) it 
authorizes the needed investments to keep our nation strong, safe, and 
respected in the world.

Let me briefly highlight some of the key provisions. This 
legislation:












 Troop and Equipment Readiness


Increases the size of our overstretched military by 30,000 Army 
troops, 8,100 Marines, 14,650 Air Force personnel, and 2,477 Navy 
sailors as requested by the President and Commander-in-Chief;

Provides $6.9 billion to address equipment shortfalls in the National 
Guard and Reserves;

Provides $4.7 billion for training opportunities for the Army;

Adds $350 million for Army trainee barracks construction and $200 
million to support National Guard and Reserve military construction 
projects;

Requires DoD to maintain a strategic airlift fleet of 316 aircraft, 
an increase of 24 over previous requirement, which should help bring us 
closer to the goal of maintaining the full complement--at least 213--of 
C-17's, the incomparable and irreplaceable air transport that is 
assembled in my congressional district.













 Help for Military Families


Provides a 3.4 percent military pay raise;

Prohibits fee increases on TRICARE inpatient care for 1 year;

Provides $2.2 billion for family housing programs;

Adds $276 million to support the Housing Assistance Program that 
helps service members forced to sell their homes at a significant loss;

Provides travel and transportation for three designated persons, 
including non-family members, to visit hospitalized service members.












Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan


Bans permanent bases in Iraq and prohibits U.S. control of Iraqi oil;

Requires report on responsible redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq;

Bans permanent bases in Afghanistan;

Requires reports to assess progress toward security and stability in 
Afghanistan and in Pakistan;

Requires a system to register and track all U.S. defense articles 
provided to Afghanistan and Pakistan;

Directs GAO to provide separate reports assessing the strategic plans 
for Iraq and Afghanistan.











Port Security and National Security


Mr. Speaker, in my remaining time let me discuss an additional reason 
why I support the conference report. Working together constructively, 
the conferees were able to reach agreement and included in the 
Conference Report provisions establishing a port infrastructure 
development program. Let me explain why this is a significant, 
constructive, and necessary enhancement to the bill. The subject is 
very important but I will be brief.

