# SENATE AGENDA
## `e80671576c93214ac1f5c44fec9cfb08`
`Mr. MERKLEY — 1 December 2010`

---


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I also rise to talk about the importance 
of creating jobs and how the Republican plan is the exact opposite. We 
have on our desks this letter that was put forward that says there 
should be tax cuts for all Americans. Well, you know what, that is the 
Democratic plan. That is the plan we have been putting forward that 
would create tax cuts on the first $250,000 that every single American 
makes. But if you scanned the letter the Republicans signed, you find 
in the fine print, down there in the third paragraph that, no, it is 
not tax cuts for all Americans that they want; they want a version that 
creates bonuses, paid by the taxpayer, for billionaires. Bonuses for 
billionaires. That is the only version they want to see debated, the 
only version they say they will vote for, and it is the sole goal they 
put as an obstacle to every other important piece of legislation to get 
America back to work.

We have been trying so hard this year to get job-creation bills on 
the floor of the Senate, and we have endured a recordbreaking number of 
filibusters.

When I came here as an intern back in 1976, bills were passed by 
majority vote. Upon rare occasion, someone would say an issue is so 
important as to obstruct the Senate. But not our Republican majority. 
Not this year in 2010. Not last year in 2009. No. My colleagues have 
said: It is our goal to paralyze the Senate. It is our goal not only to 
prevent legislation from occurring but to damage the executive branch 
by obstructing nominations in unprecedented numbers and to damage the 
judicial branch by obstructing nominations.

This attack on the American system of government has gone way too 
far, and now my friends across the aisle say: Unless we get bonuses for 
billionaires, paid for by the taxpayers of the United States of 
America, we will block every effort to create jobs in this country. At 
some point, it needs to be said on the floor of the Senate--and so I am 
saying it now--that is simply wrong. It is misguided to put the top 
priorities to be billionaire bonuses. I think the American public 
weighed in on this in the discussion over Wall Street. It is wrong to 
fund those bonuses out of the pockets of working Americans who are 
paying their taxes, and it is certainly wrong to bring this body to a 
standstill once again in order to get those bonuses for billionaires.

I would like to ask my friends across the aisle to reconsider the 
substance of their vision for America, a vision in which ordinary 
workers fund extravagant bonuses for the richet Americans--how big a 
bonus? An average of $100,000. Now, I can tell you, in my working-class 
neighborhood, there are very few people who earn $100,000 a year. There 
are folks who might not earn $100,000 in the course of multiple years 
because they are working for minimum wage. They may be earning, if they 
can get a full-time minimum wage job, $16,000. If they are working two 
jobs and their spouse is working, maybe they can bring home $30,000 or 
$40,000.

So I would suggest that stopping the business of the Senate to create 
a $100,000-per-taxpayer bonus--and I say ''bonus'' because it is on top 
of the tax cut they would get under the Democratic plan--is simply 
completely out of touch with the challenges faced by ordinary working 
Americans who are trying to make ends meet, who would like to see us 
spend the funds in our Treasury to create jobs because they know the 
best program for any single person is the opportunity to have a living-
wage job. It not only creates the finances that shore up the 
foundations of the family, it creates a sense of pride, it creates a 
sense of work ethic, it provides a strong example to our children, it 
builds a family. But a $100,000 bonus for the richest Americans does 
not build those financial foundations for working Americans, and 
funding it out of the pockets of the working Americans is absolutely 
one of the most diabolical plots I could have ever imagined--in fact, I 
couldn't probably have imagined. If it would have been in a novel that 
my colleagues are bringing the work of the Senate to a stop in order to 
do $100,000 bonuses for the richest Americans, funded by the rest of 
the taxpayers, I would have said: No way. That plot is beyond anything 
that could possibly happen on the Senate


floor. But today we have it right here in writing that it has to be the 
billionaire bonus plan or none at all.

But at any point, the Senate can, by unanimous consent, come back to 
its senses and pursue that which builds our economy, builds opportunity 
for working Americans. There have been a host of bipartisan bills that 
have said: There is a strategy that is estimated to create more jobs 
than any other per dollar invested, and that is low-cost loans for 
energy-saving renovations. This core idea recognizes that very few of 
us can go out and put double-paned vinyl windows in our house or full 
insulation in our house because we do not have the money in our bank 
account for the upfront costs. But if we can get a low-cost loan, then 
we can, in fact, pay for those vinyl windows out of the savings on our 
electric bill.

This basic concept is a concept now embodied in the HOME Star bill, a 
bipartisan bill. It is the basic concept embodied in the Building Star 
bill, which aims more at commercial buildings. It is the same basic 
concept embodied in the Rural Energy Savings Program, which is not only 
a bipartisan bill but is fiercely advocated for by our rural electrical 
co-ops that understand this would be a tremendous value to Americans in 
rural America. Knowing we can bring the Senate back to do good work 
through unanimous consent, I am going to ask for such unanimous 
consent.

I will start with a bill, which is the rural energy savings plan 
bill, supported by rural co-ops across America so rural Americans such 
as those in rural Oregon, such as those in rural Illinois, such as 
those in rural Tennessee, such as those throughout rural America 
everywhere can pursue these low-cost, easy-to-arrange loans through 
their local electric co-op. One of the reasons people get excited about 
this concept is, it is not just about the fact that your house now 
functions a lot better with these energy-saving renovations. It is not 
just about the fact that now the monthly cost of your electric bill or 
your gas bill goes down, often more than your loan payments would be, 
but it is the fact that through this kind of conservation, we actually 
create jobs--installation jobs and jobs producing the products for 
those energy-saving installations. Because virtually every aspect, from 
caulk to pink fiberglass to double-paned windows, is made here in 
America, manufactured in America. So people know they are not only 
creating jobs locally, but they are creating jobs in manufacturing 
America. If we don't build things in America, we will not have a middle 
class in America. People understand this at their core.

There is something else they like about this. Every time we address 
our energy needs domestically, we are decreasing our demand for foreign 
oil. Why does that make Americans smile? Because we would rather have 
red, white, and blue American energy and American energy savings than 
import oil from overseas. When we buy that oil from overseas, the money 
goes out of the economy. It doesn't go into the local grocery store. It 
doesn't go into the local retailer on Main Street. It doesn't build the 
financial foundations of American families. It goes to places such as 
Iraq and Saudi Arabia and Nigeria and Venezuela. What is happening with 
the money that goes overseas to places such as that? Some of it ends up 
in the hands of terrorists who oppose our policies around the world.

It has been said by national security experts that our current wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan are the first American wars where we are 
funding both sides. What they are referring to is our purchase of 
foreign oil. So when we engage in energy savings here, we are doing 
what is right for our economy and for our families and for our national 
security.

By the way, these types of jobs cannot be shipped overseas, 
installation cannot be shipped overseas. Not only are the materials 
made in America, the installation can't be shipped overseas. It is the 
perfect strategy to help address the challenges in our current economy. 
That is why I have some hope my colleagues across the aisle will join 
in this unanimous consent to get this bill done so we can help folks in 
rural America get back to work, improve their homes, shore up their 
financial foundations and, in the process, improve our national 
security.

I ask unanimous consent that the Agriculture Committee be discharged 
from further consideration of S. 3102; that the Senate proceed to its 
immediate consideration, the bill be read three times and passed, the 
motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, with no intervening action 
or debate, and that any statements relating to the measure be printed 
in the Record.