---
---

# None
## `e8091d9f6e519f00a20443797f32faae`
`Mr. INHOFE — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I would like to take a little longer 
view of what is going on right now in the war for the liberation of 
Iraq, the good things that are happening, the surge, and kind of go 
back to give a better perspective as to how we got here in the first 
place.

There was this euphoria that was going around back in the early 
1990s: The Cold War is over, we don't need a military any longer. They 
talked about such things as the peace dividend at that time, and this 
is what precipitated 9/11. The Clinton administration came in, and this 
is the amount of the actual DOD budget at that time. This was the 
baseline. This is a very simple chart that tells us a lot. If we were 
to merely have maintained the level of defense spending as it took 
place in the last year of the Bush 1 administration and then had 
nothing except the inflation rate, which wasn't all that great, it 
would be this black line taking us up to fiscal year 2001. This was 
what would have happened if we didn't do anything else. But down here 
the red line indicates where President Clinton made his budget request. 
That was his annual DOD request. If you forget about the middle line, 
the difference between his request and if we just maintained the same 
position that we were in in fiscal year 1993, it would have been $412 
billion less; in other words, in that short timeframe, we would have 
cut defense real spending in constant dollars by $412 billion.

The Congress didn't let that happen. This middle line, the green 
line, is what actually was budgeted. So what we did was to say to the 
White House: You are not taking good enough care of our military needs. 
And so we raised it by about $99 billion over that period. That means 
the real shortfall was $313 billion in that timeframe.

I show this chart because there was an attitude in this country at 
that time that there weren't any real serious problems. People kept 
saying we were the world's greatest superpower, and we appropriated 
more money than anyone else. I wanted it to continue that way, but 
there were some things that were going on that I would like to remind 
us of. That was called an acquisition holiday or a peace dividend. I 
think it was more of a holiday in leadership at that time. 
International terrorism took to the forefront as bin Laden began his 
war against freedom. Afghanistan was used as a training ground for 
terrorists, and the Taliban regime allowed al-Qaida unfettered 
mobility. We were on holiday. We were not fighting back. They took 
advantage of this in some major attacks.

Somehow I think the memory of the American people isn't very long 
because they forgot about these attacks that were taking place. 
Remember the first attack on the World Trade Center was in 1993, 
February 26. It was a car bomb that was planted in an underground 
parking garage below the World Trade Center, and that was way back in 
1993. In 1996, the Khobar Towers, we remember that well. They were 
bombed by Hezbollah with the intelligence pointing toward al-Qaida, 
still al-Qaida. At the same time this was going on, in northern Africa 
their presence was visible at that time. Further on down in southern 
Africa we had the Embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania. That was in 
1998. That was in Dar es Salaam and Nairobi. It went unanswered at that 
time. So we had all of this going up through 1998.

Then there is the year 2000, when suicide bombers used a boat to 
attack the USS Cole while it was moored in Yemen.

Yemen is right at the horn of Africa on the other side. And now we 
know that as the squeeze has taken place, that has become a very 
prominent place for al-Qaida and for the terrorists. So you had 
Djibouti, we were starting to put troops in there, but we had that 
suicide bombing. That was a major thing. It let us know, it reminded us 
that we could have a ship, the USS Cole at that time, and have nothing 
but just a little outrigger going out there and blowing it up and 
causing the deaths and the damage that took place.

The response--this was back in the first of the Clinton years--was 
pretty benign. It was restrained and at best inconsistent. Operation 
Infinite Reach included cruise missile attacks against Afghanistan and 
Sudan. There was no real change. The administration was distracted at 
that time. This inadequate response has been cited as a factor 
emboldening al-Qaida to undertake further plans. Yet we continued on 
our holiday at that time. In Operation Restore Hope, we became 
embroiled in Somalia, and we remember what happened in the streets of 
Mogadishu when finally the people woke up when they saw the naked 
bodies dragged through the streets. President Clinton directed U.S. 
forces to stop all actions except those required in self-defense, and 
we withdrew from the country shortly thereafter.

It is kind of hard for America to get in the habit of withdrawing. We 
stake out our position, and we have historically stood strong and 
carried it out. In


1999, as a NATO member, the United States became involved in a bombing 
campaign against Yugoslavia and a subsequent U.N. peacekeeping force. 
The holiday that we were on at that time ignored the rising threats 
against our national security, mortgaged our military, leaving a bold 
challenge for the next administration.

The first Rumsfeld confirmation was rather enlightening because what 
we did at that time was to try to determine what our needs were going 
to be for the future. We had to rethink where we were before. And at 
that time we were trying to reevaluate where we were. We were recalling 
some of the bad things that had happened. We remember so well the 1991 
Persian Gulf war. There was a group that went over, a bipartisan group. 
I remember Tony Coelho at the time. He had been the Democratic lead in 
the House. I was in the House at the time. We had the first freedom 
fight, and we sent a group over to Kuwait. It was the day that the war 
was officially over. The problem was the Iraqis didn't know that the 
war was over at that time, and so we had the first freedom fight. We 
went over there.

Al Haig, I ran into him the other day. We kind of relived that 
experience we had over there. We had with us a very special guest. He 
was the Kuwaiti Ambassador to the United States. He had his daughter. 
They were a family of nobility. They had a palace on the Persian Gulf. 
But, of course, they hadn't been there because that was a war zone, 
that was Kuwait. So we went over there, this group of nine of us, 
Democrats and Republicans, and I remember when the wind shifted, the 
oil fields were still burning. It was a mess over there. But they 
wanted to go back, the Ambassador wanted to go back and see what their 
house looked like, if it had been damaged in the war.

When we got there, we found that his house had been used for one of 
Saddam Hussein's headquarters. His daughter, she was either 7, 8, or 9 
years old. I remember so well because she wanted to go up and see her 
bedroom and the dolls and all of that. We went up into this mansion on 
the Persian Gulf, a beautiful place, only to find out that her bedroom 
had been used as a torture chamber. There were body parts stuck to the 
walls. I saw a little boy who had his ear cut off, maybe 6 or 7 years 
old, because they found him carrying a tiny American flag. That was 
back at the time when unconscionable murders were taking place where 
Saddam Hussein, after that was over, started killing anyone who was 
suspect and torturing them to death. There are stories documented that 
people would beg to be dropped, lowered into vats of acid head first so 
they would die quicker.

Being put through grinding machines, like you are shredding 
documents; the open graves; the documentation of weddings that were for 
a while taking place--many of them outdoors; that is the way they did 
it over in that area--and Saddam's sons, at that time they were alive 
and the regime was in there, they would go through and bust up weddings 
and rape all the girls and take them and bury them alive. I actually 
looked down into those open graves, and people were so quick to forget 
what a monster he was.

I have often said, even if that had not happened, even if we did not 
have the problems with the terrorist activity in Iraq and the fact that 
they were training people in Iraq to be involved in terrorist 
activity--al-Qaida was very prominent--that even if that had not been 
the case, how could we as a country allow the hundreds of thousands of 
people to be tortured to death in such a cruel way? I do not think we 
could. Certainly, we could not if people had a chance to see it.

So the time went by, and they started talking about, of course, going 
into this liberation movement in Iraq.

Now, there has been a lot of discussion over the years about weapons 
of mass destruction. Those of us who were over there--I would say to 
you, Madam President, that while I have not been this many times to 
Iraq, I have actually been in the area 27 different trips--27 different 
times. Sometimes it was at CENTCOM, sometimes the Horn of Africa and 
other areas. But, see, the terrorist activity and the war was not just 
in Iraq. It was in the whole surrounding area. So in all those times I 
was there, I had a chance to, on a firsthand basis, see what was 
involved.

We know we had to go in there. We know we had to go in there and 
finish what had been started in Iraq.

Now, there are three things that were started. No. 1, we had to 
liberate Iraq from a tyrannical leader--we have already talked about 
him--No. 2, eliminate a safe haven for terrorists and their training 
camps; and then, No. 3, to help the Iraqi people create a free and 
democratic country strategically located right in the Middle East where 
we have the greatest needs.

Well, No. 1, the liberation of Iraq: After the first Persian Gulf 
war, I told you, we had what we called the first freedom flight into 
Kuwait. But that liberation was necessary to put an end to Saddam 
Hussein's regime of torture.

Now, when they talked about weapons of mass destruction, yes, weapons 
of mass destruction were not found. We know they were there. They were 
used on the Kurds in the north. Saddam Hussein used weapons of mass 
destruction to painfully murder thousands of his own people using gas 
that burned them alive. That was happening. But, nonetheless, for those 
of us who were aware, that was not the real reason.

If you look at the second reason, that Iraq was a major terrorist 
training area--a lot of us are familiar with Samarra and Ramadi, but 
some have forgotten or may have never even known about some of the 
other areas.

Sargat was an international terrorist training camp in northeastern 
Iraq near the Iranian border, run by Ansar al-Islam, a known terrorist 
organization. Based on information from the U.S. Army Special Forces, 
operators who led the attack on Sargat said: It is indeed more than 
plausible that al-Qaida members trained in that particular training 
camp.

Now, one of the interesting places where this was taking place was a 
place called Salman Pak. In Salman Pak they had--and I think it is 
still there to this day--on the ground an old fuselage of a 707, and 
that was used to train people on how to hijack airplanes. I have often 
wondered if that could have been where the perpetrators of 9/11 got 
their training. I have no way of knowing. We never will know. But we do 
know this: That location, along with the problems in Sargat, had major 
training areas for the terrorists. So we were able to shut those down. 
I would say this: That alone would be enough motivation for us to go 
and liberate the people of Iraq.

But the third one is to help the Iraqi people create a free and 
democratic country. Iraq is trying to do what we tried to do 230 years 
ago. They are risking their lives, as we risked our lives some 230 
years ago. They are seeking a constitution, a parliament, freedom, and 
democracy. These are things they are trying to accomplish.

I think of that first election that took place out in Fallujah, when 
the Iraqi security forces were going to vote. I was there. I was in 
Fallujah actually for all three elections, I believe. But I remember 
the Iraqi security forces in that first election. Everybody remembers 
the purple fingers so they could identify who was voting in those 
elections. And these guys--the security forces--went out and voted the 
day before the elections. They did not wait for the elections. They 
were doing it the day before so they would be there on election day to 
provide the security.

People were risking their lives to go out and vote. We know the cases 
of people being attacked by the terrorists to keep them from voting. 
They were easy to identify because of the purple fingers. But these 
guys were gladly going in there at that time, going to vote, and then 
returning the next day to protect our people who were there.

Our men and women serving in Iraq are providing the Iraqis the same 
inspiration our forefathers provided us. Iraq is becoming an example to 
the world of how to reject terror and confront those who practice it. 
The world sees now the Iraqi citizens are realizing their potential, 
signing up as Concerned Citizens, sons of Iraq--72,000.

It is a pretty amazing thing when you look and see that instead of 
the mass graves and all these things, you are seeing a mass 
participation in Iraq. They are returning to normalcy now. A lot of 
people are asking: Is the surge really working? I do not believe anyone 
is out there who can conscientiously deny that the surge has worked.

It was about a year ago that General Petraeus went in. What happened? 
Three things happened. One was that


Petraeus--by far, the greatest guy for the job out there; and I do not 
think anyone except moveon.org disagrees with that now--that Petraeus 
took over. Secondly, the surge, in certain strategic areas, increased 
in numbers. But the third thing that happened was there have been so 
many resolutions like the one that is before us right now that I refer 
to as ''resolutions of surrender'' that got the attention of a lot of 
the religious leaders.

I often draw a distinction from my own personal experience. I have 
met with the political leaders, of course, like all the other Members 
who have gone over there. I have done it more because I have been there 
more times. But the religious leaders are the ones who have the 
greatest impact on what is going on in Iraq. Up until--and this is a 
statement no one has refuted--up until about a year ago, our defense 
intelligence people would attend and monitor the Friday night mosque 
meetings that took place throughout Iraq. These are with the clerics 
and the imams, the religious leaders. Prior to that time, 85 percent of 
the messages that were preached, I guess you would say, in the mosques 
were anti-American. To my knowledge, there has not been an anti-
American message given from a mosque in Iraq since last April because 
they realize if we leave, then the terrorists will move in.


So that is why we are getting--it has been talked about by many 
people on the Senate floor--the attitudinal change. The neighborhood 
watch programs--in my hometown of Tulsa, OK, we have a neighborhood 
watch program. We have them in Washington. They have them over there, 
with private citizens who have the courage to go out without any arms 
and confront terrorists; where they can, through their own intelligence 
and sheer numbers, determine where there are RPGs and IEDs that are not 
detonated, and then they identify them by little orange paint cans, 
where they draw a circle around there, and then we can go in there and 
detonate these and save many lives.

Well, we are today experiencing all that help. I can remember when 
our troops who were working out of Baghdad would come back to the Green 
Zone every night. They do not do that anymore. They go out and they 
actually bed down and live with the Iraqi security forces and their 
families, develop intimate relationships with them. It is a totally 
different thing there altogether.

I can remember there was not a way in the world you could walk 
through the markets in Baghdad. The last time I was there, I walked 
through, and I intentionally did not take anybody with me except an 
interpreter because I did not want to give that image that you have to 
have armed guards and all that, and I remember stopping and talking to 
people. I like to single out people who are holding babies. They have 
this love for us that they did not have before.

So we now see these changes that are taking place. We see that basic 
economics is taking root and Iraqis are spending money on Iraqi 
projects. Iraqis are taking back control of their country. We are 
helping the Iraqi people create a free and democratic country where 
representation and the rule of law are replacing coercion and terror.

The Iraqi Parliament has passed legislation that reforms 
debaathification. They have enacted pension reform that allows former 
Baathists to collect their pension. They have enacted laws defining 
provincial and central government roles and responsibilities to 
delineate what each person is supposed to do--the distinction between 
the police and the security forces, what their functions are, what 
their missions are.

They passed a 2008 budget. They did it sooner than we did it in this 
country. They enacted an amnesty law that could lead to the release of 
thousands of detainees, removing a stumbling block standing in the way 
of reconciliation.

More than any previous legislation, these new initiatives have the 
potential to spur reconciliation between Sunnis and Shiites and set the 
country on the road to a more representative government, starting with 
new provincial elections.

Now, in the future, where do we go from here? Our Nation has paid, 
and continues to pay, a heavy price. People in this Chamber have talked 
about the heavy price. They are right. It is not cheap. It is very 
expensive. We have paid a heavy price in dollars and lives, with our 
sons and daughters and brothers and sisters. We are doing a difficult 
thing. But just as Americans have always tried to do the right thing, 
we are doing the right thing in Iraq.

Iraq is at a decisive turning point in their journey toward 
democracy. The fight in Iraq is not about today or tomorrow but about 
many tomorrows to come and about the future. It is about our 
grandchildren's grandchildren and the world they will live in.

It is not just Iraq. Right now, a lot of concern is taking place as 
to Iran and Ahmadinejad and some of the political leaders and the 
things they are promoting. One of the greatest obstacles they have in 
Iran is they are right next door to Iraq, and there are so many people 
who share family members, and they are looking over wistfully and 
seeing that people are getting married without the disruptions, that 
girls are actually getting an education. This is not the Iraq they knew 
before. So these things are happening.

Secretary Gates said:




 If we were to withdraw, leaving Iraq in chaos, al Qaeda 


 almost certainly would use Anbar province . . . as another 


 base from which to plan operations not only inside Iraq, but 


 first of all in the neighborhood and then potentially against 


 the United States.


Al-Qaida is not the only threat to America and our ideals. I 
mentioned a minute ago Ahmadinejad. He said, on August 28, 2007--just a 
short while ago--




 Soon, we will see a huge power vacuum in the region.


Now, what he was talking about is the type of resolution we are 
considering right now. He is saying a cut-and-run resolution would 
create a huge power vacuum. What else did he say? He said that 
expecting this defeatism, expecting that we would vote for this--which 
we are not. We are not going to vote for this resolution. We know that. 
We have had the same resolution voted down 71 to 24 the last time we 
had a vote on it. But, nonetheless, he said: ''Of course, we are 
prepared to fill the gap. . . .''

So you have Iran filling the gap that would be there if we were to 
get up and leave in the victorious moments we are having now.

Iran's nuclear work continues, including recent doubling of their 
enrichment of uranium, which could easily be used as part of a nuclear 
weapons program, a decision in the hands of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

In the last 2 years Iran has continued to develop ballistic missile 
technology, launching missiles over 2,000 kilometers.

Coalition forces have intercepted Iranian arms shipments in Iraq, 
including materials that are used to make explosively formed 
penetrators, the EFPs, the most deadly of the IEDs, which are being 
used against American troops. This is what Iran is doing today.

Coalition forces have also detained Iranian agents in Iraq. A lack of 
a secure and stable Iraq means instability in the Middle East and a 
clear avenue for terror and oppression to spread. Instability in the 
Middle East will continue to spread, as it already has, into Africa, 
Asia, and Europe, and ultimately find its way to our shores.

We know what is happening right now in Africa. I know probably more 
than some of the others do, because I have seen firsthand. I have sat 
down and talked with such Presidents as President Museveni in Uganda. I 
have talked to Prime Minister Meles in Somalia--in Ethiopia, and many 
of the others, including John Kufuor in Ghana, all about the threat 
they face of terrorism all throughout Africa. In our infinite wisdom 
here, it was our decision a few years ago to go in and help the 
Africans build five African brigades, so that as this moves into their 
area, they are able to fight off terrorism without using our troops. We 
have such programs as the 1206, 1207, and 1208, where we are arming and 
equipping, training and equipping programs for these countries. These 
are things we are helping them do so we can avoid having to be on the 
front lines of the battle against the terrorists. They can do that too.

Patrick Henry said:




 We shall not fight our battles alone. There is a just God 


 who presides over the destinies of nations, and who will 


 raise up friends to fight our battles with us.





That is what is happening over there at this time.

So the coalition forces have been doing a great job, and right now we 
are observing the successes of the surge. They watch with great 
interest as defeatist legislation is repeatedly brought up on the 
floor, hoping that Congress will do what they cannot: give them victory 
in Iraq and the Middle East. So we must not try to micromanage our 
military. One of the two bills that is on the floor right now would 
actually micromanage it. It is as if we in our infinite wisdom in the 
Senate are smarter than General Petraeus, General Odierno, and all of 
the professionals. Yes, I was in the U.S. Army many years ago, so I 
have some hands-on experience in this type of thing, certainly not that 
of the professionals. The worst thing we can do is try to micromanage 
our military and place restrictions on them, telling them how many 
troops they should withdraw and what our troop strength should be over 
there, and at the same time anything we do over here, the enemy knows 
we are doing it also. Our professional warriors want to and can succeed 
with our support.

That is what this is all about. I have no doubt in my mind we will 
defeat these things. In a way, I am glad Senator Feingold brought these 
bills to the floor, because this gives us a forum to talk to the 
American people about things they may not be getting in the media. It 
is interesting that it used to be when I went over to Iraq, the first 
thing the kids over there would ask me is why doesn't the media like 
me. They don't talk that way anymore. Even people who were anti this 
administration, people such as Katie Couric, went over and observed 
what is going on. Once you go and observe, you can see we are winning, 
this is working, and this liberation is taking place.

I know my 30 minutes has expired, but we are here to continue what we 
have started. The worst thing we could do right now is to take success 
out of the hands of the military who are successfully winning the 
liberation of Iraq and start to micromanage this politically from the 
Senate floor. This isn't going to happen. We are winning over there 
now. It is so refreshing, after all these years. Yes, it has been a 
long time. People keep reminding us this is longer than World War II. I 
know that, because each year I have had an opportunity to spend time 
over there, quality time, and see the changes that are taking place via 
the plan of this genius named David Petraeus, it is working. So we 
don't want to get in their way, and we won't get in their way, and we 
will go ahead and defeat these bills and let the military run the 
liberation as they see fit, and we are going to join them in our 
victory.

I yield the floor.