---
---

# AMERICA COMPETES ACT
## `e80b7dbe145a6cf0a8aaca183e57d7ce`
`Mr. ALEXANDER â€” 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. I would like to especially thank Matt Sonnesyn who is 
sitting here beside me. When I was permitted to be on the faculty of 
the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard at the time when the 
Senator from Arkansas's father was the Director of the Institute of 
Politics, Matt Sonnesyn was my course assistant. He came with me to my 
campaign, and then he came with me to the Senate. For the last 2 years, 
he has worked on this legislation with Senator Bingaman's staff and 
Senator Ensign's staff on this side--a tremendously effective staff 
group who has made this bill possible.

I see the Senator from Arkansas here, and I know he is going to close 
out in a few minutes, and I think I am coming toward the end of my 
remarks.

I would like to conclude by emphasizing two points--one about 
substance and one about process. I know the Senator from Arkansas and I 
have talked about this often. We are working together right now on a 
bipartisan project that has to do with the Iraq war. We believe there 
shouldn't be any partisan votes on the Iraq war. For example, we, 
Senator Salazar and I, are joined by 6 Republicans and 7 Democrats in 
cosponsoring legislation that would make the bipartisan Iraq Study 
Group the law of our country. If the Congress and the President would 
agree on this bill, we could send to our enemy and our troops and the 
world the message that as we go forward to wherever we go next in Iraq, 
we go together; we are united.

Each Tuesday we have a breakfast that Senator Lieberman and I host--
no staff, no media, no policy positions adopted--so that in the midst 
of all our team meetings among Republicans and Democrats, when we talk 
about what to do to each other, we can have a session where we build 
relationships and talk about how we move the country ahead. We have had 
as many as 40 Senators at those breakfasts.

It is important for the people of this country to know that we spend 
a lot of time working that way. We did tonight on the Children's Health 
Insurance bill with Senator Baucus and Senator Grassley working 
together in a bipartisan way. For 2 years, we have done that on 
legislation that goes straight to the heart of how we keep our jobs 
from going to China and India, which is what we passed tonight.

So the word I wish to say about process is that when the Senate tries 
and when we focus on big issues, we are perfectly capable of acting the 
way the rest of the country would hope we would act. We compromise on 
our differences and come up with a result that benefits family after 
family.

This legislation, the America COMPETES Act, will mean, for example, 
in my home State of Tennessee, opportunities for hundreds of math and 
science teachers and for thousands of students to go to summer 
academies and institutes of math and science. It will mean 
opportunities for thousands of students who now can't afford to take 
advanced placement courses in science and technology to be able to do 
so and for hundreds of teachers who aren't trained to teach those 
courses to have that training.

It will mean distinguished scientists will hold joint appointments at 
the University of Tennessee and Oak Ridge National Laboratory, for 
example. It will mean support for a residential high school for science 
and math, which we have wanted to do in our State ever since I was 
Governor 20 years ago but didn't feel like we had the money. Now other 
States have it, and this bill provides some support for such a school.

It will mean a steady growth over 7 years in research funding, new 
support for early-career research grants in science and technology, and 
more support for all those kinds of studies that create the jobs that 
will keep our standard of living. That is what it means for my State. 
It means the same for New Jersey, and it means the same for Arkansas. 
So that bipartisan consensus we have seen here happens more often than 
most Americans know, but it doesn't happen as often as it should.

So this has been a privilege for me to work, especially with Senator 
Bingaman and Senator Domenici on the committee that I was a part of, to 
help get this started with Bart Gordon, my colleague from the House, 
the Democratic Congressman who is chairman of the Science Committee, 
and with all the other Senators. This is the kind of thing I hoped to 
do when I came to the Senate. I think each of us hopes when we come 
here to get up every day and do a little something constructive and 
then go home at night and come back the next day and see if we can find 
something more to do along that way. If all of us participate in that 
way in other big issues, as we have in this, the America COMPETES bill, 
the Senate will be a stronger institution and the country will be a 
better country.

So I thank my colleagues for their support and for the time tonight. 
I thank the Senator from Arkansas for staying late so I can make these 
remarks. This legislation, the America COMPETES Act which passed the 
House today overwhelmingly and passed the Senate unanimously, is at 
least as important as any piece of legislation that passes in these 2 
years because we have accepted the advice of the wisest men and women 
in our country about what we ought to do to keep our brain power 
advantage so we can keep our jobs.

The President has done a big part of it. I am sure he will sign it. I 
hope he takes some credit because he deserves it. There is plenty of 
credit to go around. I think the country will be glad we acted.

I yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1

 Overview of the Conference Report on H.R. 2272, the America Creating 


Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, 








 Education, and Science Act (COMPETES)




 Earlier this year, both the U.S. House and Senate passed 


 comprehensive legislation (H.R. 2272, S. 761) to ensure our 


 nation's competitive position in the world through 


 improvements to math and science education and a strong 


 commitment to research.



 The Conference Agreement follows through on a commitment to 


 ensure U.S. students,




 teachers, businesses and workers are prepared to continue 


 leading the world in innovation, research and technology--


 well into the future.



 In summary, the Conference Agreement:



 Keeps research programs at National Science Foundation 


 (NSF), the National Institute of Standards and Technology 


 (NIST) and the Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science 


 on a near-term doubling path;



 Authorizes a total of $43.3 billion over fiscal years 2008-


 2010 for science, technology, engineering and mathematics 


 (STEM) research and education programs across the federal 


 government;



 Helps to prepare thousands of new teachers and provide 


 current teachers with content and teaching skills in their 


 area of education through NSF's Noyce Teacher Scholarship 


 Program and Math and Science Partnerships Program;



 Creates the Technology Innovation Program (TIP) at NIST 


 (replacing the existing Advanced Technology Program or ATP) 


 to fund high-risk, high-reward, pre-competitive technology 


 development with high potential for public benefit;



 Establishes an Advanced Research Projects Agency for Energy 


 (ARPA-E), a nimble and semiautonomous research agency at the 


 Department of Energy to engage in high-risk, high reward 


 energy research;



 Expands programs at NSF to enhance the undergraduate 


 education of the future science and engineering workforce, 


 including at 2-year colleges;



 Includes provisions throughout the bill to help broaden 


 participation in science and engineering fields at all 


 levels;



 Authorizes two new competitive grant programs that will 


 enable partnerships to implement courses of study in 


 mathematics, science, engineering, technology or critical 


 foreign languages in ways that lead to a baccalaureate degree 


 with concurrent teacher certification;



 Authorizes competitive grants to increase the number of 


 teachers serving high-need schools and expand access to AP 


 and IB classes and to increase the number of qualified AP and 


 IB teachers in high-need schools;



 Expands early career grant programs and provides additional 


 support for outstanding young investigators at both NSF and 


 DOE; and



 Strengthens interagency planning and coordination for 


 research infrastructure and information technology (i.e. 


 high-speed computing).



 Following are more detailed summaries of the conference 


 agreement's eight titles:


TITLE I--Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)/Government Wide 
















Science




 The conference agreement directs the President to convene a 


 National Science and Technology Summit to examine the health 


 and direction of the U.S. STEM enterprises; requires a 


 National Academy of Sciences study on barriers to innovation; 


 changes the National Technology Medal to the National 


 Technology and Innovation Medal; establishes a President's 


 Council on Innovation and Competitiveness (akin to the 


 President's Council on Science and Technology); requires 


 prioritization of planning for major research facilities and 


 instrumentation nationwide through the National Science 


 and Technology Council; and expresses a sense of Congress 


 that each federal research agency should support and 


 promote innovation through funding for high-risk, high-


 reward research.






TITLE II--National Aeronautics and Space Administration




 The conference agreement establishes the National 


 Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) as a full 


 participant in all interagency activities to promote 


 competitiveness and innovation and to enhance science, 


 technology, engineering and mathematics education. The 


 agreement also affirms the importance of NASA's aeronautics 


 program to innovation and to the competitiveness of the 


 United States. It urges NASA to implement a program to 


 address aging workforce issues at NASA and to utilize NASA's 


 existing Undergraduate Student Research program to support 


 basic research by undergraduates on subjects of relevance to 


 NASA. Finally, the conference agreement expresses the sense 


 of Congress that the International Space Station (ISS) 


 National Laboratory offers unique opportunities for 


 educational activities and provides a unique resource for 


 research and development in science, technology, and 


 engineering which can enhance the global competitiveness of 


 the U.S.





 TITLE III--National Institute of Standards and Technology




 The conference agreement authorizes a total of $2.652 


 billion over fiscal years 2008-2010 for NIST. This includes 


 funds for the NIST labs, for lab construction, the TIP 


 program, and the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) 


 Program: This funding level keeps the NIST labs on a path to 


 doubling in ten years.



 The conference agreement funds the NIST Labs at $502.1 


 million for FY08 and increases the funding by 8% per year 


 (10-year doubling), which result in $541.9 million in FY09 


 and $584.8 million in FY10. The conferenqe agreement provides 


 $150.9 million in FY08 for lab construction. This funding is 


 reduced in each of the next two fiscal years, with funding 


 provided at $86.4 million in FY09 and $49.7 million FY10. 


 These out-year funding levels will allow the completion of 


 construction projects at NIST's Boulder, CO and Gaithersburg, 


 MD facilities. The MEP program is funded at $110 million in 


 FY08, $122 million in FY09 and $131.8 million FY10.



 The conference agreement creates a new initiative, the 


 Technology Innovation Program (TIP) which is based on the 


 proven success of the Advanced Technology Program (ATP), but 


 better reflects global innovation competition by funding 


 high-risk, high-reward, pre-competitive technology 


 develoment, focusing on small- and medium-sized companies. 


 The TIP allows for greater industry input in the operation of 


 the program, allows university participation for the first 


 time, and firmly focuses the program on small- and medium-


 sized high-tech firms.



 TIP will replace ATP and bridge the funding gap between the 


 research lab and the marketplace. The conference agreement 


 provides an authorization of $100 million FY08, $131.5 


 million FY09 nd $140.5 million in FY10. These funding levels 


 will allow for a viable program, with approximately $40 


 million per year for new awards.



 The agreement includes language to clarify that the focus 


 of TIP is to support, promote and accelerate innovation in 


 the U.S. through high-risk, high-reward research in areas of 


 critical national need. It specifies that large companies may 


 not receive any TIP funding.



 Further, it provides a list of award criteria to ensure 


 that the proposed technology has a strong potential to 


 address critical national needs through transforming the 


 nation's capacity to deal with major societal challenges that 


 are not currently being addressed; that the applicant 


 provides evidence that the research will not be conducted 


 within a reasonable time period without TIP assistance; that 


 reasonable efforts were made by the applicant to secure 


 funding from alternative sources and that no other 


 alternative funding sources were reasonably available; and 


 that other entities have not already developed, 


 commercialized, marketed, distributed or sold similar 


 technologies. In addition, the NIST Director shall issue an 


 annual report on the program's activities. TIP may accept 


 funds from other federal agencies, and these funds will be 


 included as part of the federal cost share of any TIP 


 project.





 TITLE IV--National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration




 The conference agreement establishes a coordinated ocean, 


 Great Lakes, coastal and atmospheric research and development 


 program for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 


 Administration NOAA) in consultation with NSF and NASA. In 


 addition, NOAA is required to build upon existing educational 


 programs and activities to enhance public awareness and 


 understanding of the ocean, Great Lakes, and atmospheric 


 science. As a result, a science education plan is to be 


 developed that would set forth the goals and strategies for 


 NOAA, and be reevaluated and updated every 5 years. NOAA 


 would also be recognized for their historic contributions to 


 the innovation and competitiveness of this country, as well 


 as be recognized as a full participant in interagency efforts 


 to promote innovation and competitiveness.












 TITLE V--Department of Energy




 The conference agreement provides nearly $17 billion to 


 Department of Energy (DOE) programs over fiscal years 2008-


 2010, keeping Office of Science on a seven-year doubling path 


 and establishes an Advanced Research Projects Agency for 


 Energy, or ARPA-E.



 ARPA-E will address long-term and high-risk technological 


 barriers in energy through collaborative research and 


 development that private industry or the DOE are not likely 


 to undertake alone. Because of its autonomy within DOE, and 


 the flexibility and resources afforded to its technical 


 personnel, ARPA-E is structured to respond very quickly to 


 energy research challenges, as well as terminate or 


 restructure programs just as quickly. A fund is established 


 in the U.S. Treasury separate and distinct from DOE 


 appropriations, as will be the budget request for ARPA-E. 


 With this separate fund, ARPA-E will be independent of the 


 DOE bureaucracy, and likewise should not operate at the 


 expense of other programs at DOE, particularly the Office of 


 Science. The conference agreement authorizes $300,000,000 in 


 FY 2008, and such sums as are necessary thereafter for fiscal 


 years 2009 and 2010.



 As the nation's largest supporter of the physical sciences, 


 the DOE Office of Science funds basic research and world-


 class facilities that play an integral role in the effort to 


 maintain the technological competitiveness of the U.S. The 


 conference agreement contains an authorization for the Office 


 of Science which extends the 7 year doubling track prescribed 


 in Energy Policy Act of 2005 by authorizing Fiscal Year 2010 


 at a funding level of $5.8 billion.



 The conference agreement provides $150 million for K-12 


 science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) 


 education programs that capitalize on the unique scientific 


 and engineering resources of the national laboratories. These 


 programs include a pilot program of grants to states to help 


 establish or expand statewide specialty high schools in STEM 


 education; a program to provide internship opportunities for 


 middle and high-school students at the national labs, with 


 priority given to students from high-needs schools; a program 


 at each national lab to help establish a Center of Excellence 


 in STEM education in at least one high-need public secondary 


 school in each lab region in order to develop and disseminate 


 best practices in STEM education; and




 a program to establish or expand summer institutes at the 


 national labs and partner universities in order to improve 


 the STEM content knowledge of K-12 teachers throughout the 


 country.



 All of these programs would be coordinated by a newly 


 appointed Director for STEM Education at the Department, who 


 would also serve as an interagency liaison for K-12 STEM 


 education. In keeping with ongoing efforts to improve 


 coordination and evaluation of K-12 STEM education programs 


 across the federal government, all of the programs authorized 


 in this conference agreement require evaluation and reporting 


 of program impact.



 In addition, the conference agreement highlights the 


 critical role of young investigators working in areas 


 relevant to the mission of DOE by establishing an early 


 career grant program for scientists at both universities and 


 the national labs; and a graduate research fellowship program 


 for outstanding graduate students in these fields. The 


 agreement also brings attention to research and education 


 needs in the nuclear sciences and hydrocarbon systems 


 sciences by establishing programs of grants to Universities 


 to establish or expand degree programs in these areas.



 Finally, the conference agreement helps DOE recruit 


 distinguished scientists to the national labs and foster 


 collaboration between universities and the labs by providing 


 competitive grants to support joint appointments between the 


 two.











 TITLE VI--Department of Education




 To enhance teacher education in the STEM fields and 


 critical foreign languages, the conference agreement 


 authorizes two new competitive grant programs. The programs 


 will specifically enable partnerships to implement courses of 


 study in STEM fields and critical foreign language that lead 


 to a baccalaureate degree with concurrent teacher 


 certification and at the graduate level the conference 


 agreement implements 2- or 3-year part-time master's degree 


 programs in these areas for current teachers to improve their 


 content knowledge and pedagogical skills. The conference bill 


 authorizes $151,200,000 for the baccalaureate degree program 


 and $125,000,000 for the master's degree program for fiscal 


 year 2008 and the two succeeding fiscal years.



 The conference agreement authorizes competitive grants to 


 increase the number of highly qualified teachers serving 


 high-need schools and expand access to AP and IB classes; as 


 well as authorize the Secretary of Education to contract with 


 the National Academy of Sciences to convene a national panel 


 within a year after the enactment of this Act to identify 


 promising practices in the teaching of science, technology, 


 engineering and mathematics in elementary and secondary 


 schools. It also authorizes appropriations of $65,000,000 for 


 fiscal year 2008 and such sums as may be necessary for each 


 of the two succeeding fiscal years.



 The conference agreement authorizes new grant programs to 


 enhance math education in elementary and middle school 


 mathematics and provides grants to support the following 


 activities to assist states to implement programs for 


 secondary schools and in addition to other best practices and 


 in-service training, the bill provides targeted help to low-


 income students who are struggling with mathematics. The 


 conference agreement also authorizes a competitive grant 


 program to increase the number of students studying critical 


 foreign languages, starting in elementary school and 


 continuing through postsecondary education programs.



 The Secretary of Education is authorized to award 


 competitive grants to states to promote better alignment of 


 elementary and secondary education with the knowledge and 


 skills needed to succeed in academic credit-bearing 


 coursework in institutions of higher education, in the 21st 


 century workforce and in the Armed Forces. The Secretary is 


 also authorized to award grants of $50,000 to three 


 elementary and three secondary schools, with a high 


 concentration of low-income students in each state, whose 


 students demonstrate the largest improvement in mathematics 


 and science.










 TITLE VII--National Science Foundation




 The conference agreement provides $22 billion to the 


 National Science Foundation (NSF) over fiscal years 2008-


 2010, putting it on a path to double in approximately 7 


 years. Particularly strong increases are provided in fiscal 


 year 2008 for K-12 STEM education programs at NSF. These 


 programs, including the Noyce Teacher Scholarship program and 


 the Math and Science Partnerships program will help to 


 prepare thousands of new STEM teachers and provide current 


 teachers with content and pedagogical expertise in their area 


 of teaching.



 In addition to providing increased support for programs 


 that address the earliest stages of the STEM workforce 


 pipeline, the conference report will help create thousands of 


 new STEM college grduates, including 2-year college 


 graduates, through increased support for the STEM talent 


 expansion (STEP) program and the Advanced Technological 


 Education (ATE) program.



 For those STEM graduates who continue on the path toward 


 academic careers, the conferece agreement provides critical 


 support for young, innovative researchers by expanding the 


 graduate research fellowships (GRF) and integrative graduate 


 education and research traineeship (IGERT) programs, 


 strengthening the early career grants (CAREER) program, and 


 creating a new pilot program of seed grants for outstanding 


 new investigators. Such programs have an additional benefit 


 of helping to stimulate high-risk, high-reward research by 


 identifying and taking a chance on the best and brightest 


 young minds.



 Finally, the conference agreement includes provisions 


 throughout the bill to help broaden participation in STEM 


 fields at all levels, from kindergarten students through 


 academic researchers. These include several programs of 


 outreach and mentoring for women and minorities, a request 


 for a National Academy of Sciences report to identify 


 barriers to and opportunities for increasing the number of 


 underrepresented minorities in STEM fields, and an emphasis 


 on inclusion of students and teachers from high-needs 


 schools.