---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `e80bad374d1127045a0f411eb084d8ca`
`Mr. INOUYE — 24 September 2009`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, today the Senate will begin consideration 
of the bill making appropriations for the Department of Defense for 
fiscal year 2010. On behalf of the committee, Vice Chairman Cochran and 
I are recommending funding which totals $636.3 billion for the 
discretionary programs under the Defense Subcommittee's jurisdiction.

This amount is $3.9 billion below the amount requested but is the 
same as the subcommittee's allocation.

Of this amount $128.2 billion is funding to sustain our overseas 
contingency operations, primarily in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I applaud Secretary Gates and the administration for putting forward 
a budget request which covers the operations both for the normal cost 
of running our national security programs and for the ongoing wartime 
needs.

The proposed funding in this measure protects the priorities of our 
military and civilian leaders; it supports our men and women in 
uniform, and provides the funding needed for critical acquisition 
programs.

There has been much discussion this year about proposals by the 
administration to cut funding for ''unneeded'' weapons programs. Vice 
Chairman Cochran and I have reviewed each of the proposals by the 
administration.


While we are not in complete agreement with the judgment of 
administration officials, we have generally concurred with the 
recommendations of our current leaders.

I would like to remind the Members of the Senate that the Defense 
Department has been wrong on several occasions in recommending program 
terminations. Luckily the Congress has not always agreed with such 
proposals.

Let me give three examples, although we could spend all day relaying 
examples of mistakes by previous administrations.

First, the F-117 Stealth fighter. After producing only one squadron 
of F-117s the Air Force wanted to terminate the program which some in 
the Defense Department saw as a threat to the F-15E.

Congress continued to add funding for the program until two squadrons 
had been completely filled out.

Without the additional aircraft provided by the Congress, the Defense 
Department would have been woefully short of Stealth aircraft in 
conducting operations in Desert Storm and Bosnia.

Second, the first Bush administration fought very hard to kill the V-
22 which today the Marine Corps considers one of its greatest assets.

Finally, I would remind my colleagues that shortly before Desert 
Shield-Desert Storm some in the Pentagon wanted to eliminate the 
Central Command. The view at the time was that we probably wouldn't 
need to focus much attention on South West Asia. This clearly 
demonstrates that our ability to predict hot spots and future threats 
is not perfect.

As we go forward today--killing the F-22, the VH-71 Presidential 
helicopter, the Combat Search and Rescue helicopter, the Kinetic Energy 
Interceptor, we do so with the hope that today's military and civilian 
leaders are better able to predict the future than some of their 
predecessors were.

The recommendations before the Senate provide our best judgment on 
the needs of our Nation for national security.

We have not provided funding for the closure of Guantanamo because 
the administration has yet to produce a credible plan. Instead we have 
included language which for all practical purposes is the same as was 
adopted by the Senate earlier this year.

We have adjusted funding for the littoral combat ship because the 
administration did not request sufficient funding to produce the 
quantity it requested.

On that subject, I must report that the administration has recently 
announced that it will only procure two LCS ships this year, which is 
the number that our committee has funded.

We have reapplied savings cut from unjustified amounts requested in 
the budget to programs that are better suited for funding.

For example, we have reduced amounts requested for Afghanistan 
security forces which the administration has informed the committee 
cannot be spent in the coming year and transferred that amount to cover 
a shortfall in the critically needed MRAP program.

While we strongly concur with the administration that increased 
funding is required to train and equip our Afghan army and police 
forces, the amount that we recommend is nearly $1 billion more than was 
provided for fiscal year 2009.

Moreover, my colleagues should be advised that the Defense Department 
has not yet spent nearly $2 billion of the funds that are currently 
available for this program as we near the end of this fiscal year.

Notwithstanding the critical importance of funding for the Afghan 
security forces, it simply makes no sense to provide more funding than 
can be spent for this program when other shortfalls exist.

Along with our staffs we spend countless hours reviewing the programs 
and funding requests proposed by the administration. As you all know 
the defense budget is huge and it is extremely complex. There are 
thousands of acquisition and operations programs. In most cases the 
specific amounts requested for each of these programs was proposed by 
the military services more than a year ago.

During the intervening period many changes occur. It is not unusual 
for a program to be delayed or even terminated while a request is 
pending before the Congress.

As such, it is up to the subcommittee to make the necessary 
adjustments based on the latest information to ensure that the Nation 
is afforded the best use of the funds provided in this measure.

In so doing, we are recommending several program increases in this 
bill.

For example, we are recommending adding $1.5 billion to provide for 
essential equipment for our National Guard and Reserve Forces.

We have also added funding to sustain our near term missile defense 
programs--like the AEGIS standard missile, THAAD radars, and ground 
based interceptors for testing.

We are recommending $1.7 billion to purchase an additional DDG-51 
Destroyer to put that restarted program on a more efficient and 
economical production schedule.

And we have added $2.5 billion to sustain production of the C-17 
program for one additional year. The administration has recently been 
provided with authority to retire the aging, hard to maintain, and 
often broken C-5A force.

We expect that in re-examining its airlift fleet the Defense 
Department will eventually conclude that purchasing additional C-17s 
and maintaining the strategic asset of a hot airlift production line is 
the right solution.

On the question of earmarks, as we described earlier this year, the 
committee has reduced the amount recommended for earmarks by $300 
million or 10 percent from last year's recommendation.

In numbers, the committee has reduced the number of earmarks by 
nearly 200 fewer projects. We recognize that most members of the Senate 
will receive less than last year. we hope that our colleagues can 
support this package with its streamlined approach to earmarking.

Collectively, we believe the recommendations in this bill will 
provide for our Nation's defense and is far superior to the budget 
request submitted by the administration. Having had the time to review 
the suggestions of the administration carefully has afforded the 
subcommittee the opportunity to produce a better bill. I hope that all 
my colleagues can support the bill which was approved unanimously by 
the committee.