---
---

# None
## `e82338684d3d839ed00d8e313075313b`
`Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky — 26 September 2008`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor my good 
friend Terry Everett, whom I have had the distinct pleasure of serving 
with in this House for nearly 2 decades. After 16 years of diligently 
representing the people of the second district of Alabama, he will be 
retiring when the 110th Congress adjourns. I want to take this 
opportunity to wish him well and thank him for his friendship and 
dedication to the American people.

Terry is a man who knows the meaning of hard work. His father was a 
sharecropper and worked on the railroad, instilling a strong work ethic 
with Terry and his siblings at an early age. Terry never forgot those 
lessons, and served his country with honor as an Air Force intelligence 
specialist in Europe before returning home to Dothan, Alabama, in 1959. 
He joined the staff of the Dothan Eagle as a beat reporter, and for 30 
years climbed the corporate ladder with determination, working his way 
up to editor and publisher, and finally as the owner of his own 
newspaper chain. He has brought the same dedication and work-horse 
attitude to the House of Representatives.

In his service in the House, Terry has devoted himself to ensuring 
that the United States remains safe and secure for our children and 
grandchildren from the growing threat of international terrorists and 
rogue states. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, he has 
led the way for the United States to be on the cutting edge of military 
technology by pressing for advances in our Missile Defense System and 
in space technology, which is vital not only to our security at home, 
but also for our brave soldiers serving on the battlefields of Iraq and 
Afghanistan. His efforts have helped keep our Nation safe and strong in 
a time when threats to our security are quickly changing and adapting.

Madam Speaker, it has been an honor to have served with Terry Everett 
in this great body. I want to wish him and his family well as he 
embarks on the next chapter of his life. I know the people of Alabama, 
like me, are proud to know him.
