---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e83b41ef34acfd028caaa787187d7525`
`Mr. McINTYRE — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. McINTYRE. Madam Speaker, I rise tonight in support of the 
resolution before us that disapproves of the President's recent 
announcement to deploy more than 20,000 additional U.S. combat troops 
to Iraq.

As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I am committed to 
supporting our troops and making sure that they have the resources they 
need. I always have and I always will. There is no debate about 
supporting our troops. This resolution clearly and unequivocally states 
that both the Congress and the American people support our valiant men 
and women in uniform. Our troops have been and are continuing to do an 
excellent job, and they deserve our support.

Yet, overall, our military is being stretched thin, and now we face 
the prospect of not only sending over 20,000 more combat troops into 
Iraq, but also another 15,000 troops on top of that, at minimum, to 
support those troops, with additional military police, intelligence 
units and supply function personnel. In fact, the Congressional Budget 
Office estimates that it might take even more troops than that. So 
reality is that we are now looking at a total of 35,000 or more troops 
actually involved in this potential surge.

We need to be moving toward a successful conclusion in Iraq; not with 
a timetable, but with definite benchmarks of accountability that are 
meant to ensure that the Iraqis are taking control of their own 
security and future. The Iraqi army, the national police and the local 
police in Iraq must take responsibility for their own country and 
communities, and only by lessening the American footprint in Iraq will 
we empower the Iraqi people to take responsibility for their own self-
governance and ultimately their own destiny.

Is not just my opinion or the opinion of some here, it is exactly 
what General John Abizaid, our U.S. Commander said, when I visited Iraq 
and when he testified before Congress.

We cannot continue to increase troop levels in Iraq at the expense of 
allowing the Taliban to come back into power in Afghanistan. The Global 
War on Terrorism is exactly what the name says. It is a global war, not 
just an Iraqi war, and we cannot let our troop strength be so focused 
on what is becoming a civil war in Iraq that we lose focus on threats 
that face us elsewhere in the world.

Previous surges have not solved the problems in Iraq. Let us not be 
fooled into thinking that this one will.