---
---

# MOTION TO GO TO CONFERENCE ON H.R. 3043, DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH  AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `e857eac670779aaaa21c2f4c8838e45b`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. I thank the chairman.

Mr. Speaker, I must say I am hearing some conflicting priorities on 
the floor today. We have heard that the appropriations process is not 
moving fast enough, despite the fact that under the leadership of 
Chairman Obey in the House, we passed every single one of our 
appropriations bills, I believe in record time. We are hearing that the 
appropriations process isn't moving fast enough on the one hand, and 
now we have a motion to instruct the conferees to actually slow it 
down, to take pieces out of this bill, to stop it. You can't have it 
both ways. We are trying to get things done. We are trying to move our 
priorities forward.

Now, I understand that some of my friends don't want to deal with the 
labor, health and human services aspects of this bill, and they are 
concerned with the President's argument that we have plenty of money to 
fund Iraq but can't afford veterans health care here at home and 
educational priorities here at home and low-income heating for the 
elderly here at home.

I understand those arguments, but let me suggest to my colleagues 
that they read a study that was just released yesterday by Harvard 
Medical School. That study shows there is, in fact, a critical 
connection between the VA pieces of this bill and the health and human 
services aspects of this bill. The two should be considered together. 
That study found that, today, there are 2 million veterans who have no 
health insurance. And they aren't eligible for


VA benefits. Not eligible for VA benefits and too poor to afford health 
insurance. The number of uninsured veterans jumped to 1.8 million in 
2004, and the population of uninsured veterans is increasing at twice 
the rate of the general population.

Now, the Labor-H aspects of this bill provides $1.4 billion above the 
President's request for programs to improve health care access. So 
taken in its totality, this bill, without segregating the human 
services components, taken in its totality, this bill protects our 
troops in the field and also provides access to veterans at home who 
may not qualify for veterans benefits. As has been stated before, our 
veterans are a whole. They come back from the war, the last thing they 
should worry about is not having health insurance. It's the labor, 
health and human services aspects of this bill that could provide 
additional access to health care, and that is why this bill ought to be 
considered as it is.

I would make one other point. We have already considered these bills 
separately. Each of these components were, in fact, debated, 
deliberated and passed with overwhelming bipartisan support in the 
Appropriations Committee and then debated again, deliberated again and 
passed with significant Republican support on the floor of the House.

There is no reason to move backwards. There is no reason to delay. 
There is no reason to stop this process. We want to get these bills to 
the President. We should do so.