---
---

# None
## `e8599824d78f5b3b607b9c3ba1913b20`
`Mr. FILNER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, we are about to take up a package of seven bills that 
have come to the floor from the Veterans Committee, a committee which I 
am very proud of that has worked together over the first 4 or 5 months 
of this session to keep our contract with our Nation's veterans. And 
there is no better time than just before Memorial Day to say thank you. 
Memorial Day celebrates those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for 
our Nation's freedom. We are here on the floor today to say thank you 
to those, and to those who are still deployed, and to veterans from 
past wars.

In the recent election, Mr. Speaker, the Democrats promised to do 
more for our Nation's veterans. We said we had a President who was 
saying, support the troops, support the troops, support the troops; but 
when they came home, where was that support? Walter Reed ripped off the 
veil of our incompetency of dealing with veterans and showed that so 
many were not getting the care they were promised and people thought 
they were getting.

We have had story after story in the Nation's press about how 
returning veterans with PTSD or brain injury have not been getting the 
care which this Nation has promised at the highest quality medical 
system in the world. So we have to do better.

We have a system that is really about to break and collapse. What we 
saw as the majority party is that the first thing that had to be done 
was give the VA the resources to carry out the job; secondly, we had to 
have accountability for the spending of those resources.

Well, in the first three spending bills that went through this House, 
we were able to add $13 billion for the health care of our veterans. 
That is an unprecedented increase from one year to the next, an 
increase of 30 percent in the health care budget.

We have put in the resources to clean up the backlog of claims for 
disability pensions that have built up to 600,000. We have put in the 
money to open up new Centers of Excellence for traumatic brain injury, 
to finally give the mental health care that the tens of thousands of 
veterans who are coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan need.

We call it PTSD, post-traumatic stress disorder, but virtually every 
soldier subject to at least five blasts that would give them brain 
injury, seeing their buddies shot and killed in front of them, maybe 
having to kill even by accident some innocent people in Iraq, they come 
back with tremendous mental issues. They have to be worked out. They 
need medical care, and too many have been falling through the cracks.

So we have said we will provide the resources to make sure that does 
not occur. We have provided the resources to meet these needs. Now we 
have to have accountability for their spending. The Veterans' Affairs 
Committee of this Congress has pledged to do that.

So we have a collection of bills on the floor this afternoon to say 
thank you to our Nation's veterans, thank you for your efforts in this 
war, thank you for your efforts in past wars, and we honor those who 
gave the ultimate sacrifice on Memorial Day.

This resolution before us now, H. Res. 392, comes to us under the 
leadership of the gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Lamborn), and I thank 
him for his activity on the Veterans' Affairs Committee. This 
resolution encourages people to visit the cemeteries, memorials, and 
markers overseen by the American Battle Monuments Commission. I am sure 
many people who hear this say, what is the American Battle Monuments 
Commission?

In 1923, Congress created the Battle Monuments Commission to control 
the construction of military cemeteries, monuments and markers erected 
to honor American servicemembers killed on foreign soil. Host countries 
provide the necessary lands for these sites to the United States in 
perpetuity and free of charge.

The Commission cares for 24 military cemeteries and 25 memorials, 
monuments and markers in 15 nations around the world. These sites serve 
as the final resting places for almost 125,000 Americans who fought in 
the Mexican-American War through World War I and II. The Commission 
takes special care that all cemeteries under its supervision are 
maintained to the highest standard attainable.

The Battle Monuments Commission extends an open invitation to all to 
visit these splendid shrines and go beyond the most well known, like 
Normandy, and venture into others. Each site has its own sense of 
history, sacrifice and beauty; each offers a different and unique 
experience. No two have the same garden or architecture. Perhaps only 
the spiritual qualities are similar.

In less than a month from now, on June 6, the Battle Monuments 
Commission will commemorate the 63rd anniversary of the D-Day landing 
by opening a new Normandy American Cemetery Visitor Center. Under 
construction since 2002, the center will tell the story of the American 
servicemembers memorialized at Normandy.

I encourage everyone to visit this new D-Day center and any of the 
other sites under the jurisdiction of the Commission.

Overseas American cemeteries are lasting reminders of America's 
willingness to come to the defense of others. These tangible symbols of 
American values endure long after the fighting is over.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Lamborn for bringing this resolution to us.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.