# None
## `e85974e9b5ba018fdc34f9c0c7ea6851`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. If the gentleman would yield, I thank my friend from 
Florida for yielding, because as to the very point you just raised, 
until March 27, 2003, former Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz 
said this. You were talking about Iraq paying for its own 
reconstruction and the costs attendant to this war, which is running us 
anywhere between $2.5 and $3 billion a week, which we could use in any 
myriad of ways.

He said back on that date, ''There is a lot of money to pay for this 
that doesn't have to be U.S. taxpayer money, and it starts with the 
assets of the Iraqi people. We are dealing with a country that can 
really finance its own reconstruction, and relatively soon.'' And Don 
Rumsfeld said that ''relatively soon'' could be 6 days, 6 weeks, he 
doubted 6 months.

Well, we have been there now more than 5 years, longer than it took 
for us to win World War II. And what we have, and I would like to point 
out the chart that is next to me, is we have a problem that has been 
created by the Bush administration, and Senator McCain would like to 
perpetuate.

So we have the Bush-McCain policies, the Bush-McCain policies being 
let's stay in Iraq. They don't have to pay for anything. Senator McCain 
said it might have to be 100 years. And at the same time, cutting our 
revenues to this government, so we run up the highest deficits on 
record. Under Ronald Reagan, under the first George Bush, we had big 
deficits, a surplus under Bill Clinton and the fiscal policies of the 
Democrats, and then a gigantic deficit under George Bush II.

What we need, ladies and gentlemen, what I say to my friends, both 
the Democrats and to the Republicans, is we have to have a change. We 
cannot have these same old, tired policies. If we have the same old, 
tired policies with respect to our foreign affairs, such as we are not 
going to charge the Iraqis for their reconstruction or we are never 
going to let them take their own destiny into their hands, we are going 
to have these same old costs and same old losses of life to Americans 
who have been in Iraq now for more than 5 years.

If we have the same old economic policies, which is what Senator 
McCain would like to have, it is just more Bush-McCain policies. We are 
going to run the deficit to levels we have never seen before, which 
then have resulted in foreclosures and a whole variety of things, 
foreclosures, job losses, et cetera.

We have to have a change. That change will come in this election on 
November 4th. We started this change in 2006 with the election of a 
Democratic Congress. We have been able to provide minimum wage 
increases to people. We have changed, for instance, the cost of student 
loans, so that more people can take advantage of our higher education 
system. Democrats took on the pharmaceuticals, so that more people can 
have lower priced pharmaceuticals. We have increased veterans benefits 
more in the last year than at any other time in the 70-plus year 
history of the Veterans Administration. This has happened under 
Democrats.

It is not the same old, failed policies that the Bush administration 
has had for the last 8 years or that the McCain campaign wants to 
perpetuate. We need a change, and that change will come with the 
election of a new President, and that President is going to be Senator 
Barack Obama, and it is going to continue by the Democrats maintaining 
a majority in this House. We cannot have more of the same.

There is real opportunity out there for this country. And we heard a 
little bit today from the Republicans about drill here, drill now. They 
want to go with the same old, tired energy policy, which just is only 
oil and gas and just drilling here and drilling now. I don't know 
exactly what they mean by drill here and drill now.

We had a very interesting story about an ethics scandal within the 
Interior Department, where some members of the Bush administration's 
Interior Department, who are supposed to be the watchdogs over the oil 
and gas companies who are supposed to pay royalties to this country for 
all of the minerals that they extract from the country. It said, 
''Investigators from the Interior Department's Inspector General's 
Office,'' this is in the Washington Post today, it said, ''More than a 
dozen employees, including the former director of the Oil Royalty 
Program, accepted gifts, including ski trips, sports tickets and golf 
outings.'' The report alleges that the former director netted more than 
$30,000.

There was also the fact, they said, ''the government officials 
accepted lavish gifts, steered contracts to favored firms, and engaged 
in illicit sex with employees of the oil companies, Federal 
investigators reported today.''

So that is the same old thing. We are so hooked on just one 
commodity, which is oil, which obviously is going to be part of our 
energy package no matter what. We are going to drill. We are drilling. 
We are trying to extract this. But we have to have a comprehensive 
energy plan, which is what the Democrats are proposing and we will 
propose within the next couple of


weeks, which includes renewable energy, it includes coal, it includes 
energy efficiency.

Those are the kinds of things that will provide thousands and 
thousands and thousands of jobs in Colorado and in the manufacturing 
areas of Ohio. That is the kind of forward looking, innovative approach 
that we have to take. That is what Barack Obama is going to do. We are 
not going to have the same old, tired policies exemplified by the Bush 
administration that John McCain wants to keep going.