---
---

# AMERICAN HOUSING RESCUE AND FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008
## `e85ad9df81cab7677abc3d2936414aea`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 25 June 2008`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I strongly oppose H.R. 6304, the FISA 
Amendments Act of 2008. I will vote against cloture on the motion to 
proceed. This legislation has been billed as a compromise between 
Republicans and Democrats. We are asked to support it because it is 
supposedly a reasonable accommodation of opposing views.

Let me respond to that as clearly as possible. This bill is not a 
compromise; it is a capitulation. This bill will effectively and 
unjustifiably grant immunity to companies that allegedly participated 
in an illegal wiretapping program, a program that more than 70 Members 
of this body still know virtually nothing about. This bill will


grant the Bush administration, the same administration that developed 
and operated this illegal program for more than 5 years, expansive new 
authorities to spy on Americans' international communications.

If you don't believe me, here is what Senator Bond had to say about 
the bill:


I think the White House got a better deal than even they had hoped to 
get.


House minority whip Roy Blunt said:




 The lawsuits will be dismissed.


There is simply no question that Democrats who had previously stood 
strong against immunity and in support of civil liberties were on the 
losing end of this backroom deal.

The railroading of Congress began last summer when the administration 
rammed through the so-called Protect America Act, or PAA, vastly 
expanding the Government's ability to eavesdrop without a court-
approved warrant. That legislation was rushed through this Chamber in a 
climate of fear--fear of terrorist attacks and fear of not appearing 
sufficiently strong on national security. There was very little 
understanding of what the legislation actually did. But the silver 
lining was that the law did have a 6-month sunset. So Congress quickly 
started working to fix the legislation. The House passed a bill last 
fall. The Senate passed its bill, one that I believed was deeply 
flawed, in February.

As the PAA 6-month sunset approached in late February, the House 
faced enormous political pressure simply to pass the Senate bill before 
the sunset date, but the reality was that no orders under the PAA were 
actually going to expire in February. Fortunately, to their great 
credit, the House stood firm in its resolve not to pass the Senate bill 
with its unjustified immunity provisions. The House deserves enormous 
credit for not buckling in the face of the President's attempts to 
intimidate them. Ultimately, the House passed new legislation in March, 
setting up the negotiations that have led us here today.

I think it is safe to say that even many who voted for the Protect 
America Act last year came to believe it was a mistake to pass that 
legislation. While the House deserves credit for refusing to pass the 
Senate bill in February and for securing the changes in this new bill, 
the bill is still a very serious mistake.

The immunity provision is a key reason for that. It is a key reason 
for my opposition to the legislation and for that of so many of my 
colleagues and, frankly, so many Americans. No one should be fooled 
about the effect of this bill. Under its terms the companies that 
allegedly participated in the illegal wiretapping program will walk 
away from these lawsuits with immunity. They will get immunity. There 
is simply no question about it. Anyone who says this bill preserves a 
meaningful role for the courts to play in deciding these cases is just 
wrong.

I am a little concerned that the focus on immunity has diverted 
attention away from the other very important issues at stake in this 
legislation. In the long run, I don't believe this bill will be 
actually remembered as the immunity bill. I think this bill is going to 
be remembered as the legislation in which Congress granted the 
executive branch the power to sweep up all of our international 
communications with very few controls or oversight.

Here I am talking about title I of the bill, the title that makes 
substantive changes to the FISA statute. I would like to explain why I 
am so concerned about the new surveillance powers granted in this part 
of the bill, and why the modest improvements made to this part of the 
bill don't even come close to being sufficient.

This bill has been sold to us as necessary to ensure that the 
Government can collect communications between persons overseas without 
a warrant and to ensure that the Government can collect the 
communications of terrorists, including their communications with 
people in the United States. No one disagrees that the Government 
should have this authority. But the bill goes much further, authorizing 
widespread surveillance involving innocent Americans at home and 
abroad.

First, the FISA Amendments Act, like the Protect America Act, will 
authorize the Government to collect all communications between the 
United States and the rest of the world.

That could mean millions upon millions of communications between 
innocent Americans and their friends, families, or business associates 
overseas could legally be collected. Parents calling their kids 
studying abroad, e-mails to friends '' serving in Iraq--all of these 
communications could be collected, with absolutely no suspicion of any 
wrongdoing, under this legislation. In fact, the DNI even testified 
that this type of ''bulk collection'' would be ''desirable.''

The bill's supporters like to say that the Government needs 
additional powers to target terrorists overseas. But under this bill, 
the Government is not limited to targeting foreigners outside the 
United States who are terrorists, or who are suspected of some 
wrongdoing, or who are members or agents of some foreign government or 
organization. In fact, the Government does not even need a specific 
purpose for wiretapping anyone overseas. All it needs to have is a 
general ''foreign intelligence'' purpose, which is a standard so broad 
that it basically covers all international communications.

That is not just my opinion. The DNI has testified that, under the 
PAA, and presumably this bill, the Government could legally collect all 
communications between the United States and overseas. Let me repeat 
that. Under this bill, the Government can legally collect all 
communications--every last one--between Americans here at home at home 
and the rest of the world.

I should note that one of the few bright spots in this bill is the 
inclusion of a provision from the Senate bill to prohibit the 
intentional targeting of an American overseas without a warrant. That 
is an important new protection. But that amendment does not prevent the 
indiscriminate vacuuming up of all international communications, which 
would allow the Government to collect the communications of Americans 
overseas, including with friends and family back home, without a 
warrant.

I tried to address this issue of ''bulk collection'' several times, 
working in the Intelligence Committee, the Judiciary Committee, and 
ultimately on the Senate floor in February, when I offered an amendment 
that would have required that there be some foreign intelligence 
purpose for the collection of communications to or from particular 
targets. The vast majority of Democrats supported this effort, but, 
unfortunately, it was defeated. So the bill today we are considering 
does not address this serious problem.

Second, like the earlier Senate version, this bill fails to 
effectively prohibit the practice of reverse targeting and this is; 
namely, wiretapping a person overseas when what the Government is 
really interested in is listening to an American here at home with whom 
the foreigner is communicating. The bill does have a provision that 
purports to address this issue. The bill prohibits intentionally 
targeting a person outside the United States without an individualized 
court order if ''the purpose'' is to target someone reasonably believed 
to be in the United States. But this language would permit intentional 
and possibly unconstitutional warrantless surveillance of an American 
so long as the Government has any interest in the person overseas with 
whom the American is communicating. And, if there was any doubt, the 
DNI has publicly said that the Senate bill--which contained identical 
language as the current bill--merely ''codifies'' the administration's 
position, which is that the Government can wiretap a person overseas 
indefinitely without a warrant, no matter how interested it may really 
be in the American with whom that person overseas is communicating.

Supporters of this bill also will argue that it requires the 
executive branch to establish guidelines for implementing this new 
reverse targeting requirement. But the guidelines are not subject to 
any judicial review. And requiring guidelines to implement an 
ineffective limitation is not a particularly comforting safeguard.

When the Senate considered the FISA bill earlier this year, I offered 
an amendment--one that had actually been approved by the Senate 
Judiciary Committee--to make this prohibition on reverse targeting 
meaningful. My amendment, which again had the support of the vast 
majority of the Democratic caucus and was included in the bill passed 
by the House in March,


would have required the Government to obtain a court order whenever a 
significant purpose of the surveillance is actually to acquire the 
communications of an American in the United States. This would have 
done a far better job of protecting the privacy of the international 
communications of innocent Americans. Unfortunately, it is not in this 
bill.

Third, the bill before us imposes no meaningful consequences if the 
Government initiates surveillance using procedures that have not been 
approved by the FISA Court, and the FISA Court later finds that those 
procedures were unlawful. Say, for example, that the FISA Court 
determines that the procedures were not even reasonably designed to 
wiretap foreigners rather than Americans. Under the bill, all of that 
illegally obtained information on Americans can be retained and used 
anyway. Once again, there are no consequences for illegal behavior.

Now, unlike the Senate bill, this new bill does generally provide for 
FISA Court review of surveillance procedures before surveillance 
begins. But it also says that if the Attorney General and the DNI 
certify that they don't have time to get a court order and that 
intelligence important to national security may be lost or not timely 
acquired, then they can go forward without this judicial approval. This 
is a far cry from allowing an exception to FISA Court review in a true 
emergency because arguably all intelligence is important to national 
security and any delay at all might cause some intelligence to be lost. 
So I am really concerned that this so-called exigency exception could 
very well swallow the rule and undermine any presumption of prior 
judicial approval.

But whether the exception is applied broadly or narrowly, if the 
Government invokes it and ultimately engages in illegal surveillance, 
the court should be given at least some flexibility after the fact to 
determine whether the government should be allowed to keep the results 
of illegal surveillance if it involves Americans. That is what another 
one of my amendments on the Senate floor would have done, an amendment 
that actually garnered 40 votes. Yet this issue goes completely 
unaddressed in the so-called compromise.

Fourth, this bill doesn't protect the privacy of Americans whose 
communications will be collected in vast new quantities. The 
administration's mantra has been: Don't worry, we have minimization 
procedures. Minimization procedures are nothing more than unchecked 
executive branch decisions about what information on Americans 
constitutes ''foreign intelligence.'' As recently declassified 
documents have again confirmed, the ability of Government officials to 
find out the identity of Americans and use that information is 
extremely broad. Moreover, even if the administration were correct that 
minimization procedures have worked in the past, they are certainly 
inadequate as a check against the vast amounts of Americans' private 
information that could be collected under this bill. That is why on the 
Senate floor joined with my colleagues, Senator Webb and Senator 
Tester, to offer an amendment to provide real protections for the 
privacy of Americans, j while also giving the Government the 
flexibility it needs to wiretap terrorists overseas. But this bill, 
like the Senate bill, relies solely on these inadequate minimization 
procedures.

The broad surveillance powers involving international communications 
that are contained in this legislation are particularly troubling 
because we live in a world in which international communications are 
increasingly commonplace. Thirty years ago it was very expensive, and 
not very common, for most Americans to make an overseas call. Now, 
particularly with e-mail, such communications happen all the time. 
Millions of ordinary, and innocent, Americans communicate with people 
overseas for entirely legitimate personal and business reasons. Parents 
or children call family members overseas. Students e-mail friends they 
have met while studying abroad. Business people communicate with 
colleagues or clients overseas. Technological advancements combined 
with the ever more interconnected world economy have led to an 
explosion of international contacts.

Supporters of the bill like to say that we just have to bring FISA up 
to date with new technology. But changes in technology should also 
cause us to take a close look at the need for greater protections of 
the privacy of our citizens. If we are going to give the Government 
broad new powers that will lead to the collection of much more 
information on innocent Americans, we have a duty to protect their 
privacy as much as we possibly can. And we can do that without 
sacrificing our ability to collect information that will help us 
protect our national security. This supposed compromise, unfortunately, 
fails that test.

I don't mean to suggest that this bill does not contain some 
improvements over the bill that the Senate passed early this year. 
Clearly it does, and I appreciate that. Certainly, it is a good thing 
that this bill includes language making clear, once and for all, that 
Congress considers FISA and the criminal wiretap laws to be the 
exclusive means by which electronic surveillance can be conducted in 
this country--a provision that Senator Feinstein fought so hard for. 
And it is a good thing that Congress is directing the relevant 
inspectors general to do a comprehensive report on the President's 
illegal wiretapping program--a report whose contents I hope will be 
made public to the greatest degree possible. And it is a good thing 
that the bill no longer redefines the critical FISA term ''electronic 
surveillance,'' which could have led to a lot of confusion and 
unintended consequences.

All of those provisions are positive developments, and I am glad that 
the ultimate product seemingly destined to become law contains these 
improvements.

But I just can't pretend somehow that these improvements are enough. 
They are nowhere close. When I offered my amendments on the Senate 
floor in February, the vast majority of the Democratic caucus supported 
me. While I did not have the votes to pass those amendments, I am 
confident that more and more Members of Congress will agree that 
changes to this legislation need to be made. If we can't make them this 
year, then Congress must return to this issue--and it must do so as 
soon as the new President takes office. These issues are far too 
important to wait until the sunset date, especially now that it is set 
in this bill for 2012, another presidential election year.

But let me now turn to the grant of retroactive immunity that is 
contained in this bill because on that issue there is no question that 
any differences between this bill and the Senate bill are only 
cosmetic. Make no mistake: This bill will result in immunity.

Under the terms of this bill, a Federal district court would evaluate 
whether there is substantial evidence that a company received ''a 
written request or directive . . . from the Attorney General or the 
head of an element of the intelligence community . . . indicating that 
the activity was authorized by the President and determined to be 
lawful.''

But we already know from Senate Select Committee on Intelligence's 
committee report last fall that the companies received exactly these 
materials. That is already public information. So under the exact terms 
of this proposal, the court's evaluation would essentially be 
predetermined.

Regardless of how much information the court is permitted to review, 
what standard of review is employed, how open the proceedings are, and 
what role the plaintiffs are permitted to play, the court will 
essentially be required to grant immunity under this bill.

Now, proponents will argue that the plaintiffs in the lawsuits 
against the companies can participate in briefing to the court. This is 
true. But they are allowed to participate only to the extent it does 
not necessitate the disclosure of classified information. The 
administration has restricted information about this illegal program so 
much that, again, more than 70 Members of this Chamber alone don't even 
have access to the basic facts about what happened. So let's not 
pretend that the plaintiffs will be able to participate in any 
meaningful way. And even if they could participate fully, as I said 
before, immunity is a foregone conclusion under the bill.

This result is extremely disappointing on many levels, perhaps most 
of all because granting retroactive immunity is unnecessary and 
unjustified. Doing this will profoundly


undermine the rule of law in this country.

For starters, current law already provides immunity from lawsuits for 
companies that cooperate with the Government's request for assistance, 
as long as they receive either a court order or a certification from 
the Attorney General that no court order is needed and the request 
meets all statutory requirements. But if requests are not properly 
documented, FISA instructs the telephone companies to refuse the 
Government's request, and subjects them to liability if they instead 
still decide to cooperate. Now, there is a reason for this. This 
framework, which has been in place for 30 years, protects companies 
that act at the request of the Government while also protecting the 
privacy of Americans' communications.

Some supporters of retroactively expanding this already existing 
immunity provision argue that the telephone companies should not be 
penalized if they relied on a high-level Government assurance that the 
requested assistance was lawful. But as superficially appealing as that 
argument may sound, it completely ignores the history of the FISA law.

Telephone companies have a long history of receiving requests for 
assistance from the Government. That is because telephone companies 
have access to a wealth of private information about Americans--
information that can be a very useful tool for law enforcement. But 
that very same access to private communications means that telephone 
companies are in a unique position of responsibility and public trust.

And yet, before FISA, there were basically no rules at all to help 
these phone companies resolve the tension between the Government's 
requests for assistance in foreign intelligence investigations and the 
companies' responsibilities to their customers.

So this legal vacuum resulted in serious governmental abuse and 
overreaching. The abuses that took place are well documented and quite 
shocking. With the willing cooperation of the telephone companies, the 
FBI conducted surveillance of peaceful antiwar protesters, journalists, 
steel company executives, and even Martin Luther King, Jr.

So Congress decided to take action. Based on the history of, and 
potential for, Government abuses, Congress decided that it was not 
appropriate--not appropriate--for telephone companies to simply assume 
that any Government request for assistance to conduct electronic 
surveillance was legal. Let me repeat that: A primary purpose of FISA 
was to make clear, once and for all, that the telephone companies 
should not blindly cooperate with Government requests for assistance.

At the same time, however, Congress did not want to saddle telephone 
companies with the responsibility of determining whether the 
Government's request for assistance was a lawful one. That approach 
would leave the companies in a permanent state of legal uncertainty 
about their obligations.

So Congress devised a system that would take the guesswork out of it 
completely. Under that system, which was in place in 2001, and is still 
in place today, the companies' legal obligations and liability depend 
entirely on whether the Government has presented the company with a 
court order or a certification stating that certain basic requirements 
have been met. If the proper documentation is submitted, the company 
must cooperate with the request and will be immune from liability. If 
the proper documentation has not been submitted, the company must 
refuse the Government's request, or be subject to possible liability in 
the courts.

The telephone companies and the Government have been operating under 
this simple framework for 30 years. The companies have experienced, 
highly trained, and highly compensated lawyers who know this law inside 
and out.

In view of this history, it is inconceivable that any telephone 
companies that allegedly cooperated with the administration's 
warrantless wiretapping program did not know what their obligations 
were. It is just as implausible that those companies believed they were 
entitled to simply assume the lawfulness of a Government request for 
assistance. This whole effort to obtain retroactive immunity is based 
on an assumption that doesn't hold water.

That brings me to another issue. I have been discussing why 
retroactive immunity is unnecessary and unjustified, but it goes beyond 
that. Granting companies that allegedly cooperated with an illegal 
program this new form of automatic, retroactive immunity undermines the 
law that has been on the books for decades--a law that was designed to 
prevent exactly the type of actions that allegedly occurred here.

Remember, telephone companies already have absolute immunity if they 
complied with the applicable law. They have an affirmative defense if 
they believed in good faith that they were complying with that law. So 
the retroactive immunity provision we are debating here is necessary 
only if we want to extend immunity to companies that did not comply 
with the applicable law and did not even have a good faith belief that 
they were complying with it. So much for the rule of law.

Even worse, granting retroactive immunity under these circumstances 
will undermine any new laws that we pass regarding Government 
surveillance. If we want companies to follow the law in the future, it 
sends a terrible message, and sets a terrible precedent, to give them a 
''get out of jail free'' card for allegedly ignoring the law in the 
past.

I find it particularly troubling when some of my colleagues argue 
that we should grant immunity in order to encourage the telephone 
companies to cooperate with Government in the future. They want 
Americans to think that not granting immunity will damage our national 
security. But if you take a close look at the argument, it does not 
hold up. The telephone companies are already legally obligated to 
cooperate with a court order, and as I have mentioned, they already 
have absolute immunity for cooperating with requests that are properly 
certified. So the only thing we would be encouraging by granting 
immunity here is cooperation with requests that violate the law. That 
is exactly the kind of cooperation that FISA was supposed to prevent.

Let's remember why. These companies have access to our most private 
conversations, and Americans depend on them to respect and defend the 
privacy of these communications unless there is clear legal authority 
for sharing them. They depend on us to make sure the companies are held 
accountable for betrayals of that public trust. Instead, this immunity 
provision would invite the telephone companies to betray that trust by 
encouraging cooperation with illegal Government programs.

But this immunity provision does not just allow telephone companies 
off the hook for breaking the law. It also will make it that much 
harder to get to the core issue that I have been raising since December 
2005, which is that the President ran an illegal program and should be 
held accountable. When these lawsuits are dismissed, we will be that 
much further away from an independent judicial review of this program.

Since 9/11, I have heard it said many times that what separates us 
from our enemies is respect for the rule of law. Unfortunately, the 
rule of law has taken it on the chin from this administration. Over and 
over, the President and his advisers have claimed the right to ignore 
the will of Congress and the laws on the books if and when they see 
fit. Now they are claiming the same right for any entity that assists 
them in that effort, no matter how unreasonable that assistance might 
have been.

On top of all this, we are considering granting immunity when more 
than 70 members of the Senate still--still--have not been briefed on 
the President's wiretapping program. The majority of this body still 
does not even know what we are being asked to grant immunity for.

In sum, I cannot support this legislation. I appreciate that changes 
were made to the Senate bill, but they are not enough. Nowhere near 
enough.

We have other alternatives. We have options. We do not have to pass 
this law in the midst of a presidential election year, while George 
Bush remains President, in the worst possible political climate for 
constructive legislating in this area. If the concern is that orders 
issued under the PAA could expire as early as August, we could extend 
the PAA for another 6 months, 9 months, even a year. We could put a 1-
year sunset on this bill, rather than


having it sunset in the next Presidential election year when partisan 
politics will once again be at their worst. Or we could extend the 
effect of any current PAA orders for 6 months or a year. All of these 
options would address any immediate national security concerns.

What we do not have to do and what we should not do is pass a law 
that will immunize illegal behavior and fundamentally alter our 
surveillance laws for years to come.

I have spent a great deal of time over the past year--in the Senate 
Intelligence Committee, in the Senate Judiciary Committee, and on the 
Senate floor--discussing my concerns, offering amendments, and debating 
the possible effects of the fine print of various bills. But this is 
not simply about fine print. In the end, my opposition to this bill 
comes down to this: This bill is a tragic retreat from the principles 
that have governed Government conduct in this sensitive area for 30 
years. It needlessly sacrifices the protection of the privacy of 
innocent Americans, and it is an abdication of this body's duty to 
stand up for the rule of law. I will vote no.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.