---
---

# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `e86bf96ec95a0484d0fda6fc560f11fe`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 24 May 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I rise this evening to support the 
supplemental appropriations bill we will be considering shortly.

Let me be very clear. I strongly disagree with the President on our 
course in Iraq. I was one of only 23 Members of the Senate to vote 
against going to the war in Iraq, and I am committed to changing the 
course, redeploying our troops, and refocusing our efforts on fighting 
the global war on terror. I have voted time and again for resolutions 
and amendments to change direction. I believe the President is wrong to 
continue on with an open-ended commitment to an Iraqi government that 
has repeatedly failed to meet deadlines and take responsibility for its 
own country. I believe the President is wrong to continue to ignore the 
warnings of generals, experts, and the will of the American people.

But I also believe the President is wrong when, in his stubborn 
refusal to change, he also withholds money for our troops whom he has 
sent into harm's way. The President did just that on May 1 when he 
vetoed a congressionally approved supplemental that provided $4 billion 
more than he asked for for our troops. When the President vetoed that 
bill, he was the one who denied our troops the resources, equipment, 
and funding they need to do their jobs safely. The President was wrong, 
but he hasn't changed his mind. He and the majority of Republicans in 
Congress are blocking funding for our troops.

As we head into this Memorial Day, I will vote for this supplemental 
because the President has blocked this funding for too long, and I will 
vote for this supplemental because Democrats in Congress have changed 
our course. With this bill, we have taken a responsible path forward, 
in spite of the President, on many of our Nation's most pressing 
issues.

This bill, for the first time, funds the needs of our veterans and 
wounded warriors who have sacrificed for all of us and whose needs the 
President has refused to acknowledge as the cost of war. This bill 
makes our homeland more secure by investing critical funds in our ports 
and our borders, and this bill aids the recovery of hard-hit 
communities across the country and in the gulf coast where families 
have continued to suffer due to neglect from this administration. In 
just 5 short months, Democrats have provided a new commitment to the 
American people, a new direction in Iraq, and we are going to continue 
on this new path to change.

From the start of the war in Iraq, the Republican Congress allowed 
President Bush a free hand. They held few oversight hearings. They 
demanded no accountability. There were no wide-ranging investigations 
into this administration's endless mistakes. Year after year, they sent 
the President blank checks in the form of emergency supplementals. Now, 
5 years into this war, after 5 years without accountability, 3,400 of 
our heroes have died, and over 25,000 have been injured. Our troops are 
now policing a civil war in Iraq. Billions of taxpayer dollars are 
unaccounted for. The reconstruction of Iraq is far from complete, and 
our veterans are facing awful conditions when they return home.

In November, voters asked for an end to this. They voted for us to 
stand up, ask difficult questions, and hold those who make mistakes 
accountable for them. Democrats heard that call.

Immediately after being sworn in, we began to hold hearings. We heard 
from military and foreign affairs experts and called administration 
officials to testify--under oath. We began conducting investigations 
into prewar intelligence, the waste of taxpayer dollars, and the 
treatment of our veterans. Democrats began holding vote after vote on 
Iraq. We forced Republicans to make clear to Americans where they stood 
on the war: Are they for escalation or redeployment? Are they for 
allowing Iraqis to continue to shirk their responsibility or for 
forcing them to stand up?

In January, President Bush ignored calls from Congress to follow the 
Iraq Study Group recommendations. Instead, he escalated our troops in 
Iraq. Congressional Republicans refused to criticize the escalation and 
stood by the President and attacked anyone who spoke out against that 
surge.

But congressional Democrats stood strong. We upheld our 
constitutional duties and what Americans put us in office for--
conducting oversight and holding the administration accountable for its 
actions. This trend continued for months, and eventually, though 
slowly, some of my Republican colleagues began separating from the 
President and siding with us and the American people. After months of 
this, Democrats overcame Republican opposition and passed a bill with 
redeployment provisions. We sent that bill, based on the advice from 
the Iraq Study Group and military leaders and supported by 64 percent 
of Americans, to the President. We hoped he would read that bill. We 
hoped he would realize it was the best way forward in Iraq. But he 
didn't, and he vetoed it.

Now, finally, after months of blindly following the President, more 
and more of our colleagues on the other side are beginning to stand up 
to the President, demanding benchmarks and a timeline for change in 
Iraq.

It is clear that despite a slim majority in the House and only a one-
vote margin in the Senate, Democratic efforts are working. Today is 
further evidence of that.

The bill we pass tonight will not be perfect. It doesn't go nearly as 
far as many of us would like. We, along with the American people, have 
made it clear what we want--a new direction that forces Iraqis to take 
control of their own country. Unfortunately, the President has said he 
would veto that bill.



So today we have a bill that takes a step forward with our changing 
course in Iraq. It forces the White House to acknowledge the will of 
the American people and the role of Congress, it pressures Iraqis to 
stand up, and, importantly, it funds our troops. The hard truth, of 
course, is that not enough Democrats are here to override a veto. We 
realize that another veto will not serve our troops well. They need our 
funds; they don't need another White House delay. So we are moving 
ahead.

I will say it again: This bill is not all I hoped for, but this war 
is not going to be brought to a close in 1 day. It is not going to be 
brought to a close with one bill. We will support our troops, and we 
will bring an end to the war in Iraq. We will continue to debate and 
force votes on this war week after week after week. Americans will 
continue to hear where the Republicans stand on this war.

We face terror threats around the world. We must, and we will, defeat 
them. Unfortunately, the Iraqi civil war is not making us more secure. 
We do need to refocus our fight back on the war on terror, and we do 
need to rebuild our military. I support a new direction in Iraq so that 
we can focus on the larger security challenges our country faces, and 
they are high. But I know we can improve security at home, that we can 
track down and eliminate terrorists around the world, and that we can 
take care of our servicemembers. It is a matter of getting our 
priorities straight. Redeploying our troops from Iraq is an important 
first step toward getting those priorities straight. It is a step the 
Senate must take, just as passing this bill tonight is one.

This bill, however, is about much more than just Iraq; it is about 
taking care of the best military in the world, both when they are 
deployed and when they return home. It is about rebuilding here in 
America, on the gulf coast and on family farms from coast to coast, and 
it is about providing hard-working Americans struggling to care for 
their families with a desperately needed raise.

I am not satisfied with the Iraq language in this bill. I disagree 
with Senator Warner's language. I voted against it last week. But I am 
proud of what we were able to accomplish in this bill--in particular, 
taking care of the troops, which this bill does. It includes billions 
more than the President requested to train and equip and take care of 
our fighting men and women and to make sure we care for them when they 
come home.

So tonight, when we vote, I will cast my vote as a yes--not for the 
Warner language, not for the language on Iraq, but to make sure that 
those men and women whom we have sent to battle, despite how I feel, 
have the care and support they need.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.