---
---

# NEW IRAQ STRATEGY
## `e87d7d30092e15a2a722d2ada4cc4091`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. I thank the Senator from Virginia for coming back to 
the floor from another engagement and offering his comments on our 
proposal. He has made an extraordinary effort to do that at a late hour 
in the evening. I am grateful to him for that.

I hope he will not mind my saying that I have seen him agonize over 
this war. We have talked about it privately, going many months back 
before many Senators did, about how do we reconcile our national 
interests with the lives of young men and women from Virginia and 
Tennessee, which we have to think about every day.

He was one of the first to raise questions about our strategy. 
Because he did and because of his background as Navy Secretary and his 
service in World War II and in the Korean War and his senior position 
on Armed Services, everyone paid attention when John Warner spoke.

We have paid attention to his advice every step of the way. What I 
would like to say, very briefly, in response to my friend from 
Virginia, is this: I would hope that over the next few days as we 
consider this, that he will think a little differently about his own 
contribution to the shift in direction our country needs.

His first contribution, in addition to his statement, is the Iraq 
Study Group report. He was a little too modest about it. He had a major 
role in getting it started. If he had not, we would not have the kind 
of membership on the Iraq Study Group that we had with Secretary Baker 
and the leaders of so many different administrations.

Their recommendations need not be put on the bookshelf as a bookend, 
they need to be used.


Having said that, I can understand how he and the President and 
others might be concerned that if one were to read our proposal too 
prescriptively, they would say: Well, how can we pick up 79 
recommendations and say, Mr. President, do all of those things.

The way I read our amendment, we do not do that. The way I read our 
amendment we say very simply that the President and the Congress agree 
the way forward in Iraq is to implement this comprehensive set of 
recommendations, and the President himself should formulate a 
comprehensive plan to do so.

In another part of the amendment, when we get to the part about when 
the troops come home or when the troops' mission moves from a combat 
mission to a support and equipping mission, that is all subject to 
unexpected developments in the security situation on the ground.

So I would say with respect to my colleague from Virginia, that 
another way--and perhaps I am reading it wrong, but the way I read it, 
another way to read this is to say: Let's take the wisdom of this group 
of 10 people, one of them who has ended up as Secretary of Defense in 
this administration, and say: That gives us a framework. We can adopt 
that together. And then, Mr. President, you take these recommendations 
and you draw up a plan.

This is not going to be a plan that the Senator from Colorado and I 
drew up. The President is the only one authorized to draw it up. As it 
affects troops, it is subject to security developments on the ground; 
there is no fixed deadline of any kind here.

I assume that what the President would do, if he were to receive this 
as a law, which might be September by the time it got all the way 
through the conferences, the first person he would sit down with is 
General Petraeus and say: Tell me again about the surge. How are things 
on the ground? What is your recommendation?

The second thing he might do is sit down with General Jones and say: 
Tell me, General, what have you found out about the position of the 
Iraqi forces?



Then I think he would call in the Joint Chiefs and the intelligence 
folks and say: I have to develop a plan. Give me your advice about what 
works and what does not work. Then he would present us the plan within 
90 days. But it is not subject to our approval. It is his plan.

Now, we can then do what we can do with our constitutional duties 
about it. But the one thing I am afraid we will miss if we do not move 
to adopt the recommendations now of the Iraq Study Group is the 
bipartisan support that was in that group that the Senator from 
Virginia helped to create and the bipartisan support that is on this 
floor for those recommendations. The President doesn't have that now. 
Without that, he cannot sustain a long-term mission in Iraq of any 
kind, I am afraid. I think we have to have one of some kind over a long 
time.

So I think this goes about as far as it can within this group to say 
to the President: Okay. We can agree with you. But now you draw up the 
plan according to these structures.

I greatly respect the Senator from Virginia. I will continue to 
listen to him. I am deeply grateful to him for coming back to the floor 
tonight. I thank him for his direction in helping to make possible the 
Iraq Study Group plan, General Jones' study. I know we will have many 
more discussions. But the one thing I do not want the President to lose 
is the opportunity to borrow for our long-term strategy the bipartisan 
support in this document and the bipartisan support on this floor.

I yield the floor.