---
---

# None
## `e88ab536da1c7904343da462459c66a2`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 2 October 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. I am going to yield 5 more minutes to myself, and then 
go to my good friend, Mr. Sherman, for as much time as he may consume.



Let it be said that there are other options here to stimulating the 
American economy. I just named 10 different points, and I am going to 
name an 11th.

We have to protect Social Security. From my first moments in Congress 
when I exposed Wall Street's efforts to privatize Social Security and 
attacked it in our own Democratic Caucus when privatization was being 
proposed, I have watched this effort at times to privatize Social 
Security.

Imagine if we had privatized Social Security. Imagine what happens 
when the market goes down and people begin to lose the only guarantee 
in some cases anyone has. We have to protect Social Security. It is 
rock solid through the year 2032 without any changes whatsoever. 
Protecting Social Security must be part of a plan to keep Main Street 
solid.

We have to protect bank deposits. It is a positive development that 
now people are talking about insuring a quarter of a million dollars of 
bank deposits through the FDIC. But the fact of the matter is, you can 
do that without being in a bailout bill.

Protecting investors. We need to bring back strong regulation to Wall 
Street. As chairman of domestic policy, I challenge the Wall Street 
hedge fund speculators who have been a threat to all investors, and I 
intend to keep active watch on the machinations of Wall Street.

We need a new national security policy called ''Strength Through 
Peace.'' I helped lead the effort against the Iraq war. We forget about 
the Iraq war in this debate often, but the truth of the matter is that 
war is going to cost the American people anywhere between $3 trillion 
and $5 trillion and as many lives as have been lost by our soldiers and 
as many lives as have been lost by innocent Iraqis.

We need a new direction in America. We have to end the war and bring 
our troops home. We must engage in diplomacy. We have to reduce the 
military budget and stop these outrageous cost overruns by firms like 
Halliburton.

We have to work so there is safety in America, safe neighborhoods, 
safe homes. I introduced a bill, H.R. 808, which creates a 
comprehensive plan to deal with the issues of violence in American 
society; domestic violence, spousal abuse, child abuse, violence in the 
school, racial violence, gang violence, gun violence, that exact a 
social and economic toll on America.

We can work our way through these dilemmas. This is America. We have 
unlimited ability to solve our problems and to meet challenges. But we 
have to realize that what we have here is not simply an economic 
challenge, it is a spiritual challenge.

Today we are being challenged by greed. Greed will bring down our 
Nation if we don't stand up for those whose prime values have been 
fairness, frugality and faithfulness.

We must remember who we are as Americans. We can begin to strengthen 
ourselves by defeating this bill. Where people are being threatened, 
let us rise up with courage. Where people are being told that there is 
no other path, let us provide alternatives. And let us reclaim the 
Nation that we love.

Standing above us, rising above us is an American eagle, a beautiful 
American eagle at the canopy of this House. This eagle, which spreads 
itself over the fullness of this Congress, has a left wing and a right 
wing. That American eagle needs two wings to fly. That American eagle 
was able to soar a few days ago, and hopefully it will soar again 
tomorrow.

The motto under that eagle, E. Pluribus Unum, out of many we are one. 
Let us be one for the mass of Americans. Let us be one for the 
homeowners. Let us be one for those who want jobs. Let us be one for 
those who want health care. Let us be one for those who want a country 
they can call their own, the people of the United States of America.

1. Health Care for All: Insurance companies make money not providing 
health care. As the co-author of H.R. 676, a universal, single-payer, 
not-for-profit health care system, Medicare for All, I understand 
millions of Americans want health care that is accessible and 
affordable.

Medicare for All will help businesses large and small, create jobs as 
well as save the jobs of thousands of people including those of 
doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers who are currently leaving 
medicine because it is run by the insurance companies. $1 in every 3 
dollars of the $2.4 trillion spent annually in America for health care 
goes to the insurance companies. If we take that money ($800 billion in 
unproductive wasteful spending) and put it directly into care, we will 
have enough money to cover everyone. We are already paying for Medicare 
for all, but not receiving it. H.R. 676 changes that.

2. Prescription Drug Benefit for Seniors: H.R. 6800 is the MEDS Act, 
which provides a fully paid prescription drug benefit, under Medicare, 
for all seniors. I wrote this bill to help alleviate the economic 
pressure that comes from the high cost of prescription drugs. We can 
pay for it by letting the government negotiate drug prices with the 
pharmaceutical companies as well as by permitting re-importation.

3. Stop the Oil Companies' Price Gouging: As you know, I was the 
first one to step up to challenge of the corrupt price gouging and 
market speculation of the oil companies by proposing a windfall profits 
tax, on oil and natural gas companies. with revenues put into tax 
credits for the purchase of fuel-efficient American-made cars, However, 
it may be that nationalization is the only way to put an end to the oil 
companies' sharp practices.

4. Protecting the American Homestead: As Chairman of the Domestic 
Policy Oversight Subcommittee, I am working to protect your basic right 
to have a roof over your head, whether as an owner or renter. I have 
Investigated and helped to expose the manipulation of mortgage markets, 
and I am crafting a new federal policy so that neighborhoods with the 
highest number of foreclosures get the most help.

5. Jobs for All: Congressman LaTourette and I have co-authored the 
bi-partisan New


Deal-type jobs program, H.R. 3400, ''Rebuilding America's 
Infrastructure.'' It will create millions of good-paying new jobs 
rebuilding our roads, bridges, water systems and sewer systems.

6. American Manufacturing Policy: I am drafting the American 
Manufacturing Policy Act, which for the first time, will state that the 
maintenance of U.S. steel, automotive, and aerospace industries are 
vital to our national economic security and must be maintained through 
integrated public-private cooperation, new trade policies, and 
investment.

7. Works Green Administration: I am also drafting plans for a green 
New Deal jobs program, in which the govemment creates millions of jobs 
by incentivizing the design, engineering, manufacturing, distribution 
and maintenance of millions of wind and solar micro-technologies for 
millions of homes and businesses, dramatically lowering energy costs 
and reducing our dependence on oil.

8. Fair Trade: The U.S. has lost millions of good-paying jobs, and 
more jobs have been out-sourced. As you know, I have helped to lead the 
way in opposition to trade giveaways. I strongly urge repeal of NAFTA. 
We must include workers' rights, human rights and environmental quality 
principles in all trade pacts. We must also protect the Great Lakes' 
water resources from the reach of multi-national corporations.

9. Education for All: I know families need help with the rising cost 
of day care. That is why I introduced H.R. 4060. a universal pre-
kindergarten program to ensure that all children ages 3-5 have access 
to full-day, quality day care.

10. Protecting Pensions: I am working to change bankruptcy laws so 
pensioners' claims will be first, ahead of banks, and that corporate 
executives who misuse workers' pension funds are subject to criminal 
penalties. I want to fully fund the Pension Benefit Guarantee Board.

11. Social Security: From my first moments in Congress, I have 
exposed Wall Street's efforts to privatize Social Security and attacked 
it in the Democratic Caucus when it was being proposed. Can you imagine 
where seniors would be today if Social Security had been turned over to 
the stock market? Social Security is solid through 2032 without any 
changes.

12. Protect Bank Deposits: I will work to make sure the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, FDIC, has sufficient funds to provide 
for insurance of deposits up to $200,000 at all banks and savings and 
loans. This is an urgent matter since so many banks are said to be 
vulnerable.

13. Protect Investors: Bring back strong regulation to Wall Street. 
As Chairman of the Domestic Policy Subcommittee, I challenged the Wall 
Street hedge fund speculators as a threat to small Investors. I intend 
to keep active watch over the machinations on Wall Street.

14. Strength through Peace: You'll remember when I led the effort 
against the ill-conceived Iraq war, which has now cost more than 4.100 
U.S. soldiers' lives, cost U.S. taxpayers between $3 trillion and $5 
trillion, and resulted in the deaths of more than a million Iraqis. We 
must bring our troops home and end the war. We must engage in 
diplomacy. We must reduce the military budget, and we must stop 
outrageous cost overruns by the likes of Halliburton.

16. Safety in America: I am proud of my work for peace. In July 2001, 
I introduced a bill, which today is H.R. 808, that for the first time 
creates a comprehensive plan to deal with the issues of violence in 
American society, particularly domestic violence, spousal abuse, child 
abuse, gang violence, gun violence, racial violence, and violence 
against gays by establishing a Cabinet-level Department of Peace and 
Restorative Justice. This proposal has sparked a national movement and 
when implemented will save taxpayers millions of dollars.

16. Monetary Policy: It is long past the time that we looked at the 
implications of our debt based monetary system, the privatization of 
money created by the 1913 Federal Reserve Act. the banks fractional 
reserve system and our debt-based economic system. Unless we have 
dramatic reform of monetary policy, the entire economic system will 
continue to accelerate wealth upwards. I am currently working on 
drafting legislation for an 'American Monetary Act' to address these 
and other issues in order to protect the economic well-being of 
America.

I yield to my friend from California, who has done such a wonderful 
job in organizing what is called the Skeptics Caucus, at a time where 
skepticism is called for. Through enlightened articulation of facts, he 
has come forward, as has my good friend and colleague from Ohio, 
Representative Marcy Kaptur, who has courageously stood here day in and 
day out challenging this corrupt bailout.

I yield to my friends, and I thank you for your service to America 
and for your service to your communities.
