# None
## `e88ea1af49013cd20f71e3acdbaf5f55`
`Mr. SUNUNU — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. SUNUNU. Madam President, I rise today in favor of the Sanders 
amendment, No. 2905, to the Department of Defense authorization bill, 
which would establish a pilot program aimed at providing essential care 
and services to National Guard soldiers returning home from duty.

Back in the fall of 2004, the New Hampshire National Guard was one of 
the first Guard units to recognize the unique difficulties encountered 
by guardsmen and women returning from combat operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. In response, the Guard led the way in addressing these 
concerns by establishing its own reunion and reentry program, which 
employs innovative solutions to cope with the difficult transition to 
life at home.

Under the reentry program, soldiers and their families receive 
multiple counseling sessions and an introduction to the array of 
services available to them within the first 36 hours of returning home. 
The program works to ensure that servicemembers and their families 
recognize that they are not alone and that the Guard is committed to 
providing the care and assistance they need after returning from 
deployment.

This program has proven to be enormously successful, and has become a 
model for other States, due in part because it removes the burden of 
seeking and requesting care from the individual soldier. I am proud of 
the leadership role New Hampshire's National Guard has taken in 
combating this very serious problem.

I am pleased the Senate adopted the Sanders amendment to provide 
support that will allow other States to establish programs similar to 
New Hampshire's.