# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `e8b070c4bd412e322dc7549482bf759f`
`Mr. OBEY — 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of the time.

Mr. Speaker, as I noted at the beginning of the debate, this item 
represents last year's left-over business. It is the last item of last 
year's left-over business.

We have been mired in a war for over 7 years. The President previous 
to this one has continually minimized the cost of that war by financing 
it on the installment plan. Instead of providing a full estimate of a 
yearly cost for the war, he would ask to fund that war in 6-month 
increments. And when he left office, there was still one 6-month 
increment left to go that was not yet paid for left over from his 
watch. And so this bill today, in the process of supporting the 
President's policies of trying to wind down that war, is providing the 
remaining funding for this fiscal year to help accomplish that.

In addition, this new President is trying to change the way that that 
war has been breaking in Afghanistan, and by necessity, Pakistan, which 
is integrally tied to the Afghanistan situation. And what he is trying 
to do is, through a combination of military action, political action, 
and diplomacy, he is trying to change the mix and gradually extricate 
ourselves from that conflict and stabilize that region politically in 
the process. I doubt that that will succeed. But this President, having 
inherited a God awful mess both at home and abroad, has a right to try 
to fix this situation. That's what the American people, in part, 
elected him to do. And so this bill provides the financing to do that.

And, yes, it added some other items that were not in the bill when it 
left the House. It did add funding for the IMF, about which our friends 
on the other side of the aisle roundly complain. But I would point out, 
in 1999, the last time I believe that we voted on this, the majority 
party then, our friends on the other side of the aisle, added IMF 
funding to the Transportation bill and 162 Republicans voted for it. I 
find it interesting that today, with a new President, they decline to 
provide that support.

We also added something else. The GI bill education proposal that the 
Congress passed last year, had one remaining gap which needed to be 
filled. That legislation said that if you served your country in the 
military a sufficient length of time, you could then obtain education 
benefits; and if you did not use them yourself, you could convert them 
to the use of your spouse or your children. This bill closes a gap 
because the one thing that that bill did not do last year was to enable 
a combat veteran who was killed in combat to make that same transfer of 
education benefits to a spouse or children. This bill provides that 
expanded benefit for our fighting men and women. It was not in the bill 
when it left the House. It is now. If you vote against this bill, 
that's one of the provisions you will be voting against.

We also have additional money for military hospitals that the 
administration did not request. We have additional help for the auto 
industry. I didn't think that was a Federal offense to try to provide 
some assistance to that industry. And, yes, we have a significant 
amount of additional funding for pandemic flu. Now, we tried to put 
that money initially in the original economic recovery package. We did 
put it in when the bill left the House. It


went to the Senate and we were laughed at. People said, ''Oh, what does 
the flu have to do with the economy and with jobs?'' Well, Mexico found 
out when they had to shut down their entire economy for 2 weeks because 
of the turmoil in that country with the flu. It is now estimated that 
as many as one-third of Americans will be hit by that flu. This bill 
has billions of additional dollars to try and meet that challenge. And 
I would submit to you that the average American family has a greater 
chance of being hit by that flu than it does to be hit by any terrorist 
presently ensconced in Guantanamo.

Now, we are also told that the IMF funding is bad because it borrows 
money in order to give to other countries. You know, this is a tough 
reality; we have to participate in the world. And when the world 
economy becomes shaky, we have a responsibility to ourselves to try to 
stabilize that world economic situation. That is one of the roles that 
the IMF tries to play. It certainly does it imperfectly--and I've had 
many arguments with them in the past--but to say that our contribution 
to the IMF does not benefit us is to be ignorant of history and to be 
ignorant of how the world economy works.

The fact is that we created the IMF after World War II. Why? Because 
we saw what led up to World War II. We saw the world's financial system 
collapse in the thirties. As a result, in Germany, Hitler came to power 
and 50 million people died. We would kind of like to avoid that this 
time. And so what we're trying to do is to provide the President with 
all the tools he needs internationally to defend our economic stability 
and to stabilize the economy of our trading partners because our 
economy does not function and we do not create sufficient jobs in this 
economy unless we help create economic conditions in other countries so 
they can buy our goods. That's why we do it. It's called enlightened 
self-interest.

In addition, it has been suggested that somehow money that we 
appropriate to the IMF is going to go to Iran. Well, let me tell you 
something, Mr. Speaker. Iran has not had a loan from the IMF since 
1962. And under this legislation, the United States representative at 
the IMF is required to oppose any loan or assistance to countries such 
as Iran that have been designated by the Secretary of State as a state 
sponsor of terrorism.

The United States can effectively block loans that it opposes. We've 
got by far the largest block of votes of any single member. And I doubt 
very seriously that the IMF is going to approve any loan that we don't 
approve of.

One other thing. We've been told that somehow the President is 
endangering national security because he has not allowed the Congress 
to pass the Lieberman amendment with respect to the release of those 
pictures. The fact is the President sent to the conferees a letter and 
made quite clear that he will do everything in his power to prevent the 
use of those pictures. I want to quote one paragraph from his letter:



''I deeply appreciate all you have done to help with the efforts to 
secure funding for the troops and assure you I will continue to take 
every legal and administrative remedy available to me to ensure that 
DOD detainee photographs are not released. Should a legislative 
solution prove necessary, I am committed to work with the Congress to 
enact legislation that achieves the objectives we all share.''

Now, each of us can nitpick or object to certain specifics in this 
bill, but the great thing about democracy is that after we've had a 
chance to state our first preferences and fight for what we believe in, 
in the end we also have an obligation to reach consensus and move on. 
That's what this bill tries to do. It must be finished before we can 
move on to finish the rest of our appropriation bills and to get to the 
other huge items on the agenda, including health care and climate 
change.

I urge an ''aye'' vote for the bill.


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH16JN09.001




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH16JN09.002




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH16JN09.003




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH16JN09.004




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH16JN09.005




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH16JN09.006




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH16JN09.007




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH16JN09.008




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH16JN09.009




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH16JN09.010




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH16JN09.011



