---
---

# THE ACCOUNTABILITY CONGRESS: THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `e8bc52b1e26fb56622d9e8f3caf96b0d`
`Mr. HODES — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. I thank you, Mr. Ellison. You know, I couldn't help when I 
was listening to Patrick Murphy, a brave veteran who served his country 
and came to Congress and is serving again, continuing his service, to 
think about how touched I was when he talked about his new baby. 
Because, really, what we are talking about here is a vision for this 
country and a vision


for the world that is going to take us on into the 21st century, 
because we face challenging new times. Things have changed in this 
country, and the American people know it. And in many ways they are far 
ahead of the politicians, they are far ahead of many of us. They 
understand that things have changed in this country.

The conflicts we face are different kinds of conflicts. It is no 
longer nation against nation. We face threats from a shadowy network of 
people, terrorists who would do us harm. And we have to be strong to be 
able to fight terrorism.

But what does being strong mean in the 21st century? The American 
people have demanded a new direction. They have demanded a new way to 
defend our country. They want us to fight terrorism, and we intend to 
fight terrorism; but we intend to do it with a greater focus on those 
who attacked us on 9/11, with a greater focus on homeland security, on 
making sure that we are keeping nuclear weapons out of the hands of 
terrorists. Perhaps the greatest threat we face, which went by the 
boards because of this administration's preoccupation with fighting the 
wrong war in Iraq which has diverted us from really focusing on the 
concentrated effort we need from law enforcement, from intelligence, 
from military, from diplomacy, from the soft power that America, has 
been extending our cultural ideals and principles out into the world to 
show people that we are not merely going to bully people with weapons, 
but we are also going to stand on our ideals and principles.

So defending our country and staying strong means making sure that we 
have a responsible strategy to disengage from Iraq so we can deal with 
Afghanistan, and Pakistan, where Osama bin Laden is still hiding out, 
still directing al Qaeda; so that we can do what we need to do to go 
back and finish the job that this administration left unfinished. That 
is what defending our country means, because this war in Iraq, as 
everybody in this country is seeing, has left us weaker. It has caused 
more terrorism, more death, more disdain for the United States.



I am sorry for that. We want to see us return to the place in the 
world where people care about us because of our values and our 
principles, and that is one of the most important things that we are 
going to do in this 110th Congress.

We are going to improve our military readiness by making sure that we 
are going to rebuild a 21st century force, capable of projecting power 
and our ideals to protect our country and our interests, and that means 
new thinking. It means new thinking about how we deal with the 
conflicts we are in, how we deal with the conflicts in the future.

It means part of the reason that we hope the President takes his cue 
from the American people and faces the reality of the mess that he has 
made and changes direction is so that we can rebuild our military to 
make sure that we can face the conflicts of the future.

We are going to demand accountability, and we are going to end the 
rubber-stamp approach to congressional oversight of the war in Iraq and 
we have started to do that. We are going to continue to do that. We are 
going to fight the war on terrorism, and we are going to hold our own 
government accountable for failed policies. We are going to respond to 
the American people who want a new direction, and we are going to 
deliver on homeland security.

That is the first way. That is the first thing on our agenda. It is a 
new vision of what it means to be strong. It is a new vision of what it 
means to defend our country.

We can have all the military might in the world and we do. We spend 
more in our budget than all the rest of the world combined spends on 
defense, and I ask, you has it made us safer? Have the policies of this 
administration made us safer? The answer is no.

We see there has got to be a new direction. We see there has got to 
be a new vision, and that is what Democrats are bringing to this 110th 
Congress when it comes to defending our country and keeping us strong. 
There is a new definition of national security, and that is what we are 
all about.