---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `e8cb045b84d466bf18a67cd47697514c`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, this is a defining moment. The American 
people are watching. The world is watching. The issue is clear: Will we 
stand with our soldiers by changing their mission to begin to bring 
them home or will we stand to keep our soldiers in Iraq's civil war? 
History will judge us. We can either continue down the President's 
perilous path or embrace a new direction. If we don't change course, we 
know what lies ahead: more American casualties, more American death, 
and more destruction. A new strategy that makes the Iraqis less reliant 
on our military is the best way forward. More of the same misguided 
policy will result in more of the same tragedy for our military. Let's 
try a new course and try it now.

We must proceed because Iraq is the overarching issue of our time. We 
are being told we need to be patient. We are being told we have to give 
the latest escalation a chance to succeed. But we have heard it all 
before. We have heard for years that this administration has a plan for 
success. We have heard for years that progress is just a few months 
away. We have heard for years that we have turned a corner. But the 
plans for success keep getting tossed aside for new plans, the 
timelines for progress keep getting extended, and we have turned so 
many corners that we have ended up back where we started: trying to 
control Baghdad.

It is time to change direction. There are too many parents who have 
buried their children, too many children left without their father or 
mother, and too many soldiers missing arms and legs and eyes and ears. 
It is time to change course, let the Iraqis step up to the plate and 
take responsibility for their own future, and begin to redeploy our 
troops out of Iraq.

Those of us who oppose the war are used to the administration's 
attacks. They have questioned our patriotism and called us defeatist. 
When we challenged the President's misguided policy, they accused us of 
having political motives and being partisan. They were wrong then, and 
they are wrong now. Our motives have always been clear: to protect the 
lives of our soldiers.

The American people are far ahead of the administration. We have an 
obligation to stand up for our troops and stand up to our President 
when he stubbornly refuses to change course in Iraq. We are meeting our 
responsibility by changing the mission of our military, not 
micromanaging the war.

The recent hearings on Walter Reed should instruct us here today. 
They tell us how little faith we can put in this administration. The 
very people who hide behind the troops when their policies are 
questioned have failed to keep faith with our wounded soldiers. But 
just as importantly, the hearings on Walter Reed remind us all of the 
human costs of the war. This administration has done all it can to hide 
them from us. They have forbidden photographs of the coffins flown back 
from Iraq. The President has avoided attending the funerals of the 
fallen, and the tours at Walter Reed never included Building 18. But 
the hearings on Walter Reed swept away all the spin and camouflage and 
put our wounded soldiers back where they belong: at the heart of our 
debate about the war.

At the end of those hearings, everyone agreed that the Army had 
failed these brave soldiers. But we failed them long before they 
arrived at an Army hospital. This administration failed them when it 
trumped up the intelligence in order to make the case for war.