# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `e8d999f12d426aea601b3ee23615183d`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Mr. Speaker, today this body did something that 
it failed to do last year under the previous majority by passing 
legislation to direct the spending of our Federal Government.

I am disappointed that the choice of the President and the minority 
to engage in confrontation and obstruction instead of cooperation and 
progress prevented us from more fully meeting America's needs in this 
bill. Despite their intransigence, we were able to pass a bill that 
began to reinvest in critical national priorities that had been 
neglected for too long. Priorities like life saving medical research, 
law enforcement, border and homeland security, K-12 education, college 
aid, needed infrastructure improvements, renewable energy, and energy 
efficiency. In addition to those steps, this bill lived up to the 
commitment of this Congress to keep our promises to America's veterans 
by providing $3.7 billion over the President's request for veterans' 
medical care, claims processing, and facility improvements.

I indicated when the House considered this legislation earlier this 
week that I believed this is not a perfect bill. However, I believe 
that the spending bill we approved on December 17, 2007, does a 
tremendous amount of good by funding key programs that will make 
America more secure and more prosperous. It makes necessary investments 
in America's future, and that is why I voted for it.

Unfortunately, the Senate has added funding for the war in Iraq 
without placing a time line for withdrawal. For that reason, I could 
not support the Senate version of the bill and voted against it.