---
---

# None
## `e8dca62ef7467c357fe0998268895f32`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, let me yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Again, I find it somewhat ironic to listen to the gentleman's 
comments who has no problem supporting a $3 trillion war in Iraq that 
has resulted in 4,000 American soldiers dead, tens of thousands 
wounded; and on top of all that, not even paying for the war, just 
putting it on the credit card so our kids and our grandkids have to pay 
for it. Many of my friends on the other side of the aisle who have 
supported tax cuts for the richest of the rich and decided that it 
wasn't important to pay for it; instead, put it on the credit card and 
on the backs of our kids; who have voted for budgets to cut veterans 
health and to cut money for health care in general. And what we have 
been trying to do is to make up for the indifference of so many years.

You know, the gentleman presents a false choice. What we're trying to 
do here is actually respond to a humanitarian crisis in a bipartisan 
way. I mean, I don't often stand with the President of the United 
States, but I do on this. He's right. We can't ignore the HIV/AIDS 
crisis or the crisis with regard to malaria and tuberculosis around the 
world.

This is a moral imperative. And I will tell you, in addition to being 
a moral imperative, it makes sense for the United States to take a 
leadership role and encourage the rest of the world to step up and to 
provide the resources to combat these scourges.

This is the right thing to do. I'm proud of this bipartisan 
collaboration of this bill. And I hope all my colleagues will support 
it.

I want to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Florida, my colleague 
on the Rules Committee, Mr. Hastings.