---
---

# CONGRATULATING THE ARMY RESERVE ON ITS CENTENNIAL
## `e8e2764ed592f92f74ebfcd8a33dace5`
`Mrs. BACHMANN — 8 April 2008`

---


Mrs. BACHMANN. Madam Speaker, as the Army Reserve celebrates its 
centennial, I rise to congratulate the Reserve on its dedicated service 
and sacrifice to ensure our Nation's freedom. Since its inception on 
April 23, 1908, the Reserve and its more than 1 million citizen-
soldiers have protected American citizens at home and abroad. When 
tyranny raises its fist and liberty is threatened, the citizen-soldier 
answers the call to ease the suffering. For this, our Nation is forever 
grateful.

Today, more than 20,000 Army Reserve soldiers are deployed in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, and 18 other countries, with an additional 7,000 Army 
Reserve serving in the United States. In my home State of Minnesota, 
historic Fort Snelling is the proud home to the 88th Regional Readiness 
Command, comprised of Reserve units from Minnesota, Wisconsin, 
Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio. America's greatness lies in her 
people, and the American soldier is the embodiment of hard work, 
patriotism and service, the finest of America's principles.

Madam Speaker, it is my honor to recognize today the selfless 
commitment and sacrifice of so many citizen-soldiers. It is they who 
lay down their lives to defend those who cannot defend themselves. It 
is they who lay down their lives to protect the rights of those who 
disrespect our flag and our Nation. And it is they who lay down their 
lives so that true freedom will never know extinction. As April 23 
approaches, let us remember and be forever grateful for the Army 
Reserve's 100 years of noble service and sacrifice to our Nation.