---
---

# None
## `e8fdb98cb22e98e7aae7134163eec3ad`
`Mr. SMITH of Texas — 3 August 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, this bill should be opposed by anyone who wants to 
protect America from terrorists.

It is a pitiful sight to see the majority denying the Director of 
National Intelligence the tools he needs to protect our country from 
terrorist attacks. The director warned Congress that ''the House 
proposal would not allow me to carry out my responsibility to provide 
warning and to protect the Nation, especially in our heightened threat 
environment.''

According to the Director, the current Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Act of 1978, or FISA, does not allow the intelligence 
community to be effective. Specifically, the Director is unable to 
collect crucial information involving foreign terrorists.

Neither the Constitution nor Federal law restricts the ability of law 
enforcement or intelligence agents to monitor overseas communications; 
however, the bill would require the Director to obtain a court order to 
monitor calls from a foreign country to the United States. For 
instance, a foreign terrorist in Iraq who calls another terrorist in 
New York City would require or could require a court order. That 
jeopardizes American lives.

We are a Nation at war with foreign terrorists who continue to plan 
deadly attacks against America. We have an urgent need to modernize the 
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.

Telecommunications technology has evolved dramatically over the last 
30 years. Terrorist tactics are constantly changing in response to our 
efforts to disrupt their plots, and essential tools that we use must be 
modernized to keep up with this changing environment.

The safety of Americans depends on action by Congress. Al Qaeda 
recently released a video promising a big surprise in coming weeks. 
This threat, along with other activity, has heightened the concern 
among our intelligence agencies. Unfortunately, this bill fails to 
provide the fix that the Director has repeatedly told us is urgent.

First, the bill sunsets in 120 days. In 4 months, we will be right 
back where we started, dealing with the issue once again.

Second, the bill imposes bureaucratic requirements on the FISA 
process that will hamper efforts to protect America.

Third, the bill will interject the FISA court into a role that it has 
never had before. The bill will make it harder for the Director to do 
his job.

The majority could have solved the problem months ago. In April, the 
Director submitted to Congress a comprehensive proposal to modernize 
FISA. That proposal should already have been enacted. The majority 
failed to do so.

I hope, Madam Speaker, that there are no attacks before we revisit 
the issue and do what we should have done today. I urge my colleagues 
to oppose this legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.