---
---

# TRIBUTE TO ARMY SERGEANT CORY ENDLICH
## `e90b69f2b570ff2298bcc3e1c1fe5017`
`Mr. REGULA — 22 June 2007`

---


Mr. REGULA. Madam Speaker, with great sorrow I rise to pay tribute 
and recognize a dedicated soldier and citizen from my district. On 
Saturday, June 9, 2007, Army Sergeant Cory Endlich lost his life during 
hostile fire while patrolling an area northwest of Baghdad.

A 2003 graduate of Massillon Washington High School, Sergeant Endlich 
was a 4-year member of the Massillon Tiger Swing Band as well as a 2-
year member of the cross country team. While many of his friends 
dreamed about becoming professional athletes, he dreamed of becoming a 
paratrooper for the United States Army. He was also a devoted citizen, 
helping in missions at home, including the rebuilding of New Orleans 
after Hurricane Katrina before his deployment to Iraq.

This outstanding young man showed courage and a commitment to protect 
those who could not protect themselves. He had requested in his last 
letter to his mother for her to send coloring books, crayons and hard 
candy for Iraqi children he had befriended. Sergeant Endlich is a true 
hero and a reminder of the dedication evidenced by all the men and 
women all over the world fighting the war on terror. We must reflect on 
this great life and all the good that is being done in Iraq.

Army Sergeant Endlich and his family will be forever in our hearts 
and prayers. May we keep them in mind as they struggle through this 
difficult period of mourning.
