# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `e910c4f2a494cf098df3888adf9f051a`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I will vote for this Defense 
Supplemental conference report.

Earlier, when the House considered the Defense Supplemental bill 
itself, I voted for it to ensure that America's soldiers get the 
equipment and resources they need and the top-quality health care they 
may require when they come home.

And I think the conference report is an improvement on that House 
bill.

As I said when the House debated the initial bill and again during 
debate on the motion to instruct conferees, I did not believe it was a 
good idea for the bill to include a date certain for withdrawing U.S. 
combat troops from Iraq. So I'm glad that language has been made more 
flexible in the conference report. It includes a goal of March 2008 for 
completing the redeployment of U.S. combat troops, and allows 
sufficient troops to remain to protect U.S. military and civilians in 
Iraq, conduct counterterrorism operations, and train Iraqi Security 
Forces. I remain convinced that we should steer clear of arbitrary 
public deadlines for military actions and focus instead on realistic 
diplomatic and political goals. Our military needs flexibility to be 
able to link movements of U.S. troops to the realities of the situation 
on the ground, and successful diplomacy requires such flexibility as 
well.

My vote for the conference report is not a vote to support the Bush 
administration's policy in Iraq. We are 4 years into a war the Bush 
administration assured us would be short and decisive. The 
administration's misjudgments, lack of planning and poor leadership 
have made a bad situation worse--and the tactic of increasing troops 
for a temporary ''surge'' is no substitute for what is needed, namely, 
a strategy for containing civil war and a wider regional war.

But whatever may be said about the wisdom of invading Iraq 4 years 
ago--and I am one who believed it was a mistake to do so--the fact is 
that we are still deeply engaged in Iraq. So long as our troops are in 
the field, we must provide them what they need. Beyond supplying our 
soldiers, however, we must extricate them from what objective defense 
experts have characterized as an emerging civil war.

Disengaging from that civil war is the purpose of the provisions in 
the conference report designed to hold the president accountable to the 
benchmarks set by his own administration and the Iraqi Government--
including enactment of a hydro-carbon law; conducting of provincial and 
local elections; reform of current laws governing the de-Baathification 
process; amendment of the Constitution of Iraq; and allocation of Iraqi 
revenues for reconstruction projects.

I strongly support that approach because I am convinced that holding 
the president and the Iraqi Government accountable for achieving these 
benchmarks will provide us with the leverage necessary to pressure the 
Iraqi Government to forge the political solution we all know is 
required. In fact, Defense Secretary Gates has acknowledged that this 
provision in the House-passed bill has been helpful by showing the 
Iraqis that American patience is limited.

This conference report is an important step toward what I think must 
be our goal--a responsible end to the war in Iraq, based on a strategy 
of phased withdrawal of troops, accelerated diplomacy and redeployment 
that is based on Iraqi stability and not arbitrary deadlines.

The conference report fully funds our troops, providing $4 billion 
more for the troops than


the president requested. It honors our veterans, providing $1.8 billion 
more for our veterans' unmet health care needs, including additional 
funds for treatment of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and Traumatic 
Brain Injury care and research. It strengthens our military, providing 
$2 billion more to create a Strategic Readiness Reserve and address the 
serious readiness crisis our military is facing.

It also protects our troops by limiting deployment schedules and 
setting minimum readiness standards--based on current Defense 
Department standards--for U.S. troops deploying to the region. The 
president could waive these requirements but only by certifying in 
writing to Congress that waiving them would be in the interest of 
national security.

The conference report also provides $52.5 billion for military 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and provides $9.7 billion for the 
Afghan and Iraqi Security Forces to help them assume greater 
responsibility for their nations' security.

And the conference report includes $3.1 billion to fully fund the 
Pentagon's FY07 request for the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure 
Commission's recommendations, which is vitally important for Ft. Carson 
as it prepares to expand and for other military installations in 
Colorado.

On the non-military side, the conference report includes critically 
important funding for farmers and ranchers in southeastern Colorado who 
were recently hit hard by winter storms. Thousands of cattle were 
killed in storms worse than the October 1997 storm that killed 
approximately 30,000 cattle and cost farmers and ranchers an estimated 
$28 million. The struggles that family agriculture producers and small 
counties face are significant and are having a negative impact on the 
livelihood of hundreds of farmers and ranchers and their communities. 
So I am pleased that the Colorado delegation was successful in 
persuading the conferees to include financial assistance for farmers 
and ranchers, including for those affected by Colorado's recent 
blizzards.

Mr. Speaker, many of us who voted against authorizing the President 
to rush to war in Iraq were worried that while it would be easy to 
eliminate the Saddam Hussein regime, the aftermath would be neither 
easy nor quick. Sadly, our fears have proven to be justified. And now, 
as the Pentagon has finally admitted in its most recent quarterly 
report, the situation in Iraq is ''properly descriptive of a civil 
war.''

Insisting on keeping our troops in the middle of that kind of 
internecine war is not a recipe for victory; it is only a prescription 
for quagmire. And as a new Foreign Relations Council report notes, we 
bear responsibility for developments within Iraq, but are increasingly 
without the ability to shape those developments in a positive 
direction.

We need to be scaling back our military mission in Iraq. We need to 
make the U.S. military footprint lighter--not in order to hasten defeat 
or failure in Iraq, but to salvage a critical measure of security and 
stability in a region of the world that we can ill afford to abandon.

But as we do so, we must work to avoid a collapse in the region--not 
only because we have a moral obligation to the people of Iraq, but also 
because our national security has been so badly compromised by the Bush 
administration's failures there. The President's decision to take the 
nation to war has made our country less safe. We need to change course 
and chart a path that enhances our national security and sets the right 
priorities for the war on terrorism and struggle against extremists.

This conference report begins to chart this path, and I will support 
it. I hope the president will reconsider his stated intention of 
vetoing it.