# RENEWABLE ENERGY AND JOB CREATION ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `e9113db6d4305736deffc6643e18cb7f`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 16 June 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I was on one of the Sunday weekend shows 
and was joined by one of my colleagues on the Republican side. The 
discussion on that program was about oil and gas prices and energy 
development. My colleague on the Republican side quite predictably 
said: Well, the problem is the Democrats do not want to produce any 
more oil. They stand in the way of producing oil.

It is such a canard. I wanted to come to the floor to talk about that 
a bit and also to talk about the fact that we are going to vote at 5:30 
today on energy tax credits for renewables. Then we will see who in 
this Chamber does want to produce some energy, because we have had 
chances before, and the Republican side of the aisle, the minority 
side, has blocked our ability to produce.

I want to talk a little bit about that. I know they tend to think 
that unless you are sinking a hole in the ground someplace and sucking 
oil out someplace on the planet, you are not producing. Well, I happen 
to believe there are plenty of places to begin producing additional oil 
in this country. But drilling alone is not going to solve our problem. 
There are other things we must do that represent change that my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle simply cannot embrace; that 
is, being aggressive on renewable forms of energy, wind energy, solar 
energy, biomass, and biofuels. It goes on and on. They do not consider 
that additional production, I guess.

Let me talk first about this issue of the alternative and renewable 
forms of energy. In 1916 this country put in place robust, permanent 
tax incentives to say to people: If you go looking for oil and gas, 
good for you, we want you to do it. We are going to give you some big 
tax breaks. That was put in place almost a century ago.

Here is what this country has done for renewable energy. In 1992 they 
put in place a production tax credit, a short-term, fairly shallow tax 
incentive if you want to produce renewable energy. It has been extended 
five times


since 1992, short term. It has been allowed to expire three times. So 
we have had the stutter-stop, stutter-start approach to dealing with 
the production tax credit for renewable energy.

This chart shows what happens every single time it has not been 
extended. The investment falls off the shelf. Last year, last June, we 
had a bill on the floor of the Senate that said, let us extend this for 
a long period.

I have a bill I introduced that said, I think the Congress and this 
country should say here is where we are headed. For 10 years we have 
been so dependent on the Saudis, the Kuwaitis, the Iraqis, the 
Venezuelans, and others for oil. Sixty percent of our oil comes from 
off our shores. We need to be less dependent, and one way to do that is 
to produce renewable energy right here at home.

So last June we put a bill on the floor of the Senate that said, for 
5 years you can count on the production tax credit to pursue incentives 
for wind and solar and all of those kinds of renewable energies that 
are available to us. Here is the tax incentive for you for the next 
half of a decade.

Guess what. Thirty-four Republicans voted against it and killed it. 
They did not want to do that. Now they are talking about how much they 
want to produce energy. Well, let me talk about this production of 
energy. I happen to think, one voice here, we ought to produce in the 
eastern Gulf of Mexico.

If you take a look at where the oil is, the hood ornament for their 
discussion is always ''ANWR,'' one of the most pristine areas in 
America, set aside in legislation signed by Dwight D. Eisenhower. The 
other side always says, well, ANWR, we have got to produce in ANWR.

Even John McCain votes against producing in ANWR. John McCain said, I 
do not think you ought to produce in the Everglades, in the Grand 
Canyon, I do not think you ought to drill in ANWR. So enough about 
that.

If you take a look at where the oil is, on the outer continental 
shelf in the Gulf of Mexico, off the west coast, off of Alaska, by far 
the most significant reserves of oil are in the Gulf of Mexico, both 
the western gulf and the eastern gulf.

The area off of Florida in the eastern gulf ought to be open, in my 
judgment. But even more interesting are the Cuban waters just south of 
Florida. Many countries have leases to drill off Cuba's coast, 
including Spain, Canada, India. China is actually drilling onshore in 
Cuba, but we expect China to be wanting to drill offshore also. Our oil 
companies want to drill there. There is estimated to be half a million 
barrels a day production off Cuba. But we cannot produce there. Our 
companies cannot go in because we have this embargo with respect to 
Cuba, and the Bush administration is insistent on tightening the 
embargo rather than loosening the embargo. So there are half a million 
barrels a day of production there that our companies cannot go get.

Now, my colleagues introduced a piece of legislation on the 
Republican side for additional production, but it does not include 
producing in the eastern Gulf or off of Cuba. They do not want to 
produce there. So are they for production? Is that what they are 
talking about, or is this a big sham? We know they do not want to 
produce sustainable amounts of renewable energy because they have voted 
against it. They say they are voting against it because the bill 
increases taxes.

Let me tell you what it increases. It says to big hedge fund managers 
that they should invest in renewable energy because the government is 
going to invest in them over the long-term. By the way, the person who 
runs hedge funds and made the most income last year made $3.7 billion. 
If you are wondering, that is going home to say: Honey, I had a pretty 
good month, I made $308 million this month. That is making enough so 
that 4 minutes of work equals the average working man's salary for an 
entire year.

By the way, they get to pay a 15-percent income tax rate, which I 
think is an outrage. But even more than that, they have a game in which 
they defer a portion of their income tax by moving it offshore.

This legislation shuts that down and thereby raises the money to pay 
for some of our investment in renewable energy. The other side is upset 
about that. We are shutting down a tax scam for the wealthiest 
individuals. It is pretty unbelievable. I don't want to hear any more 
noise, deep sounds from the chest masquerading as thoughtful symbols 
from the brain, about production. The fact is, I believe in production. 
That is one part of addressing the issue. One part of it is producing 
oil. But a much more important part is renewable energy because we need 
to change the way we have been doing things.

We are so unbelievably dependent on Saudi oil and oil coming from 
troubled parts of the world. It makes no sense. We have an enormous 
appetite for oil. We sink little straws in this planet every single day 
and suck oil out. We suck out 85 million barrels a day, and we use one-
fourth of it in a little place called the United States. Sixty percent 
of what we use comes from off our shores, much of it from troubled 
parts of the world, and almost 70 percent of that we use in vehicles.

We need to do a lot of things here, and we need to do a lot of things 
right to make us less dependent on foreign sources of oil. We need to 
make our vehicles more efficient, to conserve energy in every single 
way, to make all of our appliances more efficient. There is so much we 
have to do right, including produce more renewable energy.

We will have a chance in an hour and 15 minutes to vote once again on 
funding renewable energy. Most of my colleagues voted against it just 
days ago. I hope they have had some kind of epiphany recently and will 
decide that was the wrong vote and today they will cast the right vote.

Let me talk for a moment about what people are doing today as they 
drive up to the gas pump with their vehicles. They are driving their 
car up to the pump trying to figure out: How much can I afford? I have 
to stop at the grocery store on the way home. Or: I just bought 
medicine. How much can I afford to put in the gas tank?

They put whatever they can in that tank. And by the way, the OPEC 
nations smile all the way to the bank as they deposit our money. The 
big oil companies smile all the way to the bank as they deposit the 
rest of our money. But there is no justification for the current price 
of gas and oil. None. This market system is broken. It doesn't work.

There are three things that are making oil more expensive: No. 1, we 
have OPEC which is a cartel. That would be illegal in our country. But 
a bunch of oil ministers get together in a closed room and make 
judgments as a cartel. No. 2, we have big oil companies--much bigger 
because they were all given the green light to merge in recent years. 
They all now have two names--ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips. They are 
bigger and stronger.

Finally, what I want to talk about is the issue of the futures 
market, which is the third piece that is simply broken. The futures 
market is an unbelievable carnival of speculation. It is supposed to be 
an orderly market by which people can hedge who are involved in the oil 
business. Now we have hedge funds, investment banks. We have all kinds 
of speculators, who will never be interested in ever taking delivery of 
oil, engaged in the futures market and driving up the price of oil and 
gas in a way that makes it at least 20 to 30 percent higher priced than 
a normal supply-demand market would justify.

In every month but one since January of this year, our crude oil 
stocks have increased. Let me say that again. In every month but one 
since January of this year, our inventory of crude oil stocks has 
increased. So supply is increasing.

On the other hand, people are driving slightly less, and there is a 
decrease in demand. So since January, you have both an increase in 
supply and a decrease in demand. What has happened to the price of oil 
and gas? It has gone up like a Roman candle. That means the market is 
broken.

Let me talk a little bit about what I think is happening in this 
market. Let me put up a picture of NYMEX. This is where they trade some 
of these oil commodity stocks. Some of it is what I call dark money, 
traded on exchanges that are not regulated or over the counter and 
can't be seen. This is the way it looks.

Let me quote Clarence Cazalot, CEO of Marathon Oil. He said last 
year:







 $100 oil is not justified by the physical demand in the 


 market.


Stephen Simon, senior vice president of Exxon said:




 The price of oil should be about $50-$55 a barrel.


Right now oil is flirting with $140 a barrel.

Let me say, when Exxon is going to the bank with our money to make a 
deposit, they have to be happy. But they are not using that money to 
invest in new production. In 2007, they used $31 billion of profit to 
buy back their stock and only $15 billion to invest in new drilling. 
They used twice as much money to buy back their stock in the stock 
market as they did to explore for new oil.

From the New Jersey Star Ledger:




 Experts, including the former head of Exxon Mobil, say 


 financial speculation in the energy markets has grown so much 


 over the last 30 years it now adds 20 to 30 percent or more 


 to the price of a barrel of oil.


A man named Fidel Gheit, who testified before the Energy Committee, 
has worked for 30 years with Oppenheimer Company. He is the senior 
energy person at Oppenheimer. He says:




 There is absolutely no shortage of oil. I'm absolutely 


 convinced that oil prices shouldn't be a dime above $55 a 


 barrel. I call it the world's largest gambling hall . . . 


 It's open 24/7.


Unfortunately, it's totally unregulated. This is like a highway with 
no cops and no speed limit and everybody is going 120 miles an hour.

With that backdrop, here is what has happened to the amount of 
speculation in the commodities market. It has gone up, up, and up just 
exactly like the price of oil and gas.

The question is, should the Congress do nothing about this or should 
the Congress do something? If the answer is the Congress should do 
something, then what? My belief is we have a responsibility to do 
something. Many of my colleagues believe it as well. There is nothing 
wrong with speculation. Markets often work with speculators. But when 
speculation becomes excessive, there is something wrong because the 
market then doesn't work.

Will Rogers described this sort of thing 80 years ago. He described 
people buying things they will never get from people who never had it 
and making money on both sides of the transaction. I guess that is all 
right if the speculation is not doing something that damages the 
American economy or injures most American consumers. But these are not 
free markets. There is no free market. I hear all these folks talking 
about: You have a free market. What you really need is more production. 
Sink a few wells here and there.

But they are not even genuine about that, as I just described to you. 
They are not very interested in sinking wells off the coast of Florida, 
for example. Let me show that chart again. I know why, when the 
minority party put up their proposal, they didn't want to sink wells in 
the Eastern Gulf of Mexico, which offers a significant opportunity. One 
of their Members, one of their Senators, is concerned about drilling 
off of Florida, so they leave that off their list. I know why they 
don't want to suggest that we should be able to drill for oil off of 
Cuba. Spain has a lease to drill off of Cuba. Canada also has a lease. 
India has a lease to drill off of Cuba. I know why the minority isn't 
pushing to allow American companies to drill off of Cuba. President 
George W. Bush is the one who says we can't do that. So they don't want 
to talk about subjects that are uncomfortable. They just want to bleat 
about the issue of ''production'' from their standpoint.

Production means a number of things. Production means, yes, producing 
some more oil. The largest assessment in history of the lower 48 States 
of recoverable oil was made 2 months ago by the U.S. Geological Survey 
at my request. They studied what is called the Bakken shale in Montana 
and North Dakota. There is dramatic new drilling and a lot of 
additional production there right now. They concluded that 3.6 to 4.3 
billion barrels of recoverable oil, using today's technology, exists. I 
support drilling in the Bakken. We are drilling. We have some 70 to 80 
drilling rigs active in the Bakken shale right now. But we are going to 
vote at 5:30 on another question of production. Then I want to see who 
comes to the floor to talk about production in the future.

Do they really want to produce enough renewable energy to help us 
reduce our dependence on Saudi Arabia and Kuwait and Iraq and 
Venezuela? I hope so.

We have to get over this notion that the only kind of production that 
matters is sinking a well someplace. We could produce, and have been 
producing, billions of gallons of fuel for vehicles in farm fields. We 
are now up very close to 9 billion gallons, and we are headed much 
higher than that. We also can produce substantial electricity from 
wind, except that when we try to do anything other than increase the 
production tax credit by 12 months, the other side objects. Again, 
whether it is a production tax credit for wind or solar energy or other 
renewable energy sources, this Congress and this country ought to not 
just talk about 12 months. We ought to say: Here is where America is 
headed. We understand this is a serious problem. We believe we are 
going to produce substantial amounts of renewable energy. Other 
countries have done it.

Brazil is an example. We are going to do this in a way that allows 
all of us to understand we must be less dependent on foreign sources of 
oil.

We can do that. We went to the Moon in 9 years. Do you think we can't 
find a way to be less dependent on foreign oil? I believe we can. But 
we can't do it, if at 5:30 today the minority still objects to having 
hedge fund managers who make billions pay their fair share of taxes and 
objects to what we would use that money to pay for, and that is 
extending the renewable energy tax credits so that we become less 
dependent on foreign oil and produce more energy from renewable forms 
of energy. That is just a fact.

At 5:30 today we will have plenty of opportunity to see who really 
supports additional production. I hope, on a bipartisan basis, we might 
be joined by the minority and see if we can't put this country on a 
track to produce much more energy from renewable sources.

I yield the floor.