---
---

# EXTENDING UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
## `e91828432350edbb072c44a4c7d15e35`
`Mr. REED — 17 June 2008`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about the importance of 
extending unemployment insurance benefits to workers whose regular 
benefits ran out before they could get a new job.

As we know, the labor market is weak. The unemployment rate has 
jumped to 5.5 percent in April from 5 percent in March. That is an 
extraordinary jump. This is the largest single month spike in 22 years 
and the highest level in 3.5 years.

In addition, the Labor Department's alternative unemployment rate, a 
measure that includes people who want to work but who are discouraged 
from actively seeking employment because they cannot find full-time 
jobs, reached 9.7 percent in May. This latter statistic might be more 
accurate with what has actually happened in neighborhoods across 
America.

For Rhode Islanders, the situation is among the worst in the Nation. 
The number of unemployed Rhode Islanders has risen to approximately 
35,000, which has been trending upward and is the highest since June 
1994. Indeed, 6.1 percent are jobless right now, a figure which has 
remained unchanged over the past 2 months.

This is the fourth highest unemployment rate in the United States, 
and the highest rate in Rhode Island since August 1995, more than 12 
years ago. It is also critical to point out that almost half, 41 
percent of Rhode Islanders unemployed in January, February and March, 
exhausted their benefits, which is more than any other State in New 
England. Unfortunately, other economic indicators are equally 
discouraging. Economists think inflation is here to stay, and it is 
likely to get worse. We have received a very poor inflation number this 
morning which suggests that the forecasts of economists are sadly 
becoming true.

Food prices are high. Consumers are able to afford fewer groceries at 
the supermarket and restaurants are being squeezed by food costs. Food 
prices across the country spiked by more than 4 percent in 2007, the 
biggest jump in 17 years, and they are expected to escalate another 6 
percent this year, though some items, including eggs and milk, have 
gone up much more. So we are not talking about luxury items, we are 
talking about the basics to survive. They are getting more and more 
expensive as more and more people are not able to find adequate work.

The price of gasoline has risen 35 percent from a year ago, when it 
averaged approximately $3. In Rhode Island, it now costs $4.11, on 
average, for a gallon of regular unleaded, making it very difficult for 
working families simply to get to school, to get to their job, and to 
get around the State.

The gross domestic product, the Nation's total output of goods and 
services, the measure of the overall economic activity of the country, 
increased at a mere .9 percent in the first quarter of 2008, which is 
nearly the same as the fourth quarter of last year. This stagnant 
growth obviously is highly correlated with the rising unemployment.

In April, consumer credit borrowing rose $8.9 billion for the month 
to $2.56 trillion. This is significantly higher than economists 
forecast. This means increasingly that Americans are going to their 
credit cards to get by, and this is a timebomb ready to explode in our 
economy.

More American families are being overwhelmed by debt. More and more 
families are forced, because they do not have adequate jobs, adequate 
wages to face the rising cost of gasoline and food, to take out the 
plastic. That can only last a certain amount of time. This is a looming 
problem that we have to recognize.

Similarly, there is speculation that the impact of the foreclosure 
crisis will continue to spread. In my home State of Rhode Island, we 
have the highest foreclosure rate in New England. And the outlook is 
just as bleak. A recent Credit Suisse report noted that foreclosures 
could impact about 6.5 million loans by 2012, meaning that nearly 13 
percent of residential borrowers could be put out of their homes; 13 
percent of homeowners in America are facing the prospect within the 
next few years of losing their homes. That is a startling and 
unacceptable projection.

Given that the economic situation is significantly harsher now than 
the start of the last recession, the need to extend unemployment 
benefits is clear. In doing so, we can start to stimulate the economy. 
We have virtually no growth, we have a foreclosure crisis with 
escalating gasoline and food prices. If we want to get this country 
moving again, we have got to stimulate the economy. We tried with the 
rebates a few months ago; that has not proved effective. Unemployment 
insurance


benefits have a very high return on their investment. It generates 
approximately $1.64 in gross domestic product for every dollar we put 
in, and that makes sense.

Individuals receiving these benefits are going to go right to the 
store, they are going to fuel their cars, they are going to buy food, 
they are going to try to take care of their children. This money is 
going right back in the economy. It is going to stimulate 64 cents more 
than we invest.

I am disappointed that the administration has released a Statement of 
Administration Policy stating that it strongly opposes the bipartisan 
measure overwhelmingly passed by the House of Representatives last 
week.

I am disappointed that the minority is unwilling to enact this 
meaningful legislation before us today. This would make a positive 
difference for America. I think it is reckless and irresponsible. 
Unfortunately, it is characteristic of this administration that they 
would oppose unemployment benefits for Americans while they continue to 
exhort us to spend billions of dollars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The 
contrast could not be more stark and, I think, more condemning of this 
administration.

I believe we have to pass this legislation. We have to face it. And 
for my constituents in Rhode Island, it would be extremely useful.

According to the Center for Budget Policy Priorities, we have done 
this, we have extended benefits seven times over the past half century. 
They have provided much needed relief to workers. This is not something 
novel and unique. This is something we have done and we should do. We 
cannot afford to delay extending these benefits any longer. People are 
struggling throughout this Nation. It is our responsibility to respond 
to their needs, to give them a chance, to keep them afloat in a very 
stormy economic sea.

I urge the immediate passage of these unemployment benefits.

I yield the floor.