---
---

# SERGEANT LEA ROBERT MILLS BROOKSVILLE AVIATION BRANCH POST OFFICE
## `e91d575e74a983524ab5175d6cc25857`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 5 February 2007`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
support of my bill, H.R. 514, which will rename the aviation post 
office in Brooksville, FL, after Sergeant Lea Robert Mills.

Lea was a resident of my district in Masaryktown who gave his life 
for his country while serving in Iraq.

At 21 years old, Lea was proud to serve his fellow citizens, and even 
requested to be sent to Iraq.

After being inspired to volunteer for the military after the 
September 11 attacks, he felt it was his duty as a Marine to go where 
the mission was.

Lea told his father that the marines would give him the best 
opportunity to make a difference in people's lives.

He joined right after graduating from Hernando High School in 2002, 
and had just recently re-upped for a second stint with the Marines.

Tragically, he was killed by an lED explosion, leaving behind a young 
wife and a grieving family.

Sergeant Mills was a true patriot and a brave hero, and our community 
feels his loss immensely.

His dedication to his country and turning his ideals into actions are 
truly inspiring.

It is a sad truth that in a cynical world, we are surprised by 
courageous acts.

Learning about Lea from his family and friends helped me to have 
faith that not everyone is just trying to get by--some are trying to 
change the world for the better.

I hope that in renaming this post office, we will memorialize Lea's 
courage and never forget his sacrifice for this great Nation.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.