---
---

# None
## `e91de71971bd1445c13c6a89e1517a81`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 17 July 2007`

---

 Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, today I ask the Senate to join me 
in recognizing COL Paul James Sykes on the occasion of his retirement 
from the U.S. Air Force Reserve, USAFR. Since entering the Air Force in 
1975 with the 315th Military Airlift Wing, Charleston, SC, Colonel 
Sykes has remained a dedicated reservist for his entire career.

After being commissioned through the USAFR Officers Training Program 
at the Citadel in 1974, Second Lieutenant Sykes began his military 
career flying the C-141A Starlifter. Over his 16 years of flying the C-
141, Colonel Sykes held numerous squadron-level positions while 
supporting an array of humanitarian efforts and military operations 
worldwide.

In 1993, Major Sykes was selected to make the historic delivery of 
the first Globemaster III into Charleston AFB, SC, while accompanying 
the Chief of Staff of the Air Force. Additionally, Major Sykes played 
an integral role as a member of the initial Crew Operations Review Team 
which was responsible for significant technological and operational 
upgrades to the C-17.

As a distinguished reservist, Major Sykes was selected as the Deputy 
Commander of the 315th Operations Group after previously being named 
Squadron Operations Officer for the 300 Airlift Squadron only months 
before. In 2001, Lieutenant Colonel Sykes was critical in ensuring that 
over 1,500 Reserve personnel were adequately prepared for their call to 
duty after the attacks of September 11th.

Two years later, Colonel Sykes deployed to Rhein Main AB, Germany, 
where he was responsible for the daily launching of over 35 flight 
missions to move the more than 3,000 military personnel who were to 
support Operations Iraqi/Enduring Freedom. After returning from 
overseas in 2004, Colonel Sykes was selected as the Commander of the 
916th Air Refueling Wing at Seymour Johnson AFB, NC. As the Air Force 
Reserve Command's only wing in North Carolina, Colonel Sykes was 
charged to command over 950 reservists in support of the Air Force's 
global refueling mission.

During his tenure as Commander, the 916th Air Refueling Wing received 
numerous awards and scored in the top 3 percent of AFRC units in the 
Unit Compliance Inspection. Furthermore, the Wing was awarded the 
prestigious Air Force Outstanding Unit Award for its exceptional 
efforts and volunteer service.

A devoted patriot, Colonel Sykes formally retires on July 27, 2007, 
as a Command pilot with over 9,100 military flying hours. As a 
decorated leader, his commitment to our country will be forever marked 
by his extraordinary vision and endless sacrifice. Throughout his 
entire career and to this day, Colonel Sykes has served as a model 
airman. Along with his wife Patricia, who has stood next to Colonel 
Sykes with unwavering loyalty and shared sacrifice but comforted by the 
humbling gift of serving one's country, I thank him for his service and 
wish him the very best in his retirement. I ask that the Senate join me 
in honoring him for his lifelong career of service.
