# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `e92c151296a2e8977dc1d6c9cbf7861e`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 6 February 2008`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to share some thoughts on 
the FISA legislation. It is critically important, and we need to pass 
the Intelligence Committee bill.

I will first say, in response to my able colleague from Illinois, 
that General Hayden's comments in which he indicated three people had 
been subjected to waterboard torture are something we ought to think 
about. First, I am glad, as he said and has been repeated, 
waterboarding was only used three times early on after 9/11 against 
some of the most dangerous people we have ever dealt with.

As a result of the debate and discussion about that, we had an 
amendment on the floor of the Senate, which Senator Kennedy offered to 
the Military Commissions Act in 2006, to prohibit waterboarding. It 
failed 46 to 53. We have a statute that does prohibit torture--Congress 
passed it overwhelmingly and it was supported by Senators Kennedy, 
Leahy, Biden, and others--that defined torture as infliction of severe 
physical or mental pain or suffering. I am glad we are no longer 
utilizing waterboarding. I hope we never have to do it again.

I just want to say to my colleagues, be careful how you portray the 
United States around the world.

Mr. Goldsmith, who has been quoted here and previously testified 
before our committee, has written a book. He said this war on terror 
has been the most lawyered war in the history of the Republic. Lawyers 
have been involved in everything. Great care has been given to ensure 
the law was followed. To compare waterboarding of 3 individuals to what 
was done to American prisoners by the Japanese in World War II is just 
unthinkable. To date, not a single prisoner whom we have captured in 
the War on Terror has died, to my knowledge, in American custody--maybe 
or one or two from some disease, but certainly not from abuse.

I just finished reading the book ''Hells Guest'' by Mr. Glenn Frazier 
from Alabama, a Bataan Death March survivor. About 90 percent of those 
prisoners died. They starved to death. They were beaten on a regular 
basis and abused in the most horrible way.

To even compare what was done to American soldiers wearing a uniform 
lawfully being a combatant to what has been done to a few people 
without any physical or permanent injuries is not fair. It is part of a 
rhetoric designed for political consumption at home that has 
embarrassed our country around the world and led decent people around 
the world to believe our military is out of control and we are 
systematically abusing and torturing prisoners when it is not so. We 
ought to be ashamed of ourselves to go on again and again about it.

We continue to be confused. Our country faces very real dangers. 
Terrorists are determined to damage this country. It is not just talk. 
We know it is true. They have done it before. They have attacked us 
around the world. They attacked us repeatedly before 9/11, and they 
desire to destroy our country.

Our administration made a decision after 9/11 that we could not treat 
these kinds of military attacks, designed to destroy our country by 
organized foreign forces, as normal law enforcement. I was a former 
Federal prosecutor. In a criminal prosecution, you try to catch people 
after they have committed the crime. But these acts are so horrible 
that the nature of them is such that they are acts of warfare and not 
crimes, and they need to be treated in that fashion. We remain somewhat 
confused about it. So the old policy meant you would investigate after 
the crime was committed. It was basically a stated or implicit policy 
of the Clinton administration. We cannot return to that kind of 
strategy.

One of the most important legal powers and authorities we have to 
defend America is the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. It has 
played a key role in preventing subsequent attacks on U.S. soil for the 
last 6 years. We are dealing with very real, very imminent threats, and 
we must continue to assist the fabulous military and intelligence 
personnel who are working this very moment long hours to protect our 
Nation.

I have visited our National Security Agency and met with the people 
who gather the intelligence under this act. They love America. These 
are not people who are trying to harm our country and deny us our 
liberties. They are sterling individuals who carefully follow the rules 
we give them. They follow the rules. They say they cannot continue 
effectively to do their job unless we pass this legislation. They 
cannot continue to do what they need to do.

The terrorists waging war against our country do not fight according 
to the rules of warfare, international law, moral standards, or basic 
humanity. They have even, in recent days, apparently used mentally ill 
women as suicide bombers, setting off bombs that have resulted in the 
deaths of other people, as well as the poor people who had the bombs 
strapped to them.

So, historically, we have provided the protections of the Geneva 
Conventions only to those whose conduct falls within the rules of war, 
those who fight under a flag of a nation, who wear uniforms against 
other organized military units. However, under a twisted rationale, 
predicated on the belief by some that we are not fighting a real war, 
we have given more rights to these individuals, who flatly reject any 
rule of war, than we have provided to legitimate prisoners of war who 
have followed the rules of war. We have done that in a number of 
different instances--it is sort of amazing to me--including providing 
them with habeas corpus relief to go to Federal court. These are not 
traditional prisoners of war, but prisoners who are unlawful enemy 
combatants. So we have endangered, sometimes I really believe, not only 
our troops, who put themselves in harm's way--and are in harm's way 
right now--to carry out the policies we gave them, but innocent 
Americans here at home.

We have to keep this threat in the forefront of our minds. These are 
individuals dead set on the destruction of our country at any cost. 
There is nothing they will not do.

Let me state that the FISA law should be made permanent. It should 
not merely be extended with another sunset provision. It is a 
fallacious argument to claim we cannot revisit a law unless there is 
some sunset when it ends. As Members of this Congress, it is incumbent 
upon us to continually review legislation we pass to ensure that the 
laws are accomplishing the goals set forth and that no unintended 
consequences occur. There is no sound reason to pass critical 
legislation such as the Protect America Act and slap an expiration date 
on it.

Fighting the war on terror is a long-term enterprise that requires 
long-term institutional changes. As the Vice President said in a recent 
speech:




 The challenge to the country has not expired over the last 


 six months. It won't expire any time soon, and we should not 


 write laws that pretend otherwise.


The Intelligence Committee bill is a collaborative, bipartisan 
compromise that was crafted in consultation with members of the 
Intelligence Committee, the Director of National Intelligence, the 
Department of Justice, and the intelligence community after months of 
negotiation and review of highly sensitive information, most of which 
was classified, secret, about the current surveillance procedures and 
how they were being used by the Government to obtain critical national 
security information. We cannot overstress that the committee most 
intimately involved with this process and the electronic measures being 
utilized voted their bill out by an overwhelmingly bipartisan 13-to-2 
vote.

Remember, it has been over 6 years 4 months since the terrible 
attacks of September 11, and we may be most thankful that not one 
attack has been carried out on our soil since that day. As we move 
further from that dreadful day, I fear our memories have begun to fade. 
Otherwise, there is no sound justification for doing anything other 
than reauthorizing the Protect America Act, which would allow the 
intelligence community to simply continue, uninterrupted, their work 
which has been protecting this Nation and can continue to protect it in 
the future.

After the intelligence Committee passed a bill, the Senate Judiciary 
Committee, of which I am a member, got involved and produced a partisan 
bill. We already voted to table the partisan Judiciary substitute, and 
we debating the bipartisan Intelligence Committee bill. Let me point 
out, however, something that happened in the Judiciary Committee. The 
bill produced by


the committee was given very little process during one committee 
meeting where 10 Democratic amendments were accepted along a strict 
party-line vote, and the bill itself, ultimately, was voted out with 
only Democratic support. No Republican voted for it. It was a purely 
partisan bill.


Strikingly, the one vote that garnered bipartisan consideration was 
against an amendment that was offered by Senator Feingold to strip the 
retroactive liability protections found in section 2 of the 
Intelligence bill.

We had a discussion and vote on whether the liability protections to 
keep the companies that helped us and responded to Government 
requests--whether they should be sued for doing so--should be stripped 
from the bill. We voted in the Judiciary Committee, 12 to 7, to follow 
the recommendation of the Intelligence Committee bill that they passed 
13 to 2, and keep the limited liability protections. So it was a 12-to-
7 vote to defeat the Feingold amendment that would have removed those 
liability protections.

Directly after that vote, however--it was curious how it all 
happened--but directly after that vote, Chairman Leahy moved to report 
only Title I of the Judiciary substitute bill out of Committee. When 
that passed, that effectively stripped the liability protection 
provisions the committee had just voted to keep.

The point is that the Democratic-controlled Judiciary Committee, when 
voting directly on removing retroactive liability, voted 12 to 7 to 
keep it. But by the time we passed out the Judiciary Committee's 
version of the bill, we had taken it out. I'm not sure people fully 
understand how that occurred, but it certainly was an odd thing that it 
passed out of committee without liability protection, when we 
specifically voted to keep that language in the overall bill.

Now, the main area of disagreement is over this important question 
that will be coming up, I understand, in the amendment offered by 
Senator Dodd, amendment No. 3907--and a Specter-Whitehouse amendment 
that will allow substitution--which will, in effect, allow litigation 
to continue against telecom companies that responded to the requests of 
the Attorney General of the United States, certified by the President. 
So our disagreement is whether we should provide these good corporate 
citizens who cooperated with a formal written request by the Attorney 
General of the United States, certified by the duly-elected President 
of the United States, to provide information for a surveillance program 
implemented shortly after the attacks on September 11--and at that 
point in time, we did not know how many terrorist cells there were in 
the country and what plans they may have had.

Now, the nature of the program is highly classified, but after an 
uproar of complaints, the procedures were studied carefully by 
Congress, and we reacted by giving approval to the program in passing 
the Protect America Act overwhelmingly last August. I did not want to 
be too lighthearted about it, but I remember all the brouhaha that this 
program was somehow wrong and had to be eliminated, and people made all 
these unsubstantiated allegations. But after we went in great depth, we 
found, as Mr. Goldsmith said, that the lawyers have been on top of this 
since day one. It was a carefully constructed program. A court opinion 
issues last spring caused us to not be able to continue the way it was 
being done, and the Intelligence community asked us for legislation so 
it could continue. The Congress passed the Protect America Act this 
summer, but it was a short-term bill that lasted only 6 months.

All I would want to say is, nobody apologized to President Bush or 
the Attorney General of the United States or the people at the National 
Security Agency for all the bad things they said about them. After 
having studied what they did, we concluded it is constitutional and 
legal and proper and necessary, and we actually passed a law to 
authorize it to continue.

But still, there have been over 30 lawsuits now filed against telecom 
providers for their alleged participation in the terrorist surveillance 
program--30 lawsuits. Analysis of these lawsuits leads only to the 
conclusion that the plaintiffs are substituting speculation and a 
fevered brow for fact and are ignoring the dangerous consequences these 
lawsuits can have on our national security.

I do not know who is actually filing these lawsuits. I will just say 
this, parenthetically: Last October, before the last election, Lancet 
magazine produced a report--a medical magazine in England--that said 
500,000 to 700,000 Iraqis were killed by the American military in Iraq. 
And ABC, CBS, and our Democratic colleagues all raised cane that, 
unbelievably, we would kill this many people. After the election was 
over--and by the way, the guy who wrote the report said he wanted to be 
sure it came out before the election--we learned some things about it.

In a fabulous article in the National Journal, an unbiased magazine, 
they detailed the fraudulence of that article, and pointed out that 
even an antiwar group said, at most, it was 50,000, not 500,000 or 
700,000. And where did they find out the money for the Lancet article 
came from? George Soros, and the MoveOn.Org crowd. The ''blame America 
first'' crowd. Well, I don't know who is actually funding these 
lawsuits. We ought to ask some questions about it. Certainly there is 
no indication that anybody's liberties have been impacted adversely.


If these suits are allowed to continue, we face a number of problems. 
The sources and methods relied on by our intelligence community to 
conduct surveillance are highly classified, and if these lawsuits are 
allowed to proceed, even allowing for the Government to be substituted 
for the telecom companies, we run the risk of exposing the things our 
enemies really want: classified national security information. Make no 
mistake, if forced to defend themselves against lawsuits brought about 
because they cooperated with a government request certified to be 
legal, companies will certainly hesitate or refuse outright to 
cooperate in the future. Even where substitution by the Government is 
an option, we would be putting national security decisions in the hands 
of corporate counsels in the future whose duties--and their first 
responsibilities--extend to the stockholders of their company, and not 
the national security.

If we ask a company to help us, do we want all the lawyers in that 
company to say: Wait a minute. The last time we worked with you 
government we got sued, and we are going to review all of this because 
some court may hold this--or George Soros may fund some lawsuit and tie 
us up in court. We don't think we want to help. I think they would 
naturally take that tack in the future to resist cooperation.

During floor debate in December, the distinguished chairman of the 
Intelligence Committee, our Democratic colleague Senator Rockefeller, 
said this. This is what he said about the matter:




 Our collective judgment--


and he is talking about the Intel Committee members--




 Our collective judgment on the Intelligence Committee is 


 that the burden of the debate about the President's authority 


 should not fall on the telecommunications companies--


In other words, the debate about whether the President had authority 
to do this shouldn't fall on the telecommunications counsels--



 because they responded to the representations by Government 


 officials at the highest levels that the program had been 


 authorized by the President and determined to be lawful and 


 received requests, compulsions to carry it out. Companies 


 participated at great risk of exposure and financial ruin for 


 one reason, and one reason only: in order to help identify 


 terrorists and prevent follow-on terrorist attacks. They 


 should not be penalized for their willingness to heed the 


 call during a time of national emergency.


Senator Rockefeller said that.

The ranking member of the Judiciary Committee who favors substitution 
has stated this, flat out:




 The telephone companies have acted as good citizens.


Certainly they have. In many instances, the Government must seek 
assistance from the private sector and private individuals to help 
protect our national security and even local security in our 
communities. In order for this practice to continue, we must allow them 
to rely on assurances that the assistance they provide is not only 
legal but essential to protect our national security without fear that 
they will have their names dragged through


the mud by protracted litigation initiated by the ''blame America 
first'' crowd which subscribes to wild theories about Government 
conspiracies to deny people their liberty. They are forgetting the 
safety of America, and they are ignoring sound legal precedent.

Some in this body sincerely believe that liability protection is not 
needed if these companies did nothing wrong, they say. Well, this is 
faulty reasoning since either allowing the lawsuits to proceed or 
substituting the Government will still force them to be a party to 
lawsuits that run the risk of exposing national security information or 
doing irreversible financial and reputational damage to companies 
innocent of any wrongdoing. We are putting these companies in harm's 
way when they, bound by a sense of patriotism and civic responsibility, 
participate in a government program that was certified to be legal by 
the Attorney General of the United States and the President of the 
United States.

If the Government is substituted--in accordance with one of the 
theories that has been offered--in the place of a particular company, 
it will most certainly assert the state secrets privilege, leaving, in 
effect, the company virtually impotent when it comes to mounting a 
defense and showing what their legitimate actions were. Due to the 
nature of this state secrets privilege, a company will be forbidden 
from making their case and will be left without the ability to even 
confirm or deny their participation in the program. We should applaud 
the actions of these citizens, not stab them in the back by suing them 
for their actions.

To refresh everyone's memory, the Intelligence Committee, after 
months of negotiation in highly classified settings, rejected an 
amendment to strip liability protection from the bill for these 
companies by a vote of 12 to 3. It then passed the bill out in toto by 
a bipartisan vote of 13 to 2, protecting these companies from lawsuits.

The Judiciary Committee, on the other hand, had one markup after less 
than 2 weeks of reviewing the Intelligence Committee's legislation, and 
rejected an amendment specifically that would have denied liability 
protection by a vote of 12 to 7. So we voted not to allow them to be 
sued either. Furthermore, the Judiciary Committee rejected an amendment 
to allow the Government to be substituted for the plaintiffs by a vote 
of 13 to 5. We rejected substitution too, although the liability 
protections were ultimately removed from the bill the Judiciary 
Committee passed.

Even if the Government is substituted, plaintiffs in litigation will 
seek discovery, they will file depositions and ask for interrogatories 
and motions to produce. They will seek trade secrets and highly 
classified technologies. Companies would still face many litigation 
burdens. They would be--we would be subjecting them to harm, not only 
from consumer backlash, but their international business partners will 
be pressured around the world.

Under the limited liability protections incorporated in the Intel 
bill, plaintiffs seeking to question the Government will have their day 
in court as it only protects good corporate citizens from civil suit. 
So the liability protections in this bill do not preclude lawsuits 
against the Federal Government from going forward. In fact, there are 
at least seven lawsuits currently pending against the Government that 
will proceed against the Government or Government officials. This was 
accepted by the Intelligence Committee. Some wanted to say you couldn't 
sue the Government for these activities also, but the Intel Committee 
reached an agreement, an overwhelmingly bipartisan agreement, that 
would allow those lawsuits to proceed.

The companies that helped the Government did so to help protect us 
from further attack, and valuable information has been gathered with 
their help. I have been out to the National Security Agency. I have 
talked with the people. I know they scrupulously follow the rules we 
give them, and I know they have gained great, valuable information 
through this program, and I know they lost very valuable information 
when the program had to be stopped. This information has saved 
undoubtedly countless American lives by enabling our intelligence 
community to thwart attacks.

Some have said this amounts to amnesty, but that couldn't be further 
from the truth. Amnesty is an act of forgiveness for criminal offenses, 
such as granting citizenship to people who broke the law to come into 
our country illegally. The companies were operating under a 
certification of legality in a time of national danger doing what they 
could as Americans to follow the law and prevent future attacks. At no 
point during their participation were their actions illegal. For 
Heaven's sake. To grant liability protection is to adhere to that great 
Anglo-American legal tradition for hundreds of years that when called 
upon by a law officer, with apparent legal authority, wearing a 
uniform, out on the street, a citizen is not to be held legally liable 
if, in responding to the officer, the officer was wrong. That is all we 
are talking about. That is a fundamental, historical, legal principle. 
The only question--the legal question has always been simply this: 
whether the citizen was responding to a legitimate request by a 
government law officer, a police officer to chase a bad guy. Was the 
citizen acting reasonably in believing this was a legitimate law 
enforcement request and he was helping by being a good citizen. That is 
the test. If he participated knowingly with somebody acting illegally, 
then that citizen could be liable. Certainly certification by the 
Attorney General and the President of the United States in written 
documents suffices as a legitimate request.

The bottom line is, we do not need to pass legislation that panders 
to the extreme interest groups in America who find fault in everything 
our people do, our law enforcement and intelligence officers, and that 
fosters a fundamental mistrust of those officials who are working daily 
to serve all of us. The burden should not fall on the shoulders of good 
corporate citizens who are acting patriotically to help save lives and 
protect our country.

I urge my colleagues to vote to support the Intel Committee bill, a 
carefully crafted, carefully studied, bipartisan bill. I also urge my 
colleagues to support the liability protections in the Intelligence 
Committee legislation and a vote against any amendments that attempt to 
strip these provisions or in any way alter the carefully structured, 
limited provisions of the bill.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.