# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2009
## `e92e3825e8151ad994532807da056310`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER â€” 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 434 provides for consideration of H.R. 
2346, the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009. No Member of 
Congress takes today's vote lightly. In my two terms in Congress, I've 
had many late nights thinking about our troops who protect all us 
around the globe--ones who I have met, ones from my district, and 
others--thinking about how to bring them home safely and responsibly.

Today, we vote to fund them and their efforts in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. It is not a perfect bill, and it is not the silver bullet 
which will end the wars within the next year. But it is a responsible 
plan to support our servicemen and -women and assist them as much as 
possible.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot fully understand the next steps in Iraq and 
Afghanistan without looking at the steps our Nation has taken to get 
here.

In 2001, following the September 11 attacks, Congress authorized 
President Bush to take action against Afghanistan for harboring and 
enabling al Qaeda to attack us. We were greeted as liberators for the 
most part and even had Osama bin Laden cornered in the mountains of 
Tora Bora.

But in 2002 and 2003, President Bush and others changed the country's 
focus from the biggest threat to American security to a country which 
actually posed little threat--that being Iraq.

Ever since that moment, we have been playing catchup in both 
countries, trying to defeat insurgencies while promoting democracy and 
economic development, which are precarious at best. Even experts 
concede achieving these missions simultaneously is difficult.

Last November, Barack Obama and John McCain outlined two very 
different visions of our future involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan. In 
Iraq, President Obama's plan involved expeditiously transitioning 
authority to


the Iraqi Security Forces, promoting economic development, and removing 
combat troops within a year. This vision is very close to the plan I 
described to my voters when I was elected to my first term.

In Afghanistan, the plan involved broadening the international 
coalition, eradicating al Qaeda and the Taliban, empowering women, and 
providing an increase in troops, is what is provided for in this 
particular bill.

Knowing full well Barack Obama's military and diplomatic goals in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, more Americans voted for President Obama and the 
plans he outlined than they did for Senator McCain or his plans.

Over the course of the past few months, President Obama has put the 
pieces in place to keep his promise, putting a national security team 
in place--a bipartisan team at that--of Robert Gates, James Jones, and 
Hillary Rodham Clinton.

Today's bill is a plan laid out by the President and his bipartisan 
national security team that finally understands that victory will not 
be achieved by military might alone.

Many in the House today, on both sides of the aisle, have stated 
their opposition to this bill before the new President with his new 
ideas has even had a chance to implement his plan.

President Obama inherited an international mess. American voters 
chose President Obama and his plan, and it is time that Congress gave 
our troops the resources they need to complete their assignments.

In my opinion, there are three components to this bill. First: in 
Iraq, we provide funding for military operations, including $4.8 
billion for lightweight mine-resistant vehicles, or MRAPs, and $1.3 
billion for IED threat mitigation. The bill also provides $1 billion 
for economic development in Iraq.

These provisions are essential to President Obama in order to meet 
his intended date of August 31, 2010, to remove all combat troops from 
Iraq.

In Afghanistan, we require the President to objectively report to 
Congress on five critical areas in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Among 
these are questions of anticorruption efforts, independent security 
forces, and political consensus. We also provide $1.52 billion in 
international aid for development of that war-torn country.

Lastly, the bill focuses on our troops and domestic emergencies. We 
provide funding for H1N1 influenza. We also provide $470 million to 
address Mexican border violence and drug cartels. We also provide to 
our troops stop-loss payments in recognition of their additional 
participation in the wars in the Middle East. These troops who signed 
up to serve fell victim as part of a backdoor draft--and this bill 
justly repays them.

Mr. Speaker, today we will have an emotional debate about how our 
Nation moves forward in Iraq and Afghanistan. The way forward in Iraq 
and Afghanistan is to vote ''yes'' today. I urge my colleagues to vote 
''yes'' on the rule and the underlying bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.