---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e94508065f6eb8d44072133963233de3`
`Mr. COOPER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. COOPER. Mr. Speaker, I disapprove of the President's January 10 
decision to surge 20,000 new troops into Iraq. I urge my colleagues to 
support the resolution.

Mr. Speaker, although the President says that the 20,000 new troops 
constitute a change in his strategy, all I am seeing are a repeat of 
the same failed policies of the past. America has sent additional 
troops to Iraq before, several times, without result. America has tried 
to work with the Maliki government, and it has not been very 
successful.

Mr. Speaker, we have to admit that this approach is not working. The 
President himself has admitted that his patience is running out with 
the Maliki government. It is really just a question of whether Congress 
should try to force President Bush and Vice President Cheney to change 
course now or whether they will do it several months from now. I say 
that the time for change is now.

It is true that Congress has no business micromanaging a war. No one 
here in Congress is Commander in Chief. It is also true that we must 
not shirk from our responsibilities to support our brave men and women 
in uniform, and we need to support the brave Iraqis who have stood with 
us and the good people of the region, but we do deserve a better 
strategy. More of the same is just not good enough, either for our 
soldiers or for the good people of the region.

President Bush, we have to admit, has shown a distressing 
stubbornness regarding Iraq. Although former Secretary of Defense 
Donald Rumsfeld offered to resign twice due to his own embarrassment 
with his failures, President Bush refused to accept his resignation for 
years, and finally only accepted it the day after the last election. 
Colleagues on both sides of the aisle know that if the President had 
accepted that resignation earlier, not only would Pentagon policy have 
been different; the core of the war might well have been different.

I think that the President needs a nudge now, and this resolution 
will offer it. True, it is nonbinding, but that is a good thing. 
Congress is not cutting off money for the troops, nor should we. We are 
sending a message to the President.

Now, I will admit that it is a shame that we do have to do it this 
way; but on this issue, the President has refused to heed the advice of 
so many of his own top generals, of his own father, of the Iraq Study 
Group, of our few remaining allies, or of the leadership of this equal 
branch of government. It is also a shame that today in America there is 
a widespread fear that the President could even be establishing the 
preconditions for war with Iran. Regardless of that situation, I hope 
that this resolution will curb any reckless behavior.

Finally, why is a change in strategy necessary now? Iraq appears to 
be descending into a civil war that neither Congress nor the Pentagon 
predicted. Defense Secretary Gates has described no less than four 
separate conflicts going on in Iraq today. That has led stalwart 
Republicans like Senator John Warner, the former chairman of the Senate 
Armed Services Committee, to question whether the 2002 authorization to 
use force in Iraq is even still valid today. American influence in the 
region has substantially diminished, while the influence of Iran has 
increased. It is time for a change.

Mr. Speaker, I agree with the original judgment of CENTCOM commander 
General Abizaid who testified before Congress not long ago, and he 
said, ''I do not believe that more American troops right now is the 
solution to the problem. I believe that the troop levels need to stay 
where they are.''

General Abizaid went on to say, ''I met with every divisional 
commander, General Casey, the corps commander, General Dempsey, we all 
talked together. And I said, 'In your professional opinion, if we were 
to bring in more American troops now, does it add considerably to our 
ability to achieve success in Iraq?' And they all said no.'' That is 
quoting General Abizaid.

Mr. Speaker, I would have been more inclined to support the President 
if he had asked for a much larger number of troops or for a sacrifice 
on the part of all Americans who do not have a loved one in our 
military. Such proposals would have led me to believe that the 
President was considering a serious change in strategy, but the 
President has not recommended either.

Instead, he has consistently violated the so-called Powell doctrine 
by not waging war with an overwhelming military force, a clear 
objective, or a defined exit strategy. From the beginning of this 
conflict, we have skimped on the number of troops, the equipment for 
our soldiers, the commitment of our allies. It is simply too late to 
add on a few thousand more troops now.

Our brave troops and their families in the all-volunteer military 
have carried the entire burden of this war. Wall Street and Main Street 
have not been asked to help. Where are the war bonds to pay for this 
war? We have not even tried to pay for it. We have borrowed most of the 
money from nations like


China. Policies like that do not make the Nation more secure.

Mr. Speaker, in conclusion, Congress has already given the President 
more time to fight this war than it took to win World War II, more 
money than was spent in Korea and Vietnam, and the unfettered use of 
the finest military in history. We are spending more on our military 
than every other nation in the world combined, and yet we are bogged 
down in a Third World country embroiled in its own civil war. At this 
point in time, it is not unreasonable for Congress to say enough is 
enough. Voters certainly said so clearly in the last election.