# FEDERAL EMPLOYEES PAID PARENTAL LEAVE ACT OF 2008
## `e95e1300b04d4195e84e5e3e57f666a8`
`Mr. WAXMAN — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, there they go again, coming up with a 
gimmick because they don't want the underlying bill. If they don't want 
the underlying bill, let them vote no. But what they have offered 
instead is a motion to recommit promptly, which kills the bill. So I 
would urge all of my colleagues who believe that parents ought to be 
able to bond with their children and have a paid family leave on the 
birth of a child or the adoption of a newborn, that they vote against 
this motion to recommit.

Federal law is very clear. If you are behind in your child support 
payments, you can get your wages garnished. That means there is an 
automatic reduction in your paycheck to pay for the support of your 
children. The fact is that no one who is behind in childcare can get 
paid parental leave. The reason is their wages will already be 
garnished. That is why this amendment is a gimmick.

No amendment like this was offered in our committee. This was never 
brought up in our deliberations. In fact, the gentleman was very clear 
in his arguments for the motion to recommit. He is against the bill. He 
was against the bill in committee, and he is against the bill now.

Now, I think we ought to understand that if this were a serious 
amendment, it would have been a ''forthwith'' motion. But it is not. It 
is a ''promptly'' motion to kill the bill.

There are 400,000 civilian DOD employees around the Nation. They have 
been working overtime to protect our Nation, often serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. But what this motion says to them, and to all other hard-
working Federal employees, is you won't get any paid leave, and if you 
are sick and have used up your leave, you can't take the time to bond 
with your family.

It is wrong, it is anti-family, and I believe this motion to recommit 
should be defeated. It is like so many other motions to recommit that 
we have seen on this floor. When it is designed ''promptly,'' it sends 
the bill back to the committee, and those who didn't like it in 
committee will fight it some more. But if you are for this bill, vote 
against the motion to recommit and vote ''yes'' on final passage.

I would like to yield the balance of the time to the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Hoyer), our majority leader.