# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `e95fbfe4e6c9d9873d064297ef6ce98d`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, first of all, I wish to congratulate our 
Democratic leader for his bold and decisive leadership and his 
determination to bring our troops home from Iraq in an orderly, 
responsible, and safe way. Those who are disparaging him are engaged in 
nothing more than a ploy to change the focus of the debate.

Harry Reid is an effective and capable leader. What the American 
people and our soldiers in Iraq need is new leadership from the White 
House and a new policy in Iraq that requires the Iraqis to take 
responsibilities and our troops to begin to come home.

A timeline for the withdrawal of combat troops is the only realistic 
way to encourage the Iraqis to take responsibility for their future. 
The Bush administration supported deadlines for three Iraqi elections 
and for writing of the Constitution as part of its strategy to ensure 
that Iraqis would make essential decisions. Yet the administration 
remains emphatically opposed to any timeline for the withdrawal of our 
military. The administration should follow the logic of its past action 
and embrace, rather than reject, a timeline. It should stop defying the 
will of the American people who want to bring our troops home to the 
heroes' welcome they have earned.

The President is wrong to threaten to veto this legislation, he was 
wrong to get us into this war, wrong to conduct it so poorly, wrong to 
ignore the views of the American people, and wrong to accuse those of 
us who are working to change course as harming our troops. Now he is 
wrong to threaten to veto this bill, delaying funds and keeping our 
troops in a civil war with no end in sight to our commitment. Instead, 
President Bush should be listening to the American people and working 
with Congress to bring this tragic war to an end.

Instead of continuing to defy the will of the American people and 
Congress by threatening to veto the legislation, he should be putting 
the Iraqis on notice. He must make it clear to the Iraqi Government 
that it is time for them to take responsibility for their country and 
resolve their political differences. The American military will not 
police Iraq's civil war indefinitely. It is time to end the loss of 
American lives and to begin to bring our soldiers home. For the sake of 
our troops, we cannot repeat the mistakes of Vietnam and allow this to 
drag on long after the American people know it is a mistake.

We have Presidents who make mistakes. President Johnson was wrong in 
escalating in Vietnam. President Nixon was wrong to continue that 
escalation, and we saw the loss of 58,000 American lives. Presidents 
make mistakes.

This President has made this mistake. The American people were right 
in Vietnam and brought that war to an end, and the American people are 
right now. No one in the administration can tell the American people in 
good faith and in good conscience that we are making progress in Iraq. 
Iraq is sliding deeper into civil war, and our military cannot solve 
their problems. It is time the President listen to the Iraq Study 
Group, the Congress, and the American people and work with us to bring 
our troops home.

Mr. President, yesterday the United Nations issued a progress report 
on the progress of violence in Iraq. I ask unanimous consent that 
sections of that report be printed at the appropriate place in the 
Record.