---
---

# None
## `e960e484606e6f475955eab3fc043e9f`
`Mr. SHAYS — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Madam Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman yielding.

Today, we're here to consider a resolution about corruption in Iraq. 
Mr. Davis attempted to present an alternative to the resolution, but it 
was blocked by my Democratic colleagues. The Democratic version 
provides a one-sided view about corruption in Iraq and Department of 
State efforts to counter corruption. The other version by Mr. Davis 
accepted the Democratic points but also presented the rest of the 
story. Whatever happened to compromise and bipartisanship?

It never ceases to amaze me what my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle will do to get votes and keep the support of their base. We 
all know the Democratic base wants the United States to get out of 
Iraq; however, the Democrats have not been able to prevent President 
Bush from carrying out his new and winning strategy in Iraq, so they 
continue to try to find other means to undermine our efforts to 
stabilize Iraq.

For example, they've held hearings on Blackwater, the contractor 
accused of shooting into crowds of civilians. Although this oversight 
is justified and needed, my colleagues are using the results of this 
hearing as a tool to drive a wedge between the American people and the 
administration's efforts to stabilize Iraq.

Another example is the resolution condemning the Armenian genocide. 
The Democrats know full well, if this resolution passes the House, 
Turkey will take retaliatory steps against the United States. These 
steps could undermine our efforts in Iraq and our troop presence 
throughout the Middle East. In fact, Turkey has already begun the 
process and called their U.S. ambassador back to Turkey for 
consultation.

And now we have a resolution about corruption in Iraq. What a 
revelation! Yes, there is corruption in Middle Eastern countries. Yes, 
there has been corruption in Iraq. And yes, there continues to be 
corruption in a


postauthoritarian regime. The United States did not bring corruption to 
this country, nor will it end when we leave. Saddam Hussein and his 
bureaucratic henchmen were major contributors to that continued 
corruption. Just read the reports about the Oil-for-Food Program our 
committee conducted.

Is the Department of State remiss in their efforts to fight 
corruption in Iraq? They may well be. But countering long-standing 
corruption is not easy and will take some time. I believe we in the 
United States face some of the same problems.

I'm not asking for my Democratic colleagues to stop oversight 
ferreting out waste, fraud and abuse. What I am asking is for Democrats 
and Republicans to come together and work through the issue of Iraq and 
not use it as a wedge preventing the United States from assisting the 
Iraqis to establish a stable democratic regime that will not export 
terrorism.

Yes, there are those who believe Iraq is a lost cause. Senator Reid 
and Nancy Pelosi both believe we should withdraw our troops right away. 
But there are others who understand the international security 
consequences of leaving Iraq precipitously and believe we should 
withdraw our presence in a safe and responsible manner.

Therefore, I ask those who truly understand the consequences of 
undermining our efforts in Iraq to understand what my Democratic 
colleagues are doing. Sadly they are trying to drive a wedge between 
the American public and the administration efforts to be successful in 
Iraq. Please understand that attempts to undermine our efforts in Iraq 
undermine our troops and U.S. interests all over the globe.

