---
---

# IRAQ
## `e97ca85dcb0d09ffd6e58b3b22f377c0`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise to speak against the measure 
introduced by Senator Feingold.

It has been only a year since GEN David Petraeus arrived in Baghdad 
and took command of American forces in Iraq. But in these brief 12 
months, he and the American and coalition troops under his command have 
brought about a tectonic shift in Iraq that has altered the course of 
the war there and, with it, the future of at least two great nations--
Iraq and the United States of America--and the lives of hundreds of 
millions of people in those two nations and so many others threatened 
by violent jihadist terrorists in the Middle East and beyond.

When the surge first began a year ago, many doubted that the violence 
then raging in Iraq could be brought under control. Even as American 
troops began implementing this bold new counterinsurgency strategy, 
some opponents of the war inside and outside of Congress declared that 
the war in Iraq was already ''lost,'' that the surge had already been 
''tried and failed,'' and that it mattered more, frankly, that we get 
out of Iraq than that we succeed in Iraq.

They could not have been more wrong. Thanks to the surge, the bravery 
and skill of American and Iraqi troops and the will of the Iraqi people 
to be free from terrorists, conditions on the ground in Iraq have been 
totally transformed from those of a year ago.

A year ago, al-Qaida in Iraq was entrenched, in control of, 
exercising murderous control in Anbar Province and Baghdad. Now those 
evil forces of Islamist extremism are facing their single greatest and 
most humiliating defeat since 2001.

This is not just my opinion. It is a matter of fact. In Baghdad, a 
fact: sectarian killings are down 95 percent in the last year; suicide 
bombings are down nearly 70 percent; IED attacks have been cut nearly 
in half.

In the face of those extraordinary improvements in Iraq--and many 
more I will speak of in a moment in the social and political and 
economic life of that great country--however, antiwar forces here in 
America have reacted not with sighs of relief and gratitude but, 
instead, by doing everything in their power to downplay or diminish our 
hard-won gains in Iraq.

Rather than admit the possibility that they had been wrong about the 
surge and about the capability of reestablishing security in Iraq, 
they, instead, reached for another rationale for retreat. What they 
argued was the lack of political progress in Iraq and, therefore, that 
the surge had failed.

But this argument has also now been defeated by facts on the ground 
in Iraq.

In the first place, the Iraqi people have taken over their local and 
provincial governments in a grassroots up democratic revolution. At the 
national level, a response is occurring. It took too long, but it is 
now significant. Benchmark legislation has surged forward in the Iraqi 
Parliament. The budget law, passed; the debaathification law, passed; 
the provincial powers and election law, passed; the amnesty law, 
passed.

Thanks to the surge, the Sunni Arabs, who once constituted the core 
of the insurgency, have now risen, because we stood by them, to join 
with us


and go ahead on their own to fight against al-Qaida and put al-Qaida--
the same al-Qaida that attacked us on 9-11-01--on the run.

Thanks to the surge, the Shiites, who had turned in desperation to 
militias and death squads for protection from al-Qaida and Iranian-
backed extremists, are now rejecting those militias, death squads, and 
extremists. They want a better, more peaceful life for themselves and 
their families. And the American-led surge has put that within their 
reach.

Last week, Moqtada al-Sadr announced he is extending his unilateral 
cease-fire. He did not do this as a favor to the United States of 
America or the Maliki Government in Baghdad. He did it because in Iraq 
today, thanks to the surge, and all that has been part of it, the rules 
of the game have changed. Violence and extremism are no longer the 
clear path to power in Iraq. In fact, they are becoming the path to 
political oblivion in Iraq. The people of Iraq want peace and stability 
and hope.

What then has been the reaction of antiwar groups here at home to 
these enormous achievements in Iraq? Are they now ready to admit they 
were wrong about the surge? Even if they were opposed to the war in 
Iraq in the first place, are they now ready to acknowledge that we are 
there, we are succeeding, and it would be wrong and hurtful to the 
United States for Congress to force a retreat now that would, in 
Churchill's terms, ''snatch defeat from the jaws of victory''?


To judge by the resolution now before us, the answer to that question 
is no. On the contrary, even as the facts on the ground have changed so 
much for the better, the resolution before us offers the same familiar 
prescription for retreat and surrender--ordered by Congress, not by our 
military leaders in the field or here at home--and it orders that, no 
matter what the consequences for the freedom of the Iraqi people, the 
future of the Islamic world, and the future national security of the 
United States of America.

Some claim the war in Iraq is a distraction from the ''real'' war on 
terror. Al-Qaida disagrees. And so do I. Al-Qaida's leadership has 
repeatedly made clear they consider Iraq to be the central front of 
their campaign against us and most of the rest of the civilized world. 
According to our intelligence agencies, al-Qaida in Iraq remains al-
Qaida's most visible and capable affiliate worldwide and the only one 
known to have expressed a desire to attack the American homeland--us 
here at home.

I know there are some who hear these arguments, watch what is 
happening, and say: Oh, no. The sponsors of this legislation certainly 
understand exactly how much political and military progress we are 
making against al-Qaida and Iranian-backed extremists in Iraq and how 
much is riding on the line there for America and most of the rest of 
the civilized world faced by this threat of violent jihadist terrorism. 
But this argument goes that the sponsors of this kind of resolution 
feel compelled to offer it to show antiwar groups in the United States 
that they have not forgotten them.

I refuse to believe that. I refuse to believe--I do not believe it--
that my colleagues would so trifle with the honor of American soldiers 
who have served and are serving in Iraq--too many of whom have given 
their lives in that service--or they would play such a political game 
with our national security. I respect my colleagues too much to take 
this legislation as anything other than what it says. It orders a 
retreat within 120 days.

It actually imposes so-called caveats on American forces after that 
120 days, which are exactly the kind of caveats, limitations, on what 
they can do that we are now arguing with our European allies to stop in 
Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, some of our NATO allies are there, but 
they can only do certain things. They cannot enter into battle, et 
cetera. They cannot go out into the field with the Afghani National 
Army. We are saying you cannot fight a war that way.

Listen to what one section of this matter before us offered by the 
Senator from Wisconsin says. Our troops, after the 120 days, can 
provide training to members of the Iraqi Security Forces ''provided 
that such training does not involve members of the United States Armed 
Forces taking part in combat operations or being embedded with Iraqi 
forces.''

That is a caveat, a limitation, exactly what we are arguing with our 
European allies to stop doing in Afghanistan.

The fact is, the legislation, this measure now before this Chamber, 
flies in the face of the recommendations of our proud and tested 
commanders on the ground in Iraq. If enacted, it would unravel all the 
hard-won gains our troops have made in the past year. It would hand 
victory to the suicide bombers and fanatics who are now on the run. It 
would betray the millions of Iraqis who are standing with us today 
because they desire a better, freer life for themselves and their 
children. And it would endanger the lives of and hopes of hundreds of 
millions more who live in the Middle East and throughout the Islamic 
world who yearn for a life of peace and justice, not a life of 
extremism, death, and primitivism that al-Qaida offers them.

I wish to close, if I may, with a word directed to my colleagues on 
this side of the aisle, the Democratic Members of this Senate. I have 
thought a lot about this war, and I cannot help but wonder, in a moment 
such as this, what some of the political heroes of my youth, who were 
Democrats, would think if they were here and could see and listen to 
this debate and read this resolution.

I think of President Kennedy, who declared:




 We shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, 


 support any friend, oppose any foe, in order to assure the 


 survival and the success of liberty.


In my opinion, that is exactly what we are doing in Iraq today.

I ask my colleagues: Do these words have meaning, have significance 
or are these just words?

I think of President Harry Truman, who proclaimed, at the outset of 
the Cold War:




 It must be the policy of the United States to support free 


 peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed 


 minorities or by outside pressures.


Are these too just words? Isn't that exactly what is happening in 
Iraq today? The people of Iraq, liberated from the terrible 
dictatorship of Saddam Hussein, hoping to secure a better future for 
themselves, now, with our assistance and encouragement, ''are resisting 
attempted subjugation by armed minorities''--read here: al-Qaida--''or 
by outside pressures''--read here: Iran. Are these just words? I hope 
not. I do not believe they are.

There was a time when these were not just words, but they were the 
convictions that lay at the heart of the Democratic Party's foreign and 
national security policy.

The legislation now before this Chamber, if implemented, would not, 
in my opinion, only betray our friends in the Middle East, it would not 
only betray America's own vital national interests against our 
deadliest enemies, al-Qaida and Iran, it would also betray the best 
ideals of the Democratic Party that I joined decades ago.

They were strong and liberal ideals, and I use those words 
intentionally. Presidents Roosevelt, Truman, and Kennedy, great 
Democratic Senators such as Hubert Humphrey and ''Scoop'' Jackson, 
believed that the party stood for being liberal at home and liberal 
abroad. What did that mean? Liberal in the classic sense of the term 
''freedom,'' which is what America is all about: the self-evident truth 
that we are all endowed by our Creator with the rights to life and 
liberty.

So I wish to appeal particularly today to my Democratic colleagues in 
the Senate to reject this resolution, and in that sense to return to 
what I believe are the strongest, proudest, most purposed moments of 
the history of the Democratic Party in recent decades on matters of 
foreign and national security policy.

In sum, a year ago, the Bush administration acknowledged its mistakes 
in Iraq and changed course there. It is now time for opponents of the 
war and the surge to do the same. It is time for them to admit that the 
surge has worked and that America's security and freedom are on the 
line in Iraq today, that we are winning there, and it would be a 
disastrous mistake to impose the policies ordered by this resolution, 
this amendment, which would deprive our brave American men and women in 
uniform and the brave soldiers of other countries, including Iraq,


of the victory that they are winning now for the people of Iraq, the 
people of America, and the cause of freedom, which is America's cause.

I implore my colleagues, vote against this resolution.

I thank the Chair and I yield the floor.