---
---

# IN HONOR OF ALEX MISTRI
## `e97d25bf76146b4223a564063508b6f7`
`Mr. GALLEGLY — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. GALLEGLY. Madam Speaker, I rise in honor of Alex Mistri, a former 
U.S. House of Representatives staffer who left the legislative branch 
to serve with honor and distinction as President Bush's Special 
Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs.

I have known many White House legislative liaisons in my 22 years as 
a U.S. Representative. Of all those who have served the four presidents 
I have worked with, Alex Mistri stands out as the most professional, 
dedicated and skilled.

Alex recently left the White House to work for the State Department 
at our embassy in Baghdad. He is joined there by his wife, Amy McKennis 
Mistri. I have no doubt Alex will be an asset to both our government 
and the Iraqi people.

Alex began his service as Special Assistant for Legislative Affairs 
to the President in February 2005. As one of the President's principal 
liaisons to the House, Alex's primary responsibility was to develop, 
coordinate and execute White House strategy on legislative issues. Alex 
specialized in issues related to national security, homeland security, 
international affairs and tax policy. As a senior member of the 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and Foreign Affairs, I 
developed a very strong and productive working relationship with Alex.

Part of Alex's effectiveness, no doubt, arose from his familiarity 
with congressional procedures. Prior to his service in the White House, 
Alex served as chief of staff for Congressman Bill Shuster. In that 
role, Alex was the congressman's chief political and legislative 
advisor with daily responsibility for the management of the office.

From the mid-'90s until taking his position as Congressman Shuster's 
chief of staff, Alex worked as legislative director to Congressman 
Robin Hayes, legislative assistant to Senator Lauch Faircloth, and 
press aide to Senator Alfonse D'Amato.

Madam Speaker, I know my colleagues join me in thanking Alex for many 
years of laudable service to the House, Senate and administration, and 
in wishing him great success in Iraq.
