---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `e987548e56e7625cc8326c0846a887dd`
`Mr. BIDEN — 22 June 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, two of the greatest challenges we face 
today are how to address the needs of postconflict countries, and 
countries that are suffering from large-scale natural disasters. These 
are critical issues, and ones that we cannot afford to get wrong, for 
the sake of the people living in those nations, and for the sake of our 
own security.

On the post-conflict front, a recent commission organized by the 
Center for Strategic and International Studies and the Association of 
the U.S. Army found, to no one's surprise, that ''failed states 
matter--for national security as well as for humanitarian reasons. If 
left to their own devices, such states can become sanctuaries for 
terrorist networks, organized crime and drug traffickers, as well as 
posing grave humanitarian challenges and threats to regional 
stability.''

Currently, the most obvious case in point is the reconstruction of 
Iraq. In addition to Iraq, unfortunately, we can talk about many other 
states that are either unstable, or are tenuously recovering from past 
conflicts including Afghanistan, East Timor, Kosovo, Haiti, and the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.

Earthquakes, floods, drought and landslides often have the most dire 
impacts in developing countries that are the least equipped to respond. 
The countries ravaged by the 2004 tsunami are recovering, but there is 
still a long way to go: Indonesia lost over 150,000 people, with half a 
million left homeless. In India, almost 20,000 people lost their lives 
and 2.79 million people were affected, losing homes, land, and 
livestock. The tsunami set back development in the Maldives by 20 
years, devastating the country's economic backbone and tourism 
industry.

We need comprehensive, and creative, strategies to help countries 
rebound from conflicts or natural disasters. One such strategy is to 
allow, and indeed encourage, immigrants to the United States to use 
their skills, talents, and knowledge to help rebuild their native 
lands. The diaspora is an extraordinary collective resource. These 
individuals know the communities. They know the culture. They know the 
language, more than any contractors, and more than any humanitarian 
workers from the outside, no matter how well-trained they may be or how 
much expertise they may have.

So today, I am introducing legislation, as I did in the last 
Congress, that would create a ''return of talent'' visa program.

The idea is simple: to allow legal immigrants in the United States to 
return home to help with reconstruction efforts, without jeopardizing 
their immigration status. Legal permanent residents will be able to 
return temporarily to their countries after a conflict or a significant 
natural disaster to help rebuild, without their time out of the United 
States affecting their ability to meet the requirements for U.S. 
citizenship.

Under current law, a legal permanent resident who wants to apply for 
U.S. citizenship is required to be physically present in the United 
States for at least half of the 5 years immediately preceding the date 
of filing the naturalization application.

This residency requirement could be particularly difficult to meet 
for those who have family and friends in their countries of origin who 
are in desperate need of help, and whose skills are especially in 
demand to help their countries of origin rebuild, for example, 
teachers, engineers, translators, and health care workers. We should 
not stand in their way of returning, bringing their talent and 
expertise home, and helping them help others at a time of greatest 
need.

This legislation would encourage skilled and committed individuals to 
return to their countries of origin to revive the business, industry, 
agriculture, education, health and other sectors that have been 
weakened or destroyed after years of conflict or devastating disasters.

The program would apply to immigrants from countries where U.S. Armed 
Forces have engaged in armed conflict or peacekeeping, or countries 
where the United Nations Security Council has authorized peacekeeping 
operations in the past 10 years. Immigrants from countries which 
received funding from the U.S. Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance 
also would be eligible to participate in the program.

Estimates of the number of individuals who could participate in this 
program are relatively low. For example, the United States admitted 
4,749 Afghani and 4,077 Iraqi immigrants in 2005 who are now legal 
permanent residents eligible to pursue U.S. citizenship. Immigrants 
from Indonesia numbered 3,924 and Bangladesh, 11,487 in the same year. 
Yet while the program would have a small impact on the U.S. 
naturalization process, the contributions of even a few hundred 
individuals could have a tremendous positive effect on reconstruction 
work.

At this moment the Senate is seized with finding a resolution to the 
massive and critical question of immigration reform. A return of talent 
program would fit well with whatever decisions we reach because, simply 
put, everybody wins: The United States is able to support badly needed 
rebuilding efforts without increasing foreign aid; immigrants are able 
to use their skills and resources to help communities without 
disrupting their path to U.S. citizenship; and communities abroad that 
are recovering from conflict and disaster receive much-needed 
assistance.

A return of talent program is an important piece of our overall 
strategy to stabilize and rebuild countries torn by conflict and 
devastated by natural disaster. I urge my colleagues to support this 
legislation.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.