# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `e98e533840bb7fc01bf4cd9374373f61`
`Mr. THORNBERRY — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, as I read this resolution, I can't help 
but think ''there they go again.''

With approval ratings of Congress near record lows, the majority 
leadership searches the polls for any issue they can use to political 
advantage. Unfortunately, their attempt to improve their standing comes 
at the expense of troops on the ground and our country's security.

Of course the American people are concerned about the course of 
events in Iraq. Of course they mourn each loss. Of course they want our 
troops to come home as soon as possible. Of course they do, because we 
all do.

But responsible leadership does not permit pandering to polls and 
understandable emotions without facing up to the real consequences of 
the vote. And by the way, putting the word ''responsible'' in the title 
of a bill does not make it so. It is an understandable, though I 
believe misguided, position to require an immediate withdrawal of 
forces from Iraq. This resolution, though, is an attempt to play 
politics with the issue and avoid responsibility for the consequences 
that come from its aftermath.

Requiring withdrawal on a congressionally mandated timetable abandons 
those who have worked with us, invites chaos and more death in Iraq and 
increases the risk to our security here at home. No one should be able 
to stick his or her head in the sand and ignore those consequences.

Mr. Speaker, I am concerned that what goes on in this Chamber with 
resolutions like this is encouraging to our adversaries and makes the 
job of our troops on the ground even harder than it needs to be. How 
can it possibly be responsible to declare failure when all of our 
troops have only been in Iraq for just about exactly 1 month today. 
This struggle and the broader war against radical Islamist terrorists 
will require the best of us, and that requires doing our constitutional 
duty. This resolution is far from the best we can do.