# ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `e99fb23b766f521877b17c112baf11a4`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 15 July 2009`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. I yield myself as much time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2010. This is a good bill because 
it is a significant improvement over the administration's budget 
request, and it was put together in a very bipartisan manner.

Before I turn to the contents of the legislation before us, like Mr. 
Pastor, I would like to thank the fantastic staff--Taunja Berquam, the 
Clerk; Bob Sherman; Joe Levin; Jim Windle; Casey Pearce; and Lauren 
Minto. On the minority side, I would like to thank Rob Blair and Kevin 
Jones. In my personal office, I would like to thank Katie Hazlett and 
Nancy Fox. In Mr. Pastor's personal office, I would like to thank Rick 
Patrick. All of these individuals have worked tirelessly to put 
together the product before us.

No one has worked harder than Mr. Pastor, and I want to thank Mr. 
Pastor for his friendship and for his leadership and guidance on this 
bill. The gentleman from Arizona is a pleasure to work with. I thank 
him for his leadership and for his assistance.

Mr. Chairman, the subcommittee's recommendation totals $33.82 
billion, which is $1.1 billion below the President's request and $200 
million over the fiscal year 2000 enacted level. While the dollar 
amounts are significant, the issues contained in this bill are at the 
core of our Nation's economic prosperity and national security, 
especially the energy portfolio, and our historic responsibility for 
the reliability and the protection of our nuclear stockpile. Thus, it 
is worthy of debate and amendment on the House floor.



The bill was preceded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, 
which gave more than $44 billion to the agencies under our 
jurisdiction. In fact, nearly $39 billion alone went to the Department 
of Energy. The Department has nearly one-and-a-half times more money to 
manage even before we consider this annual appropriations bill, so our 
bill cannot be viewed simply through the traditional lens of annual 
appropriations. With the passage of the stimulus bill, Secretary Chu 
and his new team assumed new roles as major grant managers and 
accountants for billions of dollars for new Federal and State programs 
and hundreds of new employees.

Mr. Chairman, I am pleased that we were able to improve upon the 
administration's request in several ways. For example, the legislation 
before us increases the budget request by over $400 million for the 
Army Corps of Engineers, enabling us to address more water needs across 
our country. The Army Corps projects touch virtually every 
congressional district; and I know Mr. Pastor and I highly respect the 
interests of all Members who, knowing their district needs, have sought 
some assistance; and we've done our best to accommodate them. Our 
recommendation increases research and development for both renewable 
energy and nuclear power while supporting clean coal initiatives and 
other technologies, such as geothermal, solar, fusion and wind power. I 
am exceptionally pleased that our bill keeps the Department on track 
for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant program.

There are some areas that I would have done a bit differently, of 
course. Not surprisingly, I would have preferred to have done more to 
reverse the administration's decision to terminate the Yucca Mountain 
repository in Nevada, where we have spent over $11 billion of taxpayer 
and rate payer moneys--in fact, $7 billion of rate payer moneys--with 
little apparent return. We still have tons of waste to dispose of and 
to protect. The bill before us does contain the administration's 
significant cut to the program, and I am deeply concerned that this 
basically political decision will be followed by others trumping future 
scientific recommendations and judgments. However, our bill directs $70 
million to ensure that the questions raised during the Yucca license 
application process can be answered; and it requires that funding for 
the President's suggested Blue Ribbon Panel is only available for a 
review, which includes all alternatives, including Yucca Mountain. I 
think this is the only way future review could be credible.

I would also have preferred much more support for nuclear power here 
in the United States and the greater availability of nuclear loan 
guarantees. Given what China and other nations are doing to build new 
nuclear power plants, we could produce much more electricity ourselves 
while adding American jobs, which we need if the administration as well 
as House and Senate majority leadership were more supportive. American 
companies are working abroad building nuclear power plants while we 
dither here. The President and congressional leadership appear to have 
a strong bias against nuclear power as well as oil and gas production, 
which will leave our Nation severely disadvantaged. Energy-intensive 
industries, like what is left of our American manufacturing base, will 
no longer be able to compete with nations who are making nuclear and 
other types of capital investments a priority, and they're not 
subjecting themselves to self-imposed cap-and-trade emissions 
reductions. Our lack of investing in nuclear power, so well illustrated 
in the recent passage of the so-called American Clean Energy and 
Security Act, is a gift that keeps on giving to our economic 
competitors China and India, whose economies are already sucking away 
U.S. jobs at an alarming rate.

We also improved that portion of the committee's jurisdiction that 
involves nuclear weapons activities, not to promote more nuclear 
weapons, but to provide more funds to reduce the weapons stockpile. The 
President's recent trip to Russia and his call for major changes in 
what is called our nuclear ''posture'' must be matched by the 
administration's funding requests that will pay for our country's 
nuclear dismantlements and for the science to certify the reliability 
of what's left. And we must provide adequate funding to retain our 
highly specialized nuclear scientists and technicians and to maintain 
the facilities and laboratories where they do their work. The only way 
to support our national security is by increasing this account, not by 
holding it flat. Talk about a delicate balance between nuclear and 
renewables is only talk, for investments in renewables received $60 
billion in the $800 billion stimulus--all of that borrowed money, I 
should add--and nuclear received nothing. I do hope that we can address 
this disproportionality in conference.

One of my biggest disappointments, however, is not with the bill but 
the way it was brought to the floor. With all the debate about climate 
change, global warming, conservation, carbon footprints and green jobs, 
Members of Congress in both parties should have the right to propose 
amendments to address their concerns and support sources of power that 
they specifically favor and know about, whether that be nuclear, 
hydroelectric, solar, wind, oil- or gas-based, fuel cell or fusion. 
That traditional right to amend our appropriations has been severely 
curtailed by the House leadership. Our appropriations bill affects 
virtually every


part of our economy, the household budgets of every American family and 
job prospects for thousands, and the thought that renewables alone are 
going to give us energy independence is, of course, on its face, 
absurd.

Before I close though, I'd like, on a positive note, to thank the 
Army Corps of Engineers, both military and civilian who, as we gather 
here today, continue to do their remarkable work in dangerous territory 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. We thank them for their courage, their work 
and their professionalism. Mr. Chairman, again I'd like to thank Vice 
Chairman Pastor for his leadership. Despite my unhappiness about the 
energy policy issues I have discussed, I intend to support the bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.