---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `e9addbff00c634fe03541523c0fa9dee`
`Mr. OBEY — 18 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Chairman, frankly, I am looking for my ranking 
minority member. But until he gets here let me take a little time and 
say that I would simply suggest to the gentleman, if he thinks this is 
a good idea, that he take this idea up with the President of the United 
States.

What this committee has tried to do both on this subcommittee and on 
the Foreign Operations Subcommittee is to respect and work with the 
administration in their effort to provide global leadership to deal 
with the AIDS epidemic around the world. And the fact is that this item 
in this bill is a critical piece of the President's program.

Given our disarray around the world because of Iraq, I think it is a 
wonderful exception when we can be seen to be providing constructive 
leadership in the world on something. And certainly, although I have 
many differences with the President, this is one area where I think he 
has exercised significant leadership.



And I think it would undercut our standing yet again in the world if 
we were to withdraw this funding.

I just think that we've struck a good balance with respect to this 
program. I think both subcommittees have tried to see to it that we 
meet our international responsibilities.

You and I are very lucky human beings. Our souls were, thanks to God, 
infused in a body that lives in the United States. If they had been 
infused in a body that was born in Africa or in Asia or in some of the 
other hot spots in the world in terms of these diseases, I think we 
would take a look at this issue in a quite different way.

This program provides the only real leadership in the world to attack 
this program. I think it would be a horrendous mistake if we were to 
adopt the gentleman's amendment. I would urge defeating the amendment.

Madam Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.