---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `e9d52fb068e1ae107b23fe9ea0ff08f1`
`Ms. WATERS — 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I rise as Chair of the 76-member Out of 
Iraq Caucus, and I will be followed by many other members during this 
hour. I rise in support of our troops and in support of this resolution 
opposing the President's escalation of this war.

Madam Speaker, I support this resolution, hoping this will be a first 
step in ending this war and reuniting our troops with their families 
and loved ones. This is an unbinding resolution. The real test for this 
Congress is going to be whether or not we will continue to fund this 
war.

For nearly 4 years, our troops have served bravely and admirably in 
Iraq. Unfortunately, the President and his administration have decided 
to pursue a political agenda when it decided to push for an invasion of 
Iraq. The President ignored the advice of dozens of experts inside and 
outside the government about invading Iraq. For example, the 
administration ignored the intelligence community's opinions about the 
status of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction programs. The 
administration also ignored recommendations about the number of troops 
needed to secure Iraq following the fall of Saddam Hussein. In 
addition, the President and the administration ignored warnings about 
the difficulty and danger of occupying Iraq and that Iraq would likely 
break down into sectarian violence.

In short, the administration ignored everything that conflicted with 
its plan to invade Iraq. Unfortunately, no one has borne the burdens of 
the administration's Iraq narrow agenda more than our troops and their 
families. The decision to escalate the war, to send more than 21,000 
additional troops to Iraq, will only increase the burden on our troops. 
Many of the troops serving in Iraq have served two, three, even four 
tours of duty. And of course the failed Iraq policy has resulted in the 
death of 3,109 U.S. troops, including 325 from my own State of 
California, and injury of more than 23,000 others.

Madam Speaker, many experts believe that the President's latest plan 
will not work, and early indications support that conclusion. About 
5,000 troops have arrived in Baghdad since the President announced the 
plan in January, yet the violence and devastation in Iraq is 
increasing. It is estimated that more than 2,276 Iraqi civilians have 
died so far this year and that more than 1,000 Iraqi security forces 
and 33 U.S. servicemen have died in just the past week. We are sending 
thousands more troops to Iraq in what is now known to be a civil war. 
Sending more troops to Iraq is not the answer. The key to stabilization 
is bringing our troops home and renewing our commitment to diplomacy.

This resolution is the first step in reining in this President and 
his misguided policies. However, as many have noted, this is, again, an 
unbinding resolution. I look forward to working with my colleagues on 
the war, spending bills that will be considered in the coming months to 
enact meaningful changes to this failed policy and to finally bring our 
troops home. The future of the entire Middle East is at stake.

The President does not appear to understand or appreciate the 
situation in Iraq is deteriorating each day. We are losing; however, we 
can win. And we will win by using leadership to engage and unite rather 
than attempting to overpower and conquer. Who are we fighting? The 
Sunnis, the Kurds, the Shias? Who are the insurgents? Some Sunnis, some 
Shias, some Kurds? Who are the terrorists? Shias, Sunnis, Kurds, 
Syrians, Iranians? Who are we fighting? I don't think our soldiers 
know, and I am not so sure this administration has really given the 
kind of deep thought and consideration as to who we are really 
fighting.



Diplomacy is the only answer. Today, we must oppose this escalation. 
However, I have no choice but in the final analysis to oppose continued 
funding of the American taxpayers' dollars to the war giant whose 
appetite cannot be satisfied, but in the interest of peace, must be 
denied.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.