# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `e9e07a49dfe670798e77fcfe423bc31c`
`Mr. DURBIN — 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, about 1 hour ago, the President of the 
United States vetoed the supplemental appropriations bill for the war 
in Iraq. It was a bill that we have worked on in Congress since its 
arrival in the middle of February. It was the subject of lengthy 
deliberations. There were long debates on the floor of the House and 
Senate. There was a lot of compromise that led to the final work 
product and a bipartisan vote which sent it to the President.

There were people who were skeptical as to whether the Senate and the 
House


of Representatives could rise to this challenge. In a nation that is so 
divided on so many political issues, in a nation where the war in Iraq 
is the biggest issue by far, there were serious doubts as to whether 
this Congress, with scant majorities of Democrats in both the House and 
the Senate, could produce a bill for President Bush to consider.

Congress rose to that occasion. With the leadership of Speaker Pelosi 
and the leadership of our majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, we 
produced a bill which attracted not only the overwhelming support of 
the Democratic caucus but also the support of Republican Senators who 
joined us in passing this bill.

It was our hope that our work product would be considered seriously 
by the President. It was sent to him this afternoon. A few hours after 
receiving it, the President vetoed it and announced his veto in a 
public press conference.

I am disappointed. The President had a chance to sign a bill that 
would have funded the troops in this war. More importantly, it was a 
bill he could have signed which could have changed the course of this 
war--something that is long overdue.

I listened in my office as the President gave his veto message to the 
American people. It was short, direct but, in many ways inadequate when 
you consider the awesome responsibility we face in Congress and in the 
White House.

The President referred to our timetable to start bringing American 
troops home as a date for failure. It is ironic the President would 
make that statement on the fourth anniversary of his appearance on the 
USS Lincoln aircraft carrier under a banner announcing, 4 years ago, 
that our mission was accomplished. For the President to announce 
success and failure, accomplishment and lack of accomplishment, leaves 
something to be desired after that experience 4 years ago.

I am particularly troubled as well by the President's notion of what 
this bill was all about. You see, he said, at one point, for us to set 
a timetable to bring American troops home would--in the President's 
words--''demoralize the Iraqi people.'' Those were his words.

Mr. President, excuse me, but I am not as interested in building up 
the morale of the Iraqi people as I am in inspiring the leaders of the 
nation to stand up and lead. For too long now, with the protection of 
the U.S. troops, this Iraqi Government has failed to make even basic 
progress in taking control of their country. They have failed to 
address the key political issues that would lead to stability.

So the President is arguing that if we continue to send 150,000 or 
more American soldiers to risk their lives, it will build up the morale 
of the Iraqi people to seek nationhood, stability, and peace. So we 
expect American soldiers to stand in this crossfire of a bitter 
religious and civil war, hoping that the Iraqi people will be inspired 
enough to ask their Government for leadership?

Mr. President, 3,351 American soldiers have fought and died in Iraq, 
as I stand here today. Mr. President, 3,351 American lives should be 
enough to inspire the Iraqi people and their Government. How many more 
American lives will it take for that inspiration the President is 
looking for?

I am troubled by this notion that unless we will sacrifice our 
treasure and the lives of our brave soldiers, the Iraqis cannot rise to 
the occasion and lead themselves out of this morass.

I also listened to the President when he characterized the money that 
we added in Congress to his budget request. He called it--and I will 
quote--''billions in nonemergency spending that has nothing to do with 
fighting the war on terror.''

I wonder if the President's staff put the bill in front of him for 
him to take a close look at, in the few hours he had it before vetoing 
the bill.

Is the President arguing to the American people that providing $2 
billion more in equipment to keep our troops safe in Iraq has nothing 
to do with fighting the war on terror?

Is the President arguing that the $1 billion in our supplemental 
appropriations bill--the $1 billion to replenish National Guard 
equipment destroyed and lost in the war in Iraq--that $1 billion has 
nothing to do with the war on terror?

Is the President arguing that the $2 billion in this bill for 
military hospitals--such as Walter Reed, so we do not relegate our 
fallen soldiers and those who were injured to a flophouse motel across 
Georgia Avenue from Walter Reed Hospital--is he arguing that the $2 
billion that is in the bill for military hospitals has nothing to do 
with the war on terror?

Perhaps the President is not aware of the fact there was $2 billion 
in this bill for veterans hospitals all across America, for those who 
have come home with post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain 
injury, and amputations who need the services of the VA hospitals. Is 
the President arguing that money for VA hospitals has ''nothing to do 
with the war on terror''? That is what he said. That is an exact quote.

This bill has add-ons that relate to real emergencies in America. I 
have outlined a few related directly to the war on terror, directly to 
our troops, directly to our national security.

There is money, as well, for the base closing commission, which it is 
my understanding the President wanted included. There is money, as 
well, for Hurricane Katrina. Here we are, a year and a half after that 
terrible tragedy, still trying to put New Orleans back on its feet and 
rebuild Louisiana and Mississippi and areas affected by Katrina and 
Rita. Yes, there is money in the bill for those emergency purposes.

For the President to dismiss this as billions in nonemergency 
spending suggests his staff did not do their job, they did not spell 
out to the President what was in that bill before he vetoed it.

Well, the President knows--and he said as much--we do not have the 
votes to override his veto. That is a reality. It takes 67 votes in the 
Senate. We have been able to rally 51 or 52 votes on a good day to 
question the President's policies in Iraq. Two or three Republican 
Senators have stood by our side on the Democratic side of the aisle. 
Few others have been willing to do so. So the thought of reaching 67 
votes is probably a bridge too far. I think we know that reality.

But this much I will say: Congress cannot override the President's 
veto, but the President cannot override the reality of Iraq. The 
reality of Iraq is this: We are in the fifth year of a war. We have 
seen 3,351 American lives sacrificed, 25,000 or more injured, 7,000 or 
8,000 seriously injured with traumatic brain injury and amputations.

Americans have sacrificed from their hard work and earnings $500 
billion for this war and for rebuilding Iraq. That is the reality of 
Iraq today.

The reality is, this last month of April was the deadliest month this 
year for American soldiers. The reality is, this President has no plan 
to exit that country and bring our troops home. That is the reality. We 
may not be able to override this veto, but the President cannot 
override those realities.

Now it is time for the American people to understand what happens 
next.

We will fund these troops. We have made that promise, and we will 
keep it. They will not be bargaining chips in our policy debate in 
Washington. But we will continue, through this bill and through other 
legislation this year, to continue to put the issue of the Iraq war in 
front of the President, in front of the American people. They expect 
nothing less.

For those who are frustrated by the President's veto today, I join 
them in that frustration. But I join them, as well, in believing that 
as the American people speak out on this issue, the likelihood that 
Republicans will cross this aisle and join us increases.

The time will come--I am not sure when but I hope soon--that tipping 
point will be reached where the Republicans finally say to their 
President: Enough. We cannot ignore the reality of this war and what it 
has done to America. Then they will join us. Then this will truly 
become a bipartisan effort. Then we will be able to override vetoes and 
pass legislation that will make a meaningful change in the policy of 
this war.

I encourage those across America seeking a new direction in Iraq, do 
not be discouraged by this veto. There will be another day. There will 
be another bill. There will be another chance for us to change this 
policy. We need to keep our forces together--the forces for change in 
Iraq on the Democratic side and on the Republican side. We cannot allow 
the President's veto pen to be the


last word on this war in Iraq. We have to stand together, and we have 
to work together.

The President comes up with rosy reports on what is happening in 
Iraq. But we know the reality. Sectarian deaths are down, he said. 
Well, I guess they are down slightly, a small percentage, of those 
innocent civilians killed last month. There were fewer this month. I 
guess that is progress. But those who are there say the violence is 
subsiding while the surge is underway, and they are afraid it will 
return. I am, too.

We need to pass a bill for the troops, and sometime soon. We will 
work hard to try to find a way with the President. He has invited the 
leadership of the Senate and the House to meet with him tomorrow in the 
White House. I have been to those meetings before. There have been 
little results to point to for the time we have met and the dialog we 
have exchanged. But I go tomorrow with the hope that things will be 
different. I hope this President, after his moment in the sun with this 
veto, will now understand that we face the grim reality of Iraq, and 
the reality that we have no exit plan. This failed policy in Iraq must 
come to an end. We will continue to fight, with this democratic 
Congress, to make a change in that policy. We will stand by our 
soldiers, but we will not stand by a failed policy. I am encouraged by 
the fact that so many of my colleagues are ready to continue this 
fight, and I encourage the American people: Don't give up. Don't lose 
heart. This democracy works when you work with us to bring the will of 
the people to the law of the land.


Mr. President, I yield the floor.