---
---

# TRIBUTE TO INTELLIGENCE SPECIALIST FIRST CLASS PETTY OFFICER JAMES K.  BROWN
## `e9f1b134a82a3b6f918fc6f669efe8df`
`Mr. CAMP — 15 April 2010`

---


Mr. CAMP. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Intelligence 
Specialist First Class Petty Officer James K. Brown for his 20 years of 
dedicated service in the defense of the United States of America.

Petty Officer Brown enlisted in the United States Navy in June 1990 
and went on to Great Lakes Recruit Training Center, for his basic 
training. After graduating from Recruit Training Command, Great Lakes, 
Illinois in August 1990, James went to Cryptological Training Command 
at Fort Devens, Massachusetts.

Through out his years of service, Petty Officer Brown has 
distinguished himself as the Leading Petty Officer in the Intelligence 
Department and as the special Security Officer for the Command in many 
ways exemplified by the awards and ribbons he has collected throughout 
his service. During his assignment to the USS Wisconsin (B-64), he 
participated in Desert Shield and Desert Storm earning a Flag Letter of 
Commendation along with Navy Combat Action Ribbon and various other 
awards. While aboard the USS Nassau (LHA-4) Petty Officer Brown also 
earned the Blue Nose certificate. He also was part of the support team 
for the Desert Fox and Kosovo operations.

In addition, Petty Officer Brown participated in the two crucial 
deployments USS Carl Vinson, launching the first attack on the Global 
War on Terrorism into Afghanistan in response to 9/11 and addressing 
heightened tensions off the coast of North Korea. During the second 
deployment off the coast of North Korea, he participated in FOAL EAGLE 
and TANDUM THRUST. While on board he pursued his associates degree in 
General Studies while earning his Enlisted Aviation Warfare Specialist 
pin and a Navy Achievement Medal. In the spring of 2003, he took orders 
to the Joint Military Intelligence College where he spent one year 
earning his bachelor's degree in Intelligence. Following his pursuit of 
education, he took orders to the Chief of Naval Operations where he 
pursued and finished his Post Graduate Education in Intelligence 
Studies. While stationed at the Pentagon, he received another Navy 
Achievement Medal and the Chairman of the Joint Chief Staff badge.

We all owe a debt of gratitude to our servicemen and women, like 
Petty Officer Brown, who have dutifully a nobly answered the call to 
service for our Nation. They put themselves in harm's way to make our 
country safer. On behalf of the Michigan 4th Congressional District, I 
thank First Class Petty Officer James K. Brown for his dedicated 
service and wish him well in his future endeavors.
