---
---

# None
## `e9f2d7a404e866e4a4fbad0ed7f29ef0`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 5 June 2008`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of 
legislation urging the Government of the Republic of Iraq to recognize 
the right of the State of Israel to exist and to establish diplomatic 
relations with Israel.

As Congress joins with the people of Israel to celebrate Israel's 
60th anniversary, there are still many countries in the world which 
refuse to recognize our Middle Eastern ally's right to exist. Sadly, 
Iraq is one of them.

The United States has provided Iraq with nearly $50 billion in 
security and economic assistance to date, none of which has been 
repaid. Yet despite this enormous amount of aid, the Government of Iraq 
refuses to recognize Israel, the most reliable ally of the United 
States in the Middle East. This isn't right.

Establishing ties with Israel would help Iraq grow. Since its birth 
in 1948, Israel has emerged as a worldwide leader and expert in the 
agricultural, medical, and technological fields. Israel has the ability 
to forge a unique partnership with Iraq which would greatly benefit 
from the skills and knowledge of the Israeli workforce. Trade between 
the two countries would also help Iraq build an economy that is vibrant 
and independent of the energy sector while helping to foster democracy 
in the heart of the Middle East. This will never happen, however, 
unless Iraq moves beyond the draconian rhetoric of the past and 
recognizes Israel's right to exist.

The resolution I am introducing today calls on the Government of Iraq 
to recognize Israel's right to exist and establish diplomatic relations 
with our Middle Eastern friend. My resolution also calls on Iraq and 
other states to work with Israel and the U.S. in fighting the spread of 
extremism and terrorism throughout the world. Finally, the resolution 
urges the Administration to persuade Iraq and other countries to 
recognize Israel's right to exist.

I urge my colleagues to support this important resolution which 
encourages the Government of Iraq to finally recognize our great ally's 
right to exist. I call on the leadership of the House to support this 
resolution.
