---
---

# None
## `e9f8af4807f561d7d552210964428ecd`
`Mr. AKIN — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, the bill that's before us today is a product 
of hundreds and hundreds of hours of hearings, all kinds of work by 
Members and staff, and by and large it's a good product. It's a 
political product. It has trade-offs here and there to try to balance 
one requirement against the other; and it is, once again, a reflection 
of a committee that I have been honored to be able to serve on for 9 
years, a committee that has been largely bipartisan, a committee that 
has focused on solving problems, defending our Nation, and supporting 
our troops.

And in all of those regards, this bill is fine, except for there is 
an elephant the room. The elephant in the room was an invention of the 
Senate. They decided to put onto a bill that is focused on supporting 
our troops their own liberal social agenda of hate crimes legislation. 
Now, they claim they have the votes to pass that so why don't they pass 
it somewhere else? Instead, they put it on the backs of our service men 
and women and expect to use a blackmail kind of approach to have us, to 
dare us to vote against adding something that's totally extraneous to 
defense of this Nation on the backs of our service people.

A number of us are saying, as much as we support our troops, as much 
as we support the hard work of this committee, we believe that this is 
a poison pill, poisonous enough in fact that we refuse to be 
blackmailed into voting for a piece of social agenda that has no place 
in this bill. This is the kind of shenanigans that makes the American 
public irate. This is the kind of thing, like passing 300 pages of 
amendments at 3 in the morning, that makes the public nauseous.

And I, for one, as much as I support our troops, indeed, I even have 
a son going to Afghanistan in 3 weeks, as much as I support him and the 
rest of our troops, I will not allow us to be blackmailed into voting 
for something totally extraneous on this bill; and that's the reason 
why I will not support the bill.