# None
## `e9fd96d153d7cd31fdb3104d89ac44d2`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 19 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, as written, the higher education 
authorization bill takes us down a dangerous fiscal road. Democrats are 
using a privileged rule that was originally meant to cut the deficit to 
expand the government instead with more than $19 billion in new 
mandatory spending.

Ironically, they're trying to paper over this by cutting existing 
programs that help teachers and students in States like mine to reach a 
net savings of less than $1 billion. Compare that to previous 
Congresses, which used reconciliation rules to save nearly $500 billion 
in 1990, $433 billion in 1993, $118 billion in 1997, and $39 billion in 
2005. The Democratic majority is using one of the few budget tools we 
have for shrinking government and using it to grow government instead.

This is surprising to say the least--given that the Senate just 
passed a resolution by unanimous consent saying we wouldn't use these 
rules for new spending. Democrats conveniently dropped that provision 
in conference.

Both sides have used reconciliation to move tax policy in the past--
Republicans to cut taxes seven times; and Democrats to raise them four 
times. What's unprecedented here is using it for no other reason than 
to create new mandatory programs and expand the government--by tens of 
billions of dollars. These budget shenanigans are standard operating 
procedure for tax and spenders, but they set an extremely dangerous 
precedent.

Now, I would like to say a word about the programs this bill would 
cut. Democrats justify the cuts to lender subsidies in the higher ed 
bill with the old Robin Hood line that the money they plan to take from 
private lenders will go to students instead. But this just isn't true 
in places like Kentucky, where the Federal loans of three out of every 
four borrowers are held by not-for-profits.

These are groups that don't have profits--they funnel their earning 
back to borrowers. When you cut subsidies to them, you're cutting 
subsidies to students, parents, nurses, and National Guard members 
throughout my State. To Kentuckians, this bill is a reverse Robin Hood: 
it takes money from our students and funnels it back to Washington.

They know what's going on, and they don't like it, regardless of 
their political affiliation. I just got a letter from the State 
Treasurer, Jonathan Miller, who also happens to chair the Kentucky 
Democratic Party. Here's what he wrote:

''If the additional Federal Family Education Loan Program cuts are 
enacted, the entire borrower benefits program will be seriously 
jeopardized, and the impact would be immediate and significant for 
thousands of Kentucky families who depend upon Kentucky's nonprofit 
higher education agencies to help make higher education affordable.''

Teachers in Kentucky would also get hit: Last year, thousands of 
teachers in my state received $15 million in student loan forgiveness 
from non-profit lenders like the Higher Education Student Loan 
Corporation and the Kentucky Higher Education Assistance Authority.

These benefits are targeted to teachers in high need subjects, like 
math, science, and special education. The President of the Kentucky 
Education Association, Frances Steenbergen, has informed me that if 
these cuts enacted, over 14,000 Kentucky teachers will be impacted 
immediately.

Republicans will have an opportunity to salvage this bill, but it 
won't be easy. It violates the intent of reconciliation to expand 
government, and slashes programs that are an enormous help to students 
and teachers. We'll also use the amendment process to repair some of 
the damage from yesterday. I think everyone was startled when the 
Democratic Leadership pulled the Defense Authorization bill from the 
floor. As the senior Senator from Arizona said, ''He was more sad than 
angry.''

Here's a bill that would authorize pay raises for the men and women 
in the military, Mine Resistant Ambush Protected, M-RAP, vehicles for 
Iraq, and a lot of other urgent military support. Just this week, the 
chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee issued a statement decrying 
delays in the delivery of these M-RAP vehicles--vehicles that have the 
potential of substantially reducing U.S. casualties in Iraq.

He sent a letter to the Defense Secretary in which he asked how it 
was possible ''that with our nation at war, with more than 130,000 
Americans in danger, with roadside bombs destroying a growing number of 
lives and limbs, we were so slow to act'' in getting this technology to 
the troops. He should be asking the Democratic leadership today how it 
could have pulled the plug on a bill that authorizes the production of 
M-RAP vehicles.

He should ask them how they could have complained about the shameful 
neglect at Walter Reed--and then pulled a bill that addressed the most 
critical failing in our treatment of wounded soldiers and marines 
returning from battle He should ask them how they could pull a bill 
that delays a pay raise for military personnel.

Republicans have an opportunity today to restore this vital support 
for our military men and women, and we are going to seize it. It's 
unacceptable to wait: it's now late July and we haven't done a single 
appropriations bill--not one. The House has done six. At this rate, we 
won't have sent a single appropriations bill to the President by the 
time we leave here in August--an outrageous waste of time. These pranks 
and gimmicks guarantee we will have our backs to the wall in September.