# COMPREHENSIVE REPORT ON AL-QAIDA
## `ea03e765aa28312275b0e40eccdf8f1a`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, the Senate will vote later today in 
relation to two bills I recently introduced with Majority Leader Reid 
addressing the war in Iraq and the disastrous toll it continues to take 
on our top national security priority, the global fight against al-
Qaida.

Many of my colleagues have expressed concern that the exhausting rate 
of deployments in Iraq and the resources we are committing to that 
country are undermining our ability to protect ourselves at home and 
respond to dangers abroad, including the deteriorating situation in 
Afghanistan and the global threat posed by al-Qaida. While we all hope 
that the recent decline in violence in Iraq will hold, lasting 
stability remains elusive and there is a serious danger that our troops 
will remain mired in Iraq while our ability to combat al-Qaida 
elsewhere and protect ourselves at home continues to deteriorate.

Senator Reid and I have introduced two bills to address these 
problems head-on. One of these bills, S. 2633, is similar to 
legislation we have offered before. I am pleased that this bill is also 
cosponsored by Senators Boxer, Brown, Byrd, Cardin, Clinton, Dodd, 
Durbin, Harkin, Leahy, Menendez, Obama, Sanders, Schumer, Whitehouse, 
and Wyden. It requires the President to safely redeploy U.S. combat 
troops from Iraq with very narrow exceptions. Effective 120 days from 
enactment of this bill, U.S. troops could only remain in Iraq for the 
following purposes: conducting targeted military operations against al-
Qaida and its affiliates, providing security for U.S. personnel and 
infrastructure, providing limited training of Iraqi Security Forces, 
providing equipment and training to our own troops, and continuing to 
redeploy from Iraq.

Unlike previous legislation I have offered, this bill does not have 
an end date for redeployment. Some of my colleagues who oppose the war 
have expressed concern about Congress setting such a date, and in 
drafting this legislation we have tried to address their concerns. By 
not including an end date, we are trying to provide additional 
flexibility in how the troops are redeployed. And we are also making 
doubly clear that at no point will funding be denied to the troops--
they will continue to be fully funded throughout their redeployment.

If there is no end date for redeployment, then (what is to stop the 
administration keeping troops there indefinitely? The answer is that, 
after 120 days, troops can only remain in Iraq for the narrowly defined 
purposes in the bill. Because these exceptions are so narrow, the bill 
removes any incentive for the President to delay or ''slow walk'' 
redeployment.

Now, some on the other side are arguing that this new bill is tougher 
than previous versions, because the funding restriction kicks in 
sooner, in 120 days. Of course, these are the same people who oppose 
any limitations on the war, so I don't take their arguments too 
seriously. I suspect they haven't actually read the new bill, or they 
would realize that the bill is quite a bit more flexible, for the 
reasons I just mentioned.

Right now, the administration is considering various ''drawdown'' 
plans, all of which would leave well over 100,000 troops in Iraq 
through the end of the year. That would continue to require an 
exhausting rate of deployments that we simply cannot afford--for our 
military readiness, our fiscal bottom line, and our national security.

This administration has put Iraq first for too long. In an effort to 
refocus our national priorities, the second bill Senator Reid and I 
have introduced with Senators Boxer, Brown, Byrd, Cardin, Casey, 
Clinton, Dodd, Harkin, Lautenberg, Leahy, Menendez, Obama, Schumer, and 
White-house, would require the administration to come up with a 
strategy to wage a comprehensive, global campaign against al-Qaida, 
without undermining our military readiness. The legislation, S. 2634, 
does this by requiring a comprehensive report from the Secretaries of 
Defense, State and Homeland Security, working in coordination with the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of National 
Intelligence. The report will examine the threat posed by al-Qaida and 
affiliates around the world and recommend ways to ensure that our 
national security assets are properly deployed to address this threat. 
To be clear, I am not just talking about military assets, we also have 
intelligence, diplomatic and other assets that we need to use to defeat 
al-Qaida. We can't just rely on boots on the ground--we need to use all 
of the other facets of U.S. power, including aggressive public and 
private diplomacy, to counter al-Qaida.

Some of the information called for in this bill will probably need to 
be contained in a classified annex. But there is no reason the 
administration cannot also provide a public report identifying in broad 
terms the threat we face and how to respond to it. The American public 
should be kept as informed as


possible about how we are protecting them from the number one threat we 
face.

I know some of my colleagues do not want to be talking about Iraq 
again. I know some of them complain that we spent too much time 
debating Iraq last year and I know some of them have concerns about 
whether now is the right time to bring these bills up for a vote. But 
we cannot allow the focus on Iraq to fade because violence has declined 
in parts of Iraq. It is true violence levels are down to where they 
were in 2005, but Iraq is still extremely and unacceptably violent, as 
it was in 2005. Violence has risen in Mosul and in the south, and U.S. 
casualty rates in January were higher than in December. All is not calm 
in Iraq, as the administration would have you believe.

Moreover, the surge has not brought Iraq any closer to legitimate 
political reconciliation at the national level--and it may, in fact, 
have undermined the prospects for such reconciliation in the long term. 
The President's policies have empowered former insurgents and militia-
infiltrated security forces with questionable loyalties. By supporting 
sheiks in al Anbar--and elsewhere--we may have reduced violence in the 
near term, but only by making it more difficult to achieve national 
reconciliation in the long run. The Director of National Intelligence, 
or DNI, testified this month that many Sunnis who participate in local 
security initiatives remain hostile to the Shi'ite leaders in Baghdad, 
and that some of those leaders see the Sunnis we are supporting as 
''thinly disguised insurgents'' who are plotting against them. Mr. 
President, we cannot, and should not, ask our brave men and women in 
uniform to resolve these sectarian disputes. Military operations are 
not a substitute for a viable political settlement, and the American 
people are simply not willing to leave our troops on the front lines 
indefinitely in hopes that some day such a settlement will arrive.


Recent gains in Iraq are tactical successes at best, devoid of an 
overarching strategy to integrate local powerbrokers into a broader 
national framework. Our presence has only added to the complexities in 
Iraq as we meddle in local dynamics and contribute to internal 
divisions and sectarian tensions. Keeping a significant military 
presence in Iraq will not bring lasting stability to that country. 
Indeed, the Iraqi people and the Iraqi parliament continue to oppose an 
open-ended U.S. military presence in their country, which is something 
they have in common with the American people.

Keeping our troops in Iraq will not solve Iraq's problems, and it 
won't help us address the growing threat posed by al-Qaida around the 
world. It makes no sense to devote so many of our critical resources 
and so much of our attention to one country, rather than to the global 
fight against al-Qaida.

Every year, I hold town hall meetings in each of the 72 counties of 
Wisconsin, and over the January and February recess I held some 30 
meetings in some of the most conservative parts of the state. I didn't 
bring up Iraq at those January meetings because I wanted to see whether 
it was still a major concern, particularly with these audiences. And 
guess what, in every single meeting, they brought it up with me. And 
they didn't just bring it up, they asked what we are doing to bring 
home the troops. But I had to tell them that, instead of getting out of 
Iraq, we will likely be sending one-third of the members of the 
Wisconsin National Guard back to Iraq next year, many of whom have 
served within the last 2 or 3 years.

They will be torn from their family, their jobs, their communities, 
to be put in harm's way, all in order to create space for a political 
reconciliation in Iraq that is always just over the horizon. They will 
not be there to protect the people of Wisconsin in the event of an 
emergency, nor will they be reinforcing our troops in Afghanistan, who 
face what one recent report described as a ''stalemate'' in fighting 
al-Qaida's ally, the Taliban. Like Americans all across the country, 
the people of Wisconsin don't think this makes sense. They want an end 
to our involvement in this war in Iraq, and they want to know what's 
stopping us from making it happen.

This administration has been so distracted by Iraq that it has 
neglected to address the top threats to our national security. It has 
allowed security conditions in Afghanistan to deteriorate tremendously, 
to the point where former NATO Commander General Jones recently 
concluded that we are in a ''strategic stalemate.'' I need hardly 
remind my colleagues that this is the country from which al-Qaida 
launched the 9/11 attacks, and where it continues to operate.

While agreeing to provide 3,200 U.S. troops to Afghanistan, Secretary 
Gates has also requested additional ground troops from our allies. If 
our allies are unwilling to provide those troops or worsening 
conditions require additional troops, it is far from clear that we will 
have the forces we need in Afghanistan without further undermining 
military readiness and homeland security.

Across the Afghan border, in Pakistan, things are also looking bad. 
The Director of National Intelligence testified recently that ''al-
Qaida's central leadership based in the border area of Pakistan is al-
Qaida's most dangerous component.'' The DNI also said that since the 
middle of 2006, there has been an influx of ''new Western recruits'' 
into this part of the world, an indication that al-Qaida is ''improving 
the last key aspect of its ability to attack the United States: the 
identification, training, and positioning of operatives for an attack 
in the homeland.'' His testimony closely echoed his warnings from 
almost a year ago when he noted that future attacks against our nation 
were likely to come from that part of the world. It is worth mentioning 
that this is the same exact warning we received from the July 2007 NIE, 
which assessed that al-Qaida has regenerated and reconstituted itself 
in the Pakistan-Afghanistan border region.

The administration has made matters worse by associating itself with 
an undemocratic, authoritarian regime in Pakistan, one that the 
Pakistani people, finally given the chance to make their voices heard, 
roundly rejected. In return for questionable anti-terrorism assistance, 
we have given the Musharraf regime billions of dollars, not to mention 
the cost to our credibility, and to our ability to build strong, 
sustainable partnerships in Pakistan.

Our endless presence in Iraq is distracting us from these core 
threats to our national security. Instead of dancing around these vital 
concerns, we need to address them head on and that is why we need a 
strategy for defeating al-Qaida and its affiliates around the globe. We 
need a strategy which identifies the gravest threats to our national 
security and makes recommendations for addressing them with both 
military and nonmilitary initiatives.

I know there is no silver bullet to defeat al-Qaida. But it has been 
made very clear to Congress, and to the American public that if we are 
to protect ourselves at home, there must be a dramatic shift in how we 
order our national priorities. We cannot continue with the current 
agenda. We must refocus not just so we have the capacity to respond to 
other contingencies abroad but also because our heavy footprint in Iraq 
makes us more vulnerable at home.

We need to rebuild our domestic response capability, which has been 
severely compromised by repeated deployments of our National Guard. As 
long as we keep over 100,000 troops in Iraq we will have to continue to 
deploy Guard units in a manner that compromises their ability to 
prepare for domestic incidents. Deployments to Iraq have left those 
responsible for protecting us at home with, on average, only 56 percent 
of the essential ''dual-use'' equipment needed to respond to a domestic 
incident.

Indeed, the National Guard Bureau estimates that it is facing a $47 
billion equipment shortfall, including a $20 million shortfall in 
equipment needed to respond to a chemical, biological, or radiological 
incident at home, notwithstanding the fact that it is the stated 
intention of al-Qaida to pursue such weapons. The Commission on the 
National Guard and Reserves concluded that ''[b]ecause our nation has 
not adequately resourced its forces designated for response to weapons 
of mass destruction, it does not have sufficient trained, ready forces 
available.''

(Disturbance in the Visitors' Galleries).