# IN RECOGNITION OF THE KOREAN WAR
## `ea038db0a18506250dcc3ceee07bcc0e`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 9 July 2009`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, as we recognize the 
fifty-ninth anniversary of the Korean War, it is fitting that we have a 
renewed appreciation for the courage of the American military. This was 
a conflict initiated by a surprise attack from North Korea mercilessly 
against the people of South Korea. Throughout the war, American 
servicemembers resisted North Korean attacks and provided security for 
the people of South Korea. This has enabled that nation to become one 
of the world's most successful economies with a dynamic democratic form 
of government. They are a model for our allies in Iraq and Afghanistan 
which shows that from the ashes of war a thriving civil society can 
emerge.

Poet Albert Carey Caswell, an appreciated Capitol tour guide, has 
authored the following poetic tribute for America's military:















 The Korean War



 The Korean War . . .


 Was but the one for sure . . .


 One hell of a fight, all the more!


 Where, brave hearts of America so for sure . . .


 Would so bring their light to insure . . .


 That Communism could not endure . . .


 A time when the world, would test that dream . . .


 Of the United Nation, as now it all so clearly seems!


 From all across America's shores . . .


 As came such fine brave hearts, who would somehow endure . . 





 .


 But, the very face of hell . . . whose fine hearts so chose 





 to swell . . .


 All for our freedom to insure!


 From The Frozen Chosen, to Pork Chop hill . . .


 Such brave hearts, of iron wills!


 MacArthur's Men of Might, who but bore that fight . . .


 Who so heroically upon those deadly hills burned bright!


 As just when things looked far gone,


 But came that surprising landing at Inchon!


 For America had Seoul . . .


 The kind that we must so teach our children, in hearts to so 





 hold!


 All in hearts of honor which soar . . .


 All in America's quest, to freedom to so insure . . .


 As all throughout the centuries,


 Have such magnificents, so bought our peace!


 The one's who have so lived and died . . .


 Whose loved ones were left behind to cry!


 Who fought in one of the most bloodiest wars . . .


 Fine patriots, who so heroically headed north!


 With Communist on the march, as cried these boys . . .


 Men of honor, ''not on my watch'' were heard their voices . . 





 .


 Cold is Cold, for there could be no colder days in hell of 





 course . . .


 All in what this war would spell . . .


 And 'Oh what heartache and misery . . .


 For all of these finest of all souls, would be . . .




 And all those in that air war,


 Sent them running back across those Yalu shores . . .


 For they too were the men of the hour,


 For the air support gave us such power!


 And all those on the high seas . . . dropping b's . . .


 Softening up those commies . . .


 And all of those MIA's,


 Whose loved ones their fine hearts still muse this very day . 





 . .


 About where there loved ones now so lie . . .


 For only now, their precious souls are seen all in our lord's 





 eyes!


 And all of those who returned home, without arms and legs . . 





 .


 Teaching us all what the word hero so conveys!


 And eyes, who now so live without this day . . .


 For some call it the Forgotten War!


 But not so in our Lord's eyes, for sure!


 For of these, were the finest of all Men . . .


 Who Live on this day . . .


 All in America's greatest of all heroic lores!


 As was, The Korean War . . .
