---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `ea0ed620c1bfd04c1c093044b8b11f73`
`Mr. LEVIN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, after 4 years of fighting and the loss of 
almost 3,200 American lives, 24,000 wounded, $350 billion spent on this 
war, it is long past time for a new approach in Iraq. Everybody who 
participates in this debate wants to maximize our chances of success in 
Iraq. Even those of us who voted against going to war and those of us 
who have disagreed with how this war has been conducted want to see a 
stable Iraq which enhances our own national security.

But continuing the current course and surging along the current 
course does not do that. The President's current course of action, of 
putting more U.S. military personnel in the middle of a growing civil 
war in Iraq, does not enhance our security and it does not maximize the 
chances of success.

The President's plan has a fundamental flaw because what is needed in 
Iraq is a political solution among the Iraqi leaders, not a military 
solution. Our troops perform bravely and brilliantly, but American 
military firepower will not end the civil war in Iraq. It has been 
apparent for a long time that there is no military solution in Iraq, 
that an Iraqi political solution is necessary to end the violence. GEN 
Peter Chiarelli, commanding general of


the multinational force in Iraq, said the following in December:




 We need a commitment by all Iraqis, of all of the ethno-


 sectarian groups to commit first to nonviolence and to 


 resolving their differences through the political process . . 


 .


And he continued:




 I happen to believe that we have done everything militarily 


 that we possibly can.


At his confirmation hearing in December, I asked our new Secretary of 
Defense, Bob Gates:




 Do you believe that the end to violence in Iraq requires a 


 political settlement, and that we need to communicate a sense 


 of urgency to the Iraqis to pressure them to reach a 


 settlement that only their politicians can reach?


Dr. Gates replied:




 Yes, I do.


The Iraq Study Group stated that:




 The violence in Iraq cannot be stopped or even contained if 


 there is no underlying political agreement among Iraqis about 


 the future of their country.


Perhaps most telling was Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki's acknowledgment 
recently on this essential point. This is what Iraq's own Prime 
Minister said:




 The crisis is political. And the ones who can stop the 


 cycle of aggravation and blood-letting of innocents are the 


 Iraqi politicians.


The real battle for Baghdad is not a military battle, it is a 
political one, and that battle can be resolved only by Iraqi 
politicians and not by our military.

So how do we pressure the Iraqi leaders to reach the political 
settlement that is essential? We can start by ending our open-ended 
commitment to Iraq. The President has changed his rhetoric about ending 
our open-ended commitment, but he has not changed his policy. In fact, 
he sent the opposite message when he sent more troops to Baghdad.

Our objective in Iraq, and the objective of this resolution, must be 
to shift responsibility to the Iraqis, both politically and militarily, 
for their future. For that to happen, we must end the open-ended 
commitment that has been made by this administration to Iraq of the 
presence--without decision by us, leaving it up to the Iraqis for how 
long and how many--of American troops.

We must make clear to the Iraqis that their future is in their hands, 
not ours. We must make it clear to the Iraqis they must reach a 
political settlement among themselves and, if they do not, we cannot 
save them from themselves.

As General Abizaid said in November:




 It's easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do this work. I 


 believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 


 future.


General Casey made the same point in early January when he said:




 The longer we in the U.S. forces continue to bear the main 


 burden of Iraq's security, it lengthens the time that the 


 government of Iraq has to take the hard decisions about 


 reconciliation and dealing with the militias. And the other 


 thing is that they can continue to blame us for all of Iraq's 


 problems, which are at base their problems.


The Iraq Study Group specifically drew the connection between the 
importance of ending the open-ended commitment of American troops and 
persuading the Iraqis to make political compromises. There is a 
connection between the two, the Iraq Study Group said, between ending 
the open-ended commitment and getting the Iraqis to resolve their 
political differences. Here is the way they put it in the Iraq Study 
Group's report:




 An open-ended commitment of American forces would not 


 provide the Iraqi government the incentive it needs to take 


 the political actions that give Iraq the best chance of 


 quelling sectarian violence. In the absence of such an 


 incentive, the Iraqi government might continue to delay 


 taking those difficult actions.


That is the Iraq Study Group.

Columnist Tom Friedman put it succinctly recently in the New York 
Times:




 Right now everyone in Iraq is having their cake and eating 


 it--at our expense. We have to change that.


But instead of putting pressure on the Iraqis, the President is 
putting his faith in the Iraqis to meet certain benchmarks they have 
set for themselves. But look at the track record of the Iraqi 
Government in meeting some of the benchmarks and promises it has set 
for itself and it has made.

Iraqi President Talibani said in August of 2006 that Iraqi forces 
would ''take over security in all Iraqi provinces by the end of 2006.'' 
That pledge surely has not been kept.

Prime Minister Maliki said last June he would disband the militias 
and illegal armed groups as part of his national reconciliation plan, 
and in October he set the timetable for disbanding the militias as the 
end of 2006. That commitment has not been kept.

The Iraqi Constitutional Review Commission was to present its 
recommendations for changes in the constitution to the Council of 
Representatives within 4 months of the formation of the Iraqi 
Government last May. Well, the commission has yet to formulate any 
recommendations.

Prime Minister Maliki put forward a series of reconciliation 
milestones to be completed by the end of 2006 or early 2007, including 
approval of the provincial election law, approval of a new de-
baathification law, and approval of a new militia law. Not one of those 
laws has been enacted.

On January 30, Secretary Rice wrote to me about these benchmarks. She 
said the Iraqi Government had adopted a lot of benchmarks, and she 
attached those benchmarks to her letter called ''Notional Political 
Timeline.''

Here is what she said about the benchmarks attached to her letter:





. . . Iraq's Policy Committee on National Security agreed 


 upon a set of political, security, and economic benchmarks 


 and an associated timeline in September 2006.


Then she said:




 These were reaffirmed by the Presidency Council on October 


 16, 2006, and referenced by the Iraq Study Group; the 


 relevant document (enclosed) was posted at that time on the 


 President of Iraq's website.


The posted document shows one benchmark after another, starting in 
September 2006, going through March of 2007, and I am going to read 
them off.

By September 2006:




 Form a Constitutional Review Committee;



 Approve the law and procedures to form regions;



 Agree on political timetable;



 Approve the law for Independent High Electoral Commission 


 (IHEC);



 Approve the Investment Law.


By October 2006:




 Approve provincial elections law and set date for 


 provincial elections;



 Approve a hydrocarbon law.


By November 2006:




 Approve a de-Ba'athification law;



 Approve provincial council authorities law;



 Approve a flag, emblem and national anthem law.


By December 2006:




 Approve Coalition Provisional Authority . . . concerning 


 armed forces and militias;



 Council of Representatives to address amnesty, militias and 


 other armed formations;



 Approve amnesty, militias and other armed formations law.


By January 2007--this was the timeline--




 Constitutional Review Committee completes its work.


By February 2007:




 Form independent commissions in accordance with the 


 Constitution.


By March:




 Constitutional amendments referendum (if required).


Now, there may have been one or two of those guidelines met. If so, I 
am not sure what they are, but I want to at least allow the possibility 
that a flag, emblem, and national anthem law was adopted. But of those 
perhaps 15 milestones--and a timeline for them--to be adopted by the 
Iraqi Presidency, not more than one--but maybe two--of the 15 have been 
adopted. And none of the important ones have been adopted.

We are told by Secretary Rice, that was on the Web site of the 
President of Iraq. Then suddenly and mysteriously it disappeared from 
that Web site a few months ago.

When I asked Secretary Rice--I wrote her a letter asking: You said, 
Madam Secretary, this was on the Web site, but it disappeared from the 
Web site. Can you find out why? We have not heard back from the 
Secretary of State about that problem.

So much for the promises and commitments and milestones of the Iraqi 
leadership. They post them on a Web site month by month what these 
promises and commitments and milestones and benchmarks are, and then--
poof--they disappear from the Web site, just as though they were not 
made. That is the problem with milestones, benchmarks which have no 
consequences when they are not met.



The President talks about benchmarks, and yet he has not outlined any 
consequences for the Iraqis if they fail to meet these new benchmarks. 
I have little hope they will meet benchmarks they lay out unless they 
see no alternative. It is time to go beyond the toothless benchmarks 
and to make clear to the Iraqi leaders their dawdling must end and that 
their nation is in their hands, and we cannot decide for them how to 
build a nation, whether to build a nation, or whether they prefer to 
have a civil war.

The administration says our debate on this bill would embolden the 
enemy. But what that shows is a serious lack of understanding of the 
situation we face. Congressional debate over Iraq policy does not 
embolden the enemy. The enemy is already emboldened. The enemy is 
emboldened by an open-ended presence of western troops in a Muslim 
country's capital, which serves as a magnet for extremists and gives a 
propaganda club to our enemies.

The enemy is emboldened by an invasion of Iraq without the support of 
the international community, and with no plan for a violent aftermath. 
The enemy is emboldened by a million and a half Iraqi refugees, with 
thousands more being added each day. The enemy is emboldened by a surge 
of American troops into a civil war that postpones the day when Iraqi 
leaders will take responsibility for their own future.

And now our responsibility as a Congress. What is our responsibility? 
What this resolution does is implement our responsibility by working to 
make the day when Iraqi leaders take responsibility for their own 
nation come sooner rather than later. The most recent intelligence 
estimate says ''the current security and political trends in Iraq are 
moving in a negative direction.''

Our resolution is the best way to stop the Iraqi leaders from 
continuing to fiddle while Baghdad burns. It would seek to pressure the 
Iraqi leaders to achieve a political solution by requiring our 
President to promptly transition the mission of American forces in Iraq 
to protecting United States and coalition personnel and infrastructure, 
to training and equipping Iraqi forces, and to conducting targeted 
counterterrorism operations.

Our resolution would require the President to begin the phased 
redeployment of United States forces from Iraq not later than 120 days 
after enactment, with the goal--I emphasize ''goal''--of redeploying 
all United States combat forces by March 31, 2008, except for--except 
for--those that are needed to carry out the three missions which are 
described in the resolution, and which I have just outlined. That goal 
and the three limited missions are the same as the goal and the limited 
missions recommended by the Iraq Study Group.

Passing this resolution would deliver a cold dose of reality to the 
Iraqi leaders and would tell them we are not going to be their security 
blanket without end. When they finally understand our military presence 
in Iraq is neither permanent nor unconditional, then--and only then--
are they likely to take the political steps necessary to deal with 
sectarian violence and to defeat the insurgency.

By shifting responsibility to the Iraqis for their own future and 
their own country, this resolution does what is needed the most--it 
puts pressure on the Iraqis to reach a political settlement.

As we consider the future of our involvement in Iraq, we must always 
be mindful of the price our military and their families are paying as a 
result of multiple deployments of units and people to Iraq. We must be 
mindful that the lack of attention to Afghanistan and Pakistan has 
allowed al-Qaida and the Taliban to regroup and strengthen. We must 
also be mindful that our nondeployed forces lack the equipment and 
other resources needed to maintain an acceptable level of readiness, 
and, as a result, the risk our Nation faces has substantially 
increased.

We must be tragically mindful, always, that the pledge to take care 
of those courageous soldiers and marines, who have sustained serious 
physical and mental injuries in combat, has been broken by this 
administration.

In recent days, there have been statements suggesting a debate in 
Congress on the war in Iraq is undermining the troops. Just last 
Monday, Vice President Cheney said, among other things, that:




 When Members of Congress pursue an antiwar strategy . . . 


 they are not supporting the troops, they are undermining 


 them.


Contrast the Vice President's statement with statements Secretary of 
Defense Gates and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Pace 
made recently on February 7 before the House Armed Services Committee.

Here is what Secretary Gates said:




 I would tell you that I think that our troops do understand 


 that everybody involved in this debate is looking to do the 


 right thing for our country and for our troops, and that 


 everybody is looking for the best way to avoid an outcome 


 that leaves Iraq in chaos. And I think our troops are 


 sophisticated enough to understand that that's what the 


 debate's really about. It's about the path forward in Iraq.


Here is what General Pace said, and contrast this to what Vice 
President Cheney said--how worthy Secretary Gates' statement is--and 
listen to how worthy General Pace's statement is compared to the stale 
and unworthy comments of the Vice President of the United States about 
what this debate signifies.

General Pace:




 There is no doubt in my mind that the dialogue here in 


 Washington strengthens our democracy. Period.


And then he added:




 From the standpoint of the troops, I believe that they 


 understand how our legislature works and they understand that 


 there is going to be this kind of debate.


When I listened to the Vice President and his unworthy remarks, it 
reminded me of not only how worthy our troops are and how they are 
professional enough to understand what their duty is, but also that 
they are loyal Americans to know and understand that it is our duty to 
debate this war. For those of us who think it is leading in the wrong 
direction and going nowhere, it is on a road to failure, it is our duty 
to try to change that course.

Contrast our troops and their honor and their loyalty to the 
principles upon which this Nation was founded, reflected, interestingly 
enough, in a poll taken of our military by the Military Times. This 
poll was printed in the Army Times a few months ago. The question that 
was asked of our troops was whether they approve of the President's 
handling of the war in Iraq. Forty-two percent of our troops 
disapproved of the President's handling of the war in Iraq. Thirty-five 
percent of our troops approved of the handling of the war by their 
Commander in Chief. They are divided as Americans are divided. We 
should not only respect their bravery, we should respect their 
intelligence and their commitment to this debate in the Congress. That 
is what they are fighting for: that we can debate a mission and we can 
debate how to best secure this country so that we can debate how to 
best succeed in Iraq.

That is what our troops believe in. That is what they are fighting 
for. It is insulting to them. It is insulting to them to say, as the 
Vice President of the United States said, that a debate in the United 
States Congress as to how best to succeed in Iraq, how best to change 
the course in Iraq, somehow or other undermines the troops.

So we have before us an opportunity, an opportunity which can only be 
achieved if this debate can advance beyond the motion to proceed. We 
will be voting on that motion later on today or tomorrow. I hope that 
Senators, regardless of our views on this war, will allow this Senate 
to once again debate the direction in Iraq. The last real vote we had 
was one that denied us this opportunity to proceed. I hope there will 
be enough of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle who will 
recognize the importance of this debate to this future--the future of 
this country, to the future of this world, perhaps; to the lives of so 
many of our gallant, brave troops and their families, and perhaps, 
indeed, to the future well-being of this institution because this 
institution surely should be about debating issues as transcendently 
important as our future in Iraq.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that some correspondence 
between myself and Secretary Rice, and Senator McCain and myself with 
Secretary Rice be printed in the Record.