# IRAQ
## `ea2073901d51ad789a365e7701326401`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. I thank the Chair.

Mr. President, last evening the Republicans said no to an honest 
debate about what is best for our troops in Iraq, our national 
security, and for the American people. Our men and women in uniform 
have done everything that we have asked them to do. They have served 
with dignity, honor, and valor. They have served in Iraq longer than 
American forces fought in World War II. It has been said by Republicans 
and Democrats: This doesn't cry for a military solution, it cries for a 
political solution and resolution. Still we have a President who is 
relying on sending an additional 20,000 to 38,000 troops more to what 
is effectively a civil war.

The cost in blood and treasure has been staggering. More than 3,000 
Americans have been killed so far, including


64 from Massachusetts; more than 23,000 have been wounded. In my home 
community, SGT Alexander Fuller of Centerville, MA, was buried last 
week; Keith Callahan of Woburn, MA--Woburn, MA, that had a higher 
percentage of soldiers killed in Vietnam than any other community in 
our State. High school class after high school class after high school 
class joined the U.S. Marines. They were in the thick of the fighting 
with devastating losses. Keith Callahan, in his fourth trip to Iraq, 
was killed just 10 days ago. The services in that community took place 
last week.

Hundreds of thousands of Iraqis have been killed, and millions have 
fled their homes. We have spent hundreds of billions of dollars on the 
war already. Today the President is asking for hundreds of billions of 
dollars more. President Bush insists on his policy of escalation, while 
most of us in Congress are increasingly convinced that deescalation is 
the only realistic strategy. The American people do not support further 
escalation of this war. The legislation on which we seek an honest 
debate is intended to make a record of who is on the side of the 
American people and opposes sending tens of thousands more American 
troops into this civil war.

Despite the clear result of the November election, our Republican 
colleagues are not prepared to face the truth on Iraq. They are 
determined to avoid a debate on the most important national security 
issue of our time. They are willing to allow tens of thousands of more 
young men and women to be dropped in the cauldron of a civil war.

The cost in precious American lives is reason enough to end this 
mistaken and misguided war, but the cost at home came into full view 
yesterday as we received the President's budget. This President's 
budget devotes more than $200 billion to the war in Iraq. Where does 
the money come from? It comes from the Children's Health Insurance 
Program, as the President's budget underfunds the CHIP program by $8 
billion. That program provides health care to low-income children. It 
has had bipartisan support in the Senate and the House of 
Representatives. It has made an extraordinary difference to the quality 
of health of millions of children. There are millions of children who 
are qualified for this program. But because the Federal Government 
doesn't provide the help to the States, those children are not going to 
get covered.


Make no mistake about it. We are taking those resources that ought to 
be devoted to the CHIP program and sending them to Iraq. It comes from 
our children's education, the No Child Left Behind Act, because this 
budget underfunds the No Child Left Behind reforms by almost $15 
billion. What are we saying? We are not going to get the well-trained 
teachers that this legislation requires. We are not going to have the 
adequacy of supplementary services to help those children in high 
school. We are not going to move toward smaller class sizes. We are not 
going to have an effective program to bring in parents. We are not 
going to have the examination of these children to find out what they 
need in terms of help in their classes. No, because we are shipping 
billions of dollars to Iraq.

Twenty-three thousand children are in the streets of Philadelphia 
today, having dropped out of school; 22,000 children have dropped out 
of school in Cleveland, OH. It is happening all over the country. And 
what are we doing? Sending away billions and billions of dollars that 
ought to be there for prevention programs to stop those children from 
dropping out of school, to help those children get back into school so 
they will have useful and productive lives. They are the ones who are 
paying for these wars.

As to seniors, our disabled citizens, the President cut $66 billion 
from the Medicaid Program which is a lifeline to millions of retirees 
and disabled children. I was there when President Johnson said: You 
work hard, you pay into the Medicare Program, pay into those programs, 
and we guarantee you that you are going to have the health care you 
need for the rest of your life. That is a commitment that we made. Now 
we are skimping on it. We didn't provide at that time a prescription 
drug program. We provided one eventually that served more for the drug 
industry and the HMOs than it did for the senior citizens. We are 
cutting back on health care for our seniors and the disabled.

It comes from our workers who are looking for good jobs to support 
their families because the President's budget slashes $1 billion from 
programs that train Americans for jobs for the future. How many 
speeches will we hear about competitiveness and the problems we are 
facing in terms of the world economy, how we are going to have to 
redouble our efforts in order to be competitive, to have the new 
industries that will provide new jobs and new benefits and new 
opportunities for our citizens. Every Member of this body will be 
making that speech someplace in their State next week. We know that. 
What are we doing?

In my State of Massachusetts, we have 275,000 people who are 
unemployed, and we have 78,000 job vacancies. The only thing that is 
lacking is training. We have 24 applications for every opening for 
training. People want the training to get the skills to participate and 
take care of their families. What does this President do? He cuts that 
program. That is part of the cost.

People are asking back home--down in New Bedford and Fall River and 
Lowell and Lawrence and Holyoke and Springfield--who is going to stand 
up for us? It is not only the loss of their sons and daughters from 
those communities, but they see that it is gutting the lifelines to 
their communities, the children and the elderly, those who are the most 
vulnerable in our society. They are paying the price. Read the 
President's budget. Make no mistake about it. Who is paying the price? 
They are paying the price, the neediest people in our society.

Then it comes from the poor who are struggling against the bitter 
cold. It cuts 17 percent of the funding for the Low Income Energy 
Assistance Program that helps low-income families heat their homes. 
Maybe it is warm in certain parts of this country, but it is cold as 
can be in many others. There are a lot of needy people in those cold 
areas where there is a completely inadequate fuel assistance program 
now. This administration has cut back on that program year after year 
after year, and this year is no different, a 17-percent reduction.

Most of the elderly people, the needy people in my State, need to 
have their oil tanks, if they are using home heating oil, filled three 
times a year. This won't even let them get one tank of fuel assistance 
in their homes over the year. The poor are paying a fearsome price. 
They are seeing their funding diverted to these conflicts and the surge 
in Iraq.

This is a war that never should have happened. It is a war that 
should be brought to an end. Yet the administration is allowing it to 
go on and on, mistake after mistake after mistake. This terrible war is 
having an effect not only on our troops, who are paying the highest 
price, but on our children, our elderly, our schools, our workers, and 
the poorest of the poor here at home. Make no mistake about it. While 
the President forges ahead with a surge in Iraq, the American people 
need a surge at home. Americans see the cost of their health care and 
the cost of college going up. What about a surge in our health and 
education policy to help meet their needs? What about a surge in those 
areas?

I have introduced legislation which would require the President to 
get the authority he needs from Congress before moving forward with 
further escalation in Iraq. I intend to seek a vote on it, unless the 
President changes course. The debate is about what is best for our 
troops and our national security. Our forces have served with great 
valor. They have done everything they have been asked to do. Sending 
more of them into a civil war will not make success any more likely. We 
have a responsibility to vote on this issue before it is too late. The 
American people deserve to know where the Republicans stand and where 
the representatives in the Congress stand.

I look forward to that debate and a vote at the earliest possible 
time.

I yield the floor.
