---
---

# None
## `ea39c0261e4dec5d926c292d8eb7b084`
`Mr. SKELTON — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding to 
me.

Of course, I rise in support of the rule for this conference report, 
the National Defense Authorization Act. I will speak more at length on 
this issue later today after we have the privilege of passing the rule 
on this floor. But, I must say, Madam Speaker, that in my years of 
being here in the Congress, this is the most comprehensive, well 
thought-out and studied authorization bill that we have had. It's 
excellent for the troops, it's excellent for the families, and their 
health care. It makes great strides in the area of readiness.

I just feel like bragging on all the members of the House Armed 
Services Committee on both sides of the aisle. Of course, it couldn't 
be done without the crackerjack staff that we have, and we are just 
absolutely blessed with the dedicated staff that we have, Erin Conaton, 
who's the staff director. We owe all of the members of the staff our 
great appreciation.

This has been months of hard work. We have a proud tradition in the 
Armed Services Committee as being bipartisan. It helps with the 
problems of readiness, including equipment, training and people. It 
gives an across-the-board 3.5 percent pay raise, protects them from 
escalating fees for health care. It includes over 100 measures, large 
and small, for quality of life. We combined the best elements of the 
Wounded Warrior Act that was passed here in the House by 426-0, as well 
as a companion bill that passed the Senate.

We have many parts of this bill that are new, which will help us in 
the area of national security all the more. I


will, at length, discuss them when we take the bill up at a later 
moment today.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the rule on the conference report 
for H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 
2008. I will speak at more length about this bill later today.

This legislation represents the outcome of months of hard work by the 
House Armed Services Committee and our colleagues in the other body. It 
is a good bill and it is a bipartisan bill in the proud tradition of 
the Armed Services Committee. It is good for our troops and their 
families. It will help improve the readiness of our Armed Forces, who 
face dire problems with all elements of readiness including equipment, 
training, and people. And it will bring significant new oversight to 
the Department of Defense in areas where oversight is sorely needed.

Let me just mention a few high points.

H.R. 1585 includes a 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise for the 
troops, protects them from escalating fees for health care, and 
includes well over 100 other measures, both large and small, to improve 
their quality of life. Just as important, it upholds the debt of honor 
the nation owes to its injured and fallen veterans, by combining the 
best elements of the Wounded Warrior Act which passed the House 426-0, 
and a companion bill which passed the Senate.

To address the readiness crisis, it establishes a new, high level 
board of military officers, the Defense Materiel Readiness Board, to 
grapple with the growing, dramatic shortfalls confronting the Armed 
Forces. The committee also made a special effort to authorize the most 
money possible for readiness accounts.

Critically, this bill will bring much needed oversight to the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. It follows up on the bipartisan investigation of 
Iraqi Security Forces by the committee's reinstated Oversight & 
Investigations Subcommittee by increasing reporting relating to Iraqi 
Security Forces and requiring real accountability for weapons 
transferred to that nation. And it institutes, for the first time, 
regular progress reports to Congress on the war in Afghanistan, where 
our critical national interests remain deeply challenged by those who 
attacked us on September 11. The bill also creates a new Special 
Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction.

Finally, this bill takes significant strides to ensure that the 
Department of Defense is able to posture itself to address new threats. 
The bill includes $17.6 billion for mine resistant ambush protected 
(MRAP) vehicles to protect our troops in Iraq and in future conflicts. 
It increases funding for shipbuilding by almost a billion dollars. The 
bill also adds 8 C-17s to help meet the demands for global power 
projection in today's world.

In closing, I ask my colleagues to support this rule and to support 
the conference report when we consider it later today.