---
---

# IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST
## `ea41378c4d02ed8fa20d39e7115e6a3f`
`Mr. PEARCE — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. Thank you, Mr. King. I appreciate the work that you're 
doing on this issue on the eve of 9/11.

It behooves us all to remember exactly what happened. It behooves us 
all to remember the loss of that 1 day, and like my friend from Georgia 
says, over $2 trillion in loss from America's asset base that day, and 
even worse, the 3,000 lives that were lost.

I went to Iraq on Thursday evening. We left after votes on Thursday, 
flew all night long, and ended up in Iraq on Saturday and Sunday. And 
we spent the night in Baghdad on Saturday night and Sunday visiting 
with the troops and visiting with Iraqis.

I was struck by the cautious optimism that General Petraeus related 
to us today, a very cautious optimism that the trend lines are 
favorable, that we're seeing some lessening of violence, and that's the 
sort of things that I found there from the troops in the country. I 
wanted to visit with our soldiers one on one. I had the opportunity to 
ride into Baghdad with troops who were going for the first time. I sat 
across from a Captain Serrano from Chicago and was able to talk to her 
about the 2-year-old daughter that waits at home for her. Her husband,


who is engaged in going through sheriff's training to hopefully work 
for the sheriff's department there. And we're asking the sacrifice of 
young men and women daily to be there and stand in the gap to stand 
between the terrorists and ourselves.

I have one of my friends who says, I hear America is at war. He said, 
America is not at war, America is at the mall, our military is at war. 
I think if we've made a mistake since 9/11, it's in failing to accept 
our responsibility individually, every single one of us, our 
responsibility to be engaged in this problem, because we are literally 
fighting for the future of freedom throughout the world. The terrorists 
who hate us hate our way of life. They hate our freedoms. They hate the 
films that come out from the West. They think they're corrupting their 
young people. They think that our society is decadent and that we're 
corrupting their cultures, so they simply want to annihilate us. That's 
the difference between a democracy or a republic and the tyrannical 
states of radical jihad that say that we will annihilate the West and 
we will annihilate America and Americans.

I remember, on this eve of 9/11, President Bush's three goals. It was 
very simple. He said, first of all, if you harbor a terrorist, you are 
a terrorist. But then he said we're going to do three things: We're 
going to uproot the terrorist training camps that exist throughout the 
Arab world. We're going to stop the training and the production of new 
radicals. The second thing he said is we're going to stop the funds 
that flow from supposedly legitimate compassionate organizations when 
actually they're funding terrorists. So we're going to uproot the 
training camps, we're going to stop the funding of terrorists, and 
finally, we're going to take the fight to the terrorists.

Now, there are many on the left who say that Iraq is not about the 
terrorists. The terrorists are coming in from Syria, they're coming in 
from around the world, they're coming in from Iran. This is the site 
where we are fighting terrorists. Now, maybe it began that way, maybe 
it didn't begin that way, but it's the way it is now. And if we walk 
away from that country, the general consensus is that Iraq will fall 
within days to the terrorists, to the terrorist state of Iran.

After Iraq falls, we're going to see difficulties in Egypt and 
Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, Qatar. And pretty soon you can see 
that every one of our friends in the Arab world is at risk. And there 
are people who ask me, well, how could those countries fall? Just 
remember back to 1979 when the shah of Iran was making great progress 
in westernizing that country, and in a matter of days was thrown from 
power, his whole government collapsed. We stood by, President Jimmy 
Carter stood by and did not lift a finger for our friends. And that's 
exactly how the falls will occur at this state.

The difference is that now we import over 60 percent of our oil, and 
most of it comes from the Middle East. If those countries fall, the 
terrorists have said they're going to cut the supply of oil off to the 
world. They will plunge the world economy into chaos. And that's how 
they're going to create the economic destruction of the United States 
and of the West.

I went to Israel earlier this year. They said if you leave Iraq, you 
will allow us to fall, because they saw the same scenario that I'm 
repeating, that all of our friends in the Middle East will fall, and 
then ultimately Israel says ''we will fall.'' Now, my personal belief 
is that Israel is our first line of defense against terrorists. They've 
been fighting since their inception against radical jihads in the 
Middle East. They are our first line of defense, and if they fall, what 
calamity and what terrors await for us in this country? There are many 
who say that it's just a fabrication, that it's not true, and yet we 
see the signs all around us.

As I visited with our troops in Iraq over this past weekend, I 
conveyed one message, that we thank you. We thank you for your service 
and we thank you for your sacrifice. We thank you for serving your 
country honorably, and we thank you for serving your country well. As 
the gentleman from Iowa mentioned, this is one of the messages of 
General Petraeus, that this may be the best military the United States 
has ever had.

I do not believe the terrorists can win. I do believe that there are 
those in this Congress and those in this country who can cause this 
magnificent military to fail. And if they fail, I don't know where the 
hope for humanity comes. I don't see any other country in the world 
willing to fight for freedom and to fight to resist the radical jihad 
that threatens us all; to fight to resist and to fight to retaliate 
from circumstances like 9/11/01.

So that's what we're doing today is remembering those events 6 years 
ago, remembering what our responses were and what our anger was on that 
evening as we contemplated the events of the day. Both sides, Democrat 
or Republican, in those days were of the same mind, that we need to get 
to the terrorists before they get to us. I'm not sure where we came off 
of the rails and where we've lost so much consensus. It's not good for 
the United States and it's not good for the world because we're still 
in a very difficult circumstance fighting a very difficult battle, one 
that General Petraeus today said is going to be awfully hard.

It's going to be a long struggle, and it's a struggle that will be up 
and down. He believes our young military men and women are sufficient 
to the task. I do also. So I would yield back to the gentleman from 
Iowa by saying thanks to our troops. I hope that we all keep them in 
our thoughts and prayers.

God bless you to the troops, and God bless America. I thank the 
gentleman from Iowa.