---
---

# DISABLED VETERANS HOME IMPROVEMENT AND STRUCTURAL ALTERATION GRANT  INCREASE ACT OF 2009
## `ea4f06762ddd7ae70736fbda0483222a`
`Mr. BUYER — 27 July 2009`

---


Mr. BUYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1293, the Disabled 
Veterans Home Improvement and Structural Alteration Grant Increase Act 
of 2009.

H.R. 1293 is a bill I introduced to increase the amount payable to a 
disabled veteran under the Department of Veterans Affairs, VA, Home 
Improvement and Structural Alteration Program.

Known as the HISA grant, this is a significant benefit that provides 
seriously disabled veterans the ability to make home alterations to 
receive in-home medical care.

Congress first authorized VA to establish the HISA program as part of 
outpatient care for home health services in 1973. The benefit is paid 
from the medical care appropriation and is available to both veterans 
with service-connected and non-service connected disabilities. A 
service-connected veteran can receive a HISA grant in addition to other 
home adaptations grants available through the Veterans Benefits 
Administration.

We have been engaged in the Global War on Terror for nearly eight 
years and are seeing an increasing number of servicemembers returning 
from Iraq and Afghanistan utilizing VA health care.

Last year, a joint Department of Defense, DOD, and VA Inspectors 
Generals review of the care transition process for injured OEF/OIF 
service members found that continuity of care was hindered by the 
inability of an injured active duty service member to obtain a HISA 
grant prior to discharge. Responding to this need, we enacted Public 
Law 110-289 to allow VA to provide such grants to eligible service 
members prior to their discharge from military service.

However, we did not raise the amount of the grant which is currently 
$4,100 for service-connected veterans and $1,200 for non-service 
connected veterans. In fact, the ceiling has not been raised since 
1992.

H.R. 1293 would raise the maximum amount of a HISA grant to $6,800 
for service-connected veterans and $2,000 for non-service connected 
veterans. The proposed increase reflects an additional 3 percent for 
each year since 1992 to account for inflation and the increased cost of 
making home improvements--a long overdue 66 percent increase.

It is important that we make sure that VA benefits, such as the HISA 
grant stay relevant and adequately meet the needs of today's veterans.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1293. It is a good bill that 
shares bipartisan support.