---
---

# JOSHUA OMVIG SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `ea681782baec1fc26050cb111f9dc567`
`Mr. HARKIN — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I appreciate the sensitivity of the 
Senator from Nevada, our distinguished majority leader, on this issue.

Basically, what the bill does, again as I said, is to boost training 
for all Department of Veterans Affairs staff, contractors, and medical 
personnel, teaching them to identify risk factors for suicide and refer 
veterans to the appropriate mental health counseling and mental health 
centers.

As I said at the outset, this has been the most bipartisan piece of 
legislation I can imagine. Senator Grassley and I introduced it in the 
Senate, appropriately since Joshua Omvig was from Iowa. We have 30 
different cosponsors from both sides of the aisle. It was introduced in 
the other body by Congressman Leonard Boswell of Iowa, who is the 
Congressman from the district in which Joshua Omvig lived. In fact, it 
is that version of the bill we are trying to pass today.

I may have misspoke earlier. He secured 152 bipartisan cosponsors of 
the bill. It passed the House in March by a vote of 423 to 0. No 
Republican objected over there. No one; 423, not a single dissenting 
vote. That is why I was so surprised and, quite frankly, dismayed when 
an objection was raised on the other side of the aisle preventing 
passage of the bill before the August recess.

How many more veterans have committed suicide since that time who 
might have been, through counseling,


through outreach, through some way given the appropriate support 
services so they wouldn't have to commit suicide?

This morning, the Senator from Oklahoma, Mr. Coburn, offered several 
reasons for his objection. That is what I would like to respond to now.

He mentioned that the bill is duplicative of the VA's plans to 
prevent suicide and that veterans' receipt of benefits would be 
contingent on the screening. He also raised concerns about the validity 
of the peer counseling provisions of the bill. Finally, he expressed 
concern that if the VA asked veterans about their mental health, this 
information might be used to inhibit their ability to purchase 
handguns. All of these concerns are unfounded, and I want to explain.

In 2004, the VA developed a series of suicide prevention initiatives 
as part of a comprehensive mental health strategic plan. All well and 
good. Unfortunately, very few of the initiatives have been implemented. 
During the first 2 years following development of the plan, a 
Government Accountability Office report found that the VA did not even 
spend $100 million of the $300 million that was specifically allocated 
for this initiative. One-third of the money specifically allocated was 
not spent.

I think our veterans have paid a steep price, a tragic price for this 
foot dragging. When the VA has announced plans to undertake suicide 
prevention initiatives, usually it is in response to some highly 
publicized incident. They usually announce the plans and then they do 
not follow through.

For example, in February the VA finally announced it would put 
suicide prevention crisis counselors in VA facilities. That was only 
after the tragic, high-profile suicide of Jonathan Schulze, a marine 
who received two Purple Hearts for his service in Iraq. When Schulze 
informed his local VA facility that he was thinking about killing 
himself, he was told he was 26th on the local VA's waiting list for VA 
mental health services. He went home and killed himself that night. In 
response to that, the VA said: We are going to put VA suicide 
prevention crisis counselors in all VA facilities.

Although they announced it, 7 months later they have still not fully 
implemented this initiative. Yes, if there is a tragic case like that, 
the VA will come out and say they are going to do things. Seven months 
later they still have not implemented the initiative.

What would our bill do, the Omvig Act? The Omvig Act would require 
the Veterans' Administration to designate a suicide prevention 
counselor at each medical facility. No more foot dragging; it would 
require them to do that right now.

In late July, the VA announced the implementation of a 24-hour 
suicide prevention hotline. That is also in the Joshua Omvig bill. That 
VA plan has been around since 2004. Three years later they say they are 
finally going to put it into effect. I suppose that is some kind of 
progress. But by writing this very sensible provision into law, we will 
ensure that the VA does not backslide on this either. As part of its 
2004 strategic plan, the VA set a plan to train all front-line staff on 
suicide prevention. In 2004, they said that. They still have failed to 
provide this training. Maybe that is what the Senator from Oklahoma is 
saying is duplicative. Yes, we say you have to have a 24-hour suicide 
hotline. The VA said they were going to do that in 2004. They said they 
were finally going to implement it in July. It still isn't manned, and 
the counselors they said they were going to have do that in February, 7 
months later they haven't done that. We say you have to do it. Is that 
duplicative? No, it is putting into law and mandating that the VA has 
to do this.

The Omvig Act directs the Secretary to ensure that staff members have 
the training necessary to identify risk factors for suicide and to make 
appropriate referrals for assistance. Is that too much to ask? Is that 
too burdensome for veterans who put their lives on the line in 
Afghanistan and Iraq and other places? It just says the staffs have to 
have the training necessary to identify risk factors for suicide to 
make appropriate referrals for assistance.

The VA said they were going to do that in 2004, but they never have. 
Because they have not done this, many Armed Forces personnel who have 
been discharged and have VA benefits are not receiving these services. 
The Omvig family and numerous veterans support groups testified during 
our hearings about the importance of outreach to reduce the stigma 
associated with mental health issues and to assist veterans and their 
families in transitioning to civilian life. This legislation, the Omvig 
bill, would establish a program to provide education and outreach to 
families to help them identify symptoms of mental health problems and 
to encourage families to seek assistance.

The VA inspector general issued a report this May, confirming that 
the VA is falling short of the necessary system-wide implementation of 
suicide prevention programs--their own inspector general. They found 
that many VA clinics lacked properly trained staff. Need I repeat 
myself? They did not provide 24-hour services and provided inadequate 
mental health screening. That is their own inspector general.

The inspector general also found that the VA had not established best 
practices research to ensure a standard of suicide prevention.

The Omvig bill addresses all these issues. The aim of the bill is to 
improve early detection and intervention, provide access to services 
for veterans in crisis and thereby prevent suicide among those who have 
put their lives on the line to defend our Nation.

The Senator from Oklahoma objected. He expressed concern that the 
receipt of benefits would be contingent on the screening, and that 
there is no opt-out provision. Let's look at this. The fact is, the 
Department of Defense already requires soldiers returning from 
deployment to complete a checklist of symptoms such as anxiety, 
difficulty sleeping, suicidal thoughts. There are no opt-outs for this 
mental health screening because these programs are critical to ensure 
that those with mental health concerns receive the assistance they 
need.

The DOD, the Department of Defense, says if you are going to be 
redeployed, you have to have mental health screening--no opt-out. We 
are saying the screening provision in the Omvig bill does not mandate a 
formal checklist of mental health symptoms. It just ensures that 
medical professionals incorporate questions about veterans' mental 
health into primary care visits. In other words, what we are trying to 
say is mental health care should be integrated into primary health 
care. That is all we are saying.

Just as a medical professional would ask questions about risk factors 
for heart disease, it is responsible medicine to ask about risk factors 
for suicide, especially among this group since the data show how high 
it is, how high the incidence is of suicide.

Doctors ask their patients all the time if they are getting enough 
exercise and eating healthy. They should also ask if a veteran is 
sleeping well and if they have been anxious. These questions are 
critical in order for doctors to get a full picture of the veteran's 
health and well-being.

I want to make it very clear, the bill does not make the receipt of 
benefits contingent on veterans undergoing a separate mental health 
screening. Rather, it merely seeks to incorporate into their screening 
process, into their primary health care process, this process, that the 
health professionals are incorporating appropriate questions about 
suicide risk into their practice. Not to do this is totally 
irresponsible.

The Senator from Oklahoma also mentioned his concern that the peer 
counseling provisions in the bill are not effective. Again, I am 
surprised by this as there is a large body of research that peer 
support programs are effective in alleviating post-traumatic stress 
symptoms, PTSD symptoms and depression, reducing the likelihood of 
hospitalization and increasing social support. President Bush's New 
Freedom Commission on Mental Health recognizes peer support approaches 
as an emerging best practice in helping people to recover from 
traumatic events.


Who better to counsel with a soldier who has served in Iraq and had a 
lot of trauma, or from Afghanistan who had a lot of trauma, than a 
peer, one of their own peers to talk to them about it, or their 
families? Peer support approaches offer a low-cost and effective 
supplement to traditional services in which


transitioning veterans can talk to someone who had similar experiences 
and understands what they are going through. This is well-recognized, 
evidence-based service that allows veterans to talk to someone who had 
similar experiences and, as I said, understands what they are going 
through. How can there be an objection to that?

Finally, regarding the concern of the Senator about veterans' ability 
to access firearms, I am very puzzled. This bill ensures that the VA 
takes appropriate measures to follow up with veterans who are at risk 
for suicide. OK. There are strict privacy laws that govern the doctor-
patient relationship. Privacy laws prevent the release of information 
about any patient. There is an exception if the patient is a serious 
threat to himself or others, but no medical professional can refer an 
individual to the background check system that would limit access to 
firearms.

Let me repeat that: No medical professional can refer an individual 
to the background check system that would limit access to firearms. 
This can only be done through the judicial process. In other words, 
before an individual can be placed on the NICS list where they can't 
purchase a handgun--and this prevents an individual who is mentally ill 
from purchasing a firearm--a judge must make a determination that the 
individual belongs on that list.

As many of my colleagues are aware, there is legislation that has 
passed the House and was recently approved by the Judiciary Committee 
that would encourage States to do a better job reporting to the NICS 
system in the wake of the tragic shootings at Virginia Tech. If 
Senators have concerns about how the NICS system operates, it seems to 
me that legislation is the appropriate venue for those concerns. But to 
hold up the Omvig suicide prevention bill that delivers critical 
suicide prevention services to veterans based on concerns related to an 
unrelated pending bill is very troubling.

There is an editorial that appeared in the New York Times on August 
30. Let me read from that. Here is what the editorial in the New York 
Times said on August 30:




 As the Army's suicide rate hits record levels in the Iraq 


 war, there's small wonder practically everyone in Congress 


 wants to deal with the parallel emerging crisis of depressed 


 veterans tempted to take their own lives. Everyone, that is, 


 except Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma. He stands 


 alone in blocking final passage of a suicide prevention bill 


 in fear that the government's record-keeping on troubled vets 


 might somehow crimp their ability to purchase handguns.



 Even the craven gun lobby should manage some shame at this 


 example of Second Amendment idolatry. The House has 


 unanimously approved a measure mandating the screening of all 


 veterans for suicide risk, but Senator Coburn worries that 


 veterans' medical data might be appropriated by other 


 agencies to deny that all-encompassing right to wield arms on 


 the domestic front.


Again, the editorial goes on.




 The Senator's office points to another bill near passage--


 prompted by the Virginia Tech gun massacre--that would 


 encourage states to do a better job of listing mentally 


 troubled individuals on the Federal roll of risky gun 


 purchasers. But tying these two measures together is itself 


 evidence of defective reasoning, or at least scurrilous 


 politicking. The Virginia Tech measure has nothing to do with 


 veterans and affects only those Americans formally judged by 


 a court to be mentally disturbed.



 It is an eminently good thing that the anti-suicide 


 measures would require medical specialists to keep track of 


 veterans found to be high risks for suicide. But that's to 


 care for them as human beings, under that other 


 constitutional right to life--liberty and the pursuit of 


 happiness. Respect for the grave sacrifices by veterans 


 requires the Senate to strike down the Coburn ploy and hurry 


 this vital measure to President Bush.


Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the full editorial be 
printed in the Record.