# BELATED THANK YOU TO THE MERCHANT MARINERS OF WORLD WAR II ACT OF 2009
## `ea6b3eea5ea6ce69972123ae51ba9595`
`Mr. BUYER — 12 May 2009`

---


Mr. BUYER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise in opposition. I rise in opposition, and I would say to the 
chairman, as a history professor, I know that you must embrace history 
and not be a revisionist of history.

I'm greatly disappointed with regard to this legislation. I'm 
disappointed because this is an attempt to say that he wants to resolve 
an inequity through discrimination so that your bias towards one 
specific group is so strong among the veterans community that you will 
discriminate against others. And I will even use your example of your 
friend with regard to his service as a merchant mariner, as a prisoner 
of war building the bridge over the River Kwai. It means that other 
POWs who served with him would not be entitled to the special monthly 
payment, that you believe that that merchant mariner is so special that 
all other prisoners of war should not receive such payment.

You see, there's a reason that those of us who have worn the uniform 
do not do this. The only time we have provided a service pension, a 
service pension, are for Medal of Honor recipients. We do not provide 
service pensions, and that's exactly what this is. So we're paying 
$1,100 to Medal of Honor recipients, and you want to pay now $1,000 to 
merchant mariners. Yet there are 28 groups of whom are similarly 
situated, individuals of whom were contractor status during the war.

Now, we need to stop and pause and think about what we are doing 
here. Ever since the American Revolution, our government has utilized 
contractors as our combatants go to war. Whether it was in the 
Revolution, whether it was the War of 1812, the Mexican-American War, 
the Civil War, the Spanish-American War, World War I, World War II, 
Korea, Vietnam, the first Gulf War, and, in fact, the present wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, we all used contractors. So after World War II, 
we created a process whereby these contractors then could be granted 
that ''veteran status.'' So for merchant mariners, the question of 
their valor, even the question of their status has now been resolved.

What's before the House is now with regard to a particular group of 
veterans that we're going to treat them differently, that we're going 
to say that you have such unique status that we are going to give you a 
$1,000-a-month payment, a service pension, when, in fact, we don't even 
do that for anyone else.

So I am greatly disappointed that this type of legislation is brought 
to the floor. This is legislation that should never have been done. 
Members are just flying back now, so they aren't even sure about this 
legislation or what it's about, and they're thinking that, well, 
because it came out of the committee, it must be great legislation. It 
must be veterans legislation. We all must be arm in arm and let's go 
ahead and pass it. Time out. I think we should be very cautious and 
careful.

Like I said, we don't even give a specialty payment to prisoners of 
war, and we're going to select a particular group of individuals to 
give them.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time because I have 
further comments I would like to make.