---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ea7e85b65613833464e4e81011435c28`
`Mr. ROSS — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, September 11, 2001, was a day I will never 
forget. From my office window I saw the smoke rise from the Pentagon 
shortly before my staff, several constituents and I were evacuated. A 
few hours later, I would learn that a young naval petty officer from my 
district named Nahamon Lyons was among the casualties in that attack on 
the Pentagon. Picking up the phone and calling his mom, Mrs. Jewel 
Lyons, back in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, was one of the most difficult 
calls I have ever had to make.



There was no one who wants to put an end to terrorism more than I do. 
That is why I supported our President when he chose to send U.S. 
military forces to Afghanistan to go after those who attacked our 
Nation on 9/11.

I met with the President at his invitation in the White House on 
September 26, 2002, to hear his case for a preemptive strike in Iraq. I 
kept my notes from that important meeting, and this is what the 
President told us. He said that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass 
destruction; he said that Saddam Hussein trains terrorists on weapons 
of mass destruction; and he said that if military force is used it will 
be fierce, swift and tough. We now know that none of that information 
was accurate.

I do not know whether the President intentionally misled our Nation 
or received bad intelligence. Perhaps we will never know, but 
regardless, both possibilities trouble me.

Had I known that the information the President shared with me on 
September 26, 2002, was not accurate, I would have never given him the 
authority to use force in Iraq. At worst, the President misled us, and 
at best, our intelligence failed us.

There is not a more difficult decision Members of Congress must make 
than whether to send our brave men and women in uniform into harm's 
way. And when we are asked to make those decisions, we must know that 
our intelligence is correct.

We have all been personally touched by this war. I have a brother-in-
law in the United States Air Force who is currently serving in the 
Middle East. My first cousin was in Iraq when his wife gave birth to 
their first child.

I have also traveled to Walter Reed Medical Center and met with 
countless soldiers who have suffered life-altering injuries in combat, 
many from my home State of Arkansas. The most recent was a U.S. Marine, 
Staff Sergeant Marcus Wilson of Dermott, Arkansas, who recently lost 
his leg in Iraq.

And I have visited with too many families of soldiers who are not 
coming home.

On August 11, 2004, I visited Iraq when the 39th Infantry Brigade of 
Arkansas had over 3,000 soldiers stationed there, and if the President 
gets his way with this escalation of the war, they will be back in Iraq 
by early next year.

Let me be clear on one very important point. I strongly believe that 
as long as we have troops in harm's way we must support them. I also 
want to see to it that our government keeps its promises to our 
military veterans.

When we invaded Iraq, the President said we were doing so with the 
intent of removing the evil regime of Saddam Hussein from power and to 
find and eliminate his weapons of mass destruction. We have since 
learned that there were no weapons of mass destruction, and not only 
has Saddam's evil regime come to an end, but he has now been put to 
death.

So I ask, why are we still there? We now find ourselves spending 
nearly $9 billion a month to try and force our way of life on a people 
who live a long way from Arkansas.

Had I known then what I know now, I would never have voted to give 
the President authority to use force in Iraq and, instead, would have 
directed the full strength of our military to Afghanistan to go after 
Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda, those who actually attacked our Nation on 
9/11.

It is my duty as a U.S. Congressman to demand accountability from 
this administration, accountability for the decisions that are being 
made in Iraq, accountability for how these decisions are carried out, 
and accountability for how our hardworking taxpayers money is being 
spent.

Sending 21,000 new troops into Iraq is not a new direction. It is 
simply an escalation of the war.

I am not advocating that we leave Iraq tonight, but we must begin to 
accelerate the training of the Iraqi Army and police force and replace 
American soldiers on the front lines of this war with Iraqis.

I rise this evening in support of this resolution to stop the 
escalation of this war. We can no longer tolerate more of the same, and 
we must demand from this President, our Commander in Chief, a new 
strategy and a new direction in Iraq.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
