---
---

# None
## `ea81991afbd2319b4bff630ce791da81`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, for years I have spoken out and voted 
against wasteful Defense spending that often serves to make us less 
safe and takes money from more useful programs. I am concerned that 
there is still too much money in this legislation for unnecessary 
weapons systems and other outdated holdovers from the cold war and too 
little to deal with the challenges of today. However, I am pleased that 
this bill takes some steps in the direction of reform, and I hope that 
it provides a platform for further progress.

I support this bill because it includes provisions from the 
''Responsibility to Iraqi Refugees Act,'' which I introduced in May and 
which were added in the Senate as an amendment by Senator Kennedy. This 
bill will provide 5,000 special immigrant visas for each of the next 5 
years to Iraqis at risk because they helped the United States, require 
the Secretary of State to establish refugee processing in Iraq and 
other countries in the region, and direct the Secretary of State to 
designate a special coordinator at the Embassy in Baghdad.

We need a wholesale change in attitude that puts the needs of Iraqis 
at the forefront of our Iraq policy, rather than using them as pawns in 
political games. It is ironic, to be generous, to hear President Bush 
repeatedly talk about the humanitarian crisis and massive out-flows 
that would follow what he called a ''precipitous'' withdrawal. This 
only illustrates the state of denial over the humanitarian crisis 
currently happening.

This is one area where our moral responsibility to these unfortunate 
people can be used to bring together those of disparate viewpoints in a 
cooperative effort that might serve as a template for how we solve 
greater problems associated with the war. One of the burdens of those 
who would be world leaders and the responsibility of those who make war 
is to deal with the consequences of their decisions. Innocent victims 
of war and civil strife are too often the invisible and forgotten 
casualties.