# None
## `ea858e213499c54aab144f3ae85d46a3`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 13 July 2009`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President, I rise to affirm everything the Senator 
from Connecticut said. He made an articulate, detailed case for the F-
22, in opposition to the amendment. I commend him.

I wish to add three thoughts, three good reasons, for the F-22 and 
not to adopt the amendment: No. 1, when the U.S. Air Force wrote the 
RFP for the weapon system of the 21st century to replace three 
existing, aging aircraft, the F-22 met and exceeded every single part 
of the RFP. No. 2, for those who say the cost is some $2,000 an hour 
more for maintenance, you have to quantify that. Look what you are 
buying. You are buying stealth technology that exists nowhere else in 
the world and the ability to deliver munitions and leave without ever 
having been seen. Most recently, in Alaska, the F-22, in a mock battle, 
destroyed 144 aircraft before it lost its first one.

Lastly, and most importantly, while it may not be the plane exactly 
for Afghanistan and Iraq today, what about North Korea? What about 
Iran? What about what happened to us in the Balkans in the late 1990s, 
when President Clinton deployed our air strength to put together what 
was a terrible situation? We must be prepared for whatever will come in 
the 21st century. If there is anything we have learned, you cannot 
underestimate what may come. I commend the Senator for his articulate 
statement and affirm everything he said in support of not adopting the 
amendment and to continue to purchase the F-22 beyond the 187 currently 
being capped--or asked to be capped at. I commend the Senator for his 
remarks.