---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ea9f4a3dcaad970842c7367ee83ee44b`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, today we will begin a long 
overdue debate about the President's troop escalation plan, and the 
Iraq war in general. I spoke earlier this morning, and I had the 
opportunity to address some of the conflict between the testimony of 
experts and this administration's wishful thinking in regard to this 
escalation.

What is said here on the floor of Congress, what is said by our 
experts and what is said by the administration matters. It matters 
because our troops will be asked to fulfill the mission that comes out 
of these discussions. Our debate on this resolution is about far more 
than expressing our disapproval for the President. We offer this debate 
in the hopes that it will shape the mission that our soldiers are asked 
to carry out, one that is based on facts and reality, not blind 
ideology.

I retired from the Army National Guard in the spring of 2005, and the 
unit I served with is now in Iraq. Many of these soldiers were kids 
that I taught in my high school classroom, that I coached on our 
football team. They joined my Guard unit, and I trained them. We 
deployed together in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, and now 
they are deployed again to Iraq.

As a 24-year veteran of the Army National Guard, I know that our 
soldiers are trained to fulfill the mission they are given, but having 
a mission that is achievable is the key to any military success.

The previous Republican Congress failed to hold the administration 
accountable for providing a mission that could succeed; and in so 
doing, they failed to support our troops.

Last week, I had the opportunity to speak with a field commander from 
the Minnesota National Guard serving in Iraq. He told me that our 
soldiers are performing magnificently, every minute of every hour of 
every day. That is not the issue at hand here. The issue at hand is 
providing a mission that can succeed.

Mr. Speaker, when we recess for our district work period next week, I 
will go home and look into the eyes of the families of these soldiers. 
These are the same families and the men and women who learned on cable 
television that they would be extended in their tour of duty. These are 
the same men and women who will face financial loss because many of 
them had the plan to return to their jobs after an 18-month deployment 
to work in agriculture and construction businesses, and now they will 
be delayed in their return. They will miss the critical season. They 
have been deployed for 2/1/2/ of the last 4 years.

Mr. Speaker, we can and must do better by our soldiers. The 
resolution we will debate today and that I am in support of is meant as 
a first step to giving them an achievable mission and a chance to 
return. Our soldiers are trained to fulfill their mission without 
question. We as civilian leaders have a duty to question it on their 
behalf.

For the past 4 years, this Republican-led Congress has failed in 
their duty. This resolution is about this Congress standing up and 
saying we will achieve our duty to the same level of excellence that 
our soldiers have.