---
---

# BIPARTISAN EARMARK REFORM
## `eaa22e9c0b903593aadcf86acd3fa642`
`Mr. WOLF — 14 February 2008`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, the need for earmark reform should be an issue 
that we can all agree upon, a bipartisan agreement. As reported last 
week, Congress' approval rating fell to just 22 percent. Will the House 
sit idly by patting each other on the back as this issue continues to 
grow and be one that the American people care deeply about?

Quite frankly, the effort in the House to bring a level of 
transparency in the earmark process, as good as it may appear, has yet 
to satisfy the American


people. As a first step to restoring confidence in the earmark system, 
Congressman Jack Kingston, a member of the Appropriations Committee, 
Zack Wamp, a member of the committee, and myself have introduced H. 
Con. Res. 263, which calls for a joint select committee to review the 
earmark process, and it places a moratorium on all earmarks while the 
panel undertakes its work.

Congress holds the power of the purse, and, quite frankly, I don't 
believe the American people really want us to cede that authority to 
the executive branch. Under the Constitution, that is the job of the 
congressional branch. And while I believe that the majority of earmarks 
are for purposes which help people, those Members who oppose earmarks 
have made some legitimate claims, and they have to be addressed.

There have been positive earmarks to fight gangs, to fight the 
violent MS 13 gangs. We created an office of gang intelligence in the 
FBI to track the gang movement across the country, and there is a 
growing problem with regard to gangs.

The Iraq Study Group was an earmark, and that helped bring about 
fresh eyes on the target, if you will, bringing former Secretary of 
State Jim Baker and former cochairman of the 9/11 Commission, Lee 
Hamilton, along with Ed Meese, former Attorney General of the Reagan 
administration whose son is on the staff with General Petraeus over in 
Iraq, and people like Chuck Robb who is a former marine and Governor 
and Senator who fought in Vietnam. So it brought together a group of 
people to take a look at that, and 61 of the 70-some recommendations of 
the Iraq Study Group have been adopted now, and that basically was an 
earmark.

I also was told that the work that Dr. Francis Collins has done, and 
I may be wrong on this, but Dr. Collins has received the gold medal. He 
is the one who has mapped the human genome system. And there are people 
alive today because of the work that Dr. Collins has done. Dr. Collins 
will map those genes whereby we know that some individual with a 
certain gene may get a certain condition and now they can deal with 
that to save their life. So there have been some very positive ones.

But I think it is important to acknowledge that the Members who have 
opposed earmarks have made some legitimate claims, and they deserve 
that we look at those claims and address those claims.

The joint select committee on earmark reform, which is called for in 
the bill, would be comprised of 16 members, Mr. Speaker, evenly split 
between the House and the Senate, because whatever we do, the House and 
the Senate have to be together, also, between Republicans and 
Democrats. And I think the American people are thirsty. They are 
thirsty for some bipartisan activity out of this Congress. So we will 
come together, Republicans and Democrats, House and Senate, to form 
this committee.

The panel would examine the way the earmarks are included in 
authorizing bills, which has not been done, appropriation bills. And to 
the credit of the committee, there has been some work done on the 
appropriations. Also, tax and tariff measures. Also, what has not been 
done very well, executive branch earmarks would also be studied. I want 
to stress that again, because I think the Congress has ignored some of 
this and I think the general public doesn't understand, but this panel 
would also, Mr. Speaker, look at executive branch earmarks, reviewing 
earmarks in all bills considered by Congress. All bills is really the 
key.

The House, during this period of time, should place a moratorium on 
all earmarks until the joint select committee has finished its work and 
we are able to put into place a rule system that restores the 
confidence of Americans that legislation is not loaded up with hidden 
special interests or wasteful spending. It would restore honesty, 
integrity, and openness to the process that everyone would feel very 
confident because the ground rules would have been agreed to by 
everyone. The American public would see how this was done.

I strongly support the earmark reform, including listing names of 
sponsors on earmarks or specific line item spending. But the rules, Mr. 
Speaker, must apply an equal standard to all legislation, 
appropriations, as well as authorizing and tax bills and disclosing 
earmark sponsors. It must be across the board in every bill, but it 
also must be a process of indisputable integrity and probity that is 
honest and authentic, and one in which the American people have 
absolute trust. That is the key. It has to be a process, Mr. Speaker, 
in which the American people have absolute trust.

Earmark reform must be bipartisan. It must be an issue on which both 
political parties can come together so that every Member of Congress 
can know what is in there, the American people can know it. And I am 
hopeful that Members on both sides of the aisle will join this effort 
and support the Kingston-Wamp-Wolf earmark reform bill.

Then, Mr. Speaker, we have the opportunity after we do that, because 
I know most Americans are concerned about the spending with regard to 
the Federal debt and the deficit. I have a bill with Congressman 
Cooper, again, a bipartisan bill, and again, it is good to see, we have 
to work across the aisle. It is called the Cooper-Wolf bill, Mr. 
Speaker, and what it does, it sets up a national commission of eight 
Republicans and eight Democrats, and I would tell Members that there 
are 70 Members plus on the bill, roughly 30 Democratic Members and 40 
Republican Members. I must say, Congressman Hoyer gave a very powerful 
speech at the Press Club several months ago endorsing this concept. On 
the bill, we have Congressman Boehner, the minority leader. We have 
Congressman Blunt, the minority whip. We have people on both sides of 
the aisle of all political viewpoints from every part of the country. 
And what it does, Mr. Speaker, it puts everything on the table.



It puts Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and tax policy on the 
table. It has the support of the Heritage Foundation and Brookings. 
Alice Rivlin, head of the Office of Management and Budget in the 
Clinton administration, supports it. We have the support of some of the 
more thoughtful think-tanks, such as Brookings. A lot of different 
groups. We have had favorable editorials and comments from David Broder 
from The Washington Post, David Brooks from The New York Times, and 
Robert Samuelson, who writes a column for The Washington Post. Also we 
have had editorials in papers like the Tennesseean and the Richmond 
Times Dispatch and papers like that.

What it would basically do, it would have this national commission of 
eight Republicans and eight Democrats to go around the country having a 
conversation with the American people. They would listen to the 
American people. Then they would hold public hearings in every Federal 
Reserve district in the Nation. So they are required to go everywhere.

Interestingly enough, the Brookings Foundation and Heritage, along 
with David Walker of the Government Accountability Office, are now 
doing this in what they call ''wake-up tours,'' where they are going 
out around the Nation to tell the American people of the danger, the 
fiscal danger, the financial danger, that awaits this Nation if we do 
nothing about this spending and the debt and the deficit.

Congressman Cooper knows so much about this. I wish he was with me 
here today. But I respect his knowledge and understanding and his work 
on the Budget Committee.

But, Mr. Speaker, David Walker said, and I will insert it in the 
Congressional Record, I have sent it out to some Members of the House, 
David Walker said there was a tsunami, a financial tsunami off the 
coast waiting to come in and overcome and overtake this country.

As the father of five children, if our children were on the beach and 
someone said there was a tsunami off the coast of New Jersey or the 
North Carolina coast or the Maryland coast, we would as parents want to 
do everything we can to help our kids. So for our children and for our 
grandchildren, we have an obligation to deal with this problem.

Also, Mr. Speaker, I think it is also a moral issue. In the Ten 
Commandments it says: ''Thou shall not steal,''


and for one generation to be living off the next generation is in 
essence stealing.

With all the support that we have, the bipartisan support, again, a 
lot of good Members on both sides of the aisle, I am hopeful that there 
can be a way that we can bring this bill up and vote on it in this 
session.

So with the earmark bill that I spoke about earlier which deals with 
a fundamental problem that the Congress has to deal with, and with this 
bill, we can have a renaissance in this Nation, create jobs and make a 
tremendous difference. So I just hope that we can pass both of these 
bills in this Congress.

I see my friend from Tennessee, and I will yield to the gentleman 
from Tennessee (Mr. Wamp).