# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `eaa245e8942824170bf5c1a3268259fa`
`Mrs. MALONEY of New York — 12 March 2008`

---


Mrs. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Chairman, as Vice Chair of the Joint 
Economic Committee, I am pleased to speak in the time reserved by the 
Budget Act for a discussion of economic goals.

America has the strongest and wealthiest economy in the world. When 
government makes the right choices, economic growth helps all Americans 
live a better life today and provides a good future for our children 
tomorrow. Unfortunately, the Bush administration has not been making 
responsible choices over the past 7 years. We must chart a more 
sensible course for economic policy than has been pursued by this 
administration. Our Democratic majority has made important progress, 
but there is still much more to do.

President Bush was once fond of saying that his policies were working 
to make the economy strong. But the economy is now teetering on the 
brink of what may be the second recession of the Bush Presidency.

It is now clear that even the relatively weak economic growth 
experienced earlier in this administration was built on an unstable 
foundation.

The soaring housing prices that helped fuel our economic recovery now 
appear to have been a classic asset bubble. The collapse of that bubble 
is spreading throughout our entire financial and credit system.

American families are optimistic, by nature, but they are 
understandably worried about the future. Most American families have 
struggled just to hold their economic ground.

Under President Bush's management, our economy has set record after 
record, but they have been the wrong kinds of records, historically, 
poor levels of job growth, the greatest gap between the haves and the 
have not since the 1920s, record numbers of uninsured Americans. Over 
47 million Americans lack health insurance.



A record $9 trillion Federal debt, the largest in our history, and 
the largest single-year deficit in U.S. history. Record oil prices, 
record declines in the value of the dollar, record trade deficits that 
are the largest in history, record declines in housing prices and home 
equity that are leaving families owing more than their homes are worth.

Bush's job growth record is among the worst of any President since 
Hoover. As this chart shows, since the Great Depression, only his 
father has presided over a slower rate of job growth. As you see, the 
rate of job growth under President Clinton was four times higher than 
President Bush or Bush's father.

Wage growth has been even slower. Wages are up less than 4 percent in 
real terms since President Bush came into office. This chart shows the 
contrast between sluggish wage growth and soaring prices for such basic 
needs as education, health care, and gasoline. These basic costs of 
living have grown over 10 times faster than wages.

Look at this chart. The average wages are up 3.8 percent; public 
university tuition, 40 percent. Family health insurance premiums are up 
46 percent, and a gallon of gas is up 87 percent. Middle class workers 
are being left behind because their hard work has not translated into 
bigger paychecks.

This chart shows the divergence between strong productivity growth, 
shown on the top blue line, and much weaker growth in real compensation 
for ordinary workers, shown in the bottom red line.

Workers' productivity and their compensation used to grow together, 
but now they grow apart, as this chart shows. This was still true as 
recently as the late 1990s, but it is not true today. So here you see 
that for decades the productivity per hour and real compensation per 
hour basically grew together at the same time, at the same rate. But 
now look at the great difference between the productivity per hour, the 
output per an average worker, and the real compensation that the 
average worker takes home.

If our increased wealth has not gone to ordinary workers, then where 
has it gone? One answer is that it has gone to a very few at the top of 
our economy. The divide between the haves and the have-nots is reaching 
yet another record, a poor record level. We have the largest gap 
between the haves and the have-nots in many a long time. This chart 
shows that the share of income held by the top 1 percent of taxpayers 
is not at the highest level, 19.4 percent, since the Roaring 20s.

The compensation growth that the middle class has received came much 
more from benefits than from wages. Benefit costs have been increasing 
because health insurance costs are increasing, are rising up 47 percent 
in inflation-adjusted terms since 2007.

As this chart shows, rising health costs have driven the number and 
percentage of uninsured Americans to record levels; 47 million 
Americans are uninsured today, up 8.6 million since President Bush took 
office. Yet again another unfortunate record from this administration.

Slow job growth and stagnant wages during much of the Bush 
administration have depressed families' real incomes. The typical 
American family is earning almost $1,000 less than they did when the 
President took office and after taking inflation into account. As 
families struggle to make ends meet, they borrowed more and more from 
their major source of wealth and savings: the equity in their homes.

Under the Bush administration, families' equities stake in their 
homes has declined to the lowest level ever recorded. As housing prices 
drop, families will no longer be able to draw on this source of income 
to make up for slow wage and job growth. Yet, the President and his 
supporters react to these disturbing trends by pressing tax cuts that 
largely benefit our most fortunate families.



This chart shows the distribution of the benefits received from the 
tax cuts. The tall bar on the right shows that households earning $1 
million or more in 2007 income received over 100 times more money in 
these tax cuts than middle income families did. Incredibly, one-fifth 
of tax benefits went to these few families who make up just three-
tenths of 1 percent of taxpayers.

The Bush administration claimed that these tax cuts would drive 
investment creating growth in wages and employment, but these claims 
have proven to be false.

To make matters worse, the tax cuts have been funded using borrowed 
money. According to the Brookings Institution, the Federal Government 
has already borrowed some $1.6 trillion to fund the tax cuts.

When President Bush came into office in 2001, he inherited a 
projected 10-year budget surplus of $5.6 trillion. He inherited a 
government in good financial shape prepared to deal with the budget 
challenges posed by the retirement of the baby boomer generation and 
prepared to invest in improving the future standard of living of all of 
our children and our grandchildren. But this administration has 
presided over a stunning reversal of fortune.

This year our gross Federal debt will top $9.6 trillion, the largest 
in history, or more. That means that every American owes $30,000 per 
person to pay off this staggering debt. As a share of our economy, 
that's the highest level since 1955 when we were paying off debts from 
World War II. This is the financial mess that we have to clean up.

Thanks to the President's policies, we are now a nation of debtors 
relying on the rest of the world to finance our budget deficits and the 
cost of the war in Iraq. As former Secretary of the Treasury Larry 
Summers has said: There is something very odd about the world's 
greatest power being the world's greatest debtor.

Our current account deficit, which is the broadest measure of our 
trade deficit with the rest of the world, rose to yet another record, a 
record smashing $857 billion in 2006. And last year was likely even 
worse. The amount of Federal debt owned by foreigners has more than 
doubled under Bush's watch, rising to nearly $2.4 trillion, with Japan 
and China alone holding more than $1 trillion of our debt.


How does the administration address our financial problems? They turn 
to cuts and benefits from middle and working-class families. The 
President's proposed some $30 billion in cuts to the Medicaid program. 
That's a program that provides health care for some 27 percent of our 
Nation's children. These cuts couldn't come at a worse time. A recent 
study by the staff of the Joint Economic Committee estimated that 
should the economy enter into even a mild recession, some 1 million 
additional children per year would require Medicaid benefits. So these 
cuts are especially cruel.

Even while proposing these cuts and benefits, the administration 
wishes to continue massive levels of spending on the misguided 
priorities that landed us in this fiscal mess. The President's budget 
calls for all of the 2001 and 2006 tax cuts to be made permanent. But 
Democrats are not about to mortgage anymore of our children's future 
for all of these irresponsible tax breaks.

What is more, we have heard no plans for lessening the enormous 
fiscal and economic drain created by the mismanaged war in Iraq. This 
chart shows the steady upward march in the administration's requested 
spending for the war. That's over $600 billion just so far, with no end 
in sight. In fact, in this year's 2009 budget, the administration even 
refuses to tell us what the full-year cost for the war might be. Future 
costs will be truly massive if the Nation does not change course.

The Joint Economic Committee has submitted that over the next decade, 
a continued presence in Iraq will cost us a total of $1.9 trillion in 
Federal spending and $2.8 trillion in total impacts on the economy. You 
can find this report on my Web site.

But the good news is that we have a choice. We don't have to continue 
spending on the misguided priorities of the last 7 years. If we make 
responsible choices, our government can once again help middle class 
families improve their quality of life while saving and investing to 
improve the lives of future generations.

Our Democratic Congress has made important progress on this agenda. 
We have worked with the President to increase the minimum wage, expand 
Head Start, assist struggling homeowners, and increase opportunities in 
higher education. We've expanded investments in energy independence, 
green technology, and America's future competitiveness in science and 
technology.

What is more, we have paid for it all in a fiscally responsible 
manner. We've also worked with the President to pass an economic 
stimulus package that was truly targeted to middle class families who 
needed the assistance most.

Unfortunately, the President has blocked progress on many other 
initiatives. He has vetoed health insurance for America's uninsured 
kids, a change of course in Iraq he vetoed, and dozens of other bills. 
We must turn away from the failed policies of the past which has given 
us record levels of debt, trade deficit, and deficits of the highest 
records in history and an order to fully deliver on what the economy 
can do for all Americans.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve my time.