---
---

# JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `eaa4410bebdbe64377e68b20f4e2e2b3`
`Mr. OBERSTAR — 11 December 2007`

---


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts is a national 
memorial to a fallen President, one of the most loved, respected, and 
admired Presidents of our history. The John F. Kennedy Center for the 
Performing Arts was initially proposed as a national cultural center 
during the tenure of President Dwight Eisenhower. It moved its way 
through the legislative process and took firm root and forward progress 
during the brief tenure of President John F. Kennedy and then sprang 
forward under President Lyndon Johnson. It has become an extraordinary 
cultural center for the Nation.

Our committee has had the good fortune to hold jurisdiction over the 
physical facility of the Kennedy Center and of its operations, and we 
have managed that responsibility very thoroughly and very effectively 
through the tenure of many previous Chairs of this committee. In 
particular, in the current context I thank the gentlewoman from the 
District of Columbia (Ms. Norton), who is the Chair of the Subcommittee 
on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management, 
for her leadership on this bill as well as our ranking member of the 
full committee, Mr. Mica, and the subcommittee ranking member, Mr. 
Graves, and Mr. Petri who is here today managing the bill on the 
Republican side, for crafting what has historically been in our 
committee bipartisan legislation dealing with the operations of the 
Kennedy Center.

Since opening its doors September 8, 1971, the Kennedy Center has 
continued each year to gain national and international renown for its 
performance arts, programming, and for the education programs at the 
Kennedy Center that reach out across the Nation so that high schools, 
colleges, and universities can participate by satellite and live 
performances or recorded performances at the Kennedy Center.

The center has crossed the threshold in the last couple of years by 
performing over 3,000 performances, hosting millions of theater-goers, 
visitors, tourists. But of all of those accomplishments, none matches 
the international outreach of the Kennedy Center under President 
Michael Kaiser. In the aftermath of the Iraq war, Michael Kaiser 
personally traveled to Iraq to meet with the musicians of the Iraqi 
symphony who were, in many cases, without instruments or had somehow 
sheltered them from the post-invasion trauma, and secured instruments 
for them and secured funding to travel the Iraqi symphony to the 
Kennedy Center to perform jointly with the National Symphony Orchestra, 
an extraordinary gesture of international brotherhood and sisterhood of 
the arts.

President Kaiser has traveled to Africa, to the Far East, Japan, 
China to mobilize interest in the arts, joint initiatives with the 
Kennedy Center, and has actually established programs of arts 
management in countries well beyond our shores to help particularly 
Third World countries where arts have fallen well below the threshold 
of national concerns where people are more concerned about starvation 
and disease than they are about the arts. President Michael Kaiser has 
raised the threshold, raised the vision of arts managers in other 
countries, and created a great future for the arts wherever he has 
traveled.

Over the past decade, a great deal of work at the Kennedy Center has 
focused on life safety and accessibility projects. Many of those are 
completed. The Kennedy Center's capital building plan, which was 
updated earlier this year, emphasizes facility infrastructure. Over the 
next several years, the Kennedy Center will focus on replacing 
mechanical and electrical systems that consist of original equipment 
that is well beyond its useful life or should be replaced by more 
efficient equipment, and we provide authority for that work to continue 
to prevent failure or breakdown of essential equipment.

The bill before us today authorizes appropriations for maintenance 
and capital projects of the Kennedy Center for fiscal years 2008 to 
2010. For maintenance, repair, and security, the bill authorizes $64.5 
million over 3 years. For capital projects, the bill authorizes $56.2 
million through 2010. Those are numbers derived from the Kennedy


Center's 2006-2007 Comprehensive Building Plan, which has worked its 
way through the administrative review process within the administration 
and the Office of Management and Budget.

The bill also authorizes the center to study, plan, design and build 
a photovoltaic system on the four-acre main roof of the Kennedy Center. 
That is 140,000 square feet of roof space. A preliminary estimate shows 
that a photovoltaic system would cost $6 million to build, but would 
save $10 million over the next 25 years. It is part of the plan of this 
committee to redirect the energy consumption of our portfolio of 
Federal civilian office space, for which this committee has 
responsibility of some 367 million square feet of Federal civilian 
office space that we can cut down on the electricity bill of $5.8 
billion a year at those facilities. We could save the taxpayers a lot 
of money, and we could save the environment an awful lot of damage by 
converting to photovoltaic use. A good place to start is with the arts 
and with the Kennedy Center and with the Department of Energy building 
in the recently House-passed version of the energy conservation bill.

So this initiative that we require would in itself be a tribute to 
President Kennedy's longstanding well-known views of environmental 
protection.

I reserve the balance of my time.