---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `eab2935f2c900e972620cf23b8747d40`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. I thank my friend and colleague from Vermont for 
yielding me time. I will speak for a brief moment on this nomination 
and then talk a little bit about Iraq.

First, I will oppose the nomination of Jim Nussle to OMB Director. 
Why? Because our country is in a new world and a new time and a new 
place. Our health care system, our education system, and our 
infrastructure are lagging, and those who put continued tax cuts for 
the very wealthy above rebuilding America are at the wrong time, in the 
wrong place. That is what Jim Nussle has done. I understand it is a 
heartfelt belief of his.

We Democrats have adopted a more responsible position of pay-go. We 
Democrats believe, yes, we must restore our infrastructure, both 
physical and human, in America to stay great. And with an OMB Director 
who remains rigidly wedded to the policies of the past, tax cuts to the 
very wealthy above everything, above rebuilding our schools and 
restoring health care and getting our bridges and roads built--we are 
headed in the wrong direction. So I must vote against him and urge my 
colleagues to do the same.



















Iraq


Now, I rise today to discuss the situation in Iraq and the continuing 
efforts of this administration to paint a rosy picture, to cling to 
straws when the situation on the ground suggests just the opposite.

I first thank my colleague, Jack Reed, who has done great work on 
MILCON, veterans affairs, which we


have just considered, and for his work on Iraq.

Some have argued that the surge in Iraq is working, but all you have 
to do is look at the facts to know that is not the case. The President 
went to Anbar Province, which at the moment he is touting as a measure 
of success, but we all know what has happened in Iraq. You push on one 
end of the balloon, and it pops out on another. Anbar may be a little 
better; other places are worse. And the fallacy of Anbar is just 
amazing. Are we placing our faith in the future in Iraq on a handful of 
warlords who at the moment dislike al-Qaida more than they dislike us? 
And they certainly dislike us. What kind of policy is that? What are 
the odds that 6 months from now, the fragile and perilous situation in 
Anbar will reverse itself and collapse? We heard about success in 
Baghdad, we heard about success in Fallujah, and we heard about success 
in this province and that province, and it vanishes. Success vanishes 
like the wind. Why? Because the fundamentals in Iraq stay the same. 
That is, that there is no central government, that the Shiites and the 
Sunnis and the Kurds dislike one another far more than they like any 
central government, and that dooms our policy in Iraq to fail. When the 
President began the surge he said it was to give the Government 
breathing room, to strengthen the present Government. We have more 
troops there, more military action, more deaths this summer, more than 
any other, and the Government is weaker. So why isn't it apparent to 
the President and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that the 
stated goal of the surge is failing? Because the goal is not a military 
goal but, by the President's own words, it is to give the Government of 
Iraq greater strength, breathing room, as he put it. That Government, 
by just about every standard, is worse off than it was before.


Again, Anbar Province? Because a few warlords, tribal leaders are now 
on our side for the moment, even though they are not loyal to us, they 
don't like us and they dislike the central government, that is why we 
should continue the present course in Iraq? It makes no sense.

What happened to the great call for democracy in Iraq? Are the tribal 
leaders in Anbar Province our apostles of democracy? Of course not. I 
admit that is realpolitik. That is fine. But it is not going to solve 
the problem.

If you look at the benchmarks, today the independent GAO report due 
to be delivered to Congress showed little progress being made in 
meeting the 18 military and security benchmarks set out by the 
Congress. A draft report showed that only three of the benchmarks had 
been met. However, over the weekend, the Pentagon revised the draft GAO 
report and now, miraculously, an additional four benchmarks were 
''partially met.'' Despite the apparent efforts by the Pentagon to edit 
this independent report, it will take much more than a red pen to 
correct the failures of the President's Iraq policy. So the surge by 
the President's own stated goal is failing. The Government is weaker. 
The fundamentals on the ground are the same. There is no loyalty to a 
central government.

The temporary stasis in Anbar Province is not because of the surge 
but because the surge was unable to protect these tribal leaders from 
al-Qaida.