---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2446, AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND  SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007
## `eabf5b32a147f8a38479656a74216baa`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, again, I regret that my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle are not pleased with the rule that makes all of 
the amendments that were offered in order, but I think that that is the 
way we should do business around here. It is in sharp contrast to the 
way they used to do business when the Republicans were in the majority, 
where there was a tendency to shut everything down, to close everything 
up, to not allow Members of the minority to be able to have amendments. 
But we're different, and I'm glad we are different.

On the underlying legislation, there should be unanimity in this 
House about the importance of passing this legislation. It is important 
that we keep our commitment to the people of Afghanistan. It is 
important that we keep our commitment to the people of the United 
States, who after September 11 we said, in the Congress and in the 
White House, that we are going to do everything we can do bring to 
justice, to hold to account those who are responsible for September 11.

Unfortunately, today, we are not anywhere near where we should be in 
Afghanistan; and the reason for that is because we have diverted our 
resources, we have diverted our soldiers and our political capital to a 
never-ending war in Iraq. We have put our soldiers in the middle of a 
civil war in Iraq. We have spent over half a trillion dollars in Iraq; 
and, as a result, those resources have not been sent to Afghanistan; 
and I think that is regrettable.

But we need to pass this bill today. I hope it passes with a 
unanimous vote. I urge my colleagues to support the rule.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ''yes'' vote on the previous question and on 
the rule.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time, and I move the 
previous question on the resolution.

The previous question was ordered.