---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `eacf418ddad8e09439aacf703825d5bf`
`Mr. AKAKA — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, we are now in our fifth year of this 
conflict in Iraq, and throughout that time I have met with commanders 
of our Armed Forces, listened to their experiences and recommendations, 
and after much consideration I have come to the conclusion that we are 
not on the right path. While some of my colleagues believe that we 
should support President George W. Bush, who continues to make 
decisions that place our men and women in the Armed Forces in harm's 
way, I disagree.

The past few months have been among the deadliest for our military 
personnel. We have seen 79 U.S. soldiers killed in February, 82 in 
March, and 85 so far this month. To the more than 3,300 U.S. soldiers 
that have been killed and the over 24,000 wounded since the conflict 
began, to our men and women in the Armed Forces and their families who 
are valiantly serving our country and to the American people, I say to 
all of you, we must change our course.

To stay the course is to welcome disaster. Iraq lies like the 
proverbial clay pot broken in shards on the ground. It is shattered 
into the fragments of warring factions, clans, and religious groups. 
Afghanistan, still the center of the war on al-Qaida, is becoming 
progressively more dangerous as our attention remains focused on Iraq. 
Al-Qaida and the Taliban are rebuilding their forces and terrorists 
have extended their attacks to North Africa and Western Europe. We are 
facing, as our military leaders tells us again and again, a ''thinking 
enemy,'' one that learns and adapts. Should we not also learn and 
adapt? Can anyone doubt that our strategy needs to change?

Some have painted this conflict as simply a war against al-Qaida in 
Iraq. Let us not make the mistake of fooling ourselves. Al-Qaida is 
stoking the flames but it is the internal divisions among the Iraqis 
themselves which has made it the bonfire it is today. If the Iraqis 
unite, they can defeat al-Qaida as they have demonstrated in some 
provinces already. But as everyone, including the President and our 
military leaders, have observed, the Iraqis themselves must form a 
reconciliation government. American soldiers are not a thread that can 
permanently stitch together the broken parts of Iraq. The Iraqis 
themselves are the masters of their own fate.

The legislation before us today is a call for a new strategy. It 
requires that we change our present course. It makes clear that the war 
in Iraq can only be won by Iraqis. It is their will and their will 
alone that must determine the fate of their country. Americans cannot 
do the fighting for them. A democratic Iraq will not be established 
unless the Iraqis do it for themselves. We cannot put the shattered 
pieces of Iraq together. Only the Iraqis can do that.

Today, with the Senate passage of H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop 
Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability 
Appropriations Act, 2007, we will be providing $100 billion for the 
Department of Defense, primarily for continued military operations in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. It also


includes a $1 billion increase for the National Guard and Reserve 
equipment and $1.1 billion for military housing. Mr. President, $1.789 
billion would be provided for the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
specifically target treatment for veterans of Operation Iraqi Freedom 
and Operation Enduring Freedom, reduce the backlog of benefit claims, 
and ensure that facilities are maintained at the highest level. In 
addition, $6.9 billion would be appropriated for the victims of 
Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita, $650 million would be provided 
for the State Children's Health Insurance Program, $2.25 billion in 
homeland security investments, including funds for port security and 
mass transit security, and $3.5 billion to help relieve pressures that 
farmers and ranchers experienced due to severe drought and agricultural 
disasters.

In addition to funding these important efforts, the legislation 
includes an important step in setting the proper course in Iraq for our 
military servicemembers and their families by providing them with a 
road map to success. By outlining the benchmarks that must be met by 
the Iraqi government and clarifies our military involvement in Iraq. It 
defines our mission in Iraq by steering our military away from policing 
a civil war to training and equipping Iraqi security forces, protecting 
U.S. forces, and conducting targeted counterterror operations. A phased 
redeployment of our troops would begin no later than October 1, 2007, 
with a goal of removing all combat forces by April 1, 2008, except for 
those carrying out security, training, and counterterror operations. 
This bill holds the Iraqi government accountable by setting benchmarks 
that must be met for security, political reconciliation, and improving 
the lives of the Iraqi people. It is no longer acceptable for this 
Administration to set arbitrary benchmarks that have no consequences 
attached to it. It is time for the Iraqi government and regional 
leaders to work together to promote democracy in Iraq. It is time for 
the United States to take the necessary steps that illustrates our 
willingness to relinquish control and allow the Iraqi government and 
the Iraqi people to control their own destiny. And it is time for the 
Iraqi people to set their own path to victory and democracy.

The American people and more importantly, our servicemembers and 
their families, deserve to have the administration define our mission 
in Iraq. The President must also give a clear directive to the Iraqi 
government that it must demonstrate the will to overcome the civil 
unrest that is taking control of their country. Unfortunately, the 
President has indicated that he will veto this important legislation. 
By vetoing this legislation, this administration is sending the wrong 
message. It is preventing our troops from receiving the funds they need 
to continue their mission in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is preventing 
victims of Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita from rebuilding their 
lives and farmers and ranchers from receiving relief due to severe 
drought and agricultural disasters. Moreover, it is preventing our 
veterans from receiving the health care and benefits that they deserve.

It is time for this administration, this President, to lead us out of 
the morass in Iraq. This legislation sends the right message to our 
servicemembers, to the Iraqi government and its people, and to the 
American people. I urge the President to do the right thing and enact 
H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, 
and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007.

Mr. Salazar. Mr. President, today I will vote for the Iraq-
Afghanistan emergency supplemental bill. I believe that this bill 
supports our troops, our veterans and their families, and should be 
signed by the President.

But first I would like to say that as we continue the debate on this 
legislation and on the best way forward in Iraq, I come to the floor 
today with two key principles in mind.

One, we should honor the bravery and courage of our troops. America's 
finest men and women have done an extraordinary job--too often without 
the needed equipment and support. But honoring our troops means more 
than just singing their praise. It means making sure that every 
American in Iraq is adequately trained and equipped; it means 
guaranteeing every veteran access to all available benefits and 
services; and it means setting a policy that is as wise as our soldiers 
are brave.

And two, we should work to heal the deep divisions which this war has 
caused at home. Not since Vietnam has the American public been so 
divided. I am concerned that the bitterness and the harshness of the 
debate clouds good judgment on the future direction in Iraq.

It is important for us to remember that, no matter how contentious 
this debate may become, every Senator shares the same goal: peace and 
stability in the Middle East and a safe return home for our troops. 
While we may disagree on the best path to that end, we must continue to 
work together for a constructive change in our policy. It is important 
to remember what binds us together--so that we will not be torn too far 
apart.

I would now like to comment on the bill before us today.

Specifically, the bill includes: More than $100 billion for our 
troops on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan; more than $5 billion to 
help ensure that our veterans and their families can receive the health 
care they need and deserve when they return home; nearly $7 billion to 
rebuild the gulf coast and help the victims of Hurricanes Katrina and 
Rita so that they can finally rebuild their homes, communities and 
livelihoods; and $3.5 billion in disaster assistance to help our 
farmers and ranchers across the Nation recover from 7 years of drought 
capped by this winter's devastating blizzards.

The bill sends a direct message to the Iraqis that our military 
commitment is not open-ended. We hold the Iraqi government accountable 
through measurable and achievable benchmarks for security, political 
reconciliation and improving the lives of ordinary Iraqis.

The bill also launches a new diplomatic, economic and political 
offensive and takes steps to begin to rebuild our military.

Finally, it sets an April, 1, 2008, goal of redeploying U.S. troops 
not engaged in carrying out security, training and counterterror 
operations in Iraq.

I support this new direction for Iraq. This new direction recognizes 
the reality that success in Iraq is contingent upon a strategy of 
military, political and diplomatic progress.

I am disappointed that the President has said he intends to veto this 
legislation. But I remain hopeful. I believe that we must continue to 
seek a new course in Iraq. I believe we can and should do that by 
achieving a bipartisan consensus on the best path to success.

I know most of my Republican colleagues do not support this bill. But 
I believe they sincerely want to join in finding a solution to the 
difficult problem that confronts us in Iraq. The Iraq Study Group 
provides a model for how we can work in good faith, across party lines. 
And I believe that the group's recommendations can and should be our 
blueprint for a compromise that can gain broad support here in the 
Senate.

So next week, I will be back on the floor to discuss with my 
colleagues how we can implement those recommendations, working with the 
President.