# ENERGY PRICES
## `ead27b298deb396087b1cee2c67776fa`
`Ms. CANTWELL — 22 May 2008`

---


Ms. CANTWELL. Madam President, I rise, similar to many of my 
colleagues this afternoon, to talk about the high price of gasoline and 
what we need to do as we are leaving Washington and going home for 
Memorial Day recess to hear, I am sure, from many constituents that 
they are very concerned about this crisis of paying an ever-increasing 
amount for gasoline.

Today, I am sure, the market is going to set another record for the 
number of days gas prices continue to go up, and our constituents want 
to see relief. I know many of my colleagues have come out here and 
talked about new supply. I certainly feel one of the biggest priorities 
the Senate has is to pass a tax credit bill for renewable energy so we 
can get predictability in the market and continue to get new energy 
incentives in place. That will take pressure off some of these other 
supply issues. But many of my colleagues keep talking about the United 
States looking for more oil or things the United States can do to get 
into the oil game in a more robust way.

This chart shows it pretty clearly. The United States has 2 percent 
of the world's oil reserves--2 percent. These are all the other 
countries with which my colleagues are familiar: Saudi Arabia at 20 
percent of the world's oil reserves; Iraq and Iran, another 18 percent. 
These are the big players.

The point is, the United States is not going to dramatically impact 
the price of oil by what we do with only 2 percent of the world's oil 
reserve. So if we want a solution, we are not going to get a solution 
out of what the United States can do in continuing to be addicted to 
oil.

It is very important to also note that in the past, we have had many 
a conversation about this problem and what is the high price of 
gasoline. We had the same debate when it was the high price of 
electricity. No one wanted to hear about any other issue than the fact 
that it was just a supply-and-demand problem. In fact, the Vice 
President in 2001 said, when talking about the electricity crisis, when 
prices were going through the roof:




 They have got a whole complex set of problems out there 


 that are caused by relying only on conservation and not doing 


 anything about the supply side of the equation.


We found out very shortly thereafter that, no, that was not right. It 
was not about conservation and supply side; it was about the 
manipulation of the electricity market. There were lots of people like 
that. The Cato Institute had a similar take on it. This was in 2002. In 
2002, we had gone through much of the Enron debacle, and we had seen 
prices in the State of Washington for electricity rise almost 3,000 
times what they had been. Yet people were still saying:




 Most of the price spike in 2000-2001 is explained by 


 drought, increased natural gas prices, the escalating cost of 


 nitrogen oxide emissions . . . and retail price controls.


We all know the history, now that we have had a few years to look 
back on it. It wasn't those supply and demand factors but the fact that 
we actually had unbelievable manipulation of the electricity market.

The reason why I am bringing that up is because I wish to make sure 
we are policing the oil markets. I wish to make sure we in the United 
States are doing everything we can to burst this oil price bubble we 
are seeing. We want to pop this price bubble and give consumers a more 
reliable number about supply and demand that even the oil company 
executives are saying. They have testified before Senate committees 
saying oil should be anywhere from $50 to $60 a barrel; that what we 
are seeing in the marketplace is not about the normal supply-and-demand 
features, but it is actually about the fact that something else is 
going on in the marketplace. This is one CEO from ExxonMobil, recently 
in early April, who testified:




 The price of oil should be about $50-$55 per barrel.


I am not against discussions about future oil exploration. That is 
not the point. The point is, what are we going to do to solve this 
problem and burst this price bubble that while we are going out for the 
Memorial Day recess is going to continue to plague the economy, 
continue to plague our consumers, and continue to cause major havoc to 
our economy.

I think one of the solutions is to ensure effective oversight in the 
oil market as it relates to oil futures. I know people say they might 
not wish to talk about oil futures, but I am going to talk about oil 
futures because of the effect of substantial deregulation has had on 
these markets. On December 15 of 2000, at 7 p.m. on a Friday night as 
Congress was adjourning a lame-duck session, the last day of the 106th 
Congress, on an 11,000-page appropriations bill came to the floor of 
the Senate, we added a 262 page amendment--the Commodities Futures 
Modernization Act--that basically deregulated the energy futures market 
and said it didn't have to have the oversight of other products.

While the Commodities Exchange Act Reauthorization that recently 
passed as part of the Farm bill gives the CFTC more teeth to police 
these U.S. futures markets, under an administrative loophole 
speculators are still free to trade U.S. based energy commodities on 
U.S. trading engines free from full U.S. oversight meant to prevent 
fraud, manipulation, and excessive speculation. This is done under and 
informal CFTC staff ''no-action'' letter, which essentially means that 
the CFTC will not take action against


a foreign exchange to prevent fraud, manipulation, and excessive 
speculation. That means, at least on ICE Futures Europe, trading of 
U.S. crude oil futures, particularly the West Texas Intermediate oil 
contract, and U.S. home heating oil futures and U.S. gasoline futures--
products that are produced in the United States, delivered in the 
United States, consumed in the United States, and traded in the United 
States--are escaping U.S. oversight. I think that is a great concern to 
the American consumer who wants to make sure we have transparency in 
energy markets.

If we think about other trading, stocks for example, we have the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. They look at the stock market, and 
they have oversight to make sure there is nothing untoward happening in 
the market, like manipulation. We also have NYMEX, another exchange in 
the United States. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission oversees 
that futures exchange and has oversight. Also the Chicago Mercantile 
Exchange--the CFTC has oversight of that futures exchange. The CFTC 
implements market rules. But as for trading U.S. energy futures on ICE 
Futures Europe, the CFTC has said: No, we don't have to have oversight 
of that exchange.

As I mentioned, the Congress has charged the CFTC with protecting 
consumers by policing futures markets for fraud, manipulation, and 
excessive speculation. It does this by requiring certain market rules 
like position limits, large trader reporting, record keeping, and 
trader licensing and registration. These are tried-and-true tools that 
Government has used to protect consumers, to protect investors, to 
protect business, to protect our economy, to make sure manipulation is 
not happening.

I often think these are great programs, but wonder why we allow 
certain trading of critical energy commodities to escape such oversight 
requirements. I always like to give the example of cattle futures 
because somehow it seems we are more willing to regulate hamburger in 
America and than we are oil.

Here are two examples of U.S. commodities: cattle futures trading and 
oil futures trading. When we look at the rules, cattle futures are not 
an exempt commodity; but when you consider the ICE Futures Europe, oil 
certainly is. For cattle futures, the exchange trading U.S. cattle 
futures has to register with the CFTC, whereas oil trading on the ICE 
Futures Europe does not. And daily reporting requirements: more for 
hamburger and less for oil on ICE Futures Europe. What about 
speculative limits? more for hamburger and less for oil on ICE Futures 
Europe.


Why am I so concerned about this significant change that transpired? 
The significant change that transpired is since ICE Futures Europe--
which again is not subject to U.S. oversight meant to prevent fraud, 
manipulation, and excessive speculation--began trading West Texas 
Intermediate oil in February 2006, oil has gone from $60 a barrel in 
2006 now to over $134 a barrel. You bet I want to get down to the brass 
tacks about exactly how this exchange is working, to have the oversight 
and to see what large trading positions are being used in this market.

Many people have a concern about this. One report in the Asia Times 
was quoted as saying:




 Where is the CFTC now that we need [speculation] limits? It 


 seems to have deliberately walked away from its mandated 


 oversight responsibilities in the world's most important 


 traded commodity, oil.


This is by F. William Engdahl, who said this in early May of this 
year.

People are observing and wanting to know what we are going to do 
about this situation. That is why I think it is incredibly important to 
take action. What am I talking about, taking action? First of all, 
today Senator Snowe and myself and several of our colleagues are 
sending a letter to the CFTC insisting that they reverse their no 
action in oversight of this foreign market, noting that this is a dark 
foreign market where oil futures are traded. We are saying bring the 
bright light of day into this exchange and protect consumers by 
ensuring that market manipulation of oil prices is not happening.

As I said, the CFTC basically gave up this oversight under an 
informal staff no action letter process. How did this happen? Well, in 
1999 the London based International Petroleum Exchange, the IPE, which 
was a much smaller and foreign owned exchange, asked the CFTC for a no 
action letter, and received it. The IPE wanted to locate trading 
terminals in the U.S. but did not want to be subject to direct CFTC 
oversight. The CFTC decided that the IPE did not have to have to be 
subject to direct CFTC oversight because the CFTC agreed that the 
United Kingdom was going to be doing it. Then, in 2001, the U.S. owned, 
Atlanta based, InterContinental Exchange, or ICE, came along and bought 
the IPE. After that, the now U.S. owned IPE continued to escape U.S. 
oversight even though it received the foreign exchange no action letter 
based on it being a foreign based exchange.

So, in 2001, we can see a U.S. based entity basically purchased this 
foreign exchange, and the CFTC did not take action. In 2006, now named 
ICE Futures Europe, it starts trading what is a U.S. oil product, 
trading on U.S. desks in the United States and the CFTC continues to 
basically take no action to review that.

Our letter says the CFTC should start reviewing these trades 
immediately and reverse their no action decision. We hope that while we 
are at recess, the CFTC will take this action.

Why is this so important? Because many are concerned that U.K. 
oversight over U.S. energy trading is not sufficient to protect our 
consumers from fraud, manipulation, and excessive speculation. In fact, 
CFTC Commissioner Bart Chilton, on April 22 of this year, said:




 I am generally concerned about a lack of transparency and 


 the need for greater oversight and enforcement of the 


 derivatives industry by the [United Kingdom's Financial 


 Services Authority].


He is basically saying he has great concerns about the oversight by 
the government in the United Kingdom. He should have great concerns 
about that because the oversight in the United Kingdom is not 
comparable to the oversight in the United States.

The problems at the FSA led to the collapse of England's Northern 
Rock Bank. There was much written about this issue. They had high 
turnover in the staff, inadequate numbers to carry the load of what 
they were responsible for, very limited direct contact with the bank, 
incomplete paperwork, and limited understanding of their duties.

All this led to major problems, and it led the CEO of the Financial 
Services Authority to say:




 It is clear from the thorough review carried out by the 


 internal audit team that our supervision of Northern Rock in 


 the period leading up to the market instability of late last 


 summer was not carried out to a standard that was acceptable.


There are those in the United Kingdom who are criticizing the 
oversight abilities of their Financial Services Authority to handle 
this area.

The CFTC could act today in helping the United States bust this price 
bubble by doing their job and step in to provide needed oversight of 
this market.

One energy trader analyst from Oppenheimer said in April:




 Unless the U.S. Government steps in to rein in speculators' 


 power in the market, prices will just keep going up.


This is what energy analysts are saying. So we have a great deal of 
continuity in the marketplace of people telling us it is time for us to 
act. In fact, we are going to be having a hearing when we return on 
Tuesday after the Memorial Day recess. I know we are going to hear from 
many people, but one of them will be Professor Greenberger of the 
University of Maryland Law School, a former CFTC department head, who 
testified before one of our joint Democratic Policy Committee hearings. 
He says:




 The ICE [oil trading] loophole could be ended immediately 


 by the CFTC without any legislation.


I want to make sure the CFTC knows we will continue to pursue this. 
We hope they take action. We hope they will address this issue. But if 
they do not, we stand ready to make sure oversight in this financial 
market, that is a dark market on the ICE Futures Europe exchange, has 
the bright light of day and that they take immediate action to start 
investigating what is happening in our U.S. commodities markets so we 
can give consumers better protection. It is time to burst the oil price 
bubble. I think people everywhere across this country, and analysts on 
Wall Street, are saying: This is


not supply and demand. So it is up to us to make sure we have the 
enforcement in place to protect consumers, and that is what we hope the 
CFTC will realize their role and responsibility is.

I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.