# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `eae34f96502d9ff70b30109762b7857c`
`Mr. WARNER — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I thank my distinguished colleague.












 Amendment No. 697, as Modified


Mr. President, the Senate, a few minutes ago, acted on an amendment, 
the Warner-Byrd amendment. It is a rather unique one. I first thank my 
distinguished colleague and mentor in many ways, Robert C. Byrd of West 
Virginia. We have collaborated together many times on pieces of 
legislation.

But I approached him, and he concurred in my observations, that this 
was badly needed by the Congress, by the country, and indeed by the 
President and his staff, as well as the Department of Defense.

Our amendment calls for the appropriation of a sum of money to enable 
a private sector entity to make an independent--independent of all 
entities, the Pentagon and otherwise, in the Federal Government--
assessment of the status of the Iraqi security forces, most 
specifically the army, the national guard, and other elements which are 
fighting alongside the coalition forces, and primarily the U.S. forces 
now in the operations in Baghdad.

I have followed this issue for a number of years, and I have referred 
to the report to the Congress of May 2006, roughly a year ago. In that 
report, they talk about the:




 Iraqi Security Forces (ISF) continue to grow in strength 


 and capability as indicated by:



 progress in the training and equipping of ISF personnel;



 assessed capabilities of operational units; and



 progress in assuming responsibility for security of areas 


 within Iraq.


In another part, on page 46:




 With the generation of Iraqi Army battalions now more than 


 89 percent complete, the focus of the Army's train-and-equip 


 effort has shifted towards building combat support and combat 


 service support forces.


Now, this is a report, as I say, of a year ago. Compare that to the 
report Congress received this month, March of 2007, and the following 
paragraph, observation, from page 25:




 By the end of 2006, the United States and its Coalition 


 partners met their force generation targets, while continuing 


 their efforts to expand the size and capability of the ISF--


''ISF'' being Iraqi Security Forces--



 to meet emergent requirements. As of February 19, 2007, 


 approximately 328,700 forces (not including replenishments) 


 have been trained. The actual number of present-for-duty 


 soldiers is about one-half to two-thirds of the total due to 


 scheduled leave, absence without leave--


That is referred to by those of us who served as ''AWOL''--



 and attrition.


So it is not nearly, in 2007, as encouraging as the report in 2006. I 
felt, together with Senator Byrd and a group of cosponsors on this 
amendment, it was imperative we get an independent analysis of some of 
the reports of the Department of Defense and others to determine what 
is the viability of this force.

Every plan we lay down and discuss here on the floor regarding Iraq--
the amendment yesterday adopted narrowly by Senator Reid, calling on 
certain troop deployments and dates; the President's program of January 
20 of this year, in which he revised strategy and initiated what we 
commonly refer to as the surge operation in Baghdad today--every single 
plan, concept for the future of Iraq is dependent upon the military 
proficiency, the viability, the capability of the Iraqi security 
forces. I felt very strongly that we had to go and get a second 
opinion--a phrase often used in medicine, but it is just as important 
here in diplomacy. It is just as important in military analysis. Let us 
get a second independent opinion about these forces.


Drawing on my own modest military career but a lifetime of experience 
in working with our military and having served in the Pentagon for over 
5 years as Under Secretary and Secretary of the Navy, I have had some 
experience with training of forces. Our great country, since World War 
II, took recruits, brought them into recruit training, and in 6 to 7 
months they were trained, capable individuals. They were then assigned 
to other units to have additional training, but they were often ready. 
Today, those same recruits in this generation of forces that we have 
serving on active duty in the Army and particularly the National Guard, 
they are trained in a period of 6 to 8 to 9


months, and then they go into combat situations. We have been training 
these 325,000 people, most of them, for a period of 2/1/2/ years. We 
need to know at what point this heavy investment of American taxpayers' 
dollars, the work of the U.S. military to train these individuals, at 
what point are we able to say: This force is able to take on these 
operations and perform them because all our planning is dependent on 
that.

I find it most difficult to see how we have trained 325,000--that is 
over twice the number of U.S. forces in Iraq--we have trained them for 
these many years. Why are they not able to step up and take on the 
major operations now being performed by the U.S. forces? Our President 
has indicated we will continue to embed our forces with Iraqi units and 
continue to give them certain supplies and logistics and equipment. It 
seems to me the fighting, the brunt of the fighting ought to be borne 
by the Iraqi forces, and we, the United States, be it the Congress or 
the executive branch--but most importantly the people--are entitled to 
have an assessment of what we have created with the expenditure of 
these hundreds upon hundreds upon hundreds of millions of dollars to 
train these forces.

Now, the concept is--and I will be working with the administration 
and hopefully this becomes law and work through the process of 
appropriations--this sum of money would go to a private, independent 
entity to engage individuals to make this report, and then the report 
comes back to the Congress of the United States.

I thank my colleagues who have supported me, particularly my 
distinguished, longtime friend and associate from West Virginia, 
Senator Robert C. Byrd. We have done our work to initiate this all-
important study because every plan we have is dependent upon a better 
understanding and knowledge of what has or has not been created in 
terms of the Iraqi security forces.