# CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT
## `eaed6ef93ea712ad3e70ed23c258120f`
`Mr. BROWNBACK — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. I thank my colleagues and the Senator from Kentucky 
for giving me a couple of minutes. The reason I wanted to take that is 
we had Chairman Bernanke in front of the Joint Economic Committee this 
morning for a couple of hours. Chairman Bernanke is also not only a 
student but a scholar of the Great Depression. He has studied this a 
great deal. I got to ask a question of him, as several other people did 
as well: When he looks at this situation, what similarities or 
dissimilarities does he see?

He was very forthcoming with his comments this morning. He said of 
course our financial markets are far more complex now than they were 
during the period in the 1920s and the 1930s. But the same sort of 
systemic thing that grabbed hold and made that one of the key problems 
that made the Great Depression the length of time it was, was the 
credit markets froze up. Then they didn't respond and they didn't open 
up.

While the market is far more complex today and people in the 1920s 
and 1930s wouldn't recognize this financial market for what it is on 
its complexities and derivatives and other things, they would recognize 
the feature of market credit freezing. He was all but saying that right 
now we are in a negative growth month or two; it could well be the 
quarter we are in. If you do not unfreeze these credit markets at this 
point in time, you are going to go into a lengthier, deeper recession 
that is going to take place because the credit is what allows small 
business to get loans to grow and what allows people to get student 
loans to go to college. It is what lubricates and lets the system grow.

We are already in a weakened economy. You go ahead and constrict that 
credit and then don't put the mechanism in place to release and let 
that credit flow again, you are going to further jam down this economy 
and you are going to have a longer term, much more difficult situation.

This is a guy who is not just a student, he is a scholar on the Great 
Depression in this country and the depressions that have happened in 
other countries. I think we should listen to him.

In a real respect, we have--people may not agree with the situation 
on the war in Iraq, but we have General Petraeus, who was the general 
who led the turnaround, and General Odierno, who was there with them, 
and it was the A team that was there, and we put them on the field and 
they put forward a plan and the plan worked.

I think we have the A team on the field now in Secretary Paulson and 
Chairman Bernanke. I do not like the idea of what is being talked 
about, but what they are saying is, if you do not do this and you leave 
these credit markets locked up or stymied a great deal, you are going 
to push this recession, in an economy that is soft, into a longer, 
deeper recession. This is not the way any of us wants to go.

I do not know what the plan actually is that we need to pass. There 
are some changes I think we need to do in what is being proposed, 
changes that are very important for us to do. But the option of doing 
nothing is not an option. That has a huge number of problems for Main 
Street America in the time we are talking about here. I think we do 
not. The option is we have to act and we have to act right and we need 
to do so quickly so we do not have this further impacting people in a 
negative fashion.

I thank my colleagues for allowing me to share that with them.

I yield the floor.