---
---

# None
## `eafe5c259ccf9cc7a1ed587cf09c3a4a`
`Mr. SPACE â€” 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. SPACE. Mr. Speaker, I rise again today in support of H.R. 2199, 
the Traumatic Brain Injury Health Enhancement and Long-Term Support 
Act. This bill offers a comprehensive legislative solution to 
confronting our servicemembers' increasing suffering from Traumatic 
Brain Injury.

Our brave men and women who serve in Operation Iraqi Freedom and 
Operation Enduring Freedom are faced with daunting physical and mental 
challenges every day as they carry out their duties. Troops deployed in 
Iraq, specifically, encounter the widespread use of IEDs, which can 
cause Traumatic Brain Injury. Extended deployments put our troops at 
risk for longer periods of time.

H.R. 2199 brings together solutions to begin addressing the needs of 
our wounded warriors who have been diagnosed with TBI. The bill 
requires the VA to establish five centers for TBI research, education, 
and clinical activities. It also instructs the VA to establish a TBI 
screening program that would provide critical information to Congress 
regarding the number of veterans screened, the prevalence of TBI 
symptoms, and recommendations for improving care. H.R. 2199 dictates 
that the VA should create a comprehensive program for the long-term 
care and rehabilitation for veterans who suffer from TBI. The bill also 
requires the VA to create a Traumatic Brain Injury Veterans Health 
Registry to generate a list of those who served in Iraq and/or 
Afghanistan, who have symptoms of TBI, and who apply for VA medical 
care or file a disability claim. The VA can then notify those on the 
registry of significant developments in research on health consequences 
of serving in Iraq and/or Afghanistan.

Additionally, this bill authorizes funding for a pilot program of 
mobile VA centers for rural areas. These mobile VA centers would 
improve access to readjustment benefits as well as mental health 
services. The mobile centers would also assist veterans in making 
disability claims.

I represent a rural district comprised of small towns and villages. I 
know that my rural veterans' constituency desperately needs better 
access to VA services and care, and these mobile VA centers could be 
part of the solution.

I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bill because it makes 
great strides in providing comprehensive care for our Nation's wounded 
warriors suffering from Traumatic Brain Injury.