---
---

# WALTER REED MEDICAL CENTER
## `eb18b21a3b97477aa8afe306f7e08dfc`
`Mr. AL GREEN of Texas — 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to stand in the well 
of the House tonight and address conditions at Walter Reed Medical 
Center, as well as other military medical hospitals, and I would also 
like to, in doing this, talk about why our soldiers and our veterans 
are so important to us.

I want to start by saying if we are truly concerned, if we are truly 
concerned about national security, then we have to be concerned about 
those who secure national security. We have got to be concerned about 
our soldiers. We have to be concerned about our veterans. Because, in 
fact, they make it possible for us to have these liberties that we have 
come to know and to love.

Tonight, as I start this explanation, I would like to first use the 
words of another, Major General John H. Bailey II, and I want to bring 
his words to our attention, because he has written an ode that really 
explains why the American soldier, the American veteran, is so 
important to this Nation and to the well-being of this country. His ode 
is styled from Boston to Baghdad, and his words capture the essence, 
the spirit of what the American soldier is all about, what the American 
soldier has done for this great country.

His words are:

I am the American veteran. I was born in battle on April 19, 1775. I 
am the total sum of my country's ethnic and cultural diversity. I am 
loyal, dependable and patriotic. My motto is, ''Duty, Honor and 
Country,'' and my battle cry is, ''Don't Tread on Me.'' The tracks of 
my tears and the stains of my blood can be traced from Boston to 
Baghdad.

I was there at Lexington when the shot heard around the world was 
fired, saw the whites of their eyes, was battle-tested at Bunker Hill, 
Valley Forge and Yorktown, and won my country's independence.



I earned worldwide respect during the Spanish-American War while 
helping our friends in Cuba gain their independence. Names like Teddy 
Roosevelt's Rough Riders and the 9th and 10th Cavalry became household 
words. I saw action at San Juan Hill, Guantanamo Bay, and the 
Philippines. A young Lieutenant John Pershing was heard to have seen 
''white and black regiment fighters shoulder to shoulder unmindful of 
color in combat.''

I was there at the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month, in 
the year of our Lord 1918. I was crowned in glory at the conclusion of 
World War II, the war to end all wars and the birth of Veterans' Day.

During World War II, in response to the attack on Pearl Harbor, the 
pearl of the Pacific, I rallied a nation, shouldered the weight of the 
world, defeating the Axis powers, preserving democracy around the world 
and preventing the annihilation of a race of people who called Germany 
home. In this country, we call these exceptional citizens Jewish 
people, and we know them as the Jewish community.

No words can better describe the effects of our entry into World War 
II than those of Admiral Hirohito when told by an aide, ''Sir, we have 
scored a great victory,'' and he replied, ''I'm afraid we have awakened 
a sleeping giant.''

Thank you, World War II veterans. You are the greatest generation. 
Never before have so few given so much for so many.

In support of our friends in South Korea, I saw action at Bloody 
Ridge, Pork Chop Hill and Heartbreak Ridge, while introducing the 
helicopter and jet aircraft as battlefield tactics, actions which 
changed the course of military history.

I went to Vietnam to help the people of South Vietnam maintain the 
right to choose their own destiny. There I fought at Hue Dong Hai and 
Hamburger Hill. I refused to fall at the hands of a well-equipped and 
determined enemy during the 1968 Tet Offensive.

During Desert Storm, I engaged Saddam Hussein in his mother of all 
battles. I destroyed his will to resist.

And then there was 9/11, a day which must never be forgotten, a day 
which must never be repeated. It tested the soul of our Nation in a way 
not witnessed since December 7, 1941. And due to the atmosphere it 
created, I was again sent to Iraq as a part of the global war on 
terror. I am still there today


participating in peacekeeping and nation building. My rewards are found 
in the eyes of children and old people who now have hope.

I am the American veteran. I am from New York City, the countryside 
of Philadelphia, Washington, D.C. I've come from sea to shining sea. As 
a participating citizen, I shall continue to fulfill my forefathers' 
dreams of a more perfect union and open my arms and say to the world, 
send me your tired, your huddled masses, because I know it is that 
diversity that makes us who we are.

In closing, he adds, I leave you with the words of a young John F. 
Kennedy in his inaugural address, who said, ''We will bear any burden, 
meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe to assure the 
survival and success of liberty.'' This pretty much describes the 
spirit of the American soldier and the American veteran.

Mr. Speaker, I share these words because it is important for us to 
understand the sacrifices not only made by this generation of veterans 
but the sacrifices made by veterans since the country was founded, 
since the genesis of this country, if you will. And because our 
veterans have been so important to us, because they have been there for 
us, we must be there for them.

I regret to say, Mr. Speaker, that we have not been there for them 
when it comes to military hospitals and facilities and the delivery of 
health care through the military facilities. We have not been there 
because recent events have shown us, in transpicuously clear, empirical 
data, that hospitals are substandard, that some of the treatment 
received has not been delivered in the kind of fashion and manner that 
we would have those persons who have given us liberty and justice for 
all, those persons who have made real the ideals in the Constitution of 
the people, by the people, for the people, those persons who have given 
us this opportunity to stand here tonight, we have not made the 
delivery of health care services as effective and efficient as they 
should be.

So I am here tonight with a colleague, and we are going to talk about 
not only the problems at Walter Reed but the problems in health care 
delivery in military facilities, generally speaking; and we are going 
to also continue to be grateful for the service that our American 
veterans have rendered to make this country the great country that it 
is.

At this time, I will yield such time as she may consume to the 
honorable lady from the District of Columbia, a student of 
jurisprudence par excellence, I might add, one who is a part of the 
conscience of the Congress and certainly the conscience of Washington, 
D.C., who has fought for statehood and continues to fight for the 
American veteran. She speaks, and when she speaks, others listen. I am 
honored to share time with the honorable Eleanor Holmes Norton.