# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `eb22a19bea7ac6a57e33fb78d2243e30`
`Ms. BALDWIN â€” 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. BALDWIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the effort by 
my colleague from Ohio to draw our collective attention, both in this 
Congress and throughout the Nation, to bringing our troops home from 
Afghanistan.

In September, 2001, following the al Qaeda attacks on New York and 
Washington, D.C., Congress approved a resolution authorizing then-
President Bush to ''use all necessary and appropriate force against 
those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, 
authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on 
September 11, 2001, or harbored such organizations or persons, in order 
to prevent any future acts of international terrorism against the 
United States by such nations, organizations or persons.''

I voted in favor of that resolution and to continue to support all 
efforts focused on achieving that limited and specific mission. That 
resolution led to our military action in Afghanistan because at the 
time al Qaeda was using Afghanistan as a safe haven for its terrorist 
training camps, and the Taliban government in Afghanistan was 
supporting al Qaeda's presence within its borders.

As a result of the U.S. combat operations in Afghanistan, the Taliban 
was driven from power, many al Qaeda operatives were killed, and others 
fled to nearby Pakistan or other more distant countries. National and 
local democratic elections have been held, a constitution has been 
written and ratified by the people, and attempts have been made to 
establish stability and the rule of law in Afghanistan. Yet, after more 
than 8 years at war, there is evidence that the democratically elected 
government has little control outside the city of Kabul. Many parts of 
the country are ungoverned or lawless, opium production is increasing, 
and


the al Qaeda terrorists whom we seek to kill or capture are no longer 
present in Afghanistan.

I am deeply concerned that our brave men and women in harm's way in 
Afghanistan are now expected to perform functions not authorized in the 
September 2001 authorization of military force. And President Obama's 
strategy for moving forward in Afghanistan places insufficient emphasis 
on political, diplomatic, and development initiatives, contains no real 
exit strategy, and ignores the clear fact of mission creep.

Nobody can question the bravery of our men and women in harm's way in 
Afghanistan. Their service is courageous and admirable, bringing peace, 
stability, health, and well-being to a country that has suffered 
throughout years of conflict and war. But we can question whether these 
efforts extend beyond the very limited and specific mission articulated 
in the authorization of use of military force.