---
---

# None
## `eb24126d13dcb96340bcf5f52d5c104c`
`Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas — 19 June 2008`

---


Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas. Thank you very much, Mr. Inslee. I appreciate 
being able to join this group.

And it is a good day. I think it's a very good day for America. I 
know that it was a good day for Kansans when we got the news that the 
GAO report upheld the protest. There were certainly sighs of relief.

Let me make it clear what we're relieved about. First and foremost, 
we're relieved about our own national security, and that's what 
everybody has ultimately been most concerned about. Outsourcing our 
national security, outsourcing our technology, we all know that it's 
very hard to keep secrets, to make sure that that intelligence stays in 
our own hands.

So number one, the people of Kansas were very, very happy that our 
national security today would be stronger tomorrow because we did not 
outsource this important contract. It's a huge, huge contract and 
obviously the implications for our country are tremendous.

When we look right now at the industrial base and we wonder sometimes 
why we're not getting enough equipment and why it has taken us so long 
to get equipment to Iraq and Afghanistan, our own industrial base is 
right here in America, and we need to keep it strong.



So, again, there was rejoicing in the streets of Kansas.

Let me make it clear, the first reason was for our national security, 
and keeping that technology here with that intelligence right here at 
home.