# IRAQ
## `eb3786ccfbee4d3523e9fcd666532fbc`
`Ms. KILPATRICK — 17 September 2007`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, Members of the Congress and Americans 
across the world, thank you. Thank you very much, Congresswoman Madam 
Chair Stephanie Tubbs Jones, for accepting the responsibility for 
leading the Special Order. Thank you very much.

We need a new direction in America. We need a plan, one we never had 
4 years, 5 months ago as this country struck a sovereign nation, Iraq. 
We need a plan. I would say a new plan, but we never had an old plan. 
So a plan is what this country must have. President Bush wants the same 
''no plan'' to go forward. It is time for change: over 3,800 Americans 
dead, over 28,000 Americans wounded in battle. Members of the 
Congressional Black Caucus, 43 members from 21 States, we represent 
over 40 million Americans. And to a person, all over our districts, 
they want a change. They want a new direction with this war in Iraq. 
Eighteen of our members represent less than 50 percent African 
Americans. Several of our members represent less than 15 percent 
African American. We represent the American people, almost 300 million 
in our country, 40 million represented by the members of our caucus. We 
represent Latino Americans, Native Americans, Asian Americans, European 
Americans, Indian Americans, and African Americans. The entire multi-
ethnic society are represented by members of the Congressional Black 
Caucus.

So when we start our Special Order tonight to talk about the war in 
Iraq, a war we never should have fought, a war that has lasted longer 
than World War I, World War II, the Civil War, and the war continues, 
you might remember, America, last spring they were all saying wait 
until September. We sent a bill with benchmarks to the Senate, to the 
House, passed the House, went to the Senate. The President vetoed it. 
We sent him another one. They say, okay, we won't do another one; we 
will wait until September. Well, now General Petraeus is saying not 
September 2007; let's now give them until March 2008. No new plan.

They are going to ask for $200 billion in the next several weeks. 
Already have spent $565.4 trillion of your tax dollars on a war we 
never should have fought.

America wants a change; we want a new direction, Mr. President. We 
want to bring our troops home in the most orderly possible plan that we 
can put together. And I hope and the American people hope this 
administration as well as our military leaders will come up with a 
plan. It is your responsibility to do that.

We support our troops. We support the veterans all over this country 
as well as those veterans who are fighting this war. The mental health 
needs that our country will have as a result of this war, we yet do not 
know. There will be significant needs for mental health services. This 
supplemental has very little money that is coming through. And this is 
a supplemental that we spent this year, 2007 and 2008. Understanding, 
again, we have already spent $565.4 trillion. Repeat that: $565 
trillion in this war.

We must bring our troops home. We must have a new direction. And as 
members of the Congressional Black Caucus, we will say it over and over 
again: set a plan in motion. Change direction for our country.

Benchmarks. You heard also, benchmarks. What about these benchmarks 
that Congress, the President, and President Maliki put together earlier 
this year? It is really between President Bush's administration and the 
administration in Iraq, 18 benchmarks that they said they would meet by 
September. The General Accounting Office reported to this Congress last 
week they have met three of them. They are not sustaining their own 
government. They go on vacation, and they want us to fight their war.

Our people tell us to bring our soldiers home. We hear it across the 
country, Republicans and Democrats as well as independents: bring our 
troops home. It is unconscionable that this Congress would consider as 
an appropriator and as a Member of this body as well as a citizen of 
this country 200 billion new dollars for this ill-advised war in the 
next several months.

Rise up, America. Thank you for protesting over this last week. Keep 
the protests up. If you can't come to Washington, have them in your own 
State, in your own city. Let us hear your voices. It is too silent out 
there. This is a better country than that.

So as we come to you tonight as Members of this United States House 
of Representatives, 110th Congress, where there have been 110 African 
Americans elected and voting in this Chamber over these many years, we 
are proud to have that responsibility and we will remain the conscience 
of the Congress. Bring our troops home. End this ill-advised war. 
Rebuild America from the ground up. Our children deserve more. Our 
seniors who built this country need more.

There is no reason why we can't have top-quality education, good 
health centers, good environment, good infrastructure, bridges that 
don't collapse. But, you see, you can't spend $565 trillion of your 
money in a war that we should not be fighting and at the same time 
invest in America's future.

So as one of 43 members of the Congressional Black Caucus, we say to 
you, America, become engaged. Speak out. Ask that we bring our troops 
home. Ask for a new plan. Ask for a change of direction. Our theme for 
2007 and 2008 is change course, do something different. Join. 
Volunteer. Work for a better America. Confront the crisis of the war, 
of education, of health care, of infrastructure needs. And then for us 
to continue the legacy, not just members of the caucus but all 
Americans, continue the legacy of people who have built this country, 
who have laid down their lives. And, for us, so many of our ancestors 
and forebears who fought the


civil rights movement who speak out today for a just America.

So my brothers and sisters, American citizens, rise up, change 
course. Fight to end this war today so that your grandchildren will 
have a better America tomorrow

Mr. Speaker: One of the costs of the war in Iraq that is often 
overlooked is the waste of tax dollars that could be used to fund 
programs and facilities that would improve our quality of life. 
America's families want access to well-paying jobs, affordable health 
care, and quality education. The War in Iraq presents a threat to our 
military readiness and the development of communities across our 
country. We must reinvest in programs that address the priorities of 
America's families to preserve the safety, security and stability of 
Americans everywhere.

I was against the War in Iraq from the beginning I will continue to 
stand strong for the citizens of the 13th Congressional District of 
Michigan and America. We must take America in a new direction. Let us 
work together to ''Change Course, Confront Crises, and Continue the 
Legacy.''













 It'S TIME TO CHANGE COURSE


The citizens of the 13th Congressional District of Michigan have 
collectively spent $555.4 million in Iraq. For this much money, we 
could have provided, right here to citizens in the 13th Congressional 
District: 190,892 people with health care; 7,747 more elementary school 
teachers; 83,268 more places with Head Start; 379,635 children with 
health care; 4,477 more affordable housing units for working class 
people and senior citizens; 50 new elementary schools; 60,288 
scholarships for college students; 7,670 music and arts teachers; 
12,009 police officers, fire fighters and emergency medical 
technicians; 780,628 homes with renewable energy options; or 8,403 port 
container inspectors. [Progressive Congressional Caucus, 9/10/07]

