# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `eb42b81ff0a4760ba9741f374ca090a8`
`Mr. CARDIN — 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I am so pleased that Chairman Levin 
included in the conference report a critical component of the original 
Iraq Refugee Crisis Act, which would defray the cost of transportation 
and provide prearrival admissions assistance and up to 8 months of 
postarrival resettlement assistance to those Iraqis who come here on 
Special Immigrant Visas or SIVs. SIV holders are those individuals 
whose lives may be in jeopardy because of their support for the 
American mission. My staff has learned that there is an effort by the 
administration to limit the scope of the assistance provided to these 
brave Iraqis. I know when Senator Smith and I introduced similar 
language as an amendment to the fiscal year 2008 Labor, Health & Human 
Services, and Education appropriations bill, we certainly intended to 
provide Iraqi SIVs with the full array of benefits normally provided to 
refugees by the U.S. Government, the State Department's Bureau of 
Population, Refugees, and Migration as well as the Health and Human 
Services Department's Office of Refugee Resettlement.


With this effort in mind, I want to be sure the conferees and the 
author of the Iraqi Refugee Crisis Act, the Senator from Massachusetts, 
had the same intent when including the provision in the conference 
report accompanying H.R. 1585, the Department of Defense authorization 
bill. I would also ask my colleague from Oregon if he agrees with me.