# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `eb441f76af0e1f56fa0d03932490d429`
`Mr. LEVIN — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, a couple of quick comments on my good 
friend's statement. First, no one suggests that the commanders be 
absolved from any responsibility. In fact, when we asked General Casey 
what mistakes had been made, he listed a number of mistakes in his own 
answers, including:




 We underestimated the ability of al-Qaida, the Sunni 


 insurgents, to provoke sectarian conflict and failed to 


 preempt the attack against the Golden Mosque in Samarra; we 


 thought that as more security forces were trained and 


 equipped we would be able to gradually shift ever increasing 


 security responsibilities to them and thus reduce our forces 


 proportionately. This is occurring slower than we originally 


 projected. We were slow to anticipate the extent of the 


 radical Shia death squads.


He has acknowledged mistakes have been made. But the fundamental 
mistakes which have been made which caused us to be in the situation we 
are in were not George Casey's. Every commander makes mistakes. There 
is no commander I know of who would say he or she did not make 
mistakes. No one is absolving General Casey of the mistakes, which he 
is the first to acknowledge. The question is whether he is going to be 
held accountable--not for his mistakes but for the fundamental mistakes 
which were made by the civilian leadership of this Nation. That is the 
question.

When my friend says General Casey must be the only one in America who 
doesn't think this policy is a failure, let me give you a couple of 
other Americans who seem to think the same way. Let's start with the 
President of the United States, last October, when he said: ''We are 
absolutely winning in Iraq.''

That is the Commander in Chief. ''We are absolutely winning in 
Iraq.''

How about another person, the Vice President of the United States, 
within the last year? ''The insurgency is in its last throes.''

To say that General Casey is the only person in America who has made 
statements that are overly optimistic, to put it mildly, in terms of 
what is going on in Iraq, when he is trying to carry out the policies 
of the administration, keep the morale of his troops, and now, after 
November the President now says we are on a road to slow failure, after 
the American public told the President of the United States that we are 
on a road to slow failure, now what we are saying is: OK, the President 
acknowledges we are on a road to slow failure unless we adopt his 
policy of a surge. What General Casey is saying, honestly, when I 
pressed him--he doesn't frame it that way. He believes we are on a slow 
progress road. Are we going to say he is not qualified to be Chief of 
Staff of the United States Army, when he has been Vice Chief, he has 
been a Commander, he has been a three star general--because he believes 
it is slow progress instead of slow failure, when we have a Commander 
in Chief who just a few months ago said we are absolutely winning in 
Iraq, absolutely winning?

And George Casey, now it is all piled on him. He is the only one in 
America who seems to think we are winning in Iraq. Well, he doesn't 
think we are winning in Iraq; he thinks we are slowly making progress 
in Iraq, to use his words. Do I agree with him? No. I think this policy 
has been a failure right from the beginning. Going in was a mistake. It 
was a mistake that was based on arrogance, it was based on a 
misunderstanding of history, it was based on a misreading of what the 
threat was, it was based on a lot of mistakes. Disbanding the Iraqi 
Army? Look what it has led to. Not having a plan for the aftermath? 
Look what it has led to. These are the fundamentals. These are the 
transcendent mistakes which have created the chaos in Iraq, and George 
Casey inherits that.

He makes his own mistakes at a totally different level, degree, than 
these fundamental mistakes. Suddenly we say he is not qualified to be a 
chief of staff of the Army because he was a commander who inherited 
that mess and made his own mistakes of a much lower degree, obviously. 
Much too optimistic. He is a commander of troops, trying to keep morale 
up. So he is optimistic, I believe he is overly optimistic, history has 
proven he is overly optimistic. But to say we are trying to absolve him 
of mistakes when he acknowledges his own mistakes as any good commander 
will, learning from mistakes--he listed his mistakes; it is his list--
no one is absolving him. We are simply saying he should not be carrying 
the load of the mistakes the civilian leadership of this country has 
made, which has helped to create such chaos in Iraq.

I yield the floor.