---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `eb44cd88559d3045637a2a6fefd813f1`
`Mr. HUNTER — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I want to thank all Members who participated in the 
general debate, and all the great subcommittee chairmen and ranking 
members, and the chairman of the committee for putting together this 
great bill, and will now enter the amendment process.

There is just one point that I wanted to make in listening to my 
colleague finish up in talking about the mental health of America's 
soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines.

One observation that I have made over the years in being around 
people that wear the uniform is that while a number of the stresses and 
the difficulties that have been spoken of are real, it is also real 
that the coolest, calmest, most balanced, most stable American 
citizens, I believe, are the folks that wear the uniform in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. And while it is true that enemy fire can hurt you and 
damage you mentally as well as physically, it is also true that that 
fire can make you stronger.

Having spent time with guys like Chuck Yeager, guys like the great 
Vic Taylor, many others who have been under fire and in various 
situations in real combat in the world's wars, it has always occurred 
to me that the people who have the greatest mental stability are people 
that come out of the combat zones.

So I want to make sure that this debate doesn't send the message that 
somehow Americans who wear the uniform are victims, and that the 
inevitable result of their wearing the uniform and serving in combat is 
that they are going to somehow be damaged mentally, because that is not 
the case.

And I would just conclude by reflecting on the fact that I take a 
number of folks who are wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan hunting, which 
the Hunter family likes to do, and I take them hunting with my 
grandchildren. And there are few people that I will trust my 
grandchildren with, but the people I will trust my grandchildren with 
out in the great outdoors, with loaded weapons, are members of the 
United States Army and the United States Marine Corps who have been to 
combat. Those people have the greatest sense of balance and sense of 
judgment.

And, again, in my mind, America's citizens who are the coolest and 
the calmest under fire and have the greatest sense of balance and 
judgment are people that wear the uniform and have been in combat.

Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.