# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `eb735179aa20343023b046a8f6793107`
`Mr. BAYH — 16 April 2007`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart and deep 
sense of gratitude to honor the life of a brave young man from Kokomo. 
Neil Simmons, 20 years old, was killed on April 8 while deployed in 
Baghdad, when his convoy encountered an improvised explosive device and 
insurgent fire. He had been in Iraq for less than 2 weeks. With his 
entire life before him, Neil risked everything to fight for the values 
Americans hold close to our hearts, in a land halfway around the world.

Neil attended Kokomo's Northwestern High School and followed the 
example set by his father and uncle by enlisting in the Army a few 
months before graduating in 2005. He enjoyed the structure of the 
military and felt a sense of duty to serve his community and country. 
His father described Neil as ''an avid outdoorsman who was happy and 
always had plenty of friends.''

Neil was killed while serving his country in Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
He was a member of the 2nd Battalion, 69th Armor Regiment, 3rd Brigade 
Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, in Fort Benning, GA. Neil's father 
reflected on his son's death, asking, ''What's the odds of, among 
160,000 troops your only child is there one week and gets killed?'' 
Private First Class Simmons leaves behind his father David and uncle 
Jim Simmons.

Today, I join Neil's family and friends in mourning his death. While 
we struggle to bear our sorrow over this loss, we can also take pride 
in the example he set, bravely fighting to make the world a safer 
place. It is his courage and strength of character that people will 
remember when they think of Neil, a memory that will burn brightly 
during these continuing days of conflict and grief.

Neil was known for his dedication to his family and his love of 
country. Today and always, Neil will be remembered by family members, 
friends, and fellow Hoosiers as a true American hero, and we honor the 
sacrifice he made while dutifully serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice in honoring Neil's sacrifice, I 
am reminded of President Lincoln's remarks as he addressed the families 
of the fallen soldiers in Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot 
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and 
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power 
to add or detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 
say here, but it can never forget what they did here.'' This statement 
is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, as I am certain 
that the impact of Neil's actions will live on far longer that any 
record of these words.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of David Neil Simmons in the 
official Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and 
for his profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. When I 
think about this just cause in which we are engaged and the unfortunate 
pain that comes with the loss of our heroes, I hope that families like 
Neil's can find comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah who said, 
''He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away 
tears from off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Neil.
