---
---

# AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `eb7983d7c8c7f317d4503b291c80cc86`
`Mr. PENCE — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this motion to 
recommit with instructions. Part of my responsibilities here in the 
Congress are that I serve as the ranking Republican member on the 
Middle East Subcommittee on the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As such, 
I have been intimately involved in the development of the underlying 
legislation and am strongly supportive of it.

But I think it is also imperative that we adopt this motion to 
recommit and add language that addresses an issue of great concern to 
the United States of America, to Afghanistan, and to the free world.

Mr. Speaker, we are receiving numerous reports that Iranian-made arms 
are being shipped to Afghanistan and transferred to the Taliban and 
other radical Islamic forces that seek to kill U.S. troops and Afghan 
forces.



This past April, General Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff, confirmed that, ''We have intercepted weapons in Afghanistan 
headed for the Taliban that were made in Iran.''

This past Monday, on a visit to Kabul, Defense Secretary Robert Gates 
noted that the weapons are flowing not only to the Taliban but to drug 
traffickers as well. ''There have been indications over the past few 
months of weapons coming in from Iran. Some weapons,'' he said, ''are 
coming into Afghanistan destined for the Taliban, but perhaps also for 
criminal elements involved in the drug trafficking coming from Iran.''

The arms transferred reportedly include mortars, rocket-propelled 
grenades, C-4 explosives, surface-to-air missiles reportedly supplied 
by the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, and rockets with a 30-mile range.

Most disturbingly, an explosively formed projectile, an EFP, similar 
in characteristics to the Iranian-made ones that have killed our 
soldiers in Iraq, were recently discovered in Kabul.

Given Iran's unceasingly hostile rhetoric and actions in opposition 
to the United States, our interests and our allies, and given that 
these weapons were made in Iran, it is very reasonable to draw the 
conclusion that the Iranian regime transferred these arms to the 
Taliban.

We cannot allow Iran to undermine U.S. efforts and kill our soldiers 
in Afghanistan or to return that country to the status of a failed 
State and pave the way for increased terrorism against the West.

What we must do, simply, is to confront and respond to any efforts to 
subvert our efforts and kill our troops in Afghanistan.

As General Pace noted, ''I think we should continue to be aggressive 
inside of Iraq, and aggressive inside of Afghanistan, in attacking any 
element that's attacking U.S. and coalition forces, regardless of where 
they come from.''

If we are to be vigilant in protecting the lives of our soldiers and 
our allies' soldiers and security forces, we cannot tie the hands of 
our President and our commanders in the field. They need to have every 
option at their disposal and opportunity to combat an insidious threat 
from Iran that appears to be supplying weapons to our enemies.

Accordingly, we offer this motion to recommit which explicitly states 
that the Afghanistan Freedom and Security


Support Act does not limit America's ability to respond to attacks that 
Iran supports or facilitates against our forces or interests in 
Afghanistan.

As the United States begins to engage Iran diplomatically, we must 
also make it clear that we will defend our allies and our interests in 
Afghanistan with all the means at our disposal.

Mr. Speaker, our relationship with Iran should be described as 
follows: one hand extended in diplomatic negotiation and another hand 
resting lightly on the holster of the arsenal of democracy.

Mr. Speaker, in support of our troops, in support of freedom and 
stability in Afghanistan, I call on my colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle to strongly support this motion to recommit.