---
---

# PASSENGER RAIL INVESTMENT AND IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `eb84be4d0c9d27ce11e0338649542ba1`
`Mr. DURBIN — 25 October 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the bill before us is a very important 
bill for our country. It is the reauthorization of the Amtrak operation 
which serves Illinois and most of our Nation very well. It is one of 
the most successful modes of transportation in terms of growth in our 
country.

In the last year the ridership on Amtrak in Illinois has doubled. 
Doubled. That is an indication of a commitment, not only from the State 
of Illinois to make that happen, but also with the price of gasoline a 
lot of people are discovering the train again. They are back on those 
trains traveling between St. Louis and Chicago, Quincy and Chicago, 
Carbondale and Chicago, students, families, business people. That is a 
good thing.

I salute Senators Lautenberg and Lott for bringing this authorization 
bill to the floor. I definitely want it to pass as quickly as possible. 
I hope we will show the support for Amtrak which has been lacking for 
some time in the past but in the future needs to be there.

I want to discuss an amendment which I am going to offer which has 
nothing to do with Amtrak, and perhaps it will not be allowed at this 
moment in time in the debate. But I will offer it because I think it is 
timely, and I offer it because if it is not allowed on this bill at 
this time, I hope we will have a chance to bring it up in the very near 
future.

I can recall a little over 5 years ago, on the floor of the Senate, 
when we debated the invasion of Iraq. Those votes are historic and very 
personal. Members who were called on to make those decisions will never 
forget the anguish they face when they have to decide whether to send 
our Nation to war. We know it is the most important vote that can be 
cast. We know even under the best of circumstances Americans will die 
if we go to war. We hope our enemy will be vanquished, but we know that 
innocent people will also die.

A little over 5 years ago, that decision was made on the floor of the 
Senate to go forward with the invasion of Iraq. There were many of us 
who had serious misgivings about that decision. I was one of 23 
Senators, 22 on the Democratic side, 1 on the Republican side, who 
voted against the authorization of military force.

I felt the President had not made a strong case for that invasion. I 
felt he did not have a sound plan for an invasion and a victory. I felt 
the American people had been misled; misled about Saddam Hussein, 
misled about weapons of mass destruction, misled about the impact of 
this almost unilateral invasion by the United States into Iraq.

Well, here we are in the fifth year of the war, over 3,800 Americans 
have been killed, 30,000 injured, more than 10,000 seriously injured, 
with amputations and serious burns, traumatic brain injury. With the 
President's latest request, the spending on the war in Iraq will reach 
three-quarters of a trillion dollars. In 5 years, three-quarters of a 
trillion dollars, $750 billion; money, which if spent in the United 
States on Amtrak, on medical research, on health care, on education, 
would have had a dramatic, historic impact, a positive impact on 
America.

But, no, it was spent in the course of a war that has no end in 
sight. Our men and women in uniform have shown extraordinary bravery 
and courage under amazing, trying circumstances in the civil war we 
never bargained for.

When we went to war in Iraq, the President said the reasons were 
clear: first, depose Saddam Hussein; second, to rid our world of his 
weapons of mass destruction; and, third, to protect threats against 
America's security.

Here we are almost 5 years later with Saddam Hussein gone, no weapons 
of mass destruction, and the only threat to America's security being 
the threat to our own soldiers and occupational forces in Iraq.

The debate seems to have moved from Iraq to another neighboring 
country, at least in the eyes of the White House, that is, the country 
of Iran. We continue to hear the most bellicose, warlike statements 
coming from the President and Vice President about the potential for 
the invasion of Iran.

Make no mistake, Iran cannot be ignored. It has fostered a foreign 
policy that supports some of the worst actors in the Middle East, from 
Hezbollah to Hamas. It is pursuing a nuclear program despite 
international condemnation. It has threatened to wipe our strong ally 
Israel off the map. There is plenty of evidence to suggest Iran is 
complicit in supplying training and materials for attacks against our 
soldiers in Iraq.

Senator Gordon Smith of Oregon and I have introduced bipartisan 
legislation, the Iran Counterproliferation Act of 2007. It would 
tighten sanctions against Iran if it does not halt its nuclear 
programs. It stops short, clearly stops short, of calling for military 
action. That is the reason I come today.

I continue to be concerned that this administration is going to move 
too far, too fast, toward military action against Iran. The positioning 
of some of our battle forces, the statements from Vice President Cheney 
and President Bush trouble me. They trouble me because in August the 
McClatchy Newspapers reported that the Vice President proposed U.S. air 
strikes inside Iran. Earlier this month, President Bush said if we were 
interested in avoiding World War III--these are his words, World War 
III--we ought to be concerned about preventing Iran from gaining the 
knowledge needed to produce nuclear weapons.

This week, Vice President Cheney said, during an event in Lynchburg, 
Virginia, that the United States and others are ''prepared to impose 
serious consequences'' on Iran. This troubles me. If this 
administration believes it has some authority from Congress for the 
invasion of Iran, I challenge them to show me what that authority is. 
They certainly did not receive that authority with their authorization 
to use military force in Iraq. That was never even considered. There 
has been no action I am aware of since which would given them that 
authority.

If they think they have some inherent power to launch an invasion of 
another country such as Iran, they are clearly wrong, wrong because of 
this document, our Constitution. The Constitution makes clear in 
article I, section 8, that the power to declare war is vested in the 
American people through their elected representatives in Congress, in 
the House and in the Senate.

I come to the floor today to remind not only my colleagues but the 
administration that they have solemn constitutional responsibilities. 
Before they initiate any offensive action in Iran, they have to come to 
the Congress for the authority to do so. To do otherwise is, in my 
mind, not only reckless but clearly unconstitutional.

I want to take a moment to read this resolution I have proposed 
because it is very short. It is two sentences:




 The Senate hereby affirms that Article I, Section 8 of the 


 Constitution of the United States vests in Congress all power 


 to declare war.


And, paragraph 2:




 Any offensive military action taken by the United States 


 against Iran must be explicitly approved by Congress before 


 such action may be initiated.


The wording is concise and limited, and I hope makes a clear point. 
That point is, the Constitution counts. This President, no President, 
has the authority for unilateral invasion of a country. Every President 
has the power to defend America and Americans. But to initiate an 
invasion of Iran at this point in our history would


be not only a terrible foreign policy mistake, but violate the 
constitutional processes we have set in place, a Constitution we have 
all sworn to uphold.

I understand that this bill, this Amtrak authorization bill, is 
hardly a bill to debate the constitutional authority to go to war or 
foreign policy on Iran, but I continue to be troubled day in and day 
out with statements by the President and Vice President to suggest that 
we are somehow preparing in any way, shape, or form for offensive 
military action in Iran.

I know my time is limited. I thank the sponsor of the legislation 
that is now pending, and the Republican minority leader on this 
committee.

I ask unanimous consent that the pending amendments be set aside so 
this amendment be might be called up, with the understanding that it is 
not likely to be allowed, but to let my colleagues know I am going to 
introduce this as separate legislation. I hope they will join me in 
cosponsoring it and join me as well in finding the first available 
venue and forum to raise this important constitutional issue.