# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `eb924b7f28634efad96bd0ccd365e94a`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, less than 2 weeks ago, a bipartisan 
majority of Senators put aside disagreements over the war in Iraq and 
agreed on at least one thing and that one thing was that announcing a 
surrender date for our troops is certainly not in our national 
interest.

It is wrong by the troops who have been risking their lives to bring 
stability and order throughout Baghdad and Iraq. Certainly, they do not 
want to tell the enemy they intend to run up the white flag 365 days 
from today. Setting a date for withdrawal is akin to sending a memo to 
our enemies to rest, refit, and replan until the day we leave. It is a 
memo to our friends, too, telling them we plan to walk away and leave 
them on their own, regardless of what we leave behind. We know as well 
as they do that we can expect the following: a Sunni minority exposed 
to the whims of the Shia majority, ethnic cleansing, and regional 
instability the consequences of which are painful to contemplate but 
easy to predict.

It is wrong by the commanders in the field, who have been sent into 
battle with a mission to fulfill and who know better than we do how to 
carry out that mission.

It is wrong by the Iraqis themselves, who have risked their lives and 
fortunes on the strength of a promise that the United States of America 
would stand with them and see this struggle through until the end.

We voted against setting a surrender date, despite intense political 
pressure because common sense tells us that politicians in Washington 
don't tell the commanders on the battlefield when the fight is won.

Common sense told us something else a few months ago. It told us we 
had to change course, and that is exactly what we have done. We 
realized the only way we would win this fight would be to secure the 
city of Baghdad, the seat of the Iraqi Government, and home to a 
quarter of its population. We implemented a strategy to do it.

Some have said there is no military, only a political solution to 
ending the violence in Iraq. But we can't pretend the Iraqis will forge 
a political solution unless they are secure in their homes and on their 
streets. That is the key to the Petraeus strategy and to our efforts in 
Baghdad.

We have been pursuing that new course for the last few months. A 
Democratic-controlled Senate sent a new commander into the field of 
battle to carry it out. We have seen early signs of success, enough to 
believe this new approach was exactly the right thing to do.

Now Congress is being asked to fund it. I agree this is also the 
right thing to do. We are not about to pull the rug out from under our 
soldiers in the field just as they begin to carry out the mission we 
have sent them on. We are going to give them everything they need, and 
we are not going to slip a deadline now into their security package.

The Constitution gives those who oppose this war a clear and concrete 
way of expressing their views, and that is to vote against funding it. 
Attempting to have it both ways--by slipping a withdrawal date into 
this bill and making the support of our troops contingent on a 
dangerous and defeatist surrender date--was wrong a week and a half ago 
and it is wrong now.

It is also dangerous. President Bush has repeatedly said he will veto 
a bill that includes a surrender date. He said it again this morning. 
He said this spending bill, in its current form, assumes and enforces 
the failure of the new strategy even before American commanders are 
able to implement their plans and he will veto it if it reaches his 
desk.

I urge my colleagues not to take us down this path, not to delay the 
delivery of emergency funding to our troops by forcing a Presidential 
veto. There is no need. Nothing has changed since the majority of us 
voted against this very same timeline the week before last.

Stripping the withdrawal date will not prevent anyone in this Chamber


from expressing his or her views on Iraq. Its only effect would be to 
delay the delivery of much needed funding and equipment to our soldiers 
in the field. I strongly urge my colleagues to strike this dangerous 
provision and support the Cochran amendment.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.