---
---

# None
## `eb92ff772cfb85baeef824b79967a69d`
`Mr. DURBIN — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this amendment on this Defense 
appropriations bill goes to the most important single foreign policy 
issue facing America: If this is a bill about spending for the 
military, this may be the most important single amendment we could 
consider.

Senator Feingold and Senator Harry Reid have brought this amendment 
to the floor. It has been discussed before. It is an amendment which 
goes to the very fundamental question: When will we start bringing 
American troops home from Iraq?

The President, of course, and his administration have been reluctant 
to even suggest that possibility will come. I think the President went 
so far as to say that of the 160,000 troops or more in Iraq, perhaps 
5,000 or so will be home by Christmas.

At that rate, of course, this President will leave office with almost 
the same number as we have today, risking their


lives in the heat of combat in Iraq. Many of us remember the beginning 
of this war and how the American people were misled into this war. The 
American people were told that weapons of mass destruction threatened 
the United States, threatened our allies such as Israel, threatened the 
stability in the world.

We were given chapter and verse and detailed descriptions of 
biological weapons and chemical weapons and nuclear weapons. We were 
told Saddam Hussein had arsenals of these weapons. He had reached a 
point where he had so little credibility we would not even send in 
international observers, we knew it, they were there, and it was time 
to take him out.

Then obviously we were told about his reign as the leader in Iraq, 
nothing short of barbaric, gassing his own people, killing innocent 
people, ruling with an iron fist. All true. There was always the 
suspicion and the suggestion that somehow or another Saddam Hussein of 
Iraq had something to do with 9/11, that terrible tragedy we faced in 
the United States.

What happened? After the invasion, our great military, in a matter of 
weeks, took control of the country, searched it far and wide to find 
weapons of mass destruction and found nothing. To this day, the fifth 
year of this war, no evidence whatsoever of any of those weapons, one 
of the real main reasons we were told we had to go to war.

Saddam Hussein eventually was arrested, executed by his own people, 
still not a shred of evidence that he had anything to do with 9/11. The 
American people were misled into this war. There we sit as a Nation, 
not only with our reputation in the world at stake and on the line 
every single day, not only at the expense of allies who stood with us 
in fighting against the terrorism of 9/11, but more importantly, at the 
expense of 160,000 American lives of our men and women in uniform who 
are there at this very moment risking their lives for this President's 
failed foreign policy.

They are loyal and courageous people. I think we all understand the 
great debt we will always owe them and their families for what they 
have done. But what Senator Feingold has said is it is time now for 
this Senate to stand up and say, unequivocally: These troops need to 
start coming home in a responsible way. Not all at once. That would be 
dangerous and foolhardy. Senator Feingold does not suggest that.

What he suggests is that by June 30 of next year we will be in a 
position to redeploy our troops, keeping troops in the field in Iraq 
for specific reasons: to fight al-Qaida and other affiliated 
international terrorist organizations, provide security for Americans 
and our American Government, to provide training for Iraqi security 
forces, training equipment and other materials to the members of the 
U.S. Armed Forces--a much different mission. I will tell you, if you 
take an honest look at our military today, we have pushed these fine 
men and women and their families to the absolute limit. It is time for 
us to start bringing them home.

Three thousand eight hundred and five of our best and bravest have 
died; 30,000 seriously injured; 10,000 with amputations, traumatic 
brain injuries, and terribly burns. That will be a burden for a 
lifetime. That is the reality of this war. That is the reality of this 
amendment. This is not another idle debate, this debate goes to these 
men and women and their families and our Nation, a Nation misled into a 
war, a Nation which will spend three-quarters of a trillion dollars on 
this war, if the President has his way, a Nation which understands the 
invasion was brought about by misrepresentations, misrepresentation of 
reality on the ground.

We owe it to our soldiers, we owe it to our Nation, and we owe it to 
future generations to start bringing an end to this war. It is time 
once again for the Iraqis to accept the responsibility for their own 
future, to put together a government that can govern, a defense force 
that can defend, and a nation that wants to be a nation

If they cannot do that, we cannot send enough soldiers to make that 
happen. It has to be led by the Iraqi people, and they will never 
accept that responsibility as long as they can lean on the strength, 
the military strength of the United States.

I hope my colleagues, many of whom have dismissed this kind of 
amendment and said: We cannot get into this conversation until maybe 
next spring, we will reflect on the reality by next spring, hundreds 
more American soldiers will die by next spring, thousands of American 
soldiers will be seriously injured by next spring, billions of dollars 
will be spent on this war. It should be spent in America.

A strong America begins at home. This President, with his war budget, 
has taken away the vital services, education, health care for our 
children, medical research. Time and again, we find we cannot do the 
basics for America because this President is hellbent to stay in this 
war until January 20, 2009, when he walks out the door on his way back 
to Crawford, TX. That is unacceptable. I thank Senator Feingold and 
Senator Reid for giving us this choice today, a choice to change the 
course once and for all, to change the policy and move America in the 
right direction in Iraq.