---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `eba1f9c7d224a5a6d7521140b9069164`
`Mr. REID — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I heard the Senator from Tennessee arguing 
about a provision in the disaster recovery portion of the supplemental 
relating to the private property rights of billboard owners. First let 
me note that the bill we voted on was not simply the Iraq supplemental. 
From the start, it has always been a supplemental that also included 
provisions for hurricane and natural disaster recovery efforts. 
Obviously, the Iraq portion of the supplemental is the most important 
part of the bill, but the supplemental has always also had a disaster 
recovery title, which is why we saw a majority of members of both 
Chambers supporting these disaster-related provisions.

I respect the Senator from Tennessee and appreciate his sincerity on 
the important issue he spoke on. I was disappointed, though, that there 
was much in what the Senator said that was just plain wrong.

The Senator claimed that the provision at issue was ''amnesty for 
illegal billboards.'' I don't know what it is these days with the use 
of the term ''amnesty,'' but some people don't seem to understand what 
the word means in any context.

All of the billboards affected by the provision are legal. Some of 
them have been standing legally for decades. But we are not talking 
about creaky old billboards; many of the billboards at issue are only a 
few years old, and in more recent years the state they are in happened 
to changed density or zoning requirements, but sensibly grandfathered 
in the existing structures.

Many of the billboards at issue provide advertising for small 
businesses, important information for U.S. drivers, public service 
announcements, and fuel local tourism industries throughout America. In 
short, the types of billboards at issue are very common, are a source 
of information and revenue for States, and are regulated by states.

Saying they are illegal or that we are providing amnesty is a nice 
rhetorical flourish but is just plain wrong.

The reality is that for decades, the Federal Government, in 
compliance with law and regulation, deferred to the States in 
determining whether billboards could be rebuilt or not after a 
hurricane or other natural disaster. For decades, this issue was not an 
issue. Then, in recent years, the Federal Government did an about-face 
and began dictating terms to the States, threatening to withhold 
Federal highway funds if the States did not trample on private property 
rights.

Ironically, Tennessee was one of the States that felt the heavy hand 
of the Federal Government's purse strings. ''Tennessee had a decades-
long history-of allowing billboards to be rebuilt after natural 
disasters. There are probably hundreds of letters from Tennessee 
granting permission to rebuild after natural disasters, including many 
from within the past year. Recently, however, the Federal Government 
told Tennessee it needed to change its policies or it would lose 
millions of dollars in Federal funding. Tennessee felt that it had no 
choice, so it changed its policy.

The provision at issue is very simple, it returns us to where we were 
before the Federal Government changed its policy. It respects States 
rights and private property rights--principles that people in the West 
understand well. I am surprised that a small group of Members on the 
other side of the aisle are opposed to States rights and private 
property rights. This is especially so, since other Members on the 
other side of the aisle have traditionally supported this provision, 
including Members from Louisiana and Mississippi, two of the States hit 
hardest by the new Federal Government stance on this issue.

The proposal ensures that states that want to allow these billboards 
to be rebuilt will have that option. If the State does not want to 
allow the billboards, it does not have to. That was the way things 
worked for decades.

But, under the new approach by the Federal Government, even if a 
State thinks the billboards provide a valuable source of revenue or 
public service and wants to allow them to be rebuilt, the Federal 
Government stands in the way and prohibits the State from allowing the 
billboard to go back up. It is about states rights.

So the gentlemen from Tennessee, Florida, and Alabama, are all 
basically taking a position that the Federal Government knows better 
than their own States.

Further, the proposal is about private property rights. It ensures 
that companies and small businesses whose billboards have been 
destroyed by the hurricane will not lose all of the value of their 
property.

This is just a matter of basic fairness. The Katrina portion of the 
supplemental included billions of dollars to help people rebuild their 
houses, to help private schools rebuild their facilities and programs, 
and to help small businessowners rebuild their businesses. The Katrina 
portion of the supplemental was all about rebuilding.

But, a small group of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
seems to think that this group of private property owners should be the 
exception--they should not be able to rebuild and reclaim their 
property just because their property is disfavored by some. I don't 
know why these folks are opposed to private property rights and States 
rights.

Finally, let me note the wide support for this proposal. The 
Governors of Mississippi and Louisiana support the proposal. The 
American Hotel Lodging Association supports it. The National Restaurant 
Association supports it. The Association of National Advertisers 
supports it. The ''America's Most Wanted'' TV show endorses the 
proposal because billboards have been helpful in catching criminals. A 
variety of America's best known brandnames support the proposal, as 
well--Accor, Best Western, Bob Evans, Cracker Barrel, Dairy Queen, Ford 
Motor Company, Wendy's, and White Castle.