---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `ebb61e3e6e88a36b07239d1c7fbc123f`
`Mr. WEBB — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I assume you are calling on this particular 
Senator from Virginia.

I rise to offer, along with Senator Hagel, as the lead Republican 
cosponsor, and 35 of my colleagues a bipartisan amendment that speaks 
directly to the welfare of our servicemembers and their families.

I have learned from Senator McCain's comments that Senator Warner 
will be offering a side-by-side amendment that goes to the sense of the 
Congress rather than the will of the Congress, and I would like to 
state emphatically at the outset this is a situation that calls for the 
will of the Congress. It calls for the Congress to step in and act as, 
if nothing else, an intermediary in a situation that is causing our men 
and women in uniform a great deal of stress and which again calls for 
us in the Congress to do something about this.

We have been occupying Iraq for more than 4 years--more than 4/1/2/ 
years. During that time, it is sensible to assume our policies could 
move toward operational strategies that take into account the number of 
troops who are available rather than simply moving from one option to 
another, one so-called strategy to another, and continually going to 
the well and asking our troops to carry out these policies. This 
amendment would provide a safety net to our men and women in uniform by 
providing a minimum and more predictable time for them to rest and 
retrain before again deploying.

If you are a member of the regular military, this amendment basically 
says that as long as you have been gone, you deserve to have that much 
time at home. This is a 1-to-1 ratio we are trying to push. Many of our 
units and our individuals are below that, even when the Department of 
Defense's stated goal and the restated goal of the Commandant of the 
Marine Corps not long ago was to move back to 2 to 1. In other words, 
our troops right now are being deployed in environments, many of them, 
where they are spending more time in Iraq than they are spending at 
home, when traditionally they should have twice as much time in their 
home environments to refurbish their units, retrain, get to know their 
families, and then continue to serve their country. For the Guard and 
Reserve, we have a provision in here that would require that no member 
or unit be deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan within 3 years of a previous 
deployment.

I would like to emphasize this amendment is within the Constitution. 
There have been a number of Members, including the Senator from 
Arizona, who have stated publicly this is blatantly unconstitutional. 
It is well within the Constitution, and I read from article I, section 
8:




 The Congress has the power to make rules for the government 


 and regulation of the land and naval forces.


This constitutional authority has been employed many times in the 
past, most significantly during the Korean war, when the administration 
in charge at the time was sending soldiers to Korea before they had 
been adequately trained. The Congress stepped in under that provision 
of article I, section 8 and mandated that no one be deployed overseas 
until they had at least 120 days of training. We are doing essentially 
the same thing in terms of a protective measure for the troops of our 
military but on the other end. We are saying, as long as you have been 
deployed, you deserve to have that much time at home.

This amendment is responsible. It has been drafted with great care. 
We have put waivers that would apply to unusual circumstances into it. 
The President can waive the limitations of this amendment in the event 
of an operational emergency posing a threat to vital national security 
interests. People who want to go back, can go back. It does not stop 
anyone from volunteering to return if they want to waive this 
provision.

I have spoken with Secretary Gates, spoken with him at some length 
last week. I listened to his concerns. We put in two additional 
provisions in this amendment to react to the concerns the Secretary of 
Defense raised. The first is a 120-day enactment period, which is 
different from the way this amendment was introduced in July. In other 
words, the Department of Defense would have 120 days from the passage 
of this legislation in order to make appropriate plans and adjust to 
the provisions.

I also have a provision in this bill that would exempt the special 
operations units from the requirements of the amendment. Special 
operations units are highly selective, their operational tempos are 
unpredictable, and we believe it is appropriate they be exempted.

This amendment is not only constitutional, not only responsible, but 
it is needed. It is needed in a way that transcends politics. After 
4/1/2/ years in the environment in Iraq, it is time we put into place 
operational policies that sensibly take care of the people we are 
calling upon to go again and again.

That is one reason why the Military Officers Association of America 
took the unusual step to actually endorse this amendment. The Military 
Officers Association of America is not like the Veterans of Foreign 
Wars, not like the American Legion. They rarely step into the middle of 
political issues. But this organization, which comprises 368,000 
members, military officers, took the step of sending a letter of 
endorsement for this amendment, calling upon us in the Congress to 
become better stewards of the men and women who are serving.

It is beyond politics in another way. We are asking our men and women 
in uniform to bear a disproportionate sacrifice as the result of these 
multiple extended combat deployments with inadequate time at home. We 
owe them greater predictability.

This is this week's issue of the Army Times. The cover story in the 
Army Times this week talks about brigade redeployments, who has gone 
the most, who has gone the least, who is going next. At least eight of 
the Army's active combat teams have deployed three or four times 
already. These are year or 15-month deployments. Another six, including 
three from the 101st Airborne, leave this month for either round three 
or round four.

There is one brigade in the 10th Mountain Division, which is now 
nearing the end of its 15-month deployment, that is on its fourth 
deployment. When these soldiers return in November, they will have 
served 40 months since December 2001. That is about two-thirds of the 
time we have been engaged since December 2001. This amendment is needed 
for another reason, and that is that it has become clearer since the 
testimony of General Petraeus and Admiral Crocker that the debate on 
our numbers in Iraq and our policy in Iraq is going to continue for 
some time. We have divisions here in the Senate. We have divisions 
between the administration and the Congress. We are trying to find a 
formula, the right kind of a formula that can undo


what I and many others believe was a grave strategic error in going 
into Iraq in the first place. But we have to have this debate sensibly. 
In the meantime, because this debate is going to continue for some 
time, we need to put a safety net under our troops who are being called 
upon to go to Iraq and Afghanistan.

I noted with some irony on Monday, as I was presiding, when the 
Republican leader expressed his view that it would not be an unnatural 
occurrence for us to be in Iraq for the next 50 years. This comparison 
to Korea and Western Europe is being made again and again.

I go back to 5 years ago this month when I wrote an editorial for the 
Washington Post, 6 months before we invaded Iraq. One of the comments I 
made in this editorial 5 years ago was that there is no end point, 
there is no withdrawal plan from the people who have brought us to this 
war, because they do not intend to withdraw.

I said that 5 years ago. It is rather stunning to hear that ratified 
openly now by people in the administration and by others who have 
supported this endeavor. We need to engage in that debate. We need to 
come to some sort of agreement about what our posture is going to be in 
the Middle East. And, as we have that debate, it is vitally important 
that we look after the well-being of the men and women who are being 
called upon, again and again, to serve.

We are seeing a number of predictable results from these constant 
deployments. We are seeing fallen retention among experienced combat 
veterans. We are seeing soldiers and marines--either retained on active 
duty beyond their enlistments in the ''Stop Loss'' program or being 
recalled from active duty after their enlistments are over--being sent 
again to Iraq or Afghanistan. We are seeing statistics on increased 
difficulties in marital situations and mental health issues.

There was a quote in this week's Army Times by one Army division's 
sergeant major who was saying:




 After the second deployment, it's hard to retain our 


 Soldiers. They have missed all the first steps, they've 


 missed all the birthdays; they've missed all the 


 anniversaries.


I have seen that again and again with people I have known throughout 
their young lifetimes. One young man who is a close friend of my son 
just returned with an army unit, back for his second tour in Iraq. One 
of his comments at his going-away party was: 15-month deployments mean 
two Thanksgivings, two Christmases, two birthdays.

What we are trying to do with this amendment is to bring a sense of 
responsibility among the leadership of our country in terms of how we 
are using our people. It is an attempt to move beyond politics as the 
politics of the situation are sorted out. Again, it is constitutional, 
it is responsible, it has been drafted with care, it is needed beyond 
politics. I hope those in this body will step forward and support it to 
the point that it could become law.

I note my colleague, the Senator from Nebraska, has arrived, my 
principal cosponsor, for whom I have great regard. He and I have worked 
on many issues over nearly 30 years. I am grateful to be standing with 
him today and I yield my time and hope the Senator from Nebraska is 
recognized.










Amendment No. 2909 to amendment no. 2011


Mr. President, I had assumed the amendment was called up by the 
chairman. I erred. I ask amendment No. 2909 be called up.