---
---

# COMPREHENSIVE IRAN SANCTIONS, ACCOUNTABILITY, AND DIVESTMENT ACT OF
## `ebc536b9acec951042463f32fd0dc3f5`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 24 June 2010`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I rise to support the passage of the 
Comprehensive Iran Sanctions conference report.

Mr. President, you know me. I am a plain and a straight talker, so I 
am not going to use the flowery language of diplomacy or Senate speak 
on a lot of the language. I am going to say this in plain English.

Today, if you want to improve the safety and security of the United 
States of America, you want to pass this bill. If you want to make sure 
we ensure the safety and security of our allies in the Middle East, you 
want to pass this bill. If you want to identify who is one of the major 
enemies of the United States and our allies, it is Iran.

If one looks at the world, peace in the Middle East lies not through 
Jerusalem but lies through Tehran. What does Tehran do? Tehran funds 
Hamas, which is causing untold heartbreak and bloodshed in Gaza. No. 2, 
it funds Hezbollah, funding untold terrorist activity in the north of 
Israel and in Lebanon. No. 3, it is also working to develop nuclear 
weapons. We do not want Iran to have nuclear weapons.

What has Iran been doing over the last several years? They have had a 
record of denial and deception in developing nuclear weapons, in 
processing weapons-grade uranium. They have also been developing the 
method for delivering nuclear weapons, the so-called Shahab-3 ballistic 
missile. It is capable of striking Israel, U.S. troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and even parts of Europe. We do not want Iran to continue 
to develop nuclear weapons.

We have been down this road before. And people say: Right, let's stop 
them, let's go to the U.N., hoo-ha for the U.N. We have done hoo-ha 
with the U.N. We have had several sanctions. We had one most recently 
passed that our administration worked very hard on, and we thank our 
allies for that. But the U.N. sanctions, though a good first step, are 
quite tepid. They are tepid because there are other members of the 
Security Council who want to keep doing that business with Iran. You 
might want to do business with Iran, but Iran has no business 
developing nuclear weapons.

The United States, therefore, has to pass these unilateral sanctions. 
That is why I support them. It is the United States, the indispensable 
Nation, that can come up with the muscle to be able to do this.

This is a very serious matter. If Iran continues to develop these 
weapons, it is going to destabilize the world. First of all, it 
emboldens the regime that is currently in power. That regime is no 
friend to peace, it is no friend to stability, it is no friend to us or 
our allies.

Second, a nuclear Iran would destabilize pro-western Arab states. 
Those states with strong ties to the United States are apprehensive 
about Iran continuing to develop nuclear weapons capability.

Also, nuclear arms and missiles could pose a major threat to the 
United States. A nuclear Iran would spur in the region a nuclear arms 
race, and it would end a lot of our antiproliferation efforts.

These sanctions are absolutely important. I think they are very 
creative, and I think they go right to the heart of the Iranian 
leadership's pocketbook.

One of the most creative aspects of this legislation is the sanctions 
on Iran's petroleum industry. Iran has oil wells, but it does not have 
a major refining capacity. It imports over 40 percent of its gasoline.

This legislation in this bill that targets refined petroleum products 
I believe could have a crippling effect. With its importation of 40 
percent gasoline and the need for them to have enormous subsidies to 
keep gasoline low with their population will be very effective.



It also targets Iran's banking system. Essentially, it says it 
requires foreign financial institutions to choose between doing 
business with Iran or doing business with U.S. banks. Make your choice. 
If you think the future lies with doing business with Iran, that is one 
view. But if you see your future doing business with U.S. banks, I 
think the path is clear, and they will choose the safety and security 
and reliability of doing business in the United States. I also like the 
fact that it strengthens the prohibitions on activities on the nuclear 
program.


What was also spoken about--and I salute my colleague from Arizona 
for also insisting on this--is the support for human rights in Iran.

We all remember that awful day when this wonderful, heroic young 
woman who wanted to engage in the civic activities in her own country--
Neda--was gunned down in her own country by her own people. Recently, I 
watched a very telling and poignant documentary about Neda and the 
dissidents in Iran. What a wonderful group of young people there is in 
that country. Wow, wouldn't we like to see them flourish? Wouldn't we 
like to see a modern Iran that joins the community of nations, 
promoting peace, stability, increased literacy, and opportunity in that 
country?

I am for those human rights' people. I am not only going to mourn 
Neda as a symbol, but I think the way we can mourn Neda is to back the 
people like her in Iran. And I really do support this human rights 
activity by imposing travel restrictions and financial penalties on 
those who crack down on human rights in Iran.

Some countries on the Security Council, as I said, are more concerned 
about their relationships with Iran for investment purposes. We have to 
start thinking about investing in the safety and stability of the 
world.

I urge the passage of this Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Act, and I 
say this is a good and important step. And those who vote for it--and 
we are going to do it on a bipartisan basis because when we do that, we 
govern the best--are also going to have to stand ready to really have a 
very muscular and aggressive approach to the enforcement of these 
sanctions.

I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle to minimize the opportunity for Iran to continue to get its 
nuclear weapons and to practice its denial and deception, to promote a 
free and open Iran, to stand with the dissidents, and to promote human 
rights. Let's look for a more modern Iran in the 21st century. They 
have a great history. I want them to have a great future and to join 
the community of nations in a nonproliferation environment and work for 
the good of us all.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.