# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `ebd7bac35b1c1be9b0b2aef415644c51`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Madam President, I wish to applaud the chairman and 
ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senators Levin 
and McCain, respectively, on passage of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2008.

Specifically, I would like to express my gratitude to the bill 
conferees for their inclusion of four amendments that I authored and 
which were unanimously adopted by the Senate during its consideration 
of this bill. These provisions will increase oversight of our country's 
economic and security assistance to Afghanistan by creating a Special 
Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, section 1229; help 
victims of state-sponsored terrorism to achieve justice through the 
U.S. courts, section 1083; prevent military health care fees through 
the TRICARE program from rising, sections 701 and 702; and increase 
accountability and planning for safety and security at the Warren Grove 
Gunnery Range in New Jersey, section 359.

First, I was proud to be joined by my cosponsors, Senators Coburn, 
Dodd, Hagel, Feingold, Webb, and McCaskill, in creating a Special 
Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction. I wrote this 
legislation because I believe that while a democratic, stable, and 
prosperous Afghanistan is important to the national security of the 
United States and to combating international terrorism, I am concerned 
that we are not achieving all of our goals there. The United States has 
provided Afghanistan with over $20 billion in reconstruction and 
security assistance. However, repeated and documented incidents of 
waste, fraud, and abuse in the utilization of these funds have 
undermined reconstruction efforts. I therefore believe that there is a 
critical need for vigorous oversight of spending by the United States 
on reconstruction programs and projects in Afghanistan.

I would like to emphasize that the Government Accountability Office 
and the departmental Inspectors General have provided valuable 
information on these activities. However, I believe that the 
congressional oversight process requires more timely oversight and 
reporting of reconstruction activities in Afghanistan. Oversight by 
this new Special Inspector General would encompass the activities of 
the Department of State, the Department of Defense, and the United 
States Agency for International Development, as well as other relevant 
agencies. It would highlight specific acts of waste, fraud, and abuse, 
as well as other managerial failures in our assistance programs that 
need to be addressed.

This new position will monitor U.S. assistance to Afghanistan in the 
civilian and security sectors, as well as in the counternarcotics arena 
and will help both Congress and the American people better understand 
the challenges facing U.S. programs and projects in that country. I am 
pleased that this provision has been included by the conferees.

Second, this bill includes my legislation to provide justice for 
victims of state-sponsored terrorism, which has strong bipartisan 
support. I believe this legislation is essential to providing justice 
to those who have suffered at the hands of terrorists and is an 
important tool designed to deter future state-sponsored terrorism. The 
existing law passed by Congress in 1996 has been weakened by recent 
judicial decisions. This legislation fixes these problems.

In 1996, Congress created the ''state-sponsored terrorism exception'' 
to the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, FSIA. This exception allows 
victims of terrorism to sue those nations designated as state sponsors 
of terrorism by the Department of State for terrorist acts they commit 
or for which they provide material support. Congress subsequently 
passed the Flatow amendment to the FSIA, which allows victims of 
terrorism to seek meaningful damages, such as punitive damages, from 
state sponsors of terrorism for the horrific acts of terrorist murder 
and injury committed or supported by them.

Congress's original intent behind the 1996 legislation has been 
muddied by numerous court decisions. For example, the courts decided in 
Cicippio-Puleo v. Islamic Republic of Iran that there is no private 
right of action against foreign governments--as opposed to 
individuals--under the Flatow amendment. Since this decision, judges 
have been prevented from applying a uniform damages standard to all 
victims in a single case because a victim's right to pursue an action 
against a foreign government depends upon state law. My provision in 
this bill fixes this problem by reaffirming the private right of action 
under the Flatow Amendment against the foreign state sponsors of 
terrorism themselves.

My provision in this bill also addresses a part of the law which 
until now has granted foreign states an unusual procedural advantage. 
As a general rule, interim court orders cannot be appealed until the 
court has reached a final disposition on the case as a whole. However, 
foreign states have abused a narrow exception to this bar on interim 
appeals--the collateral order doctrine--to delay justice for, and the 
resolution of, victim's suits. In Beecham v. Socialist People's Libyan 
Arab Jamahiriya, Libya has delayed the claims of dead and injured U.S. 
service personnel who were off duty when attacked by Libyan agents at 
the Labelle Discothque in Berlin in 1986. These delays have lasted for 
many years, as the Libyans have taken or threatened to take frivolous 
collateral order doctrine appeals whenever possible. My provision will 
eliminate the ability of state sponsors of terrorism to utilize the 
collateral order doctrine.

Another purpose of my provision is to facilitate victims' collection 
of their damages from state sponsors of terrorism. The misapplication 
of the ''Bancec doctrine,'' named for the Supreme Court's decision in 
First National City Bank v. Banco Para El Comercio Exterior de Cuba, 
has in the past erroneously protected the assets of terrorist states 
from attachment or collection. For example, in Flatow v. Bank Saderat 
Iran, the Flatow family attempted to attach an asset owned by Iran 
through the Bank Saderat Iran. Although Iran owned the Bank Saderat 
Iran, the court, relying on the State Department's application of the 
Bancec doctrine, held that the Flatows could not attach the 
asset because they could not show that Iran exercised day-to-day 
managerial control over Bank Saderat Iran. My provision will remedy 
this issue by allowing attachment of


the assets of a state sponsor of terrorism to be made upon the 
satisfaction of a ''simple ownership'' test.


Another problem is that courts have mistakenly interpreted the 
statute of limitations provision that Congress created in 1996. In 
cases such as Vine v. Republic of Iraq and later Buonocore v. Socialist 
People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the court interpreted the statute to 
begin to run at the time of the attack, contrary to our intent. It was 
our intent to provide a 10-year period from the date of enactment of 
the legislation for all acts that had occurred at any time prior to its 
passage in 1996. We also intended to provide a period of 10 years from 
the time of any attack which might occur after 1996. My provision 
clarifies this intent.

My provision also addresses the problems that arose from overly 
mechanistic interpretations of the 1996 legislation. For example, in 
several cases, such as Certain Underwriters v. Socialist People's 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, courts have prevented victims from pursuing 
claims for collateral property damage sustained in terrorist attacks 
directed against U.S. citizens. My new provision fixes this problem by 
creating an explicit cause of action for these kinds of property 
owners, or their insurers, against state sponsors of terrorism.

Finally, in several cases the courts have prevented non-U.S. 
nationals who work for the U.S. Government and were injured in a 
terrorist attack during their official duties from pursuing claims for 
their personal injuries. My provision fixes this inequity by creating 
an explicit cause of action for non-U.S. nationals who were either 
working as an employee of the U.S. Government or working pursuant to a 
U.S. Government contract.

I also want to make special mention of the inspiration for this new 
legislation. On October 23, 1983, the Battalion Landing Team 
headquarters building in the Marine Amphibious Unit compound at the 
Beirut International Airport was destroyed by a terrorist bomb killing 
241 marines, sailors, and soldiers who were present in Lebanon on a 
peace-keeping mission. In a case known as Peterson v. the Islamic 
Republic of Iran, filed on behalf of many of the marine victims and 
their families, the U.S. District Court ruled in 2003 that the 
terrorist organization Hezbollah was funded by, directed by, and relied 
upon the Islamic Republic of Iran and its Ministry of Information and 
Security to carry out that heinous attack. The judge presiding over 
this case, Judge Royce Lamberth, referred to this as ''the most deadly 
state-sponsored terrorist attack made against United States citizens 
before September 11, 2001.'' In September of this year Judge Lamberth 
found that Iran not only is responsible for this attack, but also owes 
the families of the victims a total of more than $2.6 billion for the 
attack. Congress's support of my provision will now empower these 
victims to pursue Iranian assets to obtain this just compensation for 
their suffering. This is true justice through American rule of law.

Third, this Defense authorization bill includes my provision to 
prevent proposed increases in enrollment fees, premiums, and pharmacy 
copayments for TRICARE, the military community's health plan. The 
principal coauthor of this provision is Senator Hagel.

Both career members of the uniformed services and their families 
endure unique and extraordinary demands and make extraordinary 
sacrifices over the course of 20-year to 30-year careers in protecting 
freedom for all Americans. I believe they deserve the best retirement 
benefits that a grateful nation can provide. Proposals to compare cash 
fees paid by retired military members and their families to fees paid 
by civilians fails to adequately recognize the sacrifice of military 
members. We must be mindful that military members prepay the equivalent 
of very large advance premiums for health care in retirement through 
their extended service and sacrifice.

The Department of Defense and our Nation have a committed obligation 
to provide health care benefits to Active Duty, National Guard, 
Reserve, and retired members of the uniformed services, their families, 
and survivors, that considerably exceeds the obligation of corporate 
employers to provide health care benefits to their employees. 
Ultimately, the Department of Defense has options to constrain the 
growth of health care spending in ways that do not disadvantage current 
and retired members of the uniformed services, and it should pursue any 
and all such options as a first priority. Raising fees excessively on 
TRICARE beneficiaries is not the way to achieve this objective.

Finally, I thank the conferees for including my amendment to require 
increased oversight and accountability, as well as improved safety 
measures, at the Warren Grove Gunnery Range in New Jersey. I wrote this 
provision with Senator Menendez because a number of dangerous safety 
incidents caused by the Air National Guard have repeatedly impacted the 
residents living nearby the range.

On May 15, 2007, a fire ignited during an Air National Guard practice 
mission at Warren Grove Gunnery Range, scorching 17,250 acres of New 
Jersey's Pinelands, destroying five houses, significantly damaging 13 
others, and temporarily displacing approximately 6,000 people from 
their homes in sections of Ocean and Burlington Counties in New Jersey.

My provision will require that an annual report on safety measures 
taken at the range be produced by the Secretary of the Air Force. The 
first report will be due no later than March 1, 2008, and two more will 
be due annually thereafter. My provision will also require that a 
master plan for the range be drafted that includes measures to mitigate 
encroachment issues surrounding the range, taking into consideration 
military mission requirements, land use plans, the surrounding 
community, the economy of the region, and the protection of the 
environment and public health, safety, and welfare. I believe that 
these studies will provide the type of information that we need to 
ensure that there is long term safety at the range, both for the 
military and the surrounding communities.