---
---

# THE WAR ON TERROR
## `ebebac250d2523d81f65646a6a6e9c0e`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. And so here we are today with a Congress that wants 
to micromanage a war, and a resolution or two or three over in the 
Senate that undermine our troops, and a resolution promise to come to 
the floor of this House next week that undermines our troops. As I have 
submitted, you cannot win a war by committee. You cannot fight a war by 
committee, but you can undermine the mission and you can put your 
troops at risk by doing so.

We have top-notch commanders in the field, Madam Speaker. They have 
demonstrated their ability. We have the best military ever put into the 
field. Their morale is strong, their technology is there, their 
training is high. Their sense of mission and duty and sacrifice is 
strong and is profound. They want to complete their mission.

I traveled over there with a lieutenant colonel who said to me, Don't 
pull us out of this. Don't save me. Don't save me. I volunteered. I am 
willing to take this risk. I want to take this burden off of my 
children. That is my duty to my country and to my family. I want to 
take this burden off my children. Don't try to save me.

I had some Gold Star families in my office a couple of months ago, 
shortly before I went to Iraq, Gold Star families who have lost a son 
or a daughter in combat over in either Afghanistan or Iraq. As I 
listened to them, they just intensely pleaded with me, Do everything 
you can to promote a successful mission. We have heard much of the 
dialogue, but to look them in the eye and understand that intensity. 
And then, one of the bereaved fathers from California, his first name 
was John, said to me, It's different now. Our children have gone over 
there and fought and died on that soil. The soil in Iraq is sanctified 
by their blood. They paid their price for the freedom of the Iraqi 
people. You cannot walk away and leave that now. That is the vision of 
the Gold Star families. That is the commitment of our military.

I can't find people in uniform in Iraq that don't support the 
mission, that aren't committed to the cause. But they ask me, why do we 
have to fight the enemy over here, the news media over in the United 
States, and the people that are undermining us in the United States 
Congress? It is an undermining. And I will make this prediction, Madam 
Speaker, that before this 110th Congress is adjourned, there will be an 
amendment or a bill that comes to this floor that seeks to unfund our 
military, one that is written off the pattern of the one at the end of 
Vietnam. And if that amendment comes and it is successful and it shuts 
off funding and our troops are forced by a defeatist attitude in 
Congress to pull out of Iraq, you will see a human suffering like this 
world has not seen since World War II.

The price for failing to succeed will be cataclysmic. I don't have 
enough minutes to go into the description of all of that.

But I will submit that we either succeed victoriously and leave Iraq 
a free democratic Iraq that can stand on its own two feet and defend 
itself and be represented by its people, we either do that, or the last 
battle in Iraq won't be fought over there, Madam Speaker. It will be 
fought here on the floor of this Congress through an appropriations 
bill that will seek to jerk the rug out from underneath our sacrificing 
military. And it would put this country in utter disgrace if that were 
to happen.

So I have introduced a resolution, a resolution that supports and 
endorses our troops, one that recognizes the circumstances that we are 
in, the constitutional power and authority of our Commander in Chief, 
and stands up and defends our troops and our military all the way down 
the line. It says, in fact, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group says on 
page 73 that it could support a short-term redeployment or surge of 
American combat forces to stabilize Baghdad or to speed up the training 
and equipping mission if the U.S. commander in Iraq determines that 
such steps would be effective.

General Petraeus has written the plan. He has determined it would be 
effective; it is consistent with the Iraq Study Group, page 73. Look it 
up. General Petraeus has endorsed the plan, as I said. And on top of 
that, the cochair of the Iraq Study Group, former Secretary of State 
James Baker III, came back to this Congress and said: The President's 
plan ought to be given a chance. He wants us to support the Iraq Study 
Group, and that is the President's plan. That means a free and 
liberated Iraq, not a cut and run.

Honor the troops for their service and honor their mission, and in 
fact honor their sacrifice. And I will fight this battle here where it 
is at greatest risk, Madam Speaker. And I urge my colleagues to do the 
same.

I look forward to the debate next week and the open dialogue, and I 
hope that there is a rule that is offered here under the promise of 
this new and open Congress that would allow for amendments to be 
brought to the floor so that resolutions of this type actually have an 
opportunity to be debated in this Congress.
