---
---

# DISCUSSING THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `ec015e93835945b2deff651abedcfdd5`
`Mr. ARCURI — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. I thank my friend and colleague from the Rules Committee.

Mr. Speaker, I, like so many Americans, have tried to be patient with 
this administration in extricating us from the difficulties we are in 
in Iraq. Like so many other Americans, I want to believe that our 
country is doing the right thing and we are taking the correct steps 
and doing everything that needs to be done to bring our troops home. 
But it is very difficult when we see and experience what we have 
experienced.

You know, first they told us that there were weapons of mass 
destruction. None were found. Yet the American people continued to be 
patient.

Then they told us we were in Iraq to remove a tyrant. We removed 
Saddam Hussein; our soldiers fought valiantly and well. Yet we are 
still there at the present time despite the fact that Saddam Hussein 
has been removed from power and has been executed.

Then they told us we were there to fight terrorism, and we have been 
fighting terrorism, and we continue to fight terrorism, and yet our 
troops remain there.

Now they tell us we are there to make our families safer. Well, I for 
one don't feel that my family is any safer today than they were when we 
went into Iraq. In fact, I think that my family is far less safe.

This administration tells us that we are there to fight terrorism, 
that we are there to fight al Qaeda, and yet we hear that al Qaeda is 
now stronger than it has been since before 9/11. So, again, I ask the 
question: Why are we in Iraq? Why are we sacrificing American lives? 
Twenty-six thousand have been injured; 3,600 Americans have been 
killed. Nearly a half trillion dollars has been spent, and yet still we 
are in Iraq and still we are no safer than we were before 9/11.

People ask me: What are we doing? How are we making our country 
safer? What are you doing to bring the troops home? And it is very 
difficult to answer because it is sort of like trying to hit a moving 
target. Every time that a benchmark is set, every time a question is 
asked, this administration moves the target. They tell us we are in 
Iraq on a surge that will tell us in 60 to 90 days where we will be. 
Then today we hear from this administration we only now can begin the 
surge because only now are we fully up to speed. Yet we see our Armed 
Forces at the weakest point they have been in many years.

Our National Guard is not where it should be, here State side; 
rather, our National Guard is overseas. They are not in a position to 
help should we need them here. Should we have another disaster like 
Hurricane Katrina, our National Guard is not here. Rather, they are 
serving overseas. These are the things that this administration has 
failed the American people on.

The violence in Iraq continues. The Iraq government has failed to 
meet the key benchmarks endorsed by the President in January, and 
political reconciliation is nonexistent.

And yet we as a Nation have not engaged the neighbors of Iraq. We 
have not gone forward and tried to bring a settlement to this. We have 
not engaged Iran. We have not engaged Syria. We have just continued to 
send troops to Iraq. Something has to be done.

Today we took the first step to do that. I was proud to be one of the 
representatives who voted for the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq 
Act, as were 223 of my other colleagues here. It is an important step 
that we have taken. It is an important step for this Congress.

You know, I can't help but think, I have two teenaged children. What 
are we going to tell our children about why we were in Iraq? When our 
grandchildren read the history books and say to us, ''Members of 
Congress, what did you do to stop this war,'' what are we going to tell 
them? Well, today we took one step in telling them that we began the 
process. We are beginning the process to bring this war to an end and 
to bring our troops home. It is necessary. It is important. It is our 
responsibility as Members of Congress.