# None
## `ec0bbd3fccbd23e26bb6c6348f774b6b`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 1146 provides for the 
consideration of H. Con. Res. 248, directing the President, pursuant to 
section 5(c) of the War Powers Resolution, to remove the United States 
Armed Forces from Afghanistan. The rule provides 3 hours of general 
debate in the House, with 90 minutes controlled by Representative 
Kucinich and 90 minutes controlled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 
The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the 
concurrent resolution and provides that the concurrent resolution shall 
be considered as read.

Mr. Speaker, this is an important day, and an important debate, in 
the House of representatives. Last summer, I had the privilege of 
traveling to Afghanistan and meeting with our brave troops. They are an 
incredible group of people, proud of their accomplishments, thoughtful 
and candid about the challenges that confront them. They deserve to 
know that we are thinking about them and do not take their lives or 
their fate for granted. It has been far too long since Congress had a 
full and open debate on the issue of U.S. policy in Afghanistan.

In 2001, I voted, along with the vast majority of my colleagues, to 
go after the terrorists who attacked us on September 11th. I believe we 
must have a comprehensive strategy to counter the global threat posed 
by al Qaeda and its affiliates, no matter where they are in the world--
Afghanistan, Pakistan, Somalia, Yemen, North Africa, and elsewhere. But 
I also believe that we have serious challenges right here at home. 
Millions of Americans are out of work. Our economy is just now 
beginning to emerge from the worst recession in decades. Our schools, 
our health care, our tax code, our infrastructure--all must be updated 
for the 21st century if we are to create a better America.

Mr. Speaker, the war in Afghanistan has cost U.S. taxpayers well over 
$200 billion--none of it paid for. None of it paid for. All of that 
money has been added on to our debt. And those costs will continue to 
rise as we fund increasing troop levels and provide the necessary care 
to our veterans when they return home. Our policy has drastically 
changed in those 8 years. We are no longer just going after the bad 
guys. We are engaged in a massive ''nation-building'' effort in 
Afghanistan.

Now, I certainly don't believe we should abandon the Afghan people. 
But instead of nation-building in Afghanistan, I'd like to do some more 
nation-building here at home.

Our allies in Afghanistan, the Karzai government, do not inspire 
confidence.


The recent election there was characterized by widespread fraud and 
corruption. Just 10 days ago, Mr. Karzai unilaterally rewrote the 
election law to ensure that he can handpick the members of the election 
monitoring commission that oversees voting irregularities. Talk about 
the fox guarding the chicken coop.

Over 1,000 U.S. servicemen and women have sacrificed their lives in 
Afghanistan. Over 670 more lives have been lost by our NATO military 
allies. Thousands more have been wounded, many severely, in ways that 
will affect the rest of their lives. Suicide and post-traumatic stress 
among our troops and veterans continue to increase at alarming rates.

Mr. Speaker, last summer I authored an amendment to require the 
administration to develop an exit strategy for our military involvement 
in Afghanistan. While my amendment did not carry the day, I believe it 
demonstrated to the administration that an open-ended commitment was 
not sustainable. As we know, President Obama outlined such a strategy 
in his speech at West Point. And I believe it is essential that we in 
the Congress work to keep the administration to its word. We must 
fulfill our constitutional responsibilities by making sure that 
taxpayer funds are spent wisely and with complete accountability and 
transparency for every dime and every dollar. No more Halliburton and 
Blackwater scandals. No more projects where fat-cat middlemen walk off 
with all the money while the Afghan people go without hospitals, 
schools, roads, or food.

Mr. Speaker, I hope that this is just the first--not the last--debate 
that we have on the House floor this year over our policy in 
Afghanistan. The issue is simply too important. The future at stake is 
too grave. We have sacrificed too much--in the lives and well-being of 
our soldiers, in the cost to our economy--to wait another year or 2 or 
3 for Congress to do its job. We must continue to ask the hard 
questions and demand straight answers.

I reserve the balance of my time.