---
---

# SECURE FEDERAL FILE SHARING ACT
## `ec0e564f6f86487b0943d78c91925802`
`Mr. WELCH — 24 March 2010`

---


Mr. WELCH. Mr. Speaker and Chairman Towns, thank you for bringing 
this important legislation before the House today.

Less than a year ago, Chairman Towns and his staff worked to convene 
an Oversight and Government Reform hearing that I requested about the 
dangers posed by inadvertent file-sharing over open-network peer-to-
peer file sharing software. I think it's safe to say we were all 
shocked by what we heard and saw at that hearing: information on the 
United States Secret Service safe house for first lady Michelle Obama; 
the names, addresses, and, in some cases, private information like 
Social Security numbers for men and women deploying to Afghanistan; as 
well as tax information for countless individuals. All of this 
information was on display for the world to see and all of it had been 
leaked as a result of inadvertent file sharing or theft over open-
network peer-to-peer file sharing software.

Passing this bill is an important step in enacting common sense 
information security protections. This legislation will prohibit the 
software that has facilitated inadvertent file sharing and information 
theft from computers that have access to sensitive government 
information.

Not only important, this legislation is also timely. Last month, the 
Federal Trade Commission released findings from their investigation 
into inadvertent file sharing. Their conclusion supports this 
legislation and reaffirms what many of us have learned as a result of 
the committee's work: peer-to-peer file sharing software subjects 
millions of users to identity theft and other serious hazards.

The FTC is fulfilling its important role of protecting consumers by 
alerting consumers about stolen information, but I am concerned that 
their report does not pursue the one thing that all of the victims of 
inadvertent peer-to-peer file sharing have in common: the software 
itself. I urge the FTC to continue its work in this area and to look 
specifically at the providers of peer-to-peer software. The FTC has 
gone after those who use the software for harm, but they haven't spent 
enough time addressing those who develop this software--replete with 
security risks--for material gain. I look forward to future FTC 
investigation and possible action to address this ongoing problem.

Chairman Towns, thank you for working so hard to address this issue.
