# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `ec11aa1dfe6d9307db42f05d198eeef4`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the chairman of 
the Foreign Affairs Committee for allowing members of that committee to 
show their commitment through their legislative work in a hearing at 
the early stages of his leadership when we were allowed to present 
solutions. They were not Republican solutions or Democratic solutions. 
They were solutions for those of us who love America, and I just want 
to simply reinforce that. I thank Mr. Skelton for his leadership.

I have legislation that declares a military success, and I rise today 
to make it clear that I believe that the fallen in battle are heroes, 
and those who still fight carry their banner, for 3,611 have died, and 
I don't know why we're not on this floor declaring a military victory, 
thanking our soldiers.

And my good friend from Texas says that he supports the Iraq Study 
Group. So do I and I have legislation. We all have legislation that 
responds to the Iraq Study Group. I might remind him that that report, 
bipartisan report, speaks articulately to redeployment, and so when we 
look at the costs of the war, $120 billion, Americans are asking, 
should one more drop of blood be shed? And my answer to that is, no. 
Should we engage? Yes. Should we involve in the surge of diplomacy? 
Absolutely.

We want to make sure that all of those nation states can work to help 
solve the divide, the civil war. But we must face the facts that this 
process that the President is continuing to repeat does not work. It is 
wracked with corruption and misdirection. There were no weapons of mass 
destruction.

As a member of the Homeland Security Committee, I have been disturbed 
this whole week as I listened to the Secretary of Homeland Security 
speak about his gut feeling of the possibility of a terrorist attack. 
I'm a member of that committee. I live every day with the idea that the 
question will be asked by Americans to the Homeland Security Committee 
and the Homeland Security Department, does the Secretary realize that 
we have fueled the fires of terrorism by training terrorists in this 
war.

And so when I speak of why we must end, it is to save lives. It is to 
reconcile Iraq, and it is to make America safer. I ask for support of 
the underlying legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2956, the Responsible 
Redeployment From Iraq Act. I rise in strong support of this 
legislation because I am listening, and responding to the will of the 
American people. Last November 2006, Americans went to polls by the 
millions united in their resolve to vote for change. They voted for a 
new direction and a change in the Bush administration's disastrous 
policy in Iraq. The new Democratic majority heard them and responded by 
passing H.R. 1591, the Iraq Accountability Act. The President vetoed 
the bill, demanding instead a continuation of the ancien regime under 
which the Republican-led Congress gave him a blank check to mismanage 
the occupation and reconstruction of Iraq.

Those days are over. No matter how many veto threats the President 
issues, this Congress is not going to give him a blank check to 
escalate and continue the war ad infinitum. It is long past time for 
change in Iraq. It is time for the people and Government of Iraq to 
take primary responsibility for their own country. It is time for the 
President to recognize the reality on the ground in Iraq. The time when 
a surge in troops is useful and necessary is past. It is now time to 
redeploy our troops and launch a diplomatic surge for national and 
political reconciliation in Iraq. H.R. 2956 will help achieve this goal 
and that is why I support the measure.

Mr. Speaker, there is no more important issue facing the Congress, 
the President, and the American people than the war in Iraq. It is a 
subject which agitates the passions of all Americans, including Members 
of Congress. The Framers understood that while the military does the 
fighting, a nation goes to war. That is why the Framers lodged the 
power to declare war in the Congress, the branch of Government closest 
to the people. They knew that the decision to go to war was too 
important to be left to the whim of a single person, no matter how wise 
or well-informed he or she might be.

Four years ago, President Bush stood under a banner that proclaimed 
''Mission Accomplished.'' If the mission was to further place our 
troops in harm's way at the hands of insurgents and sectarian violence, 
then it is mission accomplished. After spending more than $450 billion 
sacrificing the lives of 3,611 of America's finest citizen-soldiers, 
what have we accomplished and where are we headed?

I cannot support the President's waging of a war that has no clear 
direction, does not meet the benchmarks that the President set, and has 
no visible target.

Four years after launching the invasion, conquest, and occupation of 
Iraq, the evidence is clear and irrefutable: The preemptive invasion of 
Iraq, while a spectacularly executed military operation, was a 
strategic blunder without parallel in the history of American foreign 
policy. This is what can happen when the Congress allows itself to be 
stampeded into authorizing a president to launch a preemptive war of 
choice.

It is time to change our strategy in Iraq. It is time to engage the 
key stakeholders in the Middle East and make real strides towards 
securing a just and lasting peace in Iraq and for the Iraqi people. And 
most important, bring our troops home so they can be reunited with 
their families, friends, and neighbors.



That is why, Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 2956. The Responsible 
Redeployment From Iraq Act requires a responsible redeployment of U.S. 
troops beginning within 120 days of enactment and ending by April 1, 
2008. The legislation requires the President to publicly justify the 
post-redeployment missions for the U.S. military in Iraq and the 
minimum number of troops necessary to carry out those missions.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation is consistent with the advice of 
military and foreign policy experts, ensures the safety of our men and 
women in uniform, addresses our commitment to fighting terrorism, and 
reflects the will of the American people.

Mr. Speaker, the need for a new direction in Iraq could not be 
clearer. In the face of mounting evidence that progress is not being 
made in Iraq, military leaders, defense experts, Republican and 
Democratic Members of Congress, and the American people are demanding 
change. Yet the President continues to urge continued support for a 
failed policy that is not making America safer or supporting our 
troops.

In a report released today by the White House, the administration 
concedes that violence continues in Iraq and that the Iraqi Government 
has failed to meet key benchmarks endorsed by the President in January 
and political reconciliation is nonexistent. By the Bush 
administration's own admission, there is unsatisfactory progress on all 
of the political reconciliation benchmarks announced by the President 
on January 10, 2007.

In fact, just this week, the National Security Network reported that 
since the President announced his ''surge'' policy 6 months ago, more 
than 25,000 troops have been sent to Iraq, approximately 600 have been 
killed and more than 3,000 have been wounded.

Mr. Speaker, President Bush and Vice President Cheney have been given 
numerous chances and ample time by the American people and the Congress 
to straighten out the mess in Iraq. They have failed. It is little 
wonder that the criticism of the administration's failed policy in Iraq 
is mounting by the day. Respected military leaders, like LTG William 
Odom, have spoken forcefully. According to Lieutenant General Odom, 
''No effective new strategy can be devised for the United States until 
it begins withdrawing its forces from Iraq. Only that step will break 
the paralysis that now confronts us.''

Key Republican Senators are joining the chorus of critics. In 
addition to Foreign Relations Committee Ranking Member Senator Richard 
Lugar, some of the President's allies in Congress have spoken out. 
Senator Pete Domenici says, ''There's no reason to wait . . . [I am] 
trying to tell [Bush] that he must change his ways because there is 
nothing positive happening.'' Senator Elizabeth Dole says, ''It is my 
firm hope and belief that we can start bringing our troops home in 
2008.'' Senator Lamar Alexander says, ''The President needs a new 
strategy.''

And just this week, in a USA Today/Gallup Poll, more than 70 percent 
of Americans favor removal of almost all U.S. troops from Iraq by April 
2008, leaving a limited number for counterterrorism efforts.













Military Success in Iraq Act


Finally Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation because it is 
grounded in the fundamental principles I first announced in February of 
this year when I introduced H.R. 930, the Military Success in Iraq and 
Diplomatic Surge for National and Political Reconciliation in Iraq Act 
of 2007. I introduced this legislation, the Military Success in Iraq 
Act of 2007, MSIA or ''Messiah,'' to offer an honorable deliverance 
from Iraq. Let me explain.


In October 2002, the Congress authorized the President to use 
military force against Iraq to achieve the following objectives:

(1) To disarm Iraq of any weapons of mass destruction that could 
threaten the security of the United States and international peace in 
the Persian Gulf region;

(2) To change the Iraqi regime so that Saddam Hussein and his 
Baathist party no longer posed a threat to the people of Iraq or its 
neighbors;

(3) To bring to justice any members of al Qaeda known or found to be 
in Iraq bearing responsibility for the attacks on the United States, 
its citizens, and interests, including the attacks that occurred on 
September 11,2001;

(4) To ensure that the regime of Saddam Hussein would not provide 
weapons of mass destruction to international terrorists, including al 
Qaeda; and

(5) To enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council 
resolutions regarding Iraq.

Every one of these objectives has long been accomplished. Iraq does 
not possess weapons of mass destruction. Saddam Hussein has been 
deposed, captured, and dealt with by the Iraqi people. The American 
military has caught or killed virtually every member of al Qaeda in 
Iraq that was even remotely responsible for the 9-11 attack on our 
country. Last, all relevant U.N. resolutions relating to Iraq have been 
enforced. In other words, every objective for which the use of force in 
Iraq was authorized by the 2002 resolution has been achieved.

Mr. Speaker, since the objectives which led Congress to pass the 2002 
Authorization to Use Military Force (AUMF) have been achieved, I 
believe the authorization to use that military force expires 
automatically. My legislation affirms this proposition. Additionally, I 
believe, and my legislation provides, that it is the Congress that is 
the ultimate arbiter as to whether the objectives set forth in a 
congressional AUMF have been achieved.

Mr. Speaker, where a Congressional authorization to use military 
force has expired, the President must obtain a new authorization to 
continue the use force. My legislation requires the President to do 
that as well. Finally, my bill requires that if the Congress does not 
vote to reauthorize the use of force in Iraq within 90 days after 
determining that the objectives set forth in the 2002 AUMF have been 
achieved, all American armed forces in Iraq must be redeployed out of 
Iraq. Thus, under my legislation, an up-or-down vote must be held by 
the House and Senate to continue waging war in Iraq.

I am not talking about ''cutting and running,'' or surrendering to 
terrorists. And I certainly am not talking about staying in Iraq 
forever or the foreseeable future. The Armed Forces won the war they 
were sent to fight. Their civilian leadership has not succeeded in 
winning the peace. That is why the United States should surge 
diplomatically and politically.

Title II of my legislation, the ''Diplomatic Surge for Political and 
National Reconciliation in Iraq Act,'' implements twelve of the most 
important recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. This approach is now 
gaining widespread support among many who had previously disparaged 
diplomacy in favor of military force.

All six of Iraq's neighbors--Iran, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Saudi 
Arabia, and Kuwait--have an interest in a stabilized Iraq because as 
the Iraq Study Group report makes clear, none of these countries wants 
to live with an Iraq that, after our redeployment, becomes a failed 
state or a humanitarian catastrophe that could become a haven for 
terrorists or hemorrhages millions more refugees who will stream into 
neighboring countries.

Mr. Speaker, in addition to the enormous financial cost, the human 
cost to the men and women of the United States Armed Forces has also 
been high but they have willingly paid it. Operation Iraqi Freedom 
has exacerbated the Veterans Administration health care facility 
maintenance backlog; placed an undue strain on the delivery of medical 
treatment and rehabilitative services for current and new veterans; and 
exacted a heavy toll on the equipment, training and readiness 
requirements, and the families of the men and women of the United 
States Armed Forces.


Mr. Speaker, everyday when I walk into my office I am reminded of the 
courageous young men and women who have given their lives in service to 
our nation. Outside my office I have displayed a poster-board that 
displays the names and faces of those who made the ultimate sacrifice. 
The poster-board is nearly full. I do not want to start another board. 
Let me call the roll of honor of the remarkable sons and daughters of 
Houston, Texas who have made the ultimate sacrifice and gave the last 
full measure of devotion: Capt. Eric L. Allton, Petty Officer 1st Class 
Howard E. Babcock IV, Spec. Adolfo C. Carballo, Staff Sgt. Brian T. 
Craig, Staff Sgt. Terrence D. Dunn, Pfc. Analaura Esparza Gutierrez, 
1st Lt. David M. Fraser, Lance Cpl. Phillip C. George, Spec. Clinton R. 
Gertson, Capt. Andrew R. Houghton, Master Sgt. Ivica Jerak, Spec. John 
P. Johnson, Pfc. Roy L. Jones III, Cpl. Brian M. Kennedy, Staff Sgt. 
Dexter S. Kimble,

Spec. Scott Q. Larson Jr., Staff Sgt. Hector Leija, Pfc. Jesus A. 
Leon-Perez, Sgt. Keelan L. Moss, Tech. Sgt. Walter M. Moss Jr., Staff 
Sgt. Kenneth I. Pugh, Staff Sgt. William D. Richardson, Staff Sgt. 
Timothy J. Roark, Sgt. Michael T. Robertson, Cpl. Benjamin S. Rosales, 
Staff Sgt. Alberto V. Sanchez, Pfc. Leroy Sandoval Jr., Pfc. Armando 
Soriano, Cpl. Tomas Sotelo Jr., Sgt. Danny R. Soto, Spec. Juan M. 
Torres, Lance Cpl. Thomas J. Zapp.

Mr. Speaker, the misguided, mismanaged, and costly debacle that is 
the Iraq War which was preemptively launched by President Bush in March 
2003 despite the opposition of me and 125 of my colleagues in the House 
of Representatives has lasted longer than America's involvement in 
WorId War II, the greatest conflict in all of human history.

But there is a difference. The Second World War ended in complete and 
total victory for the United States and its allies. But then again, in 
that conflict America was led by FDR, a great Commander-in-Chief, who 
had a plan to win the war and secure the peace, listened to his 
generals, and sent troops in sufficient numbers and sufficiently 
trained and equipped to do the job.

My friends, I say with sadness that we have not enjoyed that same 
quality of leadership


throughout the conduct of the Iraq War. The results, not surprisingly, 
have been disastrous. To date, the war in Iraq has claimed the lives of 
3,611 brave servicemen and women. The last three months of the war have 
been among the deadliest (104 in April, 123 in May, 101 in June, and 32 
in the first week of July). More than 26,690 Americans have been 
wounded, many suffering the most horrific injuries. American taxpayers 
have paid nearly $450 billion to sustain this misadventure. To grasp 
the magnitude of this number, consider that American taxpayers are 
spending: $120,000,000,000 per year; $10,000,000,000 per month; 
$2,307,692,380 per week; $329,670,330 per day; $13,736,264 per hour; 
$228,938 per minute; $3,816 per second.


Mr. Speaker, last November the American people signaled clearly their 
loss of confidence in the President's leadership and their desire for a 
new direction in Iraq. The new Democratic majority has begun to 
deliver. And we will not rest, Mr. Speaker, until we are clearly on a 
glide path to the day when our troops come home.

And even then our work will not be done. We must still be about the 
business of repairing the damage to America's international reputation 
and prestige. But this Democratic majority, led by the Progressive 
Caucus and the Out of Iraq Caucus, has ushered in a new era of 
oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and 
reconstruction contracting and procurement.

I urge all members to join me in supporting H.R. 2956. This is the 
best way to ensure accountability to our soldiers who have been sent 
into battle without proper training or equipment or a clear mission. It 
is the best way to keep faith with our veterans who are not getting the 
best medical care when they come home. Passing this legislation is 
essential to restoring our military that is being stretched to the 
limits by the Bush policy. Last, it is absolutely necessary to regain 
the confidence of the American people who demand a new direction in 
Iraq.