# HONORING SEVEN AMERICANS KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN ON DECEMBER 30, 2009
## `ec1740466075b671859a5f841d1b2a80`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington â€” 20 January 2010`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute 
to the seven brave Americans who recently lost their lives in 
Afghanistan.

I was deeply saddened to learn of the seven Americans who died in the 
December 30th suicide blast at Forward Operating Base Chapman. This 
tragic bombing was the deadliest single attack on U.S. intelligence 
personnel in decades.

Over and over again, the men and women who serve the Central 
Intelligence Agency have shown their dedication to their mission and 
the protection of the United States.

These seven Americans served with distinction at a facility on the 
front lines in the Khost province, an area which borders North 
Waziristan and is believed to be al-Qaeda's home base.

Unfortunately, this terrible event also has a connection to my home 
state. We've been hit hard in the Northwest. Over 60 service members 
from Washington State or assigned from Washington military 
installations have died in Afghanistan. Of that, 32 were killed in the 
past year from Fort Lewis, a major Army base in my district.

Regrettably this tragic event only adds to that total. One of the 
victims, Dane Clark Paresi, was a DuPont, Washington resident and 
former Fort Lewis soldier. Paresi retired from 1st Special Forces Group 
at Fort Lewis in 2008, concluding 27 years in the Army. He is survived 
by his wife, two daughters, parents and five siblings.

I would like to take this opportunity to extend my heartfelt sympathy 
to his family and the families of the other brave Americans who lost 
their lives. Their service will not be forgotten.

For the six additional Americans that were injured in the attack, I 
would like to offer my support and hope for their full recovery.

The men and women of the CIA have done everything their country has 
asked of them and more. We all should have the utmost respect and 
admiration for their service and sacrifice. The loss of these highly 
trained counterterrorism experts will be deeply felt throughout the 
Intelligence Community.

And with that, Madam Speaker, I would urge my colleagues to support 
this resolution.