---
---

# None
## `ec1c4f497f48cfb6f42d1b29e611a817`
`Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the 
conference report accompanying the fiscal year 2008 appropriations bill 
funding the Departments of Labor, HHS, and Education, as well as 
Military Construction and the Department of Veterans Affairs.

On the domestic side, this legislation makes important investments in 
our health care and education programs. After many years of flat 
funding and small increases that have resulted in funding reductions 
when taking inflation into account, the National Institutes of Health 
would receive a 4 percent increase over current funding levels. This 
legislation provides $30 billion for life-saving medical research, much 
of which is performed in my back yard at the Baylor College of 
Medicine, the MD Anderson Cancer Center, UT Health Science Center, and 
many other impressive research facilities located in the Texas Medical 
Center.

I am also pleased that the bill provides a 35 percent increase for 
the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program. The $2.4 billion in 
LIHEAP funding that this bill provides will better ensure that LIHEAP 
funding is more equitably distributed among cold weather and hot 
weather states. By providing LIHEAP funding above the threshold of 
$1.975 billion, this legislation ensures that the funding will be 
sufficient to meet the historical needs of cold weather states while 
also recognizing the unmet needs of hot weather states, which 
experience higher levels of weather-related deaths.

I would also like to thank the conference committee for retaining 
House-passed funding for two projects in our district. The conference 
committee generously provided funding for Gateway to Care, the 
community health care access collaborative in Harris County. Gateway to 
Care will utilize this funding to help coordinate the deployment of 
health information technology among the county's health care clinics. 
The bill also provides much-needed funding for the Harris County 
Hospital District's Diabetes Program, which offers a culturally-
sensitive, interdisciplinary, and educational approach to the treatment 
of diabetes in our community, which experiences higher than normal 
rates of this devastating disease.

As Veterans' Day approaches, we should also highlight the significant 
funding increases made in the Military Construction/VA portion of the 
bill. The conference agreement provides a total of $109.2 billion for 
veterans' affairs and military construction programs, roughly $18 
billion more than the current level and $4 billion more than the 
president's request. For the last 11 months, this Congress has 
demonstrated its commitment to fulfilling the promises made to our 
veterans, and this bill reaffirms that commitment in the strongest 
terms by providing the largest funding increase in VA history. With the 
current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan creating hundreds of thousands of 
new veterans, this level of funding reassures our veterans, our troops, 
and their families that this Congress will fulfill the promises we made 
to those who fight for our country, even after they are done with their 
service.

I would also like to offer my thanks for the inclusion of funding for 
a new fire station at Ellington Field. I have supported this project 
for several years, and am glad to see it funded in this bill. The 
existing fire station at Ellington field is in a rapidly deteriorating 
condition and does not meet OSHA or Air Force Standards. Roof leaks and 
lack of insulation have resulted in equipment being destroyed and 
extremely high operating costs. New firefighting apparatus must be 
parked outside the station because they will not fit into the truck 
bays. This fire station supports all flying operations at Ellington 
Field including Air National Guard, Army National Guard, US Coast 
Guard, NASA, and civilian aircraft. Construction of the new fire 
station at Ellington is critical for the Texas Air National Guard and 
all units stationed at Ellington Field, and I am pleased funding for 
this project was included.

Madam Speaker, I again urge my colleagues to join me in supporting 
this conference report.