# None
## `ec1da38432de23132d7b41714c32f957`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 4 June 2008`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Madam Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3021, 
the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act.

Madam Chairman, as the only former State schools chief serving in 
Congress, I have always worked to be a voice for children and their 
schools.

One of the biggest challenges we face in my home State of North 
Carolina--and really across this country--is a lack of adequate 
facilities for learning to take place. We simply must make a commitment 
to get our children out of trailers and into quality classrooms.

You just heard my colleague talk about what we're doing overseas in 
Iraq and Afghanistan building schools. If we can build them overseas, 
we certainly can build them here in the United States. This bill is an 
important first step toward improving our children's education.

We will need to follow the authorization of these grants with full 
funding in appropriations. And we need to ensure that local and State 
authorities can raise money in other ways, as would be provided by in 
the America's Better Classroom Act through interest-free bonds to build 
more schools. There really is no substitute for bricks and mortar when 
it comes to quality schools and meeting the educational goals of our 
community.

I applaud Chairman Miller and Congressman Chandler for their 
leadership on this issue, and urge my colleagues to join me in support 
of H.R. 3021, to improve the quality of where our children go to school 
and help them to learn and to be able to compete in the 21st century.