---
---

# HONORING U.S. AIR FORCE RESERVIST ADAM TOREM AS THE 2010 HOWARD O.  SCOTT CITIZEN-SOLDIER OF THE YEAR
## `ec25b62e19318a30c0bc2702713831b7`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 30 July 2010`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor U.S. 
Air Force Reservist Adam Torem, whom the Tacoma-Pierce County Chamber 
of Commerce has honored as the 2010 Howard 0. Scott Citizen-Soldier of 
the Year. I ask that my colleagues join me in honoring Mr. Torem for 
this commendable recognition.

Madam Speaker, the Air Force Reserves of the United States Armed 
Forces have long played an important role in the defense of our 
country. Originally conceived as a standby force for emergencies, the 
U.S. Air Force Reserves has been a Major Command of the United States 
Air Force since 1997. The 67,000-member force has evolved into the Air 
Force's Wingman, performing the same missions as the Air Force and 
working side-by-side on the same equipment.

Currently, thousands of reservists are risking their lives in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, and their service should be acknowledged with 
gratitude and immense respect. In many instances, Air Force Reservists 
maintain full-time professional positions while serving their country 
as active citizen-soldiers. It is laudable when reservists' contribute 
to their communities further through additional volunteerism and public 
service. Unfortunately, reservists' contributions to their communities 
are often overlooked.

Adam Torem, a U.S. Air Force reservist from University Place, 
Washington, has successfully balanced his career, his commitment to the 
Air Force Reserves, and considerable community service. His admirable 
community involvements have included mentoring young people at his 
synagogue and coaching young, future engineers in the FIRST LEGO League 
Challenge.

In addition to his work in shaping future generations, Mr. Torem 
advocates for service men and women in his community. As a former Chair 
to the Washington State Bar Association's Legal Assistance to Military 
Personnel Section, Mr. Torem volunteers for programs that provide free 
legal advice and counseling on housing and other issues to other 
members of the Reserve and National Guard. Mr. Torem also uses his 
experience as an attorney to assist in state legislation, advocating 
for Washington State's active duty service members. When not on 
military duty, Mr. Torem serves as an Administrative Law Judge for the 
Washington Utilities & Transportation Commission.

The 2010 Howard 0. Scott Citizen-Soldier of the Year award was 
presented in partnership by the Tacoma-Pierce County Chamber of 
Commerce's Military Affairs Committee and the Kiwanis Club of Tacoma.

Madam Speaker, I congratulate Adam Torem on his many remarkable 
achievements, his venerable service to his country and community, and 
the recognition of his many efforts as the 2010 Howard 0. Scott 
Citizen-Soldier of the Year.
