# PROVIDING ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES TO SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR  AFGHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION
## `ec3e338846bcfce8cc9f2afe6e385f8d`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS â€” 15 June 2009`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. I yield myself as much time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this legislation. The United 
States has committed over $30 billion in assistance to Afghanistan 
since 2001, and with the President's stated intention to increase the 
size and scope of our efforts, it is necessary that we provide all of 
our inspectors general operating in Afghanistan the authorities and 
resources necessary to mitigate fraud, waste, and abuse in these 
programs. However, the Office of the Special Inspector General for 
Afghanistan Reconstruction, or SIGAR, currently lacks such authorities 
and resources.

Despite its establishment nearly 1 year ago, SIGAR officials have 
reportedly had difficulty hiring individuals for this unique and 
challenging assignment, and the staffing shortfall has contributed to 
the lack of an independent audit or investigation by the office thus 
far.

This legislation would amend the National Defense Authorization Act 
for fiscal year 2008 to provide to SIGAR personnel authorities similar 
to those given to the Special Inspector General for Iraq 
Reconstruction. The legislation would expedite the standard hiring 
process for civil service provisions by permitting SIGAR to use 
employment authorities granted to heads of temporary organizations. 
Such authorities allow organizations to hire staff for limited terms, 
notwithstanding the requirements normally applicable to civil service 
positions.

This legislation is intended to help the SIGAR quickly hire 
experienced, well-qualified employees to conduct necessary oversight of 
reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan. Employees hired under this new 
authority could serve until the termination of the SIGAR office.

I strongly urge my colleagues to support this legislation which gives 
the SIGAR additional hiring authorities to facilitate his ability to 
quickly hire experienced, well-qualified employees to fill critical 
positions.

I reserve the balance of my time.