---
---

# None
## `ec4b021ba6164bc0b4832a5143a3fc04`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Madam President, I rise to speak about S. 4, but I 
thank my friend and colleague from Arizona, Senator Kyl, for his 
report. It was very interesting for me to hear, and he will probably 
not be surprised to hear I was both encouraged and in agreement with a 
lot of what he had to say. I particularly heard that Senator Kyl found 
in the field the first reactions to the implementation of the new plan 
for Iraq have been encouraging. We all understand it is early, but it 
conforms with what I have heard from people I have spoken to from Iraq, 
in that particularly in the neighborhoods in which the joint United 
States-Iraqi security forces have established dominance in Baghdad, 
there has been a remarkable and significant drop in the sectarian 
violence via death squads. Obviously, it is still possible, if someone 
is crazy enough to be prepared to blow themselves up in a car in a 
crowd, that the bombings will occur, but I appreciate that 
encouragement.

I also agree with Senator Kyl that both Houses of Congress spoke on 
these nonbinding resolutions. My colleague and I were both against 
them. So I suppose what it shows is at this point there is a majority 
in both Chambers, although not 60 votes here, that is prepared to say 
in a nonbinding resolution they don't support the new plan, which 
Senator Kyl and I would say is a new plan to achieve success in Iraq, 
but that there clearly, in my opinion, are not the votes, not a 
majority in either Chamber, to do anything else, and certainly not to 
cut off funding for the new plan, which is the specific authority 
Congress is given in the Constitution.

So I want to echo what I heard Senator Kyl say, which is that I think 
this is the moment for a pause over on this side for what I have called 
a truce in the political war here about the war in Iraq.

Let's give General Petraeus and his troops an opportunity to make 
this work. If, God forbid, they don't, then there will be plenty of 
time for amendments and resolutions and all the rest because between 
now and then--General Petraeus said to us, when he was here before the 
Armed Services Committee, that by the summer he would have an idea, 
based on some evidence, of whether the new plan was working, and he 
would report to us. He will begin to report quite soon, I think, on 
what he is seeing.

Since I don't see that there is anything that will pass both Houses, 
certainly nothing that will pass both Houses and be signed by the 
President to try to block the carrying out of this new strategy, then I 
think everybody would gain if we just did something that doesn't come 
naturally to us, which is to remain silent for a while--particularly if 
the sound and the fury will ultimately accomplish nothing between now 
and then.

I thank my friend from Arizona.

Madam President, I rise to speak about S. 4. I thank my colleagues 
for voting overwhelmingly to invoke cloture on S. 4. The bill, if I 
understand the state of parliamentary play now, actually will not be 
formally before the Senate for debate and amendments until tomorrow 
morning. But I thought I might expedite the matter--because this is a 
big bill, it is an important bill, there will be many amendments; I 
think we will be on it several days--if I came over and offered my 
opening statement on the bill today. I believe Senator Collins, the 
ranking Republican member on the committee, may intend, as her schedule 
allows, to do the same.

Incidentally, Senator Collins and I have--what was for me an honor--
worked very closely together on this bill to bring it out of committee. 
I am very pleased the final vote was across party lines: 16 in favor, 1 
abstention. So we bring the bill to the floor with a real sense of 
bipartisanship.

The bill represents the hard work of the membership of the Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and includes provisions 
that are in the jurisdictions of other key committees as well, 
particularly Commerce and Banking, during which occasions Senator 
Inouye and Senator Dodd may exercise their right, with my 
encouragement, to manage those parts of the debate.

I thank the majority leader, Senator Reid, for working with all of 
the committees that have contributed to this effort in bringing before 
the Senate this comprehensive legislation that I am convinced will make 
our country safer. I look forward to working in the days ahead with my 
colleagues on both


sides of the aisle to move the legislation through the Senate, into 
conference committee, and then ultimately to the President's desk for 
signature.

September 11, 2001, shocked us. It was a tragedy of unspeakable 
proportions and human loss. It showed us, in that loss, how we had 
suffered from what the 9/11 Commission itself called a failure of 
imagination. By that they meant an inability to imagine that there were 
people in the world who would do something this outrageously inhuman, 
striking buildings, symbols of America, but without regard to the 
diversity of human beings in those buildings and the lives that they 
were leading.

Someone said that on 9/11 the terrorists showed that they hate us 
more than they love their own lives. That awakened us to our 
vulnerability and brought us into a new age.

I spoke, when I spoke on behalf of cloture, of the families of those 
we lost on 9/11 who have been persistent and honorable and inspiring 
advocates for closing the vulnerabilities that compromised and ended 
the lives of so many of their loved ones. They fought with us on behalf 
of the bill that Senator McCain and I introduced to create the 9/11 
Commission. They then worked very hard to advocate for the 
recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. They deserve a lot of credit, 
as do a lot of other people in Congress and in the administration, for 
the passage of the 2004 intelligence reform legislation that adopted so 
many of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission.

In that bill we created a strong Director of National Intelligence to 
forge greater unity of effort among our intelligence agencies as they 
moved forward to inform us about the plans and activities and 
intentions of our enemies, to stop them before they strike us again.

There are many reasons on this day we can be grateful that America 
has not been the victim of terrorist acts again. Some of it is just 
plain good fortune. Some of it, however, I think is the work of the 
agencies created by the 9/11 legislation in 2004. Some of it is, 
without doubt, a result of the grace of God. We created in that bill 
also a National Counterterrorism Center to improve interagency planning 
to achieve goals in the war against terrorism.

One of the most exciting moments I have had as a Senator was to go 
out to the National Counterterrorism Center. I urge my colleagues to 
take the time. Established by the 9/11 legislation in 2004 to make 
sure, to use a very simplistic metaphor for a very complicated 
situation, that never again would our Government fail to connect the 
dots that would have presented the warning that a terrorist attack was 
coming.

This National Counterterrorism Center is out there. It has all the 
relevant agencies, they are constantly streaming information, receiving 
information from around the country, around the world, and cooperating 
with one another to protect our security. We mandated in the 2004 
legislation the development of an information sharing environment to 
facilitate the sharing of national-security-related information among 
the different branches and agencies of the Federal Government and also 
to make sure that the Federal, State, and local governments were 
cooperating. When you think about it, State and local first responders 
are not just first responders, they have the ability, with the hundreds 
of thousands of eyes and ears that they bring to law enforcement, to be 
also first preventers. That was a goal of the information sharing 
environment we established.

In the 2004 legislation we made significant improvements to border 
and transportation security, focusing on aviation security, of course; 
building on legislation passed in the immediate aftermath of 9/11, 
because of our obvious anger that the existing systems of our aviation 
structure were used to attack the American people directly.

This is only a partial list of some of the significant achievements 
that resulted from that legislation that I am convinced improved our 
Nation's intelligence capability and the security of the American 
people at home. But we know from ongoing congressional oversight, from 
the work of the members of the 9/11 Commission who continued to be 
focused on our homeland security, and from common sense, that there is 
more to be done. Senator Reid made adoption of this 9/11 implementation 
legislation a priority for this Congress.


At a hearing in January that I was privileged to call as the new 
chairman of our committee, Homeland Security, 9/11 Commissioners and 
family members of 9/11 victims urged us to go forward and finish the 
job that we started with the 2004 legislation: to implement parts of 
the report that were unimplemented by that legislation and to go back 
and look at some things that were not quite working right or were not 
fully implemented and see if we could do a better job to close some of 
the gaps that we left after 2004.

Some of the important Commission recommendations we included in the 
Senate legislation in 2004 were taken out or diluted in conference. 
Other provisions that Congress did enact have unfortunately been 
implemented poorly.

How important is it that we go ahead with this legislation to finish 
the job we started after the 9/11 Commission report? Let me quote from 
the 9/11 Report:




 The men and women of the World War II generation rose to 


 the challenges of the 1940s and 1950s. They restructured the 


 government so it could protect the country.



 That is now the job of the generation that experienced 9/


 11. Those attacks showed emphatically, that ways of doing 


 business rooted in a different era are just not good enough. 


 Americans should not settle for incremental, ad hoc, 


 adjustments to a system designed generations ago for a world 


 that no longer exists.


This bill that we will begin considering in the Senate tomorrow 
continues the process of securing our Nation in this new era where our 
enemies don't wear the uniforms of soldiers or follow any traditional 
laws of combat but, rather, move silently among us, probing for 
weaknesses while plotting attacks on innocent civilians.

This bill will strengthen our ability to respond to not just 
terrorist attacks but also preparing our Federal, State, and local 
governments to better respond to natural disasters. We are trying to 
create an attitude in this bill, an ''all hazards'' attitude that 
increases our homeland security against the threat of terrorist attack, 
but also, in doing so, prepares our Government to respond better to 
natural disasters--of course, thinking now of the extent to which our 
Government at all levels showed that it was incapable of responding 
adequately during Hurricane Katrina.

Let me now discuss some of the important provisions in the bill. The 
first I want to talk about is information sharing. The 9/11 Report 
showed us that the different agencies had different pieces of 
information that should have aroused suspicion about the attack that 
came on 9/11, but because those pieces were never pulled together, 
there was no way to assemble that monstrous mosaic and to see the full 
picture it created so as to be able to stop it. One of the most 
important innovations since 9/11 is the establishment of fusion centers 
to share information within and between States. This legislation would 
improve the crucial sharing of intelligence and information both within 
the Federal Government and with State, local, and tribal governments, 
as well as creating standards for those State, local, and regional 
fusion centers that will be tied to the allocation of homeland security 
grants.

While preserving the authority of State and local governments over 
fusion centers, this legislation, S. 4, requires DHS, the Department of 
Homeland Security, to provide essential elements of support and 
coordination to the centers. It authorizes the assignment of homeland 
security intelligence analysts to the centers to lend their expertise 
and to serve as a channel for information to and from the Federal 
Government. It also creates a program for State, local, and tribal 
officials to spend time at the Department of Homeland Security's Office 
of Intelligence and Analysis to learn about its intelligence 
information sharing functions and to serve as a link to the State and 
local governments.

This legislation also will strengthen the information sharing 
environment which we created in the 2004 legislation. It will enhance 
the authority of the Program Manager for that environment by allowing 
the issuance of Government-wide standards whereby all


agencies of the Federal Government would be required to operate under 
the same rules and guidelines and would not be permitted to conceal 
information.

The legislation, S. 4, would encourage the elimination of principles 
such as ''need to know'' which allow the holder of information in a 
given Federal agency to control its dissemination to other governmental 
agencies and, thus, act as a bureaucratic barrier to effective 
information sharing. We, instead, aim to encourage, through this 
legislation, the development of a ''need to share information'' culture 
in which information is made available--with appropriate safeguards, of 
course--to all who could make use of it in the war against terror.

Let me go now to homeland security grants. This legislation will 
enhance homeland security grants to State and local governments and 
first responders. We simply have underfunded this critical element of 
homeland security. The first responders, first preventers, need more 
help to better protect their constituents, those who live in the areas 
they serve, from potential terrorist attacks and natural disasters.

Our proposal, S. 4, would authorize over $3.5 billion for each of the 
next 3 years for key grant programs. It turns around a precipitous 
decline in funding for homeland security. It provides for a 
comprehensive system of both terrorism-oriented and all-hazards grants. 
It will ensure that grants primarily intended to bolster prevention of 
and preparedness for terrorist attacks will be distributed 
overwhelmingly based on the risk to an area from a terrorist attack.

Our committee believes we have achieved a balanced proposal that 
gives most of the money out based on risk but still recognizes there is 
risk in this new post-9/11 age everywhere and that in an all-hazards 
approach, first responders everywhere need to be assisted to protect 
their citizens not just from a potential terrorist attack but from the 
consequences of a natural disaster.

Interoperable communications: We have known for decades we needed to 
improve communications operability and interoperability at the 
different levels of Government. Yet tragically the inability of fire 
and police to communicate with one another at the World Trade Center 
after the attacks of 9/11 cost lives. That is a painful fact. Hurricane 
Katrina showed us once again how important it is to have communications 
that can both survive the initial disaster and have the capabilities to 
allow different first responding agencies to talk to each other by 
sharing voice as well as data communications.

Under this grant program, States would be required to demonstrate 
that the grants they are applying for and receive would be used in a 
way that is consistent with their statewide communications 
interoperability plans and the National Emergency Communications Plan. 
In other words, this is not going to be just ad hoc proposals from 
every first responder for some money to use as he or she desires for 
their vision of interoperability. It has to be part of a statewide plan 
connected to the national plan.

The States receiving the money would be required to pass at least 80 
percent of the total amount of the grants they receive on to local and 
tribal governments. The legislation authorizes $400 million for 
interoperability improvements--lifesaving, in my opinion--in 2008; $500 
million in 2009; $600 million in 2010; $800 million in 2011; and $1 
billion in 2012.

Let me go on to terrorist travel. The legislation contains provisions 
to improve our ability to disrupt terrorists' travel and infiltration 
of the United States, which the 9/11 Commission said was just as 
important as crippling their financial networks. That certainly makes 
sense.

It requires the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of 
State to implement security enhancements to the so-called visa waiver 
program. It also is increasingly clear that serious vulnerabilities 
exist within the visa waiver program. There are enhancements to the 
program that, if adopted in this bill, will close many of those 
vulnerabilities, including mandating improved reporting by foreign 
countries on the visa waiver program of lost or stolen passports, 
requiring countries to share information about prospective visitors who 
may pose a threat to the U.S., and authorizing an electronic travel 
authorization system which would require travelers to apply in advance 
for authorization to visit America, thus allowing their names to be 
checked against terrorist watch lists well before they board airplanes.

I note Senator Collins is on the floor of the Senate, our ranking 
member. I am going to yield to her in a few minutes. But she has 
considerably strengthened this section of the bill to protect America 
from people with the intent to harm us through acts of terrorism using 
this visa waiver program.

Next, privacy and civil liberties: This legislation also makes 
important steps forward to ensure that as we fight terrorism, we do not 
trample on the rights of Americans we are pledged to defend. The 
legislation includes provisions very similar to those included in the 
Senate-passed version of the Terrorism Prevention Act with regard to 
the Privacy and Civil Liberties Board.

I now move on to biosurveillance. The legislation enhances sharing of 
critical information by authorizing and improving upon an existing 
effort within the Department of Homeland Security to establish a 
National Biosurveillance Integration Center.

Next, private sector preparedness: The 9/11 Commission found that the 
private sector remains largely unprepared and that ignoring private 
sector preparedness could come at a huge cost because so much 
infrastructure, so many targets of terrorists are in private hands. To 
address this critical problem, S. 4 will promote private sector 
preparedness, without a mandate, by creating a voluntary certification 
program that will allow private sector entities to become certified as 
being in compliance with recommended national preparedness standards. 
This is an important step forward and will quite sensibly promote, for 
instance, evacuation plans and steps beyond that.

The legislation also strengthens private sector preparedness by 
requiring that the Department of Homeland Security establish and report 
on a list of critical infrastructure across the Nation that would cause 
catastrophic damage if disrupted, or destroyed. This will strengthen 
and clarify what is a murky process right now and will focus our 
attention on protecting those parts of critical infrastructure.

Our legislation also improves upon the existing National Strategy for 
Transportation Security by ensuring that risk-based priorities 
identified by the Department are based on the risk assessments 
conducted by the Department.


The legislation also requires the President and Congress to publicly 
disclose the total amounts of appropriations requested, authorized, and 
ultimately appropriated for the American intelligence community. This 
responds directly to a recommendation of the 9/11 Commission and will 
improve Congress's ability to oversee the conduct and progress of our 
intelligence agencies creating standards of accountability.

I stress, this is the bottom line of the budget: to give Members of 
Congress and the American people an idea of how much we are investing 
in intelligence to protect their security and give us some sense of the 
accountability that we should apply to the intelligence community in 
delivering that funding.

TSA screeners: This will be debated at some length, I am sure. The 
legislation includes a provision which I was pleased to cosponsor with 
the occupant of the Chair, Senator McCaskill from Missouri, which will 
ensure that screeners at the Transportation Security Administration--
with whom we have become very familiar as we come and go from 
airports--have the same employment rights as others in TSA and the 
Department of Homeland Security. There is no good reason to deny these 
rights to these people. We are only applying to them the same rights as 
other people within TSA and others in law enforcement in the Department 
of Homeland Security have, with no negative effect on their performance 
of those responsibilities.

Madam President, as you can see, this is a very comprehensive bill. I 
have not touched on many parts of it in this statement. I have tried to 
focus on the most important. What I am convinced of is that if this 
bill passes and


becomes law, the American people will be safer from both terrorism and 
the consequences of natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina, than 
they are today.

All of the hard work of the committee members, including particularly 
my ranking member, Senator Collins, gives me some sense of confidence, 
along with the work done by our staffs on both sides of the aisle, that 
this bill really will achieve the goals the 9/11 Commission stated in 
their report and the hopes that the families of those who were lost on 
9/11 have that we act in a way on their behalf and on behalf of all the 
American people to be able to say we have done everything possible to 
make sure no other Americans suffer the tragic pain and continuing loss 
that these American heroes suffered when their loved ones' lives were 
ended in the brutal terrorist attacks of 9/11.

I have a sense of urgency about this bill. I believe every day we do 
not do some of the things this bill would enable and establish and 
support financially is another day in which we are not as secure at 
home as we should be. This is the carrying out of the first 
constitutional responsibility we have to ensure domestic tranquility 
and provide for the common defense, to do so in a way that those who 
wrote the Constitution could never have dreamed we would have to do. 
But that is the world we live in today. That is the reality we must 
face. This is the action we must summon and carry out together to 
dispatch our responsibility.

Madam President, in the preface to the 9/11 Report, Chairman Kean and 
Vice Chairman Hamilton wrote:




 We hope our report will encourage our fellow citizens to 


 study, reflect--and act.


Well, we have studied and we have reflected. Now is the time, once 
again, to act to build a safer and more secure America for the 
generations to come.

I look forward to a good, spirited debate. I hope when we are done, 
the bill will be even stronger than it is today. We will start 
tomorrow. I urge my colleagues to come to the floor, even this 
afternoon, to file amendments because Senator Collins and I would like, 
when we move to this bill tomorrow morning--having carried out our 
managers' responsibility to make opening statements--to move right to 
the amendments.

I thank the Chair.

I think Senator Collins was called from the Senate floor momentarily, 
but I know she will be back before I yield.

Madam President, the consent request I am about to propound has been 
cleared on both sides.

I ask unanimous consent that following morning business on Wednesday, 
February 28, the Senate proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 
57, S. 4, the 9/11 Commission recommendations legislation.