---
---

# PUTTING POLITICS ASIDE
## `ec4d7dd97a7a8d4f91effe4f90445d98`
`Mr. KERRY — 4 February 2010`

---


Mr. KERRY. Madam President, I wish to thank my colleague, Paul Kirk, 
for his eloquent and important comments to the Senate. He said a moment 
ago he hoped a newcomer's perspective would be a constructive 
contribution to the debate. I think all my colleagues would agree that 
whether in the caucus or in his maiden speech before the Senate or in 
his comments just now, Paul Kirk has made an important contribution to 
the Senate.

Shortly after his oath of office last September, I said Paul was 
smart, modest, polite, civil, and willing to share credit, and despite 
all that, I still thought he would be a terrific Senator. I think all 
of us would agree he has been a terrific Senator in a short span of 
time.

At a time of enormous upheaval in Massachusetts, a time of mourning, 
there was no one who was more suited for the moment than Paul Kirk, and 
there was no one who understood the meaning of the moment better than 
Paul Kirk--Ted Kennedy's friend of 40 years.

Everyone would agree Paul hit the ground running. He was familiar 
with Teddy's staff and was able to bring highly qualified people 
himself. He had a command of all the issues that were facing the 
Senate. He had a special understanding of the politics that are played 
in Washington. Paul was always aware, as he said with his dry wit, that 
he was a short-timer, but in his months here he didn't decide to come 
and be satisfied to simply serve out the term. He led, just as he 
expressed to us he knew people expected him to.

He cast an all-important vote, obviously, in the Senate's historic 
passage of comprehensive health care reform. But, frankly, much more 
important than a decisive vote, he provided a clear and compelling 
voice in the Democratic caucus for important features of the health 
care reform bill, especially the Community Living Assistance Services 
and Supports Act--or the CLASS Act, as it is known. That is an act Paul 
fought hard for, based on his commitment to providing much needed 
insurance support to Americans with disabilities, allowing them to live 
independently in their communities. It was a cause, I might add, that 
marked Ted Kennedy's life but also Paul's.

Paul didn't just work on health care reform. As a Member of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee, he asked tough and prescient questions 
of the Secretary of State, of the Defense Secretary, of the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mullen, about the military mission 
in Afghanistan--the kind of questions of which I know his mentor, Ted 
Kennedy, would have been proud.

He also cosponsored legislation to achieve greater parity in domestic 
partner benefits between the Federal workforce and the private sector 
employees. He worked with me to extend unemployment insurance benefits 
that will benefit as many as 40,000 Massachusetts residents, as well as 
get $80 million in Federal grants for community health care centers in 
Massachusetts.

In all this--and Paul spoke about it a few minutes ago--he was served 
by this amazing array of staff who are assembled behind him. He was 
served superbly by Senate staffers he inherited from Ted Kennedy and 
those he brought to the Senate. These outstanding men and women deserve 
our


thanks, as he has given them all our thanks in the Senate and well 
wishes for the next chapter in public service.

In one of his early speeches in the Senate, Paul Kirk spoke at length 
about his friend, Ted. He said Senator Kennedy was not one to sit idly 
by--he acted; he acted to help as many people as possible. Well, the 
same can now be said also of Senator Paul Kirk, though obviously for a 
much shorter period of time. He was not one to sit idly by. In the 
short time he has been here, he did act, and he has helped as many 
people as possible.

When he was selected to replace his friend in the Senate, I was 
reminded then--and I think I mentioned this on the floor--of Ted 
Kennedy's fondness for the poet Robert Frost and a line from one of his 
poems. Frost wrote:




 Men work together, I told him from the heart, whether they 


 work together or apart.


Teddy and Paul worked together for much of their lives. Even though 
they have been apart these past months, they have never stopped working 
together in the spirit and in the causes that Paul has embraced in his 
time here.

As I think about the comments he just made, in talking about what we 
need in the Senate, I couldn't help but look across the aisle and not 
see a Senator there. I regret that. Senator Inouye, seated to my right, 
has served here much longer than most of us--and Senator Leahy, who was 
just here, and Senator Dodd--but I think we were all part of the Senate 
a number of years ago when that never would have been the case.

So it is what it is. I hope they hear his comments. I hope all our 
colleagues will reach for this moment Senator Kirk has asked us to and, 
in doing so, will keep faith not just with his service but with the 
service of our dearly beloved friend, Ted Kennedy.

I wish to thank Paul Kirk for his service to the people of the 
country and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the way in which he 
kept faith with the spirit of the law which sent him here. I think he 
has served us all well, and we will miss him.

I yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.