---
---

# TRIBUTE TO LANCE CORPORAL BEN DESILETS
## `ec4eca15ae5aaf77cd96d073c81e051d`
`Mr. LaHOOD — 25 May 2007`

---


Mr. LaHOOD. Madam Speaker, I submit the following article for the 
Record.










Elmwood: City Mourns Loss of Marine




 Elmwood.--The city continued to grieve the loss of part of 


 its ''family'' Wednesday, mourning the death of Lance Cpl. 


 Ben Desilets, killed in action in Iraq.



 ''What people don't understand about Elmwood, it's a 


 family. When we lose one person, we all lose,'' said Elmwood 


 High School English teacher Cathy Meyers.



 Nearly every flag in Elmwood was flying at half-mast to 


 honor Desilets.



 The 2004 Elmwood High School graduate and another Marine 


 were killed Tuesday in the Anbar province of western Iraq, 


 where Desilets was deployed with 3rd Battalion, 10th Marine 


 Regiment. Officials with the 2nd Marine Expeditionary Force 


 in Camp Lejeune, NC., declined to comment on how he died 


 except to say it was during combat operations.



 A statement from the family stated Desilets, 21, had been 


 behind the wheel of a Humvee when he died in the early 


 morning hours. The other Marine was Cpl Julian M. Woodall, 


 21, of Tallahassee, Fla.



 ''He thought he was doing good,'' said his mother, Brenda 


 Desilets. ''I was proud of him. It made him grow up a lot.''



 Desilets had been in the Marines since September 2004. He 


 joined, in part, to support his 3-year-old daughter, Kyra.



 It was Desilets' second tour in Iraq.
