---
---

# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST
## `ec60926308cc34362eb9cd285ec5a6c8`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, my good friend, the majority leader, 
and I have been in a discussion over the last few days, going back to 
last week, over how to go forward on the Iraq debate. As I have 
indicated to him both privately and publicly, we on this side of the 
aisle were certainly looking forward to having an Iraq debate this week 
and are prepared to do so and are ready to go forward.

I think we all agree at this moment that there is no more important 
issue facing the Nation than the mission and the fate of the American 
service men and women in Iraq. This means, of course, that the men and 
women of this body have no higher duty than to express ourselves openly 
and honestly on this issue, to take a stand on where we stand. The only 
truly meaningful tool the Framers gave us to do this was our ability to 
fund or not fund a war. That is it. This is what Republicans are 
insisting upon--that the Members of this body express themselves on the 
question of whether to fund or not to fund the war in Iraq.

I had indicated to my good friend, the majority leader, that I would 
be propounding another unanimous-consent request at this point, and I 
will do that now.

I ask unanimous consent that, at a time determined by the majority 
leader, after consultation with the Republican leader, the Senate 
proceed en bloc to the following concurrent resolutions under the 
following agreement: S. Con. Res. 7, the Warner resolution, which is to 
be discharged from the Foreign Relations Committee; McCain-Lieberman-
Graham, regarding benchmarks; Gregg, relating to funding.

I further ask unanimous consent that there be a total of 10 hours of 
debate equally divided between the two leaders or their designees; 
provided further that no amendments be in order to any of these 
measures; further, that at the use or yielding back of time, the Senate 
proceed to three consecutive votes on the adoption of the concurrent 
resolutions in the following order, with no further action or 
intervening action or debate: McCain-Lieberman-Graham, on benchmarks; 
Gregg, on funding and supporting our troops; S. Con. Res. 7, the Warner 
resolution.

Finally, I ask unanimous consent that any resolution that does not 
receive 60 votes in the affirmative, the vote on adoption be vitiated 
and the concurrent resolution be returned to its previous status.