---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `ec6233dd4e67813e20365e8c2b3c2d25`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 18 December 2009`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. I appreciate the Senator from Missouri saying that he 
supports fully the Longhorns as the Big 12 champions. It is always good 
for the conference, of which the University of Missouri is a great 
member, that we win the national championship which I have all 
confidence that my beloved Longhorns will do.

Moving right along to the other important issues of today, I 
certainly am serious when I start talking about the issue that is 
before us today. I see the distinguished chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee sitting on the floor. The winner of the Congressional Medal 
of Honor, the only Member of our body who has that great distinction, 
and well deserved, Senator Dan Inouye is one of the great leaders who 
fought in World War II, was a hero, was given the Congressional Medal 
of Honor, our Nation's highest military honor that can be bestowed. He 
has led our committee in such a commendable way.

Senator Inouye has always assured that we have the support for our 
troops. I have served with Senator Inouye and Senator Cochran, our 
ranking member, and Senator Ted Stevens before him. I can tell you that 
all of these Senators have led our Defense Appropriations Committee. 
They have led it by assuring that our troops always have what they 
need, whether they are in the field of battle, which has been the case 
for part of our terms here, or whether they are not in the field of 
battle which has also been the case for much of our terms here. But it 
happens that our troops are on the field of battle today. That is why I 
have supported this appropriations bill, supported it as a member of 
the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and certainly am assured that 
we have the appropriations that give our troops who are in harm's way 
today the support they need.

I was in Iraq this year. I was in Afghanistan and Iraq last year 
visiting with those who are doing the work that keeps us free, that 
allows us to speak on this floor, that allow us to have Christmas 
holidays with our families. There is not a better experience in my 
entire time in public life than to get to visit with our troops on the 
field when they are in harm's way. I have been to Bosnia when we were 
in Bosnia, Kosovo, then Iraq, Afghanistan, Kuwait, where we have so 
many troops who are supporting our troops in Iraq, and also now 
supporting our troops with the equipment transfers into Afghanistan.

Those troops are not going to be with their families this Christmas. 
We will pass this bill. We will support our troops. We will follow in 
the great tradition of the Senate. This will be a very bipartisan vote.















 Health Care Reform


I also wish to mention that the major issue we must face before we 
finish in the Christmas holidays and then hopefully go on into next 
year is the health care reform bill that is before us. This is of great 
concern to me because I don't think we ought to rush the health care 
reform bill. Health care affects every family, every person in our 
country. It is a quality-of-life issue. America has had the great 
tradition and now expectation that we will have the best health care in 
the world, that we will have a doctor-patient relationship that 
determines what treatment is best and what is needed, and the patient 
then makes the final decision.


I very much fear this government takeover of health care is going to 
put government in between the doctor and the patient. This is a bill 
that, for the next 10 years, is going to transform our health care 
system with $/1/2/ trillion in new taxes, new mandates, which can only 
run up the cost of health care. For those who have coverage, it will be 
more expensive. For those who do not have coverage, I fear the 
alternatives are not going to be much better.

I think we have alternatives that can work; I just do not think this 
one is it. What would work? What will Republicans support? Republicans 
have a plan with three basic principles. No. 1, we want to bring the 
cost of health care down so there could be more affordable access for 
more people in our country. That means we have medical malpractice 
reform to curb frivolous lawsuits. It means we have the ability to have 
risk pools that are bigger so premiums are lower.

That means small business health plans. It means that we allow small 
businesses, without a bunch of bureaucratic nonsense, to come together, 
form bigger risk pools, and give lower cost options to employers to 
give to their employees. That is what every employer in this country 
wants. They do not want mandates. They do not want taxes. They do not 
want sticks. They want carrots; and that is, alternatives that are 
affordable for them.

Last, but not least, why not give every individual who buys their own 
health care a tax credit that helps them buy their own health care at 
an affordable cost? I am supporting a bill. It is the DeMint-Hutchison 
bill that would have a $5,000 tax credit available for people who have 
to buy their own health care coverage because they do not have employer 
options. That would take away the burden that is so heavy on families 
today.

So we have alternatives. We can do this right. We can do it right if 
we will take the time to do it right.

The bill that is going to be voted on, surely within the next 3 or 4 
days, is actually a bill we have not seen. We have a bill before us. We 
have been debating it for 3 weeks. But there is another bill that 
supposedly is the consensus bill that is being written behind closed 
doors that we have not even seen, and we are going to be asked to vote 
on it in a 2- or 3-day period. We do not know how long it is, so we do 
not know how much time we are going to have to read it. But we know we 
cannot mess around with health care in this country and pass something 
that may not be right, that may not cover all the bases, that may have 
hidden things in it we cannot prepare for.

We need the time to do it right. The Republicans are offering a hand 
to the other side and saying: Let's do this in a bipartisan way. I 
stated the Republican principles. We can do health care reform with 
those principles. Maybe the Democrats have certain principles they 
could lay out, where we could come together and have something that 
would not be a government health care takeover, that would not be $/1/
2/ trillion in Medicare cuts, that would not add $2.5 trillion to the 
debt of our country, which is about to sink in debt, and that would not 
have taxes and mandates and burdens on small business at a time when we 
want small business to hire people. We want small business to grow and 
help our economy thrive. But it cannot with more taxes and burdens.

We know we can do better.