---
---

# None
## `ec65c51c140ddb37123d8b26dbd896ea`
`Mrs. MILLER of Michigan — 2 October 2007`

---


Mrs. MILLER of Michigan. I thank the gentleman for yielding his time.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in very strong, strong support of this 
resolution.

You know, it has been said that no battle plan survives first contact 
with the enemy, and I believe that that is true. That's why our 
military must constantly plan for every eventuality in warfare, because 
failure to do so can cost lives.

The situation in Iraq is no different. We must prepare for every 
contingency. The day is coming when our brave men and women in uniform 
will leave Iraq, hopefully very, very soon. In fact, General Petraeus 
in his testimony last month spoke of the possibility that some of our 
troops will leave Iraq very soon, perhaps within weeks.

In order to facilitate a very safe and orderly withdrawal, it is 
important that our military leaders plan appropriately, and they must 
also consult with the Congress so that we can provide the needed 
support to ensure that our troops are safe and that our vital national 
interests are protected.

Prudent planning leads to success and provides the ability to react 
quickly to events on the ground. I believe that this resolution 
encourages such prudent planning. That's why I supported it when it 
came before the House Armed Services Committee, when it was debated 
then, and why I would urge the entire House to support it today. As was 
just mentioned by the chairman, it was a bipartisan vote and it passed 
55-2.

The issue of our troop presence in Iraq has caused great debate 
across our country, has polarized this Congress, and I believe that 
this resolution is a demonstration that a bipartisan way forward can be 
achieved, that it can happen. In fact, it must happen for our Nation to 
move forward.

I certainly want to express my appreciation to the sponsors of this 
bill. I want to express my appreciation and deep regard and respect for 
the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Mr. Skelton, as 
well as our ranking member, Duncan Hunter, great American patriots, all 
of them.

Let us hope that the day is coming soon when our troops will come 
home with honor, with honor, our brave men and women who so proudly and 
bravely have protected and exported liberty and freedom, democracy.