---
---

# CONTINUING EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `ec7f307171dd9924a13926915857b3bb`
`Mr. BAUCUS — 14 April 2010`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, shortly, the Senate will vote on the 
motion to waive the Budget Act for the consideration of my amendment 
and this important bill to extend unemployment


insurance benefits and other vital safety net programs.

We need to waive the Budget Act to allow this bill to move forward. 
We need to waive the Budget Act for the people who depend on 
unemployment insurance benefits.

We need to waive the Budget Act for people like the Montanans from 
whom I have heard.

We need to waive the Budget Act for Bonnie from Whitefish, MT. Bonnie 
lost her job in property management last year, and has been scraping by 
on unemployment benefits ever since. Bonnie has already sacrificed 
much, but she is still falling behind on her rent. She is unable to 
afford many necessities. Unemployment benefits help her get by from day 
to day.

We need to waive the Budget Act for people like Richard from Bozeman. 
Unemployment insurance has helped keep Richard afloat as he searches 
for a job. So far, Richard has applied for more than 150--think of it! 
150--jobs and has had only 2 temporary part-time positions to show for 
his effort. Though his financial situation is grim, it would be even 
more so without unemployment benefits.

We need to waive the Budget Act for people like the single father 
from Missoula. He has been out of work for weeks. He exhausted his 
State benefits, and is now receiving Federal extended benefits. He 
recently called the Montana Unemployment Insurance Claims Processing 
Center for additional help because he does not know how he can take 
care of his daughters.

Unemployment benefits help these Montanans to pay the bills. 
Unemployment benefits help these Montanans and millions of Americans 
who, through no fault of their own, have fallen victim to this Great 
Recession.

The average unemployment benefit is $335 a week. These days, $335 
only stretches so far.

Benefits have lapsed for 200,000 Americans. Since Authority expired a 
few days ago. If we do not pass this bill this week, another 200,000 
Americans could lose their benefits.

Responding to recessions is the very definition of an emergency. 
Responding to this kind of need is why the Budget Act built in motions 
to waive the budget in the first place. The budget needs to have 
flexibility to address truly unusual circumstances like today's 
economy.

Extending unemployment insurance benefits is a good investment to 
make now. It is an investment, in our economy.

Unemployment benefits help our unemployed neighbors. And in helping 
our neighbors, unemployment benefits also help to keep open the 
neighborhood grocery store, and the neighborhood gas station.

In helping our unemployed neighbors, unemployment benefits also help 
the economy. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says that 
extending additional unemployment benefits would have one of the 
largest effects on economic output and employment per dollar spent 
compared with any other action we could take. CBO says for each dollar 
spent, increasing aid to the unemployed could increase the gross 
domestic product by up to $1.90. That is 2 to 1. For every dollar spent 
on unemployment benefits, that could increase gross domestic product by 
$1.90. Households receiving unemployment benefits spend their benefits 
right away. That is very important. They don't save it; they spend it. 
That spurs demand for goods and services. That boosts production and 
leads businesses to hire more employees.

Some critics insist that emergency spending to address the recession 
is busting the budget. Some critics blame emergency spending and the 
Recovery Act for the huge budget deficits we face today.

We do need to address our Nation's fiscal circumstances, of course, 
we do. We are currently laboring to reach an agreed-upon package of 
offsets to pay for much of the long-term extension in unemployment 
insurance and other programs the Senate passed on March 10.

And on a larger level, we also need to balance the Nation's revenues 
and outlays. The President's fiscal commission will begin its work a 
week from Tuesday. We will need to think about fundamental tax reform 
as part of that exercise. And we will need to make sure that we get a 
dollar's worth of value for every taxpayer dollar the government 
spends.

But let me set the record straight. Emergency spending like this bill 
and the Recovery Act is responsible for only a small share of the 
deficit.

In fact, the cost of the Recovery Act is projected to be less than 10 
percent of the total deficit legacy over the next 10 years.

The chart behind me tells the story. The majority of the deficit we 
will face over the next 10 years stems from inherited policies. The tax 
cuts enacted under the previous administration, the wars in Afghanistan 
and Iraq, and the economic downturn itself explain nearly $11 trillion 
of our deficit over the next 10 years.

These policies were enacted before the current administration and 
before this Congress. Because these policies were not paid for, we are 
now facing huge deficits.

Unemployment benefits are not the cause of the deficit. We should not 
balance the budget on the backs of the unemployed.

Right now, it is essential we pass a temporary extension of 
unemployment benefits. It is essential we help Americans put food on 
the table. It is essential to pay the bills, while they continue to 
look for work.

So let us waive the Budget Act for Bonnie from Whitefish.

Let us extend unemployment insurance benefits for Richard from 
Bozeman, MT.

Let us extend this vital lifeline for the single father from Missoula 
and for his daughters who depend on him.

And in this great recession, let us waive the Budget Act to enact 
this temporary extension of unemployment insurance for the hundreds of 
thousands of Americans struggling, through no fault of their own, just 
to get by.

It is true that very soon we must significantly address the budget 
deficit. The real test will be the degree to which this country, the 
President, and the Congress buckle down and start to reduce the budget 
deficit during times of prosperity; that is, after we get out of this 
recession and when unemployment levels start to reach sensible, lower 
levels. That is when we face the true test of whether we reduce the 
budget deficit. It is our responsibility to do so. We should let 
unemployment benefits be extended. We should not have to pay for those 
now. But soon, when the unemployment rate falls, when the country comes 
out of the recession, then it is up to us to go the extra mile to make 
sure we, in a responsible way, start to address the huge deficits. When 
we do, it will keep interest rates low, and other countries will have 
more confidence in the United States. I daresay they have confidence 
now, but they will have even more confidence. I very much expect and 
hope that this body will exercise that effort responsibly to begin to 
tackle huge deficits.

Now is not the time. Soon we will face the time. It is not now.

I suggest the absence of a quorum and ask unanimous consent that time 
under the quorum be charged equally against both sides.