# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `ec80d8647cda225ce0dc7f0b68a35a4a`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I won't repeat the statements by 
the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Disabled American Veterans, and the 
American Legion and others who have spoken out against non-germane 
amendments on this bill whose purpose is to support our veterans, their 
families, our troops, and their families.

I know the gentleman from Texas. He is a friend of mine. I think he 
is genuine in his efforts to accomplish what he would like to 
accomplish, but this is not the bill. This is not the time. This is not 
the place in which to do it.

Furthermore, despite the gentleman's good intentions, there is a 
serious flaw in this amendment for which I


would strongly oppose it, and that is, it would take $400 million out 
of the President's budget request for the Base Realignment and Closing 
process. That would be a terrible mistake because its result would be 
that thousands of America's veterans returning home from their second 
and even third tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan would come home to 
find that the barracks that were supposed to have been built with that 
BRAC money were not built.

They would come home, and then those troops, as they began to train 
to go back to Iraq and Afghanistan, would find the training ranges that 
they needed that were to have been built with this $400 million in BRAC 
funding were not built; the very training ranges that are a vital part 
of not only allowing those troops to carry out their mission in our 
Nation's behalf, but help them come home safely to their families.

So, for those reasons, as well as a number of others, Mr. Chairman, I 
would like to make a point of order against the amendment because it 
provides an appropriation for an unauthorized program and, therefore, 
violates clause 2 of rule XXI. Clause 2 of rule XXI states, in 
pertinent part, ''An appropriation may not be in order as an amendment 
for an expenditure not previously authorized by law.''

Mr. Chairman, the amendment proposes to appropriate funds that are 
not authorized. The amendment therefore violates clause 2 of rule XXI.

I ask for a ruling from the Chair.