---
---

# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `ec8ba86d69e947e71ce7327fc324f3d5`
`Mr. DORGAN — 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, the bill on the floor of the Senate deals 
with energy. While there are many important things we discuss in 
Congress these days, energy ranks right near the top, in my judgment. I 
have indicated previously that most of us take energy for granted. We 
get up in the morning and turn on the hot water, and that


comes from energy. We flick a light switch, and that comes from energy. 
We get in the car and turn the ignition key, and that comes from 
energy.

I told a story a while back about John Glenn and energy. I was on a 
trip with John Glenn, the former astronaut and former Senator. I was a 
young boy when John Glenn orbited the Earth in Friendship 7.

Late one evening on what was the old Air Force One, a group of us 
were flying to Asia, and John Glenn was with the group. We were meeting 
with heads of state in several governments, Vietnam and China and so 
on. We were flying over the Pacific late at night in this little cabin 
in this Air Force 707. I leaned forward and began to ask John Glenn 
about his first space flight. I pumped him with a lot of questions. One 
of the questions I asked him about was whether he actually saw Perth, 
Australia. The history that has been written about this, and I recalled 
as a kid, was when John Glenn, up there alone in this tiny little 
capsule orbiting the Earth in Friendship 7, was orbiting the Earth and 
went to the dark side of the Earth, the town of Perth, Australia, 
decided they would all turn on their lights. All the lights in Perth, 
Australia were to be turned on to greet this astronaut flying alone, 
orbiting the Earth. I asked him if he saw the lights of Perth, 
Australia, and he said he did. On the dark side of the Earth in this 
little capsule orbiting the Earth all alone, John Glenn looked down and 
the sign of human existence on Earth was the product of energy, the 
product of lights, radiating that beam to that astronaut, saying a 
hello--greetings.

It comes from energy. It is what we do to produce energy and use 
energy to make our lives better. They are better in many ways.

One part of this energy issue we are debating in the Energy bill 
deals with oil. Oil is an interesting debate because on this little 
planet of ours that circles the Sun, there are about 6.4 billion of us. 
We have a lot of neighbors who are in tougher shape. About half of this 
planet's population lives on less than $2 a day. Half of them have 
never made a telephone call. On this planet there is a little spot 
called the United States of America and we are blessed through divine 
providence to be here, to live here. But it is interesting that while 
we have created a standard of living that expands the middle class and 
creates an increased standard of living, we do not have the quantity of 
oil that exists elsewhere on Earth. We use 25 percent of the oil that 
is needed every single day; 25 percent of all the oil used on this 
Earth is used in this country. Yet most of the oil is produced 
elsewhere--Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, Venezuela, and other countries. 
Over 60 percent of the oil we use comes from outside of our country. 
God forbid something should happen that would interrupt that, because 
if it did, this country would be flat on its back with respect to its 
economy. It would dramatically impact the way we live.

Over 60 percent of our oil comes from other countries, much of it 
from troubled parts of the world, particularly in the Middle East. Many 
of us believe we need to be less dependent on foreign sources of oil. 
We are dangerously dependent on foreign sources of oil and we need to 
become less dependent. How do we do that?

One point is this. Seventy percent of all the oil we use in America 
is used in vehicles, where we run it through the carburetors and fuel 
injectors in the form of gasoline. Seventy percent of the oil is used 
through vehicles.

So we have to find a way to make vehicles more efficient. That brings 
me to the debate about what are called the CAFE standards or the 
standards that require greater efficiency for automobiles.

Now I serve on the Commerce Committee. I and Senator Feinstein, 
Senator Inouye and others included from the Commerce Committee a 
provision that requires vehicles to be more efficient.

I know the auto industry is very aggressive in trying to see if they 
can jettison that provision in the underlying Energy bill that comes 
from the Commerce Committee. They do not want these increased 
efficiency standards. They believe they are pernicious, they will 
injure the auto industry. I think that is untrue.

Now, they make the point, and in my judgment they deliberately 
misrepresent the point, in full page advertisements in my State and 
others and direct mail pieces to constituents, they make the point that 
what we are trying to do is to say: You must make automobiles or 
vehicles more efficient, and you do it on a fleet average, as CAFE has 
always been done.

If you are making too many pickup trucks and not enough small cars, 
you have to make more small cars and fewer pickup trucks, so, 
therefore, you have an increase in fuel efficiency and, therefore, this 
approach threatens to take your pickup truck away.

Well, that is not true. It is not accurate. But that is what is being 
alleged. This is a different approach. This standard says that for each 
class of vehicle, the class itself must be made more efficient. I come 
from North Dakota. We in North Dakota have, on rare occasions, I 
emphasize only rare occasions, some harsh weather. When it is 30 below 
zero and a 40-mile-an-hour wind, you do not want to drive in a Chevette 
out to check the calves during calving season in March, you want a 
vehicle, a four-wheel drive vehicle that has some weight, that has some 
power. That is what we use. I am not interested in full efficiency 
standards that discriminate against larger vehicles, but I also believe 
this: All of the vehicles, including pickup trucks, including larger 
vehicles, should be made more efficient.

For 25 years, there has not been one change in the standard. For 25 
years in this Congress, we said: No, no. The auto industry doesn't want 
an increase in the efficiency requirement, therefore, we will not do 
it.

I say ''we.'' I was part of that. But at some point, you have got to 
say to the industry: Look, they are making more efficient vehicles 
elsewhere. They ought to make them here. I mean, I have described the 
position of the industry in opposition to this as ''yesterday 
forever.'' I guess it is wonderful if you have romantic feelings about 
yesterday and you want it to continue forever with respect to your 
vehicles and the lack of a requirement to make them more efficient.

But it does not help this country, it retards this country's ability 
to become less dependent on foreign sources of oil. That is what this 
vote is about: Do you believe we ought to become less dependent on 
foreign sources of oil? If so, then you better belly up and you better 
begin to support this kind of thing, or do you believe that we are not 
dangerously dependent? If it is fine for us to have 60 percent, heading 
toward 65 and 69 percent, we are told of our oil coming from off our 
shores, if you think that is fine, if you are perfectly content going 
to sleep at night saying it doesn't matter how much we get from 
overseas, it doesn't matter how troubled those areas are, let's hang 
our future, our economic future, on our ability to keep getting oil 
from troubled parts of the world, if that is how you feel, then, in my 
judgment, it ignores the reality.

If you are one of those, as I am, who believes that we are too 
dangerously dependent on foreign sources of energy, then it seems to me 
you have to come to the floor and be supportive of CAFE standards, or 
at least greater efficiency standards for vehicles

We have established a system in the underlying bill that establishes 
eight classes of vehicles. And you have to make them more efficient by 
class. Should not those who drive pickup trucks expect to have a more 
efficient pickup truck as well; better mileage on those vehicles as 
well? The answer is, yes, in my judgment.

Now, my hope would be that someday, in some way, we will be able to 
find a way not to be dependent on oil itself. But I cannot see that in 
the near term. We are going to continue to use fossil fuels. I have 
described too many times for my colleagues that my first vehicle I 
bought for $25 as a young kid, it was a 1924 Model T Ford that had been 
in a grainery for some decades. I bought it for $25 and restored it 
lovingly as a young boy when I was in high school.

So I ended up with a Model T that was decades and decades old. But I 
sold it later because you cannot, as a young boy, you cannot 
effectively date in a Model T; nobody wants to ride with you. But the 
point of the Model T is that in 1924 they made a car, and it is 
interesting. You put gasoline in that car exactly the same way you put 
gasoline in a 2007 or 2008 vehicle. Exactly


the same way. You go to the gas pump, stick a nozzle in the tank, and 
start pumping gas. Nothing has changed. Everything else about the car 
has changed. Computer technologies. More computer technology in a new 
car than existed on the lunar lander that put Neil Armstrong on the 
Moon.


Better cup holders, keyless entry, iPod holders, heated seats, you 
name it. But let me ask you, do you think there has been an increase in 
the efficiency standards for those vehicles? The answer is no. The 
answer is no.

I ask you to take this test. Go back and look 10 years ago at any 
model of car and then look at today's identical model and see how much 
has changed with respect to miles per gallon that are estimated for 
that vehicle. What you will discover is almost no change.

Those of us who support the standards in the Commerce Committee have 
brought a bill to the floor that is a good bill. Now there are some in 
this Chamber who do not support it, and the auto industry itself is 
furiously working to get the votes to defeat our increased efficiency 
standard.

The problem is, there is no amendment coming to the floor of the 
Senate that I can see. I mean, it seems to me, we have an underlying 
provision that I support, it is in the bill. Having had the bill now on 
the floor for some while, it is time to say: If you want to try to 
amend it, let's have an amendment on the floor, let's vote, let's have 
a thorough discussion and debate and let's have a vote.

I am not someone who suggests the underlying amendment is the only 
amendment that has merit or has worth; there are, perhaps, other ideas. 
But I was in a meeting last evening and have been at some meetings 
today. It appears to me that the effort is simply, by the industry, to 
say: Let's not do this. Well, you know, we have been through that time 
and time and time again. When they say to the Congress: Let's not do 
this, the Congress salutes and says: Let's not do this.

But we have come to a different intersection, it seems to me, with 
respect to the future of this country and the energy security of this 
country. That intersection requires us now to do what we must do to 
make us less dependent on foreign sources of oil. If we do not find a 
way to be independent, or at least less dependent on foreign sources of 
oil that come from troubled parts of the world, we are in deep trouble.

Someday, I would hope, perhaps we can develop hydrogen fuel cars that 
are commercially available. I hope that our children and their 
grandchildren will be able to get in a vehicle that is a hydrogen fuel 
cell vehicle.

I authored the legislation 2 years ago that established the title on 
hydrogen fuel cells. You know, interestingly enough, hydrogen fuel cell 
vehicles will have twice the efficiency of power to the wheel of the 
vehicle and put water vapor out the tailpipe. Wouldn't that be a 
wonderful thing? The fact that hydrogen is ubiquitous, is everywhere--I 
had this wonderful experiment going on in North Dakota that I 
established in the Appropriations Committee of using a wind tower, a 
more efficient wind turbine, take energy from the wind, use the 
electricity that you take through the turbine, you take energy from the 
wind in the form of electricity, use the electricity in the process of 
something called electrolysis, and separate hydrogen from water with a 
process of electrolysis.

So you actually take an intermittent power source of wind and produce 
hydrogen, store the hydrogen for vehicle use. I believe we can get to 
the point of hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, which will make us much less 
dependent on foreign sources of oil. We will not need foreign sources 
of oil if we do what we can with this fleet. But that will not happen 
in 3, 5, or even 10 years from now. There has to be interim steps in 
which we take action to reduce our dependence, even as we continue to 
use the internal combustion engine, as we continue to use nearly 70 
percent of all our oil through our vehicles, even as we import over 60 
percent of the oil from overseas, we must take some interim steps to 
begin to address that.

That is why this issue is so important, the efficiency of our 
vehicles. Finally, let me say this. I want our auto industry to 
succeed. I want this industry to succeed. I do not want to be a part of 
something that says to them, that, you know, you have been asleep at 
the switch, and so, therefore, we don't care about you. That is not my 
point.

My point is, this industry will succeed, in my judgment, if they are 
under the gun and under some pressure to produce more efficient 
vehicles. Other companies in other countries are doing it and so too 
should ours. I wish to be helpful to our industry.

One final point. There is a discussion about a couple provisions in 
the underlying Commerce Committee bill. One is the second 10 years, the 
4 percent efficiency a year, which was part of my offering, and the 
second was Senator Cantwell's offering of standards for the production 
of flex-fuel vehicles. We are building a 36-billion-gallon biofuels 
requirement in this bill. We are going to produce 36 billion gallons of 
ethanol, biofuels.


Where are you going to use all of that if you do not have the flex-
fuel vehicles on the road so you can move that through those 
carburetors or fuel injectors. You have got to be able to have a flex-
fuel standard, so that when the automobile industry is producing cars, 
they are producing flex-fuel vehicles so they can run either the E85 or 
the regular gasoline. But if you are producing 36 billion gallons of 
biofuel and do not have flex-fuel vehicles on the road to be able to 
take those fuels and be able to run E85 through a vehicle, we are going 
to see this ethanol market collapse.

That is why the flex-fuel provisions in the underlying bill from 
Commerce are so important. I wish to make the point that my hope is 
this afternoon, those who wish to try to amend the underlying provision 
in the Commerce Committee bill would come to the floor, let's have a 
debate about it. I believe the Commerce Committee provision is a 
thoughtful provision, that finally aggressively represents change and 
reform on automobile efficiency. I think the standards are achievable.

I think they will be good for the industry. They certainly will be 
good for the driving public in this country, and, most especially, they 
will move us in the direction of being less dependent and move us in 
the direction toward being independent of foreign sources of oil, which 
I think is important to this country's economic well-being.

I yield the floor.