---
---

# TRIBUTE TO LT. COL. D.B. RICHWINE, JR.
## `ec8dacaff71a3b72229e49da2b33a6da`
`Mr. CALVERT â€” 5 January 2007`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, we open the 110th Congress, I rise today 
to honor a fine American and a devoted public servant and to 
congratulate him on a significant achievement. Donald Bowen Richwine, 
Jr. serves our Nation as a Marine Corps Officer and served the Congress 
as a Congressional Fellow in my office from December 2003 to December 
2004. Recently he served our Nation's ongoing efforts in the Global War 
on Terror by his exemplary conduct in Operation IRAQI FREEDOM from 
October 2005 to April 2006. As a result of his devotion to duty and 
excellence as an officer, Bowen was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant 
Colonel on January 3, 2007 in a ceremony at the National Museum of the 
Marine Corps. Additionally, Bowen was awarded the Bronze Star Medal for 
his meritorious achievement in connection


with combat operations against the enemy as Department of Border 
Enforcement Coordinator. The formal citation for this Medal follows 
below. I heartily congratulate Lt. Col. Richwine on his promotion and 
the recognition of his meritorious achievement. I share the pride felt 
by his wife Angela and their children, Owen and Charlie, at this time 
in Bowen's career.

For meritorious achievement in connection with combat operations 
against the enemy as Department of Border Enforcement Coordinator, II 
Marine Expeditionary Force (Forward) and I Marine Expeditionary Force 
(Forward), in support of Operation IRAQI FREEDOM 04-06 and 05-07 from 
October 2005 to April 2006. During this period, Major Richwine was 
directly responsible for the development of Iraqi border forces along 
over 1000 kilometers of Iraq's borders. Coordinating movements of 
border forces, border fort construction, and Border Transition Teams, 
his determined efforts led to the strategically significant restoration 
of Iraq's borders on 30 November 2005. Identifying a significant 
problem at the Ports of Entry, Major Richwine developed an innovative 
plan involving the creation of a multi-agency task force formed to 
train, advise, and mentor the forces at the Ports of Entry. Ultimately 
this solution was briefed to the Commanding General Multi National 
Forces-Iraq who decided to duplicate this idea at other locations 
throughout Iraq. Finally, displaying an unusually prescient grasp on 
the mechanisms needed to grow new units, Major Richwine on his own 
initiative and despite the absence of Military Occupational Specialty 
Schools for the border police, sought out school seats at Ministry of 
Defense schools across Iraq. His vigorous efforts have led to the very 
first school trained Iraqi Border Police, giving them critical life 
support capabilities which will permit them to develop logistics 
systems that will support their force long after the Coalition Forces 
depart Iraq. Major Richwine's total effectiveness, forceful leadership, 
and loyal devotion to duty reflected great credit upon him and upheld 
the highest traditions of the Marine Corps and the United States Naval 
Service.
