# FRESHMEN DEMOCRATS PROMOTE ACCOUNTABILITY AND OVERSIGHT
## `ec958dc8bed7e06ac2090de90f30e051`
`Mr. HODES — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for being here with 
us tonight. I am delighted to be a new Member in the House of 
Representatives, the people's House, sent by my constituents to help 
restore the fabric of our democracy, which, during the past 6 years, 
has really been torn and undermined by a rubber-stamp Congress which 
refused to ask questions of an administration conducting its policies 
largely in secret, taking the American people down a path with 
counterfeit leadership, a leadership that used fear and intimidation to 
lead, instead of real leadership which helps people face reality, come 
together and seek common ground and solutions.

And for many people, when they think of the United States House of 
Representatives, they think of Congress as a body which raises revenue 
and figures out how to spend it. It sets taxes and sets a budget. And 
that is how a lot of folks think about Congress, and sure we spend a 
lot of our time doing that.



But there is another very important function of the United States 
Congress in our constitutional scheme, and it is completely independent 
of what party is in the White House, what party is in the majority in 
Congress, what party is in the majority in the Senate. It is the way 
that, in the wisdom of the Founding Fathers, they set up this great 
government of ours so that there would be checks and balances, there 
would be controls. And the accountability and oversight function of 
Congress is what we have restored with this Democratic majority.

There have been great leaders who have recognized that important 
feature and that important job of Congress. And I have got a chart 
here, a little board and a quote that is really important and talks a 
lot about what it means for Congress to exercise its function of 
accountability.

President Woodrow Wilson said, ''It is the proper duty of a 
representative body to look diligently into every affair of government 
and to talk much about what it sees. It is meant to be the eyes and the 
voice and to embody the wisdom and will of its constituents. The 
informing function of Congress should be preferred, even to its 
legislative function.''

So here is President Wilson, some years ago, recognizing that the 
oversight and accountability function of Congress is perhaps even more 
important than the legislative function.

So for this Congress, while the last Congress might have been called 
''the rubber-stamp Congress'' or the last Congress might have been 
called ''the Katrina Congress'' because they presided over such a 
disaster for us, I bet that this Congress, under Democratic majority, 
is going to be ''the accountability Congress.''

Now, one thing that is interesting, I want to take us back for a 
moment as we sort of set the tone for tonight to talk about something 
that happened in ancient times. It has been said that the ancient 
Romans had a tradition. Whenever one of their engineers constructed an 
arch, at the capstone was hoisted into place, the engineer assumed 
accountability for his work in the most profound way possible, he stood 
under the arch. In the President's war on terror, the capstone he chose 
is Iraq, but it is everyday Americans, and especially our veterans, 
returning soldiers who are wounded and our veterans who stood under the 
arch as it crumbled.

Over the past few weeks, we have sustained blow after blow as the 
President's plan fell apart. But it is not the President who will pay 
the billions necessary to stabilize Iraq, it is not the President who 
slept in molding infested rooms at Walter Reed Hospital, it is not the 
President who lost his job because of a political decision. But maybe 
it ought to be.

The confluence of events of recent weeks, the Valerie Plame scandal, 
the Walter Reed scandal, the politically motivated firing of U.S. 
Attorneys, is the result of an administration that went too far for too 
long without any meaningful oversight, without any meaningful 
accountability, without a Congress to hold it accountable. It has been 
said that absolute power corrupts absolutely. And for years, absolute 
power is what our Republican colleagues, who were in control until 
November of 2006, gave to this administration.

Tonight, I come to the floor with my colleagues to talk about 
restoring accountability to government because the arch has fallen on 
us, and we are going to repair it.