---
---

# TRIBUTE TO THE FILM SCHOOL OF SAN ANTONIO
## `ecaac657b44c1391b0b0f57ca581e0d5`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ — 17 April 2007`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise today to celebrate and recognize 
the accomplishments of The Film School of San Antonio, a magnet program 
on the campus of Harlandale High School in the Harlandale Independent 
School District of San Antonio, Texas.

Utilizing a rigorous, sequential and customized curriculum, the Film 
School of San Antonio provides first hand experience in the 
collaborative arts of filmmaking, screenwriting, animation and drama. 
Additionally, the film school prepares students for job opportunities, 
scholarships and college admissions. With a strong foundation in media, 
students also compete in national contests and film festivals.

The Film School of San Antonio and its students have earned a wealth 
of awards and accolades. In 2005, the program received an Emmy 
nomination for their film ''La Corrida,'' a documentary on the plight 
of illegal immigrants in ''No Mans Land'' just north of the U.S./
Mexican border. In 2006, the program's student produced film Mocha, 
made history when it won a non-student category Emmy Award. This is the 
first high school to be able to claim this achievement in Texas. Most 
recently, the school was invited by the Sundance Institute to attend 
the internationally recognized Sundance Film Festival to meet and 
network with Producers and Directors.

The famous actor and filmmaker Orson Welles once said that, ''A film 
is never really good unless the camera is an eye in the head of a 
poet.'' The students at the Film School of San Antonio are poets that 
through film find their expression. Through their engagement with the 
program and the assistance of their dedicated teachers, the students at 
the Film School of San Antonio are able to give their poetic visions a 
reality.

I extend my most sincere congratulations to the program director 
George F. Ozuna; the school instructors: Pete Barcenez, Dagoberto 
Patlan, Daniel Garcia and Sharon Shuler; the school's students: Briana 
Baiz, Mercedes Casarez, Krysten Casias, Samuel Garcia, Michael Levine, 
Felix Perez and Raul Servin; and their families. Their work is 
inspiring. I am proud of their success and hope that film continues to 
bring them much personal satisfaction.


















Van Junior Senior High School,



















 Van, WV, February 22, 2007.


 Congressman Nick Rahall,


 Rayburn House Office Building,


 Washington, DC.



 Congressman Rahall: We are the Senior Civics class of Van 


 Jr/Sr High School in Boone County, West Virginia. We watched 


 President Bush's State of the Union Address and the 


 Democratic Response. We are writing to you to discuss our 


 concerns within the government today. Our Civics class 


 consists of all male students, who (if the draft is enabled) 


 would be sent to fight for a cause we don't understand.



 Our primary concern is the war in Iraq. We are in favor of 


 fighting terrorism, but America went into Iraq under false 


 pretenses. We now know that Iraq had nothing to do with the 


 attack on 9/11. We believe that the reason we went to Iraq is 


 to gain a stronghold on the oil fields. We are trading blood 


 for oil. We have strong feeling that America should have 


 never invaded Iraq because our presence there is breeding 


 more terrorism around the world. We are giving terrorists a 


 common foe to retaliate against. We are incubating more 


 hatred from other terrorists and now giving them a reason to 


 unite hence the statement, ''The enemy of my enemy is my 


 ally''.



 We highly oppose the sending of 2l,000 more soldiers to 


 Iraq. Instead, we must start bringing soldiers home, because 


 who is going to protect us while our soldiers are fighting 


 overseas? Some soldiers are serving their third tour of duty 


 against their will, compliments of the Backdoor Draft. 


 America should have never gone further than Afghanistan. We 


 have forgotten about Osama Bin Laden in our rush to topple 


 Saddam Hussein.



 All we are doing right now is debating while our soldiers 


 are loosing their lives. Let us quit talking and do 


 something! Young lives and futures depend on your actions. 


 Please take into consideration the lives you can save instead 


 of destroy.



 Another of our concerns is the way our economy is being 


 affected by the war. Just think of what 2.9 trillion dollars 


 could have done for this nation. Then look at this figure, 


 oil companies are making an annual profit of 39.5 billion 


 dollars while many people in this nation are suffering in 


 poverty. They are suffering because in today's society one 


 cannot support a family on the minimum wage of $5.15 an hour. 


 Only three percent of Americans today are financially well 


 off. The outsourcing of good paying American jobs is causing 


 our unemployment rate to rise. If this trend continues, 


 poverty will become more common and our society will become 


 even more unstable.





 The money spent on the Iraq war has put a tremendous amount 


 of pressure on the recipients of Social Security. Many older 


 Americans have to choose between medication and food because 


 they cannot afford both. Add to this the fact that thousands 


 of Americans still do not have any health insurance.



 America has become greedy and corrupt. When did America 


 stop caring about the common people? The Civics Class of Van 


 High School wants the voice of the common man to be heard in 


 Washington, D.C. We are the future of this great nation and 


 our representatives must consider this while debating the 


 course our country will take, not only in Iraq, but also at 


 home.



 Sincerely,




 The Senior Civics Class of Van Jr.-Sr. High School: 





 Justin Gent, Christopher Boulet, Robert Burnett, Joshua 





 Cook, Jason Hoosier, Matthew Kuhn, Terry Legg, Gregory 





 O'Dell, Jonathan Simms, Robert Valle, Scott White, 





 Kasey Whitman.
