---
---

# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `ecb58b503cebb0f1c1368600088adcc1`
`Mr. SANDERS — 14 February 2008`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, I rise in strong support of the Indian 
health care package being put together by Senator Dorgan. As Senator 
Reid indicated, these are a group of people who have been the most 
neglected in our country, and it is imperative we move rapidly to 
address longstanding concerns.

I have an amendment pending to provide $800 million in emergency 
funding for the LIHEAP program. The reason I am offering this amendment 
is simple and obvious. At a time when home heating fuel is 
skyrocketing, millions of senior citizens on fixed incomes, millions of 
low-income families with kids, and persons with disabilities are 
desperately trying to keep their homes


warm this winter. Without this additional source of immediate funding, 
there is a major risk that old people and lower income people all over 
America will go cold. In the richest country on the face of the Earth, 
we have a moral responsibility not to allow that.

Over the past week, as everybody knows, in many parts of America, 
temperatures have been going well below zero. In my State of Vermont, 
in Lincoln, VT, was 21 below zero. In Nome, AK, the high temperature 
was 15 below; Grand Forks, ND, 12 below zero; Eureka, SD, 3 below zero. 
On and on all across the country, temperatures are getting cold. The 
cost of home heating oil is outrageously high. LIHEAP funding is being 
depleted. People are unable to afford to keep their homes warm. That, 
in a nutshell, is what we are discussing.

The amendment I am offering has been endorsed by many organizations 
and many Members of the Senate. Some of the endorsees include the 
National Governors Association, the AARP, the National Conference of 
State Legislatures, many others. Let me briefly excerpt from a letter I 
received from the National Governors Association in support of the 
amendment:




 Additional funding distributed equitably under this 


 amendment will support critically needed heating and cooling 


 assistance to millions of our most vulnerable, including the 


 elderly, disabled, and families that often have to choose 


 between paying their heating or cooling bills and food, 


 medicine and other essential needs.


That is from the National Governors Association. The AARP also has 
come out in support of the amendment, indicating that some of the most 
significant victims of what happens when it becomes cold are senior 
citizens who suffer from hypothermia. They are very much in support of 
this amendment, and we thank them for their support.

This bipartisan amendment is also cosponsored by many of my 
colleagues, including: Senators Clinton, Obama, Snowe, Collins, Leahy, 
Sununu, Kennedy, Gordon Smith, Coleman, Kerry, Stabenow, Schumer, 
Lautenberg, Lincoln, Klobuchar, Murray, Cantwell, Menendez, Durbin, and 
Whitehouse. I thank them.

Yesterday, Senator Gregg offered a second-degree amendment to my 
amendment. In my view, his amendment is a poison pill which, if passed, 
would either kill or slow down all our efforts to increase emergency 
funding for LIHEAP. The Gregg amendment would pay for the $800 million 
increase in LIHEAP by cutting overall discretionary nondefense spending 
by about .2 of 1 percent. I am opposed to the Gregg amendment for a 
number of reasons. First, it is an extremely irresponsible way to do 
budgeting. There are some agencies that need to be cut a lot more than 
.2 of 1 percent. And there are, in fact, programs and agencies that 
need significantly more funding. An across-the-board cut, regardless of 
the needs of a program or agency, is irresponsible.

Secondly, Senator Gregg excludes from his cuts the department that 
receives over half the discretionary funding, and that is the 
Department of Defense. If Senator Gregg thinks all of the $500 billion-
plus that goes to the Department of Defense is well spent and well 
accounted for, he is mistaken. You cannot exclude the largest recipient 
of discretionary funding from examination.

In the real world, what would be the impact of the Gregg amendment if 
it were to pass? I know that .2 of 1 percent may not seem like a lot of 
money at first blush, but let's take a look at what this cut would 
mean. It would mean a $54 million cut for veterans medical care, and 
overall veterans funding would be reduced by $86 million. I don't think 
any Member of the Senate supports that. While we are trying to fight 
and come up with an understanding of various cancers, Alzheimer's 
disease, Parkinson's disease, the National Institutes of Health would 
be cut by over $58 million by the Gregg amendment. The Gregg amendment 
would cut special education by $22 million. People are paying higher 
and higher property taxes because this Congress, for many years, has 
not kept the promise it made by adequately funding special education. 
The Gregg amendment would cut funding for special ed by some $22 
million. Head Start would be cut by $14 million. We are grossly 
underfunding Head Start right now. We have a major early education 
crisis from one end of America to the other. This would only make that 
problem worse. The Gregg amendment would cut community health centers 
by over $4 million at a time when 47 million Americans have no health 
insurance, creating a process by which even fewer Americans can access 
primary health care. Homeland security would receive a cut of $70 
million. Education would be cut by over $100 million.

I certainly share Senator Gregg's concerns about the national debt. I 
look forward to working with him and other members of the Budget 
Committee to discuss how we should reduce our $9.2 trillion national 
debt, which increased by $3 trillion under President Bush. It is a real 
issue, one we have to get a handle on. But maybe we will discuss in the 
Budget Committee the absurdity of trying to eliminate the estate tax 
which would add $1 trillion to our national debt over 20 years by 
giving tax breaks exclusively to the wealthiest .3 of 1 percent.

We are debating whether we should help senior citizens who are going 
cold this winter. But there are many, including the President, who say: 
No problem, a trillion dollars in tax relief for the wealthiest .3 of 1 
percent.

We should be discussing why we are providing other tax breaks to some 
of the wealthiest people in this country. Perhaps we can discuss the 
appropriateness of spending $12 billion a month on the war in Iraq, 
with most of that sum being budgeted as emergency spending. It is not 
an emergency. We know what is going on. Yet we are not prepared to pay 
for the war. We are leaving that cost to our kids and grandchildren. 
That is emergency spending. We can pass that $12 billion a month. Yet 
there are those who balk at spending $800 million on a real emergency, 
and that is keeping senior citizens and families all over America warm 
this winter.

Providing a mere $800 million for LIHEAP would primarily benefit 
senior citizens, families with children, and people with disabilities 
earning between $10 and $15,000 a year. At a time when gasoline and 
home heating oil prices in the State of Vermont and throughout the 
country are well above $3 a gallon, we should not be forcing seniors 
and others to make a choice about whether they are going to buy the 
medicine or food they need--hunger is increasing--or keep warm this 
winter.

There is no great secret that the American people are increasingly 
disenchanted with what is going on in Washington, whether in the White 
House or in Congress. They wonder what planet we are living on. They 
are struggling, millions, every single day to keep their heads above 
water to pay for the food they need, to fill up their gas tanks in 
order to go to work, to keep warm in the winter. They wonder why we are 
not responding to their needs. We have people here talking about more 
tax breaks for billionaires, when workers are losing their jobs.

Passing the Sanders amendment certainly is not going to solve all 
those problems.

But maybe at a time when people are going cold and others know that 
people are going cold, maybe--maybe--it will make the American people 
understand some of us are aware of the reality of American life as it 
exists in cities and towns all across this country, that maybe we know 
what is going on, and we are prepared to respond in a proper way.

Madam President, having said that, I ask unanimous consent that the 
Senate now resume the Gregg amendment No. 4022 and that it be modified 
to be a first-degree amendments and that the Senate then debate 
concurrently amendments No. 3900 and No. 4022, as modified, with 40 
minutes of debate prior to a vote in relation to each amendment, with 
the time equally divided and controlled between Senator Sanders and 
Senator Gregg or their designees; that each amendment be subject to a 
60-affirmative vote threshold, and that if the amendment does not 
achieve that threshold, it be withdrawn; that if either amendment 
achieves 60 affirmative votes, then the amendment be agreed to and the 
motion to reconsider be laid upon the table; that the vote in relation 
to the Gregg amendment No. 4022, as modified, occur first in the 
sequence and


that there be 2 minutes of debate, equally divided, prior to each vote; 
provided further that no intervening amendment be in order to either 
amendment; that upon the use or yielding back of time, the Senate 
proceed to vote in relation to the Gregg amendment, to be followed by a 
vote in relation to the Sanders amendment.