# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ecb88dc4430fb80eee0cf3cfa3cda041`
`Mr. FERGUSON â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with mixed emotions. I am 
proud of our troops and the sacrifices they have made in Iraq, their 
dedication, their perseverance and the love and support of their 
families here at home. I am disappointed that the strategies employed 
thus far have not been more successful and that our progress in Iraq 
has been too slow, and I am saddened that those who have drafted this 
resolution are offering no alternatives of their own for our mission in 
Iraq. Indeed, they are prohibiting consideration in this Chamber of any 
alternative.

Therefore, I will vote against this resolution.

I believe most Americans share the same goal for Iraq, a stable 
government that can serve its people, a strong security force that can 
protect its people, and a growing economy that can encourage prosperity 
for its people.

We want the Iraqis to succeed, and we want our troops to come home. 
There is no question and no denying that mistakes in the planning and 
execution of the war have led us to where we are today. Hindsight is 
20/20, and we can all offer suggestions for how things should have been 
done differently, done better, done more effectively during the past 4 
years.

But that is not what is going on in this Chamber here today. Members 
are being cynically asked to vote on a resolution that does not address 
victory or success. It does not offer a pathway toward the peace and 
the prosperity that are vital to the region. It simply plays politics 
with the war and, in so doing, does our troops and their families here 
at home a terrible disservice.

While no one in this Chamber or any general in uniform can guarantee 
the success of this new initiative in Iraq, we can safely say that not 
pursuing it and continuing the status quo will lead to failure. Iraq 
then likely would fall into further chaos and transform itself, much as 
Afghanistan did a decade ago, into a breeding ground for terrorists, 
who plot attacks not on our troops in Iraq but upon our civilians here 
at home.

Make no mistake, failure of the U.S. mission in Iraq will not end the 
war. It will only shift the battlefield. The terrorists are at war with 
us, whether we fight back or not.

The consequences of failure in Iraq would be as dramatic as the 
fruits of victory. An Iraqi government stable enough to take the lead 
role in providing for its own internal security will allow us to 
achieve our collective goal, the return of U.S. troops. Rather than 
being allied with terrorists, Iraq would be an ally with America and 
the war on terror. In so doing, it would honor the more than 3,000 
American men and women who have died fighting for its freedom and 
countless more who have been wounded and will bear for their lifetimes 
the scars of battle.

The status quo in Iraq is unacceptable. We need a new strategy, new 
tactics, new commanders on the ground, and a new and sustained 
commitment from the Iraqi government that they will do more of their 
share.

We know that the road ahead will be difficult and that the prospects 
for success are dwindling. But I believe a renewed and amplified effort 
by U.S. forces and Iraqi troops to retain security in Baghdad may offer 
the best hope we have for the lasting success of the U.S. mission and 
for the future stability of Iraq's government. It may also be, I 
believe, our last chance for victory. The President knows this, and I 
believe the Iraqi government and its people know this, too.

It is in that spirit and with that understanding that I will vote 
against this resolution. Our collective prayer is for the safety of our 
troops, for their success, and that they will be reunited with their 
families here at home as soon as possible.