---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ecb9465a796599941d09298dd297b1d7`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 23 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as a proud member of the 
Progressive and the Out of Iraq Caucuses, I rise in support of H.R. 
1591, the ''U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq 
Accountability Act.'' I commend the leadership of the Speaker and her 
team and Chairman Obey and Defense Subcommittee Chairman Murtha for 
their patient and careful crafting of the bill.

I stand in strong support of our troops who have performed 
magnificently in battle with a grace under pressure that is 
distinctively American. I stand with the American people, who have 
placed their trust in the President,


the Vice-President, and the former Secretary of Defense, each of whom 
abused the public trust and patience.

I stand with the American taxpayers who have paid nearly $400 billion 
to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I stand with the 3,222 fallen 
heroes who stand even taller in death because they gave the last full 
measure of devotion to their country.

For these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I stand fully, strongly, and 
unabashedly in support of H.R. 1591, which for the first time puts the 
Congress on record against an open-ended war whose goal line is always 
moving.

Mr. Speaker, I voted against the 2002 Iraq War Resolution. I am proud 
of that vote. I have consistently voted against the Administration's 
practice of submitting a request for war funding through an emergency 
supplemental rather than the regular appropriations process which would 
subject the funding request to more rigorous scrutiny and require it to 
be balanced against other pressing national priorities.


The vote today will put the House on record squarely against the Bush 
Administration's policy of looking the other way while the Iraqi 
government fails to govern a country worthy of a free people with as 
much commitment and dedication to the security and happiness of its 
citizens as has been shown by the heroic American servicemen and women 
who risked their lives and, in the case of over 3,000 fallen heroes, 
lost their lives to win for the Iraqi people the chance to draft their 
own constitution, hold their own free elections, establish their own 
government, and build a future of peace and prosperity for themselves 
and their posterity.

Mr. Speaker, there is no more important issue facing the Congress, 
the President, and the American people than the war in Iraq. It is a 
subject upon which no one is indifferent, least of all members of 
Congress. Many good ideas have been advanced by members of Congress to 
bring to a successful conclusion the American military engagement in 
Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, nearly every decision reached by a legislative body is a 
product of compromise. The bill before us is no different. If it was 
left solely to us, any of us could no doubt add or subtract provisions 
which we think would improve the bill. Indeed, more than fifty 
amendments were offered to H.R. 1591, including four submitted by me. 
In fact, the only amendments voted on by the Rules Committee were two 
of the amendments I offered, although neither was made in order this 
time.

The first of these amendments, Jackson Lee Amendment No. 1, would 
terminate the authority granted by Congress to the President in the 
2002 Authorization for the Use of Military Force in Iraq because the 
objectives for which the authorization was granted have all been 
achieved. Specifically, Congress authorized the President to use 
military force against Iraq to achieve the following objectives:

1. To disarm Iraq of any weapons of mass destruction that could 
threaten the security of the United States and international peace in 
the Persian Gulf region;

2. To change the Iraqi regime so that Saddam Hussein and his Baathist 
party no longer posed a threat to the people of Iraq or its neighbors;

3. To bring to justice any members of al Qaeda known or found to be 
in Iraq bearing responsibility for the attacks on the United States, 
its citizens, and interests, including the attacks that occurred on 
September 11, 2001;

4. To ensure that the regime of Saddam Hussein would not provide 
weapons of mass destruction to international terrorists, including al 
Qaeda; and

5. To enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council 
resolutions regarding Iraq.

Thanks to the skill and valor of the Armed Forces of the United 
States we now know for certain that Iraq does not possess weapons of 
mass destruction. Thanks to the tenacity and heroism of American 
troops, Saddam Hussein was deposed, captured, and dealt with by the 
Iraqi people in such a way that neither he nor his Baathist Party will 
ever again pose a threat to the people of Iraq or its neighbors in the 
region. Nor will the regime ever acquire and provide weapons of mass 
destruction to international terrorists. Also, the American military 
has caught or killed virtually every member of al Qaeda in Iraq 
remotely responsible for the 9/11 attack on our country. Last, all 
relevant U.N. resolutions relating to Iraq have been enforced.

In other words, every objective for which the use of force in Iraq 
was authorized by the 2002 resolution has been achieved, most with 
spectacular success thanks to the professionalism and superior skill of 
our service men and women. The point of my amendment was to recognize, 
acknowledge, and honor this fact.

My second amendment, Jackson Lee Amendment No. 4, would change the 
troop reference date for redeployment set forth in section 1904 from 
March 1, 2008, to December 31, 2007. What this means is that the 
Government of Iraq will have had more than 3 years since the United 
States turned over sovereignty to establish a sustainable government 
with secure borders that can protect its people. I believe that if the 
Allied Forces could win World War III in less than 4 years, certainly 
that is enough time for the Government of Iraq to provide for the 
security of its people, with the substantial assistance of the United 
States.

While there are many good proposals that have been advanced which are 
not included in the bill, we ought not to let the perfect become the 
enemy of the good. This emergency supplemental may not be perfect but 
it is better--far better--than any legislation relating to the war in 
Iraq that has ever been brought to the floor far a vote. Let me count 
the ways.

First, H.R. 1591 ensures that U.S. forces in the field have all of 
the resources they require. Second, the bill directs more resources to 
the war against al-Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan. Third it 
improves healthcare for returning service members and veterans. Fourth, 
it establishes a timeline for ending the United States participation in 
Iraq's civil war. Last, it demands accountability by conditioning 
continued American military involvement in Iraq upon certification by 
the President that the Iraq Government is making meaningful and 
substantial progress in meeting political and military benchmarks, 
including a militia disarmament program and a plan that equitably 
shares oil revenues among all Iraqis.


Mr. Speaker, I want to take a few minutes to discuss why the American 
people believe so strongly that the time has come to an end the policy 
of not placing any demands or conditions on American military 
assistance to the Government of Iraq.

As Kenneth M. Pollack of the Brookings Institution, and a former 
senior member of the NSC, brilliantly describes in his essay, ''The 
Seven Deadly Sins Of Failure In Iraq: A Retrospective Analysis Of The 
Reconstruction,'' in Middle East Review of International Affairs 
(December 2006), our trust and patience has been repaid by a record of 
incompetence unmatched in the annals of American foreign policy.

The Bush administration disregarded the advice of experts on Iraq, on 
nation-building, and on military operations. It staged both the 
invasion and the reconstruction on the cheap. It did not learn from its 
mistakes and did not commit the resources necessary to accomplish its 
original lofty goals or later pedestrian objectives. It ignored 
intelligence that contradicted its own views.

It is clear now that the Administration simply never believed in the 
necessity of a major reconstruction in Iraq. To exacerbate matters the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the White House Office of 
the Vice President (OVP) worked together to ensure that the State 
Department was excluded from any meaningful involvement in the 
reconstruction of Iraq.

The Administration's chief Iraq hawks shared a deeply naive view that 
the fall of Saddam and his top henchmen would have relatively little 
impact on the overall Iraqi governmental structure. They assumed that 
Iraq's bureaucracy would remain intact and would therefore be capable 
of running the country and providing Iraqis with basic services. They 
likewise assumed that the Iraqi armed forces would largely remain 
cohesive and would surrender whole to U.S. forces. The result of all 
this was a fundamental lack of attention to realistic planning for the 
postwar environment.

As it was assumed that the Iraqis would be delighted to be liberated 
little thought was given to security requirements after Saddam's fall. 
The dearth of planning for the provision of security and basic services 
stemmed from the mistaken belief that Iraqi political institutions 
would remain largely intact and therefore able to handle those 
responsibilities.


But there were too few Coalition troops, which meant that long supply 
lines were vulnerable to attack by Iraqi irregulars, and the need to 
mask entire cities at times took so much combat power that it brought 
the entire offensive to a halt.

It was not long before these naive assumptions and inadequate 
planning conjoined to sow the seeds of the chaos we have witnessed in 
Iraq.

The lack of sufficient troops to secure the country led to the 
immediate outbreak of lawlessness resulting in massive looting and 
destruction dealt a stunning psychological blow to Iraqi confidence in 
the United States, from which the country has yet to recover. We 
removed Saddam Hussein's regime but we did not move to fill the 
military, political, and economic vacuum. The unintended consequence 
was the birth of a failing state, which provided the opportunity for 
the insurgency to flourish and prevented the development of 
governmental institutions capable of providing Iraqis with the most 
basic services such as clean water, sanitation, electricity, and a 
minimally functioning economy capable of generating basic employment.

Making matters worse, the Administration arrogantly denied the United 
Nations overall


authority for the reconstruction even though the U.N. had far more 
expertise and experience in nation building.

The looting and anarchy, the persistent insurgent attacks, the lack 
of real progress in restoring basic services, and the failure to find 
the promised weapons of mass destruction undercut the Administration's 
claim that things were going well in Iraq and led it to make the next 
set of serious blunders, which was the disbanding of the Iraqi military 
and security services.

Mr. Speaker, counterinsurgency experts will tell you that to pacify 
an occupied country it is essential to disarm, demobilize, and retrain 
(DDR) the local army. The idea behind a DDR program is to entice, 
cajole, or even coerce soldiers back to their own barracks or to other 
facilities where they can be fed, clothed, watched, retrained, and 
prevented from joining an insurgency movement, organized crime, or an 
outlaw militia.

By disbanding the military and security services without a DDR 
program, as many as one million Iraqi men were set at large with no 
money, no means to support their families, and no skills other than how 
to use a gun. Not surprisingly, many of these humiliated Sunni officers 
went home and joined the burgeoning Sunni insurgency.

The next major mistake made in the summer of 2003 was the decision to 
create an Iraqi Governing Council (IGC), which laid the foundation for 
many of Iraq's current political woes. Many of the IGC leaders were 
horribly corrupt, and they stole from the public treasury and 
encouraged their subordinates to do the same. The IGC set the tone for 
later Iraqi governments, particularly the transitional governments of 
Ayad Allawi and Ibrahim Jaafari that followed.

Finally, by insisting that all of the problems of the country were 
caused by the insurgency rather than recognizing the problems of the 
country were helping to fuel the insurgency, the Bush administration 
set about concentrating its efforts in all the wrong places and on the 
wrong problems.

This explains why for nearly all of 2004 and 2005, our troops were 
disproportionately deployed in the Sunni triangle trying to catch and 
kill insurgents. Although our troops caught and killed insurgents by 
the hundreds and thousands, these missions were not significantly 
advancing our strategic objectives. Indeed, they had little long-term 
impact because insurgents are always willing to flee temporarily rather 
than fight a leviathan. Second, because so many coalition forces were 
playing ''whack-a-mole'' with insurgents in the sparsely populated 
areas of western Iraq, the rest of the country was left vulnerable to 
take-over by militias.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, a cruel irony is that because the Iraqi 
Government brought exiles and militia leaders into the government and 
gave them positions of power, it is now virtually impossible to get 
them out, and even more difficult to convince them to make compromises 
because the militia leaders have learned they can use their government 
positions to maintain and expand their personal power, at the expense 
both of their rivals who are not in the government and of the central 
government itself.

All of this was avoidable and the blame for the lack of foresight 
falls squarely on the White House and the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense.

Mr. Speaker, the American people spoke loudly and clearly last 
November when they tossed out the Rubber-Stamp Republican Congress. 
They voted for a New Direction in Iraq and for change in America. They 
voted to disentangle American troops from the carnage, chaos, and civil 
war in Iraq. They voted for accountability and oversight, which we 
Democrats have begun to deliver on; already the new majority has held 
more than 100 congressional hearings related to the Iraq War, 
investigating everything from the rampant waste, fraud, and abuse of 
Iraq reconstruction funding to troop readiness to the Iraq Study Group 
Report to the shameful mistreatment of wounded soldiers recuperating at 
Walter Reed Medical Center.


Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health 
and Iraq Accountability Act provides real benchmarks and consequences 
if the Iraqi Government fails to live up to its commitments. First, it 
requires the President to certify and report to Congress on July 1, 
2007 that real progress is underway on key benchmarks for the Iraqi 
government. If the President cannot so certify, redeployment of U.S. 
troops must begin immediately and be completed within 180 days. If the 
President fails to certify that Iraq has met the benchmarks on October 
1, 2007, a redeployment of U.S. troops would begin immediately at that 
time and must be completed within 180 days. In any case, at the latest, 
a redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq must begin by March 1, 2008, 
and must be completed by August 31, 2008.

Since the benchmarks the Iraqi Government must meet are those 
established pursuant to President Bush's policies, it is passing 
strange indeed that he would threaten to veto the bill since it 
necessarily means he would veto his own benchmarks for the performance 
of the Iraqi government. He would veto his own readiness standards for 
U.S. troops. The President demands this Congress send him an Iraq war 
bill with ''no strings.'' But the only ''strings'' attached, Mr. 
Speaker, are the benchmarks and standards imposed by the President 
himself.

Mr. Speaker, in addition to the enormous financial cost, the human 
cost to the men and women of the United States Armed Forces has also 
been high but they have willingly paid it. Operation Iraqi Freedom has 
exacerbated the Veterans' Administration health care facility 
maintenance backlog; placed an undue strain on the delivery of medical 
treatment and rehabilitative services for current and new veterans; and 
exacted a heavy toll on the equipment, training and readiness 
requirements, and the families of the men and women of the United 
States Armed Forces.


The emergency supplemental acknowledges the sacrifices made by, and 
the debt of gratitude, we and the Iraqi people owe to Armed Forces of 
the United States. But more than that, it makes a substantial down 
payment on that debt by providing substantial increases in funding for 
our troops.

The supplemental includes a total appropriation of $2.8 billion for 
Defense Health Care, which is $1.7 billion above the President's 
request. The additional funding supports new initiatives to enhance 
medical services for active duty forces and mobilized personnel, and 
their family members. Included in this new funding is $450 million for 
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder/Counseling; $450 million for Traumatic 
Brain Injury care and research; $730 million to prevent health care fee 
increases for our troops; $20 million to address the problems at Walter 
Reed; and $14.8 million for burn care.

Unlike the Republican leadership of the 109th Congress and the Bush 
administration, the new Democratic majority is committed to America's 
veterans. What's more, we back up that commitment by investing in their 
well-being. For example, the bill includes $1.7 billion above the 
President's request for initiatives to address the health care needs of 
Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and the backlog in maintaining VA health 
care facilities, including $550 million to address the backlog in 
maintaining VA health care facilities so as to prevent the VA from 
experiencing a situation similar to that found at Walter Reed Medical 
Center.

The bill includes an additional $250 million for medical 
administration to ensure there are sufficient personnel to support the 
growing number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and to maintain a high 
level of services for all veterans; $229 million for treating the 
growing number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans; $100 million for 
contract mental health care, which will allow the VA to contract with 
private mental health care providers to ensure that Iraq and 
Afghanistan veterans are seen in the most timely and least disruptive 
fashion, including members of the Guard and Reserve; and $62 million to 
speed up the processing of claims of veterans returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, when American troops are sent into harm's way, America 
has an obligation to do all it can to minimize the risk of harm to the 
troops. That is why I am pleased the supplemental includes additional 
funding above the President's request to support our troops. We are 
providing $2.5 billion more to address the current readiness crisis of 
our stateside troops, including ensuring that they are better equipped 
and trained. We include $1.4 billion more for military housing 
allowances and $311 million more for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected 
(MRAP) vehicles for troops in Iraq. And there is included in the 
supplemental $222 million more for infrared countermeasures for Air 
Force aircraft to address the growing threat against U.S. air 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.


Equally important, Mr. Speaker, the supplemental contains language 
directing the President to adhere to current military guidelines for 
unit readiness, deployments, and time between deployments.

The supplemental requires the Defense Department to abide by its 
current Unit Readiness policy, requiring the chief of the military 
department concerned to determine that a unit is ''fully mission 
capable'' before it is deployed to Iraq. The President may waive this 
provision by submitting a report to Congress detailing why the unit's 
deployment is in the interests of national security despite the 
assessment that the unit is not fully mission capable.

The Defense Department is also required to abide by its current 
policy and avoid extending the deployment of units in Iraq in excess of 
365 days for the Army and 210 days for the Marines. The provision may 
be waived by the President only by submitting a report to Congress 
detailing the particular reason or reasons why the unit's extended 
deployment is in the interests of national security.

Mr. Speaker, to reduce the incidence of combat fatigue and enhance 
readiness, it is


important that our troops have sufficient time out of the combat zone 
and training between deployments. The supplemental requires the Defense 
Department to abide by its current policy and avoid sending units back 
into Iraq before troops get the required time away from the war 
theater. The President may waive this provision by submitting a report 
to Congress detailing why the unit's early redeployment to Iraq is in 
the interests of national security.

Last but not least, Mr. Speaker, it must be noted that the cost of 
the war in Iraq to the United States has also been high regarding the 
new and neglected needs of the American people. Americans have been 
exceedingly tolerant and patient with this Administration's handling of 
the situation in Iraq. We have postponed, foregone, or neglected needed 
investments in education, infrastructure, housing, homeland security.


That is why I am very pleased that the supplemental includes the 
following $4.3 billion for Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) 
disaster recovery grants, including $910 million to cover the cost of 
waiving the matching fund requirements in the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5174 
(Public Law 93-288) (Stafford Act) for state and local government 
meaning the Federal government will finance 100 percent of the grants.

Waiving the Stafford Act's matching fund requirement is critically 
important to the Gulf Coast states devastated by Hurricanes Katrina and 
Rita. Based on my multiple listening trips to New Orleans and the Gulf 
Coast region, and my numerous meetings and discussions with government 
officials at all levels in the affected states and with survivors of 
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, many of whom now are relocated to my 
Houston congressional district, the most important lesson I have 
learned is that the Stafford Act is in its present form is simply 
inadequate to address the scale of devastation and human suffering 
wrought by a disaster the magnitude of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. I 
thank Mr. Obey and Mr. Murtha for responding to concerns I expressed to 
President Bush about the need to modernize the Stafford Act so that it 
remains relevant to the 21st Century.

I believe the Stafford Act must be amended to grant the federal 
government explicit authority and flexibility to provide long-term 
recovery assistance to communities devastated by disasters of the 
magnitude of Hurricane Katrina and Rita. Such authority currently does 
not exist and the Stafford Act's emphasis on temporary assistance to 
affected individuals and communities is simply inadequate to address 
the scope of human suffering we witnessed last August and which is 
still with us today. I will continue my efforts to modernize the 
Stafford Act. But I very strongly approve of the nearly $1 billion 
included in the bill to waive the matching fund requirements for hard-
pressed state and local governments coping with emergencies of the 
scale of Hurricane Katrina.

Social Services Block Grant (SSBG) funding has been extended to 
September 30, 2010. SSBG funding provides critically needed social 
services, including programs for mental health, child welfare, and the 
treatment of addictive disorders.

Also allocated is $1.3 billion for east and west bank levee 
protection and coastal restoration systems in New Orleans and 
surrounding parishes.

There is included $25 million for Small Business Administration (SBA) 
disaster loans and $80 million for U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD) tenant-based rental assistance. The supplemental also 
adds $400 million to restore partial cuts to the Low Income Home Energy 
Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This funding will bring much needed relief 
to many States that are running out of LIHEAP funds just as many 
utility shut-off moratoriums are set to expire.

The supplemental adds $750 million to the State Children's Health 
Insurance Program (SCHIP) to ensure continued healthcare coverage for 
children in 14 States that face a budget shortfall in the program. By 
taking prompt action now, these States will not be forced to stop 
enrolling new beneficiaries or begin curtailing benefits.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, the supplemental provides $30 million for K-12 
education recruitment assistance; $30 million for higher education 
assistance; and $40 million in security assistance for Liberia. It also 
includes an additional $1 billion to purchase vaccines needed to 
protect Americans from a global pandemic. Development of production 
capacity for a pandemic vaccine must be accelerated so that 
manufacturers can quickly produce enough quantities to protect the 
population.

In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, let me say that although the bill may not 
be the best I might have hoped for, I have concluded that it is the 
best that can be achieved at this time, this moment in history. I 
support the bill because I believe it represents a change of course and 
a new direction in our policy on Iraq. This bill will place us on the 
road that will reunite our troops with their families and bring them 
home with honor and success.

Mr. Speaker, the bill before is not asking us to expand or extend the 
war in Iraq. I would not and will not do that. On the contrary, this 
bill offers us the first real chance to vote to end the war. This bill 
puts us on the glide path to the day when our troops come home where we 
can ''care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and 
orphan.'' This bill helps to repair the damage to America's 
international reputation and prestige. This bill brings long overdue 
oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and 
reconstruction contracting and procurement.

Most important, Mr. Speaker, this bill offers us the first real 
chance to vote to end the war. We should take advantage of this 
opportunity. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1591, the ''U.S. 
Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act.''