---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `eceaa69f9724b4ea6bfae97ce1f9498d`
`Mr. LUGAR â€” 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, the bill before us contains more than $128 
billion for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. Since the President's 
announcement 2 weeks ago that he would be ordering tens of thousands of 
additional U.S. troops to Afghanistan, the Congress has held numerous 
hearings examining the military strategy to be employed, political 
issues in the region, and the dispensation of funding for the war.

As we consider our course in Afghanistan, we should evaluate options 
according to how well they contribute to U.S. national security. The 
ultimate purpose of committing tens of thousands of new troops and tens 
of billions of additional dollars to the war effort in Afghanistan must 
be to enhance U.S. security and our vital national interests in the 
region.

Sometimes during long wars, specific tactical objectives can become 
ends in themselves, disconnected from the broader strategic context or 
an accounting of finite resources. Congressional oversight of the funds 
in this bill is part of that accounting. We need to get the most value 
for our defense dollar in Afghanistan, as well as Iraq. This is 
especially true at a time when our Armed Forces have been strained by 
many years of high deployment rates, our capacity for new government 
debt is limited, and our Nation has not fully emerged from a severe 
recession. As we think through the implications of the defense spending 
bill before us, we need to be cognizant that even if the President's 
Afghanistan plan achieves the very best stabilization scenario, 
allowing for U.S. withdrawals on the schedule he contemplates, we may 
be responsible for most of the Afghanistan defense and police budgets 
indefinitely.

Much of the debate in Congress has focused on the President's stated 
intention to begin withdrawing some U.S. troops by July 2011. Some 
Members have voiced the concern that such a date undercuts impressions 
of U.S. resolve and gives the Taliban and al-Qaida a target beyond 
which they can wait us out. Other Members, with a very different view 
of the war, worry that the July 2011 date is so flexible that it offers 
no assurance at all that troops will be withdrawn. This is a legitimate 
item for debate, but I am doubtful that success or failure hinges on 
this point nearly as much as it does on the counterinsurgency strategy 
employed by allied troops, the viability of the Afghan security forces, 
and most importantly, how the United States engages with Pakistan.

I have confidence that the addition of tens of thousands of U.S. and 
allied troops, under the direction of Generals Petraeus and McChrystal 
will improve the security situation on the ground in Afghanistan. More 
uncertain is whether the training mission will succeed sufficiently to 
allow U.S. forces to disengage from combat duties in a reasonable time 
period. The most salient question, however, is whether improvements on 
the ground in Afghanistan will mean much if Taliban and al-Qaida 
sanctuaries in Pakistan remain or if instability within Pakistan 
intensifies.

As hearings in the Foreign Relations Committee have underscored, the 
potential global impact of instability in a nuclear armed Pakistan 
dwarfs anything that is likely to happen in Afghanistan. The future 
direction of governance in Pakistan will have consequences for 
nonproliferation efforts, global economic stability, our relationships 
with India and China, and security in both the Middle East and South 
Asia regions, among other major issues. The President and his team must 
justify their plan not only on the basis of how it will affect 
Afghanistan, but also on how it will impact our efforts to promote a 
much stronger alliance with Pakistan that embraces vital common 
objectives.

Secretaries Clinton and Gates and Admiral Mullen acknowledged the 
importance of Pakistan in the President's calculation. They underscored 
that the administration is executing a regional strategy. I am 
encouraged by press reports that have described the intense diplomatic 
efforts with the Pakistani government aimed at securing much greater 
cooperation.

But we should remain cognizant that the focus of policy tends to 
follow resources. By that measure, Afghanistan will still be at the 
core of our regional effort.

The President has said that the United States did not choose this 
war, and he is correct. But with these troop deployments to 
Afghanistan, we are choosing the battlefield where we will concentrate 
most of our available military resources. The Afghanistan battlefield 
has the inherent disadvantage of sitting astride a border with Pakistan 
that is a porous line for the militants, but a strategic obstacle for 
coalition forces. As long as this border provides the enemy with an 
avenue of retreat for resupply and sanctuary, our prospects for 
destroying or incapacitating the insurgency are negligible.

The risk is that we will expend tens of billions of dollars fighting 
in Afghanistan, while Taliban and al-Qaida leaders become increasingly 
secure in Pakistan, where the long-term strategic stakes are even 
higher. If they are able to sit safely across the border directing a 
hit-and-run war against us in Afghanistan, plotting catastrophic 
terrorist attacks abroad, and working to destabilize Pakistan from 
within, our strategic goals in the region will be threatened despite 
progress on the ground in Afghanistan.

Some reports indicate that Taliban leaders, aware of the threat from 
U.S. operated Predator drones, are moving out of remote areas into 
crowded Pakistani cities, including Karachi. If such reports are true, 
the United States will have even fewer options in pursuing Taliban and 
al-Qaida leaders in Pakistan, absent the active help of Pakistani 
authorities. Specifically, will


Pakistan work with us to eliminate the leadership of Osama bin Laden 
and other major al-Qaida officials?

In addition to improving the cooperation of the Pakistani 
authorities, the United States and our allies will have to become more 
creative in how we engage with the Afghan and Pakistani people. We 
should understand that as a matter of survival, people in dangerous 
areas on both sides of the border will tend to side with whoever is 
seen as having the best chance of winning. We should also recognize 
that tribal loyalties, most notably Pashtun loyalties, are at odds with 
a strong central government and with acquiescence to external military 
power. As Seth Jones of the Rand Corporation has observed: ''The 
objective should be to do what Afghanistan's most effective historical 
governments have done: help Pashtun tribes, sub-tribes, and clans 
provide security and justice in their areas and manage the process.'' 
Meaningful progress in Afghanistan is likely to require tolerance, or 
even encouragement, of tribal administration in many areas, as well as 
convincing tribal leaders that opposing the Taliban is in their 
interest.


In these circumstances, we should explore how cell phones and other 
communication technologies can be used more effectively, both as an 
avenue for public diplomacy to the Afghan people and as a means for 
gathering intelligence from them. Already, seven million cell phones 
are in Afghanistan--one for every four inhabitants. The Taliban's 
reported priority on destroying communications towers underscores their 
understanding of the threat posed by these technologies. For example, 
cell phones could be used by sympathetic Afghans to produce real-time 
intelligence, including photographs of IEDs being prepared or calls 
alerting coalition troops to movements of the Taliban. Phones eliminate 
the need for informants to take the risks of visiting a police station 
in person or of conversing openly with U.S. troops. Similarly, 
expanding the use of credit card transactions could prove revolutionary 
in addressing some vexing problems in a country that lacks an effective 
banking system. They can provide a way to reduce corruption, improve 
accounting within the Afghan government and security forces, and 
relieve soldiers from the need to go AWOL to deliver pay safely to 
their families.

I want to recognize that the President has been confronted with 
extremely difficult choices in Afghanistan and Pakistan. He and his 
team have worked through the problem carefully and deliberately to 
reach their conclusions. There are no options available that are 
guaranteed to succeed. Every conceivable course, from complete 
withdrawal to maintaining the status quo to the plan outlined by the 
President, to an unrestrained and unlimited counterinsurgency campaign 
has its own set of risks and costs for the United States. The President 
deserves credit for accepting ownership of this difficult problem as we 
go forward. In this situation, the advocacy of the President and his 
national security team must continue to be as broad-minded and thorough 
as his policy review appeared to be.

Within months, the President is likely to ask Congress for additional 
funds for Afghanistan, beyond what is contained in this bill. In the 
meantime, the administration must be prepared to answer many questions 
about its strategy as the American people study the potential 
consequences of the President's decision.