---
---

# TRIBUTE TO CALIFORNIA NATIONAL GUARD SERGEANT RHYS W. KLASNO
## `ecf20a6fc1e9cb445ed4814e7d05cc11`
`Mr. CALVERT — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a hero from my 
congressional district, California National Guard Sergeant Rhys W. 
Klasno. Today I ask that the House of Representatives honor and 
remember this incredible young man who died in service to his country.

Rhys was born in Orange, California and attended Woodcrest Christian 
middle and high schools in Riverside, California. School officials and 
teachers remember Rhys fondly--he was a good student who was friendly 
with classmates and teachers.

Sergeant Klasno enlisted in the California National Guard in 2004 and 
was trained as an ammunition Sergeant before being reassigned in April 
2006 as a heavy vehicle driver for the 1114th Transportation Company, 
according to the Riverside Press Enterprise. Members of Rhys's unit 
recall a young man who was ready to help others. After his enlistment 
in the National Guard, Rhys had planned to become a paramedic and to 
help save lives. Rhys deployed to Iraq in July 2006 and was killed 
Sunday, May 13, 2007, by a roadside bomb in Haditha, Iraq. Rhys 
received the National Defense Medal, the Army Service Ribbon and the 
Drill Attendance Ribbon. Today Sergeant Klasno was laid to rest at 
Riverside National Cemetery in California.

Rhys leaves behind his wife, Stephanie Ann Klasno and their soon-to-
be-born daughter, London; his mother and father Michael and Lynn 
Klasno; and his grandparents Elisabeth Klasno of Temecula and Robert E. 
Jardinico of Arizona.

As we look at the incredibly rich military history of our country, we 
realize that this history is comprised of men, just like Rhys, who 
bravely fought for the ideals of freedom and democracy. Each story is 
unique and humbling for those of us who, far from the dangers they have 
faced, live our lives in relative comfort and ease. Today was probably 
the hardest day the Klasno family has ever faced and my thoughts, 
prayers and deepest gratitude for their sacrifice goes out to them. 
There are no words that can relieve their pain and what words I offer 
only begin to convey my deep respect and highest appreciation.

Sergeant Klasno's wife and family have all given a part of themselves 
today in the loss of their loved one and I hope they know that their 
husband, son and grandson, the goodness he brought to this world and 
the sacrifice he has made, will be remembered.
