---
---

# TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT
## `ecfc42349994ac7ff405f2c0004a8ae5`
`Mr. SOUDER — 4 June 2009`

---


Mr. SOUDER. I thank my colleague from Texas.

First, I get tired of hearing my own language read back to me. The 
only language that's relevant here was the part that gutted my 
amendment which says, ''after a final disposition has issued,'' which 
eliminates, one, what are they doing until there is a final 
disposition? If they've been released into America, they are on the 
planes with us, and we're hoping that the final disposition might occur 
in--I don't know--2 years, 6 years, 8 years, if they're released. The 
amendment only covers those who are released. That's if they're on the 
list. They automatically go on the list. But the big concern is not if 
they're imprisoned, unless they escape, but whether they're released 
and that the final disposition, if it is that either we didn't 
challenge it--in other words, we just released them because we didn't 
want to have them in trial or that they were found not guilty.

To quote Mr. Pascrell, my good friend--and we are good friends--he 
doesn't want, nor does Mr. DeFazio want, these potential and actual 
terrorists--I mean, understand in Gitmo, the people that are there, 
they are the ones we haven't released. Maybe they were innocently 
carrying an IED or a Kalashnikov, but these were picked up in 
Afghanistan on the battlefield. These are military detainees. These 
aren't kind of casual people here that we're talking about. They have 
been picked up on the battlefield. The only


question is, how are we going to try them? How are we going to process 
them?

By the way, the only thing we can get out of the administration as 
far as the question of being in prison, many are likely already on the 
No Fly List. The key words here are ''many are likely on the No Fly 
List.'' They should all be on the No Fly List. Whether they're detained 
or imprisoned or not, they should be on the No Fly List. We also heard 
a reference to the Aspen Conference yesterday. Secretary Napolitano 
said that DHS's role would be--apparently this is a summary--to address 
the security aspects of the immigration issue regarding the detainees.

Now I was in the El Paso Detention Center. There I saw Arellano 
Felix, one of the major drug people, about to be released in Ciudad 
Juarez. We hope they picked him up. But this has been the process. We 
also had a Chinese illegal who was about to be released. He was in the 
high-risk detention center with Arellano Felix because he had been 
violent, beating up guards, particularly beating up other prisoners.

I said, What's going to happen?

They said, Well, China won't take him back. We have to release him 
into the United States.

So is anybody going to be warned? Are we going to track him?

No, we can't. We can only hold detainees for so long; and then if we 
want to proceed with another court case, they're released until then.

What happens to him?

Well, he may wind up in a prison if he beats up somebody or does 
something.

We have an obligation, as Congress, to make sure that none of these 
detainees are on an airplane with us.

Mr. Chair, during the Committee on Homeland Security consideration of 
H.R. 2200, Mr. Pascrell spoke against my amendment to require all 
detainees at Guantanamo Bay, GTMO, to be placed on the Transportation 
Security Administration, TSA, No Fly List. Mr. Pascrell argued that it 
was presumptive and that the President should have the opportunity to 
make a final disposition on each case rather than automatically require 
that all GTMO detainees be prevented from flying on U.S. commercial 
aircraft.

Specifically, Mr. Pascrell stated, ''We know that many--and it could 
be all--are bad actors of those 270. But we don't know that yet, do we? 
We don't know that. And the point of the matter is, the President has a 
right to exercise his authority. I'm saying, let the President act, and 
then we can always respond.''

I originally intended to include this quote in my oral statement to 
demonstrate the lack of clarity and understanding regarding what will 
happen with the GTMO detainees given the President's decision to close 
the GTMO facility. I agree with Mr. Pascrell that no one knows yet what 
will happen. Where I strongly disagree is that Congress should not wait 
to see what the President decides, which could open up a huge security 
loophole. Congress must take proactive measures to ensure the safety 
and security of the American traveling public and my amendment would 
have ensured that they were not going to be sitting next to a suspected 
terrorist from GTMO on their next flight.