---
---

# MANNER OF CONDUCTING PROCEEDINGS IN THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `ed06e3a8481cda34a3f241fcf98b6cb8`
`Mr. SHADEGG — 9 March 2007`

---


Mr. SHADEGG. I thank the gentleman for yielding and appreciate his 
taking the time to bring this message here to the floor and to talk 
about it.

I guess my curiosity or my interest is piqued by you talking about 
the conditions that are placed in this bill. I will tell you that I 
fundamentally do not believe that you can justify, that any nation 
could ever justify, announcing, while their troops were in the field in 
the middle of a war, announcing that on a date certain in the future, 
we are


going to unilaterally stop. It seems to me that the illogic of that 
should be apparent to everybody, but even perhaps the immorality of 
that should be important. How do we say to troops, well, fight until 
August of 2008, and then, by the click of a tock on the arm of a clock, 
by the hand going one more notch until it now becomes August 2008, the 
fight is over. To me, that makes no sense. And I think it is important 
that the Nation have a discussion about whether that policy makes any 
sense.

I would like to discuss it from two points of view. First of all, 
will withdrawing from Iraq end the war? I think that is a fair 
question. Our colleagues on the other side of the aisle say, if we 
withdraw from Iraq, if we so called ''redeploy,'' that will end the 
war. Well, I think that is worth discussing, and I think that is an 
important issue. But I think there is another important issue, and that 
issue is, what do we owe to the people of Iraq? And on that latter 
point, I want to note that this morning a reporter for UPI appeared on 
Washington Journal; her name is Pamela Hess. She has written a series 
of articles that, as you know, in Washington Journal, they have callers 
call in. And a caller called in and said, look, this is an unjustified 
war; we are never going to win, all the various arguments. And she 
said, well, I would like to suggest, and she was not taking anybody's 
side in the fight; she said, I would like to suggest that it is 
important for us to recognize that while one can criticize or analyze 
the reasons why we went to war, and that is one set of facts and 
circumstances, one can also look at why we are there now. And 
interestingly, her assertion is one that I have made, and she laid out 
an explanation. She said, having come into Iraq as we did, having 
dismantled their army, sent them packing, having dismantled their 
police forces, sent them packing, having dismantled, disassembled, 
taken apart their government, we created a situation where there was 
chaos.



Ms. Hess, in her comments on Washington Journal this morning, said, 
stop for a moment and imagine if another country had invaded the United 
States and if they had wiped out our Army and wiped out and disbanded 
our police forces and sent them home and then taken down our 
government. How long would it take before even here in the United 
States we began to see chaos, not unlike the chaos you see on the 
streets in Iraq?

And her argument was one that I think is the other important argument 
which is not being made in this debate. The one, as I mentioned, is if 
we retreat, if we embrace defeat, as our colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle are urging us to do, and say we cannot win in Iraq, let us 
leave and let us leave by a date certain, my first argument is, we can 
leave but the war will not end. I would suggest they have already 
demonstrated they will come to the United States. They will attack us 
here. They will attack Americans and nonradical Muslims all over the 
world. They will attack us and other Westerners in Europe, in Spain, in 
Indonesia. They will attack us everywhere. So I will suggest the war 
will not end.

The second argument is, forgetting how the war started, what 
obligation do we have to assist the people of Iraq in reestablishing 
the basics of a government, of a police force and of an army such that 
they can stop chaos, they can stop lawlessness?

One of the ways that you hear people in the Middle East articulate 
this, and the ambassadors from Jordan and Saudi Arabia came and made 
this argument to us and I think you heard them talk, they said the 
United States came into Iraq uninvited; the United States owes it to 
the Middle East and to the people of Iraq not to leave uninvited. And 
then you ask them what they mean by that, and they mean the same thing 
that Pamela Hess said, which is we have an obligation to aid the Iraqi 
people at least until they can get a government up and functioning, an 
army up and functioning, and a police force so that chaos does not 
reign.

I think those are the two key arguments. I would insert into the 
Record articles that Ms. Hess has written since returning from her most 
recent visit to Iraq that document the things that have changed.











Analysis: Loudspeaker Diplomacy















(By Pamela Hess)




 Ramadi, Iraq, Feb. 17.--It's old fashioned. It's low-tech 


 but it works. One U.S. unit operating in Iraq has found the 


 best way to win hearts and minds is to put loudspeakers on 


 police stations. The speaker systems are erected over the 


 police stations. The daily broadcasts are 10 to 15 minutes 


 long. They are timed not to compete with the call to prayers, 


 and the messages are written by the police and local 


 political officials. Some of the speeches are copied onto CDs 


 and distributed around town. The broadcasts include Iraqi top 


 40 music; news dispatches taken from the BBC and Al Jazeera, 


 speeches by the governor and the police chief, warnings about 


 high threat areas, and the national anthem.



 ''That's a pretty catchy song,'' said Maj. Dan Zappa, the 


 executive officer of the 1st Battalion, 6th Marine Regiment, 


 responsible for security operations in some of the most 


 contested areas of Ramadi. ''It's interspersed with popular 


 music. We've got video of kids dancing, hundreds of them, 


 jumping around.''



 ''We have the police chief in western Ramadi'' Zappa said, 


 ''and he's addressing his family, his extended family and his 


 tribe.'' Said Maj. Tiley Nunnink, a guest staff member of the 


 battalion sent by the Marine Corps Warfighting Lab in 


 Virginia: ''It's a vehicle for Iraqi policemen to say what 


 they need to say to the people.''



 The loudspeaker program would be a gamble in a town without 


 a legitimate local police presence. In that case it would 


 just be the overbearing--and clumsily worded--symbol of the 


 occupation trying to co-opt local religious customs, senior 


 commanders said.



 But they believe the loudspeaker broadcasts are part of 


 what seems to be turning the population in Ramadi against the 


 insurgency.



 ''The system's working because the local population is 


 approaching the Iraqi police with valuable information to 


 help put down criminal acts--roadside bombs, building IEDs, 


 stuff like that,'' Zappa said.



 ''Those are definitely the metrics, how does the population 


 respond to this?'' Nunnink said. ''You can hear it in the 


 broadcast. The broadcast says thank you for providing this 


 information. You're contributing to the further security of 


 the city.''



 The loudspeaker initiative addresses a huge hole in U.S. 


 warfighting capabilities in Iraq: Insurgents can turn around 


 videos of successful attacks on U.S. convoys, or dead Iraqi 


 soldiers, or doctored or misrepresented footage of events 


 within hours, sometimes before those events have even been 


 reported to American headquarters. The videos show up on 


 racks of bootlegged DVDs and CDs that seem to be for sale on 


 nearly every street corner almost instantaneously.



 Deployed U.S. forces however, do not have the authority to 


 respond directly on their own; ''information operations'' 


 products and messages have to be approved at high levels in 


 the chain of command. That takes time, and by the time the 


 message is approved, the story has moved on. Score one for 


 the adversary.



 ''I have the power to call in a lethal air strike but not 


 to respond to an insurgent video,'' one senior U.S. commander 


 told UPI this week.



 ''We've been getting our butt kicked by the (local) 


 media,'' Zappa said. ''There would be an incident when they 


 would blow up a Humvee and kill two Marines and wound 


 civilians, and they would turn that around and say that we 


 wounded the civilians.''



 ''That's how information travels out here, by word of 


 mouth,'' Nunnink said. ''So the question was, how are we 


 going to compete with that?''



 Ramadi is notorious as one of the bloodiest battlefields 


 for U.S. forces.



 ''There are local Iraqis doing great things for the 


 community, innocent civilians, heroes, trying to put down the 


 insurgents,'' said Zappa, a native of Pittsburgh. ''They are 


 out there but they don't have the ability to get the voice 


 that the insurgents do. So that population sitting on the 


 fence doesn't know, doesn't understand because they are not 


 in receive mode of that information.''



 For the last four years, U.S. forces have tried hosting 


 daily radio shows or cobbling together television broadcasts 


 to try to win the loyalty of the people. They hand out flyers 


 promising additional reconstruction funds if violence ebbs. 


 None of the delivery methods are really ideal for this 


 culture; the flyers go unread, the television and radio 


 require a recalcitrant public to actively tune in to listen. 


 But one thing everyone listens to is the booming call to 


 prayers from the local mosque's loudspeakers, five times a 


 day, plus a sermon on Friday.



 Zappa and Nunnink and several other headquarters officers 


 meet weekly to discuss the ''non-kinetic'' campaign--that is, 


 all the non-lethal activities the battalion conducts.



 ''Our approach was what can we do that is gonna be more 


 effective. We can kill bad guys all day but you're never 


 gonna kill enough of them; They are always gonna create more. 


 So we ask, what do the people really need? What's gonna give 


 a tactical advantage? What's gonna get the Iraqi army, get 


 the police out there? These are the things that drove us,'' 


 Zappa said.



 ''We realized the opportunity was here if we could convince 


 people the insurgency is not supporting them, it was 


 destroying their city . . . it was just offering chaos, and 


 capitalize on that, and the little successes that




 these (Iraqi police) guys were bringing to the table.''



 It was in one of these meetings they came up with the 


 notion of a loudspeaker campaign of their own.











Analysis: The U.S. War of Ideas















(By Pamela Hess)




 Washington, Jan. 5.--As the ''global war on terrorism'' 


 enters its sixth year, the United States government is 


 beginning to rethink its approach to the larger battle--the 


 so-called ''war of ideas.''



 The war on terror is, at its heart, a physical fight 


 against extremists. The war of ideas, on the other hand, is a 


 philosophical debate that pits extremist ideology in the 


 Muslim world against tolerance and freedom. So far, however, 


 the United States seems to be losing.



 A Zogby International poll released in December shows that 


 the vast majority of Arabs in five key countries view the 


 United States and its policies in a strongly negative light. 


 In two countries, Jordan and Morocco, attitudes have declined 


 precipitously in the last year.



 U.S. government officials are grappling with how to win the 


 war of ideas, and some are embracing fresh conclusions: that 


 U.S. actions speak louder than any propaganda it can put 


 forth; that the promotion of democracy should be a sidecar to 


 providing humanitarian aid and economic development in the 


 Arab world; and acceptance that the United States has only a 


 peripheral role to play in the core philosophical debate 


 central to the war of ideas.



 ''I think we have to think about influencing people. The 


 way we influence people is not just what we say, but by what 


 we do and who we are,'' a Pentagon official closely involved 


 in the Defense Department's piece of the war of ideas, told 


 UPI last month. ''It is not primarily about messaging.'' For 


 40 years during the Cold War, the U.S. waged a war of ideas 


 against communism and totalitarianism, and won.



 ''During the Cold War, that was arguably easier to do 


 because the Soviet Union was oppressing people. It was an 


 easier argument to make, and (in Eastern Europe) we were more 


 or less culturally on neutral ground,'' he said.



 '' . . . They didn't really know about us because they were 


 in relatively closed societies. They didn't necessarily hate 


 us,'' he said.



 This new battle is more difficult and requires a different 


 approach, the official said. ''We are starting in the hole,'' 


 he acknowledged. ''In the Muslim world when 70 percent of the 


 people are opposed to the United States, that's a much harder 


 sell.''



 It does not help that many people in the Middle East 


 identify their own governments as their oppressors, and the 


 United States as their oppressors' allies.



 ''We start going in, we go in knowing they dislike us,'' he 


 said. ''It's gonna take a long time.'' He conceives the 


 battle as having two major fronts, and in only one of them 


 can the United States play a major public role.



 The official said the U.S. should not be trying to counter 


 terrorist propaganda. It should be finding ways to encourage 


 competing visions within the Islamic world.



 ''In the strategic sense I don't think we need to have a 


 counter-narrative,'' the official said. ''The violent 


 extremists, they have a single narrative. And I think from a 


 purely strategic perspective we just have to make sure there 


 are other narratives--not necessarily our own--that compete 


 with theirs.'' The debate must be engaged by ''protagonists 


 within the Muslim community,'' he said--probably theologians 


 from Indonesia, the world's largest Muslim country.



 ''We know that the (Muslim) community is much more diverse 


 than it (seems). We have to find those people. I actually 


 think we would do ourselves a great favor if we worked from 


 the outside in, but look to examples outside of the Arab 


 core.''



 There are ''individuals who don't necessarily agree with 


 the United States but who don't agree with violence as a 


 tool,'' he said. ''Supporting that is very important. How we 


 do that is the tough part, because we don't want to taint 


 them by virtue of overt association (with the United States). 


 The government is struggling with how to do that.''



 The second front in the war of ideas is one in which the 


 United States can play a direct public role: changing the 


 conditions in the Arab world that feed terrorism--the lack of 


 educational and economic opportunity, poor health care, and 


 repressive regimes.



 ''Look at the level of despair in the Arab world. It rivals 


 sub-Saharan Africa,'' he said. ''That, plus broken regimes in 


 that part of the world--it's a tinder box.''



 The official believes desperate conditions do not cause 


 Islamic extremism. But they are what makes the Middle East so 


 ripe for recruitment.



 ''They are the kindling of terrorism. They are what 


 terrorists exploit,'' he said. ''I think what the United 


 States can do is essentially remove the kindling.''



 Done well, that could have two effects--draining the number 


 of potential terrorist recruits and sympathizers, and 


 demonstrating American good will in the Muslim world with 


 actions rather than words.



 ''Think about Hezbollah or al Qaida affiliates or . . . 


 (Muqtada Sadr in Iraq). What do they do? They don't stand on 


 street corners only getting out proselytizing. They set up 


 clinics, they give out food. That's their way of getting 


 in,'' he said.



 ''If you look at the (U.S. response to the) tsunami, to the 


 earthquake in Pakistan, the earthquake in Iran--that's when 


 we got the biggest spike,'' he said. ''Some of the things 


 that have given us the greatest return are not the things we 


 intended.''



 The Bush administration's emphasis on democracy building in 


 the region is necessary, he said, but likely to fail if the 


 ''kindling'' is not addressed.



 ''I do think you have to address the regimes. But I would 


 say that the second-tier efforts, removing kindling (is more 


 important). It's not just about notions, however justified, 


 of democracy alone. It's more broadly about (developing a) 


 healthy society, a civil society and addressing grievances.'' 


 Moreover, what the United States considers a democracy may 


 have to change if democracy is to be embraced in the Muslim 


 world.



 ''We often ask the question... is Islam compatible with 


 democracy? But we never question the other side, taking the 


 religion as a given and seeing how flexible democracy is,'' 


 he said. ''We pay lip service to the fact that (Arab 


 democracies are) not going to look like us. But I think we 


 very rarely say we ought to revisit what a democracy is, and 


 what role religion can play in it,'' he said. ''If we do that 


 we might be more flexible, and there might be different 


 approaches that might be successful.''



 He is disturbed that pundits characterize the war on 


 terrorism as a clash of civilizations. ''That feeds our 


 adversaries,'' he said. ''The reality is I don't see this as 


 a (rift) between Islam or between the East and West. It's a 


 horizontal (split) within civilizations,'' he said.









Analysis: Iraq out of Time, Needs Troops















(By Pamela Hess)




 Washington, Dec. 15.--A leading U.S. military analyst is 


 advocating the addition of some 30,000 U.S. forces to Iraq, 


 with a new mission: to protect the Iraqi people.



 Frederick Kagan, a former instructor at West Point and now 


 a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, 


 believes his plan to add seven Army brigade combat teams and 


 Marine regiments to Baghdad and Anbar province early next 


 year could establish security in Baghdad by the fall of 2007. 


 While much of the focus in Washington is on increasing the 


 pace of American training of Iraqi security forces who will 


 eventually take on the bulk of the fighting, Kagan argues the 


 United States and Iraq no longer has that luxury of time.



 ''Iraq has reached a critical point. The strategy of 


 relying on a political process to eliminate the insurgency 


 has failed. Rising sectarian violence threatens to break 


 America's will to fight. This violence will destroy the Iraqi 


 government, armed forces, and people if it is not rapidly 


 controlled,'' he writes. ''Violence is accelerating beyond 


 the Iraqis'' ability to control it.''



 The surge in troops, if it succeeds in turning around the 


 deteriorating situation in Iraq, would pave the way for a 


 major troop withdrawal in 18 to 24 months, he says.



 But the surge would also mean an increase in battle 


 casualties, now nearing 3,000.



 ''Short-term increase in casualties is not a sign of 


 failure ... As troops actively secure the population the 


 enemy will surge its attacks on coalition troops and Iraqi 


 civilians,'' Kagan writes.



 He envisions a four-phase strategy in 2007: surging forces 


 into Iraq by March; preparing for ''clear and hold'' 


 operations by June; clear critical areas by September; and 


 then transition control of them to Iraqi forces.



 ''These forces, partnered with Iraqi units, will clear 


 critical Sunni and mixed Sunni-Shiite neighborhoods, 


 primarily on the west side of the city. After the 


 neighborhoods have been cleared, U.S. soldiers and Marines, 


 again partnered with Iraqis, will remain behind to maintain 


 security,'' Kagan writes in a new paper for AEI.



 The clear and hold operation would be closely linked to a 


 U.S. military led-reconstruction package with a fully funded 


 plan in place prior to the battles so they can immediately 


 pick up trash and get water and electricity working, area by 


 area.



 ''Even large reconstruction efforts are cheap compared to 


 continued fighting,'' he notes. It's an expansion of the 


 tactics used with some success in Tall 'Afar and Fallujah but 


 far more ambitious. Those towns were a fraction of the size 


 of Baghdad and relatively isolated, making them easier to 


 surround, empty and conduct house-to-house searches. Their 


 size and location also allowed the return of residents, and 


 potential fighters, to be managed.



 Five U.S. brigades are currently operating in Baghdad along 


 with six Iraqi brigades. In Anbar province, there are two 


 Marine regimental combat teams and one U.S. Army brigade 


 combat team. Together, they comprise just 52,500 combat 


 forces in a total U.S. deployment of about 140,000. The 


 remainder are serving in combat service support, 


 headquarters, intelligence and other non-battle functions. 


 Kagan's plan would bring the number of combat troops to 


 84,000 by September 2007, nearly a 50 percent increase in 


 combat power.



 Kagan is not alone in advocating a troop increase. Senior 


 military officers who spoke to UPI on condition of anonymity 


 say that having sufficient troops in Iraq to actually quell 


 the insurgency and combat sectarian violence is the one 


 approach the United States has not yet tried. Since the 


 insurgency began in earnest in November 2003, U.S. forces 


 have been playing catch-up, never having quite enough troops 


 to both carry out




 aggressive offensive operations and to maintain a daily 


 presence in the areas already under control. That has 


 resulted in a nationwide ''whack-a-mole'' strategy, they 


 said.



 When they have come down hard on one area, the enemy has 


 squeezed out to somewhere they are not. The training of more 


 than 300,000 Iraqi army and police has provided a ''holding'' 


 force but their performance has been uneven at best, and in 


 the case of the police, sometimes counterproductive. And the 


 intervening three years has similarly allowed the insurgent 


 and militia forces to grow as well, diminishing the impact 


 Iraqi forces can have.



 The answer, according to Kagan, is a dramatic increase in 


 the number of U.S. troops assigned to protecting Iraq's 


 civilian population.



 To get the number of U.S. troops up, Kagan proposes to 


 accelerate the deployment of the next four brigades, now 


 scheduled from April to February. The remaining BCTs would be 


 extended from a 12-month deployment to 15 months. The Marine 


 regiments would be extended from seven months to 12. That 


 would bring the American troops presence in Baghdad up to 


 nine or 10 BCTs, each with about 4,000 soldiers. The plan 


 would also result in two additional Marine regimental combat 


 teams in Anbar province.



 Kagan would not pull forces from outside of Baghdad into 


 that fight, Rather, he would leave them in place to continue 


 their daily operations--preventing insurgents and sectarian 


 militias from establishing a foothold in areas previously 


 secured from them.



 This military version of ''robbing Peter to pay Paul'' has 


 been played out repeatedly throughout the war, commanders 


 have complained. When they have stabilized an area, troops 


 get called on to put out a fire somewhere else--leaving a 


 security vacuum where they came from and inviting new 


 violence.



 If the clear and hold plan is carried out in Baghdad in 


 2007, Kagan writes that in 2008 the U.S. military could help 


 disarm Shiite militias, stabilize Anbar or northern Iraq, 


 and/or continue the training mission. Kagan concedes the 


 potential responses to an invigorated American offensive in 


 Iraq, outlining each factions' likely responses, and the most 


 dangerous short- and long-term scenarios, along with a plan 


 to counter them.



 Kagan also says the U.S. Army and Marine Corps must add at 


 least 60,000 troops to their pay roll in the next two years 


 and the increase must be permanent.



 It is ''vital to offset increased demand on the ground 


 forces in Iraq, and vital to provide strategic options in 


 many scenarios beyond Iraq,'' he writes.



 Army Chief of Staff Gen. Peter Schoomaker said Thursday 


 that the most the Army can hope to recruit above the 80,000 a 


 year it does now is 6,000 to 7,000 additional soldiers. 


 Marine Corps officials believe they can add another 2,000 


 additional recruits annually. However, the Army and Marine 


 Corps could likely retain far greater numbers of troops than 


 they currently do. Re-enlistments and extensions are at all 


 time highs, particularly among combat units deployed to Iraq.



 Schoomaker also warned that if he does not get additional 


 troops, and more freedom to use reservists to fill out the 


 force, the Army is in danger of ''breaking.''



 Kagan says his plan will not break the Army: only four 


 units would be accelerated to Iraq, and they were tapped to 


 go anyway. Moreover, no unit will have less than a year 


 between deployments under his plan.



 ''Losing now will certainly break the force,'' Kagan 


 writes.



 Kagan could not be immediately reached for comment. An AEI 


 spokeswoman said he was at a White House briefing.


As I mentioned, she has written a series of these articles. She went 
to Iraq, as she explained this morning on Washington Journal, to look 
at the question of how is it that our troops in Iraq feel they have 
such an important mission, feel they are accomplishing things. She 
mentioned that this was her third, I believe, visit to Iraq, and she 
said, this time, more than either of the two visits, she felt like our 
troops were more engaged, working more closely with the Iraqi people, 
felt a greater kinship with the Iraqi people, and felt like they were 
making progress.

Her purpose was to say, well, this must be just a myth. It must not 
be true that our troops are really feeling like they are accomplishing 
something; they are just parroting words given to them from the 
commanders and higher up.

But her pitch this morning was that is not true; that in point of 
fact, the thing that has changed was in part the attitude of our troops 
and the enhanced ability of our troops who have now been deployed there 
two or three times to speak Arabic, but also that the attitude of the 
Iraqi people has changed. She talked about how the Iraqi people are now 
rising up, resisting the violence, fighting back on their own and 
engaged in this battle in a way in which she had not seen before.

I believe this supplemental is extremely important to our Nation. I 
believe our confrontation with radical, militant Islam is the single 
most important confrontation we will face probably in my lifetime. I 
think back about the threat to world peace posed by communism, which is 
the threat I grew up with as a child, and I have to evaluate that 
threat versus the threat we now face with radical, militant Islam.

I have begun to read some of the writings on radical, militant Islam 
and what they want. I would commend to anyone who cares about this 
issue a book by a Yale professor by the name of Mary Habeck. Professor 
Habeck came and spoke, I think you know, to the bipartisan caucus on 
anti-terrorism and I heard her. I was very impressed. She has written a 
book called, ''Knowing the Enemy,'' and that book goes into detail on 
how the radical Islamic wing, the jihadi wing of the Islam faith, 
strays from the Koran, and how at times they have twisted the Koran, at 
least in her opinion, and have come to this conclusion that they must 
reestablish the caliphate, they must stay at a constant state of war, 
they want to not only reestablish the caliphate in its historical 
areas, but then expand it and at least require that every nation in the 
world be under the domination of radical Islam; and that everybody 
there has to at least be offered the opportunity to live under radical 
Islam. Then the question of whether or not they have to kill you if you 
do not remains on the table, but it is an excellent book, and I would 
urge that people read it. The other book that I would say people should 
read is a book called, ''America Alone,'' by Mark Steyn.

Again, I think the challenge we face from radical Islam and its 
confrontation of Western society, ours here in America, Japan, Germany, 
France, Italy, Britain, is the single most important confrontation, 
single most important challenge of our lifetimes for us, for our 
children, for our grandchildren.

I understand the frustration of my colleagues who want us to get out 
and get out as quickly as we can. It breaks my heart. I have been there 
three times. I have seen grave errors made in the conduct of the war. I 
am troubled by the conduct of the war. I am embarrassed by our conduct 
of the war at times, but that does not answer the fundamental question. 
The fundamental question is: Can we leave? If we leave, does the war 
stop? If we leave, does it instead get worse?

I would suggest that if we leave Iraq, if we decide we cannot win 
there now, if we follow what the current draft supplemental proffered 
this week by the other side says and say in August of 2008, we are out 
no matter what, I think things do not get better. I would suggest that 
what happens is that the radical jihadi now in Iraq seeking to kill us 
there simply pick up their stakes, jump in a pick-up truck and head to 
Afghanistan, and suddenly we are fighting the same fight in 
Afghanistan.

I heard my colleagues on the floor and in the statement say we should 
be fighting in Afghanistan, and that is a serious fight, and the 
Taliban and the insurgency are re-arising in their battle and their 
challenge to us. I agree with them about that. But the problem is, what 
have we gained if we just moved the fight from Iraq to Afghanistan? And 
are we willing to stand up to the radical jihadi somewhere? Because if 
we do not do it in Iraq, I would submit we are going to have to do it 
somewhere.

I would also suggest that before we abandon Iraq, we need to think 
about what it is we owe to the people of that society. Having torn down 
their institutions, having torn down their government, their police and 
their army, what do we owe them to help them rebuild those institutions 
before we walk away?

And so I think the supplemental is very important. I think it is 
going to get a lot of discussion and debate. I personally believe that 
as long as you leave an arbitrary cut-off date in it that says we will 
be out of there as of a date certain, it is something I personally 
cannot support; and I would hope the American people would look at what 
jeopardy that places us in.

I think you also hear General Petraeus say, look, I just started this 
job. I need the troops to be able to accomplish it. There are early 
signs we are making progress. Give me a chance.

I think that is a plea that I hope we do not abandon. I hope that it 
is a plea


we acknowledge. I would agree that we cannot leave it totally open-
ended.

I thank the gentleman for allowing me some time on this point. I 
thought it was worth my time to cite this reporter, Pamela Hess, and 
talk about her because she has just been there. She went with the 
purpose of trying to find out are things different, and at least as I 
heard her comments on Washington Journal this morning, she said things 
are different, progress is being made, and the Iraqi people are kicking 
in. She cited vastly better than I can examples of that.