---
---

# REPUBLICAN FRESHMEN THIRD QUARTERLY REPORT TO THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `ed0965eece55476ff0325890b63e41e4`
`Mr. BROUN of Georgia — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. BROUN of Georgia. I would like to thank Congressman McCarthy for 
yielding me time to speak on the floor this afternoon.

This afternoon, it was reported that Iranian President Mahmoud 
Ahmadinejad sought permission from the City of New York and the United 
States Secret Service to visit Ground Zero, the site of the September 
11 attacks. This is an outrage, that this person would request to go to 
the place that he and his terrorist brethren have caused such 
destruction in this country.

President Ahmadinejad is coming to the United Nations as the 
representative of a country, Iran, that the State Department has 
declared the ''world's most active state sponsor of terrorism.'' His 
presence at Ground Zero would represent a slap in the face not only to 
those who were lost in the attacks on September 11, 2001, and to their 
families, but to all Americans.

Make no mistake about it, Iran is a rogue nation that views America 
and the Americans as their enemy. General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker just spent a significant amount of their time recently here on 
the Hill detailing the Iranian efforts to come against our troops and 
kill our boys and ladies in Iraq. To allow Ahmadinejad to abuse his 
status as a diplomat to visit this site would send a signal that we 
fail to take the threat that he and his country bring to this Nation 
and to our people in a serious manner.

What kind of man is Ahmadinejad? Please let me read you some of the 
public policy positions as compiled by the Jerusalem Post.

He denies the Holocaust. ''We ask the West to remove what they 
created 60 years ago; and if they do not listen to our recommendations, 
then the Palestinian nation and other nations will eventually do this 
for them.''

''The real Holocaust is what is happening in Palestine, where the 
Zionists avail themselves of the fairy tale of Holocaust as blackmail 
and justification for killing children and women and making innocent 
people homeless.''

''The West claims that more than 6 million Jews were killed in World 
War II, and to compensate for that they established and support Israel. 
If it is true that the Jews were killed in Europe, why should Israel be 
established in the East, in Palestine?''

''If you have burned the Jews, why don't you give a piece of Europe, 
the United States, Canada, or Alaska to Israel? My question is, if you 
have committed this huge crime, why should the innocent nation of 
Palestine pay for this crime?''

His quotes about threats against Israel: ''Anybody who recognizes 
Israel will burn in the fire of the Islamic nation's fury.''

''Remove Israel before it is too late, and save yourself from the 
fury of regional nations.''

''The skirmishes in the occupied land are part of a war of destiny. 
The outcome of hundreds of years of war will be defined in Palestinian 
land. As the Imam said, Israel must be wiped off the map.''

''If the West does not support Israel, this regime will be toppled. 
As it has lost its raison d'etre, Israel will be annihilated.''

''Israel is a tyrannical regime that will one day be destroyed.''

''Israel is a rotten, dried tree that will be annihilated in one 
storm.''

Late this afternoon, this very afternoon, the New York Police 
Department indicated that they would not issue a permit to Ahmadinejad. 
I hope they stand firm on this decision, and I applaud that decision. 
However, we should go one step further. This despotic, Holocaust 
denying madman should not be allowed in this country. I call upon the 
State Department and the President to do the right thing; refuse 
Ahmadinejad an entry visa.