# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `ed1dc123dcba162f6544d54769736587`
`Mr. SKELTON — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Today, we as a Congress perform a duty in compliance with the 
Constitution of the United States. Article I, section 8 states that 
Congress shall have the power to provide for the common defense and 
general welfare of the United States. It also provides for and 
maintaining a Navy and making all rules for the government and 
regulation of land and naval forces.

So today I rise in support of H.R. 5136, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2011. I'm pleased to be joined here 
today with my friend, my colleague, the ranking member, Buck McKeon. 
Buck's been a true partner in this effort to bring forward a bipartisan 
bill that addresses the national security needs of our country.

The committee passed the Defense Authorization Bill by a vote of 59-
0.

Our Nation's been at war for nearly a decade. Our troops are worn, 
and their families are tired, and the Nation recognizes their 
sacrifices. The bill addresses many of the concerns that they've 
raised.

I'm proud that this bill is a result of the committee's engagement 
with the military community and our citizens to determine what issues 
were important to them as we developed the programs and policies that 
are included in this bill.

This bill authorizes $567 billion in budget authority for the 
Department of Defense and the national security programs of the 
Department of Energy. The bill also authorizes $159 billion to support 
ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan during fiscal year 
2011. These amendments are essentially equal to the President's budget 
request for items in the jurisdiction of the Armed Services Committee.

H.R. 5136 continues Congress' deep commitment to supporting U.S. 
servicemembers and their families and to provide the necessary 
resources to keep America safe. The bill provides our military 
personnel a 1.9 percent pay raise, which is an increase of a half a 
percent above the President's request.

The bill also includes a number of initiatives to support military 
families, including extending health care coverage to adult dependent 
children up to the age of 26. We also have the single most 
comprehensive legislative proposal to address sexual assault in the 
military.

The bill also fully funds the President's budget request for military 
training, equipment, maintenance and the facilities upkeep, which 
continues the committee's efforts to address readiness shortfalls that 
have developed over previous years.



The bill provides an increase of $12 billion above the fiscal year 
2010 budget for operations and maintenance, including $345 million to 
fully fund the


first increment of construction necessary to modernize Department of 
Defense schools. There is 13.6 billion for training of an all active-
duty Reserve force to increase readiness; an increase of $500 million 
for day-to-day operations of Army bases, which is a direct impact on 
our soldiers. It also provides an increase of $700 million above the 
administration's budget to address the equipment shortfalls on National 
Guard and Reserve units.

The war in Afghanistan is a critical mission that is essential to our 
national security. To ensure that our strategies in both Iraq and 
Afghanistan are effective and achieve the intended goals within well-
defined timelines, the bill requires the President to assess U.S. 
efforts and regularly report on progress, including providing timelines 
by which he plans to achieve his goals.

It also extends the authorization of the Pakistan Counterinsurgency 
Fund through fiscal year 2011 to allow commanders to help Pakistan 
quickly and more effectively go after terrorist safe havens. The bill 
also provides $1.6 billion for Coalition Support Funds to reimburse 
nations that are providing logistical, military, and other support to 
our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.

On Iraq, the bill upholds Congress's responsibility to provide 
oversight to the process of drawing down the mountain of material 
purchased, transported, and built up in Iraq at tremendous expense to 
the taxpayer.

In the area of nonproliferation, the bill continues our focus on 
keeping weapons of mass destruction and related materials out of the 
hands of terrorists and strengthens our nonproliferation programs and 
activities. The bill increases funding for the Department of Energy's 
nonproliferation programs and adds funding to continue the 
administration's plan to secure and remove all known vulnerable nuclear 
materials that could be used for weapons.

There are other good things in this bill, which my colleagues will 
cover.

I want to recognize the members of the Armed Services Committee for 
their contributions in making this bill one of the best that the 
committee has put forward in recent years.

I also, Mr. Chair, want to brag about the wonderful staff that we 
have on the Armed Services Committee. They make it all work well.

Mr. Chair, our committee has been and will continue to be strong 
proponents of our Nation's security and the people that it defends. We 
will continue to do what is right and necessary to ensure that our 
country is safe and secure. We must continue to work with the President 
to ensure that our citizens are safe and our Nation's security is 
paramount.

I urge my colleagues to support our troops and their families and 
vote for the defense authorization bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.