---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `ed1d9212104e6d43563933b4a399aaac`
`Mr. JONES — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman from Ohio, 
first, for presenting this resolution and, secondly, for fighting for 
so long to get us to have this debate. I want to say to Mr. Berman, 
thank you for agreeing to let this be debated.

I want to start by saying that Peggy Noonan has called for this 
debate in ''A 'Necessary' War?'' I want to read this: ''So far, oddly, 
most of the debate over Afghanistan has taken place among journalists 
and foreign policy professionals.'' All of them have been honest in 
their opinions about the war in Afghanistan. But when you really look 
at the facts, nobody elected these people to debate the war. 
''Washington has to get serious, and the American people have a right 
to know the facts and options.''







 [From the Wall Street Journal, Oct. 10, 2009]

A 'Necessary' War? The President and Congress, Distracted, Have Left a 

















Void














 (By Peggy Noonan)




 So far, oddly, most of the debate over Afghanistan has 


 taken place among journalists and foreign-policy 


 professionals. All power to them: They've been fighting it 


 out on op-ed pages and in journals for months now, in many 


 cases with a moral seriousness, good faith, and sense of 


 protectiveness toward the interests of the United States that 


 is, actually, moving. But nobody elected them. We need a 


 truly national debate.


So thank you both for allowing this debate to take place today. But I 
join my friends in saying that it's time to bring an end to this war. I 
have Camp Lejeune Marine Base in my district, Cherry Point Marine Air 
Station, and Seymour Johnson Air Force Base. Brave men and women. God 
bless them all.

I want to start my comments and would like to share this with you 
from the Marine Corps Times, March 1, 2010: ''Left to Die. They called 
for help. 'Negligent' Army leadership refused--and abandoned them on 
the battlefield.'' Four died, handcuffed to do their job for this 
country. That's awfully sad to me.

I would like to read also from the Marine Corps Times: ''Caution 
killed my son. Marine families blast 'suicidal' tactics in 
Afghanistan.'' I would like to read the words from a father whose son 
died for this country. I would like to read the words of this man 
because he served in the Marine Corps, a sergeant himself. His 
frustration about how his son died because he was not helped led him to 
write to Admiral Mullen and also Senator Collins. This is his response 
back to the letters from Admiral Mullen and his response back to Susan 
Collins:

''Sergeant Bernard said the letter is 'smoke and mirrors' and 
overlooks his consistent concern: A counterinsurgency strategy won't 
work as long as Afghanistan is filled with warring tribes that have no 
empathy for the United States and its way of life.''

He further stated in his letter to Senator Collins, ''I have already 
spoken to your office,'' and he further said, ''Don't let him,'' 
meaning Admiral Mullen, ''spin this crap.''

I'm quoting him now. These are not my words. This is what he said to 
Admiral Mullen. This is a father whose son died for this country. I 
repeat that:

''Don't let him spin this crap,'' Bernard said. ''There's no 
indication that Afghanistan has changed anywhere. Our mission should be 
very, very simple: Chase and kill the enemy.''

Well, I just gave you two examples of where we're not really fighting 
the war in Afghanistan. Because why in the world would those marines 
have been killed who were asking for cover, and yet the Army said, No, 
we can't give you cover because of our policy--and our policy is: We 
don't want to kill civilians. But as Sergeant Bernard said, and he's 
right--I've never been to war, let me be honest about it, but he has 
been to war and knows that war is ugly. It's mean. And therefore we're 
saying to our troops we're going to ''handcuff'' you, and we're going 
to do what we can to protect those in Afghanistan, but you might have 
to give your life and you couldn't even fire a gun. That is not what we 
should be doing in Afghanistan.

Last point, the book that's called ''The Three Trillion Dollar War,'' 
it is a book written by the economist Joe Stiglitz, and he says in the 
book that to take care of the wounded from Afghanistan and Iraq for the 
next 25 years, a minimum cost of $2 trillion.

I want to end with this story: Three years ago, three years ago, 
Congressman Gene Taylor and Walter Jones, myself, went to Walter Reed 
to visit the wounded, as many Members of Congress in both parties do. 
And we go into a room where a young man, 19 years old, had been shot in 
the neck, sitting in a wheelchair, will never walk again. As Gene and I 
speak to him and tell him we thank him so much for his service, his mom 
comes in and she looks at us like a deer in headlights.


Scared. She should be scared. She doesn't know what the future is for 
her son.

And then she said to Gene Taylor and myself, after we introduced 
ourselves, Can you guarantee me that this government will take care of 
my son 40 years from now? He is 19 years old.

And one of us said to her, This country should take care of your son 
40 years from now. But you know what I would tell her today? I'm not 
sure we can take care of your son.

We need to understand we can't police the world anymore. It's time 
that we protect ourselves from the enemy, the terrorists. But going 
around the world and trying to police the world doesn't work anymore.

So I want to thank the gentleman for giving me this time. And I join 
you in this resolution and hope that these debates will continue and 
continue so we will meet our constitutional responsibility and we will 
be able to say one day to that 19-year-old soldier or marine: We will 
take care of you 40 years from now. Because right now we cannot do it.