# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `ed1f5ba0778b25a014f2452da09d1c8a`
`Mr. LEAHY — 10 June 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today the Senate will confirm three more 
nominations for lifetime appointments to the Federal bench.


The first nomination we consider is that of Mark Davis of Virginia to 
fill a vacancy in the Eastern District of Virginia, and I commend the 
Virginia Senators on this nomination. After years of controversial 
nominations, Senators Warner and Webb have worked successfully with the 
White House on a series of recent nominations for district and circuit 
court seats, including that of Judge G. Steven Agee of Virginia, who 
was confirmed to a seat on the Fourth Circuit last month.

I was pleased to accommodate Senator Bond's request that we proceed 
promptly in committee to consider the nominations of David Kays and 
Stephen Limbaugh to vacancies in the Western and Eastern Districts of 
Missouri. Both nominees have the support of Senator McCaskill. I wish 
Justice Ronnie White, who went on to become Missouri's first African-
American chief justice, had received similar consideration when 
President Clinton nominated him to the Eastern District of Missouri. 
Instead, more than 2 years after he was nominated, and 2/1/2/ months 
after he was reported out of the Judiciary Committee for a second time, 
his nomination was voted down on a party line vote, not a single 
Republican Senator voting to confirm him. I also recall many of 
President Clinton's judicial nominees who were stalled because of 
anonymous Republican objections to their politics or their practice 
area. One of the two nominees from Missouri that we consider today is 
Rush Limbaugh's cousin. A similar lineage would have resulted in a 
pocket filibuster when the Senate was controlled by a Republican 
majority during the Clinton administration. So today, in contrast to 
the treatment of President Clinton's nominees, we proceed to consider 
these two nominations.

I noted last week the sudden concern of the minority leader for 
district court nominations. Perhaps he did not have a chance to see my 
statement from earlier in the week in which I noted that with 
Republican cooperation, we have the opportunity this work period 
confirm five nominees already reported favorably by the Judiciary 
Committee? Of course, today we would have more than those five 
nominations on the Senate's Executive Calendar had Republicans not 
stalled this President's nominations of Judge Helene White and Ray 
Kethledge to the Sixth Circuit, and the nomination of Stephen Murphy to 
the Eastern District of Michigan. As I said last week, with cooperation 
from across the aisle, the Senate is poised to have confirmed four 
circuit court judges and 11 district court judges before the Fourth of 
July recess, confirming a total of 15 lifetime appointments.

I recall Senator Specter's frustration when he was chairman with a 
Republican majority at the end of the last Congress, and Republican 
holds prevented the confirmation of 14 district court nominations. 
Democrats on the Judiciary Committee had worked hard to expedite the 
nominations at the end of the last Congress. Many of them were for 
vacancies deemed judicial emergencies, including three in one Federal 
district in Michigan where several judges of senior status--one over 90 
years old--continued to carry heavy caseloads to ensure that justice 
was administered in that district. Now, after the successful efforts of 
the Senators from Michigan in conjunction with the White House, I hope 
Republicans will not object to filling three more judicial emergency 
vacancies in Michigan.

The complaints by the minority leader and his party about district 
court nominations ring as hollow as their complaints that Senate 
Democrats did not make best efforts to meet the goal he and the 
majority leader set of moving three circuit court nominations by 
Memorial Day. As at the end of the last Congress with those 14 district 
court nominations, Republicans resisted expediting the committee's 
consideration of the Michigan nominations before Memorial Day. They 
badgered the nominees, and sent scores of written follow up questions. 
At the May 7 hearing, the Republicans chose to complain that the 
committee was moving too fast, before the committee had received 
updated ABA ratings on the nominations. They pressed Judge White with 
scores of questions, failing to pose those same questions to Mr. 
Kethledge, a candidate for the same circuit. They demanded an extremely 
rare closed hearing to further question Judge White. Given their 
actions and their resistance to the White House's package of 
nominations--nominations made by this President--they made it 
impossible for the Committee to consider and report the Michigan 
nominations before the Memorial Day recess.



We have now received the updated ABA rating for Judge White's 
nomination. She received a well qualified rating. That did not come as 
any surprise. She has served ably on the Michigan state appellate 
courts and acquired additional experience in the decade since she was 
nominated by President Clinton and the Republican Senate majority 
refused to consider her nomination.

Ultimately, the Republican-led Senate left open five vacancies on the 
Fourth Circuit and four on the Sixth Circuit. With the Agee 
confirmation last month, we have already reduced vacancies on the 
Fourth Circuit to less than there were at the end of the Clinton 
administration, when a Republican-controlled Senate had refused to 
consider any nominees to that circuit during the last 2 years of the 
Clinton Presidency. If Republicans cooperate in considering the 
Michigan nominees, we will have filled every vacancy in the Sixth 
Circuit. Overall, when Republicans ran the Senate and were stalling 
consideration of President Clinton's nominees, circuit vacancies rose 
from 11 to 26, and it reached 32 during the transition to President 
Bush. We are in position to reduce circuit vacancies by three-quarters, 
to an historic low.

In contrast to the Republican Senate majority that used the Clinton 
years to more than double circuit court vacancies around the country, 
the Senate has already reduced circuit court vacancies by almost two-
thirds, We are poised to complete Senate consideration of the two Sixth 
Circuit nominations. If the Republican minority allows that progress, 
yet another circuit will be without any vacancies. In fact, we would 
reduce the total number of circuit court vacancies across the Nation to 
single digits for the first time in decades.

If instead we focus on the controversial nominations as the 
Republicans want, we run the risk of embroiling the committee and the 
Senate in months of debate, foreclosing the opportunity to make 
progress where we can. We saw what happened with our last contentious 
nomination--that of Leslie Southwick. It took 5/1/2/ months from the 
time of the hearing to his confirmation.

The minority leader and the Wall Street Journal continue to point to 
the confirmation of 15 circuit judges in 1999 and 2000. Sometimes, the 
number is 17. Of course, their mythical ''statistical average'' of 
selected years ignores the crises the Republicans had created by not 
considering circuit nominees in 1996, 1997 and 1998, the fact that they 
refused to confirm a single circuit nominee during the entire 1996 
session, the fact that they returned 17 circuit court nominees without 
action to the White House in 2000, the public criticism of Chief 
Justice Rehnquist that helped moderate their stalling and the fact that 
they more than doubled circuit court vacancies while pocket 
filibustering Clinton nominees.

The minority leader only reaches this mythical statistical by taking 
advantage of the high confirmation numbers of Democratic-led Senates 
confirming the nominees of President Reagan and the first President 
Bush. They ignore their own record of doubling vacancies during the 
Clinton administration. They do not like to recall that during the 1996 
session, when a Republican majority controlled the Senate during a 
Presidential election year, they refused to confirm any circuit court 
judges at all--not one. Their practice of pocket filibustering 
President Clinton's judicial nominees led Chief Justice Rehnquist, 
hardly a Democratic partisan, to criticize them publicly. Even he was 
appalled by the actions of the Republican Senate majority. In his 1996 
Year-End Report on the Federal Judiciary, he wrote:




 Because the number of judges confirmed in 1996 was low in 


 comparison to the number confirmed in preceding years, the 


 vacancy rate is beginning to climb. When the 104th Congress 


 adjourned in 1996, 17 new judges had been appointed and 28 


 nominations had not been acted upon. Fortunately, a 


 dependable corps of senior judges contributes significantly 


 to easing the impact of unfilled judgeships. It is hoped that 


 the Administration and Congress will continue to recognize 


 that filling judicial vacancies is crucial to the fair and 


 effective administration of justice.


When that shot across the bow did not lead the Republican Senate 
majority to reverse course, Chief Justice Rehnquist spoke up, again, in 
his 1997 Year-End Report on the Federal Judiciary. It was a salvo from 
a Republican Chief Justice critical of the Republican Senate 
leadership:




 Currently, 82 of the 846 Article III judicial offices in 


 the Federal Judiciary--almost one out of every ten--are 


 vacant. Twenty-six of the vacancies have been in existence 


 for 18 months or longer and on that basis constitute what are 


 called ''judicial emergencies.'' In the Court of Appeals for 


 the Ninth Circuit, the percentage of vacancies is 


 particularly troubling, with over one-third of its seats 


 empty.



 Judicial vacancies can contribute to a backlog of cases, 


 undue delays in civil cases, and stopgap measures to shift 


 judicial personnel where they are most needed. Vacancies 


 cannot remain at such high levels indefinitely without 


 eroding the quality of justice that traditionally has been 


 associated with the Federal Judiciary. Fortunately for the 


 Judiciary, a dependable corps of senior judges has 


 contributed significantly to easing the impact of unfilled 


 judgeships.


It was only after the scorching criticism by a Republican Chief 
Justice that the Republican Senate majority modified its approach in 
order to allow some of the nominations that had been held back for 
years to finally proceed. Having built up scores of vacancies, some 
were allowed to be filled while the Republican Senate majority 
carefully kept vacant circuit court positions to be filled by President 
Clinton's successor. It is in that context that Republican claims of 
magnanimity must be seen for what it was. It is in that context that 
the eight circuit confirmations in 2000 must be evaluated while the 
Republican Senate majority returned 17 circuit nominations to President 
Clinton at the end of that session without action.

In stark contrast, the Democratic Senate majority has worked steadily 
and steadfastly to lower vacancies and make progress, and we have.

I have placed the two Michigan Sixth Circuit nominations on the 
agenda for the committee's business meeting this week. With cooperation 
from the Republicans, we can consider and vote on these nominations at 
that time. That should provide the Senate with the opportunity to 
consider them before the Fourth of July recess, bringing to four the 
number of circuit court nominees confirmed this year. Four would meet 
the Republican average for 1996 and 2000, and beat their total in the 
1996 session by four.

The history is clear. On June 1, 2000, when a Republican Senate 
majority was considering the judicial nominees of a Democratic 
President in a Presidential election year, there were 66 judicial 
vacancies. Twenty were circuit court vacancies, and 46 were district 
court vacancies. Those vacancies were the result of years of Republican 
pocket filibusters of judicial nominations. This year, by comparison 
there are just 47 total vacancies with only 11 circuit vacancies and 36 
district court vacancies. After today, there will be just 44 total 
vacancies. If we can continue to make progress this month, the current 
vacancies could be reduced to fewer than 40, with only 9 circuit court 
vacancies and 30 district court vacancies.

When Republicans were busy pocket filibustering Clinton nominees, 
Federal judicial vacancies grew to more than 100, with more than 30 
circuit vacancies.

When I became Chairman in the summer of 2001, we quickly--and 
dramatically--lowered vacancies. The 100 nominations we confirmed in 
only 17 months, while working with a most uncooperative White House, 
reduced vacancies by 45 percent.

After the four intervening years of a Republican Senate majority, 
vacancies remained about level.

It is the Democratic Senate majority that has again worked hard to 
lower them in this Congress. We have gone from more than 110 vacancies 
to less than 50 and are heading to less than 40. With respect to 
Federal circuit court vacancies, we have reversed course from the days 
during which the Republican Senate majority more than doubled circuit 
vacancies. It bears repeating--circuit vacancies have been reduced by 
almost two-thirds and have not been this low since 1996, when the 
Republican tactics to slow judicial confirmations began in earnest.

Consider for a moment the numbers: After another productive month, 
just 9 of the 178 authorized circuit court judgeships will remain 
vacant--just 9--a vacancy rate down from 18 percent to just 5 percent. 
With 168 active appellate judges and 104 senior status judges serving 
on the Federal Courts of Appeals, there are 272 circuit court judges. I 
expect that is the most in our history.



The President has not nominated anyone to 16 of the current judicial 
vacancies. He has refused since 2004 to work with the California 
Senators on a successor to Judge Trott on the Ninth Circuit. The 
district court vacancies without nominees span from those that arose in 
Mississippi and Michigan in 2006, to several from 2007 in Pennsylvania, 
Michigan, Indiana and the District of Columbia, to others that arose 
earlier this year in Kansas, Virginia, Washington, and several in 
Colorado and Pennsylvania.

Disputes over a handful of controversial judicial nominations have 
wasted valuable time that could be spent on the real priorities of 
every American. I have sought, instead, to make progress where we can. 
The result is the significant reduction in judicial vacancies.

In fact, our work has led to a reduction in vacancies in nearly ever 
circuit. Both the Second and Fifth Circuits had circuit-wide 
emergencies due to the multiple simultaneous vacancies during the 
Clinton years with Republicans in control of the Senate. Both the 
Second Circuit and the Fifth Circuit now are without a single vacancy. 
We have already succeeded in lowering vacancies in the Second Circuit, 
the Fourth Circuit, the Fifth Circuit, the Sixth Circuit, the Eighth 
Circuit, the Ninth Circuit, the Tenth Circuit, the Eleventh Circuit, 
the DC Circuit, and the Federal Circuit. Circuits with no current 
vacancies include the Seventh Circuit, the Eighth Circuit, the Tenth 
Circuit, the Eleventh Circuit and the Federal Circuit. When we are 
allowed to proceed with President Bush's nominations of Judge White and 
Ray Kethledge to the Sixth Circuit, it will join that list of Federal 
circuits without a single vacancy.

My approach has been consistent throughout my chairmanships during 
the Bush Presidency. The results have been positive. Last year, the 
Judiciary Committee favorably reported 40 judicial nominations to the 
Senate and all 40 were confirmed. That was more than had been confirmed 
in any of the three preceding years when a Republican chairman and 
Republican Senate majority managed the process.

Despite this progress, of course, some partisans seem determined to 
provoke an election year fight over nominations. The press accounts are 
filled with threats of Republican reprisals. The May 14 issue of Roll 
Call boasted the following headline: ''GOP Itching for Fight Over 
Judges; Reid's Pledge to Move Three Before Recess Fails to Appease 
Minority.'' Then in a recent article in The Washington Times, we read 
that the Republican fixation on judges is part of an effort to bolster 
Senator McCain's standing among conservatives. There seem to be no 
steps we could take to satisfy Senate Republicans on nominations, 
because they are using it as a partisan issue to rev up their partisan 
political base.

The Republican effort to create an issue over judicial confirmations 
is sorely misplaced. Last month we experienced the greatest rise in 
unemployment in a single month in over two decades, bringing the total 
job losses for the first 5 consecutive months of this year to over 
325,000. Americans are now facing increasing burdens from the soaring 
price of gas, high food prices, rising unemployment and a home mortgage 
foreclosure and credit crisis.

This year we have seen the worst plunge in new homes sales in two 
decades. The press reported that new home sales fell 8.5 percent in 
March, the slowest sales pace since October 1991, and the median price 
of a home sold dropped 13.3 percent compared to the previous year. That 
was the biggest year-over-year price decline in four decades. You would 
have to go back to July 1970 to find a larger decline.

Unfortunately, this bad economic news for hard-working Americans is 
nothing new under the Bush administration. During the Bush 
administration, unemployment is up more than 20 percent and trillions 
of dollars in budget surplus have been turned into trillions of dollars 
of debt, with an annual budget deficit of hundreds of millions of 
dollars. Last week, the price of oil soared to nearly $139 a barrel, 
nearly twice what it was at this time last year. When President Bush 
took office, the price of gas was $1.42 a gallon. Today, it is at an 
all-time high of over $4.00 a gallon.

According to a recent poll, 81 percent of Americans today believe 
that our country is headed in the wrong direction. It costs more than 
$1 billion a day--$1 billion a day--just to pay down the interest on 
the national debt and the massive costs generated by the disastrous war 
in Iraq. That's $365 billion this year that would be better spent on 
priorities like health care for all Americans, better schools, fighting 
crime, and treating diseases at home and abroad.

In contrast, one of the few numbers actually going down as the 
President winds down his tenure is that of judicial vacancies. Senate 
Democrats have worked hard to make progress on judicial nominations, 
lowering circuit court vacancies by almost two-thirds from the level to 
which the Republican Senate majority had built them. Any effort to turn 
attention from the real issues facing Americans to win political points 
with judicial nominations is neither prudent, nor productive.

Today we confirm three nominations for lifetime appointments. The 
first, Mark S. Davis, currently serves as Chief Judge of the Portsmouth 
Circuit Court, Third Judicial Circuit of Virginia. Prior to his 
appointment to the bench in 2003, Judge Davis worked in private 
practice at several Virginia law firms.

David Gregory Kays currently serves as the presiding circuit court 
judge for the Twenty-Sixth Judicial Circuit for the State of Missouri, 
where he has served since his first election in 2005. Previously, Judge 
Kays served as an associate circuit judge for Laclede County Circuit 
Court in Missouri and as chief assistant prosecuting attorney in 
Laclede County.

Stephen N. Limbaugh is a supreme court judge and former chief justice 
on the Supreme Court of Missouri. Previously, Judge Limbaugh was 
appointed and then elected Circuit Judge for the 32nd Judicial Circuit 
of Missouri. Before his career on the State bench, Judge Limbaugh was 
an elected prosecuting attorney and also worked in private practice.

So today we make progress, and the Senate is likely to confirm three 
additional lifetime appointments to the Federal bench. I congratulate 
the nominees and their families on their confirmation today.

Mr. President, how much time remains on either side?