---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT
## `ed20f8ccdf6a33e0b5d05822fef36340`
`Mrs. CAPPS — 22 April 2010`

---


Mrs. CAPPS. Mr. Speaker, it is with great pride that I rise today to 
express my support for the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health 
Services Act (S. 1963). This important piece of legislation is a 
tremendous step forward for our nation's bravest men and women, and the 
dedicated caregivers who support them.

This landmark legislation will strengthen health care services for 
our nation's veterans by expanding services for women veterans, 
providing resources to caregivers of wounded veterans, improving health 
care for veterans living in rural areas, providing greater access to 
mental health services, and expanding assistance to homeless veterans. 
Importantly, the legislation has received strong endorsements from 
numerous veterans groups, including the VFW, American Legion, Disabled 
American Veterans, AMVETS, the Wounded Warrior Project, and Paralyzed 
Veterans of America.

Among its many critical provisions, I am particularly proud of the 
expansion of VA services offered to the 1.8 million women who have 
courageously served their country, including child care for women 
receiving intensive mental and physical health care services, and post-
delivery health care for newborns. In addition, the expansion of mental 
health benefits, greater support for caregivers, and help for homeless 
vets will improve the lives of millions of brave men and women and 
their families.

This important legislation exemplifies the Democrat-led 111th 
Congress' unwavering commitment to our veterans and their families. 
Tremendous advances in battlefield medicine have increased the survival 
rate of wounded soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan and made it even more 
important that we constantly work to improve veterans' health care and 
its many support services.

As a nurse, I've seen first-hand the devastating consequences of 
inadequate health care for our nation's veterans. America has a sacred 
obligation to ensure these brave men and women receive the highest 
quality care and today that commitment extends to those dedicated 
individuals who care for our wounded warriors.
