---
---

# None
## `ed20ab322014e5007866871962a3bf19`
`Mr. HUNTER — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I would yield myself such time as I might consume.

Madam Chairman and my colleagues, we have general officers, flag 
officers who go over to Iraq, Afghanistan just as they have gone to 
every war theater we've fought in. They talk to their colleagues. Their 
colleagues give them the facts as they see the facts. They come back. 
They repeat those facts, the ones that they concur in, and they draw 
conclusions.

Now, they do that on dozens and dozens of talk shows and other media 
outlets throughout the United States. Some of them are for the 
operation and some of them are against the operation.

The idea, and this sounds like something we might want to adopt for 
our campaigns because I've found myself falling prey to this now and 
again, thinking what my opponent said was propaganda, what I said was 
the absolute truth. But how about the General McCaffreys who come back, 
having talked to their friends in theater, and they come back and give 
their set of facts and they say, therefore, we don't think things are 
going well, as opposed to the general who goes over and talks to 
friends in the theater, some of them the very same people, and they 
come back and say our conclusion is that things are going well.

The idea that we take this great resource, and I understand this is 
directed at general officers who go over to the theater, come back, 
appear in the American media, and give their take on where they think 
this war is going. I think that's a great asset for this country, and I 
say that, even though I've appeared many times opposite general 
officers and flag officers who have the opposite opinion from mine. But 
it's a great resource to have people that have that background and are 
able to look at the situation and come back and give their opinion 
freely.

The idea that the people who agree with the operation over there are 
giving propaganda, but the generals who have come back and said that we 
think there is a problem with this operation, and there are quite a few 
of them, that somehow their point is right on and they are precisely 
accurate and they are serving the public, that's nonsense.

You've got to let your general officers go over, make an evaluation, 
come back, give that evaluation, and we get to cross-examine them in 
committee, as we often do. We'll have people on both sides who have 
seen the same wars and the same operations and come to different 
conclusions.

The idea that we are going to label the people we don't agree with 
propagandists and the ones that agree with us are philosophers and 
statesmen is kind of a zany idea.

Let's let all of our general officers, let's look at them as a great 
resource, whether they agree with us or not. I've always said that, 
even about the folks that come back and have a totally opposite view 
from mine. I've always said this is a great resource to have retired 
military people with a long background, who go over, have these 
insights, make an evaluation and come back and give us that evaluation.

Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, we've had it on both sides on the 
Afghanistan and the Iraq operations. We've seen guys like General Zinni 
come back and give a viewpoint totally opposite the administration. Yet 
I listen to that gentleman. I greatly respect him. I think he's got a 
lot of wisdom. I disagree with him in some cases.

But the idea that we call the people who disagree with us 
propagandists and the other ones great seers and statesmen and 
philosophers doesn't make any sense.



Let's let everybody come back and exercise the right to free speech, 
and let's not have any of these inhibiting amendments.

Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.