# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `ed2381cccf67dbb6f52ac62b25ca63a6`
`Mrs. BOXER — 20 September 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. This is one where General Zinni, who criticized the war 
in Iraq, said, ''I have been called a traitor and a turncoat for 
mentioning these things.'' Outrageous--because he spoke out against the 
war in Iraq.

Then you have retired General Batiste, who lashed out on the war and 
says he gets e-mails with the heading, ''Traitor.''

My friend from Texas is taking one example, attacking an organization 
that he doesn't agree with--I am sure of that--and we are going to be 
pretty busy in the Senate if we turn into the ad police. When Senator 
Cleland was attacked we didn't have a resolution on the floor of the 
Senate. When Senator Kerry was attacked we didn't do it. When General 
Batiste was attacked we didn't do it. For General Zinni we didn't do 
it. We did speak out, and we did speak out about the ad, all of us on 
both sides of the aisle, that attacked General Petraeus. But we didn't 
have a resolution all these times.

Suddenly, now, a political organization is attacked by name in a 
resolution in something that reminds me of the old, bad days in America 
when organizations were attacked by the Government. So what we have 
done is we have written this. I thank Senators Levin and Reid and 
Durbin and other Senators who believe what we see is a trend to attack 
heroes. We say it is wrong. We don't go after one organization. We say 
it is wrong.

Let me show you the Max Cleland ad. We have the picture of Max 
Cleland in the same ad with Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein.

This is what Senator McCain had to say about that ad. Here is what he 
said:




 I've never seen anything like that ad. . . .Putting 


 pictures of Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden next to a man 


 who lost three limbs on the battlefield, it's worse than 


 disgraceful, it's reprehensible.


But we didn't come down and pass a resolution attacking the campaign 
that ran this ad. But now we have an attack on one organization. It is 
wrong. It should be defeated. This amendment I have offered is the one 
that ought to pass this Chamber.

I yield to Senator Durbin my remaining time.