# HONORING THE LIFE OF LANCE CORPORAL CAMERON BABCOCK OF PLYMOUTH,  INDIANA
## `ed250c81e0d89d8a15e59af5ab7626cc`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to remember and honor Lance 
Corporal Cameron Babcock a native son of Plymouth, Indiana, and a proud 
member of the United States Marine Corps. Cameron lost his life in a 
tragic accident at Twentynine Palms Marine Base in California. On 
Sunday, January 20, another Marine unintentionally discharged his 
privately-owned firearm at the Air Ground Combat Center. The bullet 
struck Cameron in the chest and ultimately killed this fine young 
Marine. His death was tragic and leaves us all mourning a life cut 
short. But as we mourn his life, we also remember and honor the 
richness of Cameron's life with us.

Cameron was a handsome young man who loved his family and loved his 
country. He was fun-loving and known for his bear hug. He knew the 
value of the small things that make life a joy: hanging out with 
friends, playing music, four-wheeling, and spending time with family. 
And he was successful in enjoying the many riches of life. His talent 
with the trumpet led to him to compete at the State Jazz Festival in 
2005 and his musical talent also led to his participation in the Wind 
Ensemble comprised with some of the top musicians at Plymouth High 
School. His warm personality attracted to him a wide circle of friends. 
Just days after his death, more than three hundred people belonged to 
an online group dedicated to his memory, with many reminiscing about 
the joy of having just been able to spend time with Cameron at 
Christmas.

But Cameron also knew the value of matters larger than himself: his 
lifelong dream was to join the proud ranks of the United States Marine 
Corps. Shortly after graduating from Plymouth High School in 2006, 
Cameron dove right into his lifelong dream and enlisted. His energy, 
enthusiasm, and many gifts made the Marine Corps, and this nation, 
better.

He became an infantry rifleman, excelling all through basic training. 
Before long, he proved his bravery by serving a tour of duty in Iraq. 
As a member of Kilo Company, 3rd Battalion, 7th Marine Regiment, 1st 
Marine Division, he spent several months in Ramadi, Iraq, in the 
infamous Sunni Triangle. In this dangerous setting, he continually did 
his job, and did it well. He earned the National Defense Service Medal, 
Iraqi Campaign Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Combat 
Action Ribbon, Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, and a Certificate of 
Commendation. Cameron was slated to return to Iraq in the winter of 
2008 and was ready to answer the call of duty once again.

Matt Keller, a lifelong friend, said of Cameron, ''He would always be 
there as someone you needed,'' and noted his service in Iraq as an 
example. Cameron was there when we needed him and as a nation, we 
counted on him. His absence is a sad loss to his parents Jeffery and 
Ann, his siblings, Kailey, Abigail, Hope and Samuel, and his many other 
friends and relatives.

Semper Fi. Always Faithful. Today we remember the faithful life of 
Lance Corporal Lance Babcock, and his dedicated service to his country. 
From Cameron's example, let us remember to be always faithful as well: 
always faithful to our family and friends; always faithful to this 
great nation; and always faithful to the God whose rich and all-
encompassing love now and for all eternity surrounds Cameron Babcock.
