---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ed313efd5fa2b4d25a1d1a4078956f95`
`Mr. HOLT — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this conference 
report because it recognizes the reality on the ground in Iraq. It's 
past time for the President to recognize that reality and to change 
course in Iraq.

As events in Iraq have shown repeatedly over the last 4 years, we are 
fighting an insurgency that retains the support of the Iraqi people. 
Every previous troop increase the President has implemented has failed 
to achieve its stated end: to reduce the violence and buy time for 
Iraq's government to work out a political solution to end the 
insurgency. So far, the President's latest troop surge has produced the 
same result: The insurgents have adapted, our casualties are rising, 
and Iraq's leaders are no closer to a political settlement that will 
end the fighting than they were before the ''surge'' began.

This week, the Government Accountability Office provided fresh 
evidence that events in Iraq are spiraling out of control.

GAO Comptroller General David Walker testified before the House 
Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense on April 23 that ''Despite U.S. 
and Iraqi efforts to shift a greater share of the country's defense on 
Iraqi forces, the security situation continues to deteriorate.'' Mr. 
Walker further noted that ''in November 2006, the State Department 
reported that corruption and infiltration by militias and others loyal 
to parties other than the Iraqi government have resulted in the Iraqi 
security forces being part of the problem in many areas instead of the 
solution.'' So despite multiple changes in our approach to training 
Iraq's security forces over the past 4 years, they remain just as 
sectarianly fragmented, undermanned and infiltrated by insurgents as 
when we began the process in 2003.

Additionally, Iraq's civilian government shows no signs of reforming 
itself. Indeed, as Mr. Walker noted in his testimony, ''Some Iraqi 
ministries, including the Ministries of Interior, Agriculture, Health, 
Transportation, and Tourism, are led by ministers whose allegiance is 
to political parties hostile to U.S. goals. These ministers use their 
positions to pursue partisan agendas that conflict with the goal of 
building a government that represents all ethnic groups.''

The Iraqi population continues to support the insurgents. Iraq's 
security forces remain ineffective, corrupt, and infiltrated by 
insurgents. Iraq's sectarian civil war rages. Key Iraqi Government 
ministers are actively working against stated American aims in Iraq. 
And the President of the United States wants this Congress to write him 
a blank check to continue funding this failed policy.

Fortunately, the conference report before us rejects the President's 
failed approach and holds him and the Iraqi Government accountable for 
events on the ground in this civil war-ravaged country. Passing this 
bill will send a clear message to Iraq's leaders that the patience of 
the American people has limits. Passing this bill is the best way to 
pressure Iraq's leaders to do what is necessary to end their civil war, 
because this Congress will not leave American troops in the crossfire 
between Iraq's sectarian factions year after year. I urge my colleagues 
to join me in voting for this bill.
