# FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `ed3f73421294420f9ddbb53aa014cc90`
`Mr. GREGG — 8 May 2008`

---


Mr. GREGG. The second amendment I would have offered would address 
the issue of the war on terror and our involvement with Iraq relative 
to the State of Jordan, which unfortunately has found itself incurring 
dramatic costs as a result of the overflow of the events in Iraq. 
Massive amounts of refugees are coming into Jordan. It has put an 
extraordinary burden on that country, a tremendous ally and friend of 
the United States.

So I believe we have an obligation as a nation--since we created this 
problem for Jordan in many ways by the activity in Iraq--to support 
Jordan as it tries to address the issues of the refugees. We cannot 
help them with the physical activity of the refugees there, but we can 
give them resources. I was going to increase funding to Jordan to 
accomplish that. I know Senator Inouye is also very interested in this 
issue.

In addition, money being spent by the State Department in Iraq on 
behalf of reconstruction should be significantly limited; but more 
important than that, any new money we spend for reconstruction through 
State Department accounts should be matched one-to-one by the 
Government of Iraq. I find it inconceivable for a government that runs 
a $30 billion or $40 billion surplus, on the issue of oil revenues, not 
be asked to pony up or at least match what the American taxpayers are 
spending there relative to resources to promote reconstruction in Iraq. 
So I was going to offer that amendment.

I see the Senator from South Carolina is here. I understand this time 
is correctly his. At this point, I will yield the floor. First, I also 
intended to offer an amendment in markup today which would have put a 
consular office in Tibet. I think it is critical to have a consular 
office there as the Tibetan people deal with the situation occurring 
there relative to the Chinese Government crackdown.

At this point, I yield the floor.















 Amendment No. 4710
