---
---

# None
## `ed4e6e3f460af00f3e2c0e6523c804ca`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 9 July 2009`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. I want to just rise to thank Chairwoman Nita 
Lowey and Ranking Member Kay Granger for their great work on this bill 
and focus particularly on this bill's commitment to global development 
issues.

I'm the chair of the Terrorism Subcommittee of the Committee on Armed 
Services and have been working very, very closely with our military as 
we attempt to combat terrorism and violent extremist groups throughout 
the globe. Certainly, there is a big military component to that.

What we have increasingly learned in the military and elsewhere is 
that we will never win that battle and that fight if we are not equally 
committed to global development.

We have seen a major commitment in this bill on the central focus in 
our efforts right now, which is in Pakistan and Afghanistan. I applaud 
that effort. But also understand that this bill recognizes that it is 
broader than just Pakistan and Afghanistan. Throughout the Middle East, 
throughout Africa, throughout Southeast Asia, failed and failing states 
are a major contributor to instability and the rise of violent 
extremist groups. Getting our global development policy right is 
critical to stopping that effort. This bill makes that commitment.

I also want to say that this is not just a matter of more money. It 
is a matter of improving the quality of our global development, of 
coordinating it, of figuring out what works and making sure that our 
programs are more efficient and more effectively delivered.

On that point, I also support the committee and support the Foreign 
Relations Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee as well for putting 
pressure on the administration to make fundamental changes in the way 
we do global development, to make sure that it is better coordinated, 
more effective, and works better.

We have a lot of work to do on this front, but this appropriation 
bill reflects the priority of global development policy, funding it and 
supporting it, if we are ever to be triumphant in our efforts to stop 
violent extremist groups and reduce instability throughout the globe.