---
---

# AMERICA COMPETES ACT
## `ed56df2455bc561fdca7a338f1361aa9`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 20 April 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from New Mexico. No 
one in the Senate on either side of the aisle has been more consistent 
or more effective in advancing our Nation's position in science and 
technology. He is also a delight to work with. It is rare to have a 
chance to work across the aisle in the way we have the last couple of 
years, not only on this legislation, but Senator Bingaman, for example, 
noticed that we were losing our edge in world-class computing. He saw 
that because of a visit to Japan. He came to me, and we worked together 
to try to restore that edge. He constantly is doing that in a quiet and 
effective way. It is a pleasure to work with him.

I also thank the majority leader, Senator Reid, and the Republican 
leader, Senator McConnell. Senator Bingaman and I went to see the 
majority leader 2 years ago when he was the minority leader. We asked 
him to do exactly what he has done. He and Senator Frist did. They 
created an environment in which this bill had a chance to succeed. Then 
Senator McConnell stepped right up, following Senator Frist's 
tremendous help and leadership in this effort, and it is fairly 
remarkable that we worked so evenly together in the last Republican 
Senate on this bill that the legislation was introduced in the 
Democratic Senate in the same way because we worked together on it and, 
hopefully, that has produced a better result.

I begin my remarks with a story. Last August, a group of Senators 
went to China. We were led by two of our most distinguished Members, 
Senator Stevens and Senator Inouye, the two leaders of the Commerce 
Committee and two of the major contributors to this legislation. Those 
two Senators were very well received in China. Senator Inouye, of 
course, is a Congressional Medal of Honor winner from World War II, and 
Senator Stevens was a Flying Tiger. He flew the first cargo plane into 
Beijing toward the end of World War II. So he was very well received in 
China.

As a result, we had a chance to meet with the senior leaders of China 
in a way most Americans had not to that time. We spent an hour with 
President Hu. We spent another hour with the No. 2 leader in China, Mr. 
Wu, who is chairman of the National People's Congress.

We talked about the issues one would expect an American delegation of 
a dozen Senators would talk about with the leaders of China. We talked 
about their military posture. We talked about North Korea. We talked 
about Iraq. We talked about Iran. But, Mr. President--I can still see 
this--in both of the meetings we had, one with Mr. Hu, the second with 
Mr. Wu, there was one subject about which those two leaders of China 
were most animated, and that was the subject we are discussing today: 
how to develop China's brain power advantage so they can create more 
good, new jobs in China. That was the subject they really wanted to 
talk about.

President Hu had gone to the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the 
Chinese Academy of Engineering just a month earlier in July. He 
assembled them in the Great Hall of the people. He outlined a new 15-
year plan to make China a technology leader in the world.

In his speech, President Hu said China must ''promote a huge leap 
forward in science and technology. We shall put strengthening 
independent innovation capability at the core of economic structure 
adjustment.''

Anyone who follows China knows that when their leaders talk about 
leaps forward, it is a pretty big deal. President Hu's new plan appears 
more likely to succeed and includes reforming China's universities and 
massively investing in new research.

We regularly see stories of how Chinese-born academicians, some of 
our most distinguished faculty members at our major universities, are 
now accepting invitations to go back to China, their homeland, and 
create great universities there. There are a lot of people here--one-
half of the Nobel Prize winners in physics who are American are 
immigrants or the sons and daughters of immigrants.

So China is serious about this plan. Mr. Hu said:




 We all bear the time-honored mission to provide strong 


 scientific support for the construction of a well-off society 


 by improving our independent innovation capability and 


 building an innovative country. I hope that our scientists 


 and technicians will strive hard to make our brilliant 


 achievements and constantly contribute to our country and our 


 people.


Those are the leaders of China. They know what to do.

The United States has a remarkable position. As Senator Bingaman 
said, Senator Reid said, and Senator McConnell said, we don't want to 
take it for granted because we can't. But let's stop and think about 
where we are. This huge brain power advantage we have in the United 
States of America has given us a situation in which we produce about 30 
percent of the gross national product in the world in for about 5 
percent of the people. About 30 percent of all the dollars, volume in 
the world this year is being produced in this country, a country that 
only includes 5 percent of the people. How does that happen? The United 
States has a number of advantages: its location, its resources, the 
great diversity we have here, the fact we have turned all that 
diversity into one country. But when we look at all of our advantages--
and I should quickly put the great entrepreneurial engine we have here, 
the fact that if you want to come to a big country and start from 
scratch and create a company--and I have had the privilege to help do 
that in the private sector--this is the place to do it. But when you 
look at our major advantage, it is our brainpower.

No other country has had the broad system of education we have had. 
No other country has the large number of great research universities 
the United States of America has. No other country has the great 
National Laboratories we have. As a result, over the last century, 
especially since World War II, no other country has come close to 
turning its brainpower advantage into jobs, into dollars, into a high 
standard of living for a large number of people, and the rest of the 
world sees that. They see it on television. They see it on the 
Internet. They see it because more than half a million students from 
around the world, many of the brightest men and women in the world, 
come here to our universities, and they see what we have been able to 
do, and they say: Why can't we do this at home in China? Why can't we 
do this at home in India? Why can't we do this in Ireland? And they are 
doing it. We are glad they are doing it. We want them to have a high 
standard of living, too. The more money they make, the more goods they 
can buy from the United States of America. So we encourage that 
activity.

It also spreads our democracy, our ideals. We go to Thailand or some 
other country, and we find the Minister of Agriculture is a graduate of 
the University of Tennessee. He has learned here. He goes there and 
teaches about agriculture, and he promotes our ideas. Our higher 
education system has probably been the most effective foreign aid we 
have ever invested in, just those half million students who go there.

However, we are at risk of losing our brainpower advantage. If we 
lose our brainpower advantage, we lose our advantage and our standard 
of living. In other words, in plain English, we don't have as much 
money in our pockets, we don't have as many good jobs, and our families 
don't have the kind of prosperity many have come to take for granted. 
That is what this piece of legislation is about.



We talk a lot about outsourcing jobs, about growing new jobs. Well, 
this is the way to keep good new jobs in the United States and to grow 
them. When a graduate of a university, such as the student at the 
University of Maryland--I think he dropped out, actually--a foreign 
student--creates Google, that creates thousands and thousands of new 
jobs in the United States, as Thomas Edison did years ago, as Bill 
Gates did more recently, and as thousands of entrepreneurs do every 
day. It takes the brainpower advantage to create the job and it takes 
the brainpower advantage to work at the facility or the plant that has 
the jobs.

That is why, toward the end of a long Budget Committee hearing 2 
years ago, I was getting a little depressed listening to what I heard 
about the numbers. According to the budget 2 years ago, and the budget 
last year, and the budget this year, we are on an unsustainable course 
in terms of being able to pay for Medicare and Medicaid. So the 
question came to me: Well, if we are going to squeeze out everything 
else in order to pay for Medicare and Medicaid and other programs, the 
war in Iraq, then how are we going to invest in this great engine of 
brainpower that creates the money that pays all the bills? I struggled 
with this as the Governor of Tennessee. I was trying to raise our 
standard of living in Tennessee. We were the third poorest State 25 
years ago when I became Governor, based on family incomes. We already 
had low taxes. We had a right-to-work law. We needed to change some 
rules about the usury limit in banking. We needed to add a new four-
lane highway system. All those were progrowth. But the most progrowth 
action I discovered we could take was to improve our colleges and our 
universities and our research facilities. That is progrowth.

As a result of better schools, better colleges, and better 
universities, combined with our other advantages, we moved ahead in our 
State. Better schools meant better jobs. Better colleges and 
universities mean better jobs. More research means better jobs. So we 
are talking today about better jobs--progrowth.

We better realize as well that we have some pretty big bills to pay. 
Last year, we spent $237 billion on debt, $378 billion on Medicare, 
$545 billion on Social Security, $70 billion or more on hurricanes, and 
we are spending about $4 billion a week on Iraq. What this legislation 
does is authorizes $4 billion a year over the next 4 years. As Senator 
Bingaman said, we made room for it in the budget this year to create 
and encourage and continue to push ahead this brainpower engine that 
creates the money to pay for all these necessary and urgent needs we 
have, these priorities we have. This is a progrowth piece of 
legislation.

I would say this may be the most important piece of legislation the 
Congress considers in this 2-year session. If it is not the most 
important piece of legislation, there is certainly no more important 
subject to most American families than: How do I keep money in my 
pocket to pay my bills? How do we keep our jobs from going to India and 
China? How do we keep our economic advantage? How do we come close to 
continuing to be the country that produces 30 percent of all the money 
in the world for only 5 percent of the people? That is why, at the end 
of that Budget Committee hearing I mentioned a little earlier, I 
literally walked down the street to the National Academy of Sciences 
and asked them, on behalf of Senator Bingaman and myself, with the 
approval of Senator Domenici, the chairman of our committee, and with 
the endorsement of Representatives Boehlert and Gordon in the House of 
Representatives--I said: Most ideas in Washington fail for lack of the 
idea. You are here at the end of a long day in the National Academies. 
You are supposed to be our advisers. So let me ask you a question: Why 
don't you tell us the 10 most important things we can do, in priority 
order, to keep our brainpower advantage? I said to them: I am merely 
one Senator, but I will bet if you do that, we will do it. We will take 
your advice.

The National Academy of Sciences and of Engineering and the Institute 
of Medicine formed an immediate group. They asked Norm Augustine, the 
former chief executive officer of Lockheed Martin and a member of the 
National Academy of Engineering, to chair the group. He turned to 21 
distinguished Americans who know a lot about the world and our country, 
Craig Barrett, chairman of the board of Intel; Steven Chu, cowinner of 
the Nobel prize in physics and Director of Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory; Robert Gates, who was then head of Texas A&M and now is the 
Secretary of Defense, and a number of others; the former head of MIT, 
Peter O'Donnell, a Texas businessman who has worked on AP courses, and 
they did this report: ''Rising Above The Gathering Storm.'' They didn't 
make 10 recommendations, they made 20, and they made them in priority 
order. Their priorities began with K-12 education. They went next to 
engineering and research. They went next to higher education. They went 
next to incentives for innovation.

At that point, we formed a bipartisan group of Senators and began to 
have what we called ''homework sessions'' with the various agencies of 
the Federal Government that had jurisdiction over these programs and 
the areas where the programs would fit. We also recognized that Senator 
Lieberman, Senator Ensign, and others had been working hard with the 
Council on Competitiveness, and they had similar recommendations. We 
also acknowledged that Senators Hutchison, Bond, and Mikulski had for 
many years been advocating various aspects of these programs, so we 
tried to integrate all of this into a whole. That produced a long piece 
of legislation that had to make its way through five different 
committees, but it attracted 70 sponsors last year--35 Democrats, 35 
Republicans. The Republican leader, Senator Frist, and the Democratic 
leader, Senator Reid, were the principal sponsors of the bill.

Senator Bingaman has done a good job of outlining most of the 
provisions of the bill, so I will, in a few minutes, put those into the 
record, but there is no other piece of legislation during the past 2 
years that was so broadly recommended by disinterested groups outside 
of the Senate and the House, that has been worked on by so many 
Senators here, and that has moved forward in the way this has. Making 
this even more remarkable is not only was it introduced by the 
Democratic and Republican leaders, it has been brought directly to the 
floor for debate. So what we hope is our colleagues will carefully read 
the bill, bring their amendments to the floor, and maybe we can operate 
in an old-fashioned way here. Maybe we can consider the amendments, or 
the improvements, debate them, vote on them, go to the next amendment, 
and then after we have finished with that, have a vote on whether to 
pass the bill, which I believe we will. I think we have a good chance 
of doing that.

Mr. President, I wish to now insert into the Record a few items that 
are important for our colleagues and those who are following this 
debate, so I ask unanimous consent that following my remarks a ''Dear 
Colleague'' letter of April 10, written by Senator Reid and Senator 
McConnell to all of our colleagues, signed by the chairmen and 
Democratic and Republican leaders of the three major committees which 
contributed to this, and which produced 50 cosponsors--we hope there 
will be more by next week--be printed in the Record.