# IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `ed585429e2f76b8b5bdfb0b21ed9115b`
`Ms. COLLINS — 28 February 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, knowing the Senator from California as I 
do, I am certain a lot of the issues she has raised are serious ones, 
deserving of


scrutiny. They are, however, under the jurisdiction of the Judiciary 
Committee and not the Homeland Security Committee. As such, I don't 
feel that I, at this time, have the expertise or the knowledge to 
evaluate the amendment that has been filed by the Senator from 
California. That is why I am objecting to the amendment. It is not 
because of its merits but because it is not relevant to this debate. I 
have not had a chance to look at it, and it is not in the jurisdiction 
of the Homeland Security Committee.

I will say to my colleagues that the Senator from Connecticut and I 
have been working very hard in a bipartisan way to try to keep the 
focus of this bill on issues to improve our homeland security. We were 
very pleased that, despite the overwhelming importance of the debate on 
Iraq, there had been an agreement by our leaders to try to keep that 
debate for the next issue to come before the Senate, rather than having 
it tied in with this bill. Similarly, the families of the victims of 9/
11 have made a plea to all of us to focus on this bill and to keep 
extraneous issues off this bill and rather focus on issues the 9/11 
Commission raised. That is what we are attempting to do. I have no 
doubt this is an important issue, an issue that is worthy of debate, an 
issue that is worthy of scrutiny by the Judiciary Committee, based on 
the explanation of the Senator from California, for whom I have a great 
deal of respect. But it is an issue that is completely outside the 
jurisdiction of the Homeland Security Committee.

For that reason, my hope is the Senator from California will look at 
this as an opportunity to educate us on the issue but will not proceed 
with this amendment because it is not at all relevant to the bill 
before us.