---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 1429,  IMPROVING HEAD START FOR SCHOOL READINESS ACT OF 2007
## `ed6daa91172df4002e4a624774d490ae`
`Ms. CASTOR — 14 November 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. I am happy to debate the record of this Congress under 
Democratic leadership. The Congress is focused on a new direction, 
first, to make America safer. We have already taken action to implement 
the 9/11 Commission recommendations to protect America from terrorism. 
This Congress has passed the largest veterans health care funding 
increase in the history of the VA. We have adopted energy security 
legislation that will reduce the threat of global climate change. We 
continue to hold the White House accountable for this unending war in 
Iraq.

In addition, this Congress is restoring the American Dream because 
now the law of the land is the largest college age expansion since the 
GI Bill in 1944, where we raised the Pell Grant and we cut the interest 
rate on student loans. It has been this Congress, and this is important 
if you are keeping track of the record of this Congress, it was this 
Congress that raised the minimum wage for millions of Americans. We 
have also adopted an innovation agenda promoting 21st century jobs in a 
global economy. We have sent aid to the gulf coast for Hurricanes 
Katrina and Rita and for the millions of Americans that continue to 
struggle day to day with the impact of those disasters. And we are 
fighting for health care, to expand health care to 10 million more 
American children.

Madam Speaker, we have also adopted a widely acclaimed and landmark 
lobby and ethics reform bill. And it has been this Congress that has 
returned to financial sanity and fiscal responsibility by adhering to 
pay-as-you-go discipline, no new deficit spending.

So I am very pleased to debate the record of this Congress on the 
floor of the House. We will work in a bipartisan way to build 
consensus. More than two-thirds of this legislation has passed in a 
bipartisan manner. We will strive to find common ground where we can, 
like here on the Head Start bill. But where we cannot, we will stand 
our ground, like on the Iraq bill that we will bring later today.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.