---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE
## `ed77d8276b3d2cf85657500a29826391`
`Ms. STABENOW — 20 September 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I know we are in the middle of working 
on a very important bill, but I do wish to take a moment to respond to 
a press conference the President just held where he spoke about his 
intent to veto the bipartisan children's health care bill we will be 
sending to him.

It is very important we indicate that just because the President has 
a bully pulpit does not mean he is accurate or right. It does not 
matter how much spin they want to put on this situation, the reality is 
the President of the United States gave us a budget earlier this year--
and the Budget Committee looked at this very carefully--this President 
proposed a budget that would cut, according to CBO, 1.6 million 
children from health care, current children. So when I hear the 
President at a press conference talking about the fact that he wants to 
make sure children are covered with health insurance, actions speak 
louder than words.

The President asked us to put forward a budget that would cut 1.6 
million children of working families who currently have health 
insurance from their health care. We rejected that request. We looked 
at the fact that there are from 6 to 7 million children who currently 
qualify to receive children's health insurance. Again, these are 
working families, folks who do not qualify for low-income help. They 
are moms and dads working one, two, maybe three minimum wage jobs, who 
are desperately concerned that at least their children have the health 
care they need.

I am very proud the Senate came together and in a true bipartisan 
effort developed a health care program, an expansion that will not only 
make sure every child who currently has health insurance will keep that 
health care, but that 4 million more children will be able to have 
health care in this country. Their moms and dads will not have to go to 
bed at night praying: Please don't let the kids get sick.

Sixty-eight Members of this Senate, not counting the fact that 
Senator Johnson who is now back with us would make that 69 Members, 
voted together in true bipartisanship to say that one of the basic 
values of this country is to make sure the children of working families 
have the opportunity to get the health care they need. It is pretty 
basic. This is a matter of values and priorities.

Later today, in a few moments, I am going to be joining with Families 
USA to announce their new study that says that 90 million Americans 
sometime in the last 2 years did not have health insurance. One out of 
three Americans sometime in the last 2 years did not have health 
insurance. This is a national tragedy. And for us not to at least focus 
on children, at least say our value as Americans is to make sure that 
children of low-income working families get the basic health care they 
need, to me is something I find incredibly important and appalling, 
quite frankly, that the President of the United States says on the one 
hand he will veto a bipartisan bill to expand health care coverage to 
children of working families and then have--I hate to say what I was 
going to say--the amazing position to come to us shortly and to ask 
somewhere up to another $200 billion for the war in Iraq that the 
majority of Americans want to see changed.