---
---

# HONORING ARMY SPECIALIST RANDALL RAY CHARLES LANDSTEDT
## `ed87a23861bb4ec9b69b86cd5469c01f`
`Mr. McCLINTOCK — 26 April 2010`

---


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Army SPC Randall 
Ray Charles Landstedt from Pollock Pines, California, who was killed 
April 6, 2010 while on leave in Crestview, Florida. Specialist 
Landstedt grew up in El Dorado County, attending local schools, 
including Pinewood, Sierra Ridge, El Dorado High, and Independence 
High. From an early age, Specialist Landstedt was determined to serve 
his country and after graduation enlisted in the U.S. Army. He was 
known by his friends and family as kind, generous, considerate and 
loyal. He is survived by his parents, Joanne and Daniel Landstedt; 
brother, James Copeland of Pollock Pines; and sister, Rickie Bronstein 
of San Diego.

I cannot begin to comprehend the pain of losing such a kind and 
courageous young man and I cannot ease that pain with my words. All I 
can do is say thank you for Randall's service. He exemplified the 
highest values of our country, embodying courage, valor and dedication 
in his service with the Army's 1st Battalion, 32nd Infantry Regiment, 
3rd Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division. Specialist Landstedt 
was twice awarded the


Army Commendation Medal and also received the Afghanistan Campaign 
Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, the Global War on Terrorism 
Medal, an Army Service Ribbon, an Overseas Service Ribbon, and the NATO 
Medal with an International Security Assistance Force bar. We will 
remember SPC Randall Landstedt for his honor and dedication, and we 
must never forget the service and sacrifices of the sons and daughters 
of our great country.
