# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ed8b4205086e25522070063974920b52`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, at the beginning of my remarks, I wish to 
associate my remarks with the Senator from Connecticut, Mr. Lieberman. 
I think his point-by-point rebuttals to previous declarations were 
appropriate and were right on point.

I will not talk long, but I rise to explain precisely why I will vote 
against this supplemental. In fact, there are a number of reasons I 
will vote against it--140,000 reasons are the men and women deployed 
right now on behalf of the United States of America and the civilized 
world.

It is right for the Senate to debate this war. It is right for us to 
ask questions. But it is wrong to hold hostage the money that supports 
those troops. We should separate the money from the debate. We should 
never hold hostage the money for our troops who are, on order of the 
President of the United States, defending our country and what we stand 
for.



There are almost 3,300 reasons I will vote no; that is, the 
sacrifices that have already been made on behalf of the United States 
of America, those troops who have fought and those who have given the 
ultimate sacrifice, troops like Diego Rincon, the first soldier from 
Georgia to die in Iraq, and LT Noah Harris, a famous Georgian who 
sacrificed his life as well. I have known those families. I have gone 
to those services. I understand the sacrifice, and I know how they feel 
of the pride of their sons who fought on behalf of this noble cause.

There are six additional reasons--my grandchildren. This is the 
ultimate war between good and evil. This is but one battle in a war 
that will determine the future security of the world. Make no mistake, 
there have been mistakes made, but it would be a horrible mistake to 
not confront terror or the agents of terror, because if we do, they 
have won.

Unlike any other war ever fought by the United States, we are 
fighting a group of people who don't want what we have, they don't want 
us to have what we have: the Bill of Rights; the right for me to 
express myself and Senator Kennedy to do the same without fear or 
without cowering; the right for the press to call it as they see it; 
the right to worship as you see fit; the right to bear arms. The 10 
basic rights of the Bill of Rights are precisely what they want to take 
away, not only from us but from the rest of the world.

Terrorists want us to cower in fear and want to run the world based 
on that principle. To pass a supplemental appropriations bill that 
couches the support of our troops based on arbitrary deadlines that 
only serve to benefit the very people we fight is just plain wrong.

I relish debate of this war every day on the floor and hope we will 
continue. The way you avoid making mistakes in the future is debating 
those things which have happened in the past. But it would be the worst 
of mistakes to withhold funding from our troops or condition it upon 
arbitrary deadlines and circumstances in another country, at another 
time, at another place.

Mr. President, I end my remarks by thanking those brave men and women 
who have sacrificed and those who are sacrificing now and the families 
of those troops, many of them families who live in my State of Georgia. 
I will vote for the supplemental appropriations of our troops 
unconditionally and separate our debate of other issues to another 
document. But I will not support holding hostage our troops or their 
money.

I yield the floor.