# None
## `ed984683577c2e2c190c40649c4618dd`
`Mr. HUNTER — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank the gentleman from California and the ranking 
member of the Armed Services Committee.

Let me start out by just quoting General Amos a couple of days ago, 
who's the commandant of the United States Marine Corps on this issue. 
He said, I don't want to lose any marines to distraction. I don't want 
any marines that I'm visiting at Bethesda Naval Medical Center with no 
legs to be the result of any type of distraction. Mistakes and 
distractions cost marine lives. So there's that quote from the 
commandant of the United States Marine Corps.

The marines are in part of the heaviest fight in Afghanistan right 
now, and they were part of the heaviest fight in Iraq between 2004 and 
2007.

This is not about race. Let me quote somebody else that we've been 
quoting, General Colin Powell. General Colin Powell said, skin color is 
a benign, non-behavioral characteristic. Sexual orientation is perhaps 
the most profound of human behavioral characteristics. Comparison of 
the two is a convenient, but invalid, argument.

It sounds good to make that comparison, that this is like the civil 
rights movement. The problem is the United States military is not the 
YMCA. It's something special. And the reason that we have the greatest 
military in the world is because of the way that it is right now. We 
are not Great Britain. We are not France; we are not Germany. And the 
Marine Corps is not the place, nor is the Army, the Navy, or the Air 
Force the place to have a liberal crusade to create a utopia of a 
liberal agenda and experiment during wartime while men and women are 
risking their lives.

And probably the biggest problem that I have with this repeal is 
this: the


Armed Services Committee, in the 2 years that I've been in Congress--my 
last tour was in Afghanistan in 2007. Since I've been in Congress we 
have not had one full committee hearing on IEDs, on roadside bombs, the 
number one casualty in Afghanistan.

This is a distraction. This is a waste of time, and every second I 
think that we spend on this and that Secretary Gates spends on this and 
that our commanding generals spend on this issue means that we're not 
focusing on what's important, that is, winning the mission in 
Afghanistan and bringing our men and women home safely. This does 
neither.