---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `eda0527f813948c793f291b620c2be2b`
`Mr. LATHAM — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. LATHAM. I thank the gentleman from New York for allowing me this 
time.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to share everyone's frustration with the 
mistakes that have been made in Iraq, and the fact that progress has 
not been made as fast as we would all have liked. I would say, though, 
before you cast your vote on this resolution, I think it is only fair 
to remind Members of this Chamber that the main thrust of this 
resolution focuses only on one of at least 10 of the recommendations 
the administration is carrying out based upon the work of the Iraq 
Study Group. Others include shifting our primary mission to training 
and equipping Iraqi security units and embedding more U.S. soldiers in 
the Iraqi military.

The administration has also pledged to hold the Iraqi Government 
accountable to its commitments to take primary responsibility for 
security in all of Iraq's provinces by November, establishing a fair 
constitutional amendment process, reforming de-Baathification laws, 
creating a fair oil revenue sharing arrangement and holding local 
elections.

Let me also remind the Democratic majority that when the Iraq Study 
Group announced its recommendations, the Democratic leaders publicly 
stated they hoped the President would embrace the report. But when the 
administration proposed carrying out policy recommendations by the 
study group, which included a surge in troops, the Democrats backed 
away and took the cynical approach, oppose and criticize, rather than 
to offer to work for real solutions.

Some Members of this body will use this week's nonbinding resolution 
to run away from the vote that they cast in 2003. I will suggest to you 
that history will judge this Congress in a manner many of you have not 
considered. In my judgment, every Member who votes in favor of this 
resolution is endorsing the Democratic Party's decision to manage the 
war from Capitol Hill.

After all, as the debate on this resolution got under way this week, 
the Democrat leadership in this House made it perfectly clear that the 
resolution is just the first effort by the majority to begin a 
Democratic-led legislative micromanagement of this war.

It is said that Colin Powell advised the President on Iraq, if you 
break it, you own it. So I want to tell the Democratic majority that 
with this resolution, your plan to micromanage this war through your 
legislative initiatives, you are taking possession of this war.

With this resolution, you are taking over the day-to-day management 
of this conflict, and at the same time taking the onus off of the 
President. Let me say that again. You are now responsible for the 
outcome of this war.

The Democratic majority has determined that solutions to our most 
complicated conflicts can be solved through nonbinding resolutions, and 
I predict forcing the President's hand by cutting off the funding for 
our men and women in uniform, just like they did in Vietnam. Our 
soldiers fought gallantly in Vietnam as they do today in Iraq, but the 
legislative micromanagement by the U.S. Congress during the Vietnam 
era, and in decisions to cut funding for our military mission in 
Southeast Asia, only tied the hands of our warriors, but it not only 
tied the hands of our warriors, it demoralized our men and women in 
uniform for decades.

Ladies and gentlemen, the new majority has not learned from the 
mistakes of the past, but has arrogantly concluded that House Democrats 
can take command and control of our strategy and our troops in Iraq 
from the floor of this Chamber. Keep in mind, now that the Democratic 
leadership has assumed the role of Commanders in Chief, the 
consequences of failures are now also theirs. Just as the North 
Vietnamese changed their strategy and were emboldened by the misguided 
actions of the Congress, so too will the enemies of freedom in Iraq be 
emboldened by this and subsequent resolutions by this Congress.

Furthermore, if the majority party's political rhetoric corresponds 
with their legislative agenda on Iraq, you can rest assured that the 
humanitarian disaster will be yours. The jihadist victory will be 
yours. The rogue state coalition of Iran and Syria will be yours.



A genocidal Sunni-Shiite-Arab civil war will be yours. You will have 
handed al Qaeda victory and empowered its homicidal leaders. Again with 
this resolution, the Democratic majority has seized control of this 
conflict. And again, remember what Colin Powell said: If you break it 
you own it.

History will not focus on your voting for the resolution authorizing 
the force, but they will long remember you unleashing the hell that is 
going to come in Iraq by voting for this resolution.