# TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST  HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008--
## `eda5fb23878cf7e45d0f6f5a53879461`
`Mr. DeMINT — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. DeMINT. Madam President, I rise to speak on the bill being 
considered at this time, the foreign aid bill we call PEPFAR. I would 
like to speak about it in relation to the overall condition of America, 
America's economy, so that we can put it in context.

These are very difficult times for our country, we all know. It seems 
the news keeps getting worse. Obviously, we are at war. As the 
situation improves in Iraq, Afghanistan seems to be deteriorating. We 
have to keep our focus on the terrorist problem around the world.

Our economy also seems to be failing or at least slowing at this 
time. The energy situation is crushing Americans. Just filling up their 
cars and trucks with gasoline every day becomes more burdensome. People 
are really hurting. It is very difficult to make ends meet paycheck to 
paycheck. The mortgage companies and banks are experiencing extreme 
difficulty, making it harder for people to buy homes and to stay in 
their homes. Now we hear that the government-sponsored enterprises we 
call Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are the largest credit 
organizations in the world, are experiencing difficulty and that we may 
need to step in this year and bail them out to the tune of $40, $50 
billion this year. Families are struggling. Any family that has debt 
and can't make ends meet, can't meet their expenses, would not consider 
going out and buying a new gas-guzzling SUV. We wouldn't do it.

Why, at a time when our country is in debt and, as far as we can see, 
expenses will be more than revenues, would we create the biggest 
foreign aid bill in history and borrow more money, $50 billion, and 
send it all around the world to some countries that are much better off 
than we are? We are doing this in the name of generosity and 
compassion, helping countries in Africa with the epidemic of AIDS. I 
supported the program in 2003, and it was a huge, expensive program at 
the time of $15 billion. Because it has been focused and somewhat 
accountable, it has been somewhat effective. But now we come back and 
increase that budget over 300 percent, expand it from countries it was 
originally designated for to the point where now money is going to the 
United Nations, to China, India, other countries. Some of these 
countries are much better off than we are as a nation.

This chart will help my colleagues focus on what we are dealing with 
and what we should consider as we talk about spending more money at a 
time when we are at war and our economy is in difficulty and the credit 
industry is in trouble.

Historically, we have been at about 20 percent of spending as the 
Federal Government in relation to our total economy, what we call GDP, 
or gross domestic product. Beginning now, projected spending is 
increasing dramatically because of retirees and those going on Social 
Security and Medicare and the fact that younger workers are not coming 
in at nearly the rate people are retiring. Our expenses as a country 
are increasing dramatically and will for the foreseeable future. We 
have no plans to meet this type of spending increase and no place to 
get the revenue. We are already in so much debt that some of the 
countries holding our debt are trying to get rid of it. Yet we continue 
to spend money. This doesn't even reflect all of the expenses we are 
going to have to continue the war on terror and supplemental emergency 
spending, such as floods. None of that is in here. So spending is going 
to increase dramatically. By 2050, which seems a long way off, it is 
going to go from around 20 to over 40. During that period, we continue 
to see astronomical increases in spending, with no plans to curtail it.

Perhaps even worse, we need to address our debt. That affects the 
value of our dollar, interest rates, and the money we have to spend on 
other priorities. We have never seen anything like this. This is not 
made up. This comes from the Committee on the Budget, as well as the 
Congressional Budget Office and the Office of Management and Budget 
from the administration. This is real.

In 2007, Government debt was 37 percent of our total economy. If we 
continue spending at the current rate, the U.S. Government's debt will 
be at 109 percent--larger than our total economy--in a little over 20 
years. There is no way we can maintain a successful economy and be the 
leader of the world with this scenario.

Some of our colleagues have rightly said in private that this is a 
crisis; we could be close to a meltdown as a nation. Yet what we are 
doing here this week I consider obscene and completely unacceptable. It 
is almost unthinkable that we would come in here, at a time when we 
need to be addressing an energy problem or looking at how we are going 
to deal with Social Security and Medicare and stay more competitive as 
a nation and keep jobs here, and talk about expanding the


largest foreign aid program in history, with no thought of where we 
are.

The world has to look on us and wonder: What are they thinking? They 
are running out of energy. Yet their laws keep them from developing 
their own energy supplies. They are in huge debt. Yet they keep giving 
money away to other countries that are eating our lunch economically, 
such as China. What are we thinking?

The fact is, we are thinking about the next election instead of the 
next generation. We have heard comments such as: There is no need to go 
after any energy in America; it will take 5 or 10 years. That is what 
President Clinton said when he vetoed a bill that would have given us 
oil supplies from Alaska 10 years ago. We would today be getting as 
much oil from Alaska as we are having to buy from Venezuela if we 
didn't have a President who said we didn't need to be thinking 10 years 
in the future. I say we need to be thinking 50 years in the future. We 
don't need to be borrowing more and more money and charging it to our 
children and grandchildren.

This bill we are talking about this week is all with borrowed money. 
It is not our generosity. None of us are going to give a penny to help 
Africa or other nations.

We are going to charge it to our children and grandchildren and walk 
out of here and feel good about ourselves. And we should be ashamed of 
ourselves. We should be more accountable to the American people.

This is a devastating chart to look at, yet we ignore it every day. 
Every spending bill that is put on this floor passes with flying 
colors, and it seems to be an insult to this body to even suggest we 
might cut the budget to some realistic level.

I have an amendment we will vote on in a few minutes that takes the 
level of spending from $50 billion to $35 billion over 5 years. That is 
still way too much, and we should not be doing it. It is still more 
than the President asked for. He asked for $30 billion. What it is, is 
the amount of money that the Congressional Budget Office said that no 
matter how hard you tried with this PEPFAR Program, you can't spend 
more than $35 billion effectively in 5 years; without wasting money, 
you can't spend more than $35 billion.

There is no reason this Senate can't say: Wait a minute. We are in 
financial trouble as a country. We still want to help people around the 
world. Let's bring it back to a level that at least is reasonable in 
the sense that it is all we can spend without wasting it.

My amendment does not change anything about the bill except moves the 
level from $50 billion to $35 billion. This will not take one dime away 
from AIDS treatment in Africa because if we keep it at $50 billion or 
$60 billion or $100 billion, we cannot get any more money to the people 
we are trying to help. So if we are at $35 billion, we are at the level 
that is going to help the people we are intending. In fact, it is still 
more than twice what we started this program with only a few years ago.

I encourage my colleagues to take a moment to think about America and 
where we are. It is wonderful to be compassionate and generous. But 
this bill is not about compassion and generosity because none of this 
money is coming from us or our salaries, and we are not paying for one 
penny of it by cutting another program or making a sacrifice somewhere 
else.

We are not being honest about where the money is going because it is 
no longer an AIDS to Africa program, it is an ''anything anywhere in 
the world'' program. We at least need to say we have the discipline to 
bring it back to the level that is the maximum amount our own services 
tell us we can spend. If we cannot do this, if Members of this Senate 
cannot take that one, small step of responsibility, we should not be in 
this body. We certainly should not go out to the American people and 
pretend we have done something good for them around the world because 
we have not. We are doing business as usual here, spending like there 
is no tomorrow, and there might not be if these same folks stay in the 
Senate and the Congress and continue to spend our money here.

I plead with my colleagues to look at reality, to look at where we 
are as a country, in debt and spending. Please, let's demonstrate to 
the American people that we can trim in one place--this massive foreign 
aid bill, giving money, which we are borrowing, all over the world--
that we can, we have the self-discipline. We can walk out of here and 
say: We at least trimmed it back to the maximum amount they said we 
could spend.

I hope some of my colleagues are listening. I appeal to them to show 
one grain, one little bit of sanity here as we approach the future, to 
take this bill back down to a level that is at least vaguely 
responsible.

With that, Madam President, I yield back.