---
---

# BIPARTISAN CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION TO NATO PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY  MEETINGS, THE OECD, THE OSCE, THE NATO SCHOOL, AND THE GEORGE C.  MARSHALL EUROPEAN CENTER FOR SECURITY STUDIES
## `edaea632f1668368c5cfdc95a8943496`
`Mr. TANNER — 5 March 2009`

---


Mr. TANNER. Madam Speaker, from February 14-21, I led a bipartisan 
House delegation to NATO Parliamentary Assembly meetings in Brussels 
and with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
(OECD) in Paris, and to additional meetings at the Organization for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in Vienna, Austria, and the 
NATO School and Marshall Center for Security Studies in Germany. The 
co-chair of my delegation was the Hon. Jo Ann Emerson. In addition, 
Representatives John Boozman, Baron Hill, Carolyn McCarthy, Charlie 
Melancon, Jeff Miller (Brussels only), Dennis Moore, Mike Ross, and 
David Scott, and staff, worked to make this a highly successful trip 
during which we examined current NATO issues, above all NATO's 
engagement in Afghanistan, the alliance's evolving relations with 
Russia, and the effect of the global economic downturn on NATO 
operations.

The NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA) consists of members of 
parliament from the 26 NATO states, as well as members of parliament 
from candidate states Albania, Croatia, and Macedonia (or Former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, FYROM), and other associated states 
such as Russia, Georgia, and Ukraine. Last fall, I had the honor of 
being elected to serve a two-year term as President of the Assembly. In 
this capacity, I preside over meetings during which delegates discuss 
and debate a range of issues of importance to the alliance. Delegates 
have the opportunity to listen to presentations by specialists from 
NATO and on NATO affairs, and to engage in discussion of the issues 
raised. An additional element of the meetings is the opportunity to 
meet and come to know members of parliaments who play important 
foreign-policy roles in their own countries. These responsibilities can 
include setting defense budgets and determining the operational 
restrictions placed on deployed forces. Some of the acquaintances made 
through the NATO PA can last the duration of a career and are 
invaluable for gaining insight into developments in allied states.

NATO will celebrate its 60th anniversary at a summit in Strasbourg, 
France and Kehl, Germany on April 3-4, 2009. Discussion during the NATO 
PA's February meetings were dominated by four key issues expected to be 
addressed at the April summit: NATO's stabilization mission in 
Afghanistan; its evolving relations with Russia; plans to draft a new 
NATO Strategic Concept; and the effects of the global economic downturn 
on national security and allied commitments to NATO. Our counterparts 
from NATO-member parliaments also expressed particular interest in the 
foreign policy goals of the 111th Congress and of the new U.S. 
Administration. As I will elaborate in a moment, my colleagues and I 
took the opportunity to respond to questions on these issues and to 
present our views on the current direction of U.S. foreign policy.

The key issue facing the alliance is NATO's effort to bring security 
and stability to Afghanistan. NATO has staked its reputation on 
accomplishing the Afghan mission by sending a sizeable force, extolling 
the alliance's capability for global reach, and expending resources to 
rebuild the political and economic structure of a country from which 
emanated the most devastating terrorist attack in western history. 
Failure in Afghanistan would likely call into question the future of 
the alliance. Approximately 55,100 troops from 39 countries currently 
serve in the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), with NATO 
members providing the core of the force. The United States now 
contributes approximately 24,000 troops to ISAF. In February, President 
Obama announced that the United States will send an additional 17,000 
troops to Afghanistan in the coming months. Forces from the United 
States, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands, and the UK bear the brunt of 
the fighting. The inequity of burden-sharing in combat operations 
remains an important point of contention in the alliance, and is a 
factor in domestic opposition to the conflict apparent in states that 
contribute the most combat forces. Each of us on the delegation made an 
effort to urge our counterparts from NATO parliaments to support ISAF 
and to contribute the forces and resources necessary to stabilize 
Afghanistan. Our delegation also emphasized that success in Afghanistan 
will depend on more than just military efforts, and called on the 
alliance to develop a more comprehensive political strategy for the 
region that includes increased engagement in Pakistan.

Relations between NATO and Russia in 2008 reached their lowest point 
since the end of the Cold War. Russia vocally opposed U.S.-supported 
proposals to strengthen NATO ties with Georgia and Ukraine, and 
Moscow's opposition to a proposed U.S. missile defense installation in 
Poland and the Czech Republic has sparked contentious debate about the 
merits of the U.S. plans. Tensions between NATO and Russia escalated in 
the wake of Russia's August 2008 invasion of Georgia, after which the 
sides suspended formal ties in the NATO-Russia Council (NRC). Low-level 
cooperation between NATO and Russia resumed in January, and formal ties 
in the NRC could resume after the April summit. NATO members remain 
divided on how to manage relations with Russia. Our delegation 
contributed to a number of forceful discussions on the future of NATO-
Russia relations and emphasized the importance of developing a unified 
approach toward Russia within the framework of a broader alliance 
policy toward the east.

Proposals for a new NATO Strategic Concept were a third topic of 
discussion at NATO PA meetings. NATO's current Strategic Concept was 
drafted in 1999 and a growing number of allied governments have called 
for the


creation of a new Strategic Concept that clarifies and updates the 
scope of NATO's activities. Such a document could address a number of 
important issues facing the alliance, including a possible streamlining 
of NATO decision-making and commitment to more equitable cost-sharing 
of missions; a clearer commitment to the missions of counter terrorism 
and counter proliferation, and possibly energy and cyber security; and 
a rationale for future enlargement. The April Summit's Declaration on 
Alliance Security could serve as a foundation and impetus for a new 
Strategic Concept that would be approved in 2010.

While in Brussels, our delegation met first with Ambassador Kurt 
Volker, the U.S. Permanent Representative to NATO. He provided a 
briefing and responded to our questions on a wide range of issues 
including those I just outlined and NATO's ongoing peacekeeping 
operations in Kosovo. There followed three days of meetings of the NATO 
PA's Defense and Security, Political, and Economics and Security 
Committees. The meetings raised such issues as NATO's current political 
agenda, NATO's relations with the countries of Central Asia, NATO 
defense policy, and U.S. and European responses to the global financial 
crisis and economic downturn. At the request of our fellow NATO PA 
delegations, I presided over an open joint session of the NATO PA's 
Political, Defense and Security, and Economic and Security Committees 
during which members of the U.S. delegation presented views and 
answered questions on the foreign policy priorities of the 111th 
Congress and the Obama Administration. Representatives McCarthy and 
Ross each made forceful and provocative presentations during which they 
emphasized U.S. willingness to listen to its allies when determining 
the way forward in Afghanistan and in other key foreign policy areas. 
At the same time, they expressed their hope that allied countries would 
increase their commitments to NATO efforts across the globe. 
Representatives Emerson and McCarthy also gave comprehensive responses 
to numerous questions about the U.S. response to the current global 
economic downturn and the effect of the downturn on U.S. foreign 
policy. Many of our counterparts from allied nations expressed their 
hope that the new U.S. Administration would reaffirm its commitment to 
multilateralism and international diplomacy.

We also held meetings with officials at NATO headquarters in Brussels 
and at Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) in Mons, 
Belgium. I had the opportunity to meet privately with NATO Secretary 
General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer to discuss developments in Afghanistan 
and priorities for the upcoming April Summit. Half of the delegation 
then attended a meeting of the North Atlantic Council, the alliance's 
governing body, comprised of representatives from the 26 member states. 
A range of issues--Russia, energy security, developments in the Arctic, 
and piracy in the Gulf of Aden among them--was discussed. We ended the 
day at NATO headquarters by meeting with U.S. General Karl Eikenberry, 
who is a member of NATO's Military Committee, and a former commander of 
NATO forces in Afghanistan. He briefed the delegation on NATO's mission 
in Afghanistan and highlighted the need to create a secure environment 
for upcoming Afghan national elections, to boost the capacity of the 
Afghan National Army and Afghan security forces, and to address the 
complexities of the political situation in Pakistan that is affecting 
Afghanistan's stability. The other half of the delegation visited SHAPE 
headquarters in Mons, where they received an insightful presentation on 
NATO military operations from NATO's Supreme Allied Commander Europe 
(SACEUR), General John Craddock. The group also toured NATO's Special 
Operations Forces Coordination Center.

The following day, our delegation attended a meeting of the NATO PA's 
Economics and Security Committee at the European Commission. At the 
Commission, we engaged in interesting and informative discussions on 
Europe's response to the financial crisis, the state of the 
transatlantic trade relationship, and European Union (EU) policy in the 
Caucuses and Central Asia. A highlight of the day was an exceptional 
presentation by the EU's Commissioner for Economic and Monetary 
Affairs, Joaquin Almunia, who gave a lively presentation and concise 
overview of the consequences in Europe of the global financial crisis 
and of European proposals for an enhanced global response to the 
crisis. The delegation also met with the EU's Director General for 
Trade, David O'Sullivan, who outlined the principal points of 
controversy in transatlantic trade relations and the Doha round of 
trade talks.

The delegation then traveled to Paris for NATO PA meetings at the 
OECD. On the evening of our arrival in Paris, we held informative 
discussions with the Charge d'Affaires at the U.S. Embassy in France, 
Mark Pekala, and several of his staff. French foreign policy priorities 
and the prospects for French reintegration into NATO's military command 
structure were key topics of interest. The delegation welcomed the 
possibility of France's full reintegration into NATO, which could lead 
to an enhancement of France's already significant commitments to allied 
operations. The following day, after a brief session with our Charge 
d'Affaires to the OECD and his staff, we attended sessions at the OECD 
and met with the OECD's Secretary General, Angel Gurria. The state of 
the world economy, the global financial crisis, and the International 
Energy Agency's Global Energy Outlook were key subjects of discussion. 
The OECD is playing a crucial role in monitoring global economic trends 
and national and multilateral responses to the financial crisis at a 
time when global economic security and national security issues are 
becoming inextricably linked.

That evening, we traveled to Vienna, Austria, for a day of meetings 
with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and 
its Parliamentary Assembly. The 56-member OSCE is a key instrument for 
early warning, conflict prevention, crisis management, and post-
conflict rehabilitation in an area spanning from Vancouver, Canada to 
Vladivostok, Russia. As President of the NATO PA, I was invited to 
address the 320-member OSCE PA during its opening plenary session. Our 
delegation also held informative private meetings with the OSCE 
Chairwoman in Office, Greek Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyannis, OSCE 
Secretary General Marc Perrin de Brichambaut, and the U.S. Charge 
d'Affaires to the OSCE, Kyle Scott. Two of the key topics of discussion 
were Russia's calls for a new European security framework and the 
future of the OSCE's monitoring mission in Georgia. Russia hopes to 
convene a European security conference later this year to discuss 
proposals for a reform of the European security architecture that some 
view as an attempt to weaken support for NATO. Members of our 
delegation made clear that while we are willing to engage in dialogue 
with Russia on all issues, we would staunchly oppose any effort to 
counter or exclude NATO from the discussions. In my address to the OSCE 
PA, I called for robust dialogue and cooperation between NATO and OSCE 
member states to ensure that the current global economic downturn does 
not spark nationalist and protectionist measures that could become a 
source of conflict between societies. I also called on international 
organizations such as the European Union and United Nations to enhance 
and better coordinate their development initiatives in Afghanistan. The 
effort in Afghanistan is neither only a NATO effort nor solely a 
military effort.

The following morning, we traveled to Munich, Germany for site visits 
and meetings at the NATO School in Oberammergau and the George C. 
Marshall European Center for Security Studies in Garmisch-
Partenkirchen. I am proud to report that ours was the first U.S. 
Congressional Delegation to visit the NATO School in its 56-year 
history. The NATO School is a U.S.-German bilateral institution that 
serves as NATO's premier operational-level education and training 
center. NATO School Commandant, Colonel James J. Tabak U.S.-MC and 
Deputy Commandant Colonel (G.S.) Enrico Werner DEU-AF briefed the 
delegation on the school's wide range of training and education 
programs for officers and civilians from NATO member states and partner 
countries. We were particularly impressed with one of the school's 
flagship programs that prepares NATO members deploying to serve in 
NATO's Provincial Reconstruction Teams (PRTs) in Afghanistan. By 
building operational capacity and fostering collaboration between 
allied countries, the school plays a crucial role in preparing the 
United States and its allies to face the evolving security challenges 
of the 21st century. The delegation would especially like to recognize 
and thank all NATO member and partner nations who enable the NATO 
School to continue its mission by sending top training personnel on 
fully-funded rotations to the school.

The final stop on our trip was the George C. Marshall European Center 
for Security Studies in Garmisch-Partenkirchen. The Marshall Center is 
a German-American partnership dedicated to creating a more stable 
security environment by advancing democratic institutions, promoting 
peaceful security cooperation, and enhancing partnerships among the 
nations of North America, Europe, and Eurasia. At the Center, we were 
welcomed by the Mayor of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Lord Thomas Schmid, 
and the Center's Director, Dr. John Rose. Dr. Rose briefed the 
delegation on the Marshall Center's wide range of programs and 
activities. These include courses for government officials on security 
and terrorism studies and in-depth research projects on a broad array 
of security and governance issues. We then had a lively discussion with 
the Center's faculty members on issues including the future of U.S. and 
NATO relations with Russia to international counterterrorism efforts. A 
highlight of the discussions was an in-depth debate facilitated by 
Representative Scott on Russia's possible involvement in Kyrgyzstan's


recently announced decision to close the NATO supply base at Manas.

As always, members of the United States military contributed greatly 
to the success of this trip. The logistics of such a trip, compressed 
into a tight time frame, are complicated and require lengthy and 
detailed preparation. Our military escorts were from the Air Force's 
Legislative Liaison Office and the aircrew was from the 932nd Air Wing 
at Scott AFB, Illinois. They did an outstanding job, and I thank them 
for their hard work and dedication to duty.
