---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `edc73c858630b9e58b5c2b2cd6a921b2`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Chairman Skelton, let me thank you for your friendship 
and for your extraordinary leadership on the Committee on Armed 
Services. I appreciate your willingness to engage me in the important 
topic of suicide prevention in our military forces.

As you know, earlier this year, my constituent, Master Sergeant 
(retired) Christopher Scheuerman, testified before the Subcommittee on 
Military Personnel about the tragic circumstances surrounding the 
suicide of his son, Private First Class Jason Drew Scheuerman. Jason 
was deployed with the 3rd Infantry Division at Forward Operating Base 
Normandy in Iraq, and died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound from his 
M16 rifle. Jason showed clear signs of mental distress, but the system 
failed Jason.

Recent reports indicate the Army suicide rate is the highest in 26 
years of record keeping. While there are many outstanding mental health 
professionals in the Army system, the command structure creates an 
inherent conflict of interest and a lack of independent objectivity.

Servicemembers are currently allowed a second civilian opinion, but 
often find it nearly impossible to access an outside mental health 
provider. I appreciate the fact that this bill addresses the issue of 
suicide prevention by directing the Secretary to consider how the 
military can make a second opinion more accessible, including the 
possibility of providing a second medical evaluation in combat theater 
by


telephonic evaluation. I know that that is a somewhat controversial 
suggestion, but we must find a way to stop preventable suicides like 
Jason Scheuerman. We owe our servicemen and women no less.

Mr. Chairman, I would like to continue to work with you, Chairwoman 
Davis and Ranking Member McHugh on this important issue, and I hope 
that the Secretary will undertake this study immediately so that it is 
possible for our troubled servicemembers to obtain a second civilian 
health opinion.