# HONORING ARMY SPECIALIST BRANDON L. STOUT
## `eddd3d8f2205d39fcb914fa7a937cdf0`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 1 February 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Army Specialist 
Brandon L. Stout, who died on January 22, 2007 in Baghdad, Iraq in 
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Specialist Stout, who was 23 years old, died when an improvised 
explosive device detonated near his military vehicle. He was assigned 
to the 46th Military Police Company, 210th Military Police Battalion, 
Army National Guard, Kingsford, Michigan.

Brandon was raised in Kent City, Michigan. He met his future wife 
Audrey while attending Great Lakes Christian College from August, 2002 
to May, 2003. They married in May of 2005.

Brandon's faith was an important part of his life, and he hoped to 
pursue a vocation in ministry. He felt called to serve his country and 
joined the Army National Guard in June 2003. In 2005 he was deployed to 
Louisiana for nearly two months as part of the Hurricane Katrina 
response. Brandon trained at Fort Dix, New Jersey beginning in July 
2006 and was deployed to Baghdad on October 1, 2006. He earned his 
promotion to Specialist in December of 2006. Brandon was looking 
forward to a scheduled two-week leave with his wife, family and 
friends.

Brandon is survived by his wife; his mother and step-father, Tracy 
and Jeff Anderson; his father and step-mother, Bill and Tammy Stout; 
and his brother, Adam. His extended family includes Andrew, Elizabeth, 
Stephanie and Christine Anderson; Stephanie Stout and Callie McGee; 
Gary and Laurie Hinken; Dusty and Lisa VanderMeer; and Marianne and 
Lindsey Hinken.

Specialist Stout's family and friends consider him a role model and a 
hero. He was dedicated to serving his country, was steadfast in his 
faith and deeply loved his wife and family. I extend my prayers and 
condolences to his family and friends and hope that they find peace and 
comfort during this difficult time.
