---
---

# None
## `eddf0d8ab96f8f5882f46bdf09ca0d1b`
`Mr. ROSS â€” 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, this afternoon I rise on behalf of the 44-
member strong fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition.

Mr. Speaker, as you walk the Halls of Congress, you will notice these 
Blue Dog Coalition posters along the hallways which signify that you 
are walking by the door to an office of a fellow Blue Dog Member. And 
the reason you will find these posters scattered across the Cannon, 
Longworth and Rayburn House Office Buildings is because we are 
committed to restoring common sense and fiscal discipline to our 
Nation's government. And it is important to us, Mr. Speaker, that we 
remind every Member of Congress, as well as the general public that 
walk these Halls, that our Nation is in debt. In fact, the U.S. 
national debt, as of today, is $8,721,415,192,294. And we ran out of 
room on the poster, Mr. Speaker, but 43 cents. Our national debt, 
$8,721,415,192,294.43. That is a big number. What does it mean?

Well, Mr. Speaker, I will tell you what it means. For every man, 
woman and child living in America, including those children being born 
today, their share of the national debt is $29,093.20. It is what we 
refer to as the debt tax, D-E-B-T. That is one tax that cannot be cut, 
that cannot go away until we get our Nation's fiscal house in order.

Why is it important? Because our Nation is borrowing about $1 billion 
a day. But, Mr. Speaker, before we borrow $1 billion a day, we are 
going to spend a half a billion dollars paying interest on the debt we 
have already got. And many of America's priorities in the area of 
education, veterans benefits, health care, roads, many of America's 
priorities continue to go unmet and they will until we get our Nation's 
fiscal house in order.

As members of the Blue Dog Coalition, which is just another name for 
fiscally conservative Democrats, we are concerned about this. But, Mr. 
Speaker, our concerns do not end with the debt and the deficit. We are 
also concerned about accountability, and this Democratic Congress is 
going to restore accountability to this Chamber, to this 
administration, and, yes, to the Government of the United States of 
America.

The Constitution clearly gives Congress, not only the power and the 
authority, but it is our constitutional duty to provide oversight of 
this administration. And yet this Republican Congress that we have had 
for the past 6 years has been nothing more than a rubber stamp for 
President Bush and his administration.

It is time that Congress did its job. It is time that Congress put 
the rubber stamp in the drawer and pull out the Constitution and read 
it and understand that we have a duty, a constitutional duty, to 
provide oversight to this administration and to this government. We are 
going to do that. And we are doing it in many areas, including 
providing for accountability for how the hardworking people of this 
country's tax money is being spent in places like Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, you ask a hundred different people what they think about 
this Iraq war policy, you will get about a hundred different answers. 
And by the way, very few or none of them are going to agree with the 
direction that President Bush is currently going. If you ask fellow 
Blue Dog members, you will get different answers as well. I, 
personally, am opposed to the surge. Others may not be. That is 
something that we believe each Member must make a decision on and speak 
from their heart and represent their constituency.

But one of the things that we are united on as Blue Dog members is 
restoring accountability for how this money is being spent in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I want to show here a couple of numbers that are very 
important. One is the cost of the Iraq war. They spent $2.5 billion 
pre-invasion in 2001 and 2002. In 2003, $51 billion was spent. In 2004, 
$77.3 billion was spent. In 2005, $87.3 billion was spent. In 2006, 
$100.4 billion. 2007, to date, we are getting ready to vote on another 
supplemental appropriation bill for the war, but to date, $60 billion. 
That puts the total cost to the taxpayers of America at nearly $400 
billion, $378.5 billion.



Now, what does that mean? That is a lot of money. How do you break it 
out? The total cost for 2006 alone, $100.4 billion. That is $8.44 
billion per month of your tax money, Mr. Speaker, going to Iraq.

Another way of putting it, $275 million a day, or about 11 or $12 
million per hour. And yet there has been a lack of accountability on 
how your tax money is being accounted for and how it is being spent in 
Iraq.

So we, Mr. Speaker, have what is called House Resolution 97 that we 
have filed as members of the Blue Dog Coalition. And it is a resolution 
to provide for Operation Iraqi Freedom cost accountability. And let me 
just get to the meat of it. Basically, the resolution says this: that 
within 30 days after the adoption of this resolution, and every 90 days 
thereafter, the Department of Defense Inspector General and the Special 
Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction shall prepare and transmit to 
Congress an unclassified report with a classified annex, if necessary, 
that would contain, one, a detailed accounting of how military and 
reconstruction funds in Iraq have been spent thus far; two, a detailed 
accounting of the types and terms of contracts awarded on behalf of the 
United States, including the methods by which such contracts were 
awarded and contractors selected; three, a description of efforts to 
obtain support and assistance from other countries toward the 
rehabilitation of Iraq; and, four, an assessment of what additional 
funds is needed to complete military operations and reconstruction 
efforts in Iraq, including a plan for security of Iraq, a detailed plan 
for how any future funds will be spent and a statement of how those 
funds will advance the interests of the United States and Iraq.

If either Inspector General fails to submit a quarterly report, the 
Government Accountability Office shall conduct an audit and report to 
Congress. Sanctions shall be imposed against contractors who have 
engaged in fraud or abuse or war profiteering. Congress should create a 
Truman-like committee to conduct an ongoing study and investigation of 
the awarding and carrying out of contracts by the United States to 
conduct activities with regard to Operation Iraqi Freedom and make such 
recommendations to the House as the Select Committee deems appropriate.

Funding requests for Operation Iraqi Freedom in fiscal year 2008 and 
beyond must come through the regular appropriations process and not be 
hidden through these so-called emergency supplementals. In furtherance 
of the partnership that is critical to success in Operation Iraqi 
Freedom, the administration should firmly condition further American 
financial, military and political resources upon steady improvement in 
Iraq, assumption of principal responsibility for internally policing 
Iraq.

In other words, Mr. Speaker, this resolution says that it is time for 
this administration to be accountable for how the hardworking people of 
this country's tax money is being spent in Iraq, no more rubber stamps 
for this administration. We will fulfill our constitutional duty of 
providing oversight.

And it also says, Mr. Speaker, that the President should do all he 
can to get Iraq to take responsibility for their own actions and to 
take the lead on trying to restore order to that country.

And it also says that this administration must be held accountable 
for how your tax money is being spent, that there should be 
transparency to the process, and full disclosure of who is getting paid 
to do what in Iraq when it comes to private contractors, and to make 
sure that this war profiteering in Iraq by private contractors comes to 
an end. That is basically what the resolution says.

Mr. Speaker, every one of us in the Blue Dog Coalition, and I think 
every one of us in this Congress, Democrat and Republican alike, 
supports our troops. We can't do enough for our troops. And I can tell 
you, as far as I am concerned, as long as we have men and women in 
uniform in harm's way, I am going to do my part to ensure that we 
provide them the resources they need to get the job done as safely as 
possible.

But it is also important that this Congress fulfill its 
constitutional oversight responsibility and demand that this 
administration be accountable for how your tax money, some $275 million 
a day, is being spent in Iraq. And there are reports that indicate that 
at least 20 percent of the money going to Iraq cannot be accounted for.

Think what we could do to provide health care benefits, housing 
benefits and other benefits for our veterans. And in Iraq and 
Afghanistan we have got a new generation of veterans coming home, and 
we have got to be there for them as a country. We cannot do enough for 
our men and women in uniform. We cannot do enough for our veterans. We 
have got to be there for them.

We have also got to be sure that this money, some $100.4 billion in 
2006 that this administration is sending to Iraq, is accounted for and 
that it is being spent in support of our soldiers and that we have the 
resources to take care and to honor our veterans, including a new 
generation of veterans coming home today from Iraq and Afghanistan.

A number of fellow Blue Dog members will be joining me this evening 
as we talk about providing for Operation Iraqi Freedom cost 
accountability. And one of those who has joined me is a fellow Blue Dog 
member, someone that is very active in the Blue Dogs, was a member of 
our nominating committee for officers earlier this year, and that is 
the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Chandler). And I yield to the 
gentleman from Kentucky.