# None
## `edf65be224a3dabb1fd353e23e7761c5`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 15 May 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 
692, which authorizes Governors of the several States to order the 
National Flag to be flown at half-staff in the event of the death of a 
member of the Armed Forces. Section 2(a) would add ''or the death of a 
member of the Armed Forces from any State, territory, or possession who 
dies while serving on active duty'' to the list of persons under 4 
D.S.C. Sec. 7(m) for whom the Flag should be flown at half-staff for a 
period of ten days from the date of death.

Under section 2(b), the bill authorizes the Governor of a State, 
territory, or possession to issue a proclamation under section 7(m), as 
amended by the Act, ordering the Flag to be flown at half-staff in 
honor of a member of Armed Forces who dies while on active duty.

Madam Speaker, it is a privilege for me to support a bill that honors 
the service of our fallen members of the Armed Forces who die while 
serving on active duty. These brave men and women have given great 
contributions and have made incredible personal sacrifices so that all 
of us in this country might live in a safe and secure Nation and world. 
In my State of Texas, 287 service members have already given the last 
full measure of devotion in Operation Iraqi Freedom. I think everyone 
of these fallen heroes deserve recognition for their supreme sacrifice.

Flying the Federal Flag at half staff to honor the service of fallen 
members of the Armed Forces is only a small step towards repaying


the insurmountable debt that all of us owe to all veterans. For, what 
is the price of freedom?

As President Kennedy once said, ''The price of freedom is high, but 
Americans have always paid it.'' And no one has paid a higher price 
than the brave men and women through the years who gave the last full 
measure of devotion to their country. Whether it is the ultimate 
sacrifice of life or the loss of limb or the loss of time with family 
and friends, we owe our veterans and in this case, those who have died 
during their service, an enormous outstanding debt of gratitude.

From Bunker Hill to Yorktown, from Washington, DC to the Battle of 
New Orleans, from Bull Run to Gettysburg and Antietam to Appomattox, 
brave Americans gave their lives so that the Nation might live. And 
from Alsace Lorain to Verdun, and Normandy to Berlin and Pearl Harbor 
to Okinawa, from Inchon and Correigidor to Vietnam, Lebanon, Grenada, 
Kuwait, Afghanistan, and Iraq, Americans have nobly sacrificed their 
lives so that the world may live in freedom.

The debt of gratitude we owe to all of the soldiers, sailors, 
marines, and airmen who answered their Nation's call and made the 
supreme sacrifice can never be repaid. But we can give these fallen 
service men and women the recognition and honor they deserve by flying 
the National Flag at half-staff.

Madam Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues to join me in honoring our 
fallen heroes by supporting H.R. 692.