# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `edff76e4d655de769cd292e7c44faced`
`Mr. DREIER â€” 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Chairman, I share Mr. Flake's commitment to reducing 
government spending and making sure taxpayer dollars are spent in the 
most efficient and effective way possible.

I would also like to say that I am a strong proponent of making 
earmarks more transparent by attaching Members' names to their 
sponsored projects. My feeling all along has been that if a member is 
not willing to defend their earmark on the floor of the House, then it 
was probably not worth the money. That is why I was so gratified to see 
the Majority include projects and their supporters in each 
appropriations bill. Especially, so that no member has to guess whose 
district each of these projects is in.

So now, I welcome the opportunity to support Fairplex, a non-profit 
institution that contributes every day to our local community. 
Fairplex, located in Pomona, CA, represented by my friend and colleague 
Grace Napolitano is host to over 300 events each year, and 2 years ago, 
they had the privilege of hosting out-of-country voting for the 
historic Iraqi elections. There is $250,000 provided in this bill for 
the Trade and Conference Center, which is an incredibly important 
addition to the Fairplex that will provide small businesses with a 
venue to operate, share ideas, and grow. This project is a model of the 
Small Business Administration's mission of facilitating the environment 
necessary for America's small businesses to succeed.

Mr. Chairman, 43 percent of the goods coming to and from the 
consumers and workers of the United States of America come through the 
ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. One of the most important centers 
for trade, planning and strategic meetings has been held at the 
Fairplex. As we look at our quest of trying to open up new markets for 
U.S. goods and services all around the world and as we look at ensuring 
that American consumers can have access to the best quality product at 
the lowest possible price, the utilization of this trade and convention 
center is critically important.

As important as the issue of global trade is, I was really struck 
when the December before last, I had the opportunity to listen to a 
friend of mine who happened to be at the Fairplex Trade and Conference 
Center. I have shared this story before but it is worth reminding my 
colleagues. Leading up to the December 15, 2005 Iraqi elections, of the 
eight planned voting sites for the Iraqi people who are here in the 
United States of America, one of those had unfortunately and 
unexpectedly closed down.

And what happened? The people at the Fairplex Trade and Conference 
Center came forward, and literally at the drop of a hat, they were able 
to provide the chance for Iraqis who were in this country on that 
Election Day to exercise that right to vote. Their ability to be on the 
frontline to participate in the Global War on Terror is something that 
I believe is vitally important.

I was listening on the phone as applause went up every single time 
that a ballot was placed into that voting box, and it was a great 
moment. And as we look for continued progress in Iraq, I am reminded of 
each of those votes that were cast at the Fairplex Trade and Conference 
Center. This particular earmark is there helping us in the Global War 
on Terror and helping us remain competitive globally.

We in the House strive for Federal, State and local cooperation on a 
myriad of issues, from national security, to education to disaster 
response. Coordination and investment by all levels of government can 
give programs a much better chance for success. That is exactly what is 
happening at the Trade and Conference Center with all levels of 
government involvement and more important, private sector investment. 
It is worthy of this continued Federal partnership.