# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `ee0bf6b267e0a4d67a9faf0788d5ae12`
`Mr. WILSON of Ohio — 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, it is hard to believe when the 
Katrina accident happened that we were out of line as much as we were 
and not responsive, as has been indicated here this evening, and it is 
even harder to believe that after the correction of that, we are back 
in the same boat again.

I know they changed FEMA directors. Mr. Brown was terminated and went 
on. And then now we have a new group of people running FEMA, but it 
does not seem to be any better.

Mr. Speaker, the Blue Dogs stand for accountability. We stand for 
accountability in a lot of different ways. We feel that there are some 
truly misguided priorities that are hurting our country and hurting us 
as people here.

Mr. Speaker, just Sunday evening, millions of Americans watched ''60 
Minutes.'' We heard what the Blue Dogs have been talking about for more 
than a decade.

In the report, the U.S. Comptroller General, the Nation's top 
accountant, urged people to wake up to our budget crisis before it is 
too late. These are his words, Mr. Speaker.

''What's going on right now is we're spending more money than we 
make.'' Couldn't be much more simple. ''We're charging it to a credit 
card and expecting our grandchildren to pay.''

Mr. Speaker, that is absolutely wrong. The Comptroller General is 
absolutely right. Our fiscal mess is outrageous, and we as Blue Dogs 
stand for accountability. Reckless budgets and irresponsible spending 
has got us into the fix we are in, and now it is the responsibility of 
this Congress to help us get out.

The administration has had misguided priorities that have been 
painfully clear. They send pallets of cash to Iraq while our veterans 
at home suffer in dirty, broken-down facilities, not getting the 
medical care that they need after putting their life on the line for 
our country. Recent reports of the deplorable conditions and the roach-
infested rooms at Walter Reed are an outrage, and they are 
unacceptable. Mr. Speaker, it is an understatement to say that our 
brave veterans deserve so much more than the way they are being 
treated.

We must hold this administration accountable for this reckless 
approach that has allowed millions of dollars to go missing in Iraq 
while our brave young men and women who need proper medical care have 
gone without it. We must provide real oversight to keep this from 
happening again, just like we need to provide real oversight as we work 
for a responsible budget.

Mr. Speaker, what will happen if we do not clean up this fiscal mess? 
We only need to listen to the words of the Comptroller General again in 
last Sunday's ''60 Minutes'' presentation. He said, ''We suffer from a 
fiscal cancer. It's growing within'' our country. ''And if we do not 
treat it, it could have catastrophic consequences for'' America.

As Blue Dogs, Mr. Speaker, we will shine a bright light on this 
cancer and nurse our budget back to health. Our future and the future 
of our children and our grandchildren depend on it.