# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `ee1c19448d06d06b9b51f6dd13e58b80`
`Mr. KYL — 29 January 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I, too, am anxious to get on to the debate 
about the resolutions that deal with Iraq. I will speak to that for 10 
minutes.

My position is clear. I think we ought to give the President's 
strategy a chance to work. We asked him to come up with a new strategy. 
He has done so, and it seems to me that it is our responsibility as a 
Senate to give that a chance to work or to provide an alternative--not 
an alternative to leave but an alternative to win. There are plenty of 
ways to leave. We can begin leaving now and have it done in a year. We 
can leave in 6 months. We can leave to the border but not beyond. There 
are a lot of different ideas about how to leave, but an alternative is 
not how to leave but how to win.

The President has presented such a strategy and I believe we ought to 
give it a chance to work.

Resolutions that are nonbinding nevertheless have consequences. They 
can't change the policy that is already being effected, the strategy in 
Iraq, but what they can do is send very powerful messages. First, they 
can send a message to our enemies. It seems to me the last message we 
want to send to the enemy is that the Congress does not support the 
mission in Iraq. Obviously that emboldens the enemy. That is what GEN 
David Petraeus said in his testimony before the Armed Services 
Committee last week. It sends a message to our allies that we are not 
in it to the end, and they begin to wonder whether they should start 
hedging their bets.

By the way, it sends a message to a country such as Iran, which is 
already beginning to offer, now, to in effect take our place in Iraq: 
They will do the training of troops, they will do the reconstruction if 
the Iraqis will simply invite them in. That obviously would not be in 
our best interests, not to mention the Iraqis' best interests.



Most importantly, a resolution such as this sends a message to our 
troops. It is a very powerful message and a very negative one. It is a 
message that in effect says we support you, but we don't support your 
mission. We are sending you into a place where you could well die, but 
we don't support the cause for which you are dying. We don't think you 
can win. As a matter of fact, I have more respect for those who 
advocate voting on whether we should continue to support the effort 
monetarily--the legitimate function of the Congress, to cut off the 
funds if we don't like the war--than I do for those who simply want to 
''send a message.'' At least the others would be willing to have the 
courage of their convictions, that if this is not a winnable war, we 
better stop it now as opposed to simply trying to send a message.

Let me tell you what this message does. Last Friday night I was 
watching the NBC ''Nightly News.'' Brian Williams was the broadcaster, 
and he called on Richard Engel, reporting from Iraq, to talk about what 
was going on there. Richard Engel talked about the Stryker Brigade, 
Apache Company, setting out on a mission to find bases for U.S. troops. 
I will quote what he said in the report.

He said:




 It's not just the new mission the soldiers are adjusting 


 to. They have something else on their minds: The growing 


 debate at home about the war. Troops here say they are 


 increasingly frustrated by American criticism of the war. 


 Many take it personally, believing it is also criticism of 


 what they've been fighting for.


He goes on to say:




 Twenty-one-year-old Specialist Tyler Johnson is on his 


 first tour in Iraq. He thinks skeptics should come over and 


 see what it's like firsthand before criticizing.


And here is what Specialist Tyler Johnson said:




 Those people are dying. You know what I'm saying? You may 


 support--''oh we support the troops,'' but you're not 


 supporting what they do, what they share and sweat for, what 


 they believe for, what we die for. It just don't make sense 


 to me.


Back to Richard Engel:




 Staff Sergeant Manuel Sahagun has served in Afghanistan and 


 is now on his second tour in Iraq. He says people back home 


 can't have it both ways.


And then Staff Sergeant Manuel Sahagun says the following:




 One thing I don't like is when people back home say they 


 support the troops but they don't support the war. If they're 


 going to support us, support us all the way.


Engel then says:




 Specialist Peter Manna thinks people have forgotten the 


 toll the war has taken.


And Specialist Peter Manna says:




 If they don't think we are doing a good job, everything we 


 have done here is all in vain.


Engel concludes the report by saying:




 Apache Company has lost two soldiers and now worries their 


 country may be abandoning the mission they died for.


Richard Engel, ABC News, Baghdad.

That report struck me. I immediately talked to my wife about it, and 
I said those three soldiers have said more eloquently than I and my 
colleagues have, than we have, in making the point that you can't have 
it both ways. You can't both support the troops and oppose the mission 
we are sending them on, putting them in harm's way. And can we say that 
their colleagues who died did not die in vain if the Senate goes on 
record saying we don't support your mission?

This is the conflict that has to be in the minds of the families of 
those who are putting their lives on the line and the very soldiers and 
marines who are doing the same.

Last Friday, this Senate confirmed GEN David Petraeus to take command 
of that theater, and there were all kinds of expressions of support for 
him. He is, indeed, one of the finest military officers ever to come 
before the Senate for confirmation. No one said otherwise. Yet at the 
same time we are talking about passing a resolution that would say to 
him: We don't believe in the mission we have just sent you on.

He testified he needed more troops in order to carry out the mission 
and that he supported the President's new strategy, one component of 
which is to add some troops so that he has the capability, in 
conjunction with the new Iraqi troops, to stabilize and pacify the city 
of Baghdad as well as the Al Anbar Province, which is currently being 
threatened by al-Qaida terrorists. He said he needs those new troops. 
Yet Congress would go on record as saying we do not believe you should 
have those new troops.

Again, at least some number of my colleagues, maybe half or 
thereabouts on the other side of the aisle, would cut off the funding 
for the troops in order not just to send a message but to end the 
involvement. At least that is a position that has action attached to 
it. I disagree with it, but simply sending the message by sending David 
Petraeus on the way, patting him on the back, saying, ''Go do a good 
job but, by the way, we don't believe in the mission,'' it seems to me 
is starting off on the wrong foot.

He said something else in his testimony that I thought was telling. 
He said: Wars are all about your will, your will and your enemy's will.

When asked a question by Senator Lieberman, he said passage of these 
resolutions would not be helpful, among other things, because you need 
to break the enemy's will in a conflict, in a war. This kind of 
resolution would inhibit his ability, General Petraeus's ability, with 
our great military, to break the enemy's will to fight. How can you 
break the enemy's will to fight when the people who are allegedly 
running the war back home have already signaled that they think it is 
lost and it is simply a matter of bringing the troops home, and that 
the mission is not supported by a majority of the Senate?


Resolutions, even if they are nonbinding, have consequences. In this 
case the consequences are detrimental, to our enemy, to our allies, and 
to our soldiers and their families.

We have some solemn responsibility here, but none is more serious 
than putting our young men and women in harm's way. All of us want to 
bring them home safe and sound. We all understand when we vote for 
that, people are going to die. Everyone who does that does so with a 
solemn responsibility. We are all looking for a way also to end the 
conflict so no more have to die. But the reason we authorized this in 
the first place was because we understood there was a mission to 
perform. Even those who disagree with the reasons to begin with 
appreciate the fact that we cannot leave Iraq a failed state. I think 
virtually everybody in this body would agree with that proposition. We 
cannot leave Iraq a failed state. The consequences, not just to the 
Iraqis and to the other people in the region but to United States 
security, would be devastating.

Something else on which most people agree is that the Iraqis are not 
currently in a position to pacify Baghdad and Al Anbar Province all by 
themselves. They need our help. That is what the testimony before the 
committees was last week.

If they need our help, if we all agree we can't leave Iraq a failed 
state, if General Petraeus is saying we need some time and some troops 
to get this job done in conjunction with a significant change in the 
way the Iraqis are approaching the war--finally backing us up now when 
we say we want to go into these areas and not just clear them but hold 
them, keep the bad guys in jail, the ones who have not been killed, for 
example--if we agree with all those things, then it seems to me the 
last thing the Senate should be doing is considering a resolution which 
would say we disagree with the mission, we disagree with the 
President's strategy, we don't think we should be sending any more 
troops, and we want to begin a process of withdrawing from Iraq.

When the debate time comes, I am anxious to have it. The American 
people deserve a debate. I heard a message yesterday that the American 
people had spoken. Indeed they did. I had an opponent who said we 
should withdraw from Iraq. Yet I won the last election, saying we 
needed to stay there until the mission was completed, and I even 
supported the addition of more troops if that were necessary. In the 
case of Arizona, I think people have spoken.

The reality is, however, I think it is a mixed message. They would 
all like to get out as quickly as possible, but if you ask them, Do you 
think we should leave before the mission is accomplished, do you think 
we should leave even though there is the strong probability of a failed 
Iraqi state, do you think we can say we support the American troops but 
we don't support the mission, I think we would disagree with that 
proposition.



It is up to us as leaders to lead. That means to let them know we 
support not just them but their mission, that we want to see it 
accomplished, and we will not undercut that mission or their support by 
passing a resolution that disapproves of the new strategy.

I hope my colleagues will agree we have to give this strategy a 
chance to work.