---
---

# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `ee1d9d925283e9be17d781f670ede121`
`Mr. CONYERS — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2237, the 
legislation offered by Mr. McGovern that would provide for the 
redeployment of United States Armed Forces and defense contractors from 
Iraq.

H.R. 2237 would significantly reduce the U.S. military presence in 
Iraq over a 9-month period. It requires that the Department of Defense 
begin redeployment of armed forces and military contractors no later 
than 90 days after the date of enactment, allowing the Department the 
time necessary to plan, prepare and execute the process of drawing down 
troops. The redeployment would be completed within 6 months, at which 
point further funding for an increased presence in Iraq would be 
prohibited.

H.R. 2237 respects the decision-making powers of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff and U.S. military commanders in the field. It specifically leaves 
decisions about where U.S. troops should be redeployed in the hands of 
the Pentagon. Troops drawn down from Iraq may be redeployed to 
neighboring countries, to Afghanistan, to other U.S. bases abroad, or 
back to the United States in support of homeland security and other 
national needs.

This legislation also recognizes and respects Iraqi sovereignty by 
ensuring that the present conflict will not provide for the 
establishment of permanent American military bases in Iraq. H.R. 2237 
provides for the orderly transfer of bases and facilities constructed 
or occupied by the U.S. military to Iraqi control. Nothing in this bill 
precludes the United States from negotiating base rights or shared use 
in the future, as is our practice with other sovereign nations.

H.R. 2237 provides strong support for the Iraqi people by continuing 
assistance for social, political and diplomatic reconstruction. 
Additionally, aid is permitted, at the request of the Iraqi government, 
for assistance or equipment to the Iraqi Security Forces or 
multinational forces providing security or training in Iraq. U.S. 
military forces would be authorized to remain in Iraq to complete the 
training and equipping of Iraqi security forces, pursue foreign 
terrorist networks operating inside Iraq, and provide protection to 
U.S. citizens and embassy and diplomatic personnel.

Recent news reports indicate that two days ago, a majority of Iraqi 
parliamentarians signed a petition calling on the United States to 
establish a timeline for our military to withdraw from their country. 
Poll after poll indicates that a large majority of Iraqis believe the 
large-scale presence of U.S. military forces inside Iraq is fueling, 
rather than abating, both the Iraqi insurgency and an increasing 
presence of foreign jihadists. Reducing our footprint in Iraq provides 
that country, its neighbors, and the international community with a new 
opportunity and a new environment in which to pursue reconciliation and 
a political solution to the violence currently devastating Iraqi 
society.

I applaud Speaker Pelosi for allowing this bill to come to the floor, 
and join with members of the Out of Iraq and Progressive Caucuses in 
supporting it.