# None
## `ee2b255cd7cb2d78d3d4bb2731db4fd5`
`Ms. CLARKE — 2 April 2008`

---


Ms. CLARKE. Thank you very much.

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Altmire, and to my colleague the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Meek) and to my colleague the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. 
Ryan), it is great to be here with you once again. I just wanted to 
come and have a conversation with you folks out there and, of course, 
my colleagues here.

I was in my office when I heard the wrap-up of the last Republican 
hour, and I thought I heard one of my colleagues state that we are in 
this economic crisis currently due to the last 13 months of Democratic 
control. I couldn't believe what I heard, because I thought to myself, 
what a joke. Who does he think he is fooling with this type of baseless 
rhetoric?

Americans know exactly who and what caused this economic downturn. 
Pointing the finger right now does not help us to put milk in the 
refrigerators of our neighbors and our constituents, and it certainly 
doesn't fill the gas tank, and it certainly does not enable people to 
stop fretting about whether they can make next month's mortgage 
payment.

One of the things that we can all be grateful for is that this 
Democratic-controlled Congress saw fit to rise to the occasion to 
forecast what we see as a real economic downturn by putting forth in a 
bipartisan way an economic stimulus package that we hope will bring at 
least a moment of respite, a moment where folks can catch their breath 
and catch their bearings as we present to them the opportunities to 
refinance their homes and the opportunities to just sort of take a look 
at the landscape and be able to catch up.

Right now, everyone is sort of running after themselves and trying to 
catch up with the mounting costs of just living today. And it is really 
just not a time for us to be pointing fingers. It is a time for us to 
put our shoulders to the wheel with real solutions for all Americans.

Certainly this ''New Direction'' Congress has enacted an economic 
stimulus package that brings relief to our families and provides 
recovery rebates starting next month, that raises loan limits for 
mortgages backed by the FHA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and allows our 
families to get mortgages with better terms. That is the type of 
language that Americans want to hear today. That is what the families 
of my district need to know is coming from us today.

When you think about the fact that we are going to be putting 
hundreds of dollars in the hands of more than 130 million American 
families who will spend it immediately to invigorate the economy, then 
you know that we are concerned, that we are not just saying that you 
got yourself into this, now get yourself out.

I noticed that no one said to Bear Stearns, you got yourself into 
this, now get yourself out. We decided as a nation that we had to make 
sure that the underpinning of our economic society was not withdrawn 
from under us. We need to do that for every single family here in 
America. We need to get that done.

Listening to our caucus and the conversations we are having as 
Democrats around phase two of our economic stimulus is quite 
heartening; knowing that we are examining what is needed to really get 
this economy going, which means really innovation, which


means bringing to the table the idea that we cannot continue to buy oil 
which is not an unlimited source, but that we have to look at renewable 
energies and the type of industry that will be developed in the years 
to come through that industry and looking at our infrastructure that 
has not been addressed, at least in my lifetime, that we know that we 
are going to need to get this done over the next decade or so.

So all of these things are on the table. These are things we are 
discussing as Democrats in terms of phase two, because we know that 
this stimulus is just the beginning of a multi-pronged strategy that we 
must take to ensure the future economic growth and strengthening of 
America.

So I want to just thank my colleagues for their continued focus, and 
not being distracted by those who would rhetorically joke about what is 
really a major concern to so many Americans right now as they sit at 
their kitchen tables, at their dining room tables, and they look at the 
energy bills that have come in from a very harsh winter and a very 
rough climate in many parts of the country, as they look at the fact 
that the cost of milk per gallon is now the same cost as gasoline per 
gallon, as they look at what it takes to travel from one part of this 
Nation to another, the cost, or from their homes to where they work 
each day, the cost. All of this is what we need to be focused on, and I 
am really excited that we are on our way.

We talked about the war in Iraq, and there is a direct correlation 
between what is happening with us economically and what we are able to 
do economically when we have got so much invested in a war in Iraq.

Just this last week, we have looked at 5 long years of war. I can't 
ever recall in my lifetime, and that is just to give you a sense, of us 
ever being at war this long. It says something to those who have given 
their lives and who are veterans of the wars of years gone by and those 
who would give their lives as our soldiers in the future that we can't 
be reckless about the call to arms in this country.

Some would say that what we have done with the war in Iraq has not 
been the best moment in our history. So as we look at the fact that 
over 29,000 Americans have been injured and more than 31,300 have been 
treated for non-combat injury and illness, I hope that we will also 
focus on the redeployment that will ultimately have to take place once 
the Iraqi government stands up. It is in the capacity to do so, and we 
are hoping that these things will happen simultaneously, quite frankly. 
But that we also pay attention to these families in our communities, of 
the walking-wounded warriors who will need our support and will need 
our help as they readjust to coming back to an America that has a 
faltering economy, that is struggling to keep its own people in their 
homes.

We need to pay very close attention to what is happening with our 
veterans, and this Democratic Caucus, this Democratic Congress, has 
been in the forefront of veterans' rights, of veterans' benefits, in a 
way that no other part of this government has paid attention to it.

So when I hear my colleagues in the last Republican hour focus on 
trying to cast aspersions at what the Democratic Congress has done, I 
really hope that they will join us in the bipartisan effort to focus on 
what is real. What is real are the veterans that are coming home to our 
communities and the struggles of their families and the duress that 
their families have been under in just trying to make ends meet on 
veterans' salaries. It is the struggle that everyone in our communities 
is facing, whether it is personally or it is a neighbor, in seeing 
those for-sale signs going up throughout the neighborhood. These are 
the issues that we are concerned about.