# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `ee33057dc9b51446c50c226a95763052`
`Mr. STEVENS — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I am pleased to endorse the comments of 
the chairman of our subcommittee regarding this Defense appropriations 
bill for fiscal year 2008 to the Senate. This bill does reflect a 
bipartisan approach. This is the approach Senator Inouye and I have 
always maintained regarding the Department of Defense appropriations. 
The fact is this bill was reported out of the full Appropriations 
Committee almost 3 weeks ago by a unanimous vote. We hope, as the 
chairman of the subcommittee said, to finish this bill this week so we 
can proceed to conference as soon as possible after the October recess 
for Columbus Day.

Our fiscal year began yesterday. Normally this bill would have been 
signed by the President by this time. But it is a matter that still has 
extreme urgency, as far as I am concerned, to get it before the 
President. As Senator Inouye has said, as a temporary measure we do 
have the continuing resolution in place to keep operations ongoing in 
the Department of Defense until this bill becomes law. That is a 
temporary measure. There are many acquisition activities that simply 
cannot be initiated under a continuing resolution. They require an 
annual appropriations bill to be enacted.

Under the continuing resolution, there are very limited amounts 
available each month to the Department. That is not sufficient to 
sustain a force in the field as we have in Afghanistan and Iraq. As a 
matter of fact, there are hundreds of thousands of men and women in 
uniform deployed throughout the world. They serve our country now in 
over 154 countries, and in our own country here, in the United States. 
Their bravery and dedication to our country is extraordinary and their 
sacrifices do not go unnoticed. We must not lose sight of our 
responsibility to support them in an expeditious manner, and 
completely. These people depend on us and it is our job to see to it 
they have all of the supplies, ammunition, and equipment they need to 
carry out their orders.

Each year the Department of Defense faces the critical challenge of 
balancing the cost of maintaining high levels of readiness, being ready 
to respond to any call wherever it occurs, whenever it is necessary. 
This means we must adequately invest in those technologies that will 
prepare us for the future, prepare us for the threats of


tomorrow as well as conduct the activities we have ongoing in those 154 
countries and in particular in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The bill Senator Inouye and I present today reflects a prudent 
balance among those challenges. I concur--may I say I concur 
reluctantly--in Senator Inouye's request that we not have supplemental 
items added to this bill. This is the first year we have not had, as 
part of the bill, a so-called bridge to cover the transition between 
one fiscal year to the next, in terms of the demands of the war. Very 
clearly, if we are going to send the MRAPs over to Iraq--these are the 
new vehicles that protect lives, that are saving lives--we need funding 
in advance. I am told we have over 30 different manufacturers working 
on these machines now. They have to be paid. I do believe the 
supplemental is absolutely necessary and I am very worried about it. It 
is to me a very difficult thing to believe the time might come when we 
do not have the money to pay for these MRAPs and they will stay in this 
country rather than be taken to Iraq and Afghanistan.

There are other new facilities and equipment that are needed by the 
Department of Defense. This is an ongoing. I was talking to my 
colleague Sid Ashworth today about the transformation of the military. 
At the same time as our people are fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan and 
are defending us in these other 152 countries, we face the problem of 
transforming our military into the military of the future. New 
technologies, new techniques, and new requirements demand change. That 
change demands new equipment and new research to assure we have the 
basic equipment and technology base we need to protect this country for 
the future.

I worry about a process that is slowing down the money that now for 4 
years has been presented in a supplemental, an addition to this bill as 
it was passed. This will be the first year we have not included that in 
the consideration of the appropriations bill. As I said, I am following 
the lead of our chairman, but I do believe we cannot go home this year 
without providing the money to carry over through the new year and into 
the period of next year before we can get another bill passed.

This is, to me, a very serious matter and one I hope to speak on 
later, at great length, as a matter of fact. But I do again thank 
Senator Inouye, our chairman, for his courtesy, his leadership, and his 
friendship as we move this bill to the floor.

We welcome for consideration any amendments our colleagues wish to 
present.

I yield the floor.