# CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `ee38d285b3ba14fcba91d74a60f667dc`
`Mr. BYRD — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, the Constitution grants to Congress an 
extensive array of powers, each of which in one way or another touches 
the lives of every 1 of the 300 million people who live in America 
today. But of all of those powers so carefully inscribed in article I, 
none is so powerful or so necessary for the welfare of our country as 
the power to appropriate monies--monies from the Federal Treasury. But 
it is not simply within the power of the Congress to appropriate funds 
for the operation of the Government. It is a duty that must be 
exercised each year without fail and without excuses. The operation of 
the Government to enforce our laws, to serve our people, to protect our 
liberties depends upon Congress providing the funds that are necessary 
to do so.


The bill that will soon be before the Senate, the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act of 2008, is essential legislation for the country. 
It includes 11 of the 12 annual appropriations bills. In all, it 
appropriates $473.5 billion--spelled with a B, Mr. President, a capital 
B. That is $473.50 for every minute since Jesus Christ was born.

It appropriates $473.5 billion for the operations of nearly every 
agency in the Federal Government, save for those funded by the already-
approved Defense Appropriations Act.

The bill contains an additional $42.2 billion in emergency spending, 
including $31 billion for the war in Afghanistan and for force 
protection for our troops--American troops, our troops--in Iraq. I 
wasn't for going there; I was against our going into Iraq. But we are 
there. We are talking about our troops who are there in Iraq.

The President's budget, as submitted, simply did not include 
sufficient funds for the health of our veterans. This bill provides 
$3.7 billion more than requested to make sure the Veterans' 
Administration can provide better care for our veterans.

The bill also includes $3 billion of emergency spending for border 
security, $622 million for drought relief, $300 million for 
firefighting in the West, and $250 million for low-income home energy 
assistance. Emergency funds totaling $2.4 billion are also included for 
peacekeeping operations in Darfur, refugee assistance, and other 
foreign assistance programs. We also approved $194 million for the 
replacement of the bridge which recently fell into the Mississippi 
River.

The consolidated appropriations bill contains an unprecedented level 
of transparency and accountability for Member-requested projects and 
earmarks. Each and every earmark contained in the bill or described in 
the explanatory statement is accounted for


in the tables that are part of the joint explanatory statement. These 
tables describe the project, they describe the level of funding 
approved, and they provide a list of the Members of either the House or 
the Senate who requested the item. It is there, as clear as the 
noonday's Sun in a cloudless sky. How is that, Bernie? We are not 
supposed to address other Members directly, but in this instance, I 
know I will be forgiven.

These tables, as I say, describe the level of funding approved and a 
list of the Members of either the House or the Senate who requested the 
item. All information required by Senate rule XLIV is included in the 
explanatory statement accompanying the amendment. Read it, Senate rule 
XLIV.

The total dollars that are earmarked is reduced--hear me now--by 43 
percent. That ''ain't'' chickenfeed. The total dollars that are 
earmarked is reduced by 43 percent compared to the appropriations bills 
signed into law by the President 2 years ago.

It is imperative this bill be approved not the week after next, not 
next week but this week. Last May, Congress passed a budget resolution 
that balanced the budget by 2012 and permitted Congress to approve 
appropriations bills at a level of $21.2 billion above the President's 
request.

The Senate was able to work constructively on a bipartisan basis to 
address the needs of the American people. After the deadly bridge 
collapse in Minnesota, the Senate voted 88 to 7 to provide additional 
funds to repair crumbling bridges. At a time when crime rates are on 
the rise, the Senate voted for a bill that puts more cops--yes, they 
protect you, they protect me--more cops on the street by a vote of 75 
to 19. While oil prices are soaring, the Senate voted 75 to 19 to pass 
a bill providing more help to low-income families so they can pay their 
heating bills this winter.

After the shocking state of the Walter Reed Army Medical Hospital 
made the news, the Senate voted 92 to 1 to approve a bill increasing VA 
spending to allow better care for our returning warriors.

Because our borders are in need of additional enforcement to stem the 
tide of illegal immigration, the Senate voted 89 to 1 to approve an 
amendment with billions more for border security.

This bipartisan cooperation on moving the appropriations process 
forward, while addressing the crucial needs of this country, would not 
have been possible without the diligent work of the committee's ranking 
member. Who is that ranking member? The distinguished and able and 
venerable Senator Thad Cochran--may his tribe increase. That is from 
Abou Ben Adhem, in case you have forgotten.

It is refreshing to know that in this era in which each political 
party is urged to view the other as a mortal enemy, there is hope for 
at least one oasis of comity in which the duty to govern is still taken 
seriously. I thank my friend, Senator Thad Cochran, and all the other 
Members of the Appropriations Committee for their hard work, their 
diligent work to produce each--now listen to this--each of the 12 
appropriations bills and for all their cooperation in the assembly of 
this Consolidated Appropriations Act.


Sadly, the President does not share our view that we must invest in 
America, apparently. The President--your President, my President, our 
President--proposed to increase the Defense budget by 10 percent. The 
President proposed to increase foreign aid by 12 percent. The 
President--your President, my President, our President--proposed $195 
billion of emergency spending for the wars, and yet the President 
believes this 7-percent increase we sought for domestic programs was 
fiscally irresponsible. As a result, he, the President--your President, 
my President, our President--threatened to veto 9 of the 12 
appropriations bills.

Under our Constitution, the President has the power to veto. He does. 
Nobody disputes that. And the President made it clear, crystal clear, 
as clear as the noonday's Sun in a cloudless sky, that he intended to 
veto our bills.

We are already 10 weeks into the new fiscal year. It is time to 
govern. There is a time in the affairs of men when we say it is time to 
govern. There must be compromise from time to time, and so working 
together across the aisle, such as Senator Thad Cochran and I--we shake 
hands, we argue, we debate, and we contend with one another. At the end 
of the day, we put our arms around each other and walk out of this 
Senate together. So working together across the aisle, we have cut 
$17.5 billion from the original levels approved by the Appropriations 
Committee. As a result, domestic programs receive only a 3-percent 
increase. I am not pleased with this outcome, but I urge all Senators 
to support the consolidated bill.

Within the limits set by the President, we have funded as best we 
could, the essential priorities of this Nation--your country, my 
country. For our veterans, this package includes a record $43.1 billion 
in funding for the VA. That is a lot of money, $43.1 billion in funding 
for the VA, an increase of $3.7 billion over the President's request.

The bill provides $37.2 billion for veterans health care, and an 
additional $124 million is included to hire more VA personnel to reduce 
a 6-month backlog of benefit claims.

Funding for the National Institutes of Health is $613 million above 
the President's request.

Energy prices are going through the roof, and we provide $788 million 
more than the President requested for the Low-Income Home Energy 
Assistance Program, which gives 2 million more families additional help 
for winter heating bills at a time of these record oil prices.

Despite the fact that violent crime is on the rise--hear this, 
violent crime is on the rise--for the first time in 15 years, the 
President wanted to cut State and local law enforcement, but--there is 
that conjunction ''but''--we have restored $1.2 billion to that unwise 
cut.

Under the President's request, 600,000 women, infants, and children 
would lose important nutrition assistance. We fully fund--yes, we fully 
fund--the WIC program.

This package also makes education a priority--education a priority--
by increasing Head Start by $114 million, stopping the proposed cut of 
30,000 slots for early childhood education. This additional $118 
million for No Child Left Behind means that tens of thousands of 
disadvantaged students will get the help they need to succeed in 
school. For college students, the amount for Pell grants is increased 
to $4,731 per year.

The President proposed to eliminate or slash numerous programs for 
our rural communities, such as rural health, rural housing, and clean 
water programs, but we have restored money for all of those programs.

The President wanted to slash funding for vital infrastructure 
programs, but we--the Congress--have increased funding: For highways? 
Yes. For repairing bridges? Yes. For airport improvements? Yes. And for 
Amtrak. Amtrak. All aboard for Amtrak.

At my direction, the bill includes a $20 million increase above the 
President's request for mine safety. Now I know something about that. I 
know something about the need for mine safety. I am the son of a coal 
miner.

This money will save lives.

Despite the failure of FEMA to adequately respond to Hurricane 
Katrina, the President wanted to slash funding by over $1.5 billion for 
first responders. We restore those cuts--how about that--and actually 
increase funding by $544 million.

I am pleased also that the bill includes $31 billion for the wars in 
Iraq--I was against that war. I said we ought not go in there; we have 
no business being in there, but we are in there--and Afghanistan--I was 
for that war--including $16 billion for the war in Afghanistan, over 
$10 billion for force protection in Iraq, such as body armor and 
systems to defeat IEDs, $1.1 billion for the Wounded Warrior program, 
and $4 billion for other programs. It is a balanced package--a balanced 
package--and I support it.

The bill invests in the security of our homeland and supports the men 
and the women who are on the front lines of protecting our communities. 
The Border Patrol will hire 3,000 more Border Patrol agents to protect 
our borders. We nearly double funding for port security, chemical 
security--we know what that is about down in the Canaan Valley of West 
Virginia--and transit and rail security. The Justice Department will 
hire 100 new U.S. Marshals, 200 DEA agents, and 160 FBI agents, and we 
provide funding for hundreds of


new cops at the State and local level. Finally, we more than double 
funding, to a total of $108 million, for screening and treating 
illnesses suffered by those who bravely responded to the 9/11 attacks 
at the World Trade Center.

Because so many Americans are worried about their mortgages and the 
specter of foreclosure, this bill adds $180 million to provide credit 
counseling and foreclosure mitigation to subprime borrowers.

These are not just meaningless numbers on an obscure government 
ledger. There are consequences for our failure to invest in America. 
Did everybody hear that? There are consequences for our failure to 
invest in America. Bridges fall, fires destroy, hurricanes devastate. 
People get sick from food that is not inspected and drugs that are not 
adequately tested. Our schools, our roads, our transportation systems 
are all in need of serious attention.

This bill is a genuine effort to compromise so that we can move 
forward. It is a balanced bill. It is the result of over a month of 
bipartisan negotiations. For the sake of the welfare of our Nation, it 
is time--time, time--to govern. The ''gotcha'' politics that prevail in 
Washington must end. To continue it damages our country from within and 
damages our country from without and discredits both political 
parties--your party, my party--both political parties.

With respect to the explanatory statement for the bill, the House-
approved amendment to H.R. 2764, was filed with the House Committee on 
Rules by Representative Obey at approximately midnight Sunday night, 
December 16, 2007. Accompanying the amendment is an explanatory 
statement contained in the Congressional Record of December 17, 2007. 
That statement, like the amendment, is the product of bipartisan, 
bicameral negotiations. The joint explanatory statement is the final 
vehicle for conveying congressional intent with respect to purposes for 
which appropriations are made.

In order to assure that there is no ambiguity as to congressional 
intent, the House amendment includes a provision that provides that the 
explanatory statement submitted by Mr. Obey and printed in the Record 
will serve the purpose of a conference report for determining 
congressional intent. I fully endorse this provision, for in its 
absence, this Administration, which strives to overturn statutory 
language in its bill signing statements, would completely ignore 
congressional intent.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.