# None
## `ee3d551f7bd8d2d4ab53aa0ed30febbc`
`Mr. GRAHAM â€” 5 March 2008`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for coming down and 
highlighting the fact that the Presidential nomination on the 
Republican side has finally come to a conclusion--Senator McCain won. 
To all those who were in the race, I think I have a little taste of how 
difficult it was for you and your families.

The Republican Party was blessed this year to have a group of 
candidates who represented the best in the Republican Party: To 
Governor Huckabee last night, he ran a great campaign; Governor Romney; 
Ron Paul--whatever you want to say about Ron Paul, he bleeds, he won 
his primary last night--and Mayor Giuliani. What a talented field we 
had on our side. It is equally true on the other side. We are going to 
have a Senator, as Senator Burr said, for both parties. I do not know 
when that last happened. But it is an exciting time.

I have had the pleasure of knowing Senator McCain for many years. 
They will write books about how this happened because our campaign ran 
into a wall in the summer. I think one of the things you can say about 
Senator McCain, as Senator Burr indicated, is that when he sets his 
mind to something, he is pretty hard to stop. He believes he has a 
little more service left in him.

If you want to know John McCain, you need to look at his family and 
the way he has lived his life--his time in the Navy. He looks at being 
President as one more chance to serve the country.

I was talking to him last night. The idea of being President is 
overwhelming. It is such a prestigious office, it is such an important 
office for the world and for our Nation. I just indicated to him: Just 
look at it as another tour of duty. This time you are Commander in 
Chief.

To the men and women in uniform out there who are serving in faraway 
places, standing watch as I speak, you are going to have a great 
Commander in Chief if John McCain wins. The other candidates are fine 
people, but I think the differences are going to be real.

Senator Clinton said something last night. She is a very strong 
competitor and you never count the Clintons out and I do admire Senator 
Clinton. This is going to be a spirited contest. But she said she 
wanted to end the war in Iraq and win in Afghanistan. Well, what the 
heck does that mean? I want to win in Iraq and I want to win in 
Afghanistan.

Senator Obama, who is a real phenomenon, who has come a long way in a 
short period of time, says the world is watching. He talked about some 
gentleman, the grandfather of one of his campaign operatives, I think 
maybe in Uganda, staying up all night to watch what we do in America. 
Senator Obama is absolutely right.

I can tell you who else is watching. Some of the most vicious killers 
known to humanity are watching what we do in terms of Iraq and the war 
on terror. They are measuring us. They are measuring our candidates for 
President.


They are seeing who blinks and who does not. They are going to watch 
what we do in the Senate, and they are looking for openings.

This is going to be a great contest. What an important time for 
America and the world. I hope we can have a civil debate. I am sure it 
will be. But the fact that there are great differences in a democracy 
is a good thing. I say to the American people, you are going to be 
blessed with some good choices. Please choose wisely because a lot of 
people depend on what you say or do.

I yield the floor.