---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION
## `ee3e980f2923db6dde7eede6354798c5`
`Mr. CONRAD — 18 October 2007`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, moments ago I heard my colleague from 
Arizona, who is a member of the Finance Committee, as am I, talking 
about eliminating the alternative minimum tax. Most of us in this 
Chamber know we have a problem with the alternative minimum tax that is 
going to affect 23 million Americans, up from nearly 4 million last 
year, if we fail to act. But the notion that we eliminate the 
alternative minimum tax and not pay for it I find breathtaking. Why? 
Because unless we replace that revenue, we will have to go out and 
borrow another $870 billion over the next 10 years. In fact, some of my 
colleagues in a meeting yesterday of the Finance Committee said let's 
not only eliminate the alternative minimum tax and not pay for it, 
let's eliminate or extend the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts and not pay for 
that either, not reduce spending or replace it with other revenue.

The effect of those proposals would be $4 trillion of additional debt 
after they have already run up the debt of the country by $3 trillion 
in the last 6 years alone, a 50-percent increase in the debt. I find 
that not just irresponsible, I find it wildly irresponsible.

From where is this money going to come? It would be borrowed. From 
whom would we borrow it? Right now, over half the money we are 
borrowing to float this Federal Government we are borrowing from abroad 
and primarily the Japanese and the Chinese.

So when my colleagues come out and say let's have a bunch more tax 
cuts and not pay for them, by either reducing spending or replacing it 
with other revenue, understand what they are saying. What they are 
saying is let's go borrow a bunch more money from China and Japan.

Some people say it is a sign of strength that they will loan us this 
money. That is an interesting idea of strength. I had a man in my 
office the other day, one of the wealthiest men in America. He said to 
me: I believe America is in danger of following the path of Great 
Britain, a great empire in decline, because we are not responsible 
about our financial commitments and we get into this idea of spending 
money we don't have and borrowing it primarily from abroad.

It leaves me cold to hear some of my colleagues talk about supporting 
every tax cut, supporting every spending initiative, wanting another 
$200 billion for the war in Iraq and not willing to pay for any of it. 
That is what will bring America down. That is what will weaken this 
country. That is what will leave us deep in debt and a debt that we 
will owe all around the world.

We are increasingly dependent on the kindness of strangers. At some 
point, we have to get serious around here and become responsible. Those 
who embrace every spending initiative of every tax cut and then call 
themselves fiscally responsible have gone beyond the pale.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.















 Amendment No. 3338
