# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `ee417e78eac257d7f0a48b4fa3ccdb59`
`Mr. BENNET — 4 May 2010`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today 
to honor the life and heroic service of Sergeant Michael K. Ingram, Jr. 
Sergeant Ingram, a member of the 1st Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, 
4th Infantry Division at Fort Carson, CO, died on April 17, 2010. 
Sergeant Ingram was serving in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in 
Kandahar, Afghanistan. He was killed by injuries sustained when an 
improvised explosive device detonated while he was on patrol. He was 23 
years old.

A native of Monroe, MI, Sergeant Ingram moved to Fort Carson when he 
was assigned to the 4th Infantry Division. Sergeant Ingram joined the 
Army in February 2006, and he was deployed to Afghanistan in May 2009.

During over 4 years of service, Sergeant Ingram distinguished himself 
through his courage, dedication to duty, and willingness to take on any 
challenge--no matter how dangerous. Commanders recognized his 
extraordinary bravery and talent, bestowing on Sergeant Ingram numerous 
awards and medals, including the Army Good Conduct Medal, the National 
Defense Service Medal, the Afghanistan Campaign Medal with Bronze 
Service Star, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, the Army 
Service Ribbon, and the Overseas Service Ribbon.

Sergeant Ingram worked on the front lines of battle, patrolling the 
most dangerous areas of Kandahar. He is remembered by those who knew 
him as a consummate professional with an unending commitment to 
excellence. Family and friends remember him for his smile and his 
commitment to service. After sustaining a mild injury, Sergeant Ingram 
was recently offered a chance to come home for surgery. He chose to 
stay with his unit and finish out his service. He planned on pursuing a 
career in law enforcement after his time in the Army.

Mark Twain once said, ''The fear of death follows from the fear of 
life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.'' Sergeant 
Ingram's service was in keeping with this sentiment--by selflessly 
putting country first, he lived life to the fullest. He lived with a 
sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat zones 
throughout Afghanistan. And though his fate on the battlefield was 
uncertain, he pushed forward, protecting America's citizens, her 
safety, and the freedoms we hold dear. For his service and the lives he 
touched, Sergeant Ingram will forever be remembered as one of our 
country's bravest.

To Sergeant Ingram's mother Patricia, his father Michael, and all his 
friends and family I cannot imagine the sorrow you must be feeling. I 
hope that, in time, the pain of your loss will be eased by your pride 
in Michael's service and by your knowledge that his country will never 
forget him. We are humbled by his service and his sacrifice.
