# SGT. MICHAEL M. KASHKOUSH POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `ee464aba97747e4bcfaa88293d831f75`
`Mr. LaTOURETTE — 5 March 2008`

---


Mr. LaTOURETTE. I thank the gentleman from Indiana for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I first want to thank Chairman Waxman and Ranking Member 
Davis for moving this legislation expeditiously through the committee 
and on to the floor today. And I want to thank the other Mr. Davis from 
Illinois and Mr. Burton for so ably managing it today as well.

Mr. Speaker, Michael Kashkoush grew up in Michigan, and then he moved 
to Chagrin Falls to start high school. He was the beloved son of Marwan 
and Mary Jane Kashkoush.

He spent his freshman and sophomore years in Chagrin Falls, and then 
moved with his family to London for a year and returned to Chagrin for 
his senior year, graduating in 2001.

Michael was like many young men. His high school years had been about 
girls, friends, lifting weights, sports, and parties. He started 
college with great intentions, but didn't find it a good fit for that 
moment in his life and, after 2 years, he announced to his parents that 
he wanted to join the Marines. The exceptionally bright and capable 
young man said that he had led a soft life and wanted to be a marine 
because ''they're the toughest and most disciplined in the world.'' The 
Marines were the matching puzzle piece for this gifted former high 
school wrestler and football player.

Michael's father urged him to finish college and instead attend 
officers school, but Michael believed he could not lead unless he knew 
what it was that the grunts had to do. Marwan Kashkoush stood behind 
his son's choice.

Michael was an exemplary marine and was promoted to sergeant in 2005 
in counterintelligence/human intelligence. He had never spoken Arabic, 
but at the Defense Language Institute in 6 short months he mastered the 
language. He had a limitless future in the Marines.

In 4 short years, the United States Marine Corps made Michael 
Kashkoush a man. They gave his self-described ''soft life'' purpose. He 
was very proud of his military service to our country. On January 23, 
2007, just 10 days after being sent to Iraq, he died while conducting 
combat operations in Anbar province.

Earlier this year, Michael's father and stepmother, Phoebe Brockman 
Kashkoush, wrote to me and asked me if I would introduce this piece of 
legislation in honor of Michael. It was a wonderful idea, and it is a 
perfect one for Chagrin Falls, Ohio.

Chagrin Falls is a small, tight-knit community where neighbors are 
close and there is a genuine sense of community. It is a place where 
there are almost as many American flags as front porches, and when one 
of their own died, it deeply touched the community.

Chagrin Falls, a town of about 4,000 people, turned out en masse for 
the funeral services, and some 600 people crammed into St. Joan of Arc 
Catholic Church, where they sang a joyful, tearful rendition of Don 
McLean's ''American Pie.'' The Jaycees adorned street posts with 
hundreds of flags, and more than 300 people walked the half-mile trek 
from the church down South Franklin Street in blustery snow to 
Michael's final resting place.

It is fitting, Mr. Speaker, that the Chagrin Falls Post Office be 
named in honor of Sergeant Michael Kashkoush, and it is a wonderful 
remembrance for a family who has lost so much.

The father who first resisted his son's plan to enlist credits the 
Marines with changing his life. He said, ''They built me my best 
friend.''