# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `ee527f2ee219abcc220a59d7b92e0754`
`Mr. WARNER — 8 September 2008`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I first wish to congratulate my colleague 
of some 30 years that we have worked together on the Senate Armed 
Services Committee. Under his leadership this year, we passed the 2008 
bill unanimously by the committee in April. Here we are in September, 
and we are finally getting to the opportunity presented to our 
colleagues and, hopefully, this week we will act on this bill.

Earlier this afternoon, the distinguished majority leader and the 
minority leader addressed the Senate on their express hope that this 
bill will be acted on expeditiously and done so within this week. That 
will require, however, in my judgment--and I speak only for myself--a 
unanimous consent request relating to the amendment process. We are 
anxious to receive amendments from our colleagues, but unless we 
maintain some order in terms of relevant amendments, I am fearful we 
will not be able to expeditiously handle this bill. That is a matter 
that is now being quite fairly and forthrightly worked upon by the 
respective majority and minority leaders, and certainly my 
distinguished colleague, Senator Levin, and I have discussed this 
together and have a joint recommendation for our leadership.

I also wish to express my appreciation to our professional staff, 
both majority and minority, who have worked on this bill throughout the 
summer. Such that on the assumption that we can pass it and then get to 
a conference we will have beforehand reconciled some of the differences 
between--that is on an informal basis, but on a formal basis, we will 
be able to reconcile in a conference this bill and then bring it back 
in the form of a conference report.

This will be the forty-third--bill No. 43--consecutive authorization 
bill adopted by the Senate. I am hopeful the unbroken record of 42 
consecutive times will now be the 43rd, and that puts the Senate 
clearly on record as supporting the men and women of the Armed Forces 
of the United States who most justly deserve all the support we can 
give them. I point out that we have a specific constitutional 
responsibility toward the men and women of the Armed Forces. It is this 
bill, coupled with such appropriations as may be acted upon by other 
committees--this is the discharge of our constitutional responsibility.

We are at a very dangerous crossroads in the history of the world. 
Our forces today are fighting in two theaters--Iraq and Afghanistan--
and are standing watch on many other theaters and outposts across the 
world. They are facing the threats of militant extremists at home, 
worldwide, abroad, in all corners of the globe. We are also astounded 
by the performance of what heretofore we thought was a supporting 
partner in world affairs--Russia--by virtue of their aggressions in 
Georgia, and the instability in Pakistan, a major non-NATO ally but 
nevertheless a major ally. Hopefully, with the election of a new 
President, that country can begin to govern itself strongly because it 
is very important, with our forces on the border of Pakistan and our 
operations against the insurgents and the Taliban in Afghanistan, it is 
essential we have the strongest of working relationships with Pakistan. 
Then we have, unfortunately, the nuclear ambitions and the hostile 
behavior of Iran. All of those propose a profound and wide-ranging 
challenge for U.S. interests and our friends and our allies in the 
international community as a whole.

We are fortunate today that the people in the United States of 
America are so supportive of our Armed Forces. I have had the privilege 
to observe this Nation in previous conflicts beginning in World War II. 
In World War II 16 million men and women of the Armed Forces were 
greeted when they returned home from a solid victory against the axis 
powers, as well as those of the Pacific. Then, following the Korean 
conflict, again I had the opportunity to observe firsthand the 
deterioration of the support in the many respects it was given to the 
Armed Forces who fought so bravely in that conflict. I pause to think 
that we have celebrated the 55th anniversary of that conflict. Over 
30,000 Americans--Americans in uniform--lost their lives in that 
conflict. Another 90,000 were wounded. Today, currently, 8,000 are 
still unaccounted for.

So we have a different attitude today. In Vietnam, we likewise 
experienced a lot of antagonism against the men and women of the Armed 
Forces. Today, this country is united behind those men and women and 
giving support to their brave families.

We have also had the good fortune for 35 years to have an All-
Volunteer Force. This bill is constructed to continue that support of 
the All-Volunteer Force. I can recall, in the Vietnam period, I was 
privileged to be Secretary of the Navy--Under Secretary for some 5 
years--that the constricted force experienced a lot of problems. It was 
during that period in 1973, I remember vividly that the then-Secretary 
of Defense, Melvin Laird, had the vision to have the All-Volunteer 
Force. It eventually came into law with the support of the Congress. It 
was a major gamble, I say to my colleagues--a major gamble. It was the 
first significant large military power in the world--the United States 
of America--to try and have this national security policy, this 
national security defended by all volunteers, but it has worked and 
worked well beyond the early concepts we had in mind. It has been a 
superb military force that has preserved America's freedom.

We also have in this bill a reflection on the future needs of our 
Armed Forces. This bill will provide better compensation and first-rate 
health care to improve the quality of life of the men and women on 
Active Duty and in the National Guard and Reserve and their families. I 
will enumerate a number of provisions in this bill that address those 
issues.

We also authorize Active Duty end strengths, increases for the Army 
to go to 532,000-plus and for the Marine Corps, 194,000-plus, 
respectively. We authorize an increase of 3,371 full-time personnel for 
the Army National Guard and the Army Reserve. We authorize the costs of 
special pay and allowances, death benefits, and permanent change of 
station moves. It authorizes $26 billion for the Defense Health 
Program. It requires the Secretary of Defense to develop a 
comprehensive policy to prevent, regrettably, the increasing rate of 
suicides.

So I say to my colleagues, this bill is absolutely essential--
absolutely essential--and it provides the statutory authorities that 
our men and women of the Armed Forces need to succeed in combat and 
stability operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.

We will authorize those funds necessary to seek to reduce our 
Nation's strategic risks by taking action to restore, as soon as 
possible, the readiness


of the military services to conduct the full range of their assigned 
missions. I wish to correct that by saying by taking the action aimed 
at fully restoring, since much of our military is in a state of high 
readiness today.

This bill will improve the efficiency of Defense Department programs 
and activities, promote the transformation of the Armed Forces to deal 
with the threats of the 21st century, and improve the ability of the 
Armed Forces to counter nontraditional threats, including terrorism and 
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.

In addition, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2009 includes authorization of $24.8 billion in Division B for military 
construction, BRAC, and family housing programs. Because MILCON 
projects require a line item authorization by law, and considered new-
starts, DOD will not be able to carry out any new project in fiscal 
year 2009 if this bill is not enacted.

Of the 24.8 billion, $11.7 billion is for military construction, $3.2 
billion for the construction and operation of family housing, and $9.1 
billion to implement the results of the 2005 BRAC.

Within the BRAC account, 282 projects are at risk across the country, 
including critical construction to establish new hospitals at the Naval 
Medical Center, Bethesda, MD; Fort Belvior, VA; and Fort Sam Houston, 
TX, to facilitate the closure of inadequate facilities at the Walter 
Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, DC. Other critical BRAC 
construction at Fort Bliss, TX, and Fort Benning, GA, is required to 
facilitate the return of U.S. forces from overseas locations and the 
establishment of new modular units. Also BRAC construction at Eglin Air 
Force Base, FL, is required to support the joint Air Force and Navy 
training.

In closing, this is an important bill that takes care of our troops 
and their families. It sustains a national treasure, the All Volunteer 
Force, and authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and the 
national security programs of the Department of Energy.

I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of the motion to proceed to the 
Defense authorization bill for the sake of the men and women in uniform 
and in spirit of Article I, section 8 of the Constitution that assigns 
to Congress the powers ''to raise and support Armies'' and ''to provide 
and maintain a Navy.''

Mr. President, I defer to our distinguished Chairman. Again, I 
congratulate the chairman on bringing this bill to the floor.

I yield the floor.