# None
## `ee542074bf7d510430929929302ea44f`
`Mr. CARDIN â€” 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, nearly a year ago, when President Bush 
announced his decision to send 30,000 additional troops to Iraq, he 
predicted that increased U.S. troop levels would stabilize the country 
so that its national leaders could reach political agreement. More 
troops would enable us to accelerate training initiatives so that the 
Iraqi army and police force could assume control of all security in the 
country by November 2007. According to this plan, the Iraqi army and 
police force were to assume control of Iraq's security last month.

Well, the information before us in December, like the reports before 
us in September and July, show us that President Bush's troop 
escalation hasn't delivered on the President's promises. It has failed 
to stem the civil war going on in Iraq, failed to allow Iraqi forces to 
take control over their own security, and failed to lead to political 
reconciliation. That failure was clear when I last came to the floor to 
discuss this issue in September, and it is clear today.

With troop levels still 24,000 above where they were a year ago, and 
with no plans to lower them below pre-surge levels, not even President 
Bush's claims that substantial progress toward the ultimate goal of the 
escalation--political reconciliation--has occurred. There have been no 
agreements on de-Ba'athification reform, oil revenue sharing, 
provincial elections, or amnesty laws, nor has the Iraqi government or 
the Administration offered a clear plan for achieving a sustainable 
political reconciliation. Just 2 days ago, LTG Raymond Odierno, the No. 
2 commander of U.S. forces in Iraq, was quoted pleading with the Iraqi 
government to make progress on national reconciliation and improving 
basic services.

Our country's resources remain locked in Iraq. Iran is emboldened. 
Insurgent violence is at its highest level in Afghanistan since U.S.-
led forces first ousted the Taliban and our military reports signs of 
al Qaeda is returning to Afghanistan from Iraq. Pakistan is facing 
political turmoil and Turkey has begun military incursions into Iraq's 
Kurdish regions.

We have to change our mission in Iraq. The cost of further delay in 
lives, materiel, treasure, and our standing in the world is too great. 
The United States cannot impose the political reconciliation necessary 
to bring long-lasting security to that nation. It is time to direct our 
resources toward the rest of the region and to needs here at home.

A new policy begins by removing our troops from the middle of a civil 
war and giving them a more realistic mission, one that is in the best 
interests of Iraq and the United States. Given the facts and the 
realities independent reports provide us, I continue to support an 
amendment, this time sponsored by Senators Feingold and Reid, to change 
our mission in Iraq from providing security and services to a focus on 
training, counter-terrorism and force protection.

I voted against an amendment to add $40 billion to the omnibus 
spending package without any limits on the President's use of that 
money. The military has no immediate need for additional funds for 
Iraq. Congress just passed a $456 billion Defense Appropriations bill. 
The omnibus provides the Army and Marine Corps an additional $20 
billion. Given the Department of Defense's ability to shift funds, this 
money should pay for the war through March. We will have a chance to 
vote on additional funding next year when we will have more information 
about trends on the ground in Iraq.

Further, while negotiating this year's spending levels this President 
has vetoed additional health and education funding and refused to 
negotiate over a modest increase in overall appropriations to fund 
critical needs here at home, and he continues to insist Congress fund a 
failed strategy in Iraq. The President's intransigence undermines our 
position in the world and has left this Congress fewer resources to 
direct toward priorities here at home. Those are the wrong priorities 
for our nation.

The world has an interest in a safe and secure Iraq. It is time to 
take steps to protect our troops and our all volunteer force, change 
the mission, step up our diplomatic efforts, and internationalize the 
effort to bring stability to that country and to the Middle East.

We don't need additional funds for Iraq, we need a new direction.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.