---
---

# COPS IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `ee5bb6e0608286a219ee2dc72e5ae708`
`Mr. HOYER — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, as our Nation commemorates National Police 
Week this week and the 26th Annual National Peace Officers' Memorial 
Day today (May 15), let us honor the memory of those who have fallen in 
the line of duty and thank those who carry on their legacy, serving in 
communities across this Nation, keeping the peace, and protecting the 
American people.

It is altogether fitting that today--with thousands of peace officers 
in Washington to commemorate these events--the Members of this House 
will consider this very important bipartisan legislation, the COPS 
Improvements Act of 2007.

Mr. Speaker, when we pass this bill, the new Democratic Majority in 
this House will again demonstrate its absolute commitment to taking 
decisive action that protects our communities and combats crime.

In short, this legislation reauthorizes the highly successful 
Community Oriented Policing Services Program, or COPS, which was 
enacted in 1994 under the Clinton Administration and which helped local 
law enforcement agencies hire 117,000 additional officers between 1995 
and 2005--including 908 officers in Maryland's Fifth Congressional 
District.

In fact, the COPS hiring program--with its emphasis on getting more 
cops on the beat--is credited with reducing the crime rate.

The nonpartisan General Accountability Office, for example, concluded 
in one study (and I quote): ''COPS-funded increases in sworn officers 
per capita were associated with declines in rates of total index 
crimes, violent crimes and property crime.''

Unfortunately, however, the former House Majority sharply reduced the 
funding for the universal hiring program under COPS in recent years--
from more than $1 billion a year in the late 1990s, to $10 million in 
2005, to the complete elimination of hiring grants in 2006.

Mr. Speaker, let's put these figures in perspective. One billion 
dollars a years for COPS hiring grants is not an insubstantial sum. But 
today, in Iraq, our Nation is spending approximately $10 billion a 
month--or $2.5 billion a week.

House Democrats believe it is imperative to reinvigorate the 
successful COPS program. And thus, this legislation calls for putting 
50,000 additional police officers on the streets over the next 6 years 
by authorizing $600 million a year for COPS hiring grants.

Furthermore, this bill authorizes $350 million a year for COPS 
technology grants, and $200 million a year for hiring community 
prosecutors.

Mr. Speaker, today, through this bipartisan legislation, this House 
will demonstrate that it is committed to protecting and strengthening 
America's communities.

We will demonstrate that the Federal Government is a committed 
partner in protecting Americans not only from the threat posed by 
international terrorism, but also from the dangers posed by domestic 
crime.

I urge my colleagues: Support the COPS Improvements Act.