# IRAQ
## `ee5ea308e8def5b10f54773b5ff11ab1`
`Mr. KENNEDY â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Yet there are still more than 8 million children in 
America with no health coverage, and there is a health care crisis for 
our Nation's children. But what does the President propose to do about 
it? His budget will make the crisis even worse by cutting 400,000 
children from the Children's Health Insurance Program.

It comes from our seniors and our disabled citizens. The President's 
budget cuts $66 billion from Medicare, which is a lifeline to millions 
of retirees and disabled Americans. If the President has his way, more 
than 700,000 people in Massachusetts who rely on Medicare could see the 
quality of their care go down.

It comes from those battling mental illnesses. Each year, 25 percent 
of Americans suffer from some sort of mental illness. We owe it to them 
and their families to do all we can to ensure they are able to lead 
full and productive lives. Yet the President's budget cuts mental 
health assistance by $159 million.

It comes from Hurricane Katrina victims. Despite massive ongoing 
needs on the gulf coast, the President's budget offers no additional 
assistance to help people rebuild their lives.

It comes from the Nation's defense against epidemics, such as the 
flu, as the President proposes to slash funding for the Centers for 
Disease Control by $165 million.

It comes from Medicaid, our health care lifeline for the poor, which 
the President intends to cut by $50 billion over the next 10 years. In 
Massachusetts, 880,000 citizens depend on Medicaid, and this budget 
places them at risk.

It comes from our children's education. The President's budget 
underfunds the No Child Left Behind reforms by almost $15 billion. In 
my State of Massachusetts, these cuts would leave behind more than 
51,000 children. Nationwide, we have 3.5 million children who are not 
participating in the program whatsoever. Yet they will have a 
requirement to meet sufficiency in the year 2012.

It comes from our youngest children. By cutting $107 million from the 
Head Start Program, the President fails to give the youngest children a 
strong start in life. This is a program which is tried, tested, and 
true.

It comes from our students with special needs. When we passed the 
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, we made a promise to 
disabled children and their families that they were to receive the 
education they deserve. President Bush's budget breaks that promise by 
cutting funding to IDEA by $290 million. We made the commitment we were 
going to provide 40 percent of all the funding. We are now at about 18 
percent of funding, and we are reducing that. It is shifting the burden 
onto the families and the local communities.

It comes from school safety. Our children ought to be able to go to 
school without fearing violence, but this budget cuts funding for Safe 
and Drug-Free Schools. With all the challenges of schools and violence 
in schools, it cuts back the funding for Safe and Drug-Free Schools.

It comes at the expense of our teachers. Over the next decade, this 
Nation will need to hire 2 million more teachers, but this budget cuts 
funding for teacher quality grants.

It comes at the expense of students. At a time when college costs are 
skyrocketing, the President's budget completely eliminates the Perkins 
Loan Program, which over 500,000 students depend on to help them afford 
a college education. We know that a college degree is a ticket to a 
bright and better future, but this budget closes the college door 
instead of opening it wider. There are already 400,000 young people who 
are qualified to get into our fine community colleges, public colleges, 
and private colleges and don't do so because of a lack of funding.

It comes from our workers who are looking for good jobs to support 
their families because the President's budget slashes $1 billion from 
programs that train Americans for jobs. Madam President, listen to 
this: In Massachusetts alone, there are 25,000 people waiting to be 
enrolled in job training programs.

In Boston, there are 25 applicants for each job training slot. There 
are 78,000 jobs that are out there today that are looking for trained 
people, 25 people for every training slot, 275,000 people who are 
unemployed. What is wrong with


this picture? We are cutting back on the training opportunities for 
those individuals to be able to pay more in taxes and provide more 
hopeful futures for their children.

This budget can find $200 billion more for the war in Iraq but not a 
dime for people at home trying to better their lives. They come from 
families who need help putting food on the table. The President wants 
to cut the Food Stamp Program by $600 million, leaving nearly 300,000 
families wondering where they are going to find the next meal for 
themselves and their children.

I have had the chance to visit our absolutely spectacular food bank 
in Boston, and they talk about the increased numbers that they already 
have. This is going to even put more pressure on those food banks and 
more pressure on those families. It comes from the poor struggling 
against the bitter cold, as the budget cuts 17 percent of the funding 
for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which helps low-
income families afford to heat their homes.

In my State, if you use home heating oil you need to fill your tank 
generally three times a winter--three times a winter. Families are down 
now where they are only able to fill--the needy who qualify for this--
less than half a tank for the whole winter. We know what is happening. 
People make the choices between the prescription drugs they need, the 
food they need, and the heat they need for their homes. We are cutting 
that program by 17 percent.

Perhaps most tragically of all, the money for the war in Iraq comes 
from our veterans themselves. Nearly half the troops returning from 
Iraq will require health care services to cope with the physical or 
mental toll of the war. Yet the President's budget underfunds veterans' 
health. It provides only half the increase in funding required for the 
VA to keep pace with the needs of our veterans.

In Massachusetts alone, there are 453,000 veterans who have served 
our country when they were called to duty, and we have a moral 
obligation to do all we can for them.

This is the cost of this war. This is all for a war that never should 
have happened, for a war that should be brought to an end. Yet this 
administration is allowing it to go on and on, with mistake after 
mistake after mistake. This terrible war is having an effect not only 
on our troops, who are paying the highest price, but on our children, 
our elderly, our schools, our workers, and the poor here at home.

While the President forges ahead with a surge in Iraq, the American 
people need a surge here at home. Americans see the cost of health care 
and the cost of college going up. What about a surge in our health and 
education policies to meet those needs? Americans here at home worry 
about their economic security, about their jobs and stagnant wages, how 
they can support themselves on their wages. How about a surge here at 
home to help meet their needs?

Last week, we met with our Nation's mayors. They described the 
problem of school dropouts, how these young people are turning to crime 
in our communities, the proliferation of murders and youth homicides 
and suicides. Where is the surge to address that problem? No wonder the 
American people are growing angrier and angrier as the war wages on. 
They expect Congress to be an effective restraint on the President and 
his abuse of the War Powers Act.

Opposition to the escalation is clear already. How much clearer does 
it have to be before Republicans in Congress and the President finally 
respond to the voice of the American people? When will this war be 
brought to an end? An escalation now would be an immense mistake, 
compounding the original misguided decision to invade Iraq. Public 
support for the war does not exist. There is no support for this 
escalation. We have surged our forces four times in the past, and each 
time the situation hasn't changed.

The President cannot continue to unilaterally impose his failing 
policy on Americans who have already rejected it. Congress has the 
responsibility to stop the President from sending more of our sons and 
daughters to die in this civil war. The legislation on which the 
Democrats seek a vote is our first effort to meet that responsibility. 
It is our chance to go on record in opposition to the surge. It is a 
clarion call for change.