---
---

# None
## `ee62d325622503ae2f31df5ce3ae833d`
`Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California — 18 March 2009`

---


Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. Members of the House, I want to 
begin by thanking all of you for your support for this legislation, for 
the bipartisan support we have received throughout the committee 
deliberations in our committee, and the support that we received both 
in the Rules Committee and on the floor today.

As we went through the amendment process, Members of Congress from 
both sides of the aisle spoke in favor of this most important American 
value, and that is service to our country, service to our neighbors, 
service to our communities, and that's what's reflected in this 
legislation. It is a rather remarkable mosaic of organizations and 
individuals from every corner of this country, from large cities to 
small rural towns that have responded to the needs of others, and they 
have responded without question. They have responded with their skills, 
their talents, and they have come forth to build a stronger America and 
a better community.

Earlier today at an event that we had with many of the volunteers to 
discuss this legislation, we were honored with the presence of Captain 
Scott Quilty, who retired from the Army after 10 years of service as a 
decorated infantry captain and Army Ranger during his tour in Iraq, 
where he led a platoon assigned to train, assess and build the 
operational capacity of a 460-man element of the Iraqi Army.



In that tour of duty, he lost an arm and a leg. When he returned to 
America, as if he hadn't given enough service to America, he 
immediately joined the organization of Survivor Corps to help our 
returning vets when they come back to this country after serving in 
Afghanistan, Iraq, and other places around the world, to reintegrate 
with their families, their communities, their schools, their jobs, 
their friends, their neighbors.

We were honored with Scott Quilty. And at that very same service, a 
gentleman walked up to me and handed me these, many of us see this when 
we tour our Army bases or our Air Force Bases or meet with the troops, 
it's called the Young Marines, and they do much of the same service. 
They give their time to our veterans. But they are not the only ones. 
We have senior grandparents, we have Teach For America, we have 
Jumpstart, we have Americans doing all of this.

We have Americans in the AmeriCorps that organized over 300,000 hours 
of volunteer service when the floods hit Iowa. They were there first. 
They came with their first responders in California with the wildfires 
and with the floods. They showed up early and they stayed late with 
Katrina and Rita.

This is what we celebrate with this legislation, and I want to thank 
you for your support and your good words on behalf of these people, 
Americans all, who step forward every time one of us needs them or the 
community needs them.

This legislation will strengthen and enable more Americans to be able 
to do so. It will tie in an educational benefit so that young children 
can have a service experience in middle school and high school and 
schools will become the center of service for young people in their 
communities.

Now let me get to the motion to recommit. I think, as we have only 
seen it for a few minutes, I think most of the motion to recommit is, 
in fact, already covered in statutes, regulations and the grant 
agreements that are issued. We are well aware of these issues. The 
Members on both sides of the aisle have spoken to them, and they have 
offered statutes, not only in this act, but in other acts, making sure 
that people who get these grants don't engage in activities that they 
should not be.

So we plan to accept this amendment. I appreciate the gentlewoman 
offering it, and we will take it to conference.

But, again, I want to thank you for supporting this legislation in 
advance of your support, and I would ask that you feel free to vote for 
the motion to recommit.

Again, I ask for passage of the bill.

I yield back the balance of my time.