---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `ee68f13bb6b8d450b47882eaaeab9bff`
`Ms. LEE â€” 13 March 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Chairman, let me say a couple of things as I close in 
response to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle.

First, let me just talk about the argument with regard to tax 
increases. Our budget provides for tax fairness. We want to bring back 
some real justice in the Tax Code. Let me just say to you that the 
Progressive Caucus believes that individuals earning $1 million or more 
a year, which is the top 1 percent of our country, that those tax 
breaks should be rolled back, the tax bracket should be rolled back to 
39.6 percent. That raises at least $96 billion. I finally think that 
that $96 billion can be put into restoring some of the very draconian 
cuts in our budget to initiatives such as education and health care 
which the President has cut.

Secondly, we're talking about repealing capital gains and dividends 
tax breaks raises at least $74.4 billion. I think that that $74.4 
billion can restore the 50 education programs, including student 
financial aid, which the President has sought to cut. We also want to 
roll back the estate tax break, raising at least $74 billion. I think 
that that $74 billion can go to restore those deep cuts to highway 
infrastructure or, of all things he is slashing, support for law 
enforcement. I think that those resources could better be used in those 
areas.

Also, we're talking about in terms of repealing all additional tax 
breaks for the top 1 percent. That means we have $177 billion. Maybe 
that could go to help restore the energy assistance for low-income 
families that the President cut. Or maybe it could go to restore the 
renewable energy and energy conservation programs that the President 
decided to cut.

And what about this when you talk about tax increases? How about what 
we want to do to eliminate the corporate tax incentives for offshore 
jobs? The Tax Code has a number of preferences that directly or 
indirectly encourages, mind you, encourages United States companies to 
relocate operations and jobs overseas. How about using those revenues 
to create some jobs and to invest in job training programs which, of 
course, the President wants to cut in his budget? That makes sense to 
me. That's about fairness. That's not about tax increases.

We're not talking about increasing taxes on middle-income 
individuals. We're talking about tax fairness, restoring some tax 
fairness to the Tax Code. And I don't believe that anyone in our 
country, if they knew the bogus nature, I think, of this argument with 
regard to what all of us are trying to do to bring some fairness into 
the Tax Code, I think the American people would say, what is wrong with 
raising revenue from those making over $1 million a year? They actually 
didn't really support that tax cut when they received it, so what's 
wrong with creating jobs in our own country rather than giving tax 
breaks for sending jobs offshore? I don't think the American people see 
that as being the wrong way to use our tax dollars. I don't think that 
they would worry at all about us repealing some of these estate taxes 
and individual tax breaks for the 1 percent.

And so I think that when you talk about tax increases, we need to be 
honest and say what we're really talking about, and that's giving tax 
breaks, continuing to give tax breaks for the very wealthy while our 
young people, our children, our senior citizens, the poor, low-income, 
middle-income individuals are struggling to just manage to survive 
through this recession that has been created, yes, by many of these tax 
cuts, but also by this deep hole that we are digging in terms of the 
Iraq war and the Iraq recession.

I yield to the gentleman from Michigan.