---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `ee70bbee81939bcc5bc1682931a9887c`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, before my colleague from Oregon leaves, I 
don't think there is anybody in this body who is more respected than 
Senator Gordon Smith. He is a very sincere, thoughtful guy who tries to 
personalize issues that affect people throughout this country. I know 
he is motivated by all the right reasons, but somebody needs to talk 
about the politics.

This legislation has been placed on the Defense authorization bill in 
the past. It never made it out of conference because we knew, with the 
makeup of the conference, the amendment would fall. Given the makeup of 
this conference, the amendment will be part of the bill and it is going 
to be vetoed. That is the politics. Whether one agrees with President 
Bush, he said he is going to veto this bill, and if I were him, I would 
as Commander in Chief. I would not buy into this way of legislating.

Another reason for this amendment, if you think there is a gap in 
military law that without this kind of amendment the military is not 
going to prosecute people who act on their prejudices, you are wrong. 
If someone in uniform commits a crime against a civilian or another 
person in uniform, I don't care why they did it; if they beat somebody 
up, hurt somebody, they are going to get prosecuted. That is the way 
the military law works.

We are not doing the military a favor by passing this legislation 
because there is no problem in the military in terms of how justice is 
administered. Whatever motivates you to hurt someone or to take the law 
in your own hands or act on your prejudices, you are going to be dealt 
with because we cannot have good order and discipline in the military 
when people can hurt someone based on their individual prejudice 
because the whole unit falls apart. This is nothing the military needs. 
They are going to take care of violence in the ranks based on the law 
they already have.

I can assure my colleagues that no one in the military gets a pass 
because of the status of their victim. If you engage in violent 
conduct, inappropriate behavior, illegal behavior, the law is going to 
come down on your head because we need good order and discipline.

The politics of this amendment is that this bill will get vetoed. The 
President is not going to agree to this social legislation on the 
Defense authorization bill, and we have to take responsibility for that 
action. Whether one agrees with him or not, we are going to put in 
jeopardy items the military does need. They don't need a hate crimes 
bill to make it an effective fighting force. We already have 
disciplinary tools to discipline people. They need pay raises and MRAP 
protection, and this bill provides those items.

Members of this body have different views about hate crimes 
legislation. We can argue those differences any time, anywhere, on any 
other piece of


legislation. It can be brought up as a freestanding bill. But to put it 
on this bill is going to put in jeopardy items our men and women who 
are in combat and being shot at need. When I go to Iraq, I don't have a 
lot of people coming up to me saying we need to pass a hate crimes 
bill. They do need better body armor. They do need pay raises. They do 
need better MRAPs.

I think this is a very poor use of the legislative process knowing 
the end game. The end game is, we are going to hijack the Defense 
authorization bill by legislation not needed in the military, that is 
contentious, and that has an opportunity to be debated somewhere else. 
I hope reason prevails eventually.

I yield the floor.