---
---

# INTRODUCTION OF RESOLUTION EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE HOUSE OF
## `ee71a57c0f3d84c429f75c41ee1ea6d0`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 5 May 2010`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce a 
resolution recognizing the United States' longstanding ties with 
Thailand and our strong wish for a peaceful, democratic resolution to 
the country's ongoing political problems.

In an important development on Monday, Prime Minister Abhisit 
Vejjajiva announced that he plans to hold new elections on November 14, 
2010, based on a plan which calls on all parties to join together in 
upholding the monarchy, on the government to carry out economic and 
political reforms, and on the nation to create an independent committee 
to investigate casualties resulting from the clash of April 10, 2010.

Fortunately, the response from most quarters to the Prime Minister's 
suggestions has been positive. The plan and the elections offer a 
process that I believe can serve as the basis for an amicable end to 
the dispute. The resolution I am offering today is meant to encourage 
that process, to demonstrate America's commitment to Thailand and its 
people and to convey our sincere hope that Thailand returns to 
democracy, stability and the rule of law.

Thailand is one of United States' closest friends and most dependable 
allies. Ours is a partnership steeped in history. Indeed, the first 
treaty we concluded with an Asian nation was with Thailand in 1833, 
with the signing of the Treaty of Amity and Commerce between Siam and 
the United States. In 1954, we forged a military alliance, and in 2003 
the United States designated Thailand a major non-NATO ally. Thailand 
contributed troops and support for U.S. military operations in Korea, 
Vietnam, the Persian Gulf, Afghanistan and Iraq.

Thailand is also a major trading partner of the United States, a 
regional leader, a force for stability in Southeast Asia and a country 
with which we share common values and interests. We have always 
appreciated Thailand's many international contributions, and we respect 
and admire its unique culture.

Of course, only the Thai people can chart their way toward settlement 
of the conflict. As a close friend of Thailand, however, the United 
States should, I believe, offer its support and demonstrate its 
concern. This resolution does just that, encouraging all sides to 
address the country's political problems peacefully and democratically, 
based on the national reconciliation plan offered by the Prime 
Minister.

I might add that I introduced this resolution on ''Chattra 
Mongkhon.'' It is on this day that the country commemorates the 
ascension to the throne of His Majesty, King Bhumibol Adulyadej. It is 
a day when all Thai people pay their respects to His Majesty and wish 
him a long, healthy and happy life. I can think of no better way for 
this body to honor His Majesty and the people of Thailand than to voice 
support for peaceful reconciliation on this important day. I urge all 
my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution and moving it 
toward speedy adoption.
