# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `ee744643d99b568f165cb80a3f87d871`
`Mr. CORNYN — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Thank you, Mr. President.















 Amendment No. 101


Mr. President, I want to talk specifically about the second-look-at-
wasteful-spending amendment which is pending and that we will vote on 
here in a few moments. I hope to come back later today, perhaps, and 
talk more generally about the minimum wage bill that is pending, the 
underlying bill, and talk about how I hope our goal would be to train 
and educate American workers to fill good, high-paying jobs that 
currently go wanting for lack of a trained workforce. I would hope we 
would spend at least as much of our efforts on training them, providing 
them the alternatives to earn those higher, good wages as we spend 
focusing on the 2.5 percent of the workforce who actually earn the 
minimum wage--generally people who are starting into the workforce: 
teenagers, part-time workers, and the like--and how, notwithstanding 
our best of intentions, some of our actions here, by Government 
actually setting a minimum wage, may actually put some of them out of 
work.

But I would focus on the second-look-at-wasteful-spending amendment 
and challenge our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, in a good 
way.

Since we have come back after the election, and we have this new 
110th Congress, we have heard a lot of very appropriate commentary on 
both sides of the aisle about the importance of our working together in 
order to solve some of the Nation's most serious problems. The 
President talked about that last night. One of the areas the President 
spoke about last night in his State of the Union Message--and I hear an 
awful lot about from my constituents--is concern about wasteful 
spending.

Indeed, a lot of what we did on a bipartisan basis this last week on 
lobbying and ethics reform was to turn the bright light of public 
scrutiny on the earmark process--special appropriations stuck in bills 
that frequently benefit individuals and groups--to turn the bright 
light on those, offer greater transparency, so the public can know how 
their tax dollars are being spent and, hopefully, people understanding 
that whatever they do will be exposed to public scrutiny, they will 
make sure their conduct in doing so conforms with the highest ethical 
standards they have a right to expect from us.

But the fact is that Presidents on both sides of the aisle--President 
Clinton, when he was President; now President Bush--have sought the 
authority of the line-item veto or, in this instance, what we are 
talking about is the so-called enhanced rescission. It is a process 
where the President, once an appropriations bill is sent over to him, 
highlights a concern he or she has about an appropriations bill, and 
sends it back over to the Congress to reconsider.

This is a way to provide the kind of laser-like focus we need to have 
on wasteful spending projects that occasionally--some might say more 
than occasionally--creep into our Federal appropriations process.

In the spirit of bipartisanism that I think the American people would 
like to see when confronting some of our biggest challenges, my hope 
would be that Members of this Congress--Members of this Senate--on a 
bipartisan basis, would support the very kind of bill this represents, 
and that they were advocating for when Senator Daschle, the Democratic 
leader, offered and sponsored with the support of at least 21 Democrats 
when President Clinton was in office.

I hold up a chart. I showed this yesterday, but I think it is worth 
looking at again. This chart is a comparison of the Daschle and Gregg 
expedited rescission amendments. You can see in all respects the 
Daschle amendment--here, again, Tom Daschle, the Senator from South 
Dakota, the leader of the Democrats in the Senate, offered an amendment 
which in all respects, except two--I will talk about that in a minute--
is the same as Senator Gregg is proposing, the so-called second-look-
at-wasteful-spending amendment.

The only two ways they differ is that the Gregg amendment does permit 
rescission of new mandatory spending. If you look at the places where 
money is being spent fastest in the Federal budget, it is in mandatory 
or entitlement


programs, which are going up at the rate of 8 percent or more a year, 
on autopilot. I applaud Senator Gregg for including a provision that 
permits rescission of new mandatory spending programs.

But that and permitting four rescission packages annually, those are 
the two areas where the Gregg amendment differs, albeit in a relatively 
minor way, from what Senator Daschle proposed in 1995.

You will see on this next chart, here is a list of the current Senate 
Democrats who supported the Daschle amendment in 1995. My hope would 
be, with this little refresher for our colleagues who actually 
supported this good policy back in 1995, that they would see fit to 
vote to close off debate and to actually have an up-or-down vote on the 
Gregg amendment.

As I said, if it was good policy in 1995, supported by these good 
Democratic colleagues, I think they would agree--I would hope they 
would agree--it is a good policy in 2007 or, if it is not, I would hope 
they would come to the floor and explain their change of heart because 
I think it would represent a change in position.

So this amendment goes to the heart of what I hear people express 
their concerns about most as I travel back in my State and as I read 
and listen to people's concerns, as expressed through the media, that 
Federal spending and our failure to be good trustees of the Federal tax 
dollar is one of their biggest concerns, along, obviously, with 
national security issues such as the war in Iraq. The other issue I 
hear a lot about--the President talked about it last night--is 
immigration reform.

Mr. President, I see the budget chairman on the floor, and I know he 
and Senator Gregg have committed to work on a bipartisan basis to try 
to deal with not just these issues, such as earmarks that abuse the 
public trust, and which somehow slip into our appropriations process, 
but to look at the larger picture and try to figure out how we can 
sustain some of the most important programs the American people have 
come to rely upon, things such as Social Security and Medicare, and 
that we not continue to spend in a way that imposes a financial burden 
for those programs on our children and grandchildren. That raises a 
profound moral issue that I believe we must confront.

So I do appreciate the efforts that are being made to try to deal 
with some of our hardest problems. I think there is a great opportunity 
provided here. Some might find this a little surprising for me to say 
being a Republican, but I think divided Government provides an 
opportunity for this body to do some very big and important and 
significant things. I do not think politics has to be a zero-sum game 
where Democrats win and Republicans lose, or Republicans win and 
Democrats lose in the public policymaking process. I think we can all 
win, and in so doing the American people can win, if we will simply 
come together in a commonsense, result-oriented sort of way and try to 
solve some of these problems.

I think Senator Gregg's amendment picks up on the wisdom of Senator 
Daschle's amendment back in 1995. And I frankly would be perplexed if 
we were unable to get the kind of bipartisan support to close off 
debate, to have an up-or-down vote on the floor, and demonstrate to the 
American people that, you know what, we heard the message on November 
7, and you know what, we get it. We understand what you were telling 
us. You wanted us to work together, and we are working together to try 
to solve some of our Nation's biggest problems.


We reserve the remainder of our time, and I yield the floor.