---
---

# PROGRAM
## `ee7643a1b41f30539dde4d8c05b07100`
`Mr. REID — 22 January 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, during the next couple of days, until we 
vote on the two cloture matters, if cloture is not invoked on the 
matter relating to Senator Judd Gregg, then that matter, it is my 
understanding, would be withdrawn and we would go to cloture on the 
underlying bill. If that is, of course, passed, it would be just as 
Senator McConnell said--it would eliminate the matters the Finance 
Committee placed on the bill. If it is not invoked, we are right back 
where we started from and would work off the substitute.


Mr. President, I hope Senators would look at and offer whatever 
amendments they want on this matter. There is going to come a time, 
because we have so much other business to do and, besides, there is 
ample opportunity to file amendments on this bill, that I will be 
required to file cloture. It would be great if I didn't have to. We 
could agree on a finite list of amendments, dispose of those 
amendments, and move to final passage of the bill.

Next week sometime it is likely, as I explained to the distinguished 
Republican leader, we are going to have to go to the Iraq resolution or 
resolutions reported out of the Foreign Relations Committee. What the 
Republican leader and I have talked about doing--and we don't know if 
that is doable in the Senate--is to limit the votes that would be on 
that issue, whether we have a couple competing resolutions or one 
resolution. Whatever we do, we will try to work something out to the 
satisfaction of the body.