---
---

# IRAQ
## `ee7e4813aaa56217322500af21987ade`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 24 September 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with 
Representative Jones and my other colleagues in the Congressional Black 
Caucus, in calling for a comprehensive revaluation of our strategies in 
Iraq. I consider the situation in Iraq to be one of Congress' highest 
priorities and there is an urgent need to establish a comprehensive and 
realistic exit strategy. We need to offer hope to the families 
anxiously waiting for news of their loved ones and the men and women 
who risk their lives everyday.

Next month will be the 40th anniversary of one of the largest 
protests against the Vietnam War. Over a hundred thousand people 
marched on Washington that day, and it worries me that the current 
Administration seems to have learned little from history. A similar 
discontent can be seen on the streets of America today, as more and 
more polls demonstrate dwindling public support for this war.

I have always maintained the stance that an adequate case for war was 
never made and that military intervention should only have been used if 
all other routes failed. From the beginning, I offered an alternative 
resolution to war. Although we can never know what the outcome of 
alternatives may have been, we have the chance now to change strategy 
and make decisive steps to developing a lasting solution.

Mr. Speaker, an increase in troop numbers is not the answer. This 
war, commenced in haste and founded on deception, will never provide 
the solutions Iraq needs to establish a strong and lasting democracy. 
We can't secure victory through a war of attrition, and neither can we 
protect our sons and daughters who stand in harm's way in a war that 
was never necessary.

It is true that we cannot abandon the Iraqi people. But more 
productive ways to help them can be found. In the current international 
climate, we cannot engage in meaningful dialogue on the Iraqi situation 
while the occupation continues. I believe we must allow the U.N. to 
play a greater role in the reconstruction of Iraq, advancing human 
rights and justice within the framework of international law. In my 
work in this great body, I consistently seek to protect the United 
States and its people above all else. However, currently there is no 
absolute proof of an imminent threat. In fact our vulnerability to 
international terrorism only rises every day our troops stay in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I am dedicated to providing funding to protect our 
troops, but I refuse to support the failed foreign policies of the Bush 
administration, nor any legislation that will lead to more unnecessary 
deaths. The greatest thing we can do for our brave men and women in the 
Armed Forces is to take them out of harm's way by developing a clear, 
decisive exit strategy.

