---
---

# None
## `ee8af92324d8615f705eaf6d1fd4fc05`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 14 July 2009`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to voice my 
support for the Levin-McCain amendment to strike $1.75 billion added to 
the bill that is on the Senate floor to purchase additional F-22 
aircraft that have not been requested by the Pentagon.

I believe this amendment presents us with an important choice of what 
our national security priorities will be going forward: Will we 
continue to pour billions and billions of dollars into weapon systems 
despite the fact they are not requested and despite cost overruns and 
program delays, or will we make the hard choices necessary to ensure 
that our troops in the field have what they need to fight present and 
future conflicts?

I believe the choice is clear. I am aware this means, for some States 
that are making this plane or have subcontracts--and we have some in 
our own State--that this means jobs. But if we don't move forward to 
what we really need to produce for our troops today, we are never going 
to be able to do the best for our troops and do the best for our 
country.

By the way, as we move forward, that means jobs. I was just up in 
northern


Minnesota visiting a little company that has no contacts with the 
military, no political connections to get contracts, and they had been 
in a very open, transparent process because they make an incredibly 
light backpack that is good for the troops, good for their back, and 
they got the contract. This is a new era, and part of this new era is 
transparency. Part of the new era means we actually will look at what 
our military needs.

No one can dispute that the F-22 possesses unique flying and combat 
capabilities or that it will serve an important role in protecting our 
Nation in the future. The question is not whether we should keep the F-
22 in service, the question is whether we should purchase additional 
planes at the expense of more urgent needs for our troops.

Our Armed Forces are currently fighting in two major conflicts in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. After more than 7 years in Afghanistan and more 
than 6 years in Iraq, the F-22 has not been used in combat. It has not 
flown over those countries. Over the course of these conflicts, we have 
seen the tragic consequences when our troops don't have the equipment 
and resources they need, such as enhanced body armor or vehicles to 
protect them from IEDs. We have seen what happens when we don't give 
our troops what they need. We cannot continue on this course. We must 
focus our defense resources on the personnel, equipment, and systems 
necessary to respond quickly to unconventional and evolving conflicts 
while maintaining the ability to counter conventional foes.

For years, Members on both sides of the aisle have come to the Senate 
Floor to denounce wasteful spending in our defense budget and called on 
the Pentagon to be more responsible in its budgetary and procurement 
policies. Hearing this call, our military leaders have produced a plan 
this year to address wasteful and unnecessary defense spending so we 
can ensure that we are providing our Armed Forces the tools they need 
to keep America safe and strong while also ensuring that taxpayer 
dollars are used responsibly.

We have a major debt in this country. Some of it is because of 
mistakes made in the past. With this economy, there is enough blame to 
go around everywhere. We have a major debt, a major deficit, and we 
have troops who need to get the equipment they deserve. What is the 
answer, put $1.75 billion into some planes the Pentagon says they do 
not need? I don't think that is the answer.

It should be noted that the limit on the number of F-22s that the 
Levin-McCain amendment would restore is supported by the Secretary of 
Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, and both the current and the 
immediate past Presidents of the United States.

I believe Senators Levin and McCain should be commended for their 
dedication to improving our defense posture and budget and for putting 
their own political interests aside--their own jobs, in their own 
States.

Earlier this spring, I was traveling with Senator McCain in Vietnam 
when the Pentagon's proposed reductions, including the F-22s, were 
announced. I discussed with him at length what this would mean, the 
difficult decisions that Members are going to have in their own States. 
But I also talked to him about what the troops need. Right now the 
troops and their commanders are telling us they do not need these 
planes, so it is a testament to the service of Senator McCain to our 
Nation and the work Senator Levin has done for years that they are 
leading the fight to defend the recommendations of our military and 
civilian leaders. I am proud to join them.

This amendment presents us with an opportunity. We can begin making 
decisions based on security interests and fiscal responsibility and cut 
$1.75 billion for additional F-22 aircraft that our military commanders 
say they do not need or we continue on a course that cannot be 
sustained. I urge my colleagues to do what is in this Nation's best 
long-term interest, in the best interests of our troops, and to vote 
for the Levin-McCain amendment.

I yield the floor.