---
---

# LIEUTENANT COLONEL DAVID CANEGATA III AND SERGEANT FLOYD JAMES LAKE
## `ee9090d11c61750c7bd121beb5312bf4`
`Mrs. CHRISTENSEN — 24 January 2007`

---


Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Mr. Speaker, it is with a heavy heart that I rise 
this morning to grieve, along with the residents of my entire district, 
over the loss of two members of the Virgin Islands National Guard who 
were lost when the Black Hawk helicopter they were on was shot down in 
Iraq on Saturday.

We thank God for them, their professionalism, dedication and their 
service, Lieutenant Colonel David Canegata III and Sergeant Floyd James 
Lake. And we thank God for the over 400 soldiers, men and women, who 
have served in this war, including five others who also made the 
ultimate sacrifice. We pray for their families and for the day that we 
will bring all of our soldiers home.

And so, Mr. Speaker, especially now, I am forced to ask on their 
behalf and on behalf of all of the people of the Virgin Islands who 
have sent our loved ones to every war from the Revolutionary to this in 
higher per capita numbers than most States, why it is that some would 
seek to deny us an even limited vote in the Committee of the Whole.

These brave men died in support of extending democracy in the Middle 
East. Every Member of this body should vote to extend democracy here at 
home, to support your colleagues and fellow Americans who happen to 
live in the District and territories, and we should have a unanimous 
vote on H. Res. 78.
