# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `ee9e49310b2c784342295f7da2ce7d4f`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 30 July 2009`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. No, I won't. If I have the time, I might; but 
right now I don't have time.

As we participate in this debate, anyone listening might think that 
Congress is all a bunch of crooks and that American free enterprise is 
sneaking in the back door to make money and that the Congress and the 
Department of Defense are at odds all the time. Well, that's not true. 
Congress is full of good people. The Defense Department secures our 
Nation. But they don't have all of the knowledge, and they don't have 
all of the wisdom. Neither does the administration, neither does the 
Congress. That's why we work together. I think that's one reason that 
the drafters of the Constitution included article I, section 9 to say 
how appropriations should be handled. Now maybe you don't like the way 
the appropriations are handled. People can make that decision in the 
House every 2 years. Article I, section 9 says very simply, ''No Money 
shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations 
made by Law.'' Now what that means is, Congress appropriates the 
people's money. The Constitution--read it thoroughly--does not say that 
Congress can only appropriate money requested by the administration. It 
does say that the administration can only spend money that has been 
appropriated by the Congress. Now if you don't like that, offer a 
constitutional amendment. Amend the Constitution. But somebody's got to 
be responsible, and the Constitution makes Congress responsible.

I said that the Pentagon is not the fountain of all knowledge. I will 
give you a couple of examples of where Congress has insisted, over 
objection on the part of the Pentagon, for certain types of 
appropriations. With the leadership of Jerry Lewis who was the chairman 
of the subcommittee at the time, this subcommittee and the Congress 
insisted that we buy, produce and deploy unmanned aerial vehicles. We 
call it the Predator; and next to the American soldier on the ground, 
al Qaeda fears that Predator more than any other weapon that we have. 
The Pentagon didn't want it. It was not in any budget request. Congress 
insisted, and it has become one of the most effective weapons that we 
have in the war against terror in Iraq and in Afghanistan.

Then on another side of it--not taking out the enemy but saving our 
own people--without any support from the administration, Congress 
created something we refer to as the Bone Marrow Transplant Program. It 
is a lifesaving program that has saved the lives of thousands of 
people. The administration didn't like it. They just thought we were 
wasting our time trying to do it, but we did it anyway. They told us we 
would never develop probably, maybe 50,000 people willing to donate 
their bone marrow to save the life of another human being, but we 
prevailed. Today there are over 7 million people in the registry that 
we created with an earmark that are saving lives every day not only in 
America but in many countries around the world. We have relationships 
with 13 other countries where we exchange patients and exchange bone 
marrow over the oceans to save people's lives, to give them a chance 
for life. That was a congressional earmark.