# SADDAM HUSSEIN AND AL-QAIDA
## `eea2867fccf998a0610e1b6ac60b8648`
`Mr. KYL — 21 April 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. The Joint Forces Command report sheds light on the 
relationship between Saddam Hussein and Ayman al-Zawahiri, Osama bin 
Laden's second in command.

I quote:




 Saddam supported groups either associated directly with al 


 Qaeda (such as the Egyptian Islamic Jihad (EIJ), led at one 


 time by bin Laden's deputy Ayman al-Zawahiri) or that 


 generally shared al Qaeda's stated goals and objectives.


Mr. Hayes notes in his article that Zawahiri's organization was being 
financed by Saddam Hussein at the very time Zawahiri was working almost 
exclusively with bin Laden. In fact, Zawahiri had been working with al-
Qaida from its inception in late 1989. By 1993, Zawahiri, as the leader 
of the EIJ, sought to merge the organization with al-Qaida and, in 
fact, the two terrorist organizations eventually merged in 1998.

The Standard further reported that:




 Captured documents revealed that the regime was willing to 


 co-opt support organizations it knew to be part of al Qaeda 


 as long as that organization's near-term goals supported 


 Saddam's long-term vision.


The more than 600,000 documents likely revealed only a fraction of 
what we will ultimately know of the true relationship between bin 
Laden, the global jihad, and Saddam Hussein. Given this information, it 
is a surprise that many in the mainstream media have concluded only 
that there was no smoking gun linking al-Qaida and Saddam Hussein, thus 
failing to report the key findings in the report to the American 
people.

I am not one who supports relitigating why it was necessary for the 
United States to remove Saddam Hussein from power. But for those who 
find themselves stuck in the past, the Iraqi Perspective Project 
provides yet another substantial body of evidence, adding to that which 
was before the Congress when we authorized the Iraq mission. I want to 
refer to one item in that body of evidence, a letter, dated October 7, 
2002, from CIA Director George Tenet to the Honorable Bob Graham, then 
chairman of the Select Committee on intelligence. Among the things he 
writes in this letter, these are the items that were available to us


before we authorized the invasion of Iraq. He refers to a question by 
Senator Bayh about Iraqi links to al-Qaida. He says Senators could draw 
the following points from unclassified documents. There was, of course, 
much more that was classified. I will quote this brief portion of his 
letter:




 Our understanding of relationship between Iraq and al-


 Qa'ida is evolving and is based on sources of varying 


 reliability. Some of the information we have received comes 


 from detainees, including some of high rank.



 We have solid reporting of senior level contacts between 


 Iraq and al-Qa'ida going back a decade.



 Credible information indicates that Iraq and al-Qa'ida have 


 discussed safe haven and reciprocal non-aggression.



 Since Operation Enduring Freedom, we have solid evidence of 


 the presence in Iraq of al-Qa'ida members, including some 


 that have been in Baghdad.



 We have credible reporting that al-Qa'ida leaders sought 


 contacts in Iraq who could help them acquire WMD 


 capabilities. The reporting also stated that Iraq has 


 provided training to al-Qa'ida members in the areas of 


 poisons and gases and making conventional bombs.



 Iraq's increasing support to extremist Palestinians, 


 coupled with growing indications of a relationship with al-


 Qa'ida, suggest that Baghdad's links to terrorists will 


 increase, even absent US military action.


I commend the Joint Forces Command for its ongoing, exhaustive review 
of this record of intelligence collected in Iraq. I urge all colleagues 
to take the time to educate themselves on its findings. I urge the 
administration to undertake a serious effort to correct the 
misimpressions formed in recent years about this important issue.

There can be no doubt. Saddam Hussein was a threat. He actively 
supported terrorists both in and outside of Iraq, and the world is a 
safer place for him having been removed from power.