# CONGRESSIONAL IMMIGRATION CAUCUS
## `eeab9a1364385e72e11330ebe39e0a4a`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. Thank you, Mr. Murphy. And I wanted to, before getting 
into some of the quotes that the men and women who have been in Walter 
Reed have, over the course of time provided, I did want to continue 
down the time line. And I had left off with the 5-year, $120 million 
contract that was awarded to a former Halliburton official which led to 
the replacement of 300 employees at Walter Reed.



And I wanted to, then, quote from a New York Times article about that 
issue. It said: ''The prospect of privatization at Walter Reed led to a 
large exodus of skilled personnel after the Army reversed results, 
actually changed the results of an audit conducted that government 
employees could do the job more cheaply.''

So they had done a study that showed that things could be done in 
that manner. But they decided to reverse the results and move in the 
direction that we have described. And we have, unfortunately, seen the 
results.

I will move in, now, to some of the quotes. And it is troubling, I 
will tell my colleagues who are watching, to hear some of the 
complaints that were made. And I would remind, again, that in 2005, the 
Republican leadership of this Congress made a decision that they were 
going to not hold the joint hearings on this issue to allow some of 
these things to be brought to the attention, not only of the Congress, 
but of the American people. And it is unfortunate what the result has 
been, that 2 years went by and these things continued, and these quotes 
are the result.

And I am going to refer my colleagues to this chart as I am reading: 
''The mold, mice and rot at Walter Reed's Building 18 compose a 
familiar scenario for many soldiers back from Iraq or Afghanistan. 
Soldiers and veterans at other facilities report bureaucratic disarray 
similar to Walter Reed's. Indifferent, untrained staff, lost paperwork, 
medical appointments that drop from the computers, and long waits for 
consultations.''

And what this describes, unfortunately, is that the problem at Walter 
Reed is not unique to Walter Reed, but it is a systemic problem across 
the country's military and Veterans Affairs facilities. And that is 
very troubling to me.

I have three VA hospitals in western Pennsylvania, one of which is in 
my district. And it is undergoing a $200 million renovation right now. 
And I am hopeful that we will, at that time, have the premiere Veterans 
Affairs highest-quality facility in the entire country.

But the systemic problem facing our military health facilities and 
our Veterans Affairs facilities is shown by some of these quotes. So, 
again, my colleagues want to refer to this chart. From California, this 
says: ''The room was swarming with fruit flies, trash was overflowing, 
and a syringe was lying on the table.'' That is from a facility in 
California.

From a facility in Fort Knox, Kentucky: ''The living conditions were 
the worst I had ever seen for soldiers. Paint peeling, mold, windows 
that didn't work. I went to the hospital chaplain to get them to issue 
blankets and linens. There were no nurses.''

So as troubling as the situation at Walter Reed is for those of us 
who are now delving into the details and learning the unfortunate 
facts, it is even more troubling to think that these are problems that 
are happening all across this country.