---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `eeb5fc112b0fdc94b089b695f1d68d3c`
`Mr. BUNNING — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise today to voice my strong objection 
to the Webb amendment. I voted against this amendment when it was 
offered 2 months ago, and I will vote against it again today.

I will not support this slow-bleed strategy from Iraq. It ties the 
hands of our commanders. I cannot remember a time in history when the 
Congress of the United States has dictated to our commanders on the 
ground how to conduct their mission to this extent.

This is an extremely dangerous amendment. The junior Senator from 
Virginia would like for you to believe it helps our troops and that a 
vote in support of his amendment is a vote to support our troops. 
Wrong. Nothing can be further from the truth.

This amendment would be a nightmare to execute. It says a soldier 
must spend 1 day at home for every day the soldier is deployed. That 
may sound reasonable on its face, but anyone who knows how the military 
plans its missions knows it will be a logistical roadblock for our 
military planners.

The problem is when a unit returns from a deployment, its personnel 
are often reassigned to other units and other assignments. Divisions, 
brigades, battalions, and units don't stay together forever. In a 
military of millions of people, there are a lot of people reassigned 
each day.

This amendment would essentially require the Army and Marine Corps 
staff to keep track of how long each service man or woman has spent in 
Iraq or Afghanistan, how long they have been at home, how long their 
unit was deployed, and how long it was home. This is absurd. This would 
mean pulling soldiers out of units scheduled to deploy if the 
servicemembers did not have enough dwell time.

This breaks up leadership and soldier teams, the formations of which 
are the purpose of the Army and Marine training system. Requiring the 
President to issue a certification to Congress to waive this 
requirement for every individual servicemember who might be affected by 
this is even more absurd.

This amendment takes tools and flexibility away from our commanders 
on the ground, such as General Petraeus. That is why it is being 
offered today.

Commanders make estimates about the forces they need based on 
assumptions about current and future threats. If a commander in Iraq or 
Afghanistan concludes that some event might require the deployment of 
additional forces to his theater, this amendment would restrict the 
units and personnel that could be sent.

The junior Senator from Virginia claims to be concerned for the 
welfare of our troops. Not one Member of this body is opposed to troops 
getting rest after a long deployment. But we need to be equally 
concerned about the dangers our soldiers face when they do not


have the necessary resources and reinforcements available to do their 
mission. This is the true purpose of this amendment. It cripples the 
ability of Secretary Gates, General Petraeus, and our other commanders 
on the ground to accomplish their mission and forces a drawdown of our 
troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I will not support this strategy out of Iraq. It puts troops in 
harm's way, restricting the resources and reserves they need to 
successfully accomplish their mission.

This is not supporting our troops. It is wrong to cloak a troop 
pullout amendment in language that relates to troop rest, but that is 
exactly what this amendment does.

This week I had the pleasure of visiting with two brave Kentuckians 
who recently served in Iraq. They came to me directly to ask me to vote 
against the Webb amendment. These Kentuckians know the sacrifices their 
fellow soldiers and families make. They know and understand the 
importance of rest back home. They know the strains of war. They have 
experienced the heat of Iraq and the tragedy of knowing that some of 
their fellow soldiers never made it home.

But these two Kentuckians also know the intent of this amendment. 
They know why it was offered, and they do not want to tie the hands of 
the military so we are forced to leave Iraq and Afghanistan before the 
mission is completed. That is why they came from Lawrenceburg, KY, and 
Hebron, KY, to ask me to oppose the Webb amendment.

It is not Congress's role to mandate individual soldiers and unit 
deployments. I know the Democrats like to try to micromanage the war, 
but I am not the Commander in Chief and neither are any of my 
colleagues across the aisle. I want to remind everyone in this body of 
this fact.

If you want to truly support our troops, then vote against the Webb 
amendment. It was defeated 2 months ago on the Senate floor, and I can 
only hope it will be defeated again today.

I yield the floor.