---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `eec0f5a163e560642dd4821179024a6e`
`Mr. FOSSELLA — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. FOSSELLA. Madam Chairman, I yield myself 3/1/2/ minutes.

Madam Chairman, most people don't realize while our troops are in 
harm's way in Afghanistan and Iraq, that their family members back 
home, if they want to send them a care package, whatever that care 
package may consist of, from a young child's homework assignment or a 
drawing or an artist's rendering, to just something from home to help 
them in their time of trouble, right now those families must pay for 
it. And on average, it's not unusual for a family to incur about $1,500 
a year in postage to mail those packages.

My amendment would authorize free mailing privileges for family 
members of our servicemen and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. I 
believe the amendment offers tremendous opportunity to increase the 
morale of our troops overseas which, as we are well aware, is a 
necessary component to have a confident and fully prepared military.

I would like to thank, of course, Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member 
Hunter, Personnel Subcommittee chairman, Mr. Snyder, and my good 
friend, John McHugh from New York, for helping to bring this amendment 
to fruition.

I drafted the amendment in response to concerns expressed to me by 
many family members that it was becoming too costly to send those 
regular care packages to their loved ones overseas. I heard story after 
story of families that are already finding it hard to make ends meet 
now having to spend as much as $1,500 a year to mail care packages.

These packages, as I mentioned, bring a touch of home to our 
servicemembers. Pictures, cards, school projects from kids, and I'm 
told there's not good pepperoni in Afghanistan yet, so that comes as 
well. But they also provide the military men and women with basic 
necessities like additional shampoo or powder or perhaps phone cards.

In my district of Staten Island and Brooklyn, residents join together 
and raise money to help military families send these packages overseas. 
I was inspired by the outpouring of support for our servicemen and 
women, particularly in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn, where postal service 
employees raise money to cover the postage for every package sent to 
our troops. In Staten Island residents formed the Staten Island Project 
Home Front, Incorporated, a nonprofit organization dedicated to serving 
our deployed troops and their families by sending thousands of care 
packages. This month alone they sent over 230 packages to our soldiers 
overseas. It was with acts of generosity and patriotism such as these 
that prompted this amendment.

The amendment has also received the support of organizations such as 
the VFW, American Legion, National Association of Uniformed Services. 
And to quote the VFW, ''Letters and packages from home do wonders in 
boosting morale of our men and women serving in harm's way, and high 
morale transfers to combat ready and effectiveness.'' Comments such as 
this I wholeheartedly agree with.

It goes without saying that our servicemen and women are making 
enormous sacrifices fighting this war on


terrorism and defending freedom and liberty. They face great challenges 
under trying circumstances, and often without some necessities such as 
blankets or toothpaste. It falls upon their families back home to get 
them these supplies and to cover the cost of shipping them overseas. 
The amendment will make life a little easier for our soldiers and to 
ease the financial burden on those back home. It's a simple way of 
bringing a touch of home to America's heroes overseas.

In short, what it would do would give each family member a voucher, 
the equivalent of sending a 10-pound package every 2 months, and would 
reduce that cost to those families.

Madam Chairman, I'd also submit for the Record letters in support 
from the VFW and the American Legion.



















 Veterans of Foreign Wars of
























the United States,



















 Washington, DC, May 15, 2007.


 Hon. Vito Fossella,


 House of Representatives,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Representative Fossella: On behalf of the 2.4 million 


 members of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States 


 (VFW) and our Auxiliaries, I am pleased to offer our strong 


 support for the ''Supply Our Soldiers Act of 2007'' (H.R. 


 1439), which provides for free mailing privileges for 


 personal correspondence and parcels sent to members of the 


 Armed Forces serving on active duty in Iraq or Afghanistan.



 As you are aware, letters and packages from home do wonders 


 in boosting the moral of our men and women serving in harms 


 way; and high moral translates to combat readiness and 


 effectiveness. Unfortunately, too many military families are 


 financially strained and cannot absorb the cost of postage to 


 send parcels on a recurring basis. Your initiative goes a 


 long way in eliminating that burden.



 Thank you for taking the lead and introducing this measure. 


 We look forward to working with you to ensure it is enacted.





 Sincerely,























Michael H. Wysong,





























 Director,














National Security and Foreign Affairs.