---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `eecc1e313caad576490910960339f3e5`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 10 July 2009`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Chair, I rise today in support of the 
Fiscal Year 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 
appropriations bill and thank Chairman Edwards and Ranking Member Wamp 
for their work in crafting this legislation.

As someone who represents thousands of military veterans and their 
families, I believe that we have an obligation to provide them with the 
benefits and treatment they deserve for their years of faithful 
service. This legislation accomplishes that by providing $108.9 billion 
for the Department of Veterans Affairs, a $14.5 billion increase over 
Fiscal Year 2009, when not factoring in stimulus or supplemental 
funding.

It is estimated that the VA will treat more than 6.1 million patients 
in 2010, including more than 419,000 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan. 
To meet this demand, the bill provides important funding for mental 
health programs, assistance to homeless veterans, and to improve access 
for veterans in rural areas. The bill also provides vital funding to 
hire additional claims processors to support the Department's continued 
effort to reduce the backlog of benefit claims.

I was also pleased to see that the committee included a provision to 
provide advanced budget authority and funding for fiscal year 2011 for 
medical related accounts. This is a step to ensure that the VA 
healthcare system continues to receive a timely and predictable stream 
of funding without subjecting it to the delays that can arise due to 
the larger annual budget debates.

In addition to the funds provided for our nation's veterans, I also 
applaud the committee's work in providing the necessary funding to meet 
the construction needs of our military. The bill provides $24.6 billion 
for construction, facility modernization, and environmental cleanup. 
Among other construction projects at Ft. Lewis and McChord, I was 
specifically pleased to see funds included in the bill for the 
construction of a Joint Access Road between Ft. Lewis and McChord Air 
Force Base, a project that I specifically requested funding for. These 
funds will help provide a link between the two installations, alleviate 
congestion, and provide a deployment route for the air transportation 
of Army vehicles and equipment.

Again, I thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for their work on this 
legislation and urge my colleagues to support its passage.