# PAUL WELLSTONE MENTAL HEALTH AND ADDICTION EQUITY ACT OF 2007
## `eed77911d4917ac0b434875535816047`
`Mrs. MALONEY of New York — 5 March 2008`

---


Mrs. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of 
this bill. It is long overdue.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1424, the Paul 
Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act.

This bill requires group health plans to cover mental health and 
substance-related disorders the same way they cover medical and 
surgical disorders.

It's time we permanently end discrimination on the basis of illness.

We all know that mental illness is just like any physical illness. 
But we would never think of limiting treatment for cancer, heart 
disease, or diabetes.

People would be outraged.

So, it's amazing to me that some people still see mental illness as 
different and separate from physical illness.

In New York City, since 9/11, we have all seen an increase in the 
number of people seeking mental health services.

No one should feel ashamed for seeking needed healthcare and no one 
should be denied care simply because they cannot afford it.

More than ever, our returning soldiers, our firefighters, and our 
police officers, are suffering from traumatic events and need the 
proper care.

Our soldiers are coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan suffering from 
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and other mental health problems.

Too often, the stigma associated with mental health prevents them 
from seeking the care they so desperately need.

In my own district, our police officers and others are still coping 
with the horrors they witnessed after the tragedy of 9/11.

Thanks to the New York City Police Foundation's program, Project 
COPE, civilian and uniform members of the New York City Police 
Department (NYPD) are able to access mental health services.

Project COPE is an example of an outside group providing mental 
health services because too many people are going without proper 
treatment.

I am proud that today, as a bipartisan body, we will pass legislation 
that will help ease access to treatment and will help millions of 
people and their families battling mental illness.