---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `eed72f365e5bb8e21310e25f92b1601d`
`Mrs. MALONEY — 1 July 2010`

---


Mrs. MALONEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the 
supplemental war funding for Iraq and Afghanistan. After 9 years of 
war, the time has come to bring our troops home.

I would like to thank Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic Leadership 
for bringing this bill to the floor today in a manner that allows clear 
up or down votes on funding for the war and other domestic priorities.

The challenges in Afghanistan are great. As the violence and attacks 
on our troops continue to increase, we still do not have a clear path 
forward or a way to measure progress there.

We cannot afford to sustain an open-ended commitment with no clear 
definition of success.

Reports of corruption abound in Afghanistan, and without a true 
partner in the Karzai government, our prospects for making real 
progress have grown dim.

Our troops have fought with honor and professionalism in the face of 
great challenges, and at great cost--I am truly humbled by their 
service and sacrifice. These brave men and women in uniform deserve our 
full support and commitment to return them home safely to their 
families and loved ones.

I support the president and our military leadership in bringing this 
war to a responsible end. President Obama did not start this war, and I 
was among those who have spoken out in support of allowing for the time 
necessary for a new strategy in Afghanistan to turn the tide.

But after years of war that has strained our military, their 
families, and the country, I am unable to continue to support what 
increasingly looks like an intractable situation in Afghanistan.

That is why I vote against this war funding today.

Despite my opposition to the troubling war funding, the bill does 
include critical domestic funding that I will support. These include 
saving teachers' jobs, Pell Grants, emergency food assistance for 
hungry Americans, and disaster aid to respond to the Gulf oil spill 
catastrophe.

For example, today we are providing $10 billion for an Education Jobs 
Fund to provide additional emergency support to local school districts 
to prevent impending layoffs. Estimates suggest that this fund will 
help keep 140,000 school employees on the job next year.

Moreover, when we invest in education, we save jobs in other sectors 
and spur economic recovery. According to the Economic Policy Institute, 
for every 100,000 education jobs lost, another 30,000 jobs are lost in 
other sectors due to reduced consumer spending and tax revenues.

The list of important programs this bill funds is both extensive and 
impressive: Among other priorities, we are providing $304 million for 
the Gulf Coast oil spill; $50 million for the Emergency Food Assistance 
Program for food purchases to distribute through local emergency food 
providers; $13.377 billion for the payment of benefits to Vietnam 
veterans and their survivors for exposure to Agent Orange, which has 
been linked with Parkinson's disease, ischemic heart disease, and hairy 
cell/B cell leukemia; and $2.93 billion for Haiti.

These are extremely important priorities which are fully paid for and 
which I support.